26 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Bridge to U.P. closed ahead of farmers’ rally||On the eve of their Republic Day tractor parade, farmer unions announced the next phase of their protest. They plan to march to Parliament on foot on February 1, the day when the Union Budget will be presented, Samyukt Kisan Morcha leaders said on Monday. Tuesday’s tractor rallies are expected to attract 1.5 lakh tractors, and will display the extent of support for the farmers’ demands, not just in Punjab and Haryana but from across the country, said Krantikari Kisan Union president Darshan Pal. “Seeing this enthusiasm, especially from the youth, we have decided to announce our next programme now. We will march towards Parliament from different locations on Budget day on February 1,” he said. Balbir Singh Rajewal, who heads a faction of the Bharatiya Kisan Union, said the Sansad March would be undertaken on foot, and would only be the beginning of programmes planned during the upcoming session of Parliament “After we march round the route on Republic Day, no one will go home. Even those who have come from faraway places will not go home until the government listens to our demands and repeals the three laws,” Mr. Rajewal said. Tens of thousands of farmers have been camped on the borders of Delhi for two months, demanding that three new agricultural reform laws be repealed, and that a new law be enacted to guarantee remunerative prices for farm produce. As they enter the capital for the first time on Tuesday, union leaders are determined to keep the protest peaceful but may be stymied by the conditions announced by the Delhi police on Monday evening, and one defiant union which has refused to accept the approved route. The No Objection Certificate issued by the police has 37 conditions, including one on the number of participants. “The organisers shall keep the limit of gathering of participants in the rally to 5,000 persons along with 5,000 tractors,” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/farmers-announce-march-to-parliament-on-budget-day/article33663408.ece
26 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Apex court dismisses govt.’s appeal against panchayat polls||The Supreme Court on Monday dismissed a plea by the Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy government against the Andhra State Election Commission’s decision to conduct gram panchayat elections amid COVID-19 vaccination drive, saying “elections have been held in this country in far more difficult times”. The court said the State government’s reluctance to conduct the elections and the wording of its appeal suggested an “ego battle” between the government and State Election Commissioner N. Ramesh Kumar. “Ego problem between two authorities is leading to lawlessness. We cannot allow lawlessness. How can resolutions be passed against State Election Commissioner N. Ramesh Kumar,” Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul, heading the Bench, asked. The court said it was “highly deplorable” to see State employees’ federations issuing resolutions against the Election Commissioner. “The purpose of the State Election Commission [SEC] is to take over elections... Every time this process is started, some reason is being given to postpone the elections... The SEC is alive to the fact of the vaccination drive, the court should not take over such functions from the Election Commission. There is only a very limited scope of judicial review here,” Justice Kaul, flanked by Justice Hrishikesh Roy on the Bench, told Andhra’s lawyers, senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi and Mahfooz A. Nazki. Senior advocate Ranjit Kumar and K. Parameshwar appeared for the SEC. Kerala spike An intervenor argued how local body elections recently conducted in Kerala had led to a spike in infection. “Nobody can say the spike happened because of this or that... States have conducted elections during COVID-19. Even Kerala did and there is a spike now, but we can’t say polls were the reason... We will not meddle in the affairs of the SEC,” Justice Kaul said. Mr. Rohatgi referred to how Goa recently deferred its local body elections. He said 94,000 police personnel were required for the vaccination drive and to guard the vaccines stored in various places in Andhra. He said the vaccination of front line health workers would be over by February-end. The polls could be held in March. Justice Kaul said, “Whatever the reason, this [conducting elections] is a political process and you are not allowing it to be conducted.” The State government had challenged an order of the A.P. High Court, on January 21, allowing the SEC to conduct local body elections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sc-dismisses-jagan-govts-appeal-against-polls/article33663346.ece
26 January 2021||New Delhi,||India, China troops clashed at Naku La||Indian and Chinese troops clashed at Naku La in north Sikkim last week, in what the Army termed a “minor face-off”, resulting in some minor injuries on both sides, it has been learnt. “It is clarified that there was a minor face-off at Naku La area of north Sikkim on January 20, 2021, and the same was resolved by local commanders as per established protocols,” the Army said in a statement. China’s Foreign Ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian said at a daily briefing in Beijing that he had “no information to offer” on the incident but “would like to stress the Chinese border troops are committed to upholding peace and tranquillity along the border with India”. The clash occurred as the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) troops attempted to intrude into Indian territory, a defence source said. There were some minor injuries on both sides, but the situation was resolved and under control, the source added. There was a clash at Naku La on the night of May 9 last, which also saw injuries on both sides. There was a clash at Pangong Tso also at that time as the nine-month-long stand-off began at several locations across eastern Ladakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/indian-chinese-troops-had-a-minor-face-off-says-army/article33663410.ece
26 January 2021||MANGALURU,||Seven fishermen rescued near Karwar||Coastal Security Police (CSP) personnel rescued seven fishermen who were in distress in the sea near the Karwar Light House on Sunday night. According to a press release from CSP Superintendent of Police R. Chetan, the Coastal Security Police Station in Karwar received a message from the crew of fishing boat Siri Souparnika that water was entering the boat and they need help. The Coastal Security Police Inspector and other staff members rushed to the spot in two boats and rescued the seven fishermen. The rescued fishermen are Harish Manjunath Pujar (35), Hanumanth Lingayya Moger (36), Ramesh Manjunath Moger (28), all from Murdeshwar, Mohan Subba Moger (37) from Alvekodi of Bhatkal, Appayya Shaniyar Moger (30) from Mavinkurve of Bhatkal, Gouradas Kesub (40) from West Bengal and Amiya S. Mallik (42) from Odisha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/seven-fishermen-rescued-near-karwar/article33664019.ece
26 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||SEC reschedules first phase||The State Election Commission (SEC) has rescheduled the first phase of gram panchayat (GP) elections on the ground that the process initiated by it on January 23 has been vitiated. The first phase of elections was to be originally held on February 5. It has been postponed to February 21. Nominations for this phase are to be filed from February 10 to 12. The schedule of the other phases remains intact (dates of polling February 9, 13 and 17 for which nominations have to be filed from January 29 to 31, February 2 to 4 and February 6 to 8 respectively) but they have become the first, second and third phases respectively. In a fresh notification issued on Monday, State Election Commissioner N. Ramesh Kumar said the SEC received information from several quarters that necessary arrangements were not made to receive nominations scheduled from January 25 for the first phase of elections owing to absence of instructions from the government, which filed a special leave petition in the Supreme Court against the High Court order. Poll staff With this, the SEC authorised the District Collectors and the State government to depute its employees and indent the services of Central Government employees as well as members of Central PSUs (CPSUs) as a last resort, for election-related responsibilities as deemed to be appropriate and necessary by the Collectors. Besides, the SEC communicated the notification and its intentions to the Union Cabinet Secretary. Mr. Ramesh Kumar said the Collectors should undertake the work by deploying the required manpower to enable the SEC to conduct elections in exercise of its powers conferred by Articles 243-K read with Article 324 of the Constitution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sec-reschedules-first-phase-of-panchayat-polls/article33663343.ece
26 January 2021||MANGALURU,||Land returned to nature offers facility for research||Book store entrepreneur-turned environmental activist G.N. Ashoka Vardhana from Mangaluru and doctor Krishna Mohan from Moodbidri have not stopped at just giving back 15 acres of forest land to nature. Going a step ahead, they have put up a make-shift accommodation without disturbing the surroundings to facilitate research into flora and fauna on that land, located amid the Western Ghats. The two arranged a gathering of environment enthusiasts on Sunday for the informal dedication of the facility, a container home named Kappe Goodu (a frog’s nest) at Ashoka Vana, the forest land inside Bisile forest range. The facility, bereft of modern amenities, can accommodate up to four persons and will be available for researchers free under their watchful eyes, Mr. Vardhana said. Mr. Vardhana and Dr. Mohan bought the patta land about 14 years ago to prevent its possible diversion to commercial activities, including resorts. Either side of the 23-km Bisile Ghat road, from Bisile in Sakleshpur taluk of Hassan District to Kulkunda near Subrahmanya in Dakshina Kannada district, is flanked by Pushpagiri Wildlife Sanctuary and Bisile Reserve Forest, except this small parcel. Hence, they decided to buy the property and return it to nature. While there were a few attempts for serious research into the flora and fauna present at the location a decade ago, the initiative gained momentum in 2012 when K.V. Gururaj from Srishti Institute of Art, Design and Technology, Bengaluru, and an adjunct scientist of Gubbi Labs, began conducting annual frog camp (Kappe Shibira) during the peak of the monsoon, Mr. Vardhana said. Research enthusiasts stayed at the Bisile community hall, about 4 km away, and visited Ashoka Vana in the dead of the night. Realising the need for continued research, he set up the container home, Mr. Vardhana said. Dr. Gururaj said that the process did not go beyond identifying frog species (about 38) following limited options to continue the research. Frogs too were part of the environment and they tell many things about the surroundings; one needs to know why they were there, what were their contributions. Kappe Goodu helps this mission, he said. Mr. Vardhana said that researchers need not just concentrate on frogs; but there are a variety of flora and fauna in the land. Canopy researcher K.S. Seshadri, Belvai butterfly park founder Sammilan Shetty, wildlife enthusiasts Vikram Gowda and Umesh Goddu and many others shared their thoughts about the initiative.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/land-returned-to-nature-being-used-for-research-on-flora-fauna/article33663855.ece
26 January 2021||New Delhi,||States told to prevent rumours, misinformation about vaccines||Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla has written to all the States to check the spread of misinformation on the two COVID-19 vaccines, and advised them to take penal action against those disseminating wrong and ill-informed news. In a communication dated January 19 to the Chief Secretaries of all the States and the Union Territories, Mr. Bhalla also “strongly emphasised that the National Regulatory Authority in the country has found that the two vaccines — Covishield, manufactured by the Serum Institute of India, and Covaxin, developed and manufactured by Bharat Biotech Ltd. — were safe and immunogenic”. ‘Unwarranted doubts’ The Central government, in close collaboration with the State governments and the Union Territory administrations, had launched the COVID-19 vaccination drive from January 16 across the country with the two vaccines, the communication said. Mr. Bhalla said healthcare workers and frontline workers are being inoculated as per the priority decided by the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for COVID-19 (NEGVAC), and subsequently the priority groups 2 and 3 will be vaccinated. “I would like to strongly emphasise that the National Regulatory Authority in the country has found both the vaccines safe and immunogenic. However, it has been reported that unfounded and misleading rumours are circulating on social and other media, creating doubt about the safety and efficacy of these vaccines. Such kind of rumour mongering, particularly by vested interests, can create unwarranted doubts among people at large, and there is, therefore, a need to check all such kinds of unfounded scare-mongering relating to the safety and immunogenicity of the vaccines,” the letter said. Urging the States and the UTs to put in place an appropriate mechanism to check the spread of such ill-informed rumours, Mr. Bhalla asked the Chief Secretaries to direct all the authorities concerned under the State governments to take appropriate necessary measures to counter the spread of all such kind of “false information” as well as promptly disseminate factual messages.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/states-told-to-prevent-rumours-misinformation-about-vaccines/article33663414.ece
26 January 2021||GUNTUR,||‘Post-vaccinal ADEM caused death of worker’||The death of 42-year-old Accredited Social Health Activist B. Vijayalakshmi at the Government General Hospital is due to post-vaccinal Acute Disseminated Encephalomyelitis (ADEM), which is a rare event (1 in 1.5 lakh cases), according to a senior doctor. ADEM is an autoimmune condition that is associated with post-vaccine complications, said a senior neurologist. “A patient is affected by ADEM when the antibodies in the vaccine react with antigens in the brain. The condition is associated with 20 to 30% of mortality, but it is completely curable,’’ said the doctor. A histopathological (post-mortem) examination would provide the conclusive analysis and the case study would prove valuable insights into the Adverse Events Followed by Immunisation (AEFI). The AEFI committee has been formed to handle post-vaccinal complications and 16 AEFI cases have been reported so far in the district. Minister assures kin Meanwhile, Minister for Health Alla Kali Krishna Das (Nani) accompanied by senior health officials visited the house of Ms. Vijayalakshmi on Monday and assured her family of all support from the government. The Minister also promised that her family would be paid Rs. 50 lakh as compensation from the government. Ms. Vijayalakshmi was active during the pandemic and her husband works as a Village Revenue Assistant. Hours after being administered a vaccine on January 20, she complained of fever, epigastric pain and was shifted to NRI General Hospital. On January 22, she was shifted to the Government General Hospital and was reported to be in a semi-conscious condition. Even though doctors tried to resuscitate her using a ventilator, she died in the early hours of January 24. The AEFI committee met on the GGH premises and reviewed the case. District Collector I. Samuel Ananda Kumar promised that the family would get a job and a house site.  ADEM is an autoimmune condition that is associated with post-vaccine complications.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/post-vaccinal-adem-caused-death-of-worker/article33663418.ece
26 January 2021||CHENNAI,||‘T.N. will have 23,000 more polling booths’||Tamil Nadu will have 23,000 more polling booths during the 2021 Assembly election in compliance with the COVID-19 safety protocol, Governor Banwarilal Purohit said on Monday. Speaking at the 11th National Voters’ Day function here, he said given the need to maintain physical distance, polling booths would be limited to 1,000 voters each, as against the norm of 1,500 electors. This would result in the creation of 23,000 booths, in addition to the existing 67,775 booths. Mr. Purohit said the first-level checking of EVMs/VVPATs would be completed by January 31. On account of the pandemic, digital and electronic media were being used to the maximum to create awareness among electors, he added. “Let me remind you that you now have the power to choose your representatives. Do exercise this power responsibly, use this opportunity and exercise your franchise every time in the most informed and ethical manner, free of any inducement and going beyond narrow considerations. I would like to tell all eligible citizens to register themselves as voters and vote with pride at every election,” the Governor said. Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam; State Election Commissioner R. Palaniswamy; Chief Electoral Officer Satyabrata Sahoo; Additional Chief Electoral Officer V. Rajaraman; Chennai Collector R. Seethalakshmi; and District Election Officer and Greater Chennai Corporation Commissioner G. Prakash were present. “Let me remind you that you now have the power to choose your representatives. Do exercise this power responsibly, use this opportunity and exercise your franchise every time in the most informed and ethical manner, free of any inducement and going beyond narrow considerations. I would like to tell all eligible citizens to register themselves as voters and vote with pride at every election,” the Governor said. Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam; State Election Commissioner R. Palaniswamy; Chief Electoral Officer Satyabrata Sahoo; Additional Chief Electoral Officer V. Rajaraman; Chennai Collector R. Seethalakshmi; and District Election Officer and Greater Chennai Corporation Commissioner G. Prakash were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tn-will-have-23000-more-polling-booths/article33663493.ece
26 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||10th round of talks soon||At the 9th round of Corps Commanders talks on Sunday, India and China had a “candid and in-depth exchange of views” on disengagement along the Line of Actual Control, and both sides agreed to hold the 10th round at an early date to “jointly” advance de-escalation. “The two sides agreed to push for an early disengagement of the frontline troops,” a joint statement said. The two sides agreed to continue their “effective efforts” in ensuring the restraint of the frontline troops, stabilise and control the situation along the LAC in the Western sector of the China-India border.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/10th-round-of-talks-soon/article33663405.ece
26 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Govt. is committed to farmers’ welfare: Kovind||Amid on-going tensions with China on the Ladakh border, President Ram Nath Kovind on Monday asserted that Indian armed forces are “adequately mobilised in a well-coordinated manner to thwart any attempt to undermine national security” while reiterating the country’s commitment to peace. Addressing the nation on the eve of the 72nd Republic Day, President Kovind mentioned that the “path of reforms gives rise to initial misapprehensions” but the government is committed to welfare of the farmers. “The path of reform at the initial stages may cause misapprehensions but the government is singularly devoted to the farmers’ welfare,” Mr. Kovind said as the protests by the farmer unions demanding repeal of the three laws has continued for over two months outside Delhi. Noting that India is now referred to as the “pharmacy of the world”, the President urged citizens to come forward to get vaccinated following all the protocols. Calling 2020 as a year of learning, he said India stands today confident after a year of ‘unforeseen ordeal’, converted adversity into an opportunity with the Prime Minister’s call to Atma Nirbhar campaign and foiled expansionist attempts at the borders. The President paid tribute to the 20 Indian soldiers who laid down their lives at Galwan valley last June during a face-off with the Chinese troops. “Though we reiterate our commitment to peace, our defence forces — Army, Air Force and Navy — are adequately mobilised in a well-coordinated move to thwart any attempt to undermine our security. Our national interest will be protected at all costs,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-committed-to-welfare-of-farmers/article33663411.ece
26 January 2021||New Delhi,||Padma Vibhushan for SPB, Shinzo Abe||Late singer and music composer S.P. Balasubrahmanyam, former Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe and Islamic scholar Maulana Wahiduddin Khan were on Monday conferred the Padma Vibhushan, the second-highest civilian award in India. Singer K.S. Chithra, former Lok Sabha Speaker Sumitra Mahajan, and Nripendra Misra, former Principal Secretary to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, are among the 10 recipients of the Padma Bhushan. Galwan heroes Colonel B. Santhosh Babu, Commanding Officer of 16 Bihar, who lost his life along with 19 others in the clash with China’s People’s Liberation Army in the Galwan Valley in June last, was posthumously awarded the Maha Vir Chakra, the country’s second-highest wartime gallantry award. Five other personnel were awarded the Vir Chakra — four of them posthumously. The Vir Chakra is the third-highest wartime gallantry award. More than 900 police and central armed police force personnel received medals, including 207 gallantry medals, on the eve of Republic Day. Assistant sub-inspector Mohan Lal of the Central Reserve Police Force, who was killed in the suicide attack on a CRPF convoy at Pulwama on February 14, 2019, was awarded the President’s Police Medal for Gallantry posthumously.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/spb-shinzo-abe-get-padma-vibhushan/article33663415.ece
26 January 2021||HUBBALLI,||Chief Minister apprised of pending payment under CRF: Shettar||Minister for Large and Medium Industries Jagadish Shettar has said that the issue of pending bills of contractors for the works executed under the Central Road Fund (CRF) has been brought to the notice of the Chief Minister and also Union Minister Nitin Gadkari. Speaking to presspersons after performing bhoomi puja for the new Balamandir on Ghantikeri Balamandir premises in Hubballi on Monday, he said that he was aware of the problems caused due to delay in payment of bills for works completed under CRF. “The State government will take short-term loans for payment of pending bills to the contractors for the works taken up under the CRF,” he said and added that the officials and contractors have been asked to complete the works without creating problems for the general public. Admitting that there has been delay in the implementation of the works under Smart City and CRF, he said that directions had been issued to the officials to expedite the works. Regarding the protest against the new farm laws, the Minister said that there was a need for new thinking in the farm sector and the farmers were being given access to open market. The farm laws would be implemented on an experimental basis and if there were any adverse impact, the Union government is committed to withdrawing them, he said. Mr. Shettar said that he appeals to farmers to examine the farm laws without coming under the influence of anyone. He expressed the hope that farmers will get better prices outside APMCs for their produce. Ready in 11 months The new building of the Balamandir for girls being constructed at a cost of Rs. 3.25 crore will be ready within 11 months. With the grants provided by the Directorate of Women and Child Development, a building with sophisticated facilities will be constructed, he said. “There will be two blocks and each block will accommodate 50 girls. The building will be completed within the stipulated time and dedicated to the public,” he said. MLA Prasad Abbayya and various officials were present. Subsequently, the Minister laid the foundation stone for the construction of a compound wall for the government high school at Vishweshwar Nagar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/chief-minister-apprised-of-pending-payment-under-crf-shettar/article33663548.ece
26 January 2021||MYSURU,||Police stop farmers from going to Bengaluru rally||Several farmers proceeding to Bengaluru to participate in the rally on Republic Day were stopped in Mysuru district on Monday. Superintendent of Police C.B. Ryshyant said tractors proceeding to Bengaluru will not be allowed. “We are stopping them and sending them back,” he said, as farmers complained that tractors from K.R. Nagar, Hunsur, and Periyapatna had been detained. Meanwhile, farmers gathered at Maharaja’s College grounds and staged a road blockade on the adjoining Krishnaraja Boulevard for over three hours on Monday. They later marched to Ramaswamy Circle and formed a human chain to protest against efforts to stymie their rally. However, Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha (KRRS) leader Badagalapura Nagendra said the farmers will go to Bengaluru on tractors “come what may”. Addressing farmers on Monday evening, he said talks between the Bengaluru police and farmers’ leaders were under way and expressed hope that at least 500 tractors will be allowed to participate in the rally. “What is the reason for them to stop tractors to proceed to Bengaluru when they are allowed in Delhi. Don’t be unreasonable. Treat us with respect and let the tractors pass,” Mr. Nagendra said. He alleged the police and officials from the Transport Depart1ment had gone to villages and threatened farmers that they will book cases against them if they took their tractors for the rally. “The farmers were threatened that their tractors would be seized and cases will be booked against them,” Mr. Nagendra said. Farmers were scheduled to gather at Maharaja’s College grounds on Monday before proceeding to Bengaluru. En route, they were supposed to stop overnight at Byrapatna on the outskirts of Bengaluru. Earlier, Minister for Co-operation S.T. Somashekar said the government is not against the demonstration by the farmers. “It will be difficult to run tractors on the roads of Bengaluru. If they are allowed, traffic movement has to be stopped. I am sure farmers will not like to inconvenience the public,” he said. The permission had been granted for tractors to hold a rally in Delhi because the road network there is different. “If thousands of tractors are allowed to descend on the roads of Bengaluru, everything else will have to stop,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/police-stop-farmers-from-going-to-bengaluru-rally/article33663661.ece
26 January 2021||January 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Finishing touches||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/finishing-touches/article33663547.ece
26 January 2021||CHENNAI,||Insurance racket unearthed||The Cyber Crime Wing of the Central Crime Branch (CCB) on Monday arrested six persons for allegedly issuing fake motor insurance policies. The police seized fake insurance certificates from them. Commissioner of Police Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal told the media that the arrests were made following a complaint from United India Insurance. “We have seized laptops from them. The preliminary investigation revealed that they had cheated around 300 people. Further investigation is on,” said Mr. Aggarwal. During the COVID-19 pandemic, insurance companies encouraged vehicle owners to use online portal for buying motor insurance for all vehicles, except those in the commercial category. The gang used the portal to generate fake policies for commercial vehicles at a lower rate applicable only to light motor vehicles (LMVs) and two-wheelers. The special team found the involvement of a gang led by Mariappan of Tirunelveli with Sumathi, who edited fake policies and provided bank account numbers in connivance with Anand, an insurance agent. Cash, gold seized The team arrested Mariappan in Tirunelveli and seized some documents and cellphones from him. The team also seized Rs. 9.54 lakh, gold of 133 sovereigns worth Rs. 53 lakh, an SUV and original registered documents in Mariappan’s name for an estimated value of Rs. 3 crore. The names of the other accused persons were given as Ansar Ali from Keeranur, Pudukkottai district, and his associates Jainallaudeen and Senthilkumar, and Sumathi, an associate of Mariappan who shared the bank account for receiving the cheated money. Two laptops and a printer were seized from Sumathi. Insurance agent Anand was arrested. The Commissioner said that vehicle owners buying insurance policy online should verify the genuineness and validity of such documents with the respective corporate office and their website to ensure that the policies were genuine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/motor-insurance-racket-unearthed/article33663884.ece
26 January 2021||January 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Colours of democracy!||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/colours-of-democracy/article33664165.ece
26 January 2021||New Delhi,||States told to prevent rumours on vaccines||Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla has written to all States to check the spread of misinformation on the two COVID-19 vaccines, and advised them to take penal action against those disseminating wrong and ill-informed news. In a communication dated January 19 to the Chief Secretaries of all States and Union Territories, Mr. Bhalla also “strongly emphasised that the National Regulatory Authority in the country has found that the two vaccines — Covishield and Covaxin, — were safe and immunogenic.” “However, it has been reported that unfounded and misleading rumours are circulating on social and other media, creating doubt about the safety and efficacy of these vaccines. Such rumour mongering, particularly by vested interests, can create unwarranted doubts among people,” the letter said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/states-told-to-prevent-rumours-on-vaccines/article33664166.ece
26 January 2021||New Delhi,||‘WhatsApp’s policy a cause for concern’||The Centre on Monday told the Delhi High Court that the differential treatment by WhatsApp of Indian users compared with their European counterparts with respect to its privacy policy was a “cause for concern for the government”. Additional Solicitor-General Chetan Sharma said: “While the privacy policy offered by WhatsApp to its European users specifically prohibits sharing of any information with Facebook, this provision is not present in the privacy policy offered to Indian citizens who form a substantial part of WhatsApp’s user base.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/whatsapps-policy-a-cause-for-concern/article33664051.ece
26 January 2021||MANGALURU,||Buy fallow land, return it to nature||Environmental activist G.N. Ashoka Vardhana has suggested to environment enthusiasts that they could buy fallow agriculture land adjacent to forests and return them to nature. “That way we can contribute our bit to environment that has been the victim of human interference,” he said. Except retaining a kutcha road formed by erstwhile land owners and setting up the container house for research, he has not interfered with the original characteristics of the land, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/buy-fallow-land-return-it-to-nature/article33664015.ece
26 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||NCP leaders called to Delhi for talks||The factional conflict in the State unit of the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) over the troubling question of ceding the coveted Pala Assembly seat to Jose K. Mani of the Kerala Congress (M) is likely to soon play out in the national stage. NCP national president Sharad Pawar and general secretary in charge of Kerala Praful Patel have summoned the opposing factions to New Delhi for talks on February 1. Incumbent Pala legislator Mani C. Kappan privately conferred with Mr. Pawar in Mumbai. He later told reporters that Mr. Pawar was averse to relinquishing any of the four Assembly seats held by the NCP in Kerala. Mr. Pawar’s position was consistent with that of NCP State president T.P. Peethambaran. Mr. Kappan said he had told Mr. Pawar that Transport Minister A.K. Saseendran, who was lobbying NCP leaders for accommodation with Jose K. Mani, had called a meeting of his loyalists at his official residence in mid-January. Mr. Saseendran had allegedly kept the NCP State leadership in the dark about the consultation. Kappan’s claim Most State and district office-bearers had stayed away from the “group meeting.” Mr. Saseendran was in the “minority” in the NCP. The rank and file answered to the State president, he said. Mr. Kappan said Mr. Saseendran seemed to give the impression that his overtures to Jose K. Mani had the CPI(M) leadership’s approval. However, no CPI(M) leader had asked him to vacate the Pala seat in favour of Jose K. Mani. Mr. Pawar is also likely to make his position clear on the Pala seat question to CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury and his counterpart in the CPI D. Raja soon. Mr. Saseendran’s supporters reportedly felt that an accommodation with Jose K. Mani would bring rich political dividends for the NCP. The Rajya Sabha seat vacated by Mr. Mani would enhance the NCP’s national profile further. However, some others were loath to persuade Mr. Kappan to relinquish the seat he had wrested from the KC(M) in the bypoll in 2019.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ncp-leaders-called-to-delhi-for-talks/article33663586.ece
26 January 2021||Bengaluru,||Tractor rally may be a symbolic one||The farmers’ Republic Day tractor parade may only be a symbolic gesture in Bengaluru. The city police, who initially refused to allow any tractors into the city, held talks with farmer unions for several hours till Monday late night. While the farmer unions appealed for allowing a few hundred tractors to hold the parade, the city police are yet to confirm their decision.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tractor-rally-may-be-a-symbolic-one/article33663833.ece
26 January 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi may be heading towards herd immunity||The fifth round of seropre-valence survey has indicated that Delhi’s population could be heading towards attaining herd immunity against COVID-19, sources said. The survey has found that in one district, 50-60% of the sample population have developed antibodies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/delhi-may-be-heading-towards-herd-immunity/article33663912.ece
26 January 2021||Bengaluru,||State first to vaccinate over 2L health workers||Karnataka has vaccinated over two lakh healthcare workers against COVID-19 making it the first State in the country to cross the milestone. As on Monday evening, as many as 2.3 lakh healthcare workers had been vaccinated in the State over the last 10 days. A total of 19,50,183 healthcare workers have been vaccinated across the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-first-to-vaccinate-over-2l-health-workers/article33663663.ece
26 January 2021||Bengaluru,||Fourth portfolio reshuffle in four days||The allocation of Cabinet portfolios is turning out to be a game of musical chairs, with Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Monday effecting a reshuffle of portfolios for the fourth time in four days — and for the second on the same day — to quell dissatisfaction among a section of Ministers. But this failed to resolve the problem completely as a fresh round of dissatisfaction emerged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/fourth-portfolio-reshuffle-in-four-days/article33663664.ece
26 January 2021||KALLAKURICHI,||Stalin making tall claims to come to power: CM||Chief Minister and AIADMK co-coordinator Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Monday accused DMK president M.K. Stalin of trying to hoodwink the people of Tamil Nadu by making tall claims so as to come to power.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/stalin-making-tall-claims-to-come-to-power-cm/article33663427.ece
26 January 2021||CHENNAI,||Reduced syllabus for Class 9 announced||The School Education Depar-tment on Monday released the reduced syllabus for Class 9 in State board schools. There has been no deletion of entire chapters in most subjects. Teachers said the exercise was done with the concepts required for Class 10 kept in mind.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/reduced-syllabus-for-class-9-announced/article33663444.ece
26 January 2021||CHENNAI,||Kamal promises salaries for panchayat members||Makkal Needhi Maiam foun-der Kamal Haasan on Monday promised salaries for panch-ayat presidents and councill-ors in rural local bodies and pooled budgets for all three tiers of panchayats.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kamal-promises-salaries-for-panchayat-members/article33663445.ece
26 January 2021||Kolkata,||Kolkata nearby||Two days after she took offence to raising of ‘Jai Shri Ram’ slogans, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday raised similar slogans to target the BJP and Left parties. “ Hare Krishna Hare Ram bidayi jao BJP baam [Hare Krishna, Hare Ram, go away BJP and Left],” she said at a rally at Purshura in Hooghly district. The BJP has alleged that Ms. Banerjee is against slogans relating to Lord Ram. She referred to the incident at Victoria Memorial in Kolkata on Saturday where she refused to address the gathering in the presence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi after ‘Jai Shri Ram’ slogans were raised. “They were trying to tease me at Victoria Memorial in the presence of the Prime Minister... I would have saluted you if you had hailed Subhas Bose... But if you try and put me at gun- point, I know how to retaliate,” she stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kolkata-nearby/article33663428.ece
26 January 2021||LUCKNOW,||Final hearing against U.P. conversion law on Feb. 2||The Allahabad High Court has deferred the final hearing of the writ petition filed against the Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance, 2020 to February 2 citing the petition moved by the Yogi Adityanath government to transfer the case to the Supreme Court. The High Court is hearing a bunch of PILs challenging the validity of the ordinance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/final-hearing-against-up-conversion-law-on-feb-2/article33663914.ece
26 January 2021||KALABURAGI,||Union to transfer profits to milk producers||Kalaburagi, Bidar and Yadgir Co-operative Milk Producers Societies Union Limited has decided to transfer Rs. 2 crore profit to milk producers by increasing milk price, union president R.K. Patil has said. Mr. Patil said that the union had decided to increase the price for cow milk by Rs. 2 a litre and buffalo milk by Rs. 3 a litre. The new rates will come into effect on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/union-to-transfer-profits-to-milk-producers/article33663550.ece
26 January 2021||Hubballi,||Lack of coordination upsets Minister||Minister for Large and Medium Industries and Dharwad district in-charge Jagadish Shettar has expressed displeasure over the lack of coordination among officials of different government agencies during execution of various works. The Minister inspected road work taken up under Central Road Fund (CRF) from Gadag Road to Sarvodaya Circle in Hubballi on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/lack-of-coordination-upsets-minister/article33663552.ece
26 January 2021||Mumbai,||Mumbai nearby||Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari came under fire from farmers protesting at Azad Maidan in Mumbai to repeal three farm laws, after he left for Goa instead of receiving the delegation that was to meet him on Monday. NCP chief Sharad Pawar said Mr. Koshyari had time to meet Kanagna Ranaut but not farmers. Farmers’ leaders said that the Governor’s action came as no surprise since he was a BJP leader in the past and remains an RSS pracharak even today. The Governor’s office claimed it had informed the organisers on January 24 that Mr. Koshyari would be leaving for Goa.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mumbai-nearby/article33664041.ece
26 January 2021||MANGALURU,||Pilot of ‘Hallige Nadeyiri Jilladhikarigale’ in Udupi||Revenue Minister R. Ashok on Monday announced that the State government’s ambitious scheme, “Hallige Nadeyiri Jilladhikarigale” (Visit villages, Deputy Commissioners), will be launched on a pilot basis in Udupi district on January 30.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/pilot-of-hallige-nadeyiri-jilladhikarigale-in-udupi/article33664021.ece
26 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Accelerated vaccine drive soon||The Union government is all set to accelerate the first phase of COVID-19 vaccination drive by roping in additional vaccination sites and allowing walk-in vaccinations for those from the same group who have been registered in the Co-WIN system. Speaking to The Hindu on Monday, V.K. Paul, Member (Health), NITI Aayog, and head of the National Expert Group on Vaccination (NEGVAC), said the next few weeks would see the government working at speeding up the coverage for the priority group. The government rolled out the world’s largest COVID-19 vaccination drive on January 16 and has so far vaccinated nearly two million healthcare workers. While the government aims to inoculate three crore health care and frontline workers for free in the first round of the vaccination drive, there have been concerns that this is around half of the ideal target and that the drive needs to be accelerated to cover the targeted number by July. Optimal use “India has enough vaccine stock to cover its target population for the first phase. We will be escalating the speed of coverage by bringing in additional vaccination sites and also allowing walk-in vaccination. And while zero wastage of vaccination is often not possible, the government is also working on ensuring optimal use of all resources and maximising safe coverage of its population in the fastest possible time,” Dr. Paul said. On the procurement and distribution of vaccines in India, K. Vijay Raghavan, Principal Scientific Adviser to the Government of India, said the government was in regular contact with companies — the Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech — on stockpiles, procurement and distribution. “Procurement and distribution have to be integrated and this is done by the Co-WIN IT structure. This structure is robust and is constantly being monitored and improved. How much to procure depends on stocks, distribution pipelines and use. All three are increasing at speed,” he said. Professor Vijay Raghavan added that the snapshots of early days would not necessarily be representative of the rapid rate of rise. “Vaccines — during the pandemic in particular — are made for use, and this is happening to the fullest. India is among the largest vaccine users and manufacturers in the world. Our responsibilities nationally and internationally are immense and are being monitored by NEGVAC. The Health Ministry and the External Affairs Ministry are also in step to make sure that India meets our international responsibilities keeping in mind that all of us need to be safe for each of us to be safe,” he said. “So far they have managed to keep up with the demand. If a vial of vaccine is opened it has to be used within four hours otherwise it remains in the cold chain setting and have a specified expiry period. We are trying to reduce wastage of vaccine to minimal,” he explained. 348 ‘adverse events’ India has so far vaccinated 1.9 million healthcare workers 10 days into its vaccination drive. On Monday, 3,34,679 were vaccinated in 7,171 sessions. There were no deaths reported on Monday in those who had been recently vaccinated, with the tally so far remaining at 8. However, there were 348 reports on Adverse Events Following Immunisation (AEFI), a sharp jump from the 10 reported on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/accelerated-vaccine-drive-soon/article33663371.ece
26 January 2021||HYDERABAD,||CCMB chief bats for mass vaccination to contain COVID||Strongly endorsing the phased vaccination introduced by the Central government across the country to control the COVID-19 pandemic, Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB) director Rakesh Mishra has advised those on the list to take it without hesitation because there is no doubt about the “safety” aspect. “There is no reason not to take the vaccine. This is the right time to get inoculated when the virus is seemingly weak and spreading less. We should hit when the enemy is weak or we will be giving a chance to the virus to resurrect itself in more dangerous forms. Other than the social vaccine of physical distancing, hand hygiene and face masks, a vaccine is the game changer, even if its potency is 50%,” asserted Dr. Mishra, in an exclusive interaction. Emergency provisions Vaccine approvals have been based on emergency provisions given in light of the prevailing situation. It means they are for emergency usage and not general usage as has been made clear by the regulatory authorities. Even though we still do not know how long it will help, a vaccine in the current situation can control the disease, he said. The director expressed disappointment over the kind of debate on the vaccination programme and pointed out that the successful completion of phase one and phase two has shown the vaccines to be safe and to be triggering immune response. “Phase three trials will be about protection and no one knows how long it will be. I am only going by the data in public domain and even the Serum Institute vaccine study is mostly based on European population which is okay in a pandemic situation,” he said. ‘Turning the tables’ Dr. Mishra affirmed that even a few months of protection against the coronavirus post vaccination will “turn the tables”. “We can keep a check on the virus spread if more people are vaccinated and any new outbreak can be controlled with effective tracing and testing,” he said. The government, regulatory authorities and vaccine-making firms have put their reputations at stake with hundreds of crores of rupees being spent to inoculate the population, he observed, adding that there is no need to have any apprehensions since the adverse reactions, so far, are minimal considering more than 10 lakh have been vaccinated until now. As per protocol Moreover, the vaccines being offered have been made on established technology platforms, so even those with co-morbidities and the aged should take the vaccine when it is offered as per the government established protocols. “Any person should take the vaccine as per system as there is nothing to worry. Caution has been advised for certain sections as an additional safety valve. It is not good to take any chance based on previous infection or any antibody test as the person could become the platform for further transmission and perhaps even potent mutations later,” he explained.  Other than the social vaccine of physical distancing, hand hygiene and face masks, a vaccine is the game changer, even if its potency is 50%. Rakesh Mishra, Director, Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ccmb-chief-bats-for-mass-vaccination/article33663665.ece
26 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Galwan hero gets Maha Vir Chakra honour||Colonel B. Santhosh Babu, Commanding Officer of 16 Bihar regiment deployed in Galwan during Operation Snow Leopard, who lost his life along with 19 others in the violent clash with Chinese troops in June, has been posthumously selected for the Maha Vir Chakra (MVC), the second highest wartime gallantry award of India. Five other personnel deployed there have been named for the Vir Chakra (VrC), which is the third highest wartime gallantry award. Vir Chakras Hav. Tejinder Singh from 2 Medium Regiment will get the Vir Chakra along with four others posthumously — Nb Sub Nuduram Soren and Nk Deepak Singh from 16 Bihar, Hav. K Palani from 81 Field regiment and Sep. Gurtej Singh from 3 Punjab. In addition, the President has announced one Kirti Chakra posthumously and three Shaurya Chakras, one of which is posthumous. The President has approved award of 455 gallantry and other defence decorations to the armed forces personnel and others on the eve of the 72nd Republic Day celebrations, the Defence Ministry said. They are one MVC, five Kirti Chakras, five VrC, seven Shaurya Chakras, 134 Sena Medal, one Nao Sena Medal, four Vayu Sena Medal (all gallantry), 30 Param Vishisht Seva Medal (PVSM), four Uttam Yudh Seva Medal (UYSM), 51 Ati Vishisht Seva Medal (AVSM), 11 Yudh Seva Medal (YSM), 46 Sena Medal (Devotion to Duty), including for two COVID-19 warriors, eight Nao Sena Medal (devotion to duty), 14 Vayu Sena Medal (devotion to duty) and 134 Vishisht Seva Medal (VSM), including 13 COVID-19 warriors. In the first combat fatalities in 45 years on the Line of Actual Control, 20 soldiers were killed after they were attacked by Chinese troops in the Galwan valley on the night of June 15. The incident occurred amid a “de-escalation” process in Galwan after a month-long stand-off between troops at several points along the LAC in Ladakh and Sikkim. The People’s Liberation Army (PLA) has so far not revealed the number of casualties on its side. Col. Babu was tasked with establishing an observation post in face of the enemy and he successfully executed the task, organising and briefing his troops about the situation with a sound plan, the citation said. Stiff resistance “While holding the position, his column faced stiff resistance from the adversary who attacked using lethal and sharp weapons along with heavy stone pelting from adjoining heights. Undaunted by the violent and aggressive action by overwhelming strength of enemy soldiers, the officer in true spirit of service before self, continued to resist the enemy’s attempt to pushback Indian troops,” it stated. Col. Babu led from the front with absolute command and control despite hostile conditions to deter the vicious enemy attack at his position, the citation read, adding: “In the skirmish that broke out and ensuing hand to hand combat with enemy soldiers, he valiantly resisted the enemy attack till his last breath, inspiring and motivating his troops to hold ground.” For conspicuous bravery in the face of enemy, exemplary leadership, astute professionalism and supreme sacrifice in the line of duty, Col. Babu was selected for the MVC posthumously. War memorial The names of the 20 personnel have also been inscribed at the National War Memorial in the national capital. The Army said that while three soldiers including Col. Babu were killed in the clash, 17, who were critically injured at the location and exposed to sub-zero temperatures in the high-altitude terrain, died later.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/galwan-hero-gets-maha-vir-chakra-honour/article33663356.ece
26 January 2021||Mumbai,||Koshyari comes under fire from protesting farmers||Maharashtra governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari came under fire from thousands of farmers protesting at Azad Maidan in Mumbai to repeal three farm laws, after he left for Goa instead of receiving the delegation that was to meet him on Monday. NCP chief Sharad Pawar said Mr. Koshyari has time to meet Kanagna Ranaut but not farmers. Farmers’ leaders said that the Governor’s action of holidaying in Goa instead of meeting farmers came as no surprise since he was a BJP leader in the past and remains an RSS pracharak even today. The Governor’s office issued a statement late Monday, claiming it had informed the organisers of the farmers’ march on January 24 that Mr. Koshyari will be leaving for Goa to address the legislature session there which had to started on Monday. The Governor will be in Mumbai on January 26 and attend the flag-hoisting ceremony on Republic Day at Shivaji Park. “Maharashtra never witnessed a Governor like the present one ... This Governor has time to meet Ms. Ranaut but not time to meet farmers,” said Mr. Pawar  All India Kisan Sabha president Ashok Dhawale said holidaying in Goa instead of meeting farmers displays Mr. Koshyari’s priorities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/koshyari-comes-under-fire-from-protesting-farmers/article33663354.ece
26 January 2021||Bengaluru,||‘Dead’ woman starts breathing at burial ground||Those who had gathered at the Khuddus Saheb cemetery on Friday had the shock of their life when a 40-year-old woman, who was declared dead, started breathing minutes before the last rites. The woman, Yasmin Banu, was rushed to a private hospital where doctors performed a surgery for a blood clot in her brain on Sunday. She is now recovering. It later emerged that the incident could have been the result of ‘miscommunication’. Patient fainted at home Syed Moinuddin, her brother, told The Hindu that Ms. Banu fainted in her house on January 17. He rushed her to a reputed government hospital, where the doctor, after examination, suggested immediate surgery, but refused to treat her citing lack of beds. Based on the advice of the ambulance driver, Mr. Moinuddin shifted her to a private hospital on January 18. He arranged for Rs. 1.3 lakh as advance payment for the treatment. But, before the surgery, the hospital told the family to take the patient home stating that she was brain dead. Mr. Moinuddin took the ‘body’ to the cemetery for the last rites in an ambulance. At the burial ground, minutes before her ‘body’ was shifted for the last rites, Ms. Banu started breathing. Shocked, people checked her pulse, which was normal. She was given water to drink before being rushed her to a private hospital where Dr. Mohsin Pasha examined her and started treatment. Discharge summary Dr. Pasha stated that no where in the discharge summary has the hospital mentioned that she was dead. “It's very unfortunate that she had to go through this. I think it’s a case of miscommunication. The hospital might have told the family that she is brain dead and to take her home as there is nothing much that could have been done. But the family members thought that she was dead and took her straight to the burial ground. As soon as the patient was admitted, she was given treatment. She has recovered,” he said. Despite the experience, the family is relieved. “It's a miracle that my sister is alive. Even if there was a delay of a few minutes, she would have been buried alive,” Mr. Moinuddin said. ‘Tough to raise money’ Mr. Moinuddin, who works as a labourer with an interior designer, is now running from pillar to post to arrange money for the surgery. “Since the lockdown, it has been very difficult to eke out a living. I have already borrowed Rs. 1.3 lakh to pay the hospital for the treatment of Yasmin,” he said. City-based social activist Kaleemullah said that the incident shows how hospitals are playing with people’s lives. “Had Yasmin been treated at the first hospital, she would not have gone through all this,” he said.  It's very unfortunate that she had to go through this. I think it’s a case of miscommunication. The hospital might have told the family that she is brain dead and to take her home as there is nothing much that could have been done. But the family members thought that she was dead and took her straight to the burial ground Dr. Mohsin Pasha   It's a miracle that my sister is alive. Even if there was a delay of a few minutes, she would have been buried alive...Since the lockdown, it has been very difficult to eke out a living. I have already borrowed Rs. 1.3 lakh to pay the hospital for the treatment of Yasmin Syed Moinuddin, brother of the patient   Had Yasmin been treated at the first hospital, she would not have gone through all this Kaleemullah, social activist||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/dead-woman-starts-breathing-at-burial-ground/article33663332.ece
26 January 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi may be heading towards herd immunity||The outcome of the fifth round of the seroprevalence survey has indicated that Delhi’s population could be heading towards attaining herd immunity against COVID-19 infection, sources said on Monday. The survey has found that in one district, 50-60% of the sample population have developed antibodies, they said. For the survey, which ended a few days ago, samples of over 25,000 people from various districts across the city were collected, the sources said. Delhi’s population is over two crore, spread across 11 districts. Experts say herd immunity is said to have been developed in a population segment if 50-60% of those are found to have the presence of antibodies in a seroprevalence survey. Herd immunity implies that in any set of people in a community, after becoming affected by the virus, a lot many of them become immune to it on account of antibodies developed in response to it. And, hence, such people become a protective layer between the infected person and the unaffected people, thereby breaking the chain of viral transmission. This is the fifth such exercise that was conducted here, but the Delhi government has not given any official version on it. The first seroprevalence survey, done from June 27 to July 10 by the Delhi government in association with the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), had used 21,387 samples and found that around 23% of the people surveyed had an exposure to the novel coronavirus. The exercise in August showed 29.1% people had antibodies. Also, 79 of the 257 people who had tested positive and then recovered, and were part of the survey done in the first week of August, however, did not have the antibodies, according to a report released later. In the survey in September and October, the figures stood at 25.1% and 25.5%. The exercises were undertaken for a comprehensive assessment of the situation and to formulate strategies based on its findings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/delhi-may-be-heading-towards-herd-immunity/article33663369.ece
26 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Billionaires’ wealth rose 35% during lockdown: Oxfam||Indian billionaires increased their wealth by 35% to Rs. 3 trillion during the lockdown, ranking them behind their counterparts in U.S., China, Germany, Russia and France, says the “Inequality Virus Report” brought out by Oxfam, a non-profit organisation. The rise in fortunes of the top 100 billionaires is enough to give every one of the 138 million poorest Indian people a cheque for Rs. 94,045, the report released on the opening day of the World Economic Forum in Davos said. The wealth of just the top 11 billionaires during the pandemic could easily sustain the MGNREGS or the Health Ministry for the next 10 years, it said underscoring the deepening inequalities due to COVID-19 where the wealthiest escaped the worst impact of the pandemic while the poor faced joblessness, starvation and death. Mukesh Ambani, who emerged as the richest man in India and Asia, earned Rs. 90 crore an hour during the pandemic when around 24% of the people in the country were earning under Rs. 3,000 a month during the lockdown. The increase in his wealth alone could keep 40 crore informal workers out of poverty for at least five months, the report said. It recommended reintroducing the wealth tax and effecting a one-time COVID-19 cess of 4% on taxable income of over Rs. 10 lakh to help the economy recover from the lockdown. According to its estimate, a wealth tax on the nation’s 954 richest families could raise the equivalent of 1% of the GDP. Poor access According to the report, only 6% of the poorest 20% have access to non-shared sources of improved sanitation, compared to 93.4 % of the top 20%. As much as 59.6 % of India’s population lived in a room or less, which meant that protocols necessary to prevent the spread of COVID-19 cannot be followed. Till October, 32 crore students were hit by closure of schools, of whom 84 % resided in rural areas and 70 %attended government schools. Oxfam India’s survey across five States said that close to 40% of teachers in government schools feared that a third of the students would not return once schools reopened. It was estimated that out- of-school rates would double in a year. Dalits, Adivasis and Muslims were likely to see a higher dropout rate. Girls were also most vulnerable as they were at risk of early and forced marriage, violence and early pregnancies, it noted. Unemployment of women rose by 15% from a pre-lockdown level of 18%, which could result in a loss of India’s GDP of about 8% or Rs. 15 trillion. Women who were employed before the lockdown were also 23.5 percentage points less likely to be re-employed compared to men in the post lockdown phase.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/billionaires-wealth-rose-35-during-lockdown-oxfam/article33663376.ece
26 January 2021||LUCKNOW,||Final hearing against U.P. conversion law on Feb. 2||The Allahabad High Court has deferred the final hearing of the writ petition filed against the Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance, 2020 to February 2 citing the petition moved by the Yogi Adityanath-led government to transfer the case to the Supreme Court. On Monday, the State government said an application to transfer the petition was pending in the top court. Reports said the SC declined to accept the plea and said it would not intervene in the case. A Bench of Chief Justice Govind Mathur and Justice Siddhartha Varma listed the matter for February 2. The court is hearing a bunch of PILs challenging the constitutional validity of the ordinance. On January 18, the HC had allowed a writ petition by the Association for Advocacy and Legal Initiatives (AALI) through its managing trustee Tulika Srivastava to intervene in the writ proceedings. In its petition, the AALI argued that the ordinance outlaws conversion for the sole purpose of marriage and infantalises the legitimate choice made by an adult person who voluntarily and of their own free will and volition chooses to opt for a way of life by converting their religion to that of their partner in marriage. It is settled law that in the garb of protecting women, laws cannot deny them autonomy and right to take decisions as adults, the AALI said, stressing that the State cannot promote gender stereotypes. Original writ In the original writ, petitioner Saurabh Kumar of Prayagraj prayed for the ordinance to be declared ultra vires saying it was “both morally and constitutionally repugnant”. Following this, the HC had issued a notice to the government and sought its response. The State government in a counter affidavit filed through Special Secretary, Home Department, defended the ordinance and said it was safeguarding community interests.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/final-hearing-against-up-conversion-law-on-feb-2/article33663381.ece
26 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Will not seek anticipatory bail, says former Kerala CM||Former Chief Minister and Congress leader Oommen Chandy has said he will not scurry for legal cover from the CBI probe slapped on him by the Pinarayi Vijayan government. He will neither move for anticipatory bail nor seek legal recourse. The government had authorised the CBI to probe the nearly six-year-old “sexual favours for official patronage” case against a galaxy of Congress leaders, including Mr. Chandy, last week. The news of the impending CBI probe broke on Sunday days after the Congress had tapped Mr. Chandy to lead the party’s State unit into the electoral fray. Mr. Chandy said an innate fear of defeat had prompted the government to resurrect disproven claims of sexual exploitation against the Congress leadership. The administration had sacrificed truth at the altar of political spite. The brazen attempt to cast a slur on the Congress leadership would backfire on the government. Other respondents All India Congress Committee (AICC) general secretary K.C. Venugopal, former Ministers Adoor Prakash and A.P. Anil Kumar, Hiby Eden, MP, and A.P. Abdullakutty, currently a top functionary of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), are the other respondents in the case. The case is centred on a set of charges raised by a woman accused of defrauding scores of citizens of their life savings by persuading them to invest in a non-existent solar power generation scheme. The alleged victim had cultivated several influential ruling front politicians then to get the previous government’s imprimatur for her commercial foray into Kerala’s then-nascent non-conventional and renewable energy sector. Judicial panel The case had taken a turn when the judicial commission appointed by Mr. Chandy to probe the fraud concluded that seeking sexual favours for official patronage is tantamount to illegal gratification under the Prevention of Corruption Act. The commission also recommended a criminal inquiry against those who had allegedly taken sexual advantage of the woman. The Left Democratic Front government embraced the recommendations. Consequently, the Crime Branch registered a case of rape against the Congress leaders in 2018. The government had now transferred the cases to the CBI at the behest of the alleged victim. The United Democratic Front (UDF) has rallied round to support Mr. Chandy. Several leaders have slammed the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/will-not-seek-anticipatory-bail-says-former-kerala-cm/article33663340.ece
26 January 2021||P SridharKOTHAGUDEM,||Adivasis’ rights being snatched away in Telangana, says Brinda||The CPI (M) Polit Bureau member and former MP Brinda Karat said Adivasi farmers are facing a situation where the law they have won through historic struggle is being snatched away and destroyed in Telangana. The ongoing farmers’ struggles against the Centre’s new farm laws and those demanding implementation of the Scheduled Tribes and Other Traditional Forest Dwellers (Recognition of Forest Rights) Act, 2006, (FRA) have a common interest to protect lands, livelihoods and dignity of farmers, she said. She was addressing a huge gathering of tribal farmers and other traditional forest dwellers at a rally-cum-public meeting christened ‘Praja Garjana’ organised by the CPI (M) district committee in this coal town on Monday. The streets of the district headquarters town of the predominantly tribal-populated district turned into a sea of humanity with scores of tribal people swarming the main thoroughfares to assert their traditional rights over forest lands and community resources. Amid slogans “Jai Kisan Sangarsh” and “Van Kanoon Lagoo Karo (Implement the FRA)”, Ms Karat, accompanied by the former MP Midiam Babu Rao, the CPI (M) State secretary Tammineni Veerabhadram and other senior leaders, participated in the rally. Addressing a huge public meeting, Ms Karat charged the Narendra Modi regime with bringing new farm laws without consulting farmers to snatch away their rights, for corporate profiteering. “These pro-corproate laws will adversely damage food security and the welfare of crores of farmers,” she said . Agitated over these “black laws”, hordes of farmers have been continuing their protest at Delhi’s borders leaving their families back home for more than two months braving the extreme cold conditions. “On January 26 in 1950 the Constitution of India came into effect and this Republic Day the national capital will see Karshak Parade,” she said, adding that around one lakh tractors of farmers will be headed to the national capital to stage “Kisan Parade” against the farm laws to save the farm sector and protect their livelihoods. The BJP government at the Centre launched an onslaught on the rights of Adivasis as enshrined in the Fifth Schedule of the Constitution to allow “corporate loot” of the forest resources heedless of the mounting agrarian distress, which led to more than four lakh farmers’ suicides in the last two decades, she charged. In Telangana, out of over two lakh claims of tribal farmers and other forest dwellers under the FRA, only half have been accepted, that is also less than the legal right they are entitled for, Ms Karat pointed out. “In the name of increasing the forest cover to 33% under the Haritha Haram, the TRS regime has embarked on a plan to plant 230 crore trees at a cost of Rs. 3,000 crore. By planting trees on the chests of Adivasis, this government is taking away their lands and destroying the rights of Adivasis,” she alleged. Allowing opencast mining projects and doling out licences to the projects of big corporate firms by the persons at the helm showed their hypocrisy and doublespeak. “What happened to the promise made by Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao before last elections to resolve the issues of podu cultivators?” she asked, taking a dig at the TRS dispensation over the alleged “unfulfilled promises.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/adivasis-rights-being-snatched-away-in-telangana-says-brinda/article33664056.ece
26 January 2021||New Delhi,||Respond to Kerala plea, court tells CBI||The Supreme Court on Monday directed the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to respond to an appeal filed by the Kerala government to quash an FIR registered by the premier investigative agency into alleged irregularities in the implementation of the LIFE Mission housing project. Appearing before a Bench led by Justice Ashok Bhushan, senior advocate K.V. Vishwanathan and advocate G. Prakash, for Kerala, accused the Centre through the CBI of “circumventing federal structure to get a foothold in the State’s domain”. CM is in charge: counsel “Life Mission is a housing project to tide over the unimaginable loss caused by flood. Houses are given free of cost. How does the CBI enter here? The Chief Minister is heading the project,” Mr. Vishwanathan submitted. The senior advocate argued that the CBI could investigate a State issue only if there was a High Court order to do so or if consent had been received under Section 6 of the Delhi Special Police Establishment Act or if a Central statute applied. The Bench issued a limited notice to the CBI on the question of quashing the FIR. It listed the case after four weeks. The High Court had earlier rejected the State government’s plea to quash the CBI’s FIR. The High Court had observed that the facts revealed “a high-profile intellectual fraud played” to avoid audit by the Comptroller and Auditor General and get kickbacks and gratification. The State had contended that the charges in the FIR were “wholly malicious, baseless”, and fuelled by “ulterior political motives”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/respond-to-kerala-plea-court-tells-cbi/article33663347.ece
26 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Respect right to vote, exercise franchise sincerely: President||President Ram Nath Kovind on Monday said it was important to respect the right to vote, which was something that people around the world had struggled to achieve. Addressing the Election Commission’s National Voters Day celebrations virtually, Mr. Kovind said he would like to remind that “we should always respect the valuable right to vote. The right to vote is not a simple right; people around the world have struggled a lot for this”, a Rashtrapati Bhavan statement said. Mr. Kovind said it was the responsibility of all, particularly the youth, to exercise their franchise with sincerity. Earlier in the event, Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad handed out elector photo identity cards and the digital version, e-EPICs, to a handful of newly enrolled electors. The digital voter ID cards would be available for download by all electors with valid EPIC numbers from February 1, while new electors who applied for EPICs in November and December would be able to download their digital cards from Monday. Mr. Prasad said ordinary Indians knew that they could unseat any political party or leader, no matter how popular they were. Awards given During the event, where Chief Election Commissioner Sunil Arora and Election Commissioners Sushil Chandra and Rajiv Kumar spoke, the Election Commission gave out awards to officials and civil society members for their contribution towards holding elections. Among those awarded were the late Binod Kumar, an IPS officer who died from COVID-19, which he contracted during his review of election preparations in Purnea district in Bihar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/respect-right-to-vote-exercise-franchise-sincerely-president/article33663373.ece
26 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC gives two weeks to govt. on Rajoana’s plea||The Centre told the Supreme Court on Monday that a decision on the mercy plea of Balwant Singh Rajoana, who has been in jail for 26 years for the assassination of former Punjab Chief Minister Beant Singh, would have “some repercussions”. Appearing before a Bench led by Chief Justice of India Sharad A. Bobde, Solicitor General Tushar Mehta sought three weeks’ time. “Why three weeks? What are you doing? You said you will take a decision before Republic Day...” Chief Justice Bobde asked Mr. Mehta. “What are they doing? It has been 26 years of jail for him [Balwant Singh]... Your Lordships have given them [the government] a long rope,” said advocate Mukul Rohatgi for Balwant Singh. “He is in jail for 26 years, yes, but he is in jail for the assassination of a former Chief Minister of Punjab,” Mr. Mehta responded. The Solicitor General said the government was “examining the petition”. “Any decision, either way, may have some repercussions now,” said Mr. Mehta. The court finally gave the government two weeks. Balwant Singh’s plea for Presidential mercy has been stuck in limbo despite the government having decided in 2019 to spare his life in commemoration of the 550th birth anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev Ji. In a petition, Balwant Singh said his pleas to the government about the fate of the mercy petition, which was filed in 2012, were met with silence. The court said the law was settled that once government decided to recommend a Presidential pardon for a condemned man, the pendency of appeals in the SC of his co-accused could not delay the process initiated under Article 72 (Presidential pardon) of the Constitution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-gives-two-weeks-to-govt-on-rajoanas-plea/article33663360.ece
26 January 2021||New Delhi,||‘WhatsApp treating Indian users differently is cause for concern’||The Centre on Monday told the Delhi High Court that the differential treatment by WhatsApp of Indian users compared with their European counterparts with respect to its privacy policy was a “cause for concern for the government”. Additional Solicitor-General Chetan Sharma said: “While the privacy policy offered by WhatsApp to its European users specifically prohibits sharing of any information with Facebook, this provision is not present in the privacy policy offered to Indian citizens who form a very substantial part of WhatsApp’s user base.” “The government is also concerned in the way Indian users have been subjected to these changes rather unilaterally. By not providing the Indian users the ability to opt out of this data being shared with other Facebook companies, WhatsApp prima facie seems to be treating Indian users with an all-or-nothing approach,” he added. This, Mr. Sharma said, may infringe on Indian users’ interest in relation to information privacy and information security. The submissions were made before Justice Sanjeev Sachdeva during the hearing of a petition by a lawyer against the new privacy policy of WhatsApp, which is owned by Facebook. Mr. Sharma said though the issue is between two private parties — WhatsApp and its users — “the scope and expanse of WhatsApp makes it a germane ground that reasonable and cogent policies are put in place, which is being done by the Personal Data Protection Bill”. He added, “The Personal Data Protection Bill is being discussed by the Joint Committee of Parliament.” Taking note of the fact that the matter is being looked into at the highest level, Justice Sachdeva adjourned the hearing in the case to March 1. In the meantime, Justice Sachdeva declined to grant the plea of petitioner Manohar Lal to issue notice to WhatsApp. During the hearing, WhatsApp counsel submitted that a communication had been received from the government seeking certain information on the privacy policy on January 18. Mr. Lal, in his petition, claimed that WhatsApp’s new privacy policy violated the Right to Privacy guaranteed under the Constitution. The new policy “virtually gives a 360-degree profile into a person’s online activity” without there being any supervision of the government, it said. The plea had said WhatsApp changed its privacy policy in an arbitrary manner and even made it compulsory for its users to accept its terms and conditions, failing which the accounts and services would be terminated after February 8, 2021 for the respective users. Later, WhatsApp clarified that “No one will have their account suspended or deleted on February 8 and we’ll be moving back our business plans until after May”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/whatsapp-treating-indian-users-differently-is-cause-for-concern/article33663412.ece
26 January 2021||New Delhi,||Over 900 police, CAPF staff will get medals||More than 900 police and Central Armed Police Force (CAPF) personnel were selected for medals, including 207 gallantry medals, on the eve of Republic Day. Assistant sub-inspector Mohan Lal of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), who was killed in the suicide bombing attack in Pulwama on February 14, 2019, was selected for the President’s Police Medal for Gallantry (PPMG) posthumously. Mr. Lal, who was on picket duty, tried to flag down the car and fired at the speeding vehicle but was killed along with 39 personnel on the bus when the bomb exploded. Sixty-eight other CRPF personnel get bravery medals. Banua Oraon, assistant sub-inspector from the Jharkhand police, will receive the PPMG posthumously. None of the 21 Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) personnel who faced Chinese aggression and thwarted incursion in various sectors in eastern Ladakh last year in April-May was nominated for medals this year. The ITBP recommended gallantry medals for the 21 personnel in August last year. “The ITBP troops not only effectively used shields to protect themselves but also responded fiercely to PLA advancing troops and brought the situation under control. With highest order of professional skills, ITBP troops fought shoulder-to-shoulder and also brought the injured Indian Army troops to the rear,” a statement issued by the ITBP on August 14, 2020, had said. A senior government official said the ITBP’s proposal was still under consideration. Deepam Seth, Inspector-General, Northwest Frontier headquarters, and ITBP Deputy Commandant Rajesh Kumar Luthra will receive the President’s Police Medal for Distinguished Service (PPMDS). Mr. Seth is part of the Corps Commander delegation that is engaged in talks with China’s People’s Liberation Army. Mr. Luthra has been selected for displaying courage and presence of mind to defuse a face-off with Chinese troops at Ladakh in July 2019, while Assistant Commandant Anurag Kumar Singh will get a gallantry medal for the second time for undertaking a counter-terrorist operation in Jammu and Kashmir in 2017. The Border Security Force won 20 Police Medals for Gallantry (PMG), five PPMDS and 46 Police Medals for Meritorious Service (PMMS). As many as 16 personnel of the Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) will also be decorated. The Jammu and Kashmir Police will get 71 medals, including 52 for gallantry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/over-900-police-capf-staff-will-get-medals/article33663366.ece
26 January 2021||Mumbai,||No senior Sena leader at farmers’ support meet||Even as top leaders of all political parties supported thousands of peasants who had gathered in Mumbai to protest against the three farm laws, no senior leader from the ruling Shiv Sena was present on the dais on Monday. When asked about the Sena’s absence, State Environment Minister Aaditya Thackeray said his party stood with farmers. “Sharad Pawar is leading the agitation on behalf of the MVA,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-senior-sena-leader-at-farmers-support-meet/article33663352.ece
26 January 2021||HYDERABAD,||47.4% vaccine coverage on day 6 in Telangana||COVID-19 vaccination was initiated at private hospitals on Monday with only 47.4% of the targeted beneficiaries coming forward to get the jab. Telangana Health department had planned to vaccinate 42,915 healthcare workers (HCWs), including some from the government facilities, on the day but less than half — 20,359 — could be immunised. During the five days of vaccination held from January 16 to 22, a total of 1,10,251 out of the targeted 1,71,599 HCWs in the Health department were inoculated. A mop-up round for those who missed out on the shot was held in a few districts on Monday. In Hyderabad, 731 government health staff were administered the vaccine. The number of HCWs from private health centres who turned up till late afternoon was low. By end of day, 47.4% had received the jab. Corporate hospital managements actively sent out photos of prominent doctors and heads of hospitals who received the vaccine. Five cases of minor Adverse Event Following Immunisation were reported. Director of Public Health G. Srinivasa Rao said the condition of those five was stable. Usually, the vaccination drive is held on Monday, Tuesday, Thursday and Friday. However, it will not be held on January 26 on account of Republic Day. The drive for private HCWs will resume from Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/474-vaccine-coverage/article33663666.ece
26 January 2021||Bengaluru,||Fourth portfolio reshuffle in four days in Karnataka||The allocation of Cabinet portfolios is turning out to be a game of musical chairs, with Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Monday effecting a reshuffle of portfolios for the fourth time in four days — and for the second on the same day — to quell dissatisfaction among a section of Ministers. But this failed to resolve the problem completely as a fresh round of dissatisfaction emerged among a few Ministers. The highlight of Monday’s reshuffle was Health and Family Welfare Minister K. Sudhakar getting back the Medical Education portfolio, which had been taken away from him in the first round of reshuffle. With this, both the Health and Medical Education portfolios continue to be monitored by a common authority. Mr. Sudhakar had personally pleaded with the Chief Minister to allow him to keep both portfolios for better coordination of COVID-19 measures and to support the vaccination drive. But this meant the Medical Education Department was taken away from J.C. Madhuswamy, who was already upset over being stripped of the Minor Irrigation and Law portfolios. Though he was given Tourism and Ecology and Environment in phase one of the reshuffle early on Monday, he was said to be very upset over being “ignored” though he played a crucial role in defending the government in the legislature sessions. In fact, supporters of Mr. Madhuswamy even threatened that he may not wish to continue in the Cabinet if he continued to be “ignored”. Following these developments, the Chief Minister, later in the day, effected one more round of reshuffle in which the portfolios of newly inducted Minister C.P. Yogeshwar and Mr. Madhuswamy were swapped. Now, Mr. Madhuswamy has again been given Minor Irrigation while Mr. Yogeshwar has to be content with Tourism and Environment and Ecology. Singh unhappy In a cascading effect, this has made B.S. Anand Singh, who earlier held the Tourism and Ecology portfolios, unhappy. To placate Mr. Singh, the Chief Minister has given him Infrastructure Development and Haj and Wakf. But that does not appear to have had any impact as Mr. Singh is said to be hurt. The manner in which the portfolios have been changed back and forth in a short span of time is being seen as an indication of Mr. Yediyurappa losing his grip on the Cabinet. “Perhaps this is the first time the Chief Minister has effected a reshuffle so many times within a short span,” a senior BJP leader observed. Mr. Yediyurappa’s supporters, however, have maintained that it is an indication of the veteran leader’s “accommodative” attitude in a challenging political atmosphere.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/fourth-portfolio-reshuffle-in-four-days-in-karnataka/article33663333.ece
26 January 2021||January 26 2021 00:00 IST,||India, China troops clashed at Naku La||Responding to questions on the Naku La incident, Mr. Zhao said, “We urge the Indian side to work in the same direction with us and refrain from actions that might escalate or complicate the situation along the border. We hope both will take proper actions to manage the differences and take concrete actions to safeguard the peace and stability along the border.” The Communist Party-run Global Times quoted Chinese military sources as saying that reports of injuries on both sides were “fake”. “There is no record of this incident in the Chinese People's Liberation Army (PLA) front line patrol logs,” the newspaper said. “In recent days, the focus of the military’s top leaders on both sides has been the ninth round of corps commander-level talks, not a new border clash… There have been minor frictions between the front line forces of the two countries, but if there had been friction involving casualties, it is impossible for them not to be recorded in the Chinese patrol logs.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-china-troops-had-a-minor-face-off-says-army/article33663344.ece
26 January 2021||January 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Bridge to U.P. closed ahead of farmers’ rally||The police conditions also said movement of the procession must not stop, must not take more than two-thirds of the carriageway, and must flow in one direction only. The prescribed time period is from noon to 5 p.m. only. Non-compliance to these conditions could result in termination of the NOC, it warned. Union leaders however, said, the participant limit is not practical. “Throughout the negotiations with the police, it was made clear that there is no way the numbers can be limited. There is no way to tell farmers that you are the chosen 5,000 or even 10,000,” said Mahila Kisan Adhikaar Manch leader Kavitha Kuruganti, who is part of the team coordinating the parades. An SKM spokesperson estimated that apart from 1.5 lakh tractors, 50,000 other vehicles are expected to participate. Up to five farmers are being allowed to ride on each tractor. “There is no limit of vehicles nor time bounds of this march,” claimed an SKM statement. In addition, one Punjab union, the Kisan Mazdoor Sangarsh Committee (KMSC), intends to go a step further in defying the police norms by heading for Delhi’s Outer Ring Road, instead of the approved routes. The group, which had previously defied directions to lift a rail roko in Punjab, said it would not take any decisions “under pressure from the government”. SKM leaders sent multiple delegations to the KMSC leadership through the day, pleading with them to change their plans for the sake of the whole movement. “The farmers protest has been peaceful so far, and will continue to be peaceful. If there is any disturbance, it will not come from our side. We are determined to win, so we must stay peaceful,” emphasised Mr. Rajewal, noting that farmers have already handed over to the police several “troublemakers”, including a youth found with a revolver at Tikri. 2,500 volunteers More than 2,500 volunteers will be on hand along the parade routes, to ensure traffic control, medical support and provide food and water to those who need it. A number of tableaux, floats and banners have been prepared, depicting the culture of different States and the demands of the farmers as well as celebrating women farmers and farmers movements of the past. Although political party flags are not being permitted, some floats seemed to carry sharp socio-political messages, speaking up for oppressed Dalits, or critiquing the policies of the World Bank and IMF. “Never before in history have the people of this Republic been part of a parade of this nature on the Republic Day. Through this parade, we have to tell the country and the world about our plight,” said an SKM statement appealing to protesting farmers to follow strict instructions. “Remember that our aim is not to conquer Delhi, but to win over the hearts of the people of this country.”  (With inputs from   Vikas Vasudeva in Chandigarh and Saurabh Trivedi in Delhi)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/farmers-announce-march-to-parliament/article33663348.ece
26 January 2021||January 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Govt. is committed to farmers’ welfare: Kovind||“The path of reform at the initial stages may cause misapprehensions but the government is singularly devoted to the farmers’ welfare,” Mr. Kovind said as the protests by the farmer unions demanding repeal of the three laws has continued for over two months outside Delhi. Noting that India is now referred to as the “pharmacy of the world”, given its ability to supply medicines to the world, the President urged citizens to come forward to get vaccinated following all the protocols. Calling 2020 as a year of learning, he said India stands today confident after a year of ‘unforeseen ordeal’, converted adversity into an opportunity with the Prime Minister’s call to Atmanirbhar campaign and foiled expansionist attempts at the borders. The President paid tribute to the 20 Indian soldiers who laid down their lives at Galwan valley in Ladakh last June during a face-off with the Chinese troops. Lauding the farmers for ensuring food security by making India self-reliant in foodgrains and dairy products even after facing several natural adversity and the COVID-19, he said a grateful nation is committed to farmers’ welfare. “Adversity often plays the role of a great teacher. It makes us stronger and more confident. With that confidence, India has taken great strides in several sectors. Economic reforms have continued apace and have been supplemented by long-pending reforms in the areas of labour and agriculture through legislation. The path to reform at the initial stages may cause misapprehensions. However, it is beyond doubt that the Government remains singularly devoted to farmers’ welfare,” he said. Talking about economic resilience, the President said the country has not only seen unprecendent GST collections recently but also emerged as a favourite destination for foreign investments. He said with easy loans and innovative ideas, the government has encouraged micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) to unleash its ‘animal spirits’ as well as provide employment. Thanking doctors, nurses, sanitation and others frontline workers and people who led India’s fight against COVID, Mr. Kovind also thanked scientists for developing vaccines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/govt-is-committed-to-welfare-of-farmers/article33663349.ece
26 January 2021||January 26 2021 00:00 IST,||States told to prevent rumours on vaccines||Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla has written to all the States and the Union Territories to check the spread of misinformation on the two COVID-19 vaccines, and advised them to take penal action against those disseminating wrong and ill-informed news. In a communication dated January 19 to the Chief Secretaries of all the States and the Union Territories, Mr. Bhalla also “strongly emphasised that the National Regulatory Authority in the country has found that the two vaccines — Covishield and Covaxin — were safe and immunogenic.” The Centre, in close collaboration with the State governments and the Union Territory administrations, had launched the COVID-19 vaccination drive from January 16 across the country with the two vaccines, the communication said. Mr. Bhalla said healthcare workers and frontline workers are being inoculated as per the priority decided by the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for COVID-19 (NEGVAC), and subsequently the priority groups 2 and 3 will be vaccinated. ‘Creating doubts’ “I would like to strongly emphasise that the National Regulatory Authority in the country has found both the vaccines safe and immunogenic.However, it has been reported that unfounded and misleading rumours are circulating on social and other media, creating doubt about the safety and efficacy of these vaccines. Such rumour mongering, particularly by vested interests, can create unwarranted doubts among people,” the letter said. “There is, therefore, a need to check all such kinds of unfounded scare-mongering relating to the safety and immunogenicity of the vaccines,” the letter said. Urging the States and the UTs to put in place an appropriate mechanism to check the spread of such ill-informed rumours, Mr. Bhalla asked the Chief Secretaries to direct all the authorities concerned under the State governments to take appropriate measures to counter the spread of all such kind of “false information” about COVID-19 vaccines as well as promptly disseminate factual messages. “Penal action may be taken against the person/s or organisation/s who is/ are found to have indulged in such activities, under the relevant provisions of the Disaster Management Act. 2005 and the Indian Penal Code, 1860,” the letter said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/states-told-to-prevent-rumours-about-vaccines/article33663350.ece
26 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Women farmers will be hit hard by farm laws’||Over 400 Indian women’s rights activists, women’s organisations and academics have penned an open letter to the government expressing their solidarity with protesting women farmers and underscoring that they are central to the farmers’ agitation as they are likely to be hit the hardest. On January 12, Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde suggested in the Supreme Court that the elderly and women return home. “Women farmers have been firmly in the leadership of this struggle, just as much as they lead the process of agriculture itself and bear the burden of crushing farm debts, suicides, shrinking incomes, and ecological disaster... [even though] women farmers are neither allowed to own land nor acknowledged for their labour in law or policy,” stated the letter. It was endorsed by over 400 signatories including Annie Raja, Ayesha Kidwai, Kamla Bhasin, Shabnam Hashmi, Meena Seshu, Vrinda Grover and organisations such as Saheli, Forum Against Oppression of Women, National Alliance of People’s Movement, among others. Marginal farmers If the three laws — Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 — were not repealed, marginal and women farmers are likely to be hit harder as the dismantling of the APMC would mean farmers would not be able to negotiate prices, it said. “The contract farming envisaged under these laws would be that women dependent on small or marginal holdings, either as direct cultivators or tenants, would be highly disadvantaged in negotiating contracts. Shockingly, farmers or anyone representing them will also not have any recourse to the jurisdiction of appellate courts to challenge contracts that dupe them or force them into landlessness and penury,” the letter noted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/women-farmers-will-be-hit-hard-by-farm-laws/article33663358.ece
26 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Centre’s prescription for SAM includes yoga, herbs||AYUSH Centres, yoga, medicinal herbs and indigenous traditional practices are part of the Central government’s prescription for severe acute malnourished (SAM) children. The Ministry of Women and Child Development in its guidelines issued to various State governments has advised that a drive be conducted to identify such children and if necessary they should be referred to hospitals and AYUSH centres for treatment. “States shall launch a drive for identification of SAM children for referral to hospitals [if required] and AYUSH centres in accordance with the detailed action plan approved by the District Nutrition Committee to be finalised in consultation with the Chief Medical Officer. This exercise shall be completed by January 31, 2021,” reads the guidelines issued on January 13 and uploaded on the website of the Ministry recently. Though the guidelines were about nutrition, there was no mention of the impact of COVID-19 on malnourishment levels though global experts have alerted that there will be increase in wasting, stunting and under-five deaths. “The Science of AYUSH is a system that builds and promotes health and wellness and can address the requirements of nutrition by tapping into the indigenous traditional practices,” the guidelines harped. It said AYUSH Centres must leverage “principles and therapeutics of Ayurveda as modalities of intervention for community nutrition and health problems”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centres-prescription-for-sam-includes-yoga-herbs/article33663374.ece
26 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC. asks govt to explain delay in appointments||The Supreme Court on Monday asked the Home and Law Ministries to explain the nearly three-year-long lapse in making appointments to the Law Commission. The posts of Chairperson and Members have been vacant ever since the 21st Law Commission under the former Supreme Court judge, Justice B.S. Chauhan, completed its tenure on August 31, 2018. The government approved the constitution of the 22nd Law Commission on February 19 last. However, it has not appointed the Chairperson and Members till date. A Bench led by Chief Justice Sharad A. Bobde issued notice on a petition filed by advocate A.K. Upadhyay to direct the government to make the appointments. If not, alternatively, Mr. Upadhyay suggested, the court itself, as the custodian of the Constitution and protector of fundamental rights, could use its constitutional power to appoint the Chairperson and Members and declare the Commission a statutory body. Injury to public “Injury to public is extremely large as the Law Commission is headless since 1.9.2018, and hence unable to examine public issues. Even the directions of the constitutional courts to the Law Commission have become dead letter,” Mr. Upadhyay submitted. The petition said the lack of a specialised body in the Law Commission handicapped the government’s push for legal reforms and review of the existing laws.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-asks-govt-to-explain-delay-in-appointments/article33663377.ece
26 January 2021||HYDERABAD,||Revised trial protocol sought on nasal vaccine||The clinical trial of Bharat Biotech’s intranasal vaccine for COVID-19 is likely to take some time to get off ground with a subject expert committee of the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation directing the vaccine maker to submit a revised trial protocol. On an application from Bharat Biotech, seeking permission for clinical trial of the Chimpanzee Adenovirus Vectored COVID-19 intranasal vaccine (BBV154), the committee said the firm should generate safety and immunogenicity data in Phase-I clinical trial, with 75 subjects, in the proposed doses as per the protocol. Thereafter, it should submit the data for consideration of the committee to proceed to Phase II clinical trial.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/revised-trial-protocol-sought-on-nasal-vaccine/article33663379.ece
26 January 2021||January 26 2021 00:00 IST,||States told to prevent rumours on vaccines||"However, it has been reported that unfounded and misleading rumours are circulating on social and other media, creating doubt about the safety and efficacy of these vaccines. Such rumour mongering, particularly by vested interests, can create unwarranted doubts among people,” the letter said. “There is, therefore, a need to check all such kinds of unfounded scare-mongering relating to the safety and immunogenicity of the vaccines,” the letter said. Urging the States and the UTs to put in place an appropriate mechanism to check the spread of such ill-informed rumours, Mr. Bhalla asked the Chief Secretaries to direct all the authorities concerned under the State governments to take measures to counter the spread of all such kind of “false information” about COVID-19 the vaccines. as well as promptly disseminate factual messages.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/states-told-to-prevent-rumours-on-vaccines/article33664022.ece
26 January 2021||Vijayawada,||Students take pledge on Voters’ Day||Students of the Rajiv Gandhi University of Knowledge Technologies (RGUKT), IIIT, celebrated the National Voters’ Day on the campus on Monday. They took a pledge to exercise their franchise and enlighten the public on the need for participating in voting. RGUKT Director G.V.R. Srinivas, dean (Academics) Hari Narayana, administrative officer P. Shyam, faculty Bandi Prasad and students of various streams participated. Many programmes were held to celebrate the occasion at V.R. Siddhartha Engineering College, Vijayawada.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/students-take-pledge-on-voters-day/article33663667.ece
26 January 2021||New Delhi,||‘Introduce a Bill to repeal farm laws’||The government should repeal the three farm laws in the upcoming Budget session. There is no question of short cuts or rewriting, the Trinamool Congress said at a press conference here on Monday. The Trinamool’s Rajya Sabha floor leader, Derek O’Brien, said his party will press for the repeal of the laws, which were bulldozed through Parliament in the monsoon session. He was one of the eight MPs suspended for protesting in the House against passing the Bills amid din. “All of you knowthe TMC’s stand on the laws and Mamata Banerjee’s commitment on land and farmers. In the upcoming session, the government must introduce a Bill & turn it into an Act to repeal the laws.” He said there was no question of taking ‘shortcuts’ through the ordinance route or ‘rewriting’ the Bill. “The nation saw how democracy was murdered in the monsoon session.” He also sought to counter the BJP’s criticism of the Bengal government on stalling the implementation of PM Kisan Yojana.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/introduce-a-bill-to-repeal-farm-laws/article33663361.ece
26 January 2021||Bengaluru,||Bengaluru police stop tractors||The farmers’ Republic Day tractor parade may only be a symbolic gesture in Bengaluru. The city police, who initially refused to allow any tractors into the city, held talks with farmer unions for several hours till Monday late night. While the farmer unions appealed for allowing a few hundred tractors to hold the parade, the city police are yet to confirm their decision. “There is no way we will allow a large tractor parade in the city. They have requested us to allow for a symbolic parade. We will take a call on Tuesday morning, based on the situation,” Bengaluru City Police Commissioner Kamal Pant told The Hindu . While the police have allowed a rally of farmers coming from other districts into the city in other vehicles to congregate at Freedom Park, they refused to allow tractors in till late in the night. “The State government has been keen on suppressing farmers’ movement through the police. Several tractors that had begun their journey towards Bengaluru have been seized and farmers harassed in several districts. The police have now agreed to allow only a few tractors into the city as a symbolic gesture,” said G.C. Bayyareddy, convener of Karnataka Chapter of All-India Kisan Sangharsh Co-ordination Committee. The tractor parade being reduced to a symbolic rally is not something many farmer leaders are happy with. Kodihalli Chandrashekhar said this was unacceptable to them and thousands of tractors from the adjoining districts would come to the city on Tuesday. Senior police officials, however, said they would be stopped at the city’s entry points. Tractors have turned out to be the bone of contention. Cooperation Minister S.T. Somashekhar, also from Bengaluru, said: “It will be difficult to run tractors on the roads of Bengaluru. If thousands of tractors are allowed to descend here, everything else will have to stop.” He appealed to farmers to cooperate. When quizzed over the tractor parade in Delhi, he said it was allowed in Delhi “as the road network in the national capital was different from that of Bengaluru”. However, Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha (KRRS) leader Badagalapura Nagendra argued: “Tractor is a symbol of farmers and it is unacceptable to us that police say we can protest, but without tractors. Farmers’ tractor parade is a symbolic protest across the country on Republic Day, to show who the real people of this country are”. Earlier in the day, the police authorities stopped tractors that had begun their journey towards Bengaluru from several districts, including Kodagu, Mysuru, Tumakuru and Belagavi. Farmers who were making their journeys sat in protest where the tractors were stopped. The police have also seized all tractors that were part of the rally, which has further angered the farmers. Meanwhile, the Bengaluru traffic police designated routes for farmers coming into the city from eight entry points, including Devanahalli, Hosakote, Tumakuru Road, Mysuru Road, Kanakapura Road and Hosur Road, to congregate at Freedom Park.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bengaluru-police-stop-tractors/article33663331.ece
26 January 2021||New Delhi,||CBI bags 30 police medals this year||The CBI has bagged 30 President’s Police Medal for Distinguished Service and Police Medal for Meritorious Service awards this year. The President’s Police Medals for Distinguished Service have been awarded to six officials, while the Police Medals have been conferred on 24. Joint Directors Sampat Meena and Vineet Vinayak, Additonal Superintendent of Police Saraladas Mishra, Deputy Superintendents of Police Vivek Dhir and Surender Kumar Rohilla, and Head Constable Basant Singh Bisht have got the President’s Police Medals for Distinguished Service. Among those recognised for meritorious service are Deputy Inspector-General Abhay Singh, Superintendents of Police Manish Viresh Surti and Prasanna Kumar Panigrahi, Additional Superintendents of Police Prahlad Kishore Jha, Richhpal Singh and Letkholam Hangshing, Deputy Superintendents of Police Ismail Babalal Pendhari, Rama Raman Tripathi and Devraj Vakkada, and Inspector Rajender Singh Gosain. Sub-Inspector Naresh Kumar, ASIs Srigopal Sharma and Samshar Singh Dalal, Head Constables K.K. Sasi, Shiv Dutt Sharma, A. Damodharan, Tapan Kumar Barua, Prasad Thankappan, Ramesh Chand and Naran Meramanbhai Bhochiya, constables Anand Rajaram Pandhare, Avinash Kumar and Prasad G, and Office Superintendent Ranjini Subramanian also received the award for meritorious service this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cbi-bags-30-police-medals-this-year/article33663357.ece
26 January 2021||Srinagar,||Apni Party head meets PM Modi||Apni Party president Altaf Bukhari on Monday called on Prime Minister Narendra Modi in New Delhi and placed a number of demands before him, including the restoration of statehood to the Union Territory (UT) of J&K. In an hour-long meeting, Mr. Bukhari, who split from the Peoples Democratic Party and floated his own party after the abrogation of the special status of J&K, pressed for early restoration of statehood, youth employment policy, restoration of 4G Internet and return of Kashmiri Pandits. “Restoration of statehood is the first and foremost demand of the people of J&K who are eagerly waiting for its fulfilment. Statehood is a reference to the glorious past and a privilege for solidification of the idea of pluralism and respectful coexistence in J&K like any other State,” Mr. Bukhari said. He described the meeting as “cordial”. Terming migrant Kashmiri Pandits as “an inseparable part of J&K”, Mr. Bukhari demanded “early rehabilitation of Pandits with dignity”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/apni-party-head-meets-pm-modi/article33663824.ece
26 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Govt. asserts stance on UPSC re-test||The Union government on Monday made it clear in the Supreme Court that it cannot afford to give another chance to the Union Public Services Commission (UPSC) aspirants, including “last-attempters”, who claimed their preparations for the October 4 prelims were severely restricted due to COVID-19. In a 13-page affidavit filed before the court on Monday late, the Department of Personnel and Training said it was “curious to note that the petitioners, who participated in the examination with open eyes, only approached the Supreme Court after the results of the examination was declared”. Giving an additional attempt or relaxation of age for some candidates would amount to extending differential treatment. It would lead to an “un-levelling of the playing field”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/govt-asserts-stance-on-upsc-re-test/article33663378.ece
26 January 2021||Mumbai,||HC rejects bail plea of Yes Bank founder||The Bombay High Court on Monday rejected the bail plea filed by YES Bank founder Rana Kapoor who is lodged at Taloja Central Jail in the money laundering case. Senior advocate Harish Salve represented Mr. Kapoor and argued before a single bench of justice PD Naik that there has been no money laundering, but a simple loan transaction. He added those loans have been repaid however no money has been received in the name of Mr. Kapoor. The Enforcement Directorate’s (ED) counsel Hiten Venegavkar opposed the plea and said Mr. Kapoor conspired with Kapil and Dheeraj Wadhawan of Dewan Housing Finance Limited (DHFL) and siphoned off Rs. 5050 crores from Yes Bank.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-rejects-bail-plea-of-yes-bank-founder/article33663384.ece
26 January 2021||Hyderabad,||Health worker’s autopsy conducted||Post-mortem examination on the 45-year-old female healthcare worker who died four days after taking COVID-19 vaccine, was conducted on Monday. The woman, who got vaccinated at Urban Primary Health Centre in New Shayampeta, Warangal Urban, on January 19, died in the early hours of Sunday. The District Adverse Event Following Immunisation committee examined the matter. Senior officials said viscera, body fluids and part of some organs collected from her will be sent to the Central Forensic Science Laboratory and National Institute of Virology-Pune, for further examination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/health-workers-autopsy-conducted/article33663329.ece
26 January 2021||Hyderabad,||New design centre opened at Kalam missile complex||Vice President M. Venkaiah Naidu inaugurated the Integrated Weapon System Design Centre at the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO)’s Dr APJ Abdul Kalam Missile Complex here in the presence of DRDO chairman and secretary of defence research and development G. Satheesh Reddy on Monday. The facility is to enhance the capability in design and development of command and control systems for Surface-to-Air Missile systems and Ballistic Missile Defence systems. It is also expected to give a thrust to the overall system design and evaluation methodology for state-of-the-art missile systems and will help in improving the performance of missiles. This will play a major role in the realisation of highly complex futuristic and aerospace and defence systems, said a press release. Addressing the DRDO fraternity, Mr. Naidu complimented scientists for their hard work and dedication even during the lockdown and stated that efforts of DRDO have led to the phenomenal technological advancements in the form of a series of successful missions of modern advanced weapons systems including various missiles. The effort should be to become a top exporter in the field of missiles. DRDO is an ‘epitome and torchbearer’ of scientific social responsibility and a place of eternal learning and its role during the pandemic has set an example for others to emulate, he said and pointed out that the development of a range of indigenous defence systems by DRDO has given confidence to the government for banning import of 101 items. The V-P praised the scientists for maintaining the legacy of Dr Abdul Kalam and said the former president wanted India to become a superpower and mentioned that the scientists have the calibre to make the ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ vision successful. It is also important to hold hands of young techno-preneurs, industries, academia, guide them and move together to build a strong and technologically superior country, Mr Naidu said. A new missile technology exposition and seminar hall was also opened to display missile technologies and weapon systems. Director General of Missiles and Strategic Systems M.S.R. Prasad was present on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/new-design-centre-opened-at-kalam-missile-complex/article33663330.ece
26 January 2021||Kochi,||Sivasankar gets bail in money laundering case||After being incarcerated for over two months in the money laundering and diplomatic channel gold smuggling cases, M. Sivasankar, the former Principal Secretary to the Chief Minister, secured bail from the Kerala High Court and the Economic Offences Court, Ernakulam, in both the cases on Monday. The High Court granted bail to Mr. Sivasankar in a money laundering case registered by the Enforcement Directorate. Justice Ashok Menon, while granting Mr. Sivasankar bail, observed that there was no doubt about the complicity of the petitioner in the case and there were no reasonable grounds to believe that he was not guilty. Pandemic times The court, however, noted that he was subjected to interrogation, including custodial interrogation, for a number of times. The present pandemic times also did not encourage the incarceration of an accused indefinitely. Besides, the prosecution had not been able to establish whether there was a likelihood of his committing any offence while he was released on bail. Therefore, the court found that there was no rationale for continuing his judicial custody as an undertrial. The court observed that the investigation revealed that the petitioner had played a significant role in the offence. He could not give a satisfactory explanation regarding why he was anxious to introduce Swapna Suresh, one of the accused in the gold smuggling case, to Venugopal, a chartered accountant and a witness in the case, to facilitate parking of her money in a locker. Swapna had given statements that Mr. Sivasankar was aware of the deposits and withdrawals from the locker. “It was true that the prosecution may not have been able to establish with precision how the proceeds of crime were generated. But indications about the applicant having knowledge of the smuggling activities in which Swapna was involved suggest that he also had a share in the proceeds of crime,” the court added. The court ordered his release on bail on his executing a bond for Rs. 5 lakh with two solvent sureties to the like amount.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sivasankar-gets-bail-in-money-laundering-case/article33663337.ece
26 January 2021||Kochi,||Juvenile accused in assault case found hanging||The body of one of the six juvenile accused in an assault case, the video of which had gone viral on social media last week, was found hanging in the bathroom of his house at Glass Factory Colony at Kalamassery on Monday morning. Under strain The 17-year-old was reportedly under severe mental strain since he was arraigned as an accused. “He had shared with his father his anxiety and his inability to face others since the incident,” said P.R. Santhosh, Station House Officer, Kalamassery police. The video had shown a seven-member group brutally assaulting a 17-year-old allegedly for having an affair with the sister of one of the accused and for talking about their smoking habits. It took place on a vacant plot last Thursday. The assault was gruesome and the youth found hanging was reportedly the most brutal of the lot. The police have registered a case for unnatural death. The only adult among the seven accused, an 18-year-old, was arrested and released on bail. The rest were sent back home with their parents who were summoned to the police station. Both the accused and the assaulted youth were friends and hailed from the same neighbourhood in Glass Factory Colony in Kalamassery. Background report The police are in the process of preparing a social background report on the juvenile accused after verifying their antecedents. It will be submitted to the Child Welfare Committee. All the seven accused were charged with IPC Sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 324 (voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous means or weapons), 341 (wrongful restraint), 506 (criminal intimidation), 146 (rioting), 149 (unlawful assembly). The police registered the case suo motu after taking note of the viral social media video. Suicide prevention helpline no - Maitri: 0484-2540530||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/juvenile-accused-in-assault-case-found-hanging/article33663338.ece
26 January 2021||New York,||Jayati Ghosh appointed to UN advisory panel on economic, social affairs||Indian development economist Jayati Ghosh is among the 20 prominent personalities appointed by the United Nations to a high-level advisory board that will provide recommendations for the UN Secretary-General to respond to the current and future socio-economic challenges in the post-COVID-19 world. Dr. Ghosh, 65, is currently a professor of economics at the University of Massachusetts Amherst.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/jayati-ghosh-appointed-to-un-advisory-panel-on-economic-social-affairs/article33663367.ece
26 January 2021||New Delhi,||NCPCR urges Maharashtra to appeal against HC order||The apex body for child rights, NCPCR, on Monday requested the Maharashtra government to appeal against an order by the Bombay High Court where the judge said groping a minor without “skin to skin contact” was not sexual assault. Chairman of NCPCR Priyank Kanoongo wrote to Chief Secretary of Maharashtra, Sanjay Kumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ncpcr-urges-maharashtra-to-appeal-against-hc-order/article33663827.ece
26 January 2021||Jammu,||Pilot dies as Army chopper crash lands in Jammu||A pilot, who sustained injuries after an Army chopper crash landed in Jammu’s Lakhanpur on Monday evening, died of his injuries in the hospital, said an Army official. Another pilot too was injured in the incident that took place at 7.50 p.m. “A Dhruv helicopter on a routine patrolling crash landed near Basoli Morh,” officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pilot-dies-as-army-chopper-crash-lands-in-jammu/article33663828.ece
26 January 2021||New Delhi,||Cong. declares panels for Assam polls||The Congress on Monday announced eight panels ahead of the Assembly elections in Assam around April-May. The panels have been carefully composed to balance different factions of the Pradesh Congress Committee (APCC). While APCC chief Ripun Bora will head the pradesh election committee, leader of the Congress Legislature Party (CLP) Debabrata Saikia will be the committee’s vice-chairman. Senior leader and MP Pradyut Bora will head the campaign committee that has 50 members. Former Lok Sabha MP Shushmita Dev is a member of the campaign and the election management committees. While Lok Sabha MP Gaurav Gogoi, son of three-term former Chief Minister Tarun Gogoi, will be heading the manifesto committee, Deputy CLP leader Rokibul Hussain will head the publicity committee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cong-declares-panels-for-assam-polls/article33663382.ece
26 January 2021||Mumbai,||Former BARC head back in jail||The Bombay High Court on Monday was informed that Partho Dasgupta, former CEO and MD of Barc and accused in the TRP manipulation case, was shifted back to Taloja Central Jail from J.J. Hospital. Public prosecutor Deepak Thakare submitted Mr. Dasgupta’s medical report to a single judge bench of Justice P.D. Naik, showing that he is in stable condition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/former-barc-head-back-in-jail/article33663383.ece
26 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Ancient temple granary in Villupuram cries for attention||The granary at the Ranganathaswamy temple in Adhi Thiruvarangam in Villupuram district is in a state of neglect. It is one of the few granaries in temples in Tamil Nadu. The other granaries are in Srirangam temple, Jambukeswarar temple in Tiruvanaikaval and Palaivananathar temple in Thirupalaivalam in Thanjavur district, which were restored recently. “I raised the issue in the Assembly. It is not just the granary. The entire temple needs renovation. I have also made a representation to the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR&CE) Department. But there is no proper response,” said K. Vasantham Karthikeyan, member of the Rishivandiyam Assembly Constituency. Known as Uthararangam, the main deity of the temple in reclining posture is made of medicinal herbs. The deity is bigger than the presiding deity of Srirangam Ranganathaswamy. The granary was built during the reign of the Vijayanagara kings to store the paddy from the fields of the temple. Grants to termple Inscriptions in the temple testify to the grants given by the Vijayanagara kings for the renovation of the temple tank and lands for temple employees. Years of neglect have left the granary in a bad shape. Plants have grown over the structure, and their roots are threatening to destroy the granary further. Mr. Karthikeyan said there was a road that linked the area with Thanjavur and during the British period it lost its importance. “If the temple was on any arterial road, it would have gained importance. Unfortunately, it is far away from the highways,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ancient-temple-granary-in-villupuram-cries-for-attention/article33663510.ece
26 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Ten from T.N. chosen for Padma Shri||Ten personalities from various fields from Tamil Nadu were among the 102 persons chosen for Padma Shri awards announced on Monday. Legendary playback singer and musician S.P. Balasubrahmanyam, who died in September 2020, was chosen for Padma Vibhushan along with six others. No one from the State were among the 10 persons chosen for Padma Bhushan awards. The following is the list of Padma Shri awardees and the field in which they have been chosen: P.Subramanian (posthumous), trade and industry; Thiruvengadam Veeraraghavan (posthumous), medicine; K.C. Sivasankaran (posthumous), art; Pappammal, agriculture; Subbu Arumugam, art; Solomon Pappaiah, literature and education-journalism; Marachi Subburaman, social work; Bombay Jayashri Ramnath, art; Sridhar Vembu, trade and industry, and P. Anitha, sports. ‘Gear man’ P. Subramanian, known as the “gear man of Coimbatore”, who passed away in December 2020, started Shanthi Gears in the 1970s and made gears for a wide range of industries and even designed and developed machinery to make the gears. Apart from that, he is known for his philanthropy. “He was not a person who liked recognition. The social work that he started continues even today,” said his daughter Sangeetha. Two-rupee doctor Dr. Thiruvengadam Veeraraghavan, popularly known as “the two rupee doctor”, who died in August 2020 at the age of 70, catered to patients from north Chennai. Born to Veeraraghavan, a farmer, and Radhabai, he did his schooling in Thyagaraya School and then medicine from Government Stanley Medical College. Hailing from a humble background, he was committed to helping the poor and downtrodden. 105-year-old Pappamal, who still works hard in her field at Thekkampatti in Coimbatore district despite her age, was born in 1914. She was brought up by her paternal grandmother after she lost her parents at a young age. She does organic farming in about 2.5 acres. She was a special invitee at the debates organised by the Tamil Nadu Agriculture University and was also elected as a councillor of Thekkampatti panchayat in 1959. Villupattu exponent Subbu Arumugam, whose popular and energetic opening line ‘Thandhanathom endru solliye’ is remembered by his fans, is a native of Tirunelveli district. In a message conveyed through his daughter Bharathi Thirumagan, who performs on the stage with him, he said, “It is all with the blessings of the Maha Periyava that this has been possible.” Solomon Pappaiah, 84, renowned judge of ‘pattimandram’ (debates) and a Tamil scholar, expressed joy on the announcement. A native of Madurai, he studied in American College and later worked in the same institution as a professor in the Department of Tamil. A recipient of Kalaimamani award from the Tamil Nadu government in 2000, he has also acted in a couple of Tamil movies. Empowering women Marachi Subburaman, 71, is the director of Tiruchi-based non-governmental organisation, Society for Community Organisation and People’s Education (SCOPE). Through the organisation, he has taken up projects on women empowerment and livelihood, watershed development and ecological sanitation, specialising in ‘urine diversion’ toilets and human waste composting. He has been involved in construction of a large number of leach pit toilets in Tiruchi and other districts. While she said she felt ecstatic, 58-year-old Bombay Jayashri Ramnath sounded calm and composed while expressing her happiness on being chosen for the award. “Be it good or bad, I always turn to music to find strength. Every time I tune my tambura, I completely forget everything. This is a moment of absolute joy and pride for me. I’m deeply thankful to my gurus, my mother, my husband, my brother and my son,” she said. Sridhar Vembu, the founder and CEO of privately-held Zoho, a maker of cloud-based business software, was born in 1967 in Thanjavur district. After graduating from IIT Madras, he went on to obtain M.S and Ph.D from Princeton University. Mr. Vembu has expressed his passion towards “rural revival”. Zoho’s first rural office is located in Tenkasi. He currently resides there and focuses on setting up schools for children in rural areas. Indian hoopster Anitha represented the Indian basketball women’s team for 18 years, played nine Asian championships and captained the senior team on seven occasions. “Vidaa muyarchi (perseverance) and family support were the main reasons I got the award,” the 35-year-old said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ten-from-tn-chosen-for-padma-shri/article33663898.ece
26 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Centre to examine fishermen’s plea on deep-sea fishing vessels||The Centre will examine the request of fishermen of Rameswaram for increasing the unit cost of deep-sea fishing vessels under a Tamil Nadu-specific scheme, according to K. Gopal, Principal Secretary (Animal Husbandry, Dairying and Fisheries) in the State government. An assurance to this effect was provided during the recent visit of Union Minister of Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Dairying, Giriraj Singh, to Rameswaram. Dr. Gopal disclosed this, while replying to a question by The Hindu on  whether the issue of hiking the unit cost was raised. While the unit cost of a deep-sea fishing vessel under the State-specific scheme, also called the Palk Bay scheme, was fixed at Rs. 80 lakh , the unit cost under the Pradhan Mantri Matsya Sampada Yojana (PMMSY), an all-India scheme aimed at focused and sustainable development of fisheries sector, had been determined at Rs. 1.2 crore. One of the reasons cited for the poor response from the State’s fishermen to the former is the insufficient financial assistance envisaged which has, in turn, been governed by the low unit cost. Palk Bay scheme The Palk Bay scheme was launched in 2017 with a view to providing 2,000 vessels in three years to fishermen of the State and motivating them to abandon bottom trawling. Another objective of the scheme is to “reduce fishing pressure” around the proximity of International Maritime Boundary Line (IMBL) so that Tamil Nadu fishermen did not cross the IMBL and fish in Sri Lankan waters. Till about a month ago, 42 beneficiaries were handed over the vessels. As for the number of fishing boats that have been impounded by the Sri Lankan authorities, the Secretary said it was 12. 62 boats salvaged In the last four years, 62 boats were salvaged. On the status of 125 unsalvageable boats that had been proposed for auctioning in Sri Lanka, the Indian High Commission in the neighbouring country had indicated to the State Fisheries Department to explore the possibility of sending a team to the island for arriving at the present value of the boats, Dr. Gopal added.  The unit cost of a deep-sea fishing vessel under the State-specific scheme has been fixed at Rs. 80 lakh||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/centre-to-examine-fishermens-plea/article33663490.ece
26 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||108 helpline got calls mostly from COVID-19 patients, pregnant women||Amid the pandemic and the lockdown last year, the 108 ambulance service handled a large number of patients, including those infected with COVID-19 and pregnant women, in the Chennai region. They accounted for more than half of the cases handled by the ambulance network in six districts of the region. Last year, 3,30,084 persons availed of the ambulance service in Chennai region that covers Chennai, Tiruvallur, Chengalpattu, Kancheepuram, Cuddalore and Villupuram districts. The callers included COVID-19 patients, pregnant women, persons injured in road accidents and those in other medical emergencies such as cardiac patients, poisoning and snake bites. The ambulance service handled 1,24,919 patients with COVID-19 and 52,468 pregnant women. Mohamed Bilal, regional manager, of GVK EMRI, which runs the 108 ambulance service, said: “A larger number of callers were patients with COVID-19. Similarly, many pregnant women utilised the ambulances and we took them mainly to government hospitals. During the lockdown, there were no road traffic accidents as there was no movement of vehicles.” With the COVID-19 tally declining, the ambulance staff are back to concentrating on regular services. In Chennai, the ambulance network reached 1,02,208 persons. Of these, 48,590 were COVID-19 patients and 6,262 pregnant women. As many as 24,981 out of the total 66,012 persons covered in Tiruvallur district were COVID-19 patients. This was followed by 12,640 pregnant women. Patients with COVID-19 were moved from their homes to hospitals, and dropped back on being discharged. Response time There are over 160 ambulances operating in the two districts as well as 15 first responder bikes. The emergency response centre received more than 15,000 calls a day. Ambulance service was available in eight minutes after a call in Chennai while the vehicles were also stationed near accident spots, officials said. During the pandemic, about 26% to 28% beneficiaries who called the ambulances in Cuddalore and Villupuram districts were COVID-19 patients. In both the districts, pregnant women accounted for 28% of the callers. A total of 8,043 COVID-19 patients and 8,155 pregnant women used the ambulances in Villupuram while 10,017 COVID-19 patients and 10,611 pregnant women used the service in Cuddalore. There are 33 ambulances in Kancheepuram and 60 in Chengalpattu. The network handled 33,288 COVID-19 patients in the two districts. Of these, 18,860 were pregnant women while 13,496 were persons injured in road accidents.  During the lockdown, there were no road traffic accidents as there was no movement of vehiclesMohamed BilalGVK EMRI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/108-helpline-got-calls-mostly-from-covid-19-patients-pregnant-women/article33663866.ece
26 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Vegetables turn pricey as supplies shrink||Prices of some vegetables are rising at the Koyambedu wholesale market for a few days now because of a shortage in supply. Drumstick, being sold at Rs. 110 a kg, is now the costliest vegetable in the market. Wholesale traders said the vegetable was being received from Ahmedabad. Prices may dip in a fortnight when trucks from Chidambaram, Oddanchatram and Andhra Pradesh bring drumsticks. Similarly, the prices of okra, onion and potato had shot up. While okra was sold for up to Rs. 60 a kg on Monday, onion was available for Rs. 40 a kg. A dip in arrivals from Maharashtra and Telangana had pushed up the prices. The lifting of a ban on onion exports this month had led to a slight increase in the prices, said P. Sukumar, treasurer, Koyambedu Vegetables, Fruits and Flowers Merchants’ Association. “We expect better arrivals of onions and potatoes from February. Potatoes are costly by 10%-15% this week because of less production,” he said. However, most other vegetables are priced at less than Rs. 25 a kg in the wholesale market, and this trend may continue till summer. Although the number of trucks bringing vegetables to the market increased by 20% compared to December, traffic congestion, particularly on Mondays and weekends, deterred many retailers from making a purchase. This led to a drop in sales. S. Chandran, president, Koyambedu Periyar Wholesale Market Licensed Merchants Association, said the arrival of beans and brinjal decreased by 50% on Monday. “Whenever the market opens after a holiday, vehicles have to wait for two or three hours. As one of the approach roads from Poonamallee High Road has been closed, traffic pile-up has become regular,” he said. “About 2,500 retailers’ vehicles visit the market daily, apart from 400-450 trucks. Measures must be taken to regulate the vehicles’ movement and they must be allowed in batches, just like in Thirumazhisai,” he said,  Most vegetables are priced at less than Rs. 25 a kg in the wholesale market P. Sukumar Treasurer, Koyambedu Vegetables, Fruits and Flowers Merchants’ Association||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vegetables-turn-pricey-as-supplies-shrink/article33663873.ece
26 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||540 fresh COVID-19 cases, 4 deaths in Tamil Nadu||Tamil Nadu reported 540 fresh cases of COVID-19 and four deaths on Monday. Kallakurichi and Perambalur had no fresh cases, while Ariyalur, Theni and Virudhunagar reported one case each. In fact, 18 districts had fewer than 10 cases each. While 157 persons tested positive in Chennai, Coimbatore reported 56 cases, Chengalpattu 38 and Tiruppur 34. There were 25 cases in Thiruvallur and 20 each in Erode and Namakkal. After reporting no death on Sunday, Chennai registered one fatality on Monday. Coimbatore, Cuddalore and Tiruvallur reported one death each. All four had co-morbidities. Among them was a 74-year-old man from Chennai, who had coronary artery disease. He was admitted to the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital on January 23 and died the next day owing to COVID-19 pneumonia, respiratory failure, acute cerebrovascular accident and brainstem dysfunction. The fresh cases, including three returnees from Chandigarh, took the overall tally to 8,35,280. Another 627 persons were discharged. This has taken the total number of persons discharged to 8,18,147. A total of 12,320 persons have died. At present, 4,813 persons were under treatment, including 1,634 in Chennai, 465 in Coimbatore and 391 in Chengalpattu. A total of 55,919 samples were tested in the last 24 hours. So far, 1,56,96,304 samples have been tested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/540-fresh-covid-19-cases-4-deaths-in-tamil-nadu/article33663479.ece
26 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||MDMK, allies protest against death of T.N. fishermen in Palk Strait||Marumalarchi Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (MDMK) founder Vaiko led an agitation here on Monday condemning the death of four fishermen allegedly due to an attack by the Sri Lankan Navy in the Palk Strait. He also condemned the Sri Lankan government and the Union government in Delhi over the incident. ‘Physically tortured’ Speaking at the protest, Mr. Vaiko also strongly criticised the AIADMK government for reportedly denying permission for a fresh post-mortem of the mortal remains of the four fishermen from Pudukkottai district. “They have been physically tortured with iron rods and hockey sticks. Their bodies had burn injuries after they were sent to India. Relatives of the fishermen were not allowed to see the bodies,” Mr. Vaiko alleged. Coming down strongly on the Sri Lankan Coast Guard and the Navy, the Rajya Sabha member contended that the personnel attached to these forces were inhuman. Mr. Vaiko questioned whether the Centre would have acted the same way if the deceased were from Gujarat and not from Tamil Nadu. He wondered whether the Indian Coast Guard and the Navy were protecting the interests of fishermen from Tamil Nadu. Mr. Vaiko also criticised Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami for denying permission for another post-mortem examination. Mr. Palaniswami did not have the moral standing to continue as the Chief Minister, claimed Mr. Vaiko. So far, over 800 fishermen from Tamil Nadu have died due to attacks by the Sri Lankan Navy, Mr. Vaiko claimed. DMK leader and Rajya Sabha member R.S. Bharathi, VCK chief and MP Thol. Thirumavalavan and other leaders in the DMK-led alliance participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mdmk-leads-protest/article33663489.ece
26 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||President’s Police Medal for Chennai police chief||Commissioner of Police, Chennai, Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal is among the three officials from Tamil Nadu chosen for the President’s Police Medal for Distinguished Service. The 1994-batch IPS officer was earlier conferred with the Tamil Nadu Chief Minister’s Police Medal for Excellence in Public Service and also the Police Medal for Meritorious Service and the Chief Minister’s Medal for Outstanding Devotion to Duty. Mr. Aggarwal has served Tamil Nadu police in different capacities, including as Commissioner of Police in Tirunelveli and Madurai, Inspector-General of Police, Special Investigation Division, Crime Branch CID and Additional Commissioner of Police, Chennai (South). He played a key role in the management of migrant workers during the Covid-19 lockdown in the State. The other two officers chosen for the medal are ADGP S. Davidson Devasirvatham and inspector P. Manikandakumar, Tamil Nadu Special Police (Battalion-IV), Kovaipudur. Mr. Devasirvatham, presently ADGP, Technical Services, Chennai, has served as Madurai Police Commissioner, Chief of Intelligence in the capacity of IGP, Special Branch CID. His earlier postings include IGP, West Zone, Coimbatore, IGP, Administration, Chennai, and Superintendent of Police, 'Q' Branch CID. Among those who will receive the Police Medal for Meritorious Services are IGP, Idol Wing CID, T.S. Anbu, IGP, Special Investigation Division, CB-CID, Kapil Kumar Saratkar, IGP, Administration, Santosh Kumar, and 17 others in the rank of Deputy Superintendents of Police and inspectors and other ranks. The medals announced on the occasion of the Republic Day celebrations, 2021, would be presented during a medal parade to be held on a later date, police sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/city-police-chief-gets-presidents-medal/article33663896.ece
26 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Washington Sundar is election icon of Chennai Corporation||The Greater Chennai Corporation has nominated cricketer Washington Sundar as the Chennai District Election Icon for the upcoming Assembly election. Chennai Corporation Deputy Commissioner (Revenue and Finance) Meghanatha Reddy said the cricketer would play a role in reaching out to first-time voters in the 16 Assembly constituencies of the city. “He is a young voter. He will promote participatory voting and ethical voting among young voters,” said Mr. Reddy. After returning from a historic tour of Australia, Mr. Sundar has been placed on quarantine. After the completion of his quarantine, Mr. Sundar will participate in events to be conducted in colleges as part of the OPEN (online participation of electoral network) campaign by the Corporation. At least 10,000 students are expected to participate in the campaign in various parts of the city ahead of the election.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/washington-sundar-is-election-icon-of-chennai-corporation/article33663519.ece
26 January 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Traffic diversion tomorrow for Jayalalithaa memorial opening||The police announced traffic diversions for Wednesday in view of the inauguration of former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa’s memorial near Labour Statue on Kamarajar Salai. According to an official release, the stretch of Kamarajar Salai from the Lighthouse to the War Memorial will be closed from 6.00 a.m. until the conclusion of the function. Commercial vehicles coming from Adyar and proceeding to Broadway on Kamarajar Salai will be diverted at Greenways Point towards R.K. Mutt Road, V.K. Iyer Road, Devanathan Street, St. Mary’s Road, R.K. Mutt Road, Luz Junction, Luz Church Road, Royapettah High Road, Royapettah Clock Tower, General Peters Road and Anna Salai. The other vehicles, including MTC buses, from Adyar towards Broadway on Kamarajar Salai will be diverted towards Kutchery Road at the Santhome High Road-Kutchery Road Junction. These vehicles use Kutchery Road, Luz Junction, Luz Church Road, Royapettah High Road, Royapettah Clock Tower, General Peters Road and Anna Salai. MTC buses (route no. 27-D) taking Dr. Rahdakrishnan Salai and proceeding to Gandhi Statue will be diverted at Dr. R.K. Salai towards the V.M. Street Junction and then towards V.M. Street. These vehicles will take Royapettah High Road, Luz Junction, R.K. Mutt Road, Mandaveli Junction, South Canal Bank Road and Srinivasapuram to reach the Foreshore Estate. MTC buses (route no. 21-G), coming from Luz Junction and proceeding towards Gandhi Statue will be diverted through Nilgiris Junction, Music Academy, Government Royapettah Hospital, Royapettah Clock Tower, Whites Road, Smith Road and Anna Salai to Broadway. No vehicles will be allowed beyond Dr. R.K. Salai at the Dr. Natesan Road Junction towards Gandhi Statue. These vehicles will be diverted towards Dr. Natesan Road to the Karaneeswar Koil Junction. No vehicle will be allowed beyond Wallajah Road at Bells Road Junction (except MTC buses) towards Kamarajar Salai. These vehicles will be diverted towards the Triplicane High Road. The Anna Square bus terminus will be temporarily shifted to Raja Annamalai Mandram. The vehicles from Parry’s Corner to Adyar will be diverted at the RBI subway (north) towards Raja Annamalai Mandram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/traffic-diversion-tomorrow-for-jayalalithaa-memorial-opening/article33663894.ece
26 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Panel asks govt. to pay compensation for delay in procuring death certificate||The State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) on Monday asked the Tamil Nadu government to pay a compensation of Rs. 50,000 to a woman who was not provided with the death certificate of her daughter. During the hearing, it came to light that the woman died on September 5, 2018, but the death was registered only on December 29, 2020. The SHRC also recommended that the compensation sum be recovered from the village administrative officer (VAO), who was responsible for the delay. SHRC member A. Chittaranjan Mohandoss also recommended initiating departmental action against VAO Venkatesh Prabhu of Vandalur village. In her complaint, V. Selvi of Vandalur, said Revenue Department officials deliberately failed to provide her with the death certificate of her daughter Mathangi, who died under suspicious circumstances allegedly due to the harassment and cruelty meted out to her by her in-laws. While a criminal case had been registered against Mathangi’s in-laws, a case moved by her mother (complainant before the SHRC) was pending before the Madras High Court. The complainant had been running from pillar to post to get her daughter’s death certificate. The respondent also presented his side of the argument. After hearing arguments from both sides, the SHRC member said despite the orders passed by tahsildar and the Revenue Divisional Officer (RDO) on October 22, 2018, and November 9, 2019, the VAO did not register the death. Mathangi’s death was registered only on December 29, 2020. “The VAO failed to do his mandated duty and the complainant was unnecessarily harassed for two long years. There is no justification for this dereliction of duty. The petitioner was caused untold harassment and in her desperation had approached the tahsildar, the RDO and the Hon’ble High Court. Even the order of the tahsildar was disregarded by the respondent and there was an undue delay to register the death of petitioner’s daughter. This Commission is of the view that the action of the respondent is a deliberate action resulting in gross violation of human rights,” the Commissioned noted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-told-to-pay-relief-for-delay-in-getting-death-certificate/article33663497.ece
26 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Kamal Haasan promises salaries for panchayat heads||Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM) founder Kamal Haasan on Monday promised salaries for panchayat presidents and councillors in rural local bodies and pooled budgets for all three tiers of panchayats. Apart from this, the right to recall elected officials in Gram Sabhas, passing of the Tamil Nadu Urban Local Self Governance Act, and finding a permanent solution to the problems caused by floods were among the seven-point agenda announced by the MNM to strengthen urban and rural local bodies in the State. Speaking to the reporters via video call, Mr. Haasan said that panchayat presidents and councillors should be given salaries to prevent corruption. “Panchayat presidents and councillors shouldn’t be asked to do their work as charity. Those who draw salaries are answerable,” he said. With respect to urban local bodies, he said that a Tamil Nadu Urban Local Self Governance Act would be enacted. He added that election to the civic bodies would be made mandatory every 5 years. Mr. Haasan, who is recuperating following a surgery, said that local bodies were a miniature version of the State Assembly. “Since there is a chance that local body elections could be organised soon after the Assembly election, there is a need to understand their importance. When we talk about ‘Reimagining Tamil Nadu’, it includes local bodies as well,” he said. He criticised the previous governments and the present one for not holding Gram Sabhas properly. Mr. Haasan refused to respond to TNCC president K.S. Alagiri’s remark that MNM should join the Congress’ alliance. He said, “While we respect the Congress, this is not the time to talk about the alliance.”  Panchayat presidents and councillors shouldn’t be asked to do their work as charity. Those who draw salaries are answerable||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kamal-haasan-promises-salaries-for-panchayat-heads/article33663484.ece
26 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||7,307 get vaccinated on Day 10||Another 7,307 people received the vaccines against COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu on Monday. In 10 days, a total of 69,027 healthcare professionals/workers were covered. In a bid to allay apprehensions among the medical fraternity, Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar gave an update on his health status after vaccination, and two officials of the Directorate of Public Health and Preventive Medicine got themselves vaccinated. In a tweet, the Minister said, “It’s been more than 72 hours since my COVID-19 vaccination. I am comfortable except for mild pain in the injection site... Keep apprehensions aside and get vaccinated in your turn.” He received a shot of Covaxin at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH) here. T.S. Selvavinayagam, Director of Public Health and Preventive Medicine, and Vinay Kumar, Joint Director (Immunisation), were administered the vaccine at the RGGGH. Of the 7,307 persons, 7,145 received Covishield and 162 received Covaxin. Covishield was administered at 166 sites and Covaxin at six sites. Nearly 14 districts, which had a capacity of 300 persons to 500 persons a day, had less than 100 takers. In Chennai, which had a day’s capacity of 1,800, 1,346 received Covishield and 35 received Covaxin. Coimbatore and Sivaganga were the only health unit districts that vaccinated more than the day’s capacity — 699 persons were vaccinated as against the capacity of 400 in Coimbatore and 206 persons were vaccinated as against 100 in Sivaganga.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/7307-get-vaccinated-on-day-10/article33663481.ece
26 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Look beyond caste, religion, political identity’||Makkal Needhi Maiam founder Kamal Haasan on Sunday said people should look beyond caste, religion and political identity while voting for a candidate during elections. In a statement on the eve of National Voters’ Day, Mr. Haasan said democracy gave dignity and power to the citizens when India became a democratic country and held elections for the first time. “However, many of us don’t think of ourselves as free individuals. We continue to vote as a social group – we vote for a candidate just because he hails from our own caste or goes to the same temple to which we go, or simply because our families have voted for a particular party for generations. This is, in a way, a slave mentality,” he said. Mr. Haasan said the voters must think about who the candidate is, what their qualifications are, whether they have been honest and righteous, and what their plans are to develop their constituencies. “Without considering these aspects, the people are voting based on caste, religion and political identity. This is defeating the purpose of democracy. Don’t look at the caste [of the candidate]. See if the candidate can achieve something,” Mr. Haasan said. According to him, corrupt politicians were accruing wealth illegally for the next 10 generations and bringing their children into politics to safeguard their wealth.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/look-beyond-caste-religion-political-identity/article33663518.ece
26 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Will address complaints received during campaign in first 100 days’||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Monday assured the voters that he would address all complaints received during his State-wide campaign tour, starting on January 29, within 100 days of assuming office. Speaking at a press conference at his late father M. Karunanidhi’s house at Gopalapuram to announce the campaign, ‘Ungal Thogidhiyil Stalin’ [Stalin in your constituency], he said, “I will address the problems raised by you in the first 100 days of my government. This will be my first work, to be undertaken on a war footing. A separate Ministry will be formed under me to look into these complaints and address them...” State-wide tour Mr. Stalin will start the campaign in Tiruvannamalai on January 29 and visit all 234 constituencies in 30 days. Anyone could hand him his complaint that would be deposited in a box that he himself would seal. Those who were unable to attend these meetings could register their issues on www.stalinani.com or the Stalin Ani app or on 91710 91710, he said. The DMK president said people need not doubt this promise. “The reason I am making this announcement from Kalaignar’s [Karunanidhi’s] house is he had kept his promises and only made those that he could keep,” he said. This initiative would help the DMK address the problems of at least one crore families in the first 100 days of its government.  A separate Ministry will be formed under me to look into these complaints and address them||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/will-address-complaints-received-during-campaign-in-first-100-days/article33663476.ece
26 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Petition filed in SC seeking time to conduct mop-up counselling’||The State government on Monday informed the Madras High Court of having approached the Supreme Court, seeking more time to conduct mop-up counselling for medical admissions this year to fill all unfilled government quota seats in private medical colleges. Appearing before Justice B. Pugalendhi, Special Government Pleader (Education) E. Manohar said the government had already approached the Supreme Court and was awaiting necessary orders. The submission was made during the hearing of a case for conducting mop-up counselling. MBBS aspirant’s plea Sushma Devi Perumal, a 19-year-old MBBS aspirant, had filed the case contending that she had secured 403 out of 720 marks in the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test and was placed at 846th rank under the Scheduled Caste category. She could not secure a seat in either the Phase I counselling conducted on December 12 or in the Phase II counselling conducted on January 8. However, she was hopeful of getting admitted in the mop-up counselling, but no such counselling was conducted. The Special Government Pleader told the court that a petition was filed in the Supreme Court much earlier, seeking extension of time for conduct of the mop-up counselling and that the matter was still pending. After taking note of his submissions, the judge adjourned the writ petition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/petition-filed-in-sc-seeking-time-to-conduct-mop-up-counselling/article33663892.ece
26 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Working with private healthcare sector giving good results: Minister||Tamil Nadu had created a six-tier medical care treatment with the setting up of Amma Mini Clinics, said K. Pandiarajan, Minister for Tamil Official Language and Tamil Culture. The State had developed a culture of working with the support of private healthcare facilities to serve the people, Mr. Pandiarajan said. He was speaking at the Tamil Nadu Kidney Research (TANKER) Foundation awards nite on Monday. Nithya S. Krishnan, who delivered the S. Venkatesan and Malathi Venkatesan oration, spoke of the challenges she overcame to become a transplant nephrologist in the U.K. Latha A. Kumaraswami, managing trustee of the Foundation, appealed to Mr. Pandiarajan to help set up a centre of excellence. The Foundation honoured researchers, nephrologists and doctors. E. Therani Rajan, dean of Madras Medical College and Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital, and 23 other members from the institution were honoured for their work during the pandemic. Two of the award-winners, Dr. Nithya Krishnan and B.R. Nammalwar, retired pediatric nephrologist, donated the award money to the Foundation to treat poor patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/working-with-private-healthcare-sector-giving-good-results-minister/article33663868.ece
26 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Ten persons from Tamil Nadu chosen for Padma Shri||Ten personalities from various fields from Tamil Nadu are among the 102 persons chosen for Padma Shri awards this year. The list of persons chosen for Padma Vibhushan, Padma Bhushan and Padma Shri awards was released on Monday. Singer and musician S.P. Balasubrahmanyam, who died in September 2020, has been chosen for Padma Vibhushan, the second-highest civilian award in the country. The 10 persons chosen for Padma Bhushan awards did not include anyone from Tamil Nadu. The following is the list of Padma Shri award-winners and the field in which they have been chosen: P. Subramanian (posthumous), trade and industry; Thiruvengadam Veeraraghavan (posthumous) and K.C. Sivasankaran (posthumous) art and medicine; Solomon Pappaiah, literature and education-journalism; Bombay Jayashri Ramnath, arts; P. Anitha, sports; Sridhar Vembu, trade and industry; Subbu Arumugam, art; Marachi Subburaman, social work; and Pappammal, agriculture.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ten-persons-from-tamil-nadu-chosen-for-padma-shri/article33663474.ece
26 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||SHRC asks State govt. to pay man Rs. 2 lakh for child’s death||The State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) on Monday recommended that the Tamil Nadu government pay compensation of Rs. 2 lakh to the father of the five-year-old girl who died after being administered a vaccine by doctors at the Stanley Medical College Hospital here in May 2018. SHRC member D. Jayachandran had taken took suo motu cognisance of a media report published on May 5, 2018, about a five-year-old girl, D.G. Thanishka, who died after being administered the Mumps-Rubella (MR) vaccine by doctors at the Institute of Social Paediatrics in the hospital. Later, D. Gopi, the father of the child, appeared before the Commission and filed a proof affidavit against the respondents. The complainant claimed that his daughter was healthy before taking the MR vaccine. Around 15 minutes after she was administered the vaccine, she fainted and was taken for emergency treatment. Mr. Gopi said he was not allowed to see his daughter. She was declared dead the following day, he added. The complainant lodged a complaint with the Flower Bazaar police station. Mr. Gopi said his daughter died due to the medical negligence of assistant professor Selvi and the other staff at the hospital. He further sought a compensation of Rs. 10 lakh and suitable action against the respondents. The respondents denied the allegations levelled against them in the complaint and submitted that the MR vaccine was a multi-dose vial. The vaccine was given to 20 other children on the same day. Except for Thanishka, all the other children were healthy and had no complains of any complications, they said. On examination, the five-year-old was healthy and no contraindications due to the vaccination were found, they added. After hearing arguments from both sides and perusing documents from them, the Commission said it was clear from the material on record that the adverse event followed the immunisation. “The respondent has not produced any document to show that the child died due to an individual immune response to the vaccine. Further, the respondent has not produced any document to show the records pertaining from January 2018 to December 2018, though they have vaccinated 428 children with the MR vaccine, except of the deceased child D.G. Thanishka,” the Commission said. Considering the records available on hand and also the report of the Director of Medical Education (DME), Chennai, it was categorically established that the deceased child died after taking the MR vaccination at the government hospital, the Commission added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-asked-to-compensate-man-for-childs-death/article33663537.ece
26 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Reduced syllabus for Class 9 released||The reduced syllabus for Class 9 at State board schools was released by the School Education Department on Monday. Before the schools reopened last week for Classes 10 and 12, the syllabus was released with a nearly 40% reduction. As in the case of the senior classes, there has been no deletion of entire chapters in most subjects for Class 9. Teachers said the exercise was done with the concepts required for Class 10 in mind. “In English and Tamil, the grammar part has been retained since it will be useful for the students. The reduction has been done in a few prose and poem sections,” said M.H. Sharmila, principal, Everwin School. Currently, Class 9 students of private schools are being taught online. The Department is broadcasting lessons on Kalvi TV.  In English and Tamil, the grammar part has been retained M.H. Sharmila Principal, Everwin School.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/reduced-syllabus-for-class-9-released/article33663487.ece
26 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Loco pilot chosen for Anna Gallantry award||J. Suresh, loco pilot of Southern Railway, has been chosen for the Anna Gallantry Award for saving the lives of about 1,500 passengers on board the Madurai-Chennai Vaigai Express near Madurai on November 11. Mr. Suresh saw a huge boulder on the track between Kodaikanal Road and Ambatturai in Madurai division. He applied emergency brakes and stopped the train, thus preventing a possible derailment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/loco-pilot-chosen-for-anna-gallantry-award/article33663899.ece
26 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CS Karnan moves HC again for bail||Former Madras High Court judge C.S. Karnan has once again approached the court seeking bail in a case booked against him for having made vituperative and filthy comments against sitting as well as retired judges in a series of videos shared widely on social media. He had withdrawn a similar petition early this month. In his present petition, the former judge said he regrets for not having undergone mental health examination as ordered by the Supreme Court before sentencing him to six months of imprisonment for contempt in 2017. Stating that he had not been in stable mind since then, the former judge said he “has been seriously affected and has been doing certain acts unknowingly and in regrettable fashion.” He blamed his “unstable and depressive mind” for having released the contentious videos. “The petitioner submits that he would render unconditional apologies to those who were offended by the videos but in the present condition of his mind, he has been asked to avoid. The petitioner further submits that he is not making this statement to wriggle out of any proceedings,” his petition read. Stating that he had been in prison since December 2, the former judge said he was tested positive for COVID-19 during judicial custody. He also brought it to the notice of the court that his brother C.S. Thiruvalluvar (55), serving as Sub Inspector of Police in Ambattur here, had died due to COVID-19 in November 2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ex-judge-moves-hc-again-for-bail/article33663890.ece
26 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Sasikala will be released tomorrow based on medical advice’||Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK) general secretary T.T.V. Dhinakaran on Monday, in a tweet, stated that his aunt and aide of former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa, V.K. Sasikala, would be set free [from a Bengaluru jail] on January 27. As she was getting treatment at a Bengaluru hospital for COVID-19 and her heath was improving, the date of her discharge would be announced on getting the medical advice, Mr. Dhinakaran added. Consequent to the Supreme Court upholding, in February 2017, the conviction by a trial court in a disproportionate assets case that originally involved Jayalalithaa, Sasikala and two others had to serve a four-year imprisonment. The Supreme Court , which had set aside the acquittal by the Karnataka High Court, had held that appeals filed by Karnataka government and others against Jayalalithaa had abated following her death in December 2016.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sasikala-will-be-released-tomorrow/article33663491.ece
26 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Firm begins work for supplying piped gas in T.N.||AG & P, a liquefied natural gas (LNG) and gas logistics company has started the spade work to supply natural gas in Kancheepuram, Chengalpattu, Ramanathapuram, Vellore, Ranipet and Tirupattur geographical areas in the State as part of the city gas distribution (CGD) network. First station It recently opened its first natural gas station in Ramanathapuram under its brand AG&P Pratham and plans to open 30 compressed natural gas (CNG) stations by the year-end. “The station will get gas supplies from GAIL’s gas treatment facility and distribute to CNG stations in the district. We have begun pipeline laying work in Ramanathapuram and hope to begin domestic supplies before the end of the calendar year,” said Manish Goswami, chief operations officer of the company for Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh and Rajasthan. In Ramanathapuram, the company aims to provide 41,000 connections and start 11 CNG stations; it has also launched two CNG outlets. The company would also ensure supplies to Rameswaram island via pipeline. As far as Kancheepuram is concerned, the detailed feasibility report is ready and the company aims to provide 11 lakh connections and also install 111 CNG stations. “We are in talks with SIPCOT for land and we will be taking gas from the Indian Oil Corporation's pipeline. Industries in the Oragadam and Sriperumbudur areas would be our target,” he added. Land acquired In Vellore, lands have been purchased for LNG stations and the first stations would be commissioned by October, he said. Indian Oil Corporation is presently carrying out work to lay pipelines for supply of natural gas in the Coimbatore and Salem geographical areas. Torrent Gas is also set to begin physical work in Chennai, Nagapattinam and Karaikal areas. It recently launched CNG stations in Nagapattinam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/firm-begins-work-for-piped-gas-supply-in-tn/article33663879.ece
26 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Four suspended for check dam breach||The State government on Monday ordered suspension of four engineers of the Water Resources Department in the Public Works Department (PWD) in the wake of breach in a check dam in Panruti taluk of Cuddalore district on Saturday. Chief Engineer (Chennai region), K. Asokan; Superintending Engineer, Pennaiyar basin circle, Tiruvannvamalai, N. Suresh; Executive Engineer (Lower Pennaiyar basin division), Villupuram, A. Jawahar and Assistant Executive Engineer (Lower Pennaiyar basin sub-division), Tindivanam, B. Sumathi were suspended from service with immediate effect, through orders issued by Principal Secretary of PWD K. Manivasan. The suspension had been ordered as the government was contemplating instituting an inquiry against officials for “lapses in the construction” of the Rs. 25.35 crore check dam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chief-engineer-three-others-suspended-for-check-dam-breach/article33663515.ece
26 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||President’s Medal for fireman who lost his life||The President's Fire Service Medal for gallantry has been announced to a fireman who lost his life while attempting to rescue two labourers in Perambalur district. R. Rajkumar, 36, died of suffocation while attempting to rescue two labourers who were trapped inside a newly dug well at Selliampalayam in Perambalur district in July last. The State government has already given Rs. 10 lakh as solatium to the family. The officers and staff of the Fire and Rescue Services collected and gave Rs. 44.42 lakh to the family. The Union Ministry of Home Affairs on Monday, on the eve of Republic Day, announced the names of the fire service, home guards and civil defence personnel who will be awarded by the President.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/presidents-medal-for-fireman-who-lost-his-life/article33663455.ece
26 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Vaccination likely to halt on Sundays||The Health Department is reviewing its COVID-19 vaccination schedule and considering revising its strategy, since it is expected to be a long-term exercise. Among the revisions that are being considered is halting the vaccination on Sundays. Senior health officials said on two Sundays, the session sites were open, but the attendance was minimal. On one Sunday, it was 3,000-odd, and the other Sunday, around 2,500 people turned up. “There seems to be a reluctance to come forward on Sundays for vaccination. Also, with this weekend, we will be conducting the pulse polio campaign, so we decided to suspend the COVID-19 vaccination for January 31. There is also a proposal to conduct the vaccination session for six days a week, instead of the seven days we are doing now,” Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan said. “The vaccination has been steady in Tamil Nadu. People are coming slowly... Our health leaders have also taken the vaccines in order to infuse confidence... We, however, need to periodically review our strategy and re-strategise, if necessary,” he added. “Since there are dedicated staff attached to the session sites, and the flow of people is not significant on Sundays, we are considering giving a day’s break,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-vaccination-likely-on-sundays/article33663886.ece
26 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Man held for raping minor||A 26-year-old man was arrested on the charge of raping a 14-year-old girl in Virugambakkam on Monday. According to officials in the All-Woman Police Station, Vadapalani, the victim was studying in Class 9. The accused, Vicky alias Vignesh, 26, gagged the victim while she was drawing kolam in front of her house on Friday and forcibly took her to his house, where he raped her. It took the police three days to arrest Vignesh as he had gone into hiding. The police said Vignesh had raped the girl four times in the past. He has been booked under the Pocso Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-held-for-raping-minor/article33663869.ece
26 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Water tanker operators put off strike||Water tanker owners have deferred the strike planned on Monday following talks with senior officials of the Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board (CMWSSB). According to office-bearers of the Chennai Metrowater Tanker Contractors Association, the strike has been postponed by a few days as discussions were under way to meet their demands. At present, about 650 tankers are being operated for water supply daily, including those on payment. Rising fuel cost Association members said diesel price had gone up by Rs. 7 a litre since mid-November last year. However, the tankers were being operated at old rates. Though the tender process was completed for renewing the contract, they had not been issued fresh work orders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-tanker-operators-put-off-strike/article33663874.ece
26 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Union Minister opens NCLAT Chennai Bench||Union Minister for Finance and Corporate Affairs Nirmala Sitharaman on Monday virtually inaugurated the Chennai Bench of the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal (NCLAT). This will be the second NCLAT Bench in the country, after the Principal Bench in New Delhi. The Chennai Bench, located at Ezhilagam Annexe, Chepauk, was supposed to function from last year, but was held up by the COVID-19 pandemic. The NCLAT has jurisdiction over matters under the Companies Act, the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code and the Competition Commission of India. The Chennai Bench started hearing cases virtually from Monday. Fresh appeals against the orders of the Benches of the tribunal having jurisdiction in Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana and the Union Territories of Lakshadweep and Puducherry will have to be filed before the Chennai Bench. “The southern States normally do have this feeling that to seek justice they travel too far. Because access to justice in terms of physical access has always been a challenge to the southern States, which are so far and distantly placed, like the way the northeastern States feel from Delhi,” Ms. Sitharaman said in her address. She said establishing the second Bench to address the needs of the southern States and the Union Territories of Lakshadweep and Puducherry was a major step. Justice Bansi Lal Bhat, acting Chairperson, NCLAT; Rajesh Verma, Secretary, Ministry of Corporate Affairs; and Justice Venugopal M, judicial member, and Balvinder Singh, technical member of the NCLAT Chennai Bench, were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/union-minister-opens-nclat-chennai-bench/article33663880.ece
26 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Six arrested for robbery||Six persons, who allegedly waylaid a bar supervisor and robbed him of Rs. 7.8 lakh in the Seiyur police station limits in Chengalpattu district, were arrested on Sunday. The police recovered the money from them. The police said that Suresh Kumar, 46, a bar supervisor of TASMAC in Palur, Madhuranthakam, and his friend Shankar, 30 were returning home in Irumbedu village, carrying the day’s collection on January 17. They were intercepted by four people near Ammanur and attacked with machetes. The gang fled after robbing Mr. Kumar. Mr. Kumar and Mr. Shankar were later admitted to the Chengalpattu Government Hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/six-arrested-for-robbery/article33663885.ece
26 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Early hearing in Veda Nilayam case||The Madras High Court on Monday agreed to hear on January 27, instead of February 4, the writ petitions filed by former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa’s nephew J. Deepak and niece J. Deepa challenging the acquisition of her Poes Garden residence, Veda Nilayam, for conversion into a government memorial. Justice N. Seshasayee acceded to a request made by Mr. Deepak’s counsel S.L. Sudarsanam since there was reportedly a plan to inaugurate the memorial on January 28, a day after inaugurating Jayalalithaa’s mausoleum at the Marina beach. The judge made it clear that he would hear the case only on the plea for interim orders. Advocate-General Vijay Narayan and Special Government Pleader E. Manoharan told the court that the government was fully entitled to convert the residence into a memorial since it had been acquired in accordance with law after depositing the compensation amount of Rs. 67.9 crore before the City Civil Court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/early-hearing-in-veda-nilayam-case/article33663887.ece
26 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Probe against DMK MP over, says CB-CID||The Crime Branch-Criminal Investigation Department (CB-CID) on Monday informed the Madras High Court of having completed the investigation in a case against DMK MP S. Jagathrakshakan for alleged forgery in purchase of shares of Chrome Leather Company Private Limited in 1995. Appearing before Justice N. Sathish Kumar, Advocate General Vijay Narayan and State Public Prosecutor A. Natarajan submitted that even a draft chargesheet was ready in the case. They sought permission of the court to file it before the judicial magistrate concerned in accordance with the Code of Criminal Procedure (Cr.PC). The submissions were made during the hearing of a petition filed by the MP last year to quash the First Information Report (FIR) on the basis of a complaint lodged in 2007. The police had initially closed the complaint after terming it as a mistake of fact. However, in 2013, the CB-CID decided to reopen the case for further investigation. A judicial magistrate in Chengalpattu refused permission. Hence, the investigating agency preferred a revision petition and obtained permission from an additional sessions court in 2016. Thereafter, the FIR was assigned a new number and the matter was taken up for further investigation. When the MP was summoned for inquiry last year, he moved the High Court to quash the FIR. Passing interim orders in the quash petition on August 24, Justice Kumar restrained the CB-CID from arresting the MP. The judge, however, directed him to cooperate with the investigating agency probing the case. After hearing both sides, the judge asked the A-G and the SPP to find out whether the CB-CID would be agreeable to share a copy of the chargesheet with the petitioner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/probe-against-dmk-mp-over-says-cb-cid/article33663889.ece
26 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Travel agent attacks woman lawyer||A 50-year-old spurned man, who slashed a 28-year-old lawyer in her neck and hand with a knife, was arrested on Monday after he surrendered at the Kilpauk police station. The police said Karimullah, 50, a native of Chittoor in Andhra Pradesh, was running a travel agency and employed a woman from Ayanavaram in 2016. Karimullah, who was divorced, paid her college fees and helped her get a law degree. Soon after setting up her practice, the woman ignored him. On Monday, Karimullah asked her to meet him. When she reached the spot on E.V.R. Road, he attacked her with a knife. Later, he surrendered before the police. The victim was admitted to a private hospital, where she received 28 stitches for her wounds. Karimullah has been charged with attempt to murder.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/travel-agent-attacks-woman-lawyer/article33663864.ece
26 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC reserves verdict on temple work||The Madras High Court on Monday reserved its verdict on a suo motu public interest litigation (PIL) petition taken up by the court in 2015 for ensuring that heritage temples spread across the State were conserved well. Justices R. Mahadevan and P.D. Audikesavalu deferred their verdict after hearing activists Rangarajan Narasimhan, R. Venkataraman and others in the matter. The senior judge made it clear that they would deal with various aspects, including the board of trustees for every temple.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-reserves-verdict-on-temple-work/article33663876.ece
26 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CPI(M) seeks nod for tractor rally||CPI(M) State secretary K. Balakrishnan has written to the Tamil Nadu DGP over permission being denied for tractor and bike rallies planned by farmers and workers on January 26. He said the decision was not correct, especially when permission had been given for tractor rallies in Delhi and Bengaluru. He urged the DGP to permit the rally across the State and provide adequate security.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cpim-seeks-nod-for-tractor-rally/article33663870.ece
26 January 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Police take steps to reduce traffic congestion on Avinashi Road||The Coimbatore City Police have deployed extra strength of police to manage the traffic congestion on parts of Avinashi Road where works of the elevated corridor from Uppilipalayam to Goldwins are in progress. In addition to the police personnel who were regularly deployed at major junctions, City Police Commissioner Sumit Sharan had allotted an additional strength of 20 personnel, said Deputy Commissioner of Police (Traffic) R. Mutharasu. At present, construction works are progressing on the stretch from Coimbatore Medical College junction to Goldwins. The works are currently causing traffic congestion from Hope College to Thottipalayam Pirivu during peak hours. “Based on our request, sides of the road have been levelled to increase motorable space. The police have requested the Coimbatore Corporation to remove bus shelters to increase the road space,” said Mr. Mutharasu. The police in consultation with the Highways Department were also thinking of traffic diversions to aid the works and reduce congestion. The plan was to divert traffic from Avinashi Road to Tiruchi Road via Kamarajar Road from Hope College junction. However, this could be done only after the completion of the flyover works on Tiruchi Road. The diversion would be essential when construction works started from Hope College junction towards Uppilipalayam. Mr. Mutharasu said the ‘T’-shaped structures holding traffic signals would also be removed. Instead, vertical poles holding traffic signals were likely to be installed on the side of the road at major junctions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-take-steps-to-reduce-traffic-congestion-on-avinashi-road/article33663904.ece
26 January 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Security tightened for Republic Day||The police tightened security across Coimbatore district from Monday in view of the Republic Day. A total of 2,000 police personnel were deployed in Coimbatore city and rural to strengthen surveillance and vigil. The bomb detection and disposal squad and the dog squad conducted security checks at VOC Grounds where the Republic Day parade will be held on Tuesday morning. Special checks were also conducted in the railway station, the airport and bus stands at Gandhipuram. The police have been deployed for the security of other vital installations, statues of prominent leaders and places of worship across the district. Vehicle checks were conducted at 12 permanent check posts on the borders of Coimbatore city and rural police limits. The city police also set up 14 additional check points for vehicle checks. The police also checked details of occupants in lodges and hotels in the city and rural.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/security-tightened-for-republic-day/article33663906.ece
26 January 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Policeman robbed of mobile phone||A policeman attached to the fourth battalion of Tamil Nadu Special Police was robbed of his mobile phone by two men on Puttuvikki road late on Sunday. The duo waylaid police constable Ashokan of Ganapathy when he was going home with his wife and child around 9.40 p.m. and robbed him of his phone Though police patrol teams conducted searches after Mr. Ashokan alerted the control room, they could not trace the robbers. In a separate incident, the public caught a 31-year-old man who snatched the mobile phone of a person on Sungam – Ukkadam bypass on Monday. The police arrested S. Nizharuddin (31) of Ukkadam. His accomplice Surya of Pullukadu escaped. Four injured in crude bomb blast Four persons from Periyanaickenpalayam were injured after a crude explosive which they were making went off on Monday afternoon. P. Manimalan (50), K. Raja (35), S. Ramarasu (30) and S. Poonthirai (25), all residents of Nandhini colony at Jothipuram near Press Colony, were injured in the incident. The police said the accident took place at Manimalan’s house when the men belonging to a nomadic group were making the crude explosive, known as ‘avittukai’ that was used to hunt wild animals. They suffered injuries from the pellets of the bomb and were admitted to Coimbatore Medical College Hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/policeman-robbed-of-mobile-phone/article33663522.ece
26 January 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Action sought against persons who attempted to outrage women’s modesty||Activist A.K. Periyar Mani has urged the district administration to initiate action against four persons, who attempted to outrage the modesty of women in Panapatti village, and the panchayat president’s husband who tried to shield them. In his petition submitted at the weekly grievances redress meet on Monday, he said four persons from the village attempted to take videos of women who went out to attend nature’s call on January 17. The women and members of the 250-odd Dalit communities were forced to relieve themselves in the open as there were no individual house-hold or community toilets. On seeing them, the women raised an alarm, rushed home and complained to their family members. As the community leaders were going to the Negamam police station to lodge a complaint against the youth, panchayat president’s husband Venkatesh stopped them and attempted to broker a truce the next day. Mr. Mani alleged that on January 18, at the village panchayat office, Venkatesh threatened the women and their family against lodging a complaint and coerced them into signing on blank papers. The women and their family were scared to approach the police and therefore the district administration should look into the matter, he demanded. ‘Repair Ambedkar’s statue’ C. Rajan of People’s Liberation Front has sought the district administration’s help in repairing Ambedkar’s statue on the Food Corporation of India premises in Tatabad. In his petition, he had said it was the only statue for Ambedkar in Coimbatore, that leaders of various political parties garlanded it on Ambedkar’s birth anniversary on April 14 and that it was damaged. Therefore, the administration should take steps to repair the statue soon. Car festivals in temples Hindu Democratic Front has appealed to the State government to allow car festivals in temples under the HR&CE Department control. In a petition, the outfit said the Department could enforce COVID-19 safety protocols and allow a very few persons and officials to supervise the festivals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/action-sought-against-persons-who-attempted-to-outrage-womens-modesty/article33663901.ece
26 January 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Warrant against three men who supplied arms parts to LTTE||The sixth judicial magistrate court has issued non-bailable warrants against three men, including two Sri Lankan nationals, for smuggling of arms parts for the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE) in 1989. The ‘Q’ Branch, Coimbatore city, said in a release the warrants were issued against A. Ravichandran of Kalikkanaickenpalayam and Sri Lankan nationals Kiliyan alias Kiliyannan and Narenthiran alias Palaniappan, who worked for the LTTE. Ravichandran made the arms parts at his lathe at Kalikkanaickenpalayam. Kiliyan and Narenthiran supplied these to the LTTE. Ravichandran was arrested in 1989 and released on bail later. But, he remained at large since then. The Sri Lankan nationals were not arrested. As per the warrants issued, the three men have to appear before the court on March 1, 2021. People who have information about the three men are requested to share it with Q Branch at 0422-2309000.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/warrant-against-three-men-who-supplied-arms-parts-to-ltte/article33663541.ece
26 January 2021||Dharmapuri,TAMIL NADU||MP demands speedy implementation of Morappur-Dharmapuri railway project||Dharmapuri MP S.Senthil Kumar has sought speedy implementation of the Morappur-Dharmapuri railway line project that was announced before the last Lok Sabha elections. In a petition to the General Manager of Southern Railway, John Thomas, Dr. Senthil Kumar said the new railway line project was announced in the Central budget in 2016-17, and was subsequently sanctioned Rs. 358.95 crore in February 2019, prior to the election. The foundation for the project was also laid by Raiway Minister Piyus Goyal. In the petition, the MP has said, the 36-km project, according to the Ministry entails 28 km. to be laid on an old alignment, and remaining 8 km. along a new alignment. The land for the same entails acquisition of over 91.39 acres. According to Dr. Senthil Kumar, he had requested the District Collector to expedite the land acquisition for the 8 km new alignment as that stretch of the old alignment was developed into residential area. Dr. Senthil Kumar also demanded stoppage of Chennai –Thiruvanathapuram Superfast express between Salem and Jolarpet junction in Morappur; luggage booking at Bommidi railway station, restoration of Mettur-Chennai train route and extension of Salem-Chennai train via Jolarpet upto Salem.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mp-demands-speedy-implementation-of-morappur-dharmapuri-railway-project/article33663512.ece
26 January 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Erode central bus terminus to be modernised at Rs. 29.50 crore||School Education Minister K.A. Sengottaiyan on Monday laid the foundation for the modernisation of the Corporation’s Central Bus Terminus here at Rs. 29.50 crore. Under the Smart City Mission projects, the work will be carried out in three packages - modernisation works at Rs. 14.70 crore, additional parking facilities and new mini bus shelter at Rs. 5.50 crore and improvement works at Rs. 9.30 crore. Modernisation works include realigning the bus bays to create more space, modifying the entry and exit ways, granite flooring, installing solar lights on the premises, modern seating arrangements for commuters. Construction of compound walls and front elevation will be part of the improvement works. The existing two-wheeler parking stand near the Erode Town Traffic Police Station will be demolished and an underground parking system will be established and a mini bus stand will come on it. Mofussil buses, town buses and minibuses will have separate entry points and the works are expected to be completed in 18 months. Collector C. Kathiravan, MLA K.S. Thennarasu (Erode East), Superintendent of Police P. Thangadurai, Corporation Commissioner M. Elangovan and other officials were present during the ceremony.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/erode-central-bus-terminus-to-be-modernised-at-rs-2950-crore/article33663526.ece
26 January 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||National Voters’ Day pledge administered to Erode District Collectorate staff||Administering voters’ pledge to government staff, distribution of Electoral Photo Identity Card (EPIC) to new electors and conduct of marathon marked the 11th National Voters’ Day in the district here on Monday. To mark the foundation day of Election of Commission of India on January 25, 1950, the day is observed every year since 2011, to encourage, facilitate and maximise enrolment of first time voters to participate in the electoral process. The current year’s theme is “Making Our Voters Empowered, Vigilant, Safe and Informed.” Students took out a marathon from Thindal that was flagged off by District Election Officer and Collector C. Kathiravan and District Revenue Officer S. Kavitha. Later, at a function held at the Collectorate, Mr. Kathiravan administered the voters’ day pledge to the Collectorate staff, differently-abled persons and the public. He distributed EPIC to 12 new electors who had recently enrolled their names. Later, he distributed appreciation certificates to six nurses from the Perundurai Government Erode Medical College and Hospital who participated in the drawing competition. Also, certificates were distributed to the participants of the marathon and also to best polling station officers in all the eight Assembly constituencies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/national-voters-day-pledge-administered-to-erode-district-collectorate-staff/article33663521.ece
26 January 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||‘CM to decide on restarting Classes 9 & 11’||A decision on reopening schools for Classes 9 and 11 in February will be taken by Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, School Education Minister K.A. Sengottaiyan said in Erode on Monday. Addressing mediapersons after laying the foundation stone for renovating the Corporation’s Central Bus Terminus, the Minister said the School Education Department was in the process of holding discussions with experts and parents on reopening schools for these two classes. “The outcome of the discussion will be discussed with the Chief Minister,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-to-decide-on-restarting-classes-9-11/article33663888.ece
26 January 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||‘CM will decide on reopening schools for classes 9 and 11’||A decision on reopening schools for classes 9 and 11 in February will be taken by Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, School Education Minister K.A. Sengottaiyan said here on Monday. The Minister told presspersons that the School Education Department was discussing the issue with educationalists and parents. “The outcome of the discussion will be discussed with the Chief Minister, who will take a final call”, he added. Asked about students and teachers who tested positive for COVID-19 after schools reopened for Classes 10 and 12 on January 19, especially the case of a student in Salem, Mr. Sengottaiyan claimed that no cases were reported so far in the State. “Only two teachers have been tested for COVID-19 and the laboratory results are awaited”, he said. Asked whether students and teachers would be given priority in vaccination, he said common people would be vaccinated only in the third phase.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-will-decide-on-reopening-schools-for-classes-9-and-11/article33663542.ece
26 January 2021||KALLAKURICHI,TAMIL NADU||Stalin making tall claims to come to power: Palaniswami||Chief Minister and AIADMK co-coordinator Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Monday accused DMK president M.K. Stalin of trying to hoodwink the people by making tall claims to come to power. He was addressing a meeting organised to pay homage to the Tamil martyrs, marking the anniversary of the anti-Hindi agitation, at Ulundurpet in Kallakurichi district. Mr. Palaniswami said Mr. Stalin had conducted Gram Sabha meetings before the 2019 Lok Sabha election and received petitions. “People are now keen on knowing what had happened to the petitions the DMK had received from people with the promise to redress their grievances. To whom did he submit the petitions or did he take any step to redress their grievances,” he asked, questioning the very purpose of these meetings. Mr. Palaniswami said the State government would soon roll out a special public grievances redress system. A dry run of the system was now under way. As the details appeared to have leaked during the trial, the DMK leader copied the idea. The Chief Minister said that Mr. Stalin was indulging in wishful thinking that the DMK would return to power. “Initially Mr. Stalin had said his party would win in all 234 constituencies. A few days later, he said it would win 200 seats. The DMK president would bring the number further down in the coming days, and the party would be left with a mere 34 seats,” he said. He asked the DMK MPs what they had done for the development of the State. “What issues of Tamil Nadu had they highlighted in Parliament,” he asked. The DMK was not a political party but a corporate company, with Mr. Stalin playing the role of chairman and other members of his family that of board members,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stalin-making-tall-claims-to-come-to-power-palaniswami/article33663483.ece
26 January 2021||KALLAKURICHI,TAMIL NADU||Admissions in Kallakurichi medical college likely from current year||The Government Kallakurichi Medical College and Hospital under construction at Siruvangur near here may start MBBS admissions from the current academic year. The initial intake of the college will be 150 students. “The construction of the academic block, hospital and hostel block is progressing at a fast pace to ensure admissions. About 60% of the structure has been completed,” Kallakurichi Collector Kiran Gurrala told The Hindu . Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami laid the foundation stone for the Rs. 381.76 crore project in July 2020. The college is coming up on 20.58 acres at Siruvangur near here. According to sources, Rs. 132.5 crore had been allocated for the college buildings, Rs. 182.79 crore for the hospital block and Rs. 66.47 crore for the hostels and staff quarters. “The existing Government Arts College building in Siruvangur has been converted into a 200-bed hospital with oxygen lines. The facilities have been improved to comply with the basic minimum standards prescribed by the Medical Council of India,” Mr. Gurrala said. Steps had been initiated for the recruitment of faculty, an official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/admissions-in-kallakurichi-medical-college-likely-from-current-year/article33664096.ece
26 January 2021||KARUR,TAMIL NADU||Why didn’t PM probe Balakot strike news leak: Rahul||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Monday wondered why Prime Minister Narendra Modi had not ordered any inquiry to find out how a journalist got prior information about India’s air strike in Pakistan’s Balakot. In a reference to the leaked WhatsApp conversation of Republic TV promoter Arnab Goswami, he said that only the Prime Minister, the Home Minister, the Defence Minister, the National Security Adviser and the Forward Defence General knew of the mission. Even the pilots who were tasked with the operation did not know it until the launch. The journalist knew the information three days before the strike. The Official Secrets Act had been breached by one of the five persons, he said. “My question is simple. Why is that there is no inquiry to find out who leaked the information. If it is not the Prime Minister, why has he not ordered an inquiry into the treason that has taken place. One of these five people has put the Indian Air Force and the nation at risk. I want to find out who is that? The Prime Minister should have found out who is that and why he has not done it. The only reason he has not done it is that he himself is involved in leaking the secret information,” Mr. Gandhi told reporters at Aravakurichi during his campaign in Karur district. Mr. Gandhi said the Congress would accept DMK president M.K. Stalin as the chief ministerial candidate. The Congress-DMK alliance would not allow the RSS ideology to take root in Tamil Nadu, he said. Addressing a series of road-side meetings in Karur district, Mr. Gandhi, who was on a three-day visit to the State in the run-up to the Assembly election, said Prime Minister Narendra Modi had been “remote-controlling” the AIADMK government which had been facing a number of corruption charges. Mr. Modi had been using the Central Bureau of Investigation and the Enforcement Directorate as a tool to destabilise the governments in the Opposition-ruled States, but not in Tamil Nadu. “What is the Chief Minister giving in exchange for the favour. If Mr. Modi feels that he has a remote control, the people of the State will remove the battery from his remote and throw the AIADMK government out in the ensuing election,” he said. The next government, he said, would work for the welfare of farmers, weavers, fishermen, labourers and traders. Listening to the grievances of farmers at Vangal near here, the Congress MP said that despite the spirited agitation by farmers in New Delhi, the Central government had failed to listen to their genuine grievances against the new farm laws.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/why-didnt-pm-probe-balakot-strike-news-leak-rahul/article33663486.ece
26 January 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||No gram sabha meetings today||Gram sabha meetings will not be conducted on Republic Day in view of COVID-19 precautionary measures, according to an administration release.   The State government had issued a directive to the district collectors not to conduct the gram sabhas. Gram sabhas are held four times a year on Gandhi Jayanthi (October 2), Labour Day (May 1), Independence Day (August 15) and on Republic Day (January 26).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-gram-sabha-meetings-today/article33663524.ece
26 January 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Implement irrigation projects in Dharmapuri, Krishnagiri: KMDK||Members of the Kongunadu Makkal Desiya Katchi (KMDK) led by the party leader and State general secretary E.R.Easwaran staged a protest on a raft of demands near Anna statue here on Monday. The party demanded implementation of various irrigation projects that have been in the pipeline for long and sought the repeal of the three new farm laws. They also called for the implementation of Thumbalhalli canal scheme and Vaanimuttu irrigation scheme. Mr. Easwaran said that Dharmapuri and Krishnagiri districts that depended on farming were drought ridden and were in dire need of irrigation schemes to making farming viable. The youth of the two districts were pushed out of the district in search of employment. According to Mr.Easwaran, there was distress migration due to water scarcity making farming difficult. There were many canals that needed interlinking, which will enhance water availability for farmers. He also alleged that there was partisan implementation of water schemes, where some areas represented by the ruling party received water, while the others did not. The party also slammed the inordinate delay in the implementation of Krishnagiri-Tindivanam national highway four-lane project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/implement-irrigation-projects-in-dharmapuri-krishnagiri-kmdk/article33663529.ece
26 January 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Provide us all alternative house sites before eviction’||Scores of residents of Thevar Nagar and Netaji Nagar in Vandiyur thronged the Collectorate here on Monday, seeking alternative housing accommodation as Public Works Department officials have proposed to evict people in about 300 dwelling units along the Vaigai bank. Claiming that they had been living along the northern riverbank for nearly four decades, they said that it was former Chief Minister M.G. Ramachandran who had converted their thatched-roof huts into tiled-roof houses through Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board. Besides, all facilities like primary health centre, noon-meal centre, electricity connection, cement road, toilet facility, ration card and Aadhaar card were provided to them one after the other over the years. Similarly, the residents were paying property tax till date, the petitioners said. They had sought pattas for their lands in 2007. However, in 2018 the PWD officials and Revenue Department officials proposed to evict them. The residents claimed that they belonged to the lower economic stratum and they did not have the wherewithal to find alternative housing accommodation. Stating that the previous Collector had recommended to the officials for providing them house sites in Sakkimangalam, the petitioners complained that no action had been taken so far on this issue. They appealed to Collector T. Anbalagan to provide house sites to them so that they could move from Vandiyur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/provide-us-all-alternative-house-sites-before-eviction/article33664011.ece
26 January 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||No pollution in Sellur tank, High Court informed||After the State government on Monday informed the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court that a substantial portion of water hyacinth had been removed from the Vaigai, the court directed the authorities to take steps to remove the growth from the remaining portion of the tank in two weeks. A Division Bench of Justices M.M. Sundresh and S. Ananthi was also informed by the State that there was no contamination of water in Sellur tank and no polluted water got mixed with the water in the tank. The court was hearing the public interest litigation petition filed by M. Muthuselvam of Madurai who sought a direction to the State to remove water hyacinth from the Vaigai and ascertain the cause of froth and foam in Sellur tank.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-pollution-in-sellur-tank-high-court-informed/article33664009.ece
26 January 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Check possibility of excavation at Uzhakudi’||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Monday directed the Central and the State governments to inspect a site in Uzhakudi village in Thoothukudi district to ascertain if an archaeological excavation could be carried out there and file a report before it. A Division Bench of Justices M.M. Sundresh and S. Ananthi sought the response from the Centre and the State on a public interest litigation petition filed by S. Kamaraj of Thoothukudi district who claimed that the site was of historical importance. He said that Uzhakudi was situated on the eastern bank of the Thamirabarani and was located 38 km away from Thoothukudi. He said that megalithic stones were discovered in a hill abutting the village by local residents. The petitioner claimed that menhirs were erected in memory of some kings and chieftains. He said that the stones were 13 feet tall and could date back to 1000 BC. The site was close to the other famous archaeological sites like Adichanallur, Sivagalai and Korkai, and the authorities concerned must conduct an archaeological excavation at the site and declare Uzhakudi a protected area, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/check-possibility-of-excavation-at-uzhakudi/article33663494.ece
26 January 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Inspect Uzhakudi and file report: HC||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Monday directed the Centre and the State to inspect a site in Uzhakudi village in Thoothukudi district to ascertain if an archaeological excavation could be carried out, and file a report before the court. A Division Bench of Justices M.M. Sundresh and S. Ananthi sought a response on a public interest litigation petition filed by S. Kamaraj of Thoothukudi district, who claimed that the site was of historical importance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/inspect-uzhakudi-and-file-report-hc/article33663875.ece
26 January 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Voters’ Day observed||Stressing the need for casting votes without fail, Collector T. Anbalagan said that it was an important part of the nation-building exercise. He was addressing students who were newly registered as voters at an event held as part of the National Voters’ day at Lady Doak College here on Monday in collaboration with the Collectorate and Madurai Corporation. The Collector told the students not to consider the election day as holiday and urged them to cast their votes without fail. It was a collective responsibility, he said. He administered voters' pledge at the event. The Principal and Secretary of Lady Doak College Christianna Singh welcomed the gathering.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/voters-day-observed/article33664013.ece
26 January 2021||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Further drop in egg price in Namakkal||The farm gate price of egg has dropped to Rs. 3.80, lowest in the recent times, following the bird flu scare in various parts of the country. The Namakkal chapter of National Egg Coordination Committee has fixed the farm gate price at Rs. 380 for 100 eggs. On January 23, the price of an egg was Rs. 4.05. The farm gate price for 100 eggs was Rs. 485 in the start of the month and it gradually reduced following reports on bird flu. On January 21, the farm gate price was Rs. 425, and two days later it was Rs. 405. NECC authorities here said that the bird flu scare and the resultant reduction in consumption of eggs in some north Indian States had affected the egg price. Chairman of NECC Namakkal P.Selvaraj said, “certain States in north India have restricted sale of poultry products due to bird flu scare and it has affected the prices. After transportation and other charges, a poultry farmer may only get Rs. 3.20 per egg.” He added that the rates were expected to improve in the upcoming weeks. Vangili Subramanian, president, Tamil Nadu Egg Marketing Society, said that with Thai Poosam round the corner, the consumption has reduced in the State as well. Officials from the Animal Husbandry Department said that all farms in the district have been advised to adopt biosafety measures to prevent spread of bird flu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/further-drop-in-egg-price-in-namakkal/article33663545.ece
26 January 2021||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Amma mini clinic opened||Minister for Electricity P.Thangamani inaugurated a Amma mini clinic at Karaikuruchi near Pudhuchitram here on Monday. Mr.Thangamani told reporters that 53 Amma mini clinics and six mobile clinics have been allotted for Namakkal and 18 clinics have been opened till date. The Minister said that all the clinics would be opened by January 30. On appointment of gangmen in Tangedco, Mr.Thangamani said that he had conducted discussions with Trade Unions and they have agreed to withdraw the case in Madras High Court, after which the hiring of 10,000 gangmen could be completed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/amma-mini-clinic-opened/article33663530.ece
26 January 2021||NEW DELHI,TAMIL NADU||‘T.N. using obsolete gate operation schedule’||The Kerala government highlighted in the Supreme Court the Supervisory Committee for Mullaperiyar dam’s inability to prepare and implement the gate operation schedule for flood management as well as the instrumentation scheme of the dam. Kerala said Tamil Nadu, as a result, was still adopting an “obsolete” gate operation schedule, which dates back to 1939. In its affidavit, Kerala informed the court that a Central Water Commission (CWC) inspection report had said 70% of the installed instruments for monitoring the safety and health of the dam were not working properly. Also, Tamil Nadu was yet to install the two seismoaccelerographs recommended to monitor the seismic behaviour of the dam. A Bench, led by Justice A.M. Khanwilkar, on Monday gave Tamil Nadu government lawyer, advocate G. Umapathy, two weeks to submit a response to the affidavit. ‘Not appropriate’ “The absence of a gate operation schedule at Mullaperiyar reservoir creates an element of uncertainty in the very management of the entire Periyar system by Kerala during the recent floods... The gate operation schedule and rule curves of the dam are very essential for planning disaster management and ensuring the safety of the people living downstream. It is the very reason for Kerala to insist that the supervisory committee finalise the schedule without further delay, considering the lurking danger of such moderate flash floods which occur frequently,” Kerala said in its affidavit. With the onset of the monsoon drawing close, Kerala referred to a CWC Hydrology directorate report of 2014 that had not approved of a draft spillway gate operation schedule prepared by Tamil Nadu. “The suggested operation till reservoir level rises to +140 ft during monsoon and +140 ft during other period is not appropriate. During flood event, it would be difficult to contain the floods at +142 ft if no operation is carried out till 140 ft level as proposed,” the CWC had said. Kerala noted how Tamil Nadu had delayed a review of the gate operation schedule, saying it needed rainfall data from the Mullaikodi rain gauge station. Kerala said Tamil Nadu had not even shared with it the draft schedule and rule curves submitted to the CWC. “A single rain gauge station at Mullaikodi does not reflect the actual rainfall of the entire catchment and the above rain gauge data is not going to yield any qualitative improvement to the operation schedule,” Kerala said. Kerala said its work establishing an inflow forecasting system in the catchment area of the dam was progressing. “The work on the installation of the automatic weather station and real-time rain gauges in the catchment area is progressing,” it said. In October last, the Tamil Nadu government had rebutted allegations made in the Supreme Court that the supervisory committee had “abdicated its duties” to evaluate the safety of the structure and water levels. The State countered allegations that the supervisory committee, constituted by the Centre on the basis of an SC judgment in the Mullaperiyar case in May 2014, had “delegated” its duties to a sub-committee. The court was hearing a petition filed by Dr. Joe Joseph and the office-bearers of the Kothamangalam block panchayat in Kerala, who expressed their apprehension about the lack of proper supervision of water levels in the over-a-century-old dam located along the Periyar tiger reserve.  The gate operation schedule and rule curves of the dam are very essential for planning disaster management and ensuring the safety of the people living downstream||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-using-obsolete-gate-operation-schedule/article33663540.ece
26 January 2021||NEW DELHI,TAMIL NADU||Properties of T.N. firms attached in graft case||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has attached 1,081 immovable properties worth Rs. 207 crore in Chennai, Madurai and Ramanathapuram in connection with a case involving Disc Assets Lead India Limited and others for allegedly cheating investors of Rs. 1,273 crore. The assets are in the name of Disc Assets Lead India, Eagles Eye Real Estates, Meadow Realtors and their key functionaries. They have been attached as part of the money laundering probe based on an FIR registered by the Economic Offences Wing of the Tamil Nadu police, said the agency. The background According to the ED, Disc Agrotech Limited — also known as Disc Asset Promoters India Limited and Disc Asset Lead India Limited — was incorporated in 2006. Its directors, V. Janarthanan, N. Umashankar, N. Arun Kumar, C. Srinivasan, T. Shyamchander and S. Jeevalatha, allegedly collected funds in instalments from people in Tamil Nadu, promising them land in return. The ED probe revealed that the company directors had floated other entities, including Dal Marketing Solutions Private Limited and Aiyan Marketing Solutions Private Limited, to collect money from the public on behalf of Disc Assets Lead India Limited by circumventing the legal impediments of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act. They collected Rs. 1,273 crore. The funds were used to buy immovable properties in the State.  The assets are in the name of Disc Assets Lead India, Eagles Eye Real Estates, Meadow Realtors and their key functionaries||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/properties-of-tn-firms-attached-in-graft-case/article33663498.ece
26 January 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Minister for Public Works, another MLA resign from posts||The ruling Congress on Monday suffered a major setback with Minister for Public Works A. Namassivayam and another legislator E. Theeppainthan resigning as legislators. Mr. Namassivayam and Mr. Theeppanthian arrived at the Assembly around 12.45 p.m. and submitted their resignations to Speaker V.P. Sivakolunthu. Mr. Namassivayam also wrote a separate letter to Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy to relieve him of the Ministerial responsibilities. A close associate of the Minister said he also wrote a letter to Congress president Sonia Gandhi accusing the Chief Minister of pushing out top leaders such as P. Kannan, N. Rangasamy and R. Radhakrishnan from the Congress. He also accused Mr. Narayanasamy of blocking the development of the Union Territory by unnecessarily entering into a confrontation with the Centre and the Lt. Governor. The “inexperience” of the Chief Minister in local governance had become a detrimental factor in implementing the party manifesto, the letter said. Full of doubts On Sunday, while addressing his supporters, he said: “For one week I was confused and full of doubts. I will be soon resigning my Minister and MLA posts.” Mr. Namassivayam, the second in the Cabinet led by Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy, was not maintaining a cordial relationship with the party after his claim for the Chief Minister’s post was denied after the 2016 Assembly election. Though he continued in the Cabinet, his relationship with the Chief Minister and the party soured further after he was replaced with A.V. Subramanian as the chief of the Pradesh Congress Committee in March 2020. There are reports of the disgruntled Congress leader having held several rounds of talks with a few BJP leaders in Karnataka and a Chennai-based close associate of Union Home Minister Amit Shah. Highly placed sources told The Hindu that a few sitting legislators of the ruling Congress and ex-legislators of the AINRC were also being approached by the BJP leadership. Opposition party Mr. Namassivayam was also approached by the principal Opposition party, All India N.R. Congress. “In a day or two, it will be clear which party he will be joining,” his associate said. The original strength of the Union Territory Assembly has reduced to 31 from 33 (three nominated) after the disqualification of Congress legislator Danavelou and the death of nominated legislator belonging to BJP K.G. Shankar. After the latest resignations, the strength of the Congress in the Assembly has come down to 12. Along with alliance partner DMK (3) and a lone Independent, the Congress has 16 seats in the 31-member Assembly. The principal Opposition party AINRC has 7, while the AIADMK holds 4 seats, with the rest being held by two nominated legislators.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/minister-for-public-works-another-mla-resign-from-posts/article33664092.ece
26 January 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Govt. in Puducherry remains stable, says Narayanasamy||Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy on Monday said the resignation of two Congress legislators, including PWD Minister A. Namassivayam, posed no threat to the government. Addressing the media, Mr. Narayanasamy said while the legislators — Mr. Namassivayam and Theepainthan — had submitted their resignation to the Assembly Speaker V.P. Sivakolunthu, he was yet to get Mr. Namassivayam’s letter of resignation from the post of Minister. The party high command has been apprised of the developments and the future course of action would be on its guidance, he said. The Chief Minister downplayed the fallout of the resignations, saying, “It is commonplace for such issues to crop up during election time. The government is in the least impacted because of this as it is still in a strong and stable position with the support of the DMK. If the Congress high command dictates so, the PWD portfolio will be allocated to another MLA,” he said. Taking exception to Mr. Namassivayam citing his being sidelined as a reason for quitting the party, Mr. Narayanasamy said on the contrary he had given a free hand to all his Cabinet colleagues, including the latter. He never interfered in any department overseen by Mr. Namassivayam, who was PCC chief for over three years before serving as second in command in the Cabinet, he said. The Chief Minister said the people of Puducherry would never accept the BJP. Those leaving the Congress for the BJP would be reduced to political irrelevance after the election, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/government-in-puducherry-remains-stable-narayanasamy/article33663535.ece
26 January 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||National Voters’ Day celebrated in Union Territory||The Elections Department on Monday presented awards across various categories to reward efforts to enhance elector engagement in the democratic process as part of the National Voters’ Day celebrations. The theme set by the the Election Commission of India for the 11th National Voters’ Day across the country was “Electoral Literacy for Stronger Democracy”. The programme hosted at the Kamban Kalai Arangam was aimed at spreading awareness among future voters and first-time voters for effective participation in the electoral process. Ashwani Kumar, Chief Secretary, delivered the presidential address, felicitated the first-time voters and gave away prizes to officers, staff and other stakeholders. Purva Garg, District Election Officer, Puducherry felicitated the first time voters. Shurbir Singh, Chief Electoral Officer, presided. L. Kumar, Additional Chief Electoral Officer, and B. Thillaivel, Deputy Chief Electoral Officer, also spoke. In keeping with the custom of awarding the best electoral practices, the following officers and staff were selected for the State award under the following categories: The Best ERO Award was given to Asvin Chandru, Sub-Collector, Revenue (South)-cum-Electoral Registration Officer-I for Mannadipet, Thirubhuvanai and Oussudu Assembly constituencies in recognition of his endeavours in prompt registration of electors and maintaining error-free elector rolls. Best Nodal Officer was awarded to V. Arulmurugan, assistant professor, Pondicherry University, Karaikal, and A. Meiappane, associate professor, Manakula Vinayagar Institute of Technology, Puducherry. Best Nodal Officer Award (Electoral Literacy Club — Schools) for various SVEEP activities during 2019 and 2020 was given to D. Victor Inparaj, lecturer in English, Amalorpavam Higher Secondary School, Puducherry; S. Suguna, TGT St. Patrick Matriculation Higher Secondary School, Puducherry; K. Sivasubramanian, TGT, Thillaiyadi Valliyammai Govt. High School, Kadhirgamam; S. Subramaniyan, TGT, Maraimalaiadigal Govemment Higher Secondary School, Embalam. Sathya Special School was selected as the Best Civil Service Organisation for their contribution in facilitating the Election Department to bring differently-abled persons on roll. Keeping in view the prevailing pandemic, the Election Department organised an online competition for college and school students from January 18 to 22.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/national-voters-day-celebrated-in-union-territory/article33664095.ece
26 January 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||New COVID-19 cases in U.T. drop to 18||The Union Territory added 18 COVID-19 cases to its overall tally on Monday. No deaths were reported. Puducherry reported 15 of the new cases, while Mahe reported two and Yanam one. Karaikal did not report any new cases. The cases were detected while testing 2,433 samples. The test positivity rate was 0.73%, the fatality rate 1.66% and the recovery rate 97.62%. With 26 patients discharged from hospitals in the last 24 hours, the active cases in the Union Territory stood at 280. Of this, 104 patients were in hospitals and 176 in home isolation. Puducherry recorded 38,878 case; of this, 37,953 have recovered so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-covid-19-cases-in-ut-drop-to-18/article33664093.ece
26 January 2021||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||Permission denied for Pudukottai tractor rally||Pudukottai district police have denied permission for a tractor rally proposed to be taken out on Republic Day in support of farmers agitating in Delhi demanding the withdrawal of the three new farm laws. A police press release said that information had come to the police that the tractor rally had been planned on behalf of some political parties without obtaining permission.  Action Action under the Motor Vehicle Act would be initiated against vehicles, its owners and drivers if they participated in the rally, defying the police directive, it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-deny-permission-for-tractor-rally-in-pudukottai/article33663513.ece
26 January 2021||R. KrishnamoorthyTIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||NHAI starts civil work on ROB at Kumaramangalam||The National Highways Authority of India on Monday started work on construction of a road over-bridge across the railway tracks at Kumaramangalam, as part of the semi-ring road for Tiruchi. The Karaikudi Project Implementation Unit of the NHAI which executes the 25-km Thuvakudi-Panjapur segment of the semi ring road project conducted the ground breaking ceremony. The project envisages connecting Thanjavur, Pudukottai, Madurai, Dindigul and Karur National Highways, to ease traffic congestion in the city. The Southern Railway had granted its approval for the civil works earlier this month. According to Project Officer of NHAI - Karaikudi PIU, S.S. Baskaran, the entire stretch is planned for completion by August. However, more permissions from the Railways would be required as the work progresses, and the scheduled completion will hinge on timely sanction. As for the 13-km stretch between Thuvakudi and Mathur, most of the work had been completed. The pending work on laying of approach road on one side of the overbridge is in progress. Nevertheless, the portion of the semi ring road between Thuvakudi and Mathur is being put to good use by people from the delta districts bound for Tiruchi airport. Henceforth, people bound for Tiruchi airport need not worry about traffic jams between Tiruverumbur and Palpannai. The circumlocutory route of Tiruverumbur, Palpannai and TVS Toll Gate also meant excess travel time by at least 20 minutes. “Owing to the completion of the Thuvakudi-Mathur stretch, the travel time to the airport has come down substantially,” said Rajavel, a frequent traveller.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nhai-starts-civil-work-on-rob-at-kumaramangalam/article33663457.ece
26 January 2021||Rajapalayam,TAMIL NADU||Cooperative hospital sealed||Officials of Health Department on Monday sealed the A.S. Palanisamy Nadar Cooperative Hospital at Dhalavaipuram, where a youth, who was administered an injection for fever, died on Thursday night. After Communist Party of India (Marxist) cadres, along with local people, staged a protest on Sunday seeking action against the hospital, Joint Director (Medical Services), R. Manoharan, inspected the hospital on Monday. “We found that the hospital had not registered itself under the Tamil Nadu Clinical Establishments Act, 1994 and hence it has been temporarily closed,” Dr. Manoharan said. The certificate of an aged doctor has been sent for verification for its genuineness. The post-mortem report for the deceased, M. Mukesh, was awaited, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cooperative-hospital-sealed-at-dhalavaipuram/article33663495.ece
26 January 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Restrictions announced for Republic Day celebration in Salem||The district administration has advised elderly citizens and children not to visit the Mahatma Gandhi Stadium here for the Republic Day celebration on Tuesday. According to a release, District Collector S.A.Raman would hoist the flag at 8.05 a.m. at the stadium. District administration advised school and college students, elderly citizens not to visit the stadium as there would be no cultural events on the day as part of COVID-19 safety measures. Officials would be presented with meritorious service awards and they have been advised not to bring their family members along for the event. Freedom fighters would be honoured by the Government officials at their respective residences.  Outfits warned The Salem City Police has warned outfits against conducting tractor rally, processions or gatherings here on January 26. In a release, the City police said that in view of COVID-19 precautionary measures, public gatherings have been prohibited. Rallies and processions will not be allowed without the District Collector’s permission. Salem City police have warned of stern action against those organising tractor rallies or processions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/restrictions-announced-for-republic-day-celebration-in-salem/article33663534.ece
26 January 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||14 test positive for COVID-19 in Salem||Fourteen persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Salem on Monday. According to health officials, 10 cases were indigenous, including eight in Salem Corporation limits. Four patients had returned from Namakkal and Erode. Namakkal district reported 20 cases, all indigenous. Erode district reported 20 new cases, taking the district’s tally to 14,246. While 11 persons were discharged, 65 are under treatment. Krishnagiri and Dharmapuri districts recorded three cases each on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/14-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-salem/article33663527.ece
26 January 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||CM takes part in temple consecration||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami took part in the consecration of a temple at Konneripatti village near Edappadi here on Monday. Special pujas were performed and hundreds of villagers took part in the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-takes-part-in-temple-consecration/article33663531.ece
26 January 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Post cards released on National Girl Child Day||National Girl Child Day was observed at the District Collectorate here on Monday. District Collector S.A.Raman administered the Girl Child Day pledge and released awareness post cards. Chief Education Officer T. Ganesh Moorthy received the cards from the Collector. A signature campaign was held as part of the event. Winners of various competitions and mothers of girl children were honoured at the event. Various events were organised as part of the ‘Beti bachao Beti padao’campaign.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/post-cards-released-on-national-girl-child-day/article33663533.ece
26 January 2021||Sangareddy,TAMIL NADU||Police arrest five from Telangana for cheating||The Tamil Nadu police arrested five persons from Patelguda in Ameenpur mandal on Sunday for allegedly cheating people in Chennai. Jewellery shop According to Pagani Karthikeya, inspector, Economic Offences Wing, Rehman and his brother had been running a jewellery shop in T. Nagar for 15 years. In 2019, he had given some advertisements and collected crores of rupees. The duo then closed the shop and fled. A case was registered, and the police had been looking for Rehman for the past two years. On Sunday, he and four others were arrested from his house at BHEL Metro Enclave in Patelguda. The local police assisted the Tamil Nadu police in the arrest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-arrest-five-from-telangana-for-cheating/article33663514.ece
26 January 2021||SIVAGANGA,TAMIL NADU||Kanimozhi joins issue with CM on corruption charges||The AIADMK Ministers claim that the corruption charges against them were false but were moving the court seeking to stay the investigation by the authorities concerned, said DMK MP Kanimozhi here on Monday. Speaking to reporters after garlanding Rani Velu Nachiyar’s statue at the manimandapam here, she said that the DMK president M K Stalin had listed out corruption charges against the Ministers, which the Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami denied as false and malicious. "Then why are they rushing to the court for a direction to stay the probe," she asked seeking a response. On the death of four fishermen in Sri Lanka, Ms. Kanimozhi said that, if the Centre had the will, it could solve the issue in no time. Blaming the AIADMK government of doing nothing over the last decade in power, she said that knowing pretty well that they would not come back to power, the Ministers were looting in every possible project. Shamefully, they had indulged in corruption even in awarding contracts in the Covid-19 pandemic period, she alleged and promised to probe soon after the DMK came to power. Releasing advertisements in the print and electronic media incurred huge expenditure to the government. Giving false messages that Tamil Nadu was flourishing was not only misleading, but also incorrect. Refusing to be drawn into the 'Vel' issue, Ms. Kanimozhi said that the BJP has no hold in the State and it was better to neglect them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kanimozhi-joins-issue-with-cm-on-corruption-charges/article33663504.ece
26 January 2021||Sivakasi,TAMIL NADU||Two new panchayat union primary schools inaugurated||Two new panchayat union primary schools were inaugurated at Tiruthangal Standard Colony and Narnapuram Panchayat S. Lakshmiyapuram on Monday. With this, the total number of Government-run primary schools has increased to 646 in Virudhunagar district. Inaugurating the schools, Minister for Dairy Development K.T. Rajenthra Bhalaji said the State government was implementing several welfare schemes to educate the poor rural students. He said that the government was distributing free textbooks, uniforms, footwear and bicycles, laptops to all Government and Government-aided school students. Education had the most important role in shaping of any child’s life, he added The new schools were started with the concept of neighbourbood schooling so that the children are spared from travelling longer distance for their education, Mr. Bhalaji said. Based on the patronage by way of student’s admission, the school could be upgraded in future, he added. Chief Educational Officer, K. Baladhandayuthapani, said that two teachers for Standard Colony School and three teachers to S. Lakshmiyapuram school have been deputed. Students from nearby schools have been transferred to the new schools. As and when the schools reopen for primary classes, noon-meal would be provided to them. Srivilliputtur MLA M. Chandraprabha, District Educational Officer (Sivakasi) Krishnamoorthi, District Panchayat Vice-Chairperson Subashini and Narnapuram Panchayat President Devarajan were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-new-panchayat-union-primary-schools-inaugurated/article33663502.ece
26 January 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||‘Farm laws will be of benefit’||Tamil Maanila Congress president, G.K.Vasan has called upon the protesting agriculturalists in New Delhi to make use of the three new farm laws and schemes implemented by the Union government for the betterment of their financial position. Addressing the media here on Monday after chairing the TMC Thanjavur unit office-bearers meeting, Mr.Vasan said farmers from only two States were carrying on with the agitation. Urging the demonstrators not to get carried away by the wrong notions of the Opposition parties, he said the farmers should realise that by following their directions they were impeding the chances of reaping the benefits arising out of such Acts and schemes by farmers all over the country. Demanding sanction of adequate compensation for the crop losses suffered by farmers in the delta region due to vagaries of nature, the TMC president urged the government to increase the procurement price of paddy to Rs. 2,500 per quintal and not to effect cut in procurement price citing presence of immature paddy. Asserting that the AIADMK alliance would emerge victorious in the forthcoming Assembly elections, Mr.Vasan said not all those who hold the ‘Vel’ (the sacred spear) could win the elections. “Only those who revere the spear can win the elections,” he said. He urged the Central government to find a permanent solution to the problem of Indian fishermen getting attacked by the Sri Lankan Navy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farm-laws-will-be-of-benefit/article33663458.ece
26 January 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||‘Extend scheme benefits to tenant farmers’||Thanjavur District Cauvery Farmers Protection Association has urged the Centre to extend benefits of Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi scheme to tenant farmers also. In a statement, Association secretary Sundara Vimalanathan said 40 lakh farmers, cultivating various crops and agriculture/horticulture produces on lands taken on lease from Hindu temples, mutts, choultries, mosques/dargahs, churches and other charitable trusts have not been covered under the scheme where Rs. 6,000 was given as financial aid annually. He also sought doubling of the assistance and a monthly pension of Rs. 4,500 for farmhands aged 60 years and above.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/extend-scheme-benefits-to-tenant-farmers/article33663459.ece
26 January 2021||THENI,TAMIL NADU||Jail for Commercial Taxes dept staff||A fast track court here has awarded 10 month jail for a staff attached with the Commercial Taxes Department on Monday. According to the prosecution, Latha, the employee, had borrowed Rs. 5 lakh from Thayalan (36) of Power House Road here in June 2019. She had promised to return it in two months and issued cheques to the extent. However, when the cheques were presented, they were not honoured. Hence, he lodged a complaint with the police, who did not register cases. Finally, he approached the court. After hearing the case, Judge Rupana directed the accused to undergo 10 month jail and return the borrowed sum with 9 % interest. In the event of failure to keep up the commitment, she was directed to undergo jail term for three more months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/jail-for-commercial-taxes-dept-staff/article33663505.ece
26 January 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||‘Give crop loss relief also to farmers using leased lands’||Even as the crop damage survey is going on in the district to ascertain the quantum of damage caused to the crops by recent rains and the number of affected farmers, agriculturists who have taken on lease the lands for cultivation have appealed to the Collector to give compensation to these affected agriculturists also. Led by State president of Tamil Nadu Vivasaayigal Sangam O. A. Narayanasamy, the aggrieved farmers submitted a petition to Collector K. Senthil Raj. The farmers said they, who were happy about the announcement that every farmer who had suffered crop loss due to recent downpour would get rightly compensated, were sour now as the Village Administrative Officers were refusing to receive application for compensation from the farmers who had raised crops on leased lands. “After the owners of the lands left their properties arid for several years, the farmers have taken on lease these lands to make it productive by cultivating crops. More than 60% of the growers of the district do not have own lands and they have cultivated crops only on leased lands. Unfortunately, the recent downpour has wiped out all standing crops raised on these leased ranches to inflict heavy loss to the farmers, who were actually hopeful of getting bumper yield this year following decent rainfall till December last. Since the actual owners of these lands have not suffered any loss and the lessees alone are at the receiving end, the crop loss should be compensated for these agriculturists also. Hence, the VAOs should be instructed to accept the applications for compensation from the farmers who have taken on lands on lease for cultivation of crops,” said Mr. Narayanasamy.  Students’ plea A group of old students of K.A. Higher Secondary School at Paeyanvilai under Tiruchendur taluk submitted a petition seeking free laptops. The students said they, who completed Plus Two in 2017 – 2018 in the school were not given the free laptop while the freebie was given to the students of 2018 – 2019 and 2019 – 2020. “We’re in the college now doing our third year. Since the online classes are being conducted now, the free laptops will be of great use for us,” they said.  Pollution A group of villagers from M. Meenakshipuram near Ottapidaaram submitted a petition against the pollution being allegedly caused by a neighbourhood bitumen – blue metal mixing unit. “While the black fume emanating from this unit pollutes the environment and causes breathing problems, the heavy vehicles coming to the unit with bitumen, blue metal and the carrying the mixture are damaging the road passing through our hamlet. Hence, the licence given for this unit should be cancelled,” they said.  Free house site One Padmavathi from Paeyanvilai near Arumuganeri submitted a petition seeking free house site as she is struggling to take care of two physically challenged children in a rented house. “Since my husband, a labourer, is sick and cannot go for work, we’re about to be chased away by the landlord as we’re unable to pay the rent properly. Hence, I pray to the Collector to give us a free house site,” Ms. Padmavathi said. A group of fifty villagers from Idaichivilai near Sattankulam submitted a petition to the Collector seeking free house sites, as they do not own lands or houses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/give-crop-loss-relief-also-to-farmers-using-leased-lands/article33664156.ece
26 January 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Eligibility determined for recruitment drive||The Directorate of Collegiate Education has, through its regional offices, determined the qualifications of senior guest lecturers in government arts and science colleges who are eligible for service regularisation. The exercise was carried out at the level of colleges by the respective principals, sources said. As per Government Order 59, which, teachers’ organisations say, is yet to be released despite being passed on March 21, 2019. Those with specified qualification - Ph.D. with five years of experience in the same college prior to the date of GO, or a pass in NET/SLET with five years of experience in the same institution - are considered eligible to take part in the recruitment process. While guest lecturers in existing government arts and science colleges and the 14 constituent colleges of State universities that went through the conversion process in the first phase have been considered eligible for posts, there is no clarity on whether those in the 27 constituent colleges that were recently converted into government arts and science colleges are in the reckoning. But the Government Order does imply rather clearly that teachers of self-financed colleges and those recruited to handle self-supporting programmes in government-aided colleges, despite having put in several years of service, are not eligible to apply, a representative of a teachers’ organisation said. Teachers of private colleges wonder why the government has chosen to conduct the special recruitment in ambiguous circumstances when it had the leverage to recruit teachers through general TRB (Teachers’ Recruitment Board) by assigning special weightage for guest lecturers in government colleges. “There is a sense of discomfort over the hurried and opaque manner in which the recruitment process is progressing. A measure of transparency on the part of the Higher Education department will be highly appreciated,” a teacher of a self-financed college in Tiruchi said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/eligibility-determined-for-special-recruitment-drive/article33663447.ece
26 January 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Thanjavur painting artist no more||L. Ramanujam, an acclaimed practitioner and teacher of Thanjavur painting, passed away in Srirangam at the age of 76 years. Ramanujam was also the recipient of lifetime achievement award by the Tamil Nadu government in 2014. Certificate course Ramanujam is said to have trained over 2,000 students through his certificate course in Thanjavur painting, which he began under the auspices of the District Industries Centre in 1980 in Srirangam, with a focus on imparting skill to women for home-based employment. Ramanujam learned Thanjavur painting and photography in 1962 as an adolescent, and had been self-employed since then. He conducted classes and undertook orders at his Sri Ranga Tanjore Art Gallery on Amma Mandapam Road, and was active until a fortnight ago, family sources told The Hindu . Ramanujam helped in popularising Thanjavur painting beyond its birthplace. He is survived by his wife and three children.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/thanjavur-painting-artist-no-more/article33663449.ece
26 January 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||41 fresh cases in delta||The central region recorded less than 50 positive cases of COVID 19 and no death on account of the virus for the second consecutive day on Monday. Forty-one persons tested positive in the eight districts. All the districts, except Tiruchi, reported new cases in single digits. The declining trend in the daily numbers in recent days has come as a much needed relief for healthcare workers. According to the bulletin issued by the Health Department, Tiruchi reported 13 cases; Perambalur had no fresh case, nine tested positive in Tiruvarur district; five each in Thanjavur and Nagapattinam districts; four each in Karur and Pudukottai; and one in Ariyalur. As on Monday, Tiruchi also had the maximum number of 103 active cases, including those in home quarantine, in the region. Thanjavur had 90 cases, Tiruvarur 82, Nagapattinam 60, Karur 39, Pudukottai 28, Ariyalur 9 and Perambalur 1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/41-fresh-cases-in-delta/article33663453.ece
26 January 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Rally taken out for voter awareness||Awareness programmes, rallies and administration of pledge marked National Voters Day observation here on Monday. Students of Periyar E.V.R. College took out a rally from the Central Bus Stand to the Collector’s Office in the city. They also took a pledge to exercise their franchise without fear or favour. District Revenue Officer T.Palanikumar handed over the Electors Photo Identity Cards to 11 voters on the occasion and also distributed prizes to a doctor and three medical students for raising awareness through their paintings. Ten booth-level officers were also presented with certificates in recognition of their meritorious service.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rally-taken-out-for-voter-awareness/article33663454.ece
26 January 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Man held for killing father||A 48-year-old man, Prabodhachandran, was arrested on the charge of killing his father A. Nandhagopal, 81, in their house on Alagar Street under Airport police station limits in the early hours of Monday. Prabodhachandran was unmarried and did not have proper employment. He was allegedly vexed over the delay in his marriage and was under the impression that his father had not taken any steps in this regard while his brother and sisters were settled well. He allegedly pushed his father down who sustained head injury after hitting a slab stone leading to his death.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-held-for-killing-father/article33663465.ece
26 January 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Stone laid||A fishing harbour would come up soon at Arcottuthurai in Vedaranyam taluk in Nagapattinam district at an estimated cost of Rs. 150 crore. The foundation stone for the project was laid on Monday by Minister for Handlooms and Textiles O.S. Manian in the presence of Collector Praveen P. Nair and senior officials. The fishing hamlet, located about 50 km away from Nagapattinam, has a population of about 2,350. The fisherfolk own 64 mechanised fishing vessels and 245 fibre-reinforced plastic boats. Hit by tsunami It was one of the badly affected fishing villages in the 2004-tsunami and cyclone Gaja as the fishing vessels were damaged in the absence of a safe place to anchor them. With a view to protecting the livelihood of fishermen, studies were taken up to establish a fishing harbour, following which it was planned to establish it on the southern side of the hamlet. The work would entail dredging and creation of landside facilities such as an auction hall, net mending yard and boat repair workshop. The harbour can accommodate 64 mechanised vessels and 376 fibre boats. Fisherfolk in neighbouring hamlets such as Kodiakarai, Kodiakadu and Maniantheevu would also benefit from the fishing harbour..||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-fishing-harbour-soon/article33663450.ece
26 January 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Language martyrs remembered||Members of various political parties and other organisations paid homage to the language martyrs on the occasion of Language Martyrs Day that was observed on Monday. AIADMK members led by Ministers Vellamandi N. Natarajan and S. Valarmathi took out a silent march from the MGR statue to the memorial of language martyrs Keezhapazhur Chinnasamy and Viralimalai Shanmugam, who had sacrificed their lives during the anti-Hindi agitations, on the banks of Uyyakondan river near Anna Nagar. Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam members led by the party's principal secretary and former Minister K.N. Nehru took out a silent procession from the Kohinoor Junction to the memorial and paid homage. Cadres of Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam, Communist Party of India, Viduthalai Chiruthaigal, Marumalarchi Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam, Naam Tamilar Katchi, Makkal Kalai Ilyakiya Kazhagam and Tamil Puligal also paid their homage at the memorial.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/language-martyrs-remembered/article33664151.ece
26 January 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Students demand laptops||A group of about 40 girl students of some colleges squatted in front of the Collectorate here on Monday urging the State government to give them laptops. The students claimed that they were not given laptops when they completed Plus Two in 2017-18 and wanted it now.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/students-demand-laptops/article33663464.ece
26 January 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Mettur level||The water level at Mettur dam stood at 105.97 feet on Monday against its full level of 120 feet. The inflow was 1,230 cusecs and the discharge 999 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mettur-level/article33663467.ece
26 January 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||MUTA cries foul over bid to hold Syndicate election||The Madurai Kamaraj, Manonmaniam Sundaranar, Mother Teresa and Alagappa Teachers’ University Association (MUTA) has objected to the MSU’s reported attempt to conduct election to the Syndicate before conducting election for ‘Graduates Constituency’. According to M. Nagarajan, general secretary, MUTA, Manonmaniam Sundaranar University recently has sent a circular regarding the election of two Syndicate Members from the teachers in the Senate of the university. Along with this, the university wants to conduct the election of a Syndicate member in the ‘Other Category’, which is to be held on February 19, 2021. The ‘Other Category’ includes headmasters of schools, government-nominated members to the Senate, Governor-nominated members, college secretaries and the Senate members from the ‘Graduates Constituencies’. From the Senate members of this group, a Syndicate member has to be elected. “Without conducting the Senate Election for the ‘Graduate Constituencies’ of Thoothukudi, Tirunelveli and Kanniyakumari districts, the MSU is trying to conduct the Syndicate election for this 'other category’, which is illegal. Without conducting the election for selecting two Senate members each from the ‘Graduate Constituencies’, election to the Syndicate in the 'other category' is murder of democracy,” Prof. Nagarajan said. He charged that all these attempts were being made to ensure the induction of one Mohammed Ali into the Syndicate. “Mr. Ali has ceased to be secretary of Muslim Arts College, Thiruvithancode (in Kanniyakumari district) after March 31, 2020 and hence he cannot be the Senate member now (after March 31, 2020). However, he is allowed to continue as the member MSU’s Senate to ensure his election to Syndicate even after a complaint filed by the MUTA. Hence, the Governor-Chancellor should order a probe and ensure that the election be held for Syndicate only after conducting the election for ‘Graduates Constituency’,” Prof. Nagarajan said. Vice-Chancellor, MSU, K. Pitchumani told The Hindu that the ‘Graduates Constituency’ election could not be held since the matter was ‘sub judice’. “Mr. Mohamed Ali who submitted on time to the Directorate of Collegiate Education the papers approving him of secretary of the college is still continuing as the secretary of Muslim Arts College. So far, his papers have not been rejected and hence it is deemed as approval,” said Dr. Pitchumani.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/muta-cries-foul-over-bid-to-hold-syndicate-election/article33663496.ece
26 January 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Retired nutritious meal workers seek ‘Pongal gift’||Members of Tamil Nadu Retired Nutritious Meal Workers’ Welfare Association submitted a petition to Collector V. Vishnu on Monday seeking the disbursal of ‘Pongal Gift’ of Rs. 500 and the festival advance of Rs. 4,000. The aggrieved members said the newly introduced software was obstructing the disbursal of the ‘Pongal Gift’ to the retired noonmeal workers. Hence, it should be scrapped to ensure the early disbursal of the assistance. Moreover, the government should consider giving Rs. 3,000 as ‘Pongal Gift’ to the retired noonmeal workers as being given to the ‘C’ and ‘D’ category government employees.  ‘Fake’ document A group of villagers from Panneer Ooththu near Maanur submitted a petition against a fake document of a temple registered by an individual in favour of his community. The petitioners said the individual had registered a temple and the surrounding land in favour of a particular community even as people belonging to all communities were offering prayers in the temple. “Hence, the Collector should cancel the fake document,” said A. Ramkumar, ex-panchayat president of Sundankurichi, encompassing Panneer Ooththu also.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/retired-nutritious-meal-workers-seek-pongal-gift/article33664158.ece
26 January 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||National Voters’ Day observed||A range of awareness events – releasing colourful balloons in air to signing of voter awareness banners - were organised here on Monday as part of the ‘National Voters’ Day’ to persuade all eligible voters to come to the polling stations without fail to exercise their franchise without fail in the ensuing Assembly polls. Led by Collector V. Vishnu, Commissioner of Police, Tirunelveli City, Deepak M. Damor, Deputy Inspector General of Police, Tirunelveli Range, Praveen Kumar Abinapu, Superintendent of Police, Tirunelveli, N. Manivannan, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order), Tirunelveli City, Saravanan and other senior police officials released colourful balloons in air near the Collectorate after voters’ pledge was administered to the participants. In Tenkasi, Collector G.S. Sameeran administered the pledge to the police officers, including Superintendent of Police Suguna Singh. Collector of Thoothukudi K. Senthil Raj, Additional Collector Vishnu Chandran, Corporation Commissioner V.P. Jayaseelan and the voters participated in the ‘National Voters’ Day’ awareness cycle rally in Thoothukudi on Monday.  In Kanniyakumari, Collector M. Aravind, Additional Collector Mercy Ramya, Superintendent of Police V. Badri Narayanan and Corporation Commissioner Asha Ajit participated in an awareness seminar organized at S.T. Hindu College, Nagercoil and the Collector administered the pledge to the participants.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/national-voters-day-observed/article33664154.ece
26 January 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Rural student to represent T.N. in 300 metre race||A school student from Vadakkankulam in the district has been selected for the national junior and senior open athletic meet to be held in Guwahati in February. In the 34th Tamil Nadu State Junior and Senior Open Athletic Championships held at Mepco Schelenk Engineering College, Sivakasi recently, M. Kanista Teena, a Class 11 of St. Tereasa’s Higher Secondary School, Vadakkankulam, won the gold medal in the 300 metre race category, which was introduced only this year. Ms. Teena, who was concentrating on 400 metre race till last year and won the bronze medal in the State-level Republic Day Athletic Meet held in Tiruchi in 2020, tried her luck in the newly introduced 300-metre event also to win gold medal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rural-student-to-represent-tn-in-300-metre-race/article33664160.ece
26 January 2021||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||Tractor rally: farmers’ forum alleges threat by police||Tamizhaga Vivasayigal Sangam affiliated to the Communist Party of India has alleged that the police had threatened tractor owners with dire consequences if they decide to participate in the tractor and motorcycle rally planned by the All Farmers Protest Coordination Committee on Republic Day in support of the agitating farmers in New Delhi. In a statement, P.S. Masilamani, State deputy secretary of the association, said owners of the tractors were threatened by the police that their licences would be cancelled if they lend or participate in the rally, citing Prohibitory Orders under Section 144. While the law enforcing machinery cites the COVID-19 pandemic situation as one of the reasons, the very same department provided ‘bandobust’` to political party events in which people participated in large numbers. Claiming that the permission had been granted for the tractor rally for a distance of 170 km in New Delhi by the Haryana and Punjab police departments, Mr. Masilamani regretted that in Tamil Nadu the rally was prevented by the police. However, the tractor rally would be taken out as planned, he said and added that the police department would be responsible if any law and order problems cropped up. Pudukottai The police have denied permission for a tractor rally proposed to be taken out in Pudukottai on Republic Day. A police press release said action under Motor Vehicle Act would be initiated against vehicles, its owners and drivers if they participated in the rally, defying the police directive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tractor-rally-farmers-forum-alleges-threat-by-police/article33663460.ece
26 January 2021||Udhagamandalam,TAMIL NADU||Leopard found dead near Emerald in Udhagamandalam||A one-year-old male leopard was found dead near Emerald in the Udhagai South Range in the Nilgiris forest division on Sunday. Forest department officials said the animal was found with injuries to its neck.  District Forest Officer, the Nilgiris division, D. Guruswamy, said a post-mortem was conducted and the cause of death was believed to be due to natural causes. The carcass was destroyed after the completion of the post-mortem.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/leopard-found-dead-near-emerald-in-udhagamandalam/article33663543.ece
26 January 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Plus Two students of 2017-18 batch seek free laptop||B. Saritha, who is in her final year undergraduation, has not missed even a single working day in all her first two years of college. But, when the online classes began after the outbreak of COVID-19 pandemic, this student of Government Arts College in Chinnakamanpatti near Sattur had to miss classes for two weeks. “My family could not afford a smart mobile phone immediately. I had to wait for two weeks for it at the cost of missing classes for two weeks,” she said. Saritha, who had completed her school from Government Higher Secondary School in N. Subbiahapuram near Sattur, was unlucky as the State government failed to issue her free laptop. Like her, many students of Government schools were not given the free laptops meant for the higher secondary classes students in 2017-18. “Only two out of the five students who had opted for NEET coaching through government initiative were given laptops then. We were told we could not be given the laptops since the Parliamentary elections were held in 2019,” Ms. Saritha said. Though laptops have been distributed to three subsequent batches of students, the teachers had told these students that they have no order to distribute laptops to the 2017-18 batch students. Some of the students, who are now in final year in college, submitted separate petitions to Virudhunagar Collector, R. Kannan, seeking the free laptops.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plus-two-students-of-2017-18-batch-seek-free-laptop/article33663507.ece
26 January 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Bike rally marks National Voters’ Day||A motorbike rally by Government employees and police personnel was taken out to mark the 11th National Voters’ Day in Virudhunagar on Monday. Collector R. Kannan flagged off the rally at the Collectorate. Around 300 motorists took part in the rally to highlight the importance to exercising franchise during the elections among the voters. The rally went through Uzhavar Santhai, Municipal office and reached back the Collectorate. Speaking on the occasion, the Collector said that it was the democratic duty of every voter to cast their vote. District Revenue Officer, R. Mangalaramasubramanian, District Rural Development Officer, V. Jayakumar, Sub-Collector, Sivakasi, C. Dinesh Kumar, Personal Assistant (General) to Collector, Kalimuthu, and Tahsildars, Ayyakutti (Election) and Muthulakshmi (Virudhunagar), were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bike-rally-marks-national-voters-day/article33663508.ece
26 January 2021||January 26 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||149 bird species, 105 types of butterflies recorded in Tiruchi||A two-day survey on birds and butterflies carried out by the Forest Department jointly with Act for Butterflies, a non-governmental organisation here, has recorded 149 bird species and 105 butterfly species in Tiruchi district. The exercise was carried out by the field-level Forest Department personnel and volunteers of the Act for Butterflies on Saturday and Sunday in the four forest ranges of Tiruchi, Thuraiyur, Thuvarankurichi and Manapparai, and at the Tropical Butterfly Conservatory in Srirangam. The survey covered wetlands, scrub jungles, hills at Thuvarankurichi, Manapparai and the scenic Pachamalai and reserve forests. Teams of five to seven members were deployed in each forest range. Seven to eight wetlands in Tiruchi forest range were covered during the survey in which several bird species were recorded. Majority in wetlands A majority of the bird species were recorded in the wetlands and 89 bird species were recorded at Kiliyur tank alone, said Mohan Prasath, founder, Act for Butterflies. The Fulvous Whistling Duck was a newly-sighted bird species in Tiruchi district, he said. The other bird species recorded during the survey include Mottled Wood Owl, Rock Eagle Owl, Jungle Owlet, Red Necked Falcon, Booted Eagle, White Eyed Buzzard, Eurasian Marsh Harrier, Pallid Harrier, Crested Serpent Eagle, Short-toed Snake Eagle, Indian Courser, Osprey, Oriental Honey Buzzard, Indian Spotted Eagle, Bonelli’s Eagle and Brahminy Kite. The team members used binoculars to spot the birds at a distance and cameras to capture the images. As for butterflies, as many as 89 species were recorded at the lush Pachamalai in Thuraiyur range endowed with forests, valleys and ridges, said Mr. Prasath adding that Orange Awlet and Painted Jezebel butterfly species were recorded for the first time in Tiruchi district. This is the first time that an elaborate survey of birds and butterfly species was done covering entire Tiruchi district, said S. Ramasubramanian, Conservator of Forests, Thanjavur Circle, holding additional charge of Tiruchi Circle. The survey would enable the department to plan the work in accordance with the results, said District Forest Officer D. Sujatha. The findings would not only serve as a ready reckoner of birds and butterfly species in Tiruchi district but also help in stepping up protection measures and creating awareness among people on their conservation outside the reserve forest areas, Mr. Ramasubramanian added.  Beaks and wings This is the first time a survey was done covering entire district  89 species of butterflies were recorded at Pachamalai alone  Fulvous Whistling Duck was a newly-sighted bird species||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/149-bird-species-105-types-of-butterflies-recorded-in-tiruchi/article33663463.ece
26 January 2021||January 26 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore reports 56 new COVID-19 cases, one death||Coimbatore district reported 56 new cases of COVID-19 on Monday, according to the Health Department. A 68-year-old man died of the disease. As per the media bulletin, 68 persons were discharged on Monday and a total of 465 persons were undergoing treatment at different hospitals in the district. Tiruppur district had 182 patients in hospitals including the 34 persons who tested positive on Monday. In the Nilgiris, six persons tested positive and with the latest infections, the total number of confirmed cases stood at 8,162. The toll stood at 47 and 51 persons are undergoing treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-reports-56-new-covid-19-cases-one-death/article33663907.ece
26 January 2021||January 26 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Be safe on road||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/be-safe-on-road/article33663517.ece
26 January 2021||January 26 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Glowing at night||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/glowing-at-night/article33664006.ece
26 January 2021||January 26 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||State will have 23,000 more polling booths, says Governor||“Let me remind you that you now have the power to choose your representatives. Do exercise this power responsibly, use this opportunity and exercise your franchise every time in the most informed and ethical manner, free of any inducement and going beyond narrow considerations. I would like to tell all eligible citizens to register themselves as voters and vote with pride at every election,” the Governor said. Officials take part Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam, State Election Commissioner R. Palaniswamy, Chief Electoral Officer Satyabrata Sahoo, Additional Chief Electoral Officer V. Rajaraman, Chennai Collector R. Seethalakshmi and District Election Officer and Greater Chennai Corporation Commissioner G. Prakash were among those present during the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-will-have-23000-more-polling-booths-says-governor/article33663477.ece
26 January 2021||January 26 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Enumeration drive||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/enumeration-drive/article33664098.ece
26 January 2021||January 26 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Campus Connect||Student teams of Tamil Nadu National Law University have won laurels in three national moot court competitions this month. A team consisting of J. Krishna, Pratibha Bhati and Manimozhi, all students of III year UG law programme, were adjudged the winning team at the Ist National Virtual Moot Court Competition ‘INVICTA JUSTUM’ organised by Nehru Academy of Law, Palakkad. The team also won the Best Memorial Award and Ms. Manimozhi was honoured as Best Researcher. In the XVII K.K. Luthra Memorial Moot Court 2021 organised by Campus Law Centre, Delhi University, J. Manikandan Prabhu, S. Sivakumar and Nilavan of IVth Year Undergraduate Law Programme were declared winners. In the 9th NLIU National Corporate Law Moot organised by the National Law Institute University, Bhopal, the student team of R. Raghavi, Dhruti Lunker and S.D. Isiri, of IVth Year UG Law Programme were adjudged winners.     A Ford EcoSport vehicle, donated by Ford India under its corporate social responsibility initiatives, ‘Taking Education Further.’ for students to gain practical training in automobile engineering, was dedicated at Mount Zion College of Engineering and Technology in Pudukottai by college director Jayson Keerthy Jayabarathan. The company had entered into an MoU with the college under which the car could be used within the college campus for the benefit of the students. It will be used for demonstration during the workshops, experiments, practical sessions and research work.   The Department of English of Shrimati Indira Gandhi College organised a webinar on ‘Language Proficiency Series - Define and Design your Destiny.’ Jayanthasri Balakrishnan, retired Professor and Reader of English, PSG College of Arts and Science, was the resource person. She explained techniques for teachers to play an inspirational role in the classroom. Professionalism, thorough domain knowledge, contemporary relevance and communication skills were essential to excel as a teacher, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/campus-connect/article33663468.ece
26 January 2021||January 26 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Republic Day||District Administration: District Collector C. Kathiravan hoists tricolour, V.O.C. Park Ground, 8 a.m.  Sri Vasavi College (Self-Finance Wing): college premises,8.45 a.m.  RD National College of Arts and Science: college premises 10 a.m.    Periyar University: University premises, 8.05 a.m.  Sri Vidya Mandir HSS: School premises, 9.15 a.m.    Sengunthar Engineering college: College premises,   9.30 a.m.  Trinity College for Women: College premises, 8.30 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/republic-day/article33663528.ece
26 January 2021||January 26 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore today||District Administration: Republic Day celebrations, Collector K. Rajamani hoists the Tri-Colour and takes the salute, VOC Park Grounds, 8 a.m.  Coimbatore Corporation: Corporation Commissioner P. Kumaravel Pandian hoists the National Flag, Corporation Main office premises, 8.05 a.m.  Jai Hind Foundation: Republic Day celebrations, inauguration of the Fort of Patriotism and planting of 1947 fruit bearing trees, Palakkad Highway Chavadi near V Guard factory, 9 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-today/article33663902.ece
26 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HC declines to stay collection, use and retention of info through Aarogya Setu||The High Court of Karnataka on Monday declined to stay collection, use and retention of information through the Aarogya Setu app while prima facie holding that there was ‘informed consent of the users’ through the ‘terms and condition’ and ‘privacy policy’ made available in the app. However, the court restrained till further orders the Central government and the National Informatics Centre (NIC) from sharing the ‘response data’ collected through the app with third parties ‘without the informed consent’ of users of the app as per the Aarogya Setu Data Access and Knowledge Sharing Protocol, 2020. A division bench, comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice S. Vishwajith Shetty, passed the interim order on a PIL petition filed by Anivar A. Aravind, a software engineer working for a non-profit organisation, to protect people’s rights in the digital space. “ Prima facie , we hold that informed consent of the users of Aarogya Setu app is taken to what is provided in the privacy policy, which is available on Aarogya Setu app itself and, therefore, there is an informed consent of users of the app, which is limited only to collection and manner of collection of information, use of information and retention, as provided in the privacy policy, which is available on the app,” the bench observed. However, the bench held that “ prima facie there is no informed consent of users of the app taken for sharing of response data as provided in the Protocol 2020, as there is no reference to the said protocol in the terms and condition and the privacy policy available on the app”. While the privacy policy states that the data would be shared only with the government of India, the bench said the Protocol 2020 permits NIC to ‘share the response data for research purposes with third parties, which clause has not been made available in the privacy policy on the app, and thus sharing of response data is being done without consent of the user, much less, an informed consent”. Meanwhile, the bench clarified that the Central government could move the court on restriction on sharing response data by filing an affidavit to satisfy the court that the chairperson, Empowered Group on Technology and Data Management or the Empowered Group is legally empowered to issue the protocol, and that the informed consent of the users of the app is taken for implementation of clauses for sharing of the response data as stated in the protocol. Also, the bench accepted the assurance given by the Central government that no individual would be denied the benefits of any services provided by the governments, its agencies, and instrumentalities on the ground of not installing the app. The petitioner, during the pendency of the petition, had sought a direction from the court to restrain the Central government from proceeding with the app and with the data collected, in any manner, whether the collection of data from the users is stated to be voluntary or involuntary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hc-declines-to-stay-collection-use-and-retention-of-info-through-aarogya-setu/article33663570.ece
26 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State first to vaccinate over 2L healthcare workers||Karnataka has vaccinated over two lakh healthcare workers against COVID-19 making it the first State in the country to cross the milestone. As on Monday evening, as many as 2.3 lakh healthcare workers had been vaccinated in the State over the last 10 days. A total of 19,50,183 healthcare workers have been vaccinated across the country. As many as 11.79% of healthcare workers vaccinated are from Karnataka. Among all the States and Union territories, the least number have been vaccinated in Daman and Diu, where 320 people have been vaccinated as of Monday. Speaking to mediapersons on Monday, Health and Family Welfare Minister K. Sudhakar said that no side effects of the vaccine have been reported. He added that it was completely safe and more people should come forward to take the vaccine. Dr. Sudhakar said that while initially, the State had received 7,94,500 doses of Covishield and 20,000 doses of Covaxin, now an additional 1,46,240 doses of Covaxin have arrived. Karnataka has been leading in the number of healthcare workers vaccinated, and has managed to reach 53% of its target so far. On Monday alone, 38% of the total 85,422 targeted healthcare workers were vaccinated. The highest percentage of coverage was in Chamarajnagar district where 73% of the target was achieved. The lowest was in Dharwad district where only 19% of the targeted healthcare workers were vaccinated. No severe or serious adverse events following immunisation were reported on Monday. While 1,099 sessions were planned across the State, 1,097 sessions were held.  Second phase Dr. Sudhakar said that in the second phase, the Chief Minister and his Cabinet colleagues will take the jab to boost the morale of the public. He also said that they had requested the Prime Minister to allow the State government to vaccinate around 500 popular personalities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-first-to-vaccinate-over-2l-healthcare-workers/article33663575.ece
26 January 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||MoU signed for promoting export of rose onions||A Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) was signed last week by four rose onion growing organisations with B.S. Allium Cepa Exports LLP for promoting its exports. According to a release from Karnataka State Agricultural Produce Processing and Export Corporation Ltd. (KAPPEC), approximately 2,500 farmers from four Farmer Producer Organisations (FPOs) of Chickballapur district envisaging production of close to 20,000 MT of rose onions are expected to benefit through this export promotion. Niraj Kumar Verma, CGM of NABARD, said that this joint initiative of NABARD and KAPPEC, involving FPOs, addresses the supply chain constraints involving rose onion crop and enables farmers to get better price, while also earning foreign exchange for the nation. He emphasised that efforts are being made to cover more such identified clusters in pomegranate, coffee, black pepper by enhancing their export potential through better post harvest management, training on Global Gap Certification and value addition. Govt. plan B. Shivaraju, Managing Director, KAPPEC, said that the agency is working as per the action plan and strategy paper prepared by the government of Karnataka to implement the Agriculture Export Policy (AEP) for export facilitation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mou-signed-for-promoting-export-of-rose-onions/article33663580.ece
26 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HC stays construction in Bengaluru’s Cubbon Park||The High Court of Karnataka on Monday restrained further construction of a ‘new’ hall being put up by the Karnataka State Government Employees’ Association (KSGEA) in Cubbon Park while directing that another building, put up by the Horticulture Department for housing HOPCOMs, should not be occupied without permission from the court. A division bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Sachin Shankar Magadum passed the interim order on a petition filed by Cubbon Park Walkers’ Association, which had sought action against constructions illegally put up in the notified Cubbon Park by various government and non-government organisations in violation of a 2001 direction of the High Court. Earlier, it was contended on behalf of the government that the areas where the constructions were being carried out by the KSGEA and the Horticulture Department were excluded from the areas falling in Cubbon Park in 2015 by redefining the boundaries of the park by modifying the 1998 notification. It was also contended by the government that the constructions are not new ones but renovations being carried out after taking permission from the government. The petitioner had contended that the court had in 2001 specifically directed the government not to allow any new constructions in the area notified as Cubbon Park in the 1998 notification without taking clearance from the court before proceeding with the construction. The petitioner had alleged that the Public Works Department permitted organisations like the Bangalore Water Supply and Sewerage Board, the Century Club, the Karnataka State Lawn Tennis Association, the Karnataka Government Secretariat Club, the Karnataka State Government Employees’ Association, the Press Club of Bangalore, and the Young Men’s Christian Association, to carry out constructions sans permission from the court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hc-stays-construction-in-bengalurus-cubbon-park/article33663571.ece
26 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||FDA question paper leak: KPSC stenographer held||Continuing its investigations into the FDA question paper leak case, the Central Crime Branch (CCB) on Monday arrested Sana Bedi, stenographer in the Karnataka Public Service Commission (KPSC) controller of exam division, who allegedly played a key role in getting the papers leaked. Sandeep Patil, Joint Commissioner of Police, said Sana had access to the question papers and she leaked it to Ramesh, who then gave them to the prime accused, Chandru. The CCB had arrested Ramesh from his home town in Bagalkot. Sana is the second accused arrested by the CCB from the KPSC. The police have taken Chandru into custody to get details of the people who benefited from him in the exam. Efforts are on to track them and book them in the case for further legal action, the police said. The CCB is now probing the financial aspect of the entire racket and questioning Ramesh and Sana. The CCB police, who uncovered the questioned paper leak racket on Saturday — a day before the competitive examination for the post of First Division Assistant was scheduled to be held — have arrested 16 people so far, including Sana and Ramesh. The exam, organised by the KPSC, has since been cancelled and new dates will be announced. According to the police, Chandru is an inspector with the commercial tax vigilance squad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/fda-question-paper-leak-kpsc-stenographer-held/article33663682.ece
26 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Vaccine yet to find acceptance among some healthcare workers||Though it has been 10 days since the vaccination drive against COVID-19 began, the vaccine, it appears, is yet to find acceptance among among a large section of healthcare workers. Doctors and hospital managements say that a significant section of healthcare workers are not coming forward to take the jab despite hospitals initiating several confidence-building measures. Prasanna H.M., president, Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (PHANA), said that only around 40% of the healthcare workers in private hospitals were willing to take the jab. “All heads of hospitals and senior doctors took the vaccine, and hoped that it would motivate more people to come forward. But families of healthcare professionals are advising them to adopt a wait-and-watch approach,” he said. He added that while glitches in the Co-WIN app have been resolved, the hurdle in improving vaccine coverage was due to reluctance of healthcare workers to take the jab. While some of them were not convinced of the use of the vaccine, many others were anxious about adverse events following vaccination and, hence, did not want to take the vaccine at this point. While healthcare workers are more confident of Covishield, those who have to take Covaxin are slightly more reluctant, doctors state. Ajit Benedict Royan, medical director, HOSMAT Hospital, said that around 60% of their staff had taken the vaccine. Although this percentage was higher than the national average, many of their staff were apprehensive and had adopted a wait-and-watch approach. “We are hoping that the staff, who have not taken the vaccine, are motivated after seeing that those who took the vaccine did not face any side-effects or adverse reactions,” he said. Vikram Sreeram, managing director of Mallige Hospital, said that over 60% of their staff were vaccinated. “Our top management and senior doctors have taken the vaccine to set an example, but many, including young doctors, have unfounded fears. But it is a completely voluntary exercise and we do not want to pressurise anyone to take the jab,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vaccine-yet-to-find-acceptance-among-some-healthcare-workers/article33663845.ece
26 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Policy on public toilets and maintenance soon’||The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) will come out with a comprehensive policy on building public toilets and their maintenance, said BBMP Commissioner N. Manjunath Prasad, addressing a virtual meeting on the presentation and data analysis of citizen responses to the ‘MyCityMyBudget’ campaign organised in collaboration with the NGO Janaagraha. Mr. Prasad said that there are no financial constraints to building public toilets in the city. “Two major demands of the people of the city are good roads with footpaths and public toilets. In the survey, people have suggested building 236 public toilets at various points in the city. In addition to that, we are ready to build 100 to 200 more toilets. There are no financial constraints. Maintaining the existing public toilets in good condition and providing good access to them is also important. In the coming days, a comprehensive policy will be brought out in this regard,” he said. The campaign has received response from 9,700 citizens, out of which as many as 3,143 people referred to public urination or yellow spots. People have also given input on broken footpaths, the poor state of existing public toilets, and more. Srinivas Alavilli, head of civic participation at Janaagraha, said that the city has 470 petrol bunks, and providing public toilet facilities at these locations would help the public in a big way. In addition to this, providing public toilets near BMTC bus stops and TTMCs, and near metro stations on the ground floor, would be helpful, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/policy-on-public-toilets-and-maintenance-soon/article33663837.ece
26 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||No Minister will resign: Narayana Gowda||Amid reports of some Ministers being resentful over the frequent changes in portfolios, Minister for Youth Empowerment and Sports and Planning K.C. Narayana Gowda on Monday said that no Minister would resign from the government and Minor Irrigation Minister C.P. Yogeshwar would not be made district in-charge Minister of Mandya. Speaking to presspersons here after reviewing a meeting of both departments, Mr. Gowda said that he was satisfied with the portfolio allotted to him and changes in portfolios were made to accommodate all the legislators who helped the formation of the BJP government. Changes in portfolio have not impacted the administration, he added. He said Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa was capable of handling any threat to the government, given his vast experience. Now onwards, the government would focus on the development agenda, as till now the focus was on saving lives from COVID-19, he added. Mr. Gowda said Mr. Yogeshwar would not be given charge of Mandya district since he was from Ramanagaram. In a lighter vein, he added, “But he is welcome to Mandya for lunch and snacks.” He also said that more funds would be sought in the Budget for 2021-22 for promoting sports in theState.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/no-minister-will-resign-narayana-gowda/article33663685.ece
26 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Sasikala now asymptomatic||V.K. Sasikala, aide of the former Tamil Nadu Chief Minister late Jayalalithaa, who tested positive for COVID-19 last week is now asymptomatic. A health bulletin issued by the Bangalore Medical College and Research Institute (BMRCI) on Monday afternoon stated that she was asymptomatic and was continuously being monitored. She is admitted in Victoria hospital. The bulletin issued by the hospital stated that she is stable and comfortable, walking with support and is consuming food normally. It added that that she was conscious, alert and well-oriented. Ms. Sasikala reported symptoms such as fever, breathlessness and cough, following which she was admitted to the State-run Bowring and Lady Curzon Medical College and Research Institute before being shifted to Victoria. She was initially diagnosed with severe acute respiratory illness (SARI) and a COVID-19 test had come negative. However, the second test showed that she was positive for COVID-19 and her CT Thorax reports had suggested that she has severe respiratory infection. C.R. Jayanthi, Director-cum-Dean of BMCRI, and Ramesh Krishna K., Medical Superintendent, in a media release on Monday stated that her pulse, blood pressure and respiratory rate were all normal. Her oxygen saturation was 98% with two litres of oxygen. Her blood sugar level was 256 as of 8 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sasikala-now-asymptomatic/article33663572.ece
26 January 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Applications invited for admission to Ayurveda/Homoeopathy, Unani courses||The Karnataka Examinations Authority (KEA) has invited online applications for admission to Ayurveda/Homoeopathy and Unani courses for the academic year 2020-21. KEA in a release said that Karnataka candidates who are qualified in UG NEET-2O20 but have not applied or not verified their documents can apply online and attend the document verification, if they are interested in AYUSH courses. The release said that GoI has reduced the UGNEET-2020 percentile for admission to UG AYUSH courses and the candidates who become eligible due to reduction of UGNEET-2O2O percentile can register online, if they have not registered with KEA earlier and attend the document verification with all original documents. Reduced percentile details are hosted on the KEA website. Karnataka candidates who have already registered and verified their documents with KEA need not apply, the release said. For details, visit KEA websitehttp://kea.kar.nic.in./||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/applications-invited-for-admission-to-ayurvedahomoeopathy-unani-courses/article33663581.ece
26 January 2021||BENGaLURU,KARNATAKA||TPI Bhavan inauguration||TPI Bhavan, the registered headquarters of the Institute of Chartered Tax Practitioners of India, will be inaugurated in Bengaluru on Tuesday. The institute will work as an incubation centre to cater the needs of tax practitioners in the nation, aimed to specially strengthen the aptitudes of GST practitioners, to transform them as non-litigant propagators making a gateway to become self reliant, said a release D.P. Nagendra Kumar, Principal Chief Commissioner of Central Taxes, Bengaluru, and M.S. Srikar, Commissioner of Commercial Taxes in Karnataka, Benglauru, will participate. The office is located on 26th Cross, 9th Main Road, Banashankari II Stage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tpi-bhavan-inauguration/article33663853.ece
26 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||K.S.N. birth anniversary fete today||The K.S. Narasimhaswamy Trust will celebrate the birth anniversary of the noted poet on Tuesday. As part of celebration, it has organised a lecture on ‘K.S.N. Kaavyadalli Novu, Nalivu’ by poet Dundiraj. The programme will be held at K.S. Narasimhaswamy Park, Kathriguppe Main Road, Banashankari, near Water Tank, at 5 p.m. Awards The trust has chosen the former Vice-Chancellor of Kannada University, Hampi, Mallika Ganti, and Sugama Sangeeta singer H.R. Leelavati for the K.S.N. Kaavya Prashasti and K.S.N. Kaavyagayana Prashasti for 2020 and 2021, respectively. The award, carrying a purse of Rs. 25,000, will be presented to them next month, said a release from the trust.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ksn-birth-anniversary-fete-today/article33663683.ece
26 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||TKM to set up health centre in Bidadi||Toyota Kirloskar Motor on Monday conducted the ground-breaking ceremony to set up a modern Community Health Centre (CHC) in Bidadi to provide quality healthcare to the local communities. As per the company, the new CHC facility, when ready, will benefit more than 1,20,000 people from the local communities, besides highway accident victims. The centre will be maintained by the Health Department. The construction of the CHC is likely to be completed in the next 24 to 30 months, at an investment of Rs. 12 crore. Apart from constructing the facility, TKM will also invest in building outpatient rooms for paediatrics, OBG, anaesthetics, and dental specialities. The CSR project was conceived following an appeal to corporates by the Ramanagaram District Health Office to build infrastructure to cater to the increasing local demand for quality healthcare, said TKM.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tkm-to-set-up-health-centre-in-bidadi/article33663684.ece
26 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||375 new cases, testing dips||As many as 375 new COVID-19 cases were reported on Monday. However, the number of tests conducted has been on the decline in the past few days. On Sunday, only 59,427 COVID-19 tests were conducted. The total number of positive cases stands at 9.36 lakh. As many as 1,036 patients were discharged on Monday, taking the total recoveries in the State to 9.17 lakh. Of the total 6,864 active cases in the State, 152 were admitted in ICUs at designated hospitals. As many as three deaths due to COVID-19 were reported on Monday, taking the total number of deaths to 12,200. The positivity rate for the day stands at 0.63%, while the case fatality rate of the day stands at 0.8%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/375-new-cases-testing-dips/article33663576.ece
26 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Reality show contestant found dead||A Kannada reality show contestant, Jayashree, allegedly ended her life at a rehab centre on the outskirts of the city on Sunday. Jayashree had been admitted to the rehab centre on December 20 for treatment of depression. The incident came to light after her family called her to check on her, but got no response. The family members alerted the staff, who rushed to her room and found her dead, the police said. The Madanayakanahalli police have taken up a case of unnatural death and are investigating to ascertain the reason. ( Those in distress or those having suicidal tendencies can call Arogya Sahayavani Ph: 104 for help )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/reality-show-contestant-found-dead/article33663568.ece
26 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Emulate Delhi model’||Congress MLA and former Minister K.R. Ramesh Kumar on Monday commended changes brought about by Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal in the fields of healthcare, education, water, electricity and other basic necessities in the national capital and underlined the necessity of replicating the same in the State. He said that during his tenure as the Health Minister he had visited Delhi and was surprised with the way mohalla clinics and government schools worked. He was impressed by the changes implemented by the CM in Delhi, Mr. Kumar said after his visit to the Aam Aadmi clinic located at Shantinagar on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/emulate-delhi-model/article33663844.ece
26 January 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Shivamogga police launch ERSS||The Shivamogga police launched the Emergency Response Support System (ERSS) in Shivamogga on Monday. Public can dial 112 for emergency response from the police. S. Ravi, IGP of Eastern Range, flagged off 18 special vehicles allotted to the district in a programme on the day. Mr. Ravi said the public could contact the staff of ERSS by dialling 112. The staff members, who receive the call, will get necessary details from the public and respond to them immediately. The nearest vehicle would be sent to the spot and the caller would get a message on his/her mobile phone. In future, ambulance services would also be attached to ERSS, he said. K.M. Shantaraju, Shivamogga SP, said the department had allotted 18 vehicles to the district. Of them, Shivamogga sub-division would get six vehicles and three each for Bhadravati, Sagar, Shikaripura, and Thirthahalli sub-divisions. In future, mobile-based application and Twitter handles would be activated to extend the ERRS services.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/shivamogga-police-launch-erss/article33663672.ece
26 January 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Shivamogga blast: Four arrested||The Shivamogga police have arrested four persons in connection with the Hunasodu blast that occurred on January 21. They have been identified as B.V. Sudhakar, 57, Narasimha, 39, Mumtaz Ahmed, 50, all of Shivamogga, and Rasheed, 44, of Bhadravati. S. Ravi, Inspector-General of Police, Eastern Range, said at a press conference in Shivamogga on Monday that two vehicles, including one that carried the explosives, were damaged in the blast. The four have been arrested on charges of ignoring the rules with regard to handling explosives, he said. It was suspected that Praveen, who was killed in the incident, procured the explosives and that he had been in the business of distributing explosives to those who needed them, the IGP added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/shivamogga-blast-four-arrested/article33663687.ece
26 January 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Farmers extend support to rally||Raitha Sangha and many progressive organisations have extended their support to the farmers’ rally to be held in Bengaluru. Hundreds of farmers and members of other organisations will participate in the rally from Shivamogga, Chikkamagaluru and Hassan districts. Around 700 people from Shivamogga district are expected to take part in the rally in Bengaluru. K.L. Ashok, State convener of Komu Souharda Vedike, told The Hindu that around 700 people would travel to Bengaluru in vehicles. Those who do not travel will take part in the rally in Shivamogga. K.P. Sripal, advocate and spokesperson of Swaraj India party, said nearly 300 vehicles would take part in the protest in Shivamogga town. Former Minister Kagodu Thimmappa is expected to take part in the rally in Shivamogga.  More than 300 people, from Hassan district, are expected to participate in the rally in Bengaluru. Mehboob Pasha, district president of Karnataka Rajya Raitha Snagha toldThe Hinduthat farmers would join the rally in Bengaluru in private vehicles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/farmers-extend-support-to-rally/article33663673.ece
26 January 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Lack of coordination upsets Minister||Minister for Large and Medium Industries and Dharwad district in-charge Jagadish Shettar has expressed displeasure over the lack of coordination among officials of different government agencies during execution of various works. The Minister inspected road work taken up under Central Road Fund (CRF) from Gadag Road to Sarvodaya Circle in Hubballi on Monday and noticed the lack of coordination among the officials of Karnataka Urban Water Supply and Drainage Board (KUWS&DB), National Highway Authority and Hubballi Dharwad Municipal Corporation (HDMC). The Minister did not hide his displeasure and took the officials to task, especially those belonging to the KUWS&DB. When Municipal Commissioner Suresh Itnal pointed out that the corporation had released Rs. 2.5 crore towards laying water supply pipeline on either sides of the road, the Minister called up the water board chief engineer Keshav and directed him to process the files immediately and initiate the pipeline laying work. Expressing displeasure over the lethargic attitude, he said that he failed to understand this attitude. “The chief engineer says, lower level officials have not brought the issue to his notice. How is that an arterial road of the city is not relaid for years? If every time a legislator or Minister has to come and tell you to take up work, then, why you officials are here?” he asked. The Minister also sought to know what was the problem even after the required funds had been released for the works. “Do I have to come every time to hold coordination meeting between officials. If you officials see the work, will you not come to know what has happened? Try to take interest and work voluntarily,” he told the officials. The Minister also told them that because of the officials lethargy and lack of coordination, they (Ministers) had to bear the brunt of the public. Earlier, Mr. Shettar visited JC Nagar and Station Road, where roads are being laid under the Smart City Scheme and asked the officials to expedite the work. He asked them to first complete the underground drainage work and take up road works immediately after. He also told them to ensure completion of the road works by May. Regarding the construction debris being dumped on roads, Mr. Shettar asked the officials to book cases. Managing Director of Hubballi Dharwad Smart City Limited Shakeel Ahmed, Deputy Executive Engineer of NHAI Vijaykumar, Executive Engineer of KUWS&DB D. Suresh and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/lack-of-coordination-upsets-minister/article33663563.ece
26 January 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||‘Govt. committed to fulfilling demands of RTC workers’||Deputy Chief Minister and Transport Minister Laxman Savadi has said that the State government is committed to fulfilling all the nine demands of the State road transport corporation employees. Speaking to media persons after inaugurating the new bus station at Kalghatgi in Dharwad district on Sunday, Mr. Savadi said that the COVID-19-induced lockdown and subsequent restrictions had resulted in losses to the tune of Rs. 3,700 crore to the four road transport corporations in the State. Considering the losses incurred by the RTCs, the State government has so far released Rs. 1,746 crore towards the salaries of the 1.30 lakh employees of these transport corporations, he said. On the financial position of the four RTCs, he said that when he took charge as Transport Minister, the RTCs had together cumulative losses to the tune of Rs. 3,000 crore of which the government is to pay Rs. 2,980 crore. Subsequent lockdown had further increased the losses and post lockdown, the RTCs were yet to reach the pre-lockdown levels of finances, he said. The Minister said that following the pandemic, the number of passengers travelling by public transport buses had come down drastically. Electric buses The Minister said that 350 electric buses will soon be procured in the State. The Union government has permitted the State to purchase 350 electric buses. While Bengaluru will get 300 electric buses, Dharwad district will get 50, he said. With nearly 2,000 buses waiting to be scrapped after having seen operations for over one lakh kilometres, the government is planning to convert them into toilets or bathrooms. He said that the government is looking for MLAs and MPs who will use their local area development funds to procure these old buses and convert them into toilets and bathrooms. Regarding the dissent over Cabinet expansion, he said that there was nothing wrong in legislators seeking Ministerial posts and the minor differences will be sorted out soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-committed-to-fulfilling-demands-of-rtc-workers/article33663561.ece
26 January 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Railway staff complete training in civil defence||With a 60-member batch of railway staff under the South Western Railway Civil Defence Organisation completing training in civil defence, a live demonstration and mock drill on how to respond during emergencies was conducted in Hubballi on Monday. The mock drill was held at the Railway Supervisors Rest House, Tungabhadra, near Hubballi Railway Station. According to a press release, the highest number (60) of railway staff have completed training and it is the highest ever since the railway zone came into existence. In the mock drill carried out in the presence of South Western Railway General Manager A.K. Singh, Civil Defence personnel showcased various methods and technique pertaining to rescue operations during casualties on ground as well as those pertaining to high rise buildings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/railway-staff-complete-training-in-civil-defence/article33663560.ece
26 January 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Union decides to transfer profit to producers by increasing milk price||Kalaburagi, Bidar and Yadgir Co-operative Milk Producers Societies Union Limited has decided to transfer Rs. 2 crore profit to milk producers by increasing milk price, union president R.K. Patil has said. Addressing a media conference in Kalaburagi on Monday, Mr. Patil said that the union had decided to increase the price for cow milk by Rs. 2 a litre and buffalo milk by Rs. 3 a litre. The new rates will come into effect on Tuesday. The increase will now take the price of cow milk to Rs. 27.60 a litre and buffalo milk to Rs. 34.80 a litre. “This is the biggest increase in milk rate in the last 25 years. We could have kept the profit with the union for other purposes. But, we have decided to disburse it among milk producers in the form of increasing milk rate for safeguarding their interests,” Mr. Patil said. Mr. Patil said that, except for the Dakshina Kannada Milk Union, no other union has increased milk rate as much as the Kalaburagi union has done. “The Kalaburagi Milk Union is doing better these days. The supply of milk products by private suppliers from Maharashtra was disturbed during the COVID-19 lockdown and consumers shifted to Nandini products from the Kalaburagi Milk Union. And, consumers continue to purchase Nandini products even after the lockdown. This is the major reason for the profit,” Mr. Patil said. He said that the union had slashed fodder price as well to help milk producers during summer. “At present, the union collects 51,000 litres of milk every day. Production is expected to come down in the summer as there will be scarcity of fodder. That is why we have slashed fodder price from Rs. 18,900 a tonne to Rs. 17,900 a tonne. This is a great relief for the producers,” he said. When asked whether the union had any plans to transfer the profit to consumers, Mr. Patil said that the union will bring down the price of Nandini products if the profits further go up. “We are committed to safeguarding the interests of both producers and consumers,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/union-decides-to-transfer-profit-to-producers-by-increasing-milk-price/article33663557.ece
26 January 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Internalise Constitutional values to strengthen democracy, people told||Stressing the importance of elections in a democracy, Regional Commissioner N.V. Prasad has urged voters to actively participate in elections and uphold the dignity of democracy. Addressing a gathering after flagging off National Voters Day activities at the Chandrashekhar Patil Stadium here on Monday, Mr. Prasad said that the campaign was aimed at making the citizenry aware and prudent electors. “Elections play an important role in any democracy. The citizens should be informed and prudent in their choices in the elections. This campaign would help them in this direction,” he said. Deputy Commissioner Vijaya Jyothsna, who presided over the event, urged the people to understand and internalise Constitutional values to strengthen democracy. “The pandemic has disrupted the process of voter enrolment this year. We are, therefore, visiting every house to enrol all those who have completed 18 years of age in the electoral roll. It is the responsibility of booth-level officers to ensure that no eligible voter is missed in the electoral roll in their respective areas,” Ms. Jyotshna said. Mr. Prasad administered the oath and distributed the awards to the booth-level officers who performed well in the voter awareness activities. Zilla Panchayat Chief Executive Officer Raja P, Additional Deputy Commissioner Shankarappa Vanikyal, Assistant Commissioner Balaram Lamani and other senior officers were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/internalise-constitutional-values-to-strengthen-democracy-people-told/article33663555.ece
26 January 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Conference today in Basavakalyan||The Constitution Protection Committee, Basavakalyan, will organise an awareness conference on Vachana literature and the Constitution at Akkamahadevi Maidan in Basavakalyan, Bidar district, on Tuesday. Leader of Opposition in the Assembly Siddaramaiah will inaugurate the event. Bhalki MLA and Congress Working President Eshwar Khandre, Humnabad MLA Rajashekhar Patil, Bidar MLA Rahim Khan, MLCs Arvind Arali and Vijay Singh will be among those who will address the gathering. “The Indian Constitution has incorporated many noble values such as secularism from the Vachana literature which was used by Sharanas [reformers] as a tool to enlighten the people and infuse confidence among them to fight against social injustice in the 12th Century. The values of the Vachanas and the Constitution are under threat today. We are organising this conference on Republic Day to spread awareness,” Mujahid Pasha Qureshi, honorary president of the organising committee, said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/conference-today-in-basavakalyan/article33663553.ece
26 January 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘Hallige Nadeyiri Jilladhikarigale’ pilot in Udupi||Revenue Minister R. Ashok on Monday announced that the State government’s ambitious scheme, “Hallige Nadeyiri Jilladhikarigale” (Visit villages, Deputy Commissioners), will be launched on a pilot basis in Udupi district on January 30. Udupi district administration had shown its commitment by successfully conducting the pilot for distributing old age pension on the doorstep of beneficiaries, which would be launched State-wide by Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa in Bengaluru on Wednesday. Speaking after laying the foundation stone for the Mini Vidhana Soudha at the headquarters of the newly created taluk Kaup, Mr. Ashok directed Deputy Commissioner G. Jagadeesha to formally launch the State-wide pilot of “Hallige Nadeyiri Jilladhikarigale”. The programme would be held in all districts on the third Saturday of every month. It will organised on the next day, if such a Saturday happens to be a holiday. Senior Revenue Department officials, including the Deputy Commissioner, would visit different villages in their districts on the day to address problems being faced by people with regard to revenue matters. The issues include old age pension, caste certificates, among others, he said. In addition, senior officials should have their meals at a nearby government institution such as an anganwadi and a BCM hostel. This would ensure that complaints with regard to food served in such places too were addressed, he said. Mr. Ashok said that he too would join the officials at some point. He added that the attempt to send senior officials, including Deputy Commissioners, Assistant Commissioners and Tahsildars, to villages was to ensure that the shortcomings in the functioning of the department were addressed in the next two years. He noted that the administrative machinery would remain alert once officials know senior officials would be camping in the village for the day and strive to address the issues before hand. Lauding Mr. Jagadeesha for successfully implementing the pilot for old age pension on the doorsteps of beneficiaries, Mr. Ashok asked him to give a presentation on the project during the scheme’s State-wide launch by the Chief Minister on Wednesday. First-hand experiences were worth emulating, the Minister said and added that due to such initiatives Udupi ranked first for the 14th month running into department rankings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hallige-nadeyiri-jilladhikarigale-pilot-in-udupi/article33664024.ece
26 January 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||CSP seeks sea ambulance to attend to emergencies||Following demand by fishermen, the Coastal Security Police (CSP) and the Department of Fisheries have asked the State government to sanction a dedicated sea ambulance. The neighbouring Kerala Government deployed sea ambulance in August 2020. Talking to reporters after a live demonstration of the working of the CSP, Superintendent of Police of CSP R. Chetan said that since its inception in 2010, the CSP staff have rescued 460 fishermen in 82 operations conduced in nine Coastal Security Police stations in Dakshina Kannada, Udupi and Uttara Kannada. There was a need to upgrade facilities, including the deployment of a sea ambulance, which will help in effectively rescuing fishermen in trouble in the sea. The sea ambulance will have a doctor and paramedical staff on board who can provide emergency treatment to fishermen who take ill on boats and save their life. “The rescue acts by CSP have underscored the need for upgrading facilities that can save lives of those in the seas,” Mr. Chetain said. While protection of the 320-km long the State’s coastline was its main duty, the CSP was also concerned of the welfare of the fishermen in the sea. As many as 18 of the 200 staffs of the CSP have undergone training in patrolling and rescue operations at the National Academy of Coastal Policing, Okha, Gujarat, he said. Five-tonne and 12-tonne capacity boats used by the CSP, Mr. Chetan said, were not effective in sea rescue operations. Apart from sea ambulance, the CSP has sought six aquatic bikes to increase the fleet to nine, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/csp-seeks-sea-ambulance-to-attend-to-emergencies/article33664030.ece
26 January 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Student working to provide gadget support to farmers in trying times||The sky-rocketing wages of agricultural labourers, the absence of skilled labour, and decreasing farm yield inspired the creation of a gadget with which farmers could single-handedly sow seeds and do a host of other activities, including soil testing, said I PU student Rakeshkrishna K. during an interaction with the Prime Minister here on Monday. Mr. Rakeshkrishna, 16, who hails from Bannur in Puttur taluk, was among six of 32 Pradhan Mantri Rashtriya Bal Puraskar awardees who had a virtual interaction with the Prime Minister through videoconference. Mr. Rakeshkrishna and 10-year-old Veer Kashyap from Bengaluru were among the nine children conferred with the award in the innovation category. Mr. Rakeshkrishna was the fourth student to interact with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday. The names of Mr. Kashyap and 25 other children were taken by the Prime Minister and he spoke briefly about their work. He said that paucity of time did not permit him to speak with every awardee. When asked about what inspired him to take up the cause of farmers, Mr. Rakeshkrishna, who is pursing science in I PUC, told Mr. Modi that he came from a farmer’s family and his father, Ravishankar K., was an agriculturist. “I know the problems farmers are facing, namely sky-rocketing labour charges and absence of skilled labour. The machine (a multi-purpose seedographer) developed by me makes it easy for farmers to sow seeds and do other activities,” he said. He has been working on further improving his machine, which he first developed when he was in class 7. The past six months, when he was at home for online classes because of COVID-19 restrictions, helped him to work on new features. “I want my machine to help farmers do multiple tasks in the field,” he said. More improvements He has used the machine for sowing vegetable seeds, paddy, ragi, and jowar in his field with the right mix of water and manure. “As I am further refining the machine, I have not pursued offers by entrepreneurs to take forward the prototype,” he told the Prime Minister. This prototype was exhibited at the Festival of Innovation held at Rashtrapati Bhavan in March 2017. He thanked his father, mother Durgarathna C., and sister Rashmi Parvati, who has also made her mark as a young innovator, for supporting his work. He also recalled the research support he received from his teachers at Vivekananda English-Medium School, Puttur, and his lecturers of Expert PU College.  I know the problems farmers are facing, namely sky-rocketing labour charges and absence of skilled labour. The machine developed by me makes it easy for farmers to sow seeds and do other activities K. Rakeshkrishna,first-year PU student and recepient of Pradhan Mantri Rashtriya Bal Puraskar||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/student-working-to-provide-gadget-support-to-farmers-in-trying-times/article33663692.ece
26 January 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Govt. to hand over gomal land to cow shelters||Revenue Minister R. Ashok on Monday said that the government was contemplating handing over Gomal land to Go Shalas being run by the government, NGOs and religious institutions. Speaking to reporters in Udupi, Mr. Ashok said that government support, including providing land for Go Shalas, is necessary to protect indigenous cow progeny. The government will soon formulate a policy on this before handing over Gomal land. He has also received a letter from Udupi Pejawar Mutt Seer Sri Vishwa Prasanna Tirtha Swamiji in this connection, he said. Meanwhile, a communiqué from the mutt here said that the swamiji has informed the Minister that thousands acres of of Gomal land in the State have already been encroached upon. Still, there was some extent of Gomal land intact and if they were handed over to Go Shalas, the move would go a long way in cow protection, the swamiji said. The government has to give priority towards cow protection following the promulgation of the Karnataka Prevention of Slaughter and Preservation of Cattle Ordinance 2020, he said. Udupi MLA K. Raghupathi Bhat was present. Kumki land Speaking about Kumki land, Soppina Betta and Baane land, Mr. Ashok said that there has been a continuous tug of war between governments and farmers on the issue from the British period itself. While farmers claim that such land, acting as buffer for their agricultural land, governments have claimed that they (such occupation) were encroachments. Vast extents of such land were encroached upon in Malnad region as well as in the coastal area. The government would have to formulate a policy. Several coffee and tea estate owners have encroached upon vast extents of such land and are earning considerable revenue, while there was no return for the government. As such, the government will take a decision about leasing out such land for long tenures and earn revenue too, Mr. Ashok said. He further said that the Forest Department has agreed to return about 6 lakh acres of deemed forest land to the Revenue Department. The government will hand over these land parcels to those who have already been cultivating them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-to-hand-over-gomal-land-to-cow-shelters/article33664026.ece
26 January 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||MRPL launches vermicompost facility||A state-of-the-art vermicompost facility that can convert 90 tonnes of solid waste into about 24 tonnes of compost was inaugurated on the Mangalore Refinery and Petrochemicals (MRPL) campus here on Monday. Joint Secretary (Refineries), Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas, Sunil Kumar inaugurated the facility that has three vermicompost units set up at a cost of Rs. 1.4 crore, said a release. Spread over about 2,000 acres, the MRPL campus generates significant amount of solid waste and it chose vermicomposting to convert nearly 90 tonnes per year waste into 24 tonnes of compost. The process will help MRPL manage solid waste within campus but also provide quality manure for the over 500 acres of green belt inside the refinery A special breed of worm Eudrilus eugeniae , also called the African Nightcrawler, is used in the vermicomposting process at MRPL. This species is native to tropical West Africa and is being chosen for this process due to its fecund growth and ability to decompost quickly. Each worm is capable of decomposting 4 kg of solid waste per day. Led by Managing Director M. Venkatesh, MRPL officials explained to Mr. Kumar the various environmental-friendly initiatives being taken up by the company.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mrpl-launches-vermicompost-facility/article33664034.ece
26 January 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Padma Vibhushan for B.M. Hegde||Well-known health professional and a critic of the way health professionals have commercialised health care, Belle Monappa Hegde, popular as B.M. Hedge, has been conferred with Padma Vibhushan. He has been conferred the highest civilian honour for his contribution in the field of medicine. He is among the seven to receive the honour. In a brief reaction with reporters here on Monday, Dr. Hegde said that the award signifies a lot as it recognises an individual and also the fraternity of doctors. It was in 2010 that he was conferred with Padma Bhushan. These awards inspire me to work more for society, Dr. Hegde said. Dr. Hegde, a doctor of medicine, still continues to be a physician for many in state and across the country. This senior doctor was a Fellow of Royal College of Physicians, London, Edinburgh, Glasgow and Dublin in Ireland. He was a Fellow of American College of Cardiology and also a Fellow of Academy of Medicine, Singapore.  A well-known writer, Dr. Hegde’s “What Doctors Don’t Get to Study in Medical School”, which has been reprinted four times since 2006, has been a popular one. In his introduction to the book, Dr. Hegde says that his dream is to see doctors get back their due place as healers and not as sellers of drugs and technology. “Let us have the humility to accept our weakness and accept the best from other (forms of medicine) without fear or favour. Ultimately doctors are here to maintain the health of society and not just dole out quick fixes to the sick,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/padma-vibhushan-for-bm-hegde/article33664029.ece
26 January 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||4,321 workers vaccinated||As many as 2,247 health professionals received COVID-19 vaccine at 183 vaccination centres in Dakshina Kannada on Monday. A total of 2,074 health workers received the jab in Udupi. The first phase of vaccination resumed on Monday in Dakshina Kannada following a two-day break after a six-day-long vaccination drive. Of the total of 52,381 health workers, so far 8,991 health workers (17.16%) have been vaccinated. Of the 13,396 health workers in Udupi, 6,890 health workers (51.4 %) have received the jab till Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/4321-workers-vaccinated/article33664031.ece
26 January 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Buy fallow land, return to nature||Environmental activist G.N. Ashoka Vardhana on Sunday suggested to environment enthusiasts that they could buy fallow agriculture lands adjacent to forests and return them to nature. “That way, we can contribute our bit to environment that has been the victim of human interference,” he said. Except retaining a kuttcha road formed by erstwhile land owners and setting up the container house for research, he has not not interfered with the original characteristics of the land, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/buy-fallow-land-return-to-nature/article33663856.ece
26 January 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Youth trapped in landslip||A youth from Ujire is suspected to have been trapped under earth following a landslip near a water falls at Bangarapalike village, a remote place on the Western Ghats in Belthangaday taluk of Dakshina Kannada district, on Monday. According to information reaching here, a group of youth came to the village from Ujire on Sunday. On Monday, the group went to the falls. As a youth from the group tried to reach atop the falls, there was a landslip and he is feared trapped in a heap of earth. A team of Revenue Department personnel, including Malavnthige Village Accountant, has rushed to the spot. The area is part of the Kudremukh National Park and earthmovers cannot reach the place as there is no road connectivity. Rescuers have to manually remove the mud that has fallen on the youth, the local villagers said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/youth-trapped-in-landslip/article33663564.ece
26 January 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||ORR: Stricter rules to crack down on waste dumpers on the anvil||Taking a tough stand against those dumping waste illegally on the sides of Outer Ring Road (ORR), marring Mysuru’s clean image, Minister in-charge of the district S.T. Somashekar on Monday told MCC and MUDA officials to book cases against owners of transport vehicles that dump waste on the road and seize their vehicles. Speaking at a meeting organised in MUDA in connection with improving hygiene around the Outer Ring Road and addressing waste dumping on ORR, he said Mysuru should not go the Bengaluru way and the issue needs serious handling. “We need to act tough against the dumpers bringing in stricter rules,” the Minister told the Commissioner of Mysuru City Corporation Gurudatta Hegde. In Bengaluru, those dumping waste at undesignated spots are booked and their vehicles seized. Wrongdoers should be prosecuted to send a strong message against indiscriminate dumping of waste, he told the meeting. The Bengaluru model has helped in handling the issue to some extent with decrease in the dumping of waste at undesignated spots. The same policy can be replicated in Mysuru too, he felt, adding that the city police should support the local bodies in addressing the problems faced by them. “All of us must come together and bring in changes to the laws for addressing the problems over soil waste,” the Minister suggested. Calling for making Mysuru a “garbage-free” city, Mr. Somashekar said the steps taken to handle and address solid waste problems in Bengaluru could be implemented in Mysuru. More professional way of handling solid wastes is essential if the city needs to be freed from dumping of waste. Joint action teams The Minister directed constituting joint action teams consisting of staff from the Mysuru City Corporation, the Mysuru Urban Development Authority, and the city police to identify those dumping waste illegally along the road. A crucial meeting has been convened at the Government House on Tuesday at 9.30 a.m. in connection with finding a permanent solution to the problems, especially the way the garbage issue has affected the hygiene around the Outer Ring Road. The MCC and MUDA had been told to improve coordination among themselves for bringing an end to the problem of dumping of solid wastes and building debris on the ORR. They need to work as a team, seeking support from the PWD, the National Highways, and the State Highways, for finding permanent remedies to the problems since the ORR has become a major link for connecting with the localities across the city, besides accessing the State and the National highways.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/orr-stricter-rules-to-crack-down-on-waste-dumpers-on-the-anvil/article33663669.ece
26 January 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Sandalwood Museum may be shifted to zoo campus: Minister||Minister in-charge of Mysuru district S.T. Somashekar on Monday said the newly inaugurated Sandalwood Museum, developed by the Forest Department at Aranya Bhavan in Ashokapuram, may soon be shifted to the precincts of the Mysuru zoo as the earlier plan of relocating it to the Mysuru palace premises has been dropped for now owing to space constraint. “Though we wished to shift the museum to the palace premises, it cannot happen immediately as there is no space for housing the museum. As an alternative, we have thought of relocating it to the zoo premises. A decision will be taken after a spot inspection of the zoo building by the forest officials,” said Mr. Somashekar, after inaugurating the museum. He told reporters here that the museum, said to be a unique one in the State, may not attract visitors if it is located at Aranya Bhavan. Since the palace and the zoo attract visitors, the purpose for which it has been set up will be served if it is shifted there, he argued. The Minister said the Mysuru Palace Board had sought time to build space for the museum but this may take a while. “We came to know the zoo has space and we thought of considering it as we want information on sandalwood to reach the maximum number of people.” Safety aspects will also be looked into while relocating the museum since it has exhibits of many varieties of sandalwood and artefacts. The Minister said sandalwood can be cultivated by anybody in their lands and added that the opportunities for its cultivation are aplenty now. On the thefts of sandalwood trees, he said such instances had decreased with the department ensuring that the accused are prosecuted. Asked what’s in store for Mysuru in the ensuing State Budget, Mr. Somashekar said the State has started improving in its revenue front only in the last two months with the pandemic hitting its resources. No major development works can be foreseen like before with the finances yet to recover fully. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa said during the party legislative meeting that the budget would be downsized by over Rs. 25,000 crore. Yet, we will submit a list of works that Mysuru needs and seek allocation in the Budget, he told reporters. Ahead of this, a meeting of all important personalities of Mysuru will be convened to discuss the needs of Mysuru to take it on the development path and the same would be conveyed to the Chief Minister, he added. Mysuru MP Pratap Simha, MLA S.A. Ramdas, and senior forest officials were present during the inauguration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sandalwood-museum-may-be-shifted-to-zoo-campus-minister/article33663678.ece
26 January 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Don’t stifle farmers’ protest, DKS tells govt.||Taking serious except to the State government’s decision to block the entry of tractors into Bengaluru for the farmers’ rally scheduled for Tuesday, Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president D.K. Shivakumar has urged the government to allow farmers to exercise their constitutional right to protest. Speaking to reporters in Mysuru on Monday, Mr. Shivakumar said everybody has a right to protest and give voice to their problems. “Don’t stifle the voice of farmers who put food on our plates,” the Congress leader told the BJP government in the State. When his attention was drawn to the reason cited by the government that entry of tractors in large numbers into Bengaluru would create traffic chaos, Mr. Shivakumar said Tuesday would be a holiday on account of Republic Day and no vehicular bottlenecks will be created on a holiday. Referring to the reports of police detaining tractors in different parts of the State and threatening the drivers, Mr. Shivakumar said the police should not behave as “puppets” of the State government. There is a constitutional provision for everybody to protest and the police should facilitate the farmers to exercise their democratic right to protest. “Even the Supreme Court told the farmers that they are free to protest,” Mr. Shivakumar said, referring to the apex court’s observation on the protest in the national capital. He said farmers were “sons of the soil” and assured to stand by them in the protest. “If the tractors are seized, we will stand by the farmers. I have instructed the farmers’ wing of the Congress to support their fight,” he said. Cong.-BJP coalition Mr. Shivakumar dubbed the BJP government in Karnataka as a “Congress-BJP” coalition after claiming that Congress MLAs went to the BJP and “gifted” the saffron party an opportunity to form the government. The Congress leader was apparently referring to the crossover of several Congress MLAs to the BJP in 2019 that paved the way for the B.S. Yediyurappa government to come to power. When his attention was drawn to the trouble in the government over the Cabinet expansion and allocation of portfolios, Mr. Shivakumar chose to sarcastically give a reaction by repeating the claims of the BJP leaders. “They have no differences. They have enough numbers and their government is stable”.  KPCC chief D.K. Shivakumar has urged the government to allow farmers to exercise their constitutional right to protest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dont-stifle-farmers-protest-dks-tells-govt/article33663676.ece
26 January 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Report on quarrying threat to KRS back in focus||The threat to Krishnaraja Sagar from quarry blasting activities in its vicinity has come under focus again, with the Congress citing a report submitted by the Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre (KSNDMC) that had recorded tremors experienced by the dam because of quarrying. The KSNDMC, which has installed a VSAT-enabled Permanent Seismic Monitoring Station at KRS, had sent a report to the government in September 2018 emphasising the need to regulate quarrying activities in the vicinity. It stated that the activities posed harm to the safety of the dam, which not only irrigates vast tracts of lands but also provides drinking water to several cities in Karnataka and the neighbouring Tamil Nadu. In the wake of the blast in Shivamogga, KPCC spokesman M. Lakshmana told reporters the government had turned a blind eye to the concerns of the people as well as government agencies such as KSNDMC by allowing quarrying and blasting to continue around the reservoir. “It is a serious matter. More than four crore people are dependent on thedam.” Officials of the Mines and Geology Department in Mandya admitted that there were more than 50 quarries, including 49 illegal ones, operating in a radius of 20 km from the reservoir. Department officials claim they were understaffed and have pointed out that most of the illegal quarries were run by relatives of powerful politicians, Mr. Lakshmana claimed. Saying that the dam was almost 90 years old, Mr. Lakshmana said the government should take up the matter seriously and crack down on illegal quarrying in its vicinity, particularly in Baby Betta area. He said the seismic monitoring station at KRS had recorded two “signatures” coming from a radial distance of around 10.5 km, which is around the same radial distance in which the stone crusher quarry area of Baby Betta is located.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/report-on-quarrying-threat-to-krs-back-in-focus/article33663688.ece
26 January 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Mysuru’s first e-charging station now a reality||Mysuru’s first public electric vehicle charging station has come up on the premises of the corporate office of the Chamundeshwari Electricity Supply Corporation (CESC) in Vijayanagara, off Hunsur Road. The charging station will be launched for public use on the occasion of Republic Day on Tuesday. Thanks to the Karnataka Electric Vehicle and Energy Storage Policy 2017, the CESC, in a bid to encourage the public to make use of the zero emission vehicles for their commuting needs, has established the charging station. The Centre and the State governments were encouraging manufacture and use of electric vehicles for ensuring zero emission, and the charging station is one of the key facility in taking the agenda of green transport forward. A firm from Bengaluru has installed AC and DC charger at the CESC office. On an experimental basis, AC-001 and Bharat DC-001 (15W) charger had been installed, aiding the charging of two-wheeler and four-wheeler e-vehicles. A note from CESC said charging of vehicles is allowed during the working hours of the CESC office. With zero fee, the vehicles can be charged for the first three months. Later on, the CESC plans to collect a charging fee at “no profit and no loss” model.  CESC said charging of vehicles is allowed during working hours of the CESC office. With zero fee, the vehicles can be charged for the first three months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mysurus-first-e-charging-station-now-a-reality/article33663675.ece
26 January 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Importance of museum||The sandalwood museum developed at “Srigandha Koti” in Aranya Bhavan gains importance at a time when its reserves are fast depleting and there is a need to replenish the resource through dissemination of scientific, technical, and marketing information to farmers and others. Keeping this in mind, the Forest Department has developed the museum and the project tells persons interested to take up its commercial cultivation that is profitable, improving their financial status. In a hectare of land, excluding all overhead costs, a grower gets Rs. 3 cr., helping farmers become financially stable besides generating jobs, according to the department. Moreover, there is a big demand abroad for sandalwood for extracting oil and making crafts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/importance-of-museum/article33663680.ece
26 January 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Mysuru varsity evaluates B.Ed answer scripts digitally||The University of Mysore on Monday announced the results of the first-ever digitally evaluated answer scripts of B.Ed examination. The 2nd and 4th semester examinations were held in January this year, and the answer scripts were evaluated digitally from January 20 to 23. Of 4,155 students who appeared for the examination, 4,012 students have passed, said the Registrar (Evaluation) in a press release here. The results are available on the university’s website http://www.uni-mysore.ac.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mysuru-varsity-evaluates-bed-answer-scripts-digitally/article33663674.ece
26 January 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Driving on ORR unsafe||The issue over non-operational streetlights on the Outer Ring Road remains unaddressed despite warnings in the past by Ministers in-charge of Mysuru district to the MCC and the MUDA for resolving all hurdles for keeping the lights burning in the night for the safety of motorists and the residents using the service roads. The ORR and the service roads turn pitch dark with zero illumination on most stretches of the 42-km long four-lane road. It endangers the safety of residents, especially women and children, in the vicinity, with no action taken for resolving never-ending issues over the smooth operation of streetlights. Dangerous stretch It is dangerous to drive on the road after the nightfall and the authorities have turned blind to the problem, citing rules and technical reasons, with the road being handed over to the National Highways, said residents of Bogadi. “When they collect tax from us, what prevents them from giving us minimum facilities and safe driving on the road,” they asked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/driving-on-orr-unsafe/article33663670.ece
26 January 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Deputy Chief Minister takes officials to task||Expressing serious displeasure over unhindered illegal sand extraction and gambling activities in Raichur district, Deputy Chief Minister Laxman Savadi has warned that he would recommend to the State government to take action against Raichur Deputy Commissioner and Superintendent of Police if they failed to stop them. Chairing the quarterly Karnataka Development Programme meeting in Raichur on Monday, Mr. Savadi took the officers to task when MLAs D.S. Hulageri and Basanagowda Daddal complained that illegal sand extraction was rampant in the district. They also said that matka (gambling) has been going on without hindrance in Lingsugur taluk and the officers concerned have failed to prevent such activities to keep society safe. Responding to them, Mr. Savadi, who is also district in-charge, said that “one year has already passed after I took charge of the district and I have been suggesting to officers to prevent all illegal activities. Despite repeated instructions, you are not taking it seriously and it seems that you are misusing my leniency. Now onwards, I will not excuse you. When officers fail to discharge their duties efficiently, the Deputy Commissioner, the Chief Executive Officer and the Superintendent of Police will be held accountable.” Continuing to question the officers, he, at one point, warned that “I would recommend to the State government to take action against the Deputy Commissioner and the Superintendent of Police if such illegal activities are not stopped immediately.” He then directed Deputy Commissioner R. Venkatesh Kumar to take initiatives to suspend Senior Scientist of Mines and Geology Department Vishwanath. The Deputy Chief Minister sharply asked the RTO “why did you not intercept trucks carrying sand illegally? You will have to face action in future if you do not work diligently.” Sanganna Karadi, MP, Shivaraj Patil, Venkatarao Nadagouda, Shivanagowda Naik, MLAs, Adimani Veeralakshmi, president of Zilla Panchayat, and district-level officers were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/deputy-chief-minister-takes-officials-to-task/article33663559.ece
26 January 2021||January 26 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Padma Vibhushan for B.M. Hegde||Renowned cardiologist, author and educator Dr. Belle Monappa Hegde has been awarded the Padma Vibhushan, the second highest civilian award in the country. Dr. Hegde is among seven personalities picked for the honour this year. On Monday, the Union government released the list of Padma awardees for 2021. Five eminent personalities from the State feature. Dr. Hegde joins the likes of the late legendary singer S.P. Balasubramaniam and Japan’s former Prime Minister Shinzo Abe to beconferred the award. Noted Kannada writer and Jnanpith awardee Chandrashekar Kambara has been conferred the Padma Bhushan for distinguished service in the field of literature and education. He is currently president of the Central Sahitya Akademi and is best known for this plays and poetry, which are deeply influenced by the folk idiom of north Karnataka. He was the founder vice-chancellor of Kannada University, Hampi. Three from the State have selected for Padma Shri awards. They are folk artist and first transperson to head Karnataka Janapada Academy B. Manjamma Jogati, Rangasami Lakshminarayana Kashyap for his contribution to literature and education, and K.Y. Venkatesh for distinguished service in sports. Dr. Hegde told reporters that the award signifies a lot as it recognises an individual and also the fraternity of doctors. In 2010, he was conferred the Padma Bhushan. “The awards inspire a person to work more for the society,” said Dr. Hegde, a member of the Fellow of Royal College of Physicians London, Edinburgh, Glasgow and Dublin. He is a fellow of American College of Cardiology and fellow of Academyof Medicine, Singapore.He has served as Vice Chancellor of Manipal University. As the dean of Kasturba Medical College, Mangaluru, he had groomed many doctors. A well-known writer, Dr. Hegde’s “What Doctors Don’t Get toStudy in Medical School” hasbeen reprinted four times since 2006.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/padma-vibhushan-for-bm-hegde/article33663842.ece
26 January 2021||January 26 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Delay in possession deals a double blow to homebuyers in city||Krishnan had invested in a house in an apartment complex in east Bengaluru in 2013. However, over seven years later, he is yet to see his new home. What he has been left with instead is the burden of an EMI and additional spending on rent at his existing temporary accommodation. “We were promised possession by September 2017. But even today, over 1,000 of us are stuck in a similar situation. There are more than 350 complaints against the project in the Real Estate Regulatory Authority, Karnataka (RERA-K), wherein we got mixed deadlines as verdicts. Some people opted for exit. There are complaints in the police station too. But nothing has eased our situation where we are paying home loan EMIs and rent, and seeing no progress in the project since three years. Even retired people have invested in the project. Our case is not even related to COVID-19,” he rued, as he spoke about the Rs. 50 lakh loan he has been repaying. With many housing projects stuck and the RERA-K giving extensions twice to builders in view of the pandemic, people who had invested in real estate have been dealt a double blow. According to private property consultant ANAROCK, in 2020, Bengaluru saw completion of 20 projects, comprising over 9,150 units, that had missed their deadline. Currently, 60 projects comprising 29,850 units worth over Rs. 22,276 crore are either stuck or delayed. These include all projects that were launched in 2013 or before, and are classified as ‘highly delayed’ units. Anuj Puri, chairman, ANAROCK Property Consultants, says, “Project delays have been the bane of the Indian real estate sector over the last decade. Even implementation of RERA had only a little impact on this. Among other factors, the liquidity crunch threw up roadblocks for developers.” RERA-K had extended the period of validity of registration of all registered projectsby six months in May last year, invoking the ‘Force Majeure’ clause. In December, a further extension of three months was given to projects whose completion date, revised completion date or extended completion date is expiring on or after March 15, 2021. But homebuyers are crying foul. “There is no specific State government order or direction to Karnataka RERA to provide such an extension. Even as per advisory of the government of India, the further extension of three months was to be exercised by RERA authorities on a case-to-case basis. However, the buyers are taken for granted where they are not getting any benefit and have the liability to pay both EMI and rent,” pointed out M.S. Shankar, general secretary, Forum for Peoples Collective Efforts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/delay-in-possession-deals-a-double-blow-to-homebuyers-in-city/article33663835.ece
26 January 2021||January 26 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Industrialist writes to PM||Industrialist Alam Pasha has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi appealing to seek the resignation of Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa and Mines & Geology Minister Murugesh Nirani. Mr. Pasha is the complainant in a denotification case in which Mr. Yediyurappa and Mr. Nirani are accused. The High Court had recently ordered a probe into the complaint. In the letter, he has accused the duo of misusing their power to harass him and frustrate the legal process initiated against them by the High Court. Mr. Nirani had hit back at him alleging that the industrial land allotted to Mr. Pasha was cancelled as he failed to pay the requisite fee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/industrialist-writes-to-pm/article33663852.ece
26 January 2021||January 26 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||BBMP aims for Water Plus ranking under Swachh Survekshan 2021||After bagging the ODF++ (open defecation free) certification, the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) is gunning for the Water Plus certification under Swachh Survekshan 2021. This certification is given to cities that have achieved safe, sustainable sanitation for all by ensuring that no untreated wastewater is discharged into the open environment, apart from ensuring adequate capacity of wastewater and sewage treatment facilities. For this, the civic body has already begun coordinating with the Bangalore Water Supply and Sewerage Board (BWSSB), but officials acknowledged the enormity of the task. BBMP’s Special Commissioner (Solid Waste Management) D. Randeep told The Hindu that the Water Plus certification carries more weightage. “We have already achieved ODF++. We now want to attempt this certification, though it is a steep target,” he said. He added that to get the Water Plus certification, the city must have 100% connection to the sewage network, apart from using the treated water to some extent. The certification, he said, focuses on water conservation and sanitation. With this aim, the civic body hopes to improve its Swachh ranking, which has been consistently low over the past few years . Despite the ODF++ certification, the BBMP’s ranking was a low 214 last year. This time, however, Bengaluru’s ranking is expected to improve, given that the new garbage tenders are in place and segregation levels have seen some improvement. Admitting that the Swachh Survekshan norms are stringent, Mr. Randeep said that the BBMP had been bringing in systemic changes and the situation on the ground has been improving year on year. He, however, admitted that this did not mean that there were no black spots. “There still is a lot of scope for improvement,” he said. Citizens’ feedback is another area where the BBMP has been losing points. “We have fared very poorly in terms of citizen engagement, despite various awareness initiatives. We are yet to initiate these programmes this year due to COVID-19,” he said and added that the civic body will launch more social media campaigns this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bbmp-aims-for-water-plus-ranking-under-swachh-survekshan-2021/article33663848.ece
26 January 2021||January 26 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Patriotic fervour||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/patriotic-fervour/article33663850.ece
26 January 2021||January 26 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||A tribute||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/a-tribute/article33663567.ece
26 January 2021||January 26 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Pride of democracy||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pride-of-democracy/article33663690.ece
26 January 2021||January 26 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Police stop farmers from going to rally||He alleged the police and officials from the Transport Depart1ment had gone to villages and threatened farmers that they will book cases against them if they took their tractors for the rally. “The farmers were threatened that their tractors would be seized and cases will be booked against them,” Mr. Nagendra said. Farmers were scheduled to gather at Maharaja’s College grounds on Monday before proceeding to Bengaluru. En route, they were supposed to stop overnight at Byrapatna on the outskirts of Bengaluru. Earlier, Minister for Co-operation S.T. Somashekar said the government is not against the demonstration by the farmers. “It will be difficult to run tractors on the roads of Bengaluru. If they are allowed, traffic movement has to be stopped. I am sure farmers will not like to inconvenience the public,” he said. The permission had been granted for tractors to hold a rally in Delhi because the road network there is different. “If thousands of tractors are allowed to descend on the roads of Bengaluru, everything else will have to stop,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/police-stop-farmers-from-going-to-rally/article33663681.ece
26 January 2021||January 26 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||BBMP push for implementation of e-office||The BBMP is embracing technology to clear files by implementing e-office. Though e-office is being used in the civic body’s head office, it is yet to be adopted by the zonal offices. To ensure 100% implementation of e-office technology for movement and clearance of files, a circular has now been issued making its use mandatory at all levels. According to officials in the Department of Administration, over the past year, e-office was being used in the head office. “Though most of the offices of the zonal joint commissioners have implemented it, it is yet to be used at other departments in the zones. Around 50% of the departments have implemented it,” an official said. Meanwhile, the BBMP has decided to resume the practice of biometric attendance that was stopped some time ago. A circular making it mandatory was issued recently. Sources said that following the outbreak of COVID-19, biometric attendance had been suspended. “Now, the number of cases has reduced drastically, so have the number of active cases. Henceforth, salaries may be disbursed to officials only based on their biometric attendance,” sources added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bbmp-push-for-implementation-of-e-office/article33663846.ece
26 January 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||570 manifesto promises fulfilled: CM||The State government could fulfil 570 of the 600 promises put forward in the manifesto of the LDF brought out during the last election, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said. Inaugurating a social meet in connection with the district-level tour at Thodupuzha on Monday, he said the State had tackled many crises during the LDF’s term so far in power, including the floods, landslips, and the COVID-19 pandemic that was still prevalent. However, some things mentioned in the manifesto could not be done as expected, he said. Rebuild Kerala Yet a lot was done, even those not mentioned in the manifesto, and there was still more to be done. Some of the projects undertaken included the Rebuild Kerala initiative that was launched with a view to let the State be not affected by flood or such natural calamities. In the development sector, there was better transparency in communicating about the development projects to the people. The government had announced four missions for the development of the State. The waste-free Kerala project created an awareness on the need to treat wastes at their sources. Some of the rivers in the State could be cleaned with public support.  Agri production The State, which completely depended other States for vegetables, could make progress by augmenting the production more than double now as compared to the situation in 2016. In the field of education, a mission for protection of public education had been announced. Now, nearly 65,000 students had joined the public education system. “Our public education system has risen to an international level and any student could achieve higher education at that level,” he said. The State had to be more keen on the health care sector. “It was evident from the way we could faced the COVID-19 situation,” he said. . Life Mission For the people who did not have a place to live, the Life Mission came as a ray of hope. Now, 2.6 lakh houses were completed and it meant that at least 10 lakh people got a house of their own. He said many more people were being included in the Life scheme. Electricity Minister M.M. Mani presided over the function.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/570-of-600-manifesto-promises-fulfilled-cm/article33663639.ece
26 January 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||KPCC member removed from CM’s meeting||Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) member C.P. Mathew, who reached the venue of the Chief Minister’s programme, was arrested and removed from there. The function was held at the auditorium of a private hotel at Thodupuzha. Mr Mathew reached there and tried to talk to the media. The function was meant for the invited guests and the police immediately reached there and removed him. The police said that he was removed because he was not invited and had tried to intrude the meeting. There were invited guests representing various sections of people and the meeting was meant for giving their opinion and suggestions on development and the public issues being faced in the district. However, Mr Mathew said that he was there to meet the Chief Minister and personally apprise him of the problems the district faced.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kpcc-member-removed-from-cms-meeting/article33663637.ece
26 January 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Wayanad can claim a winner||Dhananjay Diwakar Sagdeo, 64, the first Padma Shri award winner from Wayanad district, has been working at the Swami Vivekananda Medical Mission, an organisation working for tribespeople in the hill district, for the past 40 years. Dr. Sagdeo, a native of Nagpur in Maharashtra, joined the mission in the 1980s. Later he became the chief medical officer of the mission in the district. First diagnosis It was Dr. Sagdeo who first diagnosed sickle cell anaemia among the tribespeople of Wayanad. He brought it to the notice of the government and the All India Institute of Medical Science, New Delhi. AIIMS then launched a four-year project to cure the disease among the tribespeople. The non-profitable medical services provided by Dr. Sagdeo to various tribal sects in the past four decades brought him this national acclaim. Apart from medical services, he was always in the forefront of efforts to bring about comprehensive development of tribespeople. District Collector Adeela Abdulla visited him at his residence and congratulated him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/wayanad-can-claim-a-winner/article33663998.ece
26 January 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||All Meppady resorts to be closed||A meeting of the Meppady grama panchayat on Monday decided to close all private resorts functioning in the panchayat limits. The decision was taken in the wake of the death of a tourist in a wild elephant attack on Saturday night. “The property owners can resume functioning of their properties only after obtaining permission from the grama panchayat by producing all documents related to the property,” Omana Ramesh, president, Meppady grama panchayat, said. If any property functioned without the permission of the local administrative body, legal measures would be initiated against it with the help of the police department, she said. Meanwhile, the Forest Department has started collecting details of resorts and home-stays functioning on the fringes of the forest. “We have issued directives to owners of private resorts and homestays to remove all structures like tents put up on the fringes of the forest,” South Wayanad divisional forest officer P. Ranjith Kumar told The Hindu . The department had issued notice to the Rain Forest resort at Elambilery to remove the tents set up on the fringes of the forest two times earlier. But it had failed to obey the order, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/all-private-resorts-in-meppady-to-be-closed/article33663597.ece
26 January 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||Renovated stadium opened||Industry and Sports Minister E.P. Jayarajan has said the government was working to strengthen sports facilities in rural areas. The Minister was speaking after inaugurating the renovated Koothuparamba Municipal Stadium here on Monday/. He said the aim was to create a healthy nation through excellence in sports. He added that steps were being taken to create 50 supernumerary posts in the sports department and give jobs to sportspersons. The construction of the stadium was completed under the Sports Department at a cost of Rs. 5.34 crore received from Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board. It has an international standard lawn and a football field with sprinkler system.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/renovated-stadium-opened/article33663605.ece
26 January 2021||Kannur,KERALA||Medical team examines M.V. Jayarajan||A special medical team on Monday examined CPI(M) Kannur district secretary M.V. Jayarajan who is undergoing treatment for COVID-19 at the Kannur Medical College Hospital here. A team of doctors from Government Medical College Hospital, Thiruvananthapuram, examined Mr. Jayarajan who has been shifted to ventilator. The medical team expressed satisfaction at the treatment being provided. The doctors said Mr. Jayarajan was suffering from pneumonia along with COVID-19. Medical Superintendent of Kannur MCH K. Sudeep said Mr. Jayarajan was brought with high sugar level and was in the intensive care unit. He was conscious but his condition was somewhat critical.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/medical-team-examines-mv-jayarajan/article33663659.ece
26 January 2021||Kochi,KERALA||‘Genome sequencing could help identify reason for rise in cases’||While Kerala has seen a recent rise in COVID-19 cases even as other States appear to have dodged a second surge so far, experts say that genome sequencing could help figure out the reasons for the growing figures. Kerala has contributed to 43% of the new cases reported in India in the past one week, said Dr. Rijo John, health economist, who has been analysing the numbers. Testing stands at a seven-day average of around 55,000 per day, which is lower than the average figure of around 60,000 to 62,000 during the peak the State witnessed in October, he said. “We already saw a peak in October of around 8,000 to 9,000 new cases daily. It appears as if we are approaching a new peak now, but testing has stagnated with no justification,” he said. “The onset was delayed. Once transmission starts expanding, susceptible pools wherever they are, are at risk of getting the infection eventually,” said Dr. Giridhar R. Babu, Professor of Epidemiology at the Public Health Foundation of India. “You could have had a fewer number of cases if testing was disproportionately distributed. In some States, more than 50% of the tests were concentrated in the State capitals and the rest distributed across the State. Kerala has wide distribution of tests across the State, so if there is an infection, you might pick it up anywhere,” he said. “Most importantly, when the susceptible pool is readily available for infection, which variant of the virus has caused this sudden surge in cases is important to examine. Earlier, the outbreaks in the country were mostly associated with the initial variants spreading. Is it a possibility that the new peaks are because of the new variations?” asked Dr. Babu, adding that results of genomic sequencing associated with Kerala’s outbreaks would be crucial. Growing caseloads Ernakulam, Alappuzha and Pathanamthitta have seen rapidly growing caseloads in the past few weeks. The genome sequencing study that the State is undertaking might help identify reasons for a rise in cases in some pockets and determine if that can be attributed to variations in the strains of the virus, said an infectious diseases expert in the government sector who asked not to be identified. “The urban-rural divide does not really apply to Kerala since there is mobility across areas,” he said. One hundred samples are being collected from each district every month for three months for genome sequencing, he said. Reverse quarantine measures in the State might have failed to some extent since the death audits point to a large number of deaths among people with comorbidities, he added. ‘Strange situation’ With the current slow pace of vaccination, it could take several years to attain some sort of vaccine-induced herd immunity, which makes it crucial to not drop our guard, Dr. John said. “Kerala is the only State where the cases plateaued and began to rise again, which is a strange situation. Some States, where there is large-scale COVID-unfriendly behaviour but few cases, remain a mystery. It cannot be that every other State is under-reporting figures,” he said. The infectious diseases expert agreed that the dip in the other States when compared to the increase in Kerala, was perplexing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/genome-sequencing-could-help-identify-reason-for-rise-in-cases/article33663983.ece
26 January 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Palace reopening raises hope for deer park||When the Hill Palace throws open its gates to the public next month after almost a year-long break, the Centre for Heritage Studies (CHS) authorities, entrusted with the maintenance of the sprawling garden spread over 52 acres and the adjoining deer park sequestering over 250 sambars and spotted deer in over two acres, may heave a sigh of relief. The pandemic-induced closure of the tourist destination in last March was further extended by maintenance work, which is nearing completion, and it deprived CHS of the vital revenue stream. The extended closure meant that the annual revenue by way of entry tickets that, despite seasonal fluctuations, averaged anything between Rs. 1.25 crore and Rs. 1.50 crore was suddenly lost, leaving CHS, an autonomous institution under the Cultural Department, solely dependent on government grants to meet its expenses. As per the existing arrangement, CHS is entitled to 50% of ticket revenue plus government grants. So far this financial year, CHS has received a combined grant of Rs. 50 lakh under plan and non-plan funds. “We have to meet all expenses, including those for the maintenance of the garden and deer park, salary, and office management, from the grant,” said K.V. Sreenath, CHS registrar and officer in charge of Hill Palace. The drop in income had hit the running of the deer park, which entails a monthly expense of around Rs. 5.50 lakh towards feeding and treatment charges. The donation of Rs. 15 lakh for the upkeep of the park by Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited under its corporate social responsibility initiative came as a big relief. No income stream Even during normal times, the deer park did not have an income stream and was dependent on the entry ticket revenue from the Hill Palace. “But the park was never affected in the past owing to paucity of funds,” said Mr. Sreenath. The number of deer has registered a steep increase over the years, and a few animals had jumped the fencing in the past, following which it was mended. The death of adult animals and calves in 2018 also had left the CHS authorities worried. The deer park has no in-house veterinarians and has to fall back on outside help in times of need.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/palace-reopening-raises-hope-for-deer-park/article33663973.ece
26 January 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Police bid to tackle drug menace||Taking serious note of the alleged drug-induced assault involving six juveniles and the subsequent death of one of the accused, the Kochi City police have chalked out a multi-pronged strategy to deal with the crisis surrounding Glass Factory Colony in Kalamasserry. District Police Chief (Kochi City) C.H. Nagaraju said the emphasis would be on an investigation-based intervention with awareness campaigns for youngsters and their parents. Supply chain “We are also looking to track down the supply chain, the money sources and the kingpins behind the drug supply. As part of a general prevention strategy, areas where vulnerable youngsters are known to idle away will increasingly come under the scanner. In fact, we have identified such spots across the city,” he said. The Excise Department has also stepped in, with its sleuths visiting the deceased boy’s house and the site where the assault took place. “To begin with, we are planning to give counselling to the juveniles involved and their parents under our Vimukthi de-addiction mission as they seem to be facing social ostracism of sorts. We also plan to increase night patrolling along the area and to deploy our personnel in plainclothes,” said Anwar Sadat P., Circle Inspector, Ernakulam Excise circle. Drug peddling The Ernakulam circle has registered four cases under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act this month. Mr. Sadat said youngsters who were into drugs were also being pushed into drug peddling. The drug carriers among migrant workers also posed a problem, he said. Psychiatrist S.D. Singh said drug-induced behavioural changes brought about mood disorders, which in turn triggered depression, stoking suicidal tendencies. “Incidents like these evoke highly emotional response from the mob and the media. A life could have been saved had the incident been handled in a positive and supportive way. It is high time that mental health check was made a vital part of the mandatory medical examination of accused following the registration of a police case,” said Dr. Singh, who is also a specialist in de-addiction. Marginalised people Ajithkumar J. Varma, criminologist and former chief investigator with the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, London, said the assault and the resultant incidents were manifestations of the dejection of a marginalised community. “These youngsters are abreast of the fast progressing society around them, thanks to social media and mobile applications, but are antagonised about the absence of a level playing field, denying them the fruits of that progress,” he said.  It is high time that mental health check was made a vital part of the mandatory medical examination of accused following the registration of a police case S.D. Singh Psychiatrist||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/police-chalk-out-multi-pronged-strategy-to-tackle-drug-menace/article33663978.ece
26 January 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Two tragedies rattle Kalamassery neighbourhood||In less than a week, the Glass Factory Colony, a neighbourhood of low income groups at Kalamasserry, has witnessed two tragedies. Last Thursday, a 17-year-old boy from the colony was brutally assaulted by his friends, the video of which had gone viral. Three days later, on Monday, one of the six juvenile accused in the case, a 17-year-old, allegedly took his life at his house. “The whereabouts of the remaining five accused boys are not known as they have been sent away from the colony for fear of backlash from local residents. “The boy had also been sent to a relative’s place in Cherthala but was not allowed to stay there reportedly after they were warned against doing so,” said Pareeth Pillai N., a social activist. Drug abuse At the centre of the assault that triggered a chain reaction seems to be drug abuse as the youngsters were allegedly under the influence of drugs at the time. “We are planning to organise an anti-drug awareness campaign in the colony and an all-party meet to discuss ways to deal with the drug menace. We have also asked the owner of the incomplete villa where the assault took place to either finish the project or to restrict access, besides cleaning up the bushy area,” said local councillor Chithra Surendran. Abandoned plots Kalamasserry municipal chairperson Seema Kannan said she had sought a report both from the municipal secretary and the local police on the incident. She said the problem of abandoned and vacant plots would be looked into. ‘A problem area’ Azeez Kummancherry, president of Kalamasserry zone of Ernakulam District Residents’ Associations Apex Council (EDRAAC) comprising 79 associations, said the first ward of Kalamasserry had been a problem area for years, with acres of abandoned plots of defunct companies and their proximity to the Muttar river. There have even been incidents in which anti-drug awareness campaigns were met with threats. “These abandoned plots have become dens of anti-social elements, including drug pushers, and going anywhere near them even during daytime is scary. Though the issue has been raised time and again during Janamaithri police meetings, neither the police nor the politicians seem to have any control over it. The access by river means that they can get away easily even if law enforcement agencies make surprise raids,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-tragedies-rattle-kalamassery-neighbourhood/article33663976.ece
26 January 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Trial in actor rape case may be stalled||The trial in the actor rape case, which resumed the other day after a gap of over two months, is likely to be stalled once again. This time too, it is the COVID-19 pandemic that threatens to derail the plans of the Special Court to complete the proceedings. On Monday, the defence lawyers moved an adjournment petition before the court stating that one of the lawyers representing actor Dileep, the 8th accused in the case, has tested positive and two other defence lawyers who closely interacted with him have gone into quarantine. The court has posted the petition for consideration on Wednesday. As the lawyer has tested positive, the proceedings may have to be put on hold at least till the second week of February. Dileep’s bail On Friday, the court is supposed to pronounce its order in the prosecution plea for the cancellation of the bail of Dileep for violation of bail conditions. The order may also be postponed, considering the new developments. The examination of three witnesses from Palakkad, Kozhikode and Cherthala, scheduled to be conducted on Wednesday, is also likely to be postponed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/trial-in-actor-rape-case-may-be-stalled/article33663647.ece
26 January 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Pandemic fails to dampen the spirit of book lovers||The pandemic, it seems, largely failed to break the tryst between readers and books going by the applications for membership being received by the Ernakulam Public Library. One of the oldest libraries in the State kept its lending section open all along except during the 40 days of the lockdown immediately after which readers, both new and old, started returning. “On an average, we have been receiving 70 new membership applications since our lending section was reopened after the lockdown. It has further surged in the past couple of months. Though yet to return to the pre-COVID levels, the lending of books has been stable and is increasing all the time,” said the librarian, Priya K. Peter. However, the library has no immediate plans to run any membership campaign, which it has been doing at regular intervals, owing to the prevailing restrictions. Extension centres After being closed for months, the library threw open the doors of its reading and reference sections and an adjoining hall where the general public can bring their own books to read, on the New Year day in strict compliance with COVID protocol. Plans are also afoot to open the library’s extension centres at the High Court, Infopark Kochi and the Greater Cochin Development Authority office shortly. “Food and water from outside are strictly banned inside the library premises while masks and gloves are mandatory. Only five persons are allowed inside the lending section at a time and 15 in the reading room,” said Ms. Peter. The library never ceased buying new books through the pandemic times and has already bought all recently released English titles. The library now boasts over 2 lakh books and over 10,700 members.  The library now offers five different categories of membership – A, B, and C, life membership and institutional membership. All members, except those under the B and C categories, were eligible to take home four books at a time and the other two could take two and one book respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pandemic-fails-to-dampen-the-spirit-of-book-lovers/article33663980.ece
26 January 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||He will have to wait for release||M. Sivasankar, former Principal Secretary to the Chief Minister, may have to remain in jail for some more time though he got bail in the cases booked by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) and Customs on Monday. Though the Kerala High Court and the Economic Offences Court, Ernakulam, gave him bail in the money-laundering case and the diplomatic channel gold smuggling case, he is yet to get bail in the dollar smuggling case booked by the Customs. Fourth accused The Customs recorded the arrest of Mr. Sivasankar in the dollar smuggling case on January 21 and arraigned him as the fourth accused. He has been housed at the Ernakulam district jail. Mr. Sivasankar will move his bail application in the dollar smuggling case on January 27, said S. Rajeev, his counsel. He was incarcerated for nearly 70 days in the ED case before the High Court granted him jail. In the gold smuggling case, the court noted in its order on Monday that he was entitled to be released on bail as the “Customs failed to file complaint after the conclusion of the investigation within 60 days.” While granting him bail, Economic Offences Court Judge C. Deepu asked Mr. Sivasankar to execute a bail bond of Rs. 2 lakh with two solvent sureties for the same amount. Bail terms The sureties should produce original title deeds of their properties for verification. Mr. Sivasankar should appear before the investigating officer on all Mondays between 10 a.m. and 11 a.m. for three months or until the filing of the complaint whichever is earlier from the date of his actual release from jail, the judge ordered. The official was also asked to surrender his passport within seven days of his release. The court asked him not to influence or intimidate the witnesses in the case and not to tamper with evidence in any manner.  He is yet to get bail in the dollar smuggling case booked by the Customs||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/he-will-have-to-wait-for-release/article33663607.ece
26 January 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Sajan Mani wins ‘Berlin Art Prize’||Intersectional artist Sajan Mani has won the prestigious Berlin Art Prize for visual arts, becoming the first Indian artist to win the honour. Instituted by the Akademie der Künste in Berlin as an annual prize since 1971, it is bestowed on artistes and cultural practitioners in six categories. The award carries a cash component of €5,000 and a citation. Mr. Mani, a native of Kannur, has been studying and practising art in Berlin for the past four years. He has used his body as a socio-political metaphor, a space where history and identity meet. Hailing from a family of rubber tappers in Kannur, Mr. Mani seeks to use the ‘black Dalit body’ to portray the vastly varied, but obscured from the mainstream, experiences of the marginalised sections. Multi-layered narrative His exhibition last year at the Nome Gallery in Berlin titled ‘Alphabet of Touch >< Overstretched Bodies and Muted Howls for Songs’ was noted for the multi-layered narration of his personal history interspersed with the intangible history of the Dalits spoken about by poet Poikayil Appachan. “My body has been my medium and the effort is to explore it in a historical, temporal context,” Mr. Mani told The Hindu over phone from Berlin. “If in the 1960s and 1970s, performance art was primarily about testing the endurance of the body, today’s performative installations are all layered, with an artistic work built around it.” He said he was humbled by the honour and that he had gone to Berlin, after completing BFA, to do MA in spatial strategies at Weißensee Kunsthochschule. After the completion of the course, he decided to stay back on a freelance artist visa. ‘Political Yoga’ One of his prominent works in Berlin was on ‘Political Yoga’ in which the artist chose to “explore the manifestations of social, cultural and geopolitical power dispositions reproduced in one’s own meditation and body practices”. The project also included a book and a workshop.  My body has been my medium and the effort is to explore it in a historical, temporal context Sajan Mani||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sajan-mani-wins-berlin-art-prize-for-visual-arts/article33663971.ece
26 January 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Proposal for new bridge yet to get administrative nod||The Public Works Department (PWD) has resubmitted the proposal for a new bridge replacing the more-than-a-century-old iron bridge at Thripunithura after the proposal failed to receive administrative sanction from the government when it was originally submitted in October 2019. The new bridge, which is estimated to cost Rs. 29 crore, was included in the list of 26 new bridges planned across the State after Thripunithura MLA M. Swaraj raised the issue in the Assembly as a submission a few months back. “The preliminary proceedings, including soil test, design, and detailed project report, have already been completed. There was some delay owing to the pandemic, but the work may get under way soon now,” said Mr. Swaraj. Traffic along the 120-year-old iron bridge has been restricted to two-wheelers for over a year now after the PWD found it weak for heavier traffic, much to the discontent of residents on both sides of the bridge. “If the new bridge is going to be further delayed, then at least three-wheelers should be allowed through the existing bridge to ease transportation woes,” said T. Gopakumar, president of the Kottaykkakam Residents’ Association. Vasudevan Unni, president of the Valappikkadavu Residents’ Association, said restricted entry to the iron bridge had made access to Thripunithura, including emergency visits to the nearest hospital in the municipality, cumbersome. “Residents now have to take the circuitous route through Pettah or the Bypass to reach Thripunithura,” he said. ‘Historical value’ Meanwhile, there is also a campaign for preserving the iron bridge even at the cost of transportation hardships. “The bridge is of immense historical and heritage value and hence should be preserved as a pedestrians’ bridge. It got weakened because it was opened to heavy vehicles, which should never have been allowed through it. The riverside along the bridge is beautiful and green, and retaining that ecology should get preference over development,” said P K. Satheesh, secretary of Cochin Royal Family Foundation. Though the foundation had submitted a memorandum for the preservation of the bridge, it hardly evoked an enthusiastic response from the MLA, he said. PWD sources, however, said that retaining the iron bridge was untenable as it would fail the minimum five-metre vertical clearance by the Irrigation Department, thus hindering boat service proposed through the area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/proposal-for-new-bridge-yet-to-get-administrative-nod/article33663985.ece
26 January 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Reducing poverty through ‘Gramakam’||The Kudumbashree Mission, joining hands with National Rural Livelihood Mission, has begun work on implementing Gramakam, a village-level poverty reduction programme, on mission mode over the next four years. The programme involves 2.45 lakh neighbourhood groups and 15,985 Area Development Societies (ADSs) under the Kudumbashree Mission in 914 panchayats in the State, said an official on Monday. The mission begins with the identification and consolidation of grass-roots level needs of a village. They include both entitlements like pension, employment guarantee card, insurance cover, etc. and livelihood needs of people for which enterprises, ranging from dairy farming to agricultural activities, can be identified. The requirements are identified at the ward level and consolidated with Area Development Societies and Community Development Societies (CDSs) acting as the bridge between various State government departments and the village for planning and implementation of plans at the panchayat level. Kudumbashree entities will consolidate the requirements of the village and submit them to the panchayat so that the requirements can be addressed during panchayat-level planning. Besides livelihood issues and problems of entitlements, there are other areas like environmental protection, pollution, which need to be addressed and will figure prominently in the planning process along with building common assets like schools, reading rooms and libraries, roads, irrigation, drinking water, street lights, public spaces and playgrounds. The planning process is expected to be complete by the end of this month, said the official who also pointed out that more than 89,000 volunteers had been trained at CDS and ADS levels across Kerala for the mission-mode programme. They will be involved directly in the plan preparation at the grass-roots self-help group level. The consolidated programme of action is to be readied by January 26 in all the panchayats. The Kudumbashree mission has also developed a software to record the community-level planning. Based on the software data, a follow-up on the plan implementation will be done by the Kudumbashree Mission.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/reducing-poverty-through-gramakam/article33663991.ece
26 January 2021||Kochi,KERALA||‘Roll out seaplanes to woo high-end tourists’||The lull in tourist arrivals to Kerala due to the pandemic situation has intensified the demand that the government promote seaplane and helicopter services to woo high-end tourists to destinations across Kerala. This comes in the wake of industrialists and other well-off tourists preferring the aerial mode of commute than spend time on the road route. There are others who don’t mind availing short trips to view scenic locales while seated in a helicopter that provides a bird’s-eye view. Hectic schedule, choked and often ill-maintained roads were hitherto cited as the reasons, while the pandemic situation has accentuated the demand for fast and hassle-free travel to a locale and back. A seaplane service mooted a decade ago failed to take off for a host of reasons, including what was then portrayed as opposition from a section of fisherfolk. Chipsan Aviation began operating helicopter services from Kochi to locales like Munnar, Kumily and Kumarakom a few years ago. “We are making efforts to ready a tour circuit linking these places. It will help if Kerala Tourism helps in marketing the service since there is demand for such services, especially from affluent tourists who want to get away from stressful life in noisy cities to spend a few days in the high ranges and other scenic locales,” said Sunil Narayanan, co-owner of the firm. Jose Dominic of CGH Earth and the convener of CII Kerala Tourism Panel said that there is tremendous scope for operating seaplanes or mini aircraft which can land in small air strips, in Kerala. “The services could take off from Kochi as the hub and operate services to locales like Lakshadweep, Maldives, Wayanad and to States in peninsular India like Karnakata, Tamil Nadu, and also to Puducherry,” he said. Juby Mathew Kattampilly, a tour operator, spoke of how a regular seaplane service would have considerably benefited the houseboat sector and helped adventure tourism in Kerala. “It would thus have changed the face of tourism in Kuttanad. The concerns of fishers and others should be alleviated through a scientific study,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/roll-out-seaplanes-to-woo-high-end-tourists/article33663986.ece
26 January 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Maoist case: youth remanded||Vijith Vijayan, the fourth accused in the Pantheerankavu Maoist case, was remanded in custody of the National Investigation Agency for five days. He was arrested by the National Investigation Agency on January 23. Seeking the custody of the accused, the agency submitted that it had obtained digital evidence against the youth. It also submitted that it was Vijayan who recruited Alan Shuhaib to the CPI(Maoist), a banned organisation. The National Investigation Agency had invoked provisions of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act against the accused in the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/maoist-case-youth-remanded/article33663608.ece
26 January 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||PM award for city school student||Veer Kashyap, a Class 5 student at Navy Children School, Kochi, was among the 32 children awarded the Pradhan Mantri Rashtriya Bal Puraskar 2021 under the ‘Innovation’ category. Ten-year-old Veer created ‘CORONA-YUGA’ board game in April last year during the first phase of the lockdown while he was stuck at his grandparent’s house in Bengaluru and had only a few board games at home. Shaped like the coronavirus, the game taps into various challenging situations experienced by people during the lockdown. The game, according to a release, is about telling people safety guidelines to survive the pandemic and inculcating a behavioural change. The game promotes yoga and physical distancing and is appreciative of health workers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pm-award-for-city-school-student/article33663968.ece
26 January 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||HC adjourns hearing on approver’s plea||The High Court adjourned to January 27 the hearing on a plea by Vipinlal, an accused-turned-approver in the actor rape case, seeking to quash an order by the Ernakulam Additional Special Sessions Court to arrest him and keep him in custody till the trial is over. In his petition, he alleged that attempts were made to compel him to support the defence. As a result, he had lodged a complaint with the Bekal police and secured protection. After failing to win him over, actor Dileep, the 8th accused in the case, had filed a petition before the Sessions Court seeking to arrest him and remand him till the conclusion of the trial. The order of the Sessions Court had come on the actor’s petition. By sending him to jail where the accused persons had their contacts, he would be placed in a vulnerable position. Sending him to jail would pose a threat to his life. This was especially so when the transmission rate of COVID-19 was on the rise in the State. The accused actor was trying to scare the petitioner into keeping away from being examined and delay the trial proceedings. The Sessions Court had overlooked the crucial fact that the accused had no locus standi to demand the issue of an arrest warrant. In fact, the objective of keeping an approver in prison was to ensure his safety. However, the order did not state in what manner the object was achieved by sending the petitioner to prison, he alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hc-adjourns-hearing-on-approvers-plea/article33663645.ece
26 January 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||HC allows convicts’ parents to visit them||A Division Bench of the Kerala High Court on Monday allowed the parents of three convicts in the Central Prison who were allegedly manhandled along with a convict in the Kevin murder case by the jail officials to visit them at the Thiruvanathapuram Medical college hospital on January 26 and interact with their sons for half an hour. The court had expressed its unhappiness over the manner in which the prison administration was being run and directed the Additional Directorial of Prisons and Correctional Service to file a report in this regard. The court had also expressed its dissatisfaction over the inquiry report submitted by the DIG of Prison on the alleged manhandling of Tittu Jerome, a convict in the Kevin murder case. The directive was passed when a petition filed by the parents of Tittu Gerome alleging assault on their son inside the jail came up for hearing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hc-allows-convicts-parents-to-visit-them/article33663640.ece
26 January 2021||Kochi,KERALA||KSEB to generate 1,000 MW solar power by 2022||The Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) expects to achieve solar power generation to the tune of 1,000 MW by 2022. The solar energy programme announced by the board has received enthusiastic response. “A total of 16,000 KSEB consumers have already registered under various schemes and the Board will be able to provide support to establish 75,000 solar plants with a capacity of three kWp as of now,” said A. Nazruddeen, nodal officer for KSEB’s solar energy programme. A consumer, availing of subsidy, will be able to establish a solar power plant generating three kWp by investing around Rs. 80,000. Mr. Nazrudeen said that survey and site inspections on the first set of registrations are near-complete and that work to establish plants could begin in February. The launch of the domestic, rooftop solar plant programme is a landmark for the State, which has consistently made a push towards renewable energy options. KSEB has designed the subsidy scheme in such a way that an ordinary domestic consumer would be able to join the renewable energy programme by making a small investment. Business models The three main business models in the first category include the plant established by a consumer whose average power consumption is up to 120 units. The consumer will have to invest 12% of the expenditure and will be able to avail of 25% of the power generated at the plant. Another model in the first category is for those whose consumption is up to 150 units. The consumer will have to put in 20% of the expenditure and then be able to avail of 40% of the power generated at the plant. In yet another model, those consuming up to 200 units can put in 25% of the expenditure and be able to get 50% of the power generated. In real terms, a consumer, with up to 120 units of power consumption, investing 20% of the expenditure will mean that there will virtually be no bi-monthly electricity bills as the plant can generate an average 360 units per month. The consumer will be able to get 90 units free every month. The Board has received Central subsidy support, over the current and previous financial years, to establish domestic, rooftop solar plants to generate 250 MW of power. The State is already producing around 250 MW of solar power using floating and ground-mounted panels. These solar parks include the 10-MW generation facility at the Banasura Sagar dam in Wayanad district. Another 50 MW is being produced at the solar park in Kasaragod district. The facility has been established as a joint venture between the KSEB and Union government-promoted Solar Energy Corporation of India (SECI). Entities like the Cochin International Airport have contributed to the power bank and generates 40 MW of solar power.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kseb-plans-to-generate-1000-mw-of-solar-power-by-next-year/article33663992.ece
26 January 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Scientists slam cow dung claim||The Breakthrough Science Society has said a “politically motivated RKA (Rashtriya Kamdhenu Aayog) was pushing” pseudo science by claiming that cow dung cake blocked harmful radiation and that keeping cow dung cake on mobile phones was effective against radiation. The statement came in response to a “fantastic claim” in October 2020 by the national commission for cows that cow dung cakes blocked harmful radiation and that it was scientifically proven. Chairperson of the Commission for Cows Vallabhbhai Kathiria was questioned by more than 600 scientists. The scientists had questioned the claim by the head of the department of physics at the Saurashtra University that cow dung chip was analysed. The analysis and the test report “violates all norms of scientific procedure”, the Society said in a statement on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/scientists-slam-cow-dung-claim/article33663974.ece
26 January 2021||Kochi,KERALA||23 complaints settled at women’s panel adalat||Kerala Women’s Commission adalat held here on Monday settled 23 out of 84 complaints. Eight cases were handed over to other departments for further investigation. Online portals The commission had received a complaint concerning insults against women on online portals. Remarks that invaded the personal freedom and privacy of women must be avoided, and a stringent law would be necessary to keep such comments at bay, since existing laws had no teeth, said M.C. Josephine, chairperson of the commission. The remaining 54 cases will be addressed at the next adalat. The adalat was held adhering to COVID-19-related protocol, said a release here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/23-complaints-settled-at-womens-panel-adalat/article33663965.ece
26 January 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Writer’s remarks painful, says Josephine||Kerala Women’s Commission Chairperson M.C. Josephine has expressed pain at what she thought were uncharitable remarks against her from writer T. Padmanabhan. She said here that the writer had commented without understanding the facts of the incident. Mr. Padmanabhan had criticised Ms. Josephine for behaving badly with an aged relative of his. ‘Moral obligation’ Ms. Josephine said she respected the writer but he should have shown the moral obligation to call her to understand what happened.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/writers-remarks-painful-says-josephine/article33663966.ece
26 January 2021||Kochi,KERALA||487 new cases in district||The district recorded 487 new COVID-19 cases on Monday, while testing dropped to 3,507 samples. Five health workers have newly tested positive. Maradu recorded 44 new cases, while Thuravoor, Thrikkakara and Thripunithura registered 17 each. With 616 recoveries on Monday, the active caseload stands at 10,767. A majority of people (8,709) are recovering at home, while 75 patients are admitted at the PVS Hospital, 45 at the Government Medical College Hospital and 820 at private hospitals. Vaccination At 19 centres in the district, 1,796 health workers took the Covishield shot on Monday. While 156 health workers were inoculated at the MOSC Medical College Hospital, 116 took the injection at Aster Medcity, 111 at the Ernakulam General Hospital, 102 at Amrita Hospital, and 100 at the Mar Baselios Medical Mission Hospital. Vaccination also began at PVS Hospital, where 84 health workers took the vaccine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/487-new-cases-in-district/article33663975.ece
26 January 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Online job fraud attempt foiled||The timely intervention by the Ernakulam Rural police helped a job aspirant recover money that he had lost after falling prey to an online job fraud attempt. He had registered his name with an online firm while searching for a job. Following this, he received a call with a direction to log into a portal for which he was to be provided a log in id and password. On logging in, he was directed to a payment gateway for the payment of a registration fee of Rs. 25. However, despite repeated attempts the payment failed following which he contacted the firm, which asked him to use another card. In between, he received an SMS alert about an amount being debited from his account. When he again contacted the company, he was asked to forward the message and he did so but after editing out the balance amount in his account. However, the company insisted on getting the message unedited and this raised his suspicion following which he promptly alerted the police. K. Karthik, District Police Chief (Ernakulam Rural), said online job frauds were increasingly being reported and warned people not to share One Time Passwords at any cost as that would lead to loss of money from accounts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/online-job-fraud-attempt-foiled/article33663977.ece
26 January 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Student power to rejuvenate rivers||A few stretches of the Periyar, Muvattupuzha river, Kadamprayar and Chithrapuzha, along with 18 others across the State, will see local bodies and students of 33 engineering colleges joining hands to rejuvenate them. Hundreds of students from these colleges will shortly come up with detailed actionable project reports, which would look into the pollution, conservation and management issues of these rivers. The initiative comes from the Water Resources Department following a directive from the National Green Tribunal to clean up the 21 critically polluted rivers of the State. Students have been trained to look for various causative factors of pollution and provided with a template for easy assessment. Student teams are expected to come up with draft DPRs by February, said T.K. Jose, Additional Chief Secretary, who is overseeing the project.  The template for assessments, which could be used for all the rivers, was developed by Suja R. Nair, Associate Professor, Government Engineering College, Thiruvananthapuram. The project is coordinated by Kerala Irrigation Infrastructure Development Corporation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/student-power-to-rejuvenate-rivers/article33663987.ece
26 January 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||311 cases in Kottayam||As many as 311 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kottayam on Monday. Of the fresh cases, 309 persons including a health worker contracted the virus through local contact. The fresh cases also included 20 children and 65 persons aged above 60. With 73 cases, Kottayam municipality led the tally, followed by Meenadam and Changanassery with 10 cases each. With 439 recoveries during the day, the district currently has 6,621 active cases. Meanwhile, the total number of persons who received the COVID-19 vaccine in the district stood at 1,484. Pathanamthitta As many as 117 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Pathanamthitta on Monday. Of the fresh cases, 114 persons contracted the virus through local contact and among these, the contact source of nine persons were yet to be ascertained. Among the local bodies, Thottappuzhassery, Erathu and Adoor reported six cases apiece. With 805 recoveries during the day, the district currently has 5,466 active cases.  (With inputs from Pathanamthitta bureau)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/311-cases-in-kottayam/article33663633.ece
26 January 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Three from Palakkad held||The anti-drug squad of the Kottayam District Police Chief and the Chingavanam police on Monday arrested three persons from Nattakom and seized eight kilos of Ganja (cannabis) from their possession. The arrested have been identified as Anas Babu, 43, Radhakrishnan, 32 and Rahul, 21, all natives of Palakkad. Acting on a tip-off, the police launched a combing operation on the Thiruvathukal-Nattakam bypass road and waylaid the car in which they were travelling. In a follow up inspection, the ganja bundles were recovered from the vehicle. The accused were produced in court and remanded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/major-ganja-haul-in-district/article33663634.ece
26 January 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Korappuzha bridge to be opened in February||Work on the new bridge across the Korappuzha connecting Kozhikode and Kannur districts is in final stages and it is expected to be thrown open for traffic in February, Transport Minister A.K. Saseendran has said. The Minister held a meeting here on Monday to review the work and later visited the site. Mr. Saseendran directed the officials to solve the dispute over removing silt from the river. It was also decided to convene another meeting on February 28 to discuss a detailed plan to finish the work on the bridge. The original bridge was constructed in 1940 following the efforts of Gandhian freedom fighter K. Kelappan, who was then head of the Malabar District Board. The government decided to demolish the old structure after it become weak, and replace it with a new bridge. The Kerala Road Fund Board and the national highway division are into the construction and the funds are allocated by the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board. The project cost is Rs. 26 crore. The new bridge is 12-metre wide and there are 1.5-metre-wide footpaths on either side. Each of the seven spans of the bridge is 32-metre long and 12-metre wide. There are 150-metre-long approach roads on both sides of the bridge. There are service roads as well, a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/korappuzha-bridge-to-be-opened-in-february/article33663602.ece
26 January 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||LJD humiliating us, allege JD(S) leaders||A section of Janata Dal (Secular) leaders has accused the Loktantrik Janata Dal (LJD) of humiliating their party in public. They said it did not bode well for the Left Democratic Front (LDF), in which both the parties were allies. K. Lohia, JD(S) Kozhikode district president, said here on Monday that the LJD should stop finding fault with his party. If the LJD was willing to merge with the JD(S), it should do it instead of blaming the latter in public. The Vadakara Assembly constituency had been with the JD(S) for long. “Manayath Chandran’s statement declaring his candidature from Vadakara, claiming that a section of JD(S) leaders were going to join the LJD, lacked propriety,” Mr. Lohia said. Poll conventions The JD(S) would convene election conventions in all the 13 Assembly constituencies in Kozhikode district soon. The event in Vadakara would be held on February 14. Party State president Mathew T. Thomas, MLA; Minister K. Krishnan Kutty; and C.K. Nanu would attend it, he said. Mr. Lohia said that it was the style of the UDF members to declare their candidature on their own and start campaigning. “May be, the LJD is carrying the hangover from their stint with the UDF,” he said. Mr. Lohia claimed the JD(S) could trump home by fielding C.K. Nanu from Vadakara, when it was thought that the LDF would find it difficult to win from there in the wake of the murder of Revolutionary Marxist Party founder T.P. Chandrasekharan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ljd-humiliating-us-allege-jds-leaders/article33663603.ece
26 January 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Six from State make it to Padma roll of honour||An almost forgotten athletics coach of unforgettable achievements, a most popular playback singer and a prolific lyricist are among the this year’s Padma Award winners from Kerala. O.M. Nambiar, K.S. Chithra, and Kaithapram Damodaran Namboothiri have acknowledged with some of India's highest civilian honours. Three others from the State, puppeteer K.K. Ramachandra Pulavar; doctor of medicine Dhananjay Diwakar Sagdeo; and writer Balan Putheri have also made the list. While Chithra continues to record fresh melodies and Kaithapram still comes up with lyrics for new films, Nambiar moved away from the limelight long ago. But few people have deserved this honour as much as the man who gave India its finest track-and-field athlete of all time – P.T. Usha. Nambiar played a major role in making Usha a champion athlete she went on to become. Little wonder the Payyoli Express is delighted her coach has finally been recognised. “He should have been given a Padma Shri decades before, but I am glad that he has got it at least during his lifetime,” Usha said. Four decades Chithra had established herself as India's leading female playback singer in Malayalam cinema while Usha was still training under Nambiar. Some four decades after she first captivated music lovers, she remains one of the finest singers in the country. A winner of six National Awards and dozens of State Awards (Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Andhra and Karnataka among others), Chitra has dominated the southern film music like few female playback singers ever did. Many of Chithra's Malayalam songs have been penned by Kaithapram, who had made a sudden impact with this debut film Ennennum Kannettante in 1986. He has to his credit nearly1,500 film songs. Having worked with gifted composers like Johnson, Raveendran, Ouseppachan and Vidyasagar, he has had several hits, especially in the 1980s, 90s and 2000s, when melody mattered in Malayalam cinema, unlike today. He has also composed many hit tunes, for films like Desadanam and Kaliyattam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/six-from-state-make-it-to-padma-roll-of-honour/article33663644.ece
26 January 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Botanical garden to be reopened today||The Malabar Botanical Garden, which had remained closed following the COVID-19 outbreak, will be reopened to visitors as part of the Republic Day celebrations on Tuesday. According to officials, a major feature of the garden is the smartphone-enabled dissemination of information on every plant. Without the help of interpreters, visitors can now independently collect details of all species. It is also claimed to be the first-of-its-kind service anywhere in north Kerala. Nepenthes, a gene of carnivorous plants, which is also known as tropical pitcher plant, is one of the unique species conserved in the garden. It is also an endangered plant species. Officials said pitcher plants are unique for their capacity to attract, kill, and digest insects. The plant with jug-like pitchers which work as pitfall traps for prey is also known as ‘monkey caps’, as animals often drink rainwater collected in it. Entry to the garden will be in compliance with the COVID-19 protocol. It will be open from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. The botanical garden, which was opened by the Malabar Botanical Garden Society in 1990, continues to be a rare repository of aquatic plant resources. It is also famous for research and development activities and dissemination of information through innovative training programmes. There are 20 major attractions at the garden, which will be of immense advantage to students and researchers, officials said. Aquatic bio-park, butterfly garden, fern and moss house, ginger house, medicinal plant garden, hortus valley, and inflorescence house are the major attractions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/malabar-botanical-garden-to-be-reopened-today/article33663593.ece
26 January 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Government plans projects to boost apiculture: Agriculture Minister||Agriculture Minister V.S. Sunilkumar has said the government would soon launch Kerala Honey and Honey Mission to explore the production and marketing scope of quality honey, thereby supporting thousands of farmers. Opening Kerala Agricultural University’s new Agriculture Information and Sales Centre at the Vengeri wholesale urban market through videoconferencing here on Monday, the Minister said over 2,800 farmers specialised in apiculture had already registered with various Krishi Bhavans to be part of the projects. “Honey Mission will be a consortium of farmers specialised in the sector. Under it, honey will be produced in compliance with international quality standards,” said Mr. Sunilkumar. According to him, the Agriculture Department came up with the project considering its importance and the emerging marketing opportunities. The Minister also explained the government’s plan to set up 100 mango gardens across the State by planting native species as a tribute to late poet Sugathakumari next month. “The actual target is to have 500 such gardens with the cooperation of grama panchayats,” he said. A. Pradeepkumar, MLA, chaired the event. District panchayat president Kanathil Jameela opened the sales.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/govt-to-launch-projects-to-boost-apiculture/article33663594.ece
26 January 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||566 get jobs under ‘Athijeevanam’ project||The Community Development Societies (CDSs) of the Kudumbashree under the Kozhikode Municipal Corporation have been able to offer employment to 566 persons under the ‘Athijeevanam’ project, which was launched during the pandemic. Of them, the North CDS provided employment to the maximum number of people in the district. The project was rolled out to support those who were badly hit by the COVID-induced financial crisis. The plan was to start more self-employment programmes. Under the project, the North, South and Central CDSs have been able to find livelihood for 566 persons during the period from August to December 2020. A majority of beneficiaries come under the North CDS (529 persons). Of them, 417 benefited from the Home Shop scheme, while 15 benefited from tailoring and other garment units. Animal husbandry schemes helped 12, while 22 set up their own canteens. Seventeen persons secured jobs in public and private enterprises during the period, while four turned to agriculture. On the other hand, the South CDS provided employment to 29 people, while the Central CDS helped eight persons. The Corporation Council on Monday honoured T.K. Geetha, chairperson of North CDS, for effectively implementing the project. Deputy Mayor C.P. Musafir Ahamed, standing committee chairpersons S. Jayasree, C. Rekha, and P.C. Rajan and Kudumbashree assistant district mission coordinator Gireesh Kumar T. were present. Councillors Jayasheela N., Shaharban M.P., K. Ramlath, and P. Praseena, who had been Kudumbashree members earlier, were also honoured.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/566-get-jobs-under-athijeevanam-project/article33663590.ece
26 January 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Panel to check bunds at Kakkadampoyil resort||Kozhikode District Collector Seeram Sambasiva Rao has designated an expert panel to investigate the four bunds constructed at PVR Naturo Resort, owned by P.V.Anwar, MLA, at Kakkadampoyil. The bunds are obstructing the natural flow of water in a tributary of the Iruvazhinji river. The panel comprising executive engineer of the Micro Irrigation Department, a scientist at the Centre for Water Resource Development and Management, and the District Soil Protection Officer will visit the site and submit a report in two weeks. The panel was appointed at a hearing on complaints about the bunds as well as the High Court order demanding action on the matter within two months. Kerala Nadi Samrakshana Samiti State general secretary T.V. Rajan, who had moved the High Court, was present. He said the four bunds and a few villas had been constructed illegally. On the other hand, the resort manager claimed that the resort had no role in the construction of the bunds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/panel-to-check-bunds-at-kakkadampoyil-resort/article33663591.ece
26 January 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Varsity appointments to be over by February 18||The appointment of teachers to existing vacancies at Kerala Agricultural University will be completed by February 18, Minister for Agriculture V.S. Sunilkumar has said. Mr. Sunil Kumar was speaking after the online inauguration of the Agricultural Information and Sales Centre of the university at Vengeri in Kozhikode on Monday. Mr. Sunilkumar pointed out that around 150 teachers had been appointed at the university in the last four years. This was apart from increasing the number of seats for various courses from 260 to 420 during the term, he said. Rank lists The Minister also made it clear that steps would be taken on a war footing ahead of the expiry of the existing rank lists to fill the remaining vacancies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/varsity-appointments-to-be-over-by-february-18/article33663595.ece
26 January 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Daily TPR 12.49% in Kozhikode||As many as 439 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kozhikode district on Monday. The daily test positivity rate (TPR) continues to at 12.49% when 3,514 samples were tested. There were 390 recoveries. According to the DMO, there were 424 locally acquired infections and the source of 13 others was not known. Kozhikode Corporation had 86 cases of local transmission while Feroke had 25, Peruvayal 22, and Ramanattukara 18.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/daily-tpr-1249-in-kozhikode/article33663598.ece
26 January 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Last date extended||Calicut University has extended the last date for application for admission to postgraduate courses in affiliated colleges and university departments to January 30. This is for the 2020-21 academic year. Late registration for PG centralised admission process will be available till January 29, a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/last-date-extended/article33663599.ece
26 January 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Curbs on entry of public to R-Day fete||Minister for Labour and Excise T.P. Ramakrishnan will hoist the National Flag at the Captain Vikram Maidan in West Hill at 9 a.m. on Tuesday as part of the district level Republic Day celebrations. The Minister will also inspect a guard of honour during the parade. As the celebrations are being organised by following the COVID-19 and green protocol, the number of participants has been limited to 100. District Collector S.Sambasiva Rao and District Police Chief A.V.George will take part in the event. The public will not be entertained at the celebrations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/curbs-on-entry-of-public-to-r-day-fete/article33663604.ece
26 January 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Suggestions sought from students||College students can submit their suggestions about the future of higher education in Kerala ahead of Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan’sCM@campusevent scheduled at Calicut University on February 11. According to P. Sivadasan, head of the Quality Assurance Cell of the university, the ideas not exceeding 1,000 words can be submitted athttp://events.uoc.ac.in/ StudentsMeet/. Those who register here will get the link to see the interaction with the Chief Minister online, Mr. Sivadasan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/suggestions-sought-ahead-of-cmcampus/article33663600.ece
26 January 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Plaint against teachers’ appointment||A Thiruvananthapuram-based organisation has approached Governor Arif Mohammed Khan, alleging that the rank list for appointment of Assistant Professors in the Department of Education in Calicut University has been manipulated to include the wives of two CPI(M) leaders, including A.N. Shamseer, Thalassery MLA. The university Syndicate is expected to meet on January 30 to ratify the appointment. According to the Save University Campaign Committee, many highly qualified candidates had been given low marks in interviews held recently.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/plaint-against-teachers-appointment/article33663990.ece
26 January 2021||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Rahul to visit Malappuram tomorrow||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, MP, will reach here on Wednesday. He will inaugurate a new building at Government Girls Vocational Higher Secondary School, Wandoor. He will inaugurate five school buses sanctioned from the MLA fund for different schools. He will also attend a UDF meeting at Mambad at 2 p.m., and hand over the ventilators he sanctioned from the MP fund to Government Hospital, Nilambur at 3 p.m. Mr. Gandhi will attend a UDF meeting at Nilambur before proceeding to attend a meeting at Areekode.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rahul-to-visit-malappuram-tomorrow/article33663606.ece
26 January 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Students on a mission to improve voter turnout||The Electoral Literacy Club and the Student Police Cadet (SPC) of Government Higher Secondary School at Agali, Attappdy, began an electoral awareness drive on Monday, well ahead of the Assembly polls. The SPC and the Electoral Literacy Club of Attappady had won national attention by being the first student body to make effective interventions to increase the turnout of tribal voters in the previous Lok Sabha election. From 60 to 73 “Our children could raise the polling percentage at the remote Chikkandi polling booth from less than 60% to 73.08% in the Lok Sabha election. It was a creditable achievement,” said T. Satyan, Electoral Literacy Club nodal officer. The students kicked off their awareness drive by observing the 11th National Voters Day on Monday. School principal D. Hemalatha flagged off a rally taken out by the students through Attappady. Government Vocational Higher Secondary School Principal K. Santhi, High School headmistress N. Vasanthi, community police officer K. Sreeja, National Service Scheme programme officer V.M. Jayanthi and teachers Beena Andrews and Jisha led the rally. For democracy’s success Addressing a meeting held at the school later, Mr. Satyan spoke on the role of voting for the success of democracy. Several competitions were also held for high school, higher secondary and vocational higher secondary students as part of the celebrations. The role of young voters in democracy was the subject of an elocution competition.  Painting contest A painting contest had a polling booth in COVID-19 time as its subject. The winners were given away prizes at the function. The events followed an online interaction with the Central Election Commission, the State Chief Electoral Officer and the District Collector of Palakkad. The interventions made by the SPC and the Electoral Literacy Club of the Agali school had helped to bring more tribal voters to polling booths in the Lok Sabha and civic body elections. 80% in local body polls In the recent local body elections, 80% of the tribespeople polled their votes there. “It was a gift given by the people of Attappady to our children,” Mr. Satyan said, adding that it was first time in the country that schoolchildren were involved in creating electoral awareness among backward sections. He said that special awareness drives would be organised ahead of the Assembly elections in areas in Attappady which registered low polling percentage. “We are planning to rope in differently abled young voters to reach effectively out to the communities,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/students-on-a-mission-to-improve-voter-turnout/article33664143.ece
26 January 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||162 positive in Palakkad||As many as 162 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Monday. When 84 of them contracted the virus through direct contact with infected persons, there were 75 cases without an identifiable source of infection. District officials said that 145 persons recovered from the disease on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/162-positive-in-palakkad/article33664138.ece
26 January 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Mercy College students to support farmers||Students of Social Work Department at Mercy College here will lend their support to the agitating farmers in Delhi through various programmes on Wednesday. They will conduct a street play and a poster-making competition as part of expressing solidarity with the farmers. A march will be taken out to the Fort grounds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mercy-college-students-to-support-farmers/article33664139.ece
26 January 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||New Rotary Club unit||The Rotary Club of Green City will become functional here on Tuesday. Rotary governor Jose Chacko will inaugurate the newly formed Rotary Club at Fort Palace here on Tuesday evening. The new Rotary unit is being formed under the guardianship of Rotary Club of Ottapalam. Rotary officials said here on Monday that the new club would offer free heart surgery for children below 14 years of age in association with Amrita Hospital, free prosthetic arms and legs in association with Galaxy Rotary Club, Coimbatore, and free dialysis for 50 poor patients. They said plans were being chalked out for conservation of rivers and rehabilitation of those who lost homes in the floods in 2018 and 2019.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-rotary-club-unit/article33664140.ece
26 January 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||SSF youth meet||The Kerala State Sunni Students Federation (SSF) organised a youth council here on Monday. Kerala Muslim Jamat district president N.K. Sirajuddin Faisi inaugurated the council. SSF district president Usman Saqafi presided. The SSF elected Rafeek Saqafi Pandamangalam as its district president, Ali Kamba as general secretary and Abbas Saqafi treasurer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ssf-youth-meet/article33664141.ece
26 January 2021||PALAKKAD/MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Laurels for temple art, literature exponents||Ramachandra Pulavar from Shoranur has been awarded Padma Shri in recognition of his contributions to the art of leather puppetry called Tholpavakkoothu. Mr. Pulavar was instrumental in popularising Tholpavakkoothu, taking the temple art out of the temple domain. By weaving stories about legends and myths to the shadows created from leather puppets with traditional lamps in the background, Mr. Pulavar gained huge popularity even abroad. He encouraged his disciples to take the art form to modern stages. It was his troupe that used Tholpavakkoothu to create electoral awareness ahead of the Lok Sabha election in Palakkad. Padma Shri awardee Balan Putheri may not be well known among the literary community of Kerala, but he has contributed to a particular genre of writing. Hailing from Kadapadi in Pallikkal panchayat near Karipur airport, Mr. Balan has been focusing on Hindu temple legends, beliefs, dharma, and rituals. An avid follower of Sangh ideology, Mr. Balan has penned dozens of books on various aspects of Hinduism. The book he penned on Guruvayur Ekadasi won him a unique distinction when he sold 1,500 copies of that book on the inaugural day. Mr. Balan lost his eyesight a few years ago.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/laurels-for-temple-art-literature-exponents/article33664000.ece
26 January 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||New District Collector takes charge||Narasimhugari T.L. Reddy has assumed charge as the District Collector of Pathanamthitta. At a brief function held at the District Collectorate here on Monday, Mr. Reddy was handed over charge by the outgoing Collector P.B. Noohu. Speaking after taking charge, Mr. Reddy said priority would be given to the smooth conduct of the upcoming Assembly elections and the Santwanasparsham Adalat in the district. Discussions The new Collector also held discussion with Mr. Noohu over the various issues pertaining to the district including the Chengara land issue. A native of Kadappa in Andhra Pradesh, Mr. Reddy is a medical graduate and qualified for the Civil Service in 2013. He has previously held the posts of Assistant Collector, Kottayam, Sub Collector, Idukki, Secretary of the Thiruvananthapuram Corporation, Civil Supplies Director, and Registrar of Cooperative Societies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-district-collector-takes-charge/article33663641.ece
26 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Amendments to IDO awaits council’s nod||A set of amendments to the Interim Development Order (IDO), which governs the awarding of building permits and all kinds of land use in the city in the absence of a sanctioned master plan, is now waiting for the clearance of the new city Corporation council. The amendments to the IDO have been hanging fire for sometime, and failed to pass the last meeting of the previous council, as the opposition demanded more clarity on the same. The amendments were proposed considering the issues faced by quite a few city residents whose lands were wrongly marked as meant for public use or as paddy fields or included in specific zones, making it impossible for them to get building permit applications. In such cases, the file has to be forwarded to the Regional Town Planner's office for clearance. The amendments were meant to simplify this process and take such decisions at the Corporation itself. Meanwhile, the Town Planning Department has almost completed the draft of the master plan, which also has to be cleared by the Corporation council. Almost complete “Though the draft is almost complete, we have to hold some more discussions with the new administration which has taken charge at the Corporation. We have to get the opinions of the councillors especially regarding the zoning regulations, which have now been made based on our own technical study as well as the suggestions garnered from the ward sabhas initially. These zoning regulations are subject to the council’s approval. The Corporation will also decide whether more ward sabhas have to be conducted to discuss the new changes to the regulations. We have got in touch with the town planning standing committee chairperson of the Corporation, who said that we can hold a discussion on the master plan soon,” said a town planning department official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/amendments-to-ido-awaits-councils-nod/article33664130.ece
26 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Grievance adalats to be held in capital from Feb. 8||The State government’s ‘Santhwana Sparsham’ grievance redressal adalats will be held in the Thiruvananthapuram district on February 8, 9 and 11. The programme is aimed at ensuring speedy settlement of unresolved grievances, disputes and issues mired in bureaucratic tangles that have been pending for long. Addressing media persons here on Monday, Tourism Minister Kadakampally Surendran said complaints pertaining to Kattakada and Neyyattinkara taluks will be considered at the Neyyattinkara Higher Secondary School from 9 a.m. to 12.30 p.m. and from 2 p.m. to 5.30 p.m. respectively. At Attingal Those from Varkala and Chirayinkeezhu taluks will be taken up at an adalat that will be held at the Attingal Higher Secondary School on February 9 from 9 a.m. to 12.30 p.m. and from 2 p.m. to 5.30 p.m. respectively. SMV School, Thiruvananthapuram will host the final-leg of the district-level adalat when complaints from Nedumangad taluk will be considered from 9 a.m. to 12.30 p.m. and those from Thiruvananthapuram taluk from 2 p.m. to 5.30 p.m. Besides Mr. Surendran, Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac and Fisheries Minister G. Mercykutty Amma will hear complaints at the adalats. Applications can be submitted from January 27 to February 2 either online through Akshaya centres or directly at the taluk, village and panchayat offices from where the submissions will be uploaded to a dedicated portal created for the Santhwana Sparsham programme. Those meant for resolution at the State and district levels will be marked separately. Complainants will also be able to submit their applications at the adalat venues in person. These applications will be settled within seven days after being registered online at the centres. Application fees need not be paid even for those submitted through Akshaya centres. While applicants have been urged to state their mobile numbers in their submissions, docket numbers received as messages on the applicants’ contact numbers will be used for future references. Mr. Surendran said a five-member team led by the District Collector will segregate complaints that are submitted for the adalats. District Supply Officer, Deputy Director of Panchayats, District Social Justice Officer and Principal Agricultural Officer are the other members of the panel. The adalats will be held under tight restrictions to adhere to the COVID-19 protocol. While bed-ridden and those requiring palliative care need not attend the programme, they could depute other people to participate on their behalf. The presence of children at the venues must be restricted. Food courts run by Kudumbasree units will be set up at the venues.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/grievance-adalats-to-be-held-in-capital-from-feb-8/article33664124.ece
26 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Public’s reluctance to test could prove costly for State||Public health experts are anxiously watching the State’s COVID-19 case graph, which, after a period of lull, has been steadily rising and seems all set to climb further. With human behaviour primarily driving the current trend, improved surveillance and better communicative strategies are needed to convince the public that the pandemic curve is rising again. Kerala, with over 70,000 active cases, now accounts for nearly 40% of the country’s active case burden. Public health experts strongly believe that lax public behaviour aside, laxity in contact tracing and follow-up of COVID-positive cases in the field is worsening matters. The impact of family get-togethers during the New Year season are beginning to show. The opening up of schools and entertainment arenas, and the arrival of vaccines seem to have driven the impression that the State was past the pandemic. “We need to be able to study the local pattern of disease transmission and spread in the State better, to pick up initial trends and to act upon it without delay. This will not be possible unless the State releases more district-level data,” a senior epidemiologist pointed out. From the public health perspective, science says that investing more on RT-PCR tests, which are resource-intensive, not easily accessible and which have a high turnaround time will not contribute much to fast case detection and quick containment of disease spread in the community (Rethinking Covid-19 Test Sensitivity — A Strategy for Containment, M. Mina et.al, NEJM Nov 2020). Rapid antigen tests Despite the low sensitivity of rapid antigen tests, by widely deploying these tests, the State could be picking up more people who are actually infectious (those with high viral load will have high antigenic response and if more such people can be picked up, that can reduce disease transmission in the community). The current problem of the Health Department is that all across districts, people are refusing to test themselves for COVID-19. With asymptomatic infections contributing to disease transmission in a big way, this can backfire. The Health Department will have to devise a better communicative strategy to address this issue immediately. The State succeeded in delaying the peak of the epidemic so that the health system was not overwhelmed. This essentially meant that the epidemic will be prolonged and more agonising in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/publics-reluctance-to-test-could-prove-costly-for-state/article33663655.ece
26 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||GST: State receives another tranche||Kerala has received Rs. 303.92 crore from the 13th instalment of Rs. 6,000 crore released by the Centre on Monday to the States to meet the Goods and Service Tax (GST) compensation shortfall. The State had received Rs. 3,413.8 crore as GST compensation shortfall out of the total Rs. 12,100 crore due from the Centre so far. With the release of the present tranche, this will go up to Rs. 3,717.72 crore. Of the Rs. 6,000 crore released, Rs. 5,516.60 crore is for 23 States and Rs. 483.40 crore to the Union Territories (UT) of Delhi, Jammu & Kashmir, and Puducherry, who are members of the GST Council. Till now, 70% of the total estimated GST compensation shortfall has been released. The Centre had set up a special borrowing window in October, 2020 to meet the estimated shortfall of Rs. 1.10 lakh crore in revenue on account of implementation of GST. The borrowings are being done through this window by the government on behalf of the States and UTs. The amount has been borrowed this week at an interest rate of 5.31%. An amount of Rs. 78,000 crore has been borrowed by the Centre through the special borrowing window at an average interest of 4.74%. At Saturday’s meeting of MPs convened by the State, the Chief Minister had asked them to put pressure on the Centre to get the GST compensation shortfall balance due to Kerala. The total GST compensation due is Rs. 12,100 crore.  Rs. 303.92 crore takes total to Rs. 3,717.72 crore||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/gst-state-receives-another-tranche/article33663648.ece
26 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||President’s medal for police personnel announced||Additional Director General of Police (Intelligence) T.K. Vinod Kumar has been selected for the President’s Police Medal for Distinguished Service, announced on the eve of Republic Day 2021. IGP South Zone Harshita Attaluri; Principal, Police Training College K.L. Johnkutty; SP, PSC Vigilance, Rajesh N.; Deputy Commandant, Malabar Special Police Ajith Kumar B.; Additional DCP, Kozhikode City, Abdul Razack K.P.; Dy.SP, Special Branch, Kasaragod, K. Harischandra Naik; Inspector of Police, Karunagapally, S. Manjulal; Grade SI, Vaikom police station, Nazar K.; and Senior Civil Police Officer, DHQ, Malappuram, K. Valsala have been selected for the police medal for meritorious service. Fire Service personnel The President’s Fire Service medal for Distinguished Service has been conferred on Assistant Station Officer, Uppala, George A.T. while Regional Fire Officer, Kozhikode, Abdul Rasheed K.; and Senior Fire and Rescue Officer Mannarkadu Nazar P. were chosen for the Fire Service medal for Meritorious Service. Two prison officials, Assistant Superintendent Grade 2 Saji Kumar J., and Deputy Superintendent M.V. Thomas were chosen for the President’s Correctional Service Medals for Distinguished Service. Three others, DIG of Prisons Sam Thankayyan, Assistant Superintendent Grade 2 Antony K.; and Deputy Superintendent T.K. Janardhanan Nambiar were selected for the Correctional Service Medal for Meritorious Service.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/presidents-medal-for-police-personnel-announced/article33663652.ece
26 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Three held for abuse, burglary||The Fort police have arrested three history-sheeters for allegedly sexually abusing a woman and robbing her of her belongings after barging into her house. The police nabbed Vinod, alias Punchiri Vinod, 38, of Nedumcaud, and Hemanth, alias Kichu, 27, and Vidhyan, alias Dhanesh, 34, both of Malayinkeezhu, in a joint operation with the Cantonment police. The gang allegedly broke into the victim’s house at Maruthoorkadavu on January 21 night. The victim is a friend of Hemanth’s wife. After burgling the house, they purportedly sexually abused her and recorded the act to prevent her from reporting the incident to the police. Hemanth is an accused in 10 cases. The others too have pending cases against them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/three-held-for-abuse-burglary/article33664129.ece
26 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Youth arrested under POCSO charge||The Kadinamkulam police have recorded the arrest of a 29-year old person in connection with the alleged rape of a minor girl. According to Kadinamakulam Sub Inspector Rathish Kumar R., the youth, a neighbour of the 16-year victim, has been accused of sexually abusing her since August. While he initially blackmailed her using a selfie, the accused coerced her into sending him compromising images that he later used to threaten her. Medical examination Upon medical examination, the victim was found to be two-month pregnant. While he had gone absconding since the victim revealed her ordeal, he was caught from Kottaramthuruthu. The accused, who was booked under provisions of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, has been earning his livelihood as a mason. The victim was produced before the Child Welfare Committee, the police officer said.  He blackmailed her with a selfie, coerced her into sending him compromising images and threatened her||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/youth-arrested-under-pocso-charge/article33663635.ece
26 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Three coir and craft stores inaugurated||The coir and craft stores to be opened by the Kudumbashree in association with the local bodies across the State will ensure jobs for several women entrepreneurs and create a market for traditional products, Minister for Local Self Governments A.C.Moideen has said. He was speaking after inaugurating the coir and craft stores as part of the Chief Minister's hundred day action plan, through an online conference. The Minister inaugurated stores which were opened at the Municipal bus stand in Alappuzha, Mararikulam and at the Peelikkode grama panchayat in Kasaragod. Finance Minister T.M.Thomas Isaac presided over the function. Funds of Rs. 5 lakh are being provided through Kudumbashree CDSs to set up the stores. The aim of the initiative is to strengthen the participation of women in entrepreneurship, in addition to micro-finance. All local bodies Mr.Isaac said that such coir and craft units, which will ensure a market for Kudumbashree products, will be opened across all local bodies before March. Coir, handloom and other value-added products manufactured by Kudumbashree units will be available through the shops, sources said. Neighbourhood groups or CDS or ADS members can start such stores.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/three-coir-and-craft-stores-inaugurated/article33664126.ece
26 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||3,361 more test positive||A dip in testing over the weekend reflected in the reduced number of new COVID-19 cases on Monday, with the State reporting 3,361 new cases when 30,903 samples were tested over the past 24 hours. The test positivity rate on Monday was 10.88%. From January 17-23, there were 42,430 new cases in the State and 145 deaths, indicating a 15% increase in new cases from the last week. On Monday, 5,606 recoveries were reported, bringing the active case pool of the State to 70,624 cases. On Monday, 17 deaths were added to the official list of COVID fatalities. Ernakulam reported five deaths, Alappuzha and Malappuram three each, Pathanamthitta two and Wayanad, Kannur, Kasaragod and Thiruvananthapuram one death each. Ernakulam, reported 487 cases, Kozhikode 439, Kollam 399, Thiruvananthapuram 313, Kottayam 311, Thrissur 301, Alappuzha 271, Malappuram 220, Palakkad 162, Idukki 117, Pathanamthitta 117, Kannur 115, Wayanad 67 and Kasaragod 42 cases||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/3361-more-test-positive/article33663653.ece
26 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Minister to inaugurate six fish marts tomorrow||Fisheries Minister J. Mercykutty Amma will on Wednesday inaugurate six more fish marts started by the Fisheries Department with the assistance of the Cooperation Department to ensure supply of quality fish to the public. Cooperation Minister Kadakampally Surendran will preside over the function. The marts are located at cooperative institutions in Arackal and Pavithreswaram in Kollam district; Sabarigiri and Mezhuveli in Pathanamthitta district; Okkal in Ernakulam and Calicut University in Malappuram. In all constituencies The fish marts are part of a government policy to open outlets in 140 Assembly constituencies. The Matsyafed runs 46 fish marts while 36 outlets operate as franchisees in the cooperative sector. The fish marts also have on sale value-added products such as fish pickles, cutlets, curry masalas and dried fish.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/six-fish-marts-to-be-opened/article33663596.ece
26 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Priest found dead||Johnson Muthappan, 31, the assistant parish priest of St. Joseph’s Metropolitan Cathedral, Palayam, was found dead in his parsonage on Monday. The priest, who hailed from Paruthiyoor, was found lying unconscious by some people who had gone to call on him after he failed to turn up for a mass near the Vanross junction around 8 a.m. He was confirmed dead at a private hospital, following which the body was shifted to the Government Medical College for post-mortem. Born to a family of fish workers, Fr. Muthappan is the seventh of eight children. He is survived by his mother Matilda.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/priest-found-dead/article33664125.ece
26 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Attack on police: prime accused held||The City police have arrested the main accused in the vandalism of a police jeep and attack on police officers at Thiruvallam a month ago. The Thiruvallam police identified the accused as Ajith, alias Nandu, 20, of Muttakkad. He is suspected to have led a 13-member gang that attacked a police team on December 24 in Shantipuram in Vandithadam. The police were attacked when they had gone in pursuit of those involved in burglary of several shops in Manacaud and Kamaleswaram. While 10 of the accused had been arrested earlier, Ajith has been in hiding. He was arrested on the basis of a tip-off received by R. Prathapan Nair, Assistant Commissioner, Fort.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/attack-on-police-prime-accused-held/article33664128.ece
26 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Posthumous honour for Muhsin||Muhammed Muhsin, a 16-year-old from Kozhikode who lost his life while rescuing his friends from drowning in the sea, will be posthumously conferred the Sarvottam Jeevan Raksha Padak. President Ram Nath Kovind approved the conferment of the Jeevan Raksha Padak series of awards for 2020 on the eve of the Republic Day celebrations. Other Keralites Muhsin had saved three of his friends from drowning in the sea on the Kodikkal beach in October 2019. Five other Keralites have been selected for the Jeevan Raksha Padak — Arun Thomas, Rojin Robert, Shiju P. Gopi, S.V. Jose, and Bala Naik Banavath.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/posthumous-honour-for-muhsin/article33663995.ece
26 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||313 COVID-19 cases in capital||The district recorded 313 COVID-19 cases and 202 recoveries on Monday as the number of active cases stood at 4,177. While most of the cases have been attributed to local transmission, four health workers were also among those who tested positive. The death toll stood at 725 with five recent deaths being attributed to the disease on Sunday alone. The district administration placed 1,460 under quarantine, while 1,558 others have been permitted to conclude quarantine after completing the mandated period in self-isolation and testing negative for SARS-CoV-2. Currently, 21,643 persons in homes and 55 in various institutions are being monitored for COVID-19-related symptoms in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/313-covid-19-cases-in-capital/article33664127.ece
26 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||CM to interact with KU students||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan will participate in an interactive session with students at Kerala University on February 6. Around 200 students selected from various affiliating colleges will take part in theCM@Campusprogramme. Vice Chancellor V.P. Mahadevan Pillai formally launched a website (www.keralauniversity.ac.in/ cm@campus).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cm-to-interact-with-ku-students/article33663636.ece
26 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Kerala Bank gives loans to 42,594 farmers||Kerala Bank has provided Rs. 803.91-crore loan to 42,594 farmers under Kisan Mitra from April to December 2020. The bank could generate jobs for 10,453 persons through 3,834 loans to entrepreneurs in the first 100-day programme of the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kerala-bank-gives-loans-to-42594-farmers/article33663993.ece
26 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||New norm for driver’s cabin on RTC buses||The transparent material placed in between drivers’ cabin and the passengers’ seating area on KSRTC buses to segregate the areas in view of the pandemic will be removed. KSRTC Chairman and Managing Director Biju Prabhakar said instructions had been given to all unit officers to remove the partition from all buses following complaints of hassles faced by bus crew.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-norm-for-drivers-cabin-on-rtc-buses/article33663994.ece
26 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Oommen Chandy writes to CM on Sabarimala||Former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy on Monday wrote to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan to file a review petition against the Supreme Court order allowing women between the age of 10 and 50 to enter and worship at the sanctum of the Ayyappa temple at Sabarimala. Mr. Chandy sought to revive the memories of the Sabarimala agitation by stating that the government had wounded devotees by forging ahead with measures to upend the old traditions and practices at the ancient forest shrine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/oommen-chandy-writes-to-cm-on-sabarimala/article33663649.ece
26 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||CM’s Transport Medal to five MVD officials||Five officials of the Motor Vehicles Department have been selected for the Kerala Chief Minister’s Transport Medal 2020 for their meritorious service. Babu John, RTO, Ernakulam; Subi S., Motor Vehicles Inspector (MVI), office of Sub-RTO, Mavelikara; Najeeb K.M., AMVI, office of Deputy Commissioner, Central Zone II, Ernakulam; Praveen Ben George, MVI, Transport Commissionerate and Smitha Jose, MVI, office of RTO Enforcement, Ernakulam, are the selected officials, official sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cms-transport-medal-to-five-mvd-officials/article33663660.ece
26 January 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Thrissur posts 301 new cases||A total of 301 COVID-19 cases were reported in the district on Monday while 222 persons recovered from the disease. There are 5,079 active cases in the district and 103 persons from the district are undergoing treatment in hospitals in other districts. So far 84,820 COVID-19 cases have been reported from the district and 78,181 people have recovered. According to the official statistics, 301 persons, including two health workers, contracted the disease through local contact on Monday. Of them, 46 persons are above the age of 60 and 14 are children below 10. In all, 3,870 people are under home care and 105 persons were admitted to the hospital for treatment on Monday. A total of 2,844 samples were collected for testing on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/thrissur-posts-301-new-cases/article33664137.ece
26 January 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Atlas maps birds in a bid to conserve them||Kerala Bird Atlas, an initiative to map the distribution and abundance of birds in the State with the support of the public, was released at the Kerala Agricultural University on Monday. The largest citizen science bird project in Asia, done with the purpose of conservation, the Kerala Bird Atlas team surveyed 4,000 locations in two seasons, the wet and dry season. As migratory birds visit the State in large numbers in the dry season, the atlas includes their details too. The survey, in which around 1,000 birdwatchers participated, was conducted in 600 days across five years from 2015 to 2020. “Apart from distribution and abundance of the birds, we also collected information about their seasonality; how they are distributed in dry and wet seasons. We also surveyed the vegetation,” said P.O. Nameer, head of the Department of Wildlife Science at College of Forestry, KAU, who coordinated the project.  Sites covered The sites for the survey were selected randomly. It covered all kinds of locations like mountains, grasslands, midlands, and planes for two seasons. “The atlas will act as the backbone of Kerala ornithological conservation. With its help we can prioritise the conservation strategies of birds and their habitats,” Dr. Nameer said. By repeating the process over a period of 10 years, it will be possible to scientifically document changes in distribution and abundance of the birds here. Implications This will have huge implications on nature conservation as a whole as birds are indicators of changing ecological conditions. “During the survey we found many interesting things. According to the field guides of ornithology, Babblers are seen across the State. But we found that their distribution is patchy in Kerala,” Dr. Nameer noted. Project implementation The project was jointly implemented by the Kerala Agricultural University and the Bird Count India. The State Forest Department collaborated in the project. The project has the support of close to 1,000 volunteers from 20-odd NGOs from across the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/atlas-maps-birds-in-a-bid-to-conserve-them/article33664146.ece
26 January 2021||January 26 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Picture of neglect||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/picture-of-neglect/article33663982.ece
26 January 2021||January 26 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Pedalling for a cause||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pedalling-for-a-cause/article33663989.ece
26 January 2021||January 26 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Food for the hungry||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/food-for-the-hungry/article33664134.ece
26 January 2021||January 26 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||R-Day fete||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/r-day-fete/article33664088.ece
26 January 2021||January 26 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||In solidarity||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/in-solidarity/article33664090.ece
26 January 2021||January 26 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Inaugurating freshness||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/inaugurating-freshness/article33664148.ece
26 January 2021||January 26 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Preparing a protest||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/preparing-a-protest/article33663657.ece
26 January 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘YSRCP derailing democracy’||The YSRCP is hell-bent on derailing the democratic norms , alleged TDP Polit Bureau member Kalava Srinivasulu, while welcoming the Supreme Court’s judgment. . “It is unfortunate that in the majority of the actions of the government, the courts have to intervene ,” Mr. Srinivasulu said. “Instead of boycotting the video-conference with the SEC, the employees’ unions should have poured out their woes before him,” he added. None of the 13 MPDOs in Penukonda revenue division , which are to go to polls in the first phase, did not accept the nominations till Monday afternoon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysrcp-derailing-democracy/article33664058.ece
26 January 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cancel all unanimous poll results: BJP leader||All the notifications pertaining to the local body polls earlier must be cancelled and fresh one be issued, said Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) State general secretary S. Vishnuvardhan Reddy here on Monday, while welcoming the Supreme Court’s judgment on the panchayat elections. Candidates supported by the Jana Sena Party-BJP combine will fight in the local body polls, he said and pointed out that once the elected body assumed office, large amounts of funds would flow into the local bodies for development. “We want a free and fair elections, not forced unanimous decisions,” said Mr. Vishnuvardhan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cancel-all-unanimous-poll-results-bjp-leader/article33664059.ece
26 January 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Mystery continues over double murder||Mystery continues to shroud the brutal murder of two girls allegedly by their mother at their residence in Madanapalle on Sunday night. Padmaja, 50, who administers a popular educational institution in Madanapalle, allegedly killed her two daughters, Alekhya, 27, and Divya Sai, 22, after reportedly stabbing them with a trident and later bludgeoning them with dumb-bells. While Alekhya was employed at the Central Forest Research Institute in Bhopal, the second girl had completed her bachelors in music and was training at the A.R. Rahman’s music academy. Husband of the accused, Purushottam Naidu, is principal of Madanapalle-based Government Degree College for Women. After being informed by neighbours, the Madanapalle police, who rushed to the residence, were shocked on finding the bodies of the two girls in pool of blood. The circumstances under which the double murder took place reportedly pointed to the possible occult practices by the family. The police are also looking into the possible property dispute angle. The couple reportedly came out with incoherent and weird versions during interrogation. They said they were guided by unseen forces of nature, who “instructed for the killing of daughters”. They allegedly even sought the police to give them 24 hours time for resurrection of their children. Deputy Superintendent of Police A. Ravi Manohar Achari said the couple were under a highly disturbed state of mind, and looked as if they were influenced by paranoiac tendencies. “We have kept them under observation. Further action will be taken whether they require any treatment for psychological disorders,” the official said. The role of the husband in the murders is also being verified, he said Meanwhile, the final rites for the siblings were conducted on Monday evening. A police guard was kept at the couple’s house. The Madanapalle taluq police registered a case under Section 302 of the IPC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/woman-held-after-brutal-murder-of-two-daughters/article33663335.ece
26 January 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Congress tells govt. to clear housing project for the poor||Cadres of the Congress Party on Monday staged a protest at the Rajiv Gandhi statue junction, near Municipal Corporation Office in Tirupati, demanding the Union government to clear a housing project for the homeless people of Tirupati, for which funds were sanctioned by the Manmohan Singh government. The protesting leaders pointed out that Rs. 292 crore had been sanctioned for the project under which, 7,008 housing units were to be provided to women beneficiaries identified under the Rajiv Awas Yojna during the UPA government, and a foundation stone was laid by former Union Minister Jayram Ramesh in 2014. Senior Congress leader Naveen Kumar Reddy, who led the stir, said that former Union Minister Chinta Mohan had brought the housing project for the poor urban women of Tirupati in 2014, but the successive NDA government at the centre and the Telugu Desam Party government in bifurcated Andhra Pradesh had shelved it. “Despite releasing grants for the housing scheme by the UPA government at Rs. 4 lakh per each unit with double-bed room facility, the same was later diverted for other schemes. This has left the poor women in the lurch,” the leader said. Mannavaram project The leader said that the Rs. 8,000 crore NTPC-BHEL Mannavaram project for which foundation stone was laid by former Prime Minsiter Manmohan Singh in 2010 was also kept in cold storage after 2014 by the NDA government. The project was launched envisaging employment generation to lakhs of families in Chittoor and Nellore districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/congress-tells-govt-to-clear-housing-project-for-the-poor/article33663417.ece
26 January 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Concrete block of Tirupati flyover caves in||A huge concrete block meant for erection at a worksite on the Garuda Varadhi flyover caved in at the busy Srinivasam Junction near APSRTC bus station in Tirupati on Monday morning. When the accident occurred, there was none at the work site and a major tragedy was averted. The contractors on the project later deployed cranes to remove the debris. The mishap site and its surroundings witness heavy movement of vehicles and pilgrims.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/concrete-block-of-tirupati-flyover-caves-in/article33664078.ece
26 January 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSRCP MPs to raise Polavaram, revenue deficit issues in Parliament||Chief Minister Y.S Jagan Mohan Reddy on Monday asked the party MPs to raise Polavaram project, attacks on temples, Special Category Status (SCS), revenue deficit and MGNREGS arrears among other major issues pertaining to the State in the budget session of the Parliament starting later this month. “I want the MPs to raise the attacks on places of worship and the police probe pointing to the involvement of the TDP and the BJP leaders. The desecration of a Nandi idol in Srikakulam involves a senior TDP leader. A journalist has also been named in the case. Now, we know that these are politically motivated incidents aiming to create law and order issues in the State,” said Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy. The Chief Minister discussed these issues with the party MPs at a pre-budget meeting at his camp office on Monday. “The financial sanction of Rs. 55,656.87 crore and arrears of Rs. 1,569.86 crore for the Polavaram project are pending. The MPs should raise the issues related to project cost escalation and a final decision should be taken by the Jala Sakathi Ministry,” he said. Besides raising the Special Category Status (SCS), the MPs should also raise the issue of granting sanction to 13 medical colleges to the State. The Centre has already given sanction to three medical colleges. The Chief Minister reminded the MPS that the Centre was yet to pay arrears of Rs. 4,282 crore for paddy procurement, apart from the dues of Rs. 1,842.45 crore of the 14th and 15th Finance Commission grants. Cyclone damage “The State is yet to get Rs. 2,255.7 crore for cyclone damages from the National Disaster Relief Fund. The State has appealed to Centre to withdraw power purchase agreements signed with Kudigi, Valluru thermal power projects and this can save Rs. 325 crore,” said Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy. He appealed to MPs to raise the issue of MGNREGS arrears of Rs. 3,707.77 crore and increase the working days to 150 from the existing 100, apart from the revenue deficit of Rs. 18,830.87 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysrcp-mps-to-raise-polavaram-revenue-deficit-issues-in-parliament/article33664062.ece
26 January 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Every citizen should enrol as voter: Collector||Collector I. Samuel Ananda Kumar has said that every citizen should enrol as a voter and exercise their franchise. Addressing the National Voters’ Day celebrations here on Monday, the Collector said that out of the projected population of 52.54 lakh, there are 40 lakh enrolled voters – 19.76 lakh male and 20.70 lakh female voters. Joint Collector A.S. Dinesh Kumar said that the vote is the biggest weapon in a democracy. Municipal Commissioner C. Anuradha was given the best officer award for voter enrolment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/every-citizen-should-enrol-as-voter-collector/article33664169.ece
26 January 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Students get placements||Vignan Deemed to be University chairman Lavu Rathaiah congratulated the students who have been placed in campus recruitment. As many as 26 students bagged placement in CNC Unitech Pvt. Limited.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/students-get-placements/article33663426.ece
26 January 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||CM greets people on Republic Day||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Monday extended his greetings to the people on the eve of 72nd Republic Day. In his message, he said the people should imbibe the spirit of the Constitution of the biggest democracy in the world . “The idea of India is embodied in the Preamble to the Constitution summarising the aims of making the country a sovereign, socialist, secular, democratic republic and to secure all its citizens social, economic and political justice and equality of status and opportunity, liberty of thought and expression,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cm-greets-people-on-republic-day/article33664060.ece
26 January 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Call centre launched to receive grievances||East Godavari Joint Collector (development) Ch. Kirthi on Monday launched a call centre to receive grievances pertaining to the services of the Village/Ward Secretariats round the clock. People could register their grievances with the call centre by dialling 0884-2358666. “The grievances and complaints received will be forwarded to the respective officials,” Ms. Kirthi said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/call-centre-launched-to-receive-grievances/article33664101.ece
26 January 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Scales of Indian pangolin, antlers of deer seized||The forest officials on Monday seized a few dozens of scales of endangered Indian pangolin and antlers of a spotted deer from a house at Kalajollupeta in East Godavari district. Soodikonda Forest Ranger M. Karunakar said the scales were seized from the house of one Chodipalli Chinnabbu. Earlier, he was involved in three cases of wildling hunting in the Soodikonda forest range. “A case has been registered against Chinnabbu and investigation is on,” said Mr. Karunakar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/scales-of-indian-pangolin-antlers-of-deer-seized/article33664102.ece
26 January 2021||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||National Police Medal for Gallantry for Kurnool man||An IPS officer, hailing from Kurnool, G.V. Sundeep Chakravarthy has been awarded the Police Medal for Gallantry (PMG) for the second time, and will receive it on the occasion of Republic Day on Tuesday. Currently, posted at Handwara as Superintendent of Police, Dr. Sundeep Chakravarthy got it for the second time within 18 months and his name figured in the list of President’s and Police Medals awardees released by the Home Ministry. Son of a retired Resident Medical Office of Kurnool Government General Hospital G.V. Rama Gopala Rao, he had his schooling in the city and did his MBBS in the Kurnool Government Medical College. He is an IPS officer of the 2014 batch.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/national-police-medal-for-gallantry-for-kurnool-man/article33664074.ece
26 January 2021||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||CPI extends support to farmers’ tractor rally in Delhi||CPI State secretary K. Ramakrishna on Monday urged farmers and people to extend solidarity to the farmers who have planned a tractor rally in Delhi on the Republic Day, as part of their protest against the three farm laws. Addressing the media and a roundtable here, Mr. Ramakrishna alleged that the Narendra Modi government was trying to show the agitation launched by farmers in a poor light. “The Centre is hiding the fact that the commoner will be benefited if the new laws are revoked, leading to control of the prices of essential commodities,” he said. Mr. Ramakrishna feared that the relaxation of norms in the new laws would pave way for corporate companies to enter the farm sector and it would work against the interests of farmers. CPI assistant secretary J.V. Satyanarayana Murthy, State council member Chapara Sundarlal, district secretary Sanapala Narasimhulu were present in the meeting. “The party has decided to take out a rally from Oppangi village to Srikakulam in solidarity with the agitating farmers,” said Mr. Narasimhulu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cpi-extends-support-to-farmers-tractor-rally-in-delhi/article33664064.ece
26 January 2021||Sumit Bhattacharjee,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Marpu’ to give a new life to rowdy-sheeters||To give a chance to those who are listed at various police stations under the ‘rowdy-sheet’ file, to enter the mainstream and live a normal life, the city police started a programme ‘Marpu’ (Change) on Monday. Speaking to The Hindu , Police Commissioner Manish Kumar Sinha said it has been seen that many who are listed under rowdy-sheets, have changed for better, but are unable to do something, as their names figure in the sheets. Quoting a recent case, he said that one Venku Naidu who had a rowdy sheet dated back to 2007, had changed over the years and had applied for police clearance certificate for a passport for a job in Turkey. But since his name was listed, he was not able to get it, said Mr. Sinha. Keeping such incidents in mind, the police have started the ‘Marpu’ programme, wherein the names can be deleted, if the officers concerned feel that he deserves. In Visakhapatnam there are about 440 persons on whom rowdy-sheets are being maintained at different police stations. “It is understood that the process of continuance or retention or deletion of history sheets of rowdies needs to be streamlined. It is further observed that there is no uniformity in benchmarking the standards set by the jurisdictional officers concerned, while taking a call on them,” said Mr. Sinha. Review committee Keeping this in mind, it has been decided to form a commissionerate-level committee consisting of jurisdictional DCP (law and order), ADCP (City Special Branch), ACP Task Force and jurisdictional ACP to review all history sheets of rowdies in compliance with the AP Police Manual orders and recommend continuance or deletion or closure of the sheets. The committee will sit in the conference hall of the Commissionerate on all Mondays from 11.30 a.m. and rowdy-sheeters can directly approach the committee or through the SHOs of the police stations concerned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/marpu-to-give-a-new-life-to-rowdy-sheeters/article33664182.ece
26 January 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||An unsung freedom fighter of Srikalahasti||The task assigned to him was to trigger the quest for independence among the unlettered masses, but he had gone beyond this to burn foreign clothes to promote Swadeshi movement and even ambushed a train carrying British soldiers to kindle the embers of freedom struggle. But today, Talisetti Venkatachalapathi remains an “unsung hero”. Born in a simple family in Bahadurpet locality of Srikalahasti town, he emerged a revolutionary leader and became known as a close follower of Tanguturi Prakasam Panthulu. When Mahatma Gandhi toured Srikalahasti, Madanapalli and Punganur towns in May 1929 to mobilise support for boycott of foreign clothes, Venkatachalapathi arranged mass burning of clothes on the banks of River Swarnamukhi in Srikalahasti. During the Quit India movement, he actively followed fellow freedom fighter P. Subbarama Dasu during 1933-1944 and ransacked a train carrying British soldiers at Akkurthi railway station. His valorous act attracted three years imprisonment, which made him vanish from active freedom movement thereafter. For the sensational train incident, Venkatachalapathi was projected as an ‘angry young man’, but he was actually a more sensible person with sensitivities, who cared for an egalitarian society. “He established Harijana Seva Society and fought for entry of Dalits into temples. After independence, he established a leather unit in 1948 to reach out to Harijans,” M. Deenadayal, an academic consultant in History at Sri Venkateswara University, said. Mr. Deendayal’s research article “Freedom movement in Chittoor district and the role of Sri Talisetti Venkatachalapathi of Srikalahasti” was published in the national seminar titled ‘Perspectives of social movements in Rayalaseema region of Andhra Pradesh’ conducted in 2018, under the aegis of Indian Council of Historical Research (ICHR), New Delhi. After Independence, Venkatachalapathi moved to Madras to work as a teacher and later as the Personal Assistant to the then Mayor O. Venkataswami Setti. Back home in Srikalahasti, he started a hostel for Dalit students and continued to lead an insignificant life till he died in 2002. His son, Talisetti Ramamurthy, now an octogenarian, is suffering from illnesses and financial crunch, but his representations for support to the successive governments have fallen on deaf ears. But for the ‘Talisetti Veedhi’ name given to a street, there is no other trace of the existence of such a ‘valorous gem’ from this little town of Srikalahasti.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/an-unsung-freedom-fighter-of-srikalahasti/article33664080.ece
26 January 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Panasonic sets foot in Sri City in Chittoor||Panasonic Life Solutions India set foot in the industrial hub of Sri City in Chittoor district, with the ground breaking ceremony of its new manufacturing facility on Monday. The company plans to make a total investment of Rs. 600 crore in two phases, a quantum leap from its initial announcement of Rs. 294.7 crore in Phase I, to build a manufacturing facility and for further expansion. The facility, aiming to create employment opportunities and industrial development in Andhra Pradesh, is expected to provide direct employment to 600 persons by April 2022. Tetsuyasu Kawamoto, Managing Director of Panasonic Life Solutions India, attended the ceremony virtually.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/panasonic-sets-foot-in-sri-city/article33663422.ece
26 January 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Encourage new faces in polls, voters told||TTD trust board former chairman and ex-MLA Chadalawada Krishnamurthy has appealed to the young voters to move away from the beaten track and encourage new faces in elections. Addressing the ‘National Voters’ Day’ meet held at Chadalawada Ramanamma Engineering College here on Monday, the educational group’s chairman delivered the inaugural address when he flayed political leaders for encouraging hereditary politics. Hailing Prime Minister Narendra Modi for making it to the top from being an insignificant ‘chaiwala’, Mr. Krishnamurthy asked the newly-enrolled voters to give a chance to meritorious candidates having the potential to bring a change in the political system. Additional Superintendent of Police (Tirupati Urban) E. Supraja wondered why students evinced more interest to apply for a passport rather than their voter identity card and lamented at this ‘skewed’ preference of the younger generation. College Principal P. Sanjeeva Rayudu narrated his experiences in a rural segment two decades back when he served as the polling officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/encourage-new-faces-in-polls-voters-told/article33663421.ece
26 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jagan enquires about election arrangements after SC order||With the Supreme Court upholding the Andhra Pradesh High Court order that the local body elections should not be postponed on the ground that the government is preoccupied with COVID vaccination, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy discussed the immediate course of action with Ministers Peddireddy Ramachandra Reddy (Panchayat Raj) and Botcha Satyanarayana (Municipal Administration), Advocate-General S. Sriram and some top officials. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy enquired about the arrangements to be made for the polls that are scheduled to be held in four phases even as the government employees continue to fear the health risk associated with attending the poll duty. “The government respects the apex court judgment. But, the elections were not sought to be postponed to gain an upper hand on somebody as alleged by the opposition parties,” Advisor to Government (Public Affairs) Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy told the media on Monday. He stated that while setting the stage for polls, the government would seek the Centre’s advice on how to go about the COVID vaccination. ‘Ready for polls’ “The YSRCP is ready for polls. It was for the public health that we wanted the elections to be on hold for a few months,” he asserted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jagan-enquires-about-election-arrangements-after-sc-order/article33664069.ece
26 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vote a powerful instrument to save democracy: Governor||Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan said that the vote is not just a right to be exercised mechanically as and when elections are held, but it is a powerful instrument in the hands of people to save democracy. Speaking after inaugurating the 11th National Voters’ Day celebrations at Raj Bhavan on Monday, Mr. Harichandan said the right to vote had been provided as per the Constitution and every citizen of the country, including youth, should feel proud to perform their respective constitutional duties and contribute for the growth of the nation. Young voters should come forward and actively participate in voting, he said and asked youngsters to register themselves as voters once they become eligible. K. Vijayanand, Chief Electoral Officer (CEO), said the Voters’ Day was being celebrated all over the country with the theme of ‘Making our Voters Empowered, Vigilant, Safe and Informed’. Earlier, the Governor presented awards to Visakhapatnam Collector V. Vinay Chand, Vizianagaram Collector M. Hari Jawahar Lal, Prakasam Collector Pola Bhaskar, AP Legislature Secretary P. Balakrishnamacharyulu, V. Vijaya Rama Raju, VC & MD, AP Medical Services & Infrastructure Development Corporation, Medida Jahnavi, Sub-Collector, Madanapalle, K. Bala Tripura Sundari, SDC, KRRC, Vizianagaram, M. Visvesswara Naidu, SDC, KRRC, Anantapur, Chaitanya Bharati, Project Manager in the office of the Chief Electoral Officer, for their performance in enrolling more number of voters. Students take pledge Students of the Rajiv Gandhi University of Knowledge Technologies (RGUKT), IIIT, celebrated the National Voters’ Day on the campus on Monday. They took a pledge to exercise their franchise and enlighten the public on the need for participating in voting. RGUKT Director G.V.R. Srinivas, dean (Academics) Hari Narayana, administrative officer P. Shyam, faculty Bandi Prasad participated. The students of the National Institute of Technology (NIT-AP), Tadepalligudem and S.K.S.D. Mahila UG and PG Autonomous Kalasala, Tanuku, also took a pledge to mark the day. Various programmes were held at V.R. Siddhartha Engineering College, Vijayawada. Senior citizens were felicitated on the occasion at Sri Durga Malleswara Siddhartha Mahila Kalasala, Vijayawada.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vote-a-powerful-instrument-to-save-democracy-governor/article33663425.ece
26 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Court order should serve as an eye-opener for YSRCP: Naidu||The Opposition parties welcomed the Supreme Court judgment on the local body elections in the State. In a statement on Monday, Telugu Desam Party (TDP) national president and former Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu said that it was laudable that the apex court had issued a timely order for conducting the elections. “The judgment will go a long way in upholding the democracy in the State. The apex court’s order should be an eye-opener for the Jagan Mohan Reddy and his party,” he said. Stressing on the need for a free and fair election for the panchayats, Mr. Naidu said that the polls should be held in an unbiased manner without any scope for irregularities and intimidation. “The violence and the harassment meted out to the rival parties by the YSR Congress Party that was witnessed during the election last year should not repeat,” said Mr. Naidu. ‘Govt. must cooperate’ The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) also welcomed the judgment. In a release, party’s State general secretary S. Vishnuvardhan Reddy said all the departments concerned should extend cooperation for the smooth conduct of elections as that the apex court had dismissed the petition filed by the government. He observed that the BJP supporters would participate in the elections, which is crucial for development of the rural areas. Communist Party of India (CPI) State secretary K. Ramakrishna, in a statement, said that the both State government and the State Election Commission (SEC) should honour the Supreme Court’s judgment. “The government should cooperate with the SEC in conducting the polls in a free and fair manner,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/court-order-should-serve-as-an-eye-opener-for-ysrcp-naidu/article33664067.ece
26 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||CS seeks Central guidance on holding polls, vaccination together||Chief Secretary Aditya Nath Das has written a letter to Rajesh Bhushan, Secretary, Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MH&FW), seeking his guidance in achieving the twin objectives of COVID-19 vaccination and conduct of local body elections in the wake of the Supreme Court judgment on Gram Panchayat (GP) elections. Mr. Aditya Nath Das stated that the government started vaccination of 3.80 lakh frontline workers, of whom 1.49 lakh have been vaccinated so far. The vaccine is to be administered to another seven lakh frontline workers of the Revenue, Police and Municipal Administration Departments. Meanwhile, the State Election Commission announced elections to GPs, for which nearly five lakh staff, including personnel of Police, Panchayat Raj, Revenue and Education Departments, have to be deployed at around 1.35 lakh polling stations.  Logistical problem The same frontline workers would be sent to multiple locations on election duty. Due to the logistical problem involved in this massive deployment of manpower and their movement during the polls, the vaccination program would be disturbed. Those given the first dose of the vaccine might not be available at the same location for the second dose. Apart from this, Mr. Das said, AEFI (Adverse Effects Following Immunization) protocols were to be implemented, for which the people who took the vaccine have to be closely monitored. Recipients of the vaccine should avoid stress. In spite of all these issues, both GP elections and vaccination have to be undertaken as per the orders of the Supreme Court and the High Court. The Centre (MH&FW) should therefore guide the State on the road ahead to achieving the said objectives, the Chief Secretary requested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cs-seeks-central-guidance-on-holding-polls-vaccination-together/article33664070.ece
26 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Paper mills to face action for not buying subabul from farmers||The State government is chalking out various plans to help the subabul/eucalyptus farmers in the State. The Cabinet Sub-Committee on subabul farmers’ problems met on Monday to discuss the issues relating to it. Ministers Peddireddi Ramachandra Reddy, Kurasala Kanna Babu and Anil Kumar expressed the view that the paper mills/companies were not purchasing the produce from farmers due to the loopholes in marketing. The companies were hand in glove with traders and causing troubles to the farmers. The government would cancel the licence of traders if the situation continued. Also, the government would make purchases directly from the farmers, they said. There are about 15,000 small farmers cultivating subabul and eucalyptus in the State. They need to be identified through e-crop. Subabul cultivation should be registered under e-crop. The paper mills should buy the produce from them first. Permits should be given to paper mills with a prior condition in this regard. The government was contemplating bringing an online permit system, the Ministers said. The government would share the details of the subabul farmers and the companies were expected to buy from them. AP Agriculture Commission vice-chairman M.V.S. Nagi Reddy, Chittoor MP Reddappa, MLA Monditoka Jagan Mohan Rao, Marketing and Cooperation Special Secretary Y. Madhusudan Reddy, Commissioner Pradyumna and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/paper-mills-to-face-action-for-not-buying-subabul-from-farmers/article33664167.ece
26 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Not ready to attend poll duty, says teachers’ body||Municipal Teachers’ Federation (MTF) and Andhra Pradesh Teachers’ Association (APTA) have expressed their unwillingness to take part in the local body polls duty, citing various reasons. APTA national convener Syed Soukath Ali on Monday submitted a representation to Chief Secretary Aditya Nath Das, making it clear that they were not ready to attend the poll duty by risking their lives. COVID risk “The risk of contracting coronavirus infection is still there. It is not safe for teachers to attend the election duty,” a release quoted Mr. Ali as saying. He said that it would take at least six months to vaccinate the teachers and other department staff. “Elections should be held after the vaccination is over. Teachers will boycott the elections, if need be,” he said. MTF president S. Ramakrishna, in a release, urged the SEC to exempt municipal teachers from the poll duty in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. “Not much of the syllabus for various classes have been covered so far. The SSC exams need to be held in April. If elections are held in February and March involving teachers, 43 lakh students in the State will be affected,” he said. At least , all female teachers and those aged above 50 years should be exempted from election duty, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/not-ready-to-attend-poll-duty-says-teachers-body/article33664057.ece
26 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP, JSP discuss strategy for Tirupati byelection||Top leaders of the BJP and the JSP had a brainstorming session to chalk out the strategy for the by-election for the Tirupati Lok Sabha seat, in Hyderabad on Sunday night. However, they are yet to finalise a candidate. Another round of deliberations will be held soon, a JSP release said on Monday. The three hour-long meeting discussed the election campaign and resolved to invite national leaders of the BJP to take the lead in reaching out to the electorate. The alliance leaders also spoke about the controversy surrounding the notification issued by State Election Commissioner N. Ramesh Kumar for the local body polls in the State. They condemned the manner in which the YSRCP government was treating the SEC and insisted that it was duty-bound to hold the elections as per the Constitution. Union Minister of State for External Affairs and Andhra Pradesh BJP affairs in-charge V. Muraleedharan, co in-charge Sunil Deodhar, BJP national general secretary D. Purandeswari and State party president Somu Veerraju took part in the meeting with JSP president Pawan Kalyan and political affairs committee chairman Nadendla Manohar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bjp-jsp-discuss-strategy-for-tirupati-by-election/article33664068.ece
26 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||3 from State honoured with Padma Shri||Three personalities from the State were honoured with Padma Shri, a fourth highest civilian award by the Centre in the fields of Literature and Education, and Art. Violin maestro Annavarapu Rama Swamy, percussionist (Mridangam) Nidumolu Sumati and Avadhani Asavadi Prakasarao from the State were among the 102 eminent persons who received the award. Mr. Rama Swamy is a native of West Godavari district and moved to the city where he worked for All India Radio for decades. Ms. Sumati known as mridanga vidushi is the first female percussionists and hails from Krishna district. Mr. Ashavadi Prakash Rao who is a native of Singanamala is known for his poetry and other literary works. He was a member of Andhra Pradesh Sahitya Academy from 1996 to 2002.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/3-from-state-honoured-with-padma-shri/article33664176.ece
26 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||13 AEFI cases reported in Krishna and Guntur||Thirteen cases of Adverse Events Following Immunisation were reported in Krishna and Guntur districts following Covishield vaccine administration to beneficiaries on Monday. Across the State, 8,299 Covishield and 791 Covaxin vaccines were administered to the beneficiaries at nearly 900 session sites. While no AEFI cases were reported in case of Covaxin, 13 cases were reported in case of Covishield.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/13-aefi-cases-reported-in-krishna-and-guntur/article33664168.ece
26 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Chaturveda havanam’ ends||‘Chaturveda havanam’ being performed at Sri Durga Malleswara Swamyvarla Devasthanam here for the last one week concluded with ‘poornahuti’ on Monday. Visakha Sarada Peetham uttaradhikari (junior pontiff) Swatmanandendra Saraswati took part in the rituals. Endowments Minister Velampalli Srinivas Rao, AP Brahmin Corporation chairman Malladi Vishnu, temple chairman Pyla Somi Naidu and others welcomed the seer. The temple priests and Vedic scholars performed the ‘havanam’ for the well-being of people. Hampi seer Sri Viroopaksha Swamiji took part in the ‘havanam’ on the first day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/chaturveda-havanam-ends/article33664171.ece
26 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP urges Governor to ensure fair local polls||A TDP delegation submitted a memorandum to Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan urging him to ensure smooth and fair elections to local bodies in general and gram panchayats in particular. The delegation comprisingMLA Gadde Ramamohan Rao, MLCs Buddha Venkanna and M.V. Satyanarayana and TDP national General Secretary Varla Ramaiah submitted another memorandum on ‘constitutional breakdown’ in the State. They alleged that the State Election Commission was attacked in the entire process of conducting elections to local bodies. “Since March 2020 the SEC was under attack by the YSRCP. Bureaucracy in the State has been taken over by it, to the extent that the officials are blatantly violating all service rules . For instance, employees have waged a war of words against the SEC with regard to the conduct of local elections in the State in February,” they said.  Since March 2020, the SEC was under continuous attack by the YSRCP. Bureaucracy in the State has been taken over by the ruling party, to the extent that the officials are blatantly violating all service rules and openly towing the ruling party line. TDP delegation||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-urges-governor-to-ensure-fair-local-polls/article33664065.ece
26 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two more succumb to COVID-19 in State||The State witnessed two more COVID deaths and 56 new infections in the last 24 hours ending Monday morning. The death toll increased to 7,149 and the case tally reached 8,87,066 with a death rate of 0.81% and a recovery rate of 99.04%. In the past day, 141 patients recovered leaving 1,389 still under treatment. So far 8,78,528 patients recovered from the disease in the State. The two new deaths were reported in Visakhapatnam and Chittoor districts. Less than 100 new infections a day were reported for the third time in the past 10 days. The highest single-day tally of infections was just 11, reported by Krishna and three districts -- Anantapur, Vizianagaram and West Godavari -- saw no new infections. East Godavari reported nine new cases, Visakhapatnam eight, Guntur seven, Chittoor and Prakasam reported six each, Srikakulam reported three and Kurnool and Nellore reported two each infections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-more-succumb-to-covid-19-in-state/article33664075.ece
26 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||CPI(M) raises fund in support of agitating ryots||The Communist Party of India - Marxist (CPI-M) on Monday organised 'nenu saitam- raitu kosam', a fund raising programme, in support of the farmers who have been staging a protest against the recently enacted farm laws. On the occasion, Andhra Pradesh Pattana Poura Samakhya State convener Ch. Babu Rao said the BJP-led NDA government at Centre should withdraw the three farm laws. The people have extended their support to the farmers’ agitation by making contributions for the fund. With this, it was evident that the people would always stand by the agitations against black laws introduced by the Central Government, he said. The Central government was adamant and not responding to the farmers demands. Though the farming community has been on agitation for the last 60 days and as many as 146 people have died, the Centre has not responded properly, he pointed out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cpim-raises-fund-in-support-of-agitating-ryots/article33664170.ece
26 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Govt. will respect SC judgment’||Panchayat Raj Minister Peddireddy Ramchandra Reddy and his Municipal Administration counterpart Botcha Satyanarayana said that the government would respect the Supreme Court order on the local body polls. They said the government’s concern has been the safety of employees and it was the reason for taking to legal recourse against the timing of the polls.   The government would give Rs. 5 lakh, Rs. 10 lakh, Rs. 15 lakh and Rs. 20 lakh to the panchayats (for unanimous elections) having population of up to 2,000 to 5,000, 5,000 to 10,000 and above 10,000.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-will-respect-sc-judgment/article33664175.ece
26 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Speaker to hoist flag at Assembly||Speaker Tammineni Seetharam will hoist the national flag at AP Legislative Assembly on the occasion of Republic Day on Tuesday. He will unfurl the flag at 7.45 a.m. AP Legislative Council Chairman M.A. Shariff will unfurl the flag at 7.30 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/speaker-to-hoist-flag-at-assembly/article33664172.ece
26 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Awards for police personnel||The Union Ministry of Home Affairs has announced Police Medal for Gallantry (PMG) for two police officers, President’s Police Medal (PPM) for one officer for distinguished service and Police Medals for 15 personnel for meritorious service in Andhra Pradesh, for the Republic Day celebrations to be celebrated on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/awards-for-police-personnel/article33664081.ece
26 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||City girl Ameya Lagudu selected for Bal Puraskar||Ameya Lagudu, a Class VIII student of Sri Sathya Sai Vidya Vihar, has been selected for the prestigious Pradhan Mantri Rashtriya Bal Shakthi Puraskar 2021. She won this award under category of Art and Culture (for 2021). Ms. Ameya has been learning south Indian classical dance forms of Bharatanatyam and Kuchipudi since the age of 4 years. She has performed more than 100 programmes on various national and international platforms after her arangetram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/city-girl-ameya-lagudu-selected-for-bal-puraskar/article33664180.ece
26 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||EC to roll out e-EPIC cards for all electors from Feb. 1||Joint Collector M. Venugopal Reddy said that the Election Commission is launching e-EPIC on the occasion of 11th National Voters’ Day on Monday for fresh electors enrolled with unique mobile number (mobile no. given with each application) during Special Summary Revision-2021(SSR-2021). He was speaking at the 11th Voters Day celebrations held at the VMRDA Children’s Theatre here on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ec-to-roll-out-e-epic-cards-for-all-electors-from-feb-1/article33664177.ece
26 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Three arrested on charge of land grabbing||The city police on Monday arrested three persons for grabbing a piece of land belonging to a private person and trying to sell it to someone else. The arrested have been identified as Kodigudla Venkata Ramana, Pachi Ramesh and Pothina Jaya Balakrishna, all residents of Visakhapatnam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/three-arrested-on-charge-of-land-grabbing/article33664183.ece
26 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man charred to death as hut catches fire||A 70-year-old man died of burns that he sustained after the hut in which he was living was engulfed in fire at Nathavaram mandal in Visakhapatnam district in the early hours of Monday. According to the police, the thatched hut caught fire from the bonfire that the deceased had lit to keep himself warm. The deceased was identified as R.N. Murthy. The hut was gutted and one cow near the hut was also burnt alive in the incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-charred-to-death-as-hut-catches-fire/article33664184.ece
26 January 2021||January 26 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Growth in the Godavari districts||Popularly known as the ‘rice bowl’, the Godavari districts in Andhra Pradesh contribute a lot more than just rice to the State’s coffers. Considering that geography and the topography of the land plays a significant role in the growth and development, the State of Andhra Pradesh is fortuitous. River Godavari is the principal river that flows through the district and the district owes its prosperity and fertility of soil to the river. The fertile river plains in the delta regions of the major peninsular river Godavari is rich with agriculture-based industries. Factors like the availability of fertile delta lands, good horticultural resources, abundant marine and fisheries resources and good mineral deposits along with the availability of natural gas deposits have benefitted the region immensely. Accordingly, Kakinada has multiple fertilizer refineries and produces large scale of natural gas from the offshore of KG basin. Kakinada also exports seafood and related products and produces agricultural products like rice and corn, edible oils, oilmeals, processed food products, chemicals, biofuel etc. Likewise, Rajamahendravanam boasts of many industrial ventures that significantly depend on the local resources. The main occupation of the district is agriculture, with paddy as the main crop. The district also tops the production of coconut and banana cultivation in the state. East Godavari District also has the unique distinction of having marine, inland and brackish water fish-culture. Fire clay, china clay, Graphite and Laterite are the important mineral resources available and clusters of industries based on these minerals are flourishing in the district. Major industries like Reliance, ONGC and GAIL have major establishments in the city, providing a plethora of jobs and opportunities. Besides the major industries, the region has a number of Medium & Small-Scale Industries being developed by the AP Industrial Infrastructure Corporation. Ancillary industries and infrastructure to support the industrial growth like real estate, urbanisation and markets have also seen significant growth. Today, thanks to many of these industries, semi-urban towns are changing. In addition to employyment and better prospects, with each industry involved in a number of CSR activities in their immediate vicinity, there has been an overall growth and development in many sectors throughout the area. In actuality, Rajamahendravaram is an ancient city that showcases with pride a blend of tradition and development. Known as the cultural capital of Andhra Pradesh, traditions, literature and arts are given as much value in this city as are modern infrastructural wonders, industry and development. It is a classic city where ancient grandeur mingles with modern living. For example, a museum housing ancient palm leaves lies just across the marvel of modern technology - the massive rail-cum-road bridge. For long, the main elements that contributed in the economic growth of this district were the textile, paper and tobacco industries and agriculture (rice and sugarcane). Some of the main industries and institutions in this region include Oil & Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC), Gas Authority of India Limited (GAIL), Reliance Industries Limited (RIL), Central Tobacco Research Institute (CTRI), Glaxo Smithkline Beecham Consumer Healthcare limited, Schlumberger, Vijjeswaram power plant, The GVK Industries Limited, The Jegurupadu Power Plant, Godavari Ceramics Ltd and more.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/growth-in-the-godavari-districts/article33664103.ece
26 January 2021||January 26 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Republic Day 2021||This year, the country will celebrate its 72nd Republic Day on January 26. An often-forgotten fact is that January 26 relates to significant happening which occurred much before the country’s actual independence – way back in 1930. A public declaration was made on 26 January 1930 – a day which the Congress Party urged Indians to celebrate as ‘Purna Swaraj’ or ‘Independence’. The declaration was passed due to the breakdown of negotiations between leaders of the freedom movement and the British over the question of dominion status for India. While India gained independence from the British in 1947, it was only in 1950 that the Indian Constitution came into effect and India became a sovereign republic state. Since then, India celebrates Republic Day annually on 26 January, to mark the day India became a sovereign republic. The Indian Constitution was drafted by Dr BR Ambedkar, honoured as the Architect of the Indian Constitution. The date January 26 was intentionally selected to commemorate the day that Indian National Congress denounced colonial rule and proclaimed Purna Swaraj. So, in spite of the fact that the Constitution was adopted by the Indian Constituent Assembly on 26 November 1949, it officially came into force in 1950, under a democratically elected government system. The country celebrates Republic Day to commemorate the day the Government of India Act (1935) set by the British Raj was replaced by the Indian Constitution as the governing document of India. This day is given just as much, or perhaps even more, importance as the Indian Independence Day. While each state in the country has a flag hoisting, march past and series of tableaus, it is the grand parade in the country’s capital Delhi that garners national and international interest. The defence forces including the Indian Army, Navy, Air Force, police and paramilitary forces showcase their skills and display India’s defence prowess at the parade. An international guest, flag hoisting, parades, tableaus and spectacular display of the country’s armed strength are the key aspects of the day every year. Unfortunately, this year the pandemic has put a severely restricted the celebrations. There will be smaller crowds, no international chief guest, and no motorcycle stunts. For the first time in over five decades that India will not have a foreign head of state or head of government as the chief guest at Republic Day 2021 parade. The decision was taken after UK PM Boris Johnson's decided cancel his visit due to the spread of a mutant strain of the coronavirus in the UK. This year there will be smaller marching contingents, shorter distance for the parade and fewer spectators compared to the previous years. This year will also see the newly formed Union Territory of Ladakh showcasing its own tableau for the first time ever. Also, a new addition this year will be the Bangladesh Armed Forces in the parade.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/republic-day-2021/article33664104.ece
26 January 2021||January 26 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Decked up||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/decked-up/article33664174.ece
26 January 2021||January 26 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||All set for R-Day||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/all-set-for-r-day/article33664072.ece
26 January 2021||January 26 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Collector receives award||District Collector V. Vinay Chand received an award from Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan for his efforts in enrolling a large number of voters in the district as part of the 11th Voters Day celebrations at the Raj Bhavan in Vijayawada on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/collector-receives-award/article33664179.ece
26 January 2021||ANANTAPUR,TELANGANA||‘2.10 lakh students in AP migrated to govt. schools’||Over 2.10 lakh students from private schools have joined the government schools across the State this academic year, said District Collector Gandham Chandrudu quoting a report released by the State government. Meanwhile, government schools in the district attracted 29,402 students. The change, the Collector said, can be attributed to the introduction of English medium, and improving the existing facilities in one-third of the government schools during the first phase under the ‘Nadu Nedu’ scheme of the government. Under the scheme, as many as 15,715 schools have been given a facelift in the first phase and the government aims to cover all schools in the State in three years’ time with a budget of Rs. 12,000 crore. In Anantapur district, work was started last year in 1,294 of the 3,490 government schools with an estimate of Rs. 320 crore. Majority of parents sent their wards to private schools because they preferred English to Telugu medium. Now, with government schools also shifting to English medium, parents can save an average of Rs. 25,000 per annum that they used to spend on fee, uniform and other amenities, the Collector said. The Amma Vodi scheme is benefiting 3.815 lakhs parents accounting for Rs. 572 crore this year, while Rs. 544 crore was deposited in mothers’ accounts last year, he explained. For the entire State, the savings of parents have been estimated at Rs. 525 crore per annum excluding Amma Vodi money.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/210-lakh-students-migrated-to-govt-schools-in-state-collector/article33664076.ece
26 January 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||111 communities come under CCTV surveillance||Director General of Police M. Mahender Reddy on Monday inaugurated 2,058 surveillance cameras at Gachibowli police station. The cameras would cover 18 police stations and 111 communities. Of these 2,058 cameras, 1,145 are installed in Madhapur zone, 405 and 508 in Balanagar and Shamshabad zones respectively, which cost Rs. 11.32 crore. Mr. Reddy also inaugurated three camera mounted vehicles and distributed CCTV Maintenance Kits to 19 technical persons. With over 6 lakh CCTV cameras, Hyderabad is the second-highest surveillance city in the world after Chennai. Speaking on the occasion Mr. Reddy said their target is to set up 10 lakh CCTV cameras in the State capital and highlighted the importance of CCTVs in not only establishing and proving the crime but also in safeguarding the innocent and law-abiding people. ‘Cameras do not lie’ “One camera is equal to the work of the 100 police. Cameras do not lie. Human witness memories may fade but CCTV evidence is very powerful and convincing,” he said. According to Mr. Reddy Telangana police is on par with the best in adapting the new wave of technologies and far ahead of its counterparts of any other States. “Police must always be forefront in adapting the useful technology of the day and it must be used as a force multiplier,” he said.  Uniform service delivery Further, uniform service delivery across all 850 police stations in the State is the aim of the department. “Be it an online or Dial 100 or physical complaint, the citizens must get the same service that is my vision,” he said. A 10 minutes documentary on ‘The importance of CCTV Cameras in Crime Prevention and Detection’ was screened on the occasion. The 500 plus audience were stunned seeing the footage based on which several innocents were saved from being booked. Cyberabad Commissioner of Police V.C. Sajjanar said that their aim is to install 2.5 lakh CCTV cameras in the jurisdiction by the end of 2021.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/111-communities-come-under-cctv-cover/article33663960.ece
26 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Kishan Reddy seeks govt. land for proposed NCDC||Union Minister of State for Home Affairs G. Kishan Reddy on Monday urged Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao to earmark three acres of land for the Central government to establish a National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) in the capital. In a communication to the Chief Minister, a copy of which was released to the media, Mr. Reddy claimed that the Centre had already allotted funds for setting up of the prestigious institution and that he has been following up the matter with the ministry concerned for the past one year. The Minister recalled that a Central team had visited the twin cities in 2019 and held discussions with the medical and health officials here on the infrastructure required. However, the Central team did not approve of some of the existing buildings shown to them by the Telangana government representatives for housing the upcoming institution. The Central team wanted a dedicated facility for which they sought a fresh site. Hence, Mr. Reddy urged Mr. Chandrasekhar Rao to expedite the process of identifying suitable site for NCDC to be set up here before the allotted funds are utilised elsewhere, and there has been no progress on this front last year. If the State government clears the site, the Centre can immediately take up construction, procurement of equipment and recruitment of staff. The NCDC could be a boon to the medical and health fraternity for the region. Besides, it will also help in enhancing research opportunities for the scientists and doctors in both public and private fields. Hyderabad already hosts ace scientific research institutions like the Indian Institute of Chemical Technology, Centre for Cellular & Molecular Biology, National Institute of Nutrition, National Geo-Physical Research Institute, etc. The proposed NCDC facility will add to this legion, he added, in his letter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/kishan-reddy-seeks-govt-land-for-proposed-ncdc/article33663951.ece
26 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Fund crunch slows down 2BHK work in GHMC jurisdiction||Construction of double bedroom housing units for the urban poor in and around the city is proceeding at a very sluggish pace reportedly owing to paucity of funds. GHMC could not release even a fraction of the number of units planned to be completed and delivered by the end of 2020. As per the action plan prepared before GHMC elections, the corporation was to allot and hand over more than 73,000 dwelling units by December 2020. However, the total number of units released does not exceed 3,000 so far. Although about 50,000 units are close to completion as of now, work is proceeding at a snail’s pace owing to pending bills for contractors, officials said. “Close to Rs. 200 crore is yet to be released to the contractors for the work completed. Though each of them is capable of completing work worth Rs. 500-600 crore per month, hardly more than Rs. 100 crore work is being done, that too to protect the already finished portions from vandalism,” shared an official. GHMC’s share of work has been completed for over 30,000 units, where distribution has not been taken up yet owing to lack of infrastructural facilities such as water connections, power connections and approach roads. About 20,000 units need mere finishing touches. Beneficiary list “Other agencies entrusted with infrastructural works are taking it easy as allotments have not been made. There is also the question of funding, which has to be released to them from the government,” the official said. While beneficiary lists are ready in case of in situ housing complexes in the city’s slums, their identification is long pending with regard to other sites. Of the total one lakh double bedroom units being constructed in the city, only about 9,000 are in-situ. Cost escalation of about Rs. 500-600 crore in view of rise in the prices of steel and cement is set to become another sticking point. The government has reportedly refused to part with funds and asked for the additional expenditure to be met from GHMC’s General Fund. Wherever the units are completed, contractors are forcing GHMC to take possession, to save on security expenditure. GHMC has taken possession of about 10,000 units so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/fund-crunch-hits-2bhk-work/article33663957.ece
26 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Complete construction of all hospital buildings’||Health Minister Eatala Rajender has directed officials to provide all resources at hospital buildings under construction, such as oxygen pipelines and fire safety mechanism. At a meeting held here on Monday, the Minister passed instructions to complete pending constructions of hospital buildings. It may be noted that though the doctors at the cenury-old Osmania General Hospital have been requesting a new building, it has not materialised yet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ensure-resources-at-hospitals-under-construction/article33663949.ece
26 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||NCBC holds hearing on irregularities in EFLU faculty recruitment||Spokesperson of All India Congress Committee (AICC) Dasoju Sravan has alleged that the Vice-Chancellor of English and Foreign Languages University (EFLU) has intentionally skipped the public hearing conducted by the National Backward Classes Commission on Monday on the alleged irregularities in faculty recruitment and violation of OBC reservation. Mr. Sravan said after the hearing chaired by NCBC Member Thalloju Achary that there was irrational response from the university on the sensitive issue. Instead of appearing at the hearing personally the V-C had deputed the Registrar and Officer on Special Duty. The Commission Member directed the university officials to give explanation on the alleged malpractices in the recruitment of faculty members. Not convinced by the university officials’ response the Commission Member had order them either to cancel or withhold the recruitment process until a valid and satisfactory explanation was given by the university V-C. The Commission had summoned the V-C and other university officials concerned to appear in person before him on February 3 at New Delhi along with the UGC secretary. The NCBC Member had also ordered EFLU officials to produce service registers of all faculty members and the roaster system they followed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ncbc-holds-hearing-on-irregularities-in-eflu-faculty-recruitment/article33664118.ece
26 January 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Two senior police officers from State awarded President’s Police Medal||Additional Commissioner of Police (Crimes and SIT), Hyderabad, Shikha Goel and Inspector General of Police and in-charge DIG (Nizamabad range) N Shiva Shankar Reddy were two senior police officers from Telangana chosen for the President’s Police Medal for Distinguished Service on the occasion of Republic Day. A 1994-batch IPS officer Ms. Goel had served in Jammu and Kashmir, erstwhile Andhra Pradesh and now in Telangana in different capacities, including IG CID, Inspector General, CISF NS headquarters, Additional Director, ACB, Andhra Pradesh, DCP (North Zone) Hyderabad, and Superintendent of Police, Medak. Earlier, she has been conferred with the President’s Police Medal for Meritorious Service and Indian Police Medal. Mr. Reddy, a 1990-batch DSP, worked in both communal and faction-sensitive areas in erstwhile AP. He worked as SP Karimnagar and East Godavari districts, Joint Director ACB, and DIG Intelligence. Inspector General of Police (Counter intelligence) Rajesh Kumar, was among 12 police personnel from the State who were named for the Indian Police Medal for Meritorious Service. Other officers are Sharfuddin Siddiqui Mohammed, commandant TSSP battalions; Kandukuri Narsing Rao, DSP Nirmal; Suryanarayana Somagani, DSP, ACB; Govardhan Thanneru, ACP, Hyderabad; Ramesh Gunja, Deputy Assault Commander (Greyhounds); M Uddav, constable TSSP Mancherial; Brungi Goverdhan, SI Intelligence wing; Karunakar Reddy Kothapally, ASI CCS Rachakonda; Mohan Raju Batturaju, AR SI TSSP Mancherial; Mohan Reddy Devulapally and Mohammed Nayeemuddin, both constables in Intelligence wing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/two-senior-police-officers-from-state-awarded-presidents-police-medal/article33664121.ece
26 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||HC directs Rachakonda police to permit rally||Justice K. Laxman of Telangana High Court on Monday directed Rachakonda police to permit a rally to be taken out between 2 p.m. and 5 p.m. from Saroornagar stadium to Uppal cricket stadium pledging support to farmers agitating for repeal of farm laws in Delhi. The judge directed the petitioners Pasya Padma of Telangana Rasthra Rythu Sangham and social activist Kiran Kumar Vissa to give an undertaking to the police to own up responsibility in case of any untoward incident during the procession. No tractors would be permitted in the rally, the order said. Hearing a writ petition moved as lunch motion, the judge heard arguments presented by the petitioners’ counsel V. Raghunath and Government Pleader for Home Srikanth Reddy. Mr. Raghunath proposed alternative routes for the rally but the government counsel rejected the same. The judge suggested to the petitioners’ counsel to take out the rally on Outer Ring Road adding that that would get media coverage. In a separate matter, a division bench of Chief Justice Hima Kohli and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy dismissed a PIL petition challenging the appointment of Information Commissioners in the State. Lawyer Vasudha Nagaraj, Amicus Curiae in the plea to assist the court, informed the bench that the petitioner did not show any material to substantiate the contention of politically motivated appointments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hc-directs-rachakonda-police-to-permit-rally/article33663958.ece
26 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Virus tally up by 148 cases||A total of 148 COVID-19 cases and a fatality were recorded in Telangana on Sunday, taking the number of infections in the State to 2,93,401 and death toll to 1,590. The new cases include 35 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation, 11 Rangareddy and 10 Karimnagar. No cases was detected in Wanaparthy, Rajanna Sircilla, Narayanpet, Kamareddy and Jogulamba Gadwal. Sunday saw 19,821 samples being tested; results of 260 individuals were awaited. Of those who were examined, 16,952 choose government health centres and the rest opted for private labs. From March 2 last year, as many as 76,82,361 people have been tested. Of the total cases, 3,234 were active and 2,88,577 have recovered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/virus-tally-up-by-148-cases/article33663945.ece
26 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||e-EPIC cards for all from next month||GHMC has informed that all the voters of Hyderabad district are eligible to take the ‘e-EPIC’ — a Portable Document Format (PDF) version of the EPIC — and this can be verified using authentic and secure QR code reader application. However, till this month-end only the newly enrolled electors with unique mobile (separate mobile number for each voter ID application) can download e-EPIC. From February 1, all electors can download e-EPIC having unique mobile number in the e-roll. If the voter does not have a separate mobile number, they would have to do e-KYC following which they can download e-EPIC fromhttps://nvsp.inorhttps://voterportal.eci. gov.inor through Voter Helpline Mobile app (Android/iOS), a press release informed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/e-epic-cards-for-all-from-next-month/article33663954.ece
26 January 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Fund sanction, vacancy fill-up in focus ahead of school reopening on Feb. 1||As offline classes for students of classes IX and X are slated to begin in all schools from February 1, the demands for sanction of adequate funds to all State-run educational institutions and filling up of vacancies in schools/hostels are gaining momentum. School education authorities have finalised arrangements to restart classroom teaching for students of classes IX and X for the first time in the current academic year (2020-21) as per the prescribed COVID-19 safety precautions. Interested students will be allowed to attend the classes from February 1 with written consent of their parents. Online classes will be run simultaneously through digital platforms, sources said. The present academic year got off to a delayed start in the form of online instruction in September, 2020, on account of the pandemic. As per the academic calendar, the last working day is May 26, 2021. SSC examinations will be held from May 17 to 26. Schools will remain closed from May 27 to June 13 for summer vacation, sources said. The action plan prepared by the authorities envisages child health plans and school management committee meetings to ensure proper sanitation and implementation of COVID-19 protocols. Meanwhile, the Progressive Democratic Students Union  and various other student unions have reiterated their demand for allocation of Rs. 1 lakh to each State-run school/residential educational institution for carrying out necessary repairs of the buildings and ensuring drinking water and other basic amenities to students. Longpending demands of the student unions pertaining to appointment of regular mandal educational officers and filling up of the vacancies of teaching and non-teaching staff resurfaced ahead of the scheduled reopening of schools.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/fund-sanction-vacancy-fill-up-in-focus-ahead-of-school-reopening-on-feb-1/article33664109.ece
26 January 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Brinda wants Telangana government to pass resolution against farm laws||Hailing the Kerala government for passing a unanimous resolution against the Centre’s new farm laws, the CPI (M) Polit Bureau member Brinda Karat demanded that the TRS government in Telangana pass a similar resolution against the “anti-farmer” laws in the State Assembly to demonstrate its commitment towards farmers cause. Addressing a seminar on ‘CAA, NRC – Three Farm Laws – Challenges Faced by People’ organised by the CPI (M) district committee here on Monday night, she said the CPI (M)-led Left Democratic Front (LDF) government in Kerala was the first State government in the country to adopt a unanimous resolution against the “pro-corporate” farm laws to protect the interests of farmers. “If the TRS dispensation is opposing the Centre’s farm laws, it should show its sincerity by passing a resolution by following the example of Kerala government,” she said. “The Narendra Modi regime has made a mockery of democracy by passing the farm laws without consulting farmers and discussing them as per the established democratic traditions in the parliamentary standing committees,” she charged, alleging that the government passed the three legislations in a dictatorial manner in consultation with the big corporates. The BJP regime at the Centre at the behest of the RSS is trying to change the secular character of the republic to further its “communal agenda”, Ms Karat criticised, accusing the BJP dispensation of using draconian laws to suppress mass movements against “black laws” like CAA and NRC. The country salutes the farmers (food givers) for their undaunting spirit in waging a relentless struggle against the farm laws which posed a “grave danger” to food security, right to life of millions of farmers, she said. She hailed the Kisan Parade planned by farmers in the national capital New Delhi on January 26 as a spirited movement to uphold people’s republic, save the country from corporate plunder and protect the agriculture sector. The CPI (M) State secretary Tammineni Veerabhadram, the State secretariat member P Sudarshan Rao, the district secretary N Nageswara Rao, the Girijana Sangham district secretary Bukya Veerabhadram and others attended the seminar.  The Modi regime has made a mockery of democracy by passing the farm laws without consulting farmers and discussing them as per established democratic traditions. Brinda Karat,CPI (M) Polit Bureau member||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/brinda-wants-telangana-government-to-pass-resolution-against-farm-laws/article33663940.ece
26 January 2021||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||‘Feeling proud, but the void cannot be filled’||Bikumalla Santoshi, wife of ‘Galwan hero’ Colonel Bikumalla Santosh Babu, said she was “feeling proud” about her husband being awarded the Maha Vir Chakra, the second-highest military decoration, announced posthumously by the government on the eve of the 72nd Republic Day on Monday. “I am feeling proud, like everyone is, but the void he left in our family cannot be filled. I do not know how to respond now (on the award),” she said briefly in a phone conversation with The Hindu . Col. Santosh Babu, Commanding Officer of Bihar Regiment, was killed in the 2020 China-India border skirmishes at the Galwan Valley on June 15. A native of Suryapet town, the 37-year-old had joined the National Defence Academy in 2000 and was commissioned from Indian Military Academy into 16 Bihar in 2004. He was residing with his wife and nine-year-old daughter and four-year-old son in Delhi. He was due for transfer to Hyderabad in September 2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/feeling-proud-but-the-void-cannot-be-filled/article33663943.ece
26 January 2021||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||‘Congress lost credibility, will never come to power’||Minister for Finance T. Harish Rao said that the Congress party lost the confidence of the people and it would not come to power in the near future. Addressing a gathering after getting admitting three ward members — G. Ravi Kumar of sixth ward, Pulimamidi Raju of 12th ward and P. Renuka of 14th ward — in the Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) at Sadashivapet mandal headquarters town on Monday, Mr. Harish Rao said that leaders from various parties were joining the TRS as they had trust in Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao. Pointing out that development is taking place at a rapid pace in the State, the Minister said Telangana is the only State in the country which has been extending funds to panchayats and had constructed Vaikuntha Dhamams and dump yards. ‘Change visible’ “Change is visible in the villages, which was not there in the past seven decades. Mission Bhagiratha works are under progress in the Sadashivapet town at an estimated cost of Rs. 32 crore. Funds are being extended to Sadashivapet and Sangareddy towns and Rs. 20 lakh was recently released for the construction of bus stand,” Mr. Harish Rao said. The Minister also inaugurated Rytu Vedika at Zaheerabad in the evening.  Healthcare for all Earlier in the day, Mr. Harish Rao urged the doctors to extend service to the poor and needy as running hospitals should be profitable but profit should not be the only aim. Addressing a gathering after inaugurating the Cath Lab at Balaji Medicover Hospitals in the district headquarters on Monday, Mr. Harish Rao said that corporate treatment should be available to the rural people and this can be extended under Arogya Sri. Hospital director Sridhar, executive director Harikrishna and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/congress-lost-credibility-will-never-come-to-power/article33664113.ece
26 January 2021||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Parents’ consent must: colleges told||District Intermediate Education Officer R. Govindaram instructed the principals and faculty of junior colleges not to allow students without prior written permission from parents. Recalling that a meeting had been organised with principals of government and private colleges on January 16 and 18, he said that attending classes is not mandatory for students to appear for the examinations. The district officer has also directed the college faculty and administration to allow students into the college only after receiving consent papers from parents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/parents-consent-must-colleges-told/article33664114.ece
26 January 2021||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Two killed in separate accidents||Two persons were killed in two separate accidents that took place that took place under Patancheru police station limits on Monday. Medari Yadagiri (45) died on the spot when the auto he was travelling in lost control and fell on the roadside, according to Sub-Inspector Sailu and other persons travelling in the same auto were injured. In another accident, deputy branch manager of ICICI Bank Isnapur branch 36-year-old Pratap Kumar was killed on the spot when an RTC bus hit his motorcycle at Patancheru Basaveswara statue. Body was shifted to government hospital for postmortem. Police registered a case and are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/two-killed-in-separate-accidents/article33663962.ece
26 January 2021||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Sangareddy brf||Finance Minister T. Harish Rao said that mini shopping complex is being constructed at Zaheerabad with an estimated cost of Rs. 58 lakh. Addressing a gathering after laying foundation for the mini shopping complex being set up by the District Cooperative Marketing Society (DCMS) here on Monday, Mr. Harish Rao said that another Rs. 20 lakh will be sanctioned for this purpose. He has appreciated the work being done by DCMS chairman Shiva Kumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/sangareddy-brf/article33664111.ece
26 January 2021||Suryapet,TELANGANA||79 CCTV units inaugurated in Suryapet||Like lock and key is to the house, a CCTV unit is for the village, District Superintendent of Police R. Bhaaskaran said on Monday, inaugurating surveillance network for a series of villages. A total of 79 CCTV units were inaugurated with contribution from several donors in Nereducherla mandal. According to Mr. Bhaaskaran, CCTV installations in villages are “protection shields, equivalent to 100 pairs of eyes, and crime control devices.” Donors thanked Villages in Nereducherla - Penchikaldinne and Komatikunta got 15 CCTV units each, Dirsinicherla got 17 units and Gunuguntlapalem was installed with 32 units. The SP thanked the donors for a total contribution of Rs. 10.40 lakh and urged village residents to learn about uses of technology for social good.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/79-cctv-units-inaugurated-in-suryapet/article33664110.ece
26 January 2021||YADADRI-BHUVANAGIRI,TELANGANA||Motivated volunteers trained to help women in distress||Rachakonda Police Commissionerate’s three-day programme for empowerment of women, through its latest initiative SanghaMitra, concluded with enrolment of more than 130 volunteers in the district on Monday. A brainchild of Commissioner Mahesh. M. Bhagwat, SanghaMitra aims to identify sensitive and mission-driven individuals to become support leaders for women in distress in rural areas. The volunteers are identified by Rachakonda Security Council-Women Forum (RSC-WF), a community-safety initiative, through awareness promotion meetings and deliberations with stakeholders, such as through the three-day schedule of events. On Monday, the concluding day’s programme at Pochampally and Choutuppal witnessed more than 400 participants, from officials of SHE Teams and RSC-WF to people and civil society representatives, and students and health workers. From domestic violence to crimes against children and women, support system and redressal mechanism, officials explained the concepts by conducting debates, focused group discussions and experience-sharing. One of the most-participative sessions was on family dynamics arising out of ‘mother-in-law vs. daughter-in-law’, between public representatives and the audience. Mandal leaders P. Venkatesh and K. Pushpa Latha asserted that gender equality was a practice to begin at home, while Pochampally municipal chairperson C. Vijaya Lakshmi spoke about girl child education and concerns around pre-natal sex determination. The sessions also witnessed case studies from MV Foundation, legal remedies for women by Bhumika Women’s Collective, presentations through folk art and survey questionnaires. ll the enrolled SanghaMitra volunteers will be part of an elaborate training programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/motivated-volunteers-trained-to-help-women-in-distress/article33664107.ece
26 January 2021||Bhubaneswar,||Financial aid pours in for Odisha sisters||Financial assistance poured in for Loji Behera, a diploma engineer, who along with her sisters opted to work under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS), to arrange money to clear outstanding fee in engineering college and fund her higher studies in Puri district. The Odisha government on Friday provided Rs. 30,000 as interim measure to clear Ms. Behera’s backlog dues out of the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund.  The Hindu on Monday carried the story titled “Odisha sisters work for MGNREGS to pay fees” on front page highlighting financial crisis of the girl and her family. She was unable to undertake higher studies due to fund crunch.  Civil engineer Despite being a diploma engineer in civil engineering, Ms. Behera had to carry mounds of earth on her head while laying a road under MGNREGS near her Goradipidha village under Chainpur panchayat in Puri district. The story has since gone viral. “Today Rs. 30,000 has been given to Ms. Rosy Behera as an interim measure to clear her backlog dues out of Chief Ministers Relief fund. We are also ensuring that she takes up her higher education without any hurdles in the future,” Puri district administration replied to The Hindu in Twitter. It also posted picture taken during handing over of the cheque. Moved by the heart-touching account of sisters, who along with their family members resorted to drudgery to accumulate fund, readers from different parts of India and abroad came forward to take care of her higher studies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/financial-aid-pours-in-for-odisha-sisters/article33663930.ece
26 January 2021||Chandigarh,||Punjab CM urges farmers for peaceful R-Day event||Punjab Chief Minister Capt. Amarinder Singh on Monday appealed to farmers to ensure that the Republic Day event remained peaceful, just as their anti-farm law protests had been so far. He urged the Union government once again to heed the troubled voice of the farming community in the true spirit of the Indian Republic.  ‘Peace is hallmark’ “Peace has been the hallmark of your [farmers’] democratic protests all these months, and should remain integral to your agitation in the days ahead, including the Republic Day Tractor Rally into the national capital,” said the Chief Minister, in his Republic Day eve message. “The sight of your tractors on Delhi roads will underline the fact that the ethos of the Indian Constitution and the essence of our Republic are inalienable and uncompromisable,” he said, adding “farmers’ arduous battle for survival will always remind us of this truth, and it will always help us remember [lest we forget], that the principles on which stands the edifice of the India we know, and our forefathers strove to build, cannot be destroyed or demolished on the whims of a few.” ‘Threat to federalism’ Capt. Singh lamented that the federal structure on which India’s polity was founded was facing one of its biggest threats under the present Indian regime. The brazen manner in which the three farm laws were pushed through, without debate or discussion, could not, and should not be accepted in the world’s largest democracy.  ‘State subject’ The Centre had no power to legislate on a State subject, which agriculture was, and the implementation of the farm laws violated every principle of Constitution and the federal structure it stood for, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/punjab-cm-urges-farmers-for-peaceful-r-day-event/article33663929.ece
26 January 2021||Jaipur,||MLA booked||Behror MLA Baljeet Yadav and six others have been booked in connection with an alleged attack on the son of a BJP leader in Alwar district of Rajasthan, police said on Monday. The MLA has rejected the allegation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/mla-booked/article33663931.ece
26 January 2021||LUCKNOW,||Hold elections to Sunni Waqf Board, HC tells U.P.||The Allahabad High Court on Monday set aside an order of the Uttar Pradesh government extending the term of the U.P. Sunni Central Waqf Board for the second time and ordered it to conduct elections and form the new board by February 28. Election of such bodies could be deferred “only in most emergent and extraordinary circumstances,” the HC noted. The administrative decisions taken by the board during its extended term would be invalidated after the court set aside the government order of September 30, saying the government acted beyond authority. The HC appointed Principal Secretary of the Department of Minority Welfare and Waqf as an administrator of the board to manage its daily affairs but the official would not be eligible to take any policy decisions. A Division Bench of Chief Justice Govind Mathur and Justice Saurabh Shyam Shamshery directed the Principal Secretary to ensure elections are held and give charge to the new board by February 28. The court was hearing two petitions filed to examine the validity of the orders, July 1 and September 30, 2020, by the State government extending the term of the Board. The State government had in July extended the term of the board for six months with effect from April 1 after failing to elect the members on grounds of the lockdown. The petitioners argued that the Waqf Act, 1995 does not empower the State to extend the term of an elected board and asserted that it acted beyond its authority and for certain extraneous considerations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/hold-elections-to-sunni-waqf-board-hc-tells-up/article33663932.ece
26 January 2021||Mumbai,||Undertrial in Yerwada jail dies of blood clot in brain||Kanchan Nanaware, a 37-year-old undertrial charged under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) and lodged in Yerwada Central Jail for six years, died due to a blood clot in the brain after her medical bail plea was rejected twice by the Pune sessions court. Advocate Parth Shah told The Hindu that Arun’s (Kanchan’s husband who is also lodged in Yerwada jail) parents got a call on January 24 evening from prison authorities informing them that Kanchan was dead. “It was only later that we found out that she was admitted to Sassoon General Hospital for an emergency surgery due to a blood clot in the brain, which was conducted on January 16 without the consent of the family,” he said. Mr. Shah said, “We moved the sessions court in Pune on Monday morning,  seeking that all her medical records and her post-mortem report be shared with the family. Arun wanted her last rites to be performed in Pune. We have got an order in this regard from the court, and Arun and his family will attend the rites via videoconferencing.” Arrested in 2014 Kanchan and Arun used to work in Gadchiroli. The couple was arrested in 2014 from Pune for allegedly pushing the Maoist agenda and recruiting people to be Maoists. Kanchan had undergone two open heart surgeries before her arrest, but was still battling with congenital heart diseases. The Pune sessions court had rejected Kanchan’s medical bail twice: October 2019 and October 2020. “Soon thereafter, we moved the Bombay High Court that directed the dean of Sassoon hospital to constitute a team comprising a gynaecologist, a cardiologist, a hepatologist, and a general physician, to assess Kanchan’s medical condition,” Mr. Shah said. As per a report by the team submitted before the high court, “Kanchan had ventricular septal defect and that she required a heart and lungs transplant”. Till the time a hospital was decided, Justice Bharati Dangre of the HC on November 8, 2020, directed the Sassoon hospital team and the Yerwada jail authorities to monitor and examine her before she was shifted to one of the hospitals in Delhi or Chennai where a transplant could be done. Kanchan was charged under Sections 420, 467, 468, and 471 of the Indian Penal Code, and Sections 20 and 38 of the UAPA.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/undertrial-in-yerwada-jail-dies-of-blood-clot-in-brain/article33663629.ece
26 January 2021||Mumbai,||HC order ‘bad in law’, say child rights experts||Child rights experts have termed “bad in law” a recent order of the Nagpur Bench of the Bombay High Court acquitting a man charged under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. The Bench said, “There is no direct physical contact, i.e. skin to skin, with sexual intent without penetration.” Justice Abhay Thipsay, retired judge of the Bombay High Court, said, “The order is not sound in law. There is no basis for saying ‘no direct contact through skin to skin’. What if the person was wearing hand gloves or a condom, then can it be said that there was no skin to skin contact. The reasoning is whimsical.” Uma Subramanian, a child rights activist, said the order was an “absolutely horrible interpretation of the law”. “In the POCSO Act, even an ‘attempt’ towards sexual assault is punished, then how can it be said that there was no ‘sexual intent’ when the man is convicted under Section 354 of IPC?” she asked. Santosh Shinde, child rights activist who runs the NGO Vidhyak Bharti, said, the order is advantageous to the accused. “This will pave the way for all those charged under Section 8 of the Act to be acquitted. Therefore, I urge the State government to go in appeal against the order,” he said. Advocate Kriti Awasti, who fights POCSO cases in Delhi, said Section 8 had been wrongly interpreted. “Once a person is held guilty under Section 354, it shows his sexual intent, which makes Section 8 applicable. There has been no mention of clothes or without clothes in the Act, so the need for ‘skin to skin’ assault is not needed. The interpretation is flawed.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/hc-order-bad-in-law-say-child-rights-experts/article33663628.ece
26 January 2021||Navi Mumbai,||Four booked for duping policeman of Rs. 50 lakh||The Kharghar police have booked four people who promised a flat to a policeman and swindled Rs. 50 lakh from him. A case of cheating has been filed against Gopal Thakur, Hasmukh Thakur and Roshan Sheth, partners of Monarch Realty Management Services Company; and real estate agent Somnath Landage. The complaint was filed by police inspector Pramod Bhovate, a resident of Sector 20 in Kharghar, who is posted with the Mumbai Police’s special branch. In 2014, the firm told Mr. Bhovate that the construction of the flats he had booked was stalled. “When the firm refused to give him possession of the flat or return his money, he approached us,” senior police inspector Shatrughna Mali said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/four-booked-for-duping-policeman-of-rs-50-lakh/article33663626.ece
26 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Farmers march to the Capital for tractor parade||More farmers from Punjab, Haryana and other States are marching towards Delhi to participate in the tractor rally on Republic day. Hardeep Singh from Patiala said he took leave for three days to join the protest at the Singhu border. “Four other friends and I have come to Delhi to join the tractor rally. I was following the entire movement on social media and was planning to join it. It will be a memorable day to be part of kisan tractor rally on Republic Day,” said Mr. Singh. Shoulder-to-shoulder Kuldeep Singh from Fazilka district reached the Singhu border still wearing his wedding dress. He got married two days ago and has come to support his brothers. On Monday, a large number of women also joined the protest and will participate in the rally, and some of them will drive tractors at the ‘Kisan Gantantra Parade’. Social activist Zeba Khan said women will take part in the rally shoulder-to-shoulder with male farmers. Ms. Khan claimed that at least 500 women will attend the parade.  “Women’s contribution was invaluable during India’s freedom struggle. On Tuesday also, we will be there to make our contribution to this movement,” she said.  ‘A crucial moment’ The activist, who hails from a family of farmers in Jharkhand, added that the rally was a crucial moment in their agitation, which was “no less than a freedom struggle”. “The farm laws are similar to the pre-Independence shackles of slavery. Through this protest, we are making our presence felt, and exercising our right to enter Delhi,” she said. Gurmeet Singh, a protesting farmer from Patiala, said women’s participation was key to the success of the agitation. “These are not just any women. These are daughters of farmers, and their participation will be proof of what the farmers are capable of,” he asserted. Meanwhile, Delhi Police has given No Objection Certificate (NOC) to the tractor rally after leaders agreed on 37 conditions in a meeting with the police, said a senior police officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/farmers-march-to-the-capital-for-tractor-parade/article33663624.ece
26 January 2021||New Delhi,||‘WhatsApp policy for Indian users is cause for concern’||The Centre on Monday told the Delhi High Court that the differential treatment by WhatsApp of Indian users compared with their European counterparts with respect to its privacy policy was a “cause for concern for the government”. Additional Solicitor-General Chetan Sharma said: “While the privacy policy offered by WhatsApp to its European users specifically prohibits sharing of any information with Facebook, this provision is not offered to Indian citizens who form a very substantial part of WhatsApp’s user base.” “The government is also concerned in the way Indian users have been subjected to these changes rather unilaterally. By not providing the Indian users the ability to opt out of this data being shared with other Facebook companies, WhatsApp prima facie seems to be treating Indian users with an all-or-nothing approach,” he added. This, Mr. Sharma, said may infringe on Indian users’ interest in relation to information privacy and information security. The submissions were made before Justice Sanjeev Sachdeva during the hearing of a petition by a lawyer against the new privacy policy of WhatsApp. Mr. Sharma said though the issue is between two private parties — WhatsApp and its users — “the scope and expanse of WhatsApp makes it a germane ground that reasonable and cogent policies are put in place, which is being done by the Personal Data Protection Bill”. He added, “The Personal Data Protection Bill is being discussed by the Joint Committee of Parliament.” Taking note of this, Justice Sachdeva adjourned the hearing to March 1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/whatsapp-policy-for-indian-users-is-cause-for-concern/article33664052.ece
26 January 2021||New Delhi,||‘Avoid routes where farmers will be holding protest rally’||The Delhi Traffic Police on Monday asked commuters to avoid routes where farmers will conduct a tractor parade on Republic Day. The farmers’ tractor rally will be taken out on Tuesday from three borders of Delhi and the traffic will remain affected on these routes and the roads leading to these routes, the police said. “The first rally will start from the Singhu border to Sanjay Gandhi Transport Nagar, DTU, Shahabad Dairy, Barwala Village, Pooth Khurd Village, Kanjhawala T-Point, Kanjhawala Chowk, Kutubgarh, Auchandi Border and Kharkhoda Toll Plaza. “The traffic going towards NH-44, G.T. Karnal Road will be diverted,” Joint Commissioner of Police (Traffic) Meenu Chowdhary said. The second rally will start from the Tikri border and pass through Nangloi, Baprola Village, Najafgarh excluding Phirni Road, Jharoda Border, Rohtak Bypass (Bahadurgarh) and Asoda Toll Plaza, Ms. Chowdhary said. The Ghazipur border rally will reach to some portion of NH-24.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/avoid-routes-where-farmers-will-be-taking-out-rally/article33663625.ece
26 January 2021||New Delhi,||Cong. to accord warm welcome to tractor rally||The Delhi Congress on Monday said that party workers will accord a warm welcome to the farmers’ tractor rally as it enters the city on Republic Day. Delhi Pradesh Congress Committee president Ch. Anil Kumar said he would be present at one of the points of the rally route to pledge solidarity with the farmers’ protest. He said the rally will be a loud statement of the farmers’ anguish and anxiety against the farm laws.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/cong-to-accord-warm-welcome-to-tractor-rally/article33663623.ece
26 January 2021||Pune,||Over 3,000 recoveries recorded in Maharashtra||Maharashtra on Monday recorded 3,080 recoveries and 1,842 new COVID-19 cases. The active case tally has dipped to 43,561, while the total case tally has touched 20,10,948. Thirty fatalities saw the death toll climb to 50,815 and cumulative recoveries stand at 19,15,344. While the State’s recovery rate is 95.25%, the case fatality stands at 2.53%. Pune reported over 250 new cases to take its tally to 3,85,708. No deaths were reported and the toll remains constant at 7,901. As per district administration figures, the active case tally stands at 4,888, while the recovery rate is 96.33%. Mumbai reported 348 new cases to take its total case tally to 3,06,398, of which just 6,159 are active. Seven fatalities saw the toll reach 11,311. Nagpur district in Vidarbha reported more than 200 new cases, taking the district’s total case tally to 1,34,263, of which 3,984 are active. Six deaths saw the death toll reach 3,332. In western Maharashtra, Satara reported no deaths while 39 fresh cases saw the tally rise to 56,066, of which just 674 are active. Its death toll stands at 1,810.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/over-3000-recoveries-recorded-in-maharashtra/article33663627.ece
26 January 2021||Beijing,||At Davos forum, Xi warns world leaders against ‘new Cold War’||Chinese President Xi Jinping warned global leaders at an all-virtual World Economic Forum (WEF) at Davos on Monday against starting a “new Cold War”, and urged global unity in the face of the coronavirus pandemic. Having largely curbed the spread of the pandemic within its borders, Mr. Xi wants to position China as a key player in a new multilateral world order as the U.S. remains crippled by the pandemic. “To build small cliques or start a new Cold War, to reject, threaten or intimidate others... will only push the world into division,” said Mr. Xi, adding that confrontation will lead to a “dead end”. In a swipe at moves targeting China launched by the previous U.S. government, Mr. Xi said confrontation “will always end up harming every nation’s interests and sacrificing people’s welfare”. The Chinese leader also reaffirmed Beijing’s ambitious climate pledges to slash carbon emissions by 65% by 2030 and achieve carbon neutrality by 2060 — both significant commitments as China emits a quarter of the world’s greenhouse gases. “Meeting these targets will require tremendous hard work from China. But we believe that when the interests of the entire humanity are at stake, China must step forward, take action and get the job done,” he said. In virtual format because of the pandemic, this week’s event is headlined: “A Crucial Year to Rebuild Trust.” The big names from Europe will be German Chancellor Angela Merkel, French President Emmanuel Macron and European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen, who heads the European Union executive. Shift to Singapore U.S. President Joe Biden will not appear at Davos. John Kerry, the special climate envoy, will be attending the virtual event. Following the first virtual session, Davos will move in May to Singapore, far from the luxury Swiss ski resort where it has taken place since it was launched in 1971, the brainchild of German professor Klaus Schwab. The stated reason for the change is health and safety, as the city-state has recorded just 29 COVID-19 deaths. But there is also an economic background to the move underscored by French insurance-credit group Euler Hermes, who said in a study this month that the “world’s economic centre of gravity” (WECG) has been moving towards Asia since 2002. Booking growth of 2.3% last year while other major economies slumped, China is now on course to equal the size of the U.S. economy in 2030, two years earlier than the analysts predicted before the pandemic. “The COVID-19 crisis could accelerate the shifting global balance towards Asia,” Euler Hermes said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/at-davos-forum-xi-warns-world-leaders-against-new-cold-war/article33663323.ece
26 January 2021||Washington,||‘U.S. to reinstate travel bans’||President Joe Biden will re-impose a COVID-19 travel ban on most non-U.S. citizens who have been in Britain, Brazil, Ireland and much of Europe, a White House official said on Sunday, as the new administration ramps up its pandemic response. Mr. Biden will also on Monday extend the ban to travellers who have recently been to South Africa amid warnings that new, more transmissible coronavirus variants are already establishing themselves in the U.S., the official said. Former President Donald Trump had announced an initial ban on January 31, 2020, which was extended to European countries on March 14.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-to-reinstate-travel-bans/article33663321.ece
26 January 2021||January 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Biden to sign executive order to boost ‘Buy American’ rules||U.S. President Joe Biden will sign an executive order on Monday requiring the federal government to increase its purchases of American goods, relative to foreign goods. Monday’s order asks agencies to update the existing ‘Buy American’ government procurement rules — including by requiring an increase in the amount of domestic content that has to go into products being sold to the federal government and updating how the composition of products is measured. It also increased the government’s price differential for American products relative to foreign ones. The order also mandates the creation of a new senior position to oversee the “Buy American” programme and a website to publish any waivers to the sourcing requirements. Mr. Biden has been undoing a number of his predecessor Donald Trump’s policies — such as those that were viewed as divisive, or harmed particular minority groups, or promoted American retrenchment from the world. However, Monday’s order is in the same thematic direction as at least some of Mr. Trump’s policies that sought to use the power of the federal government — $600 billion a year in contracts — to promote domestic rather than foreign industry. Some two-thirds of the purchases were made by the Defense Department. Manufacturing jobs have been on the decline in the U.S. over the last two decades, not just because sourcing abroad was more cost effective but also due to a significant increase in automation. Mr. Trump ran a campaign in 2016 promising a manufacturing resurgence. In the first 30 months of the Trump administration, U.S. manufacturing added just under 5,00,000 jobs — a stronger record in this respect than the last 30 months of the Obama administration. However, Mr Trump’s trade war with China followed by the pandemic was bad news for manufacturing job growth. There are some 60,000 fewer manufacturing jobs now in the U.S. than when Mr. Trump took office, according to AP Fact Check. “This order is deeply intertwined with the President’s commitment to invest in American manufacturing, including clean energy and critical supply chains, grow good-paying, union jobs, and advance racial equity,” an announcement from the White House said. Impact on India While the order will impact several countries that trade with the U.S. government, Indian manufacturers are not likely to be impacted in a significant way. “I seriously doubt there will be a significant impact on Indian exporters,” Mark Linscott, a former Assistant U.S. Trade Representative told The Hindu . “U.S. procurement is already very restricted for India because India is not part on any trade agreement with the U.S. covering government procurement. U.S. statistics show that India is not among the top 20 foreign suppliers to the U.S. procurement market,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/biden-to-sign-executive-order-to-boost-buy-american-rules/article33663320.ece
26 January 2021||Kampala,||Uganda High Court orders end to Bobi Wine’s house arrest||Uganda’s High Court on Monday ordered security forces to end their confinement of presidential election runner-up Bobi Wine. Mr. Wine, whose real name is Robert Kyagulani, has been under de-facto house arrest at his home outside the capital, Kampala, since he returned from voting on January 14. He won won 35% of the vote, according to official figures. Sitting at the court’s Civil Division in Kampala, Justice Michael Elubu ruled: “The continued indefinite restriction and confinement of the applicant to his home is unlawful and his right to liberty has been infringed.” “Having found that the restrictions are unlawful it is hereby ordered that they are lifted,” added Justice Elubu.  Ugandan security forces have in the past disregarded court orders to release individuals or have immediately re-arrested people freed by the courts. “Several hours later, the military still surrounds my home, blocking access to all! Perhaps (as always) waiting for Gen. Museveni’s orders on the next course of action,” Mr. Wine wrote on Twitter, after the judgment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/uganda-high-court-orders-end-to-bobi-wines-house-arrest/article33663328.ece
26 January 2021||Jerusalem,||Israel extradites woman wanted for sex crimes||Israeli authorities on Monday extradited a former teacher accused of sexually abusing her former students in Australia, capping a six-year legal battle that strained relations between the two governments and antagonised Australia's Jewish community. Malka Leifer, who is wanted on 74 charges of child sex abuse in Australia, was placed on a flight early in the day, several hours before Israel was to close its international airport to nearly all air traffic due to a raging pandemic. Israeli media photographed Leifer boarding a plane at Ben Gurion Airport, her ankles and wrists shackled. Her lawyer, Nick Kaufman, confirmed the extradition. Leifer, a former teacher accused of sexually abusing several former students at a Jewish school in Melbourne, had been fighting extradition since 2014. Leifer, however, maintains her innocence. The protracted court case and repeated delays over her extradition had drawn criticism from Australian officials as well as the country’s Jewish leaders. “This is an incredible day for justice!” said Manny Waks, head of Voice against Child Sex Abuse, an organisation representing Leifer’s victims. “We can now truly look forward to Leifer facing justice in Australia on the 74 charges,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/israel-extradites-woman-wanted-for-sex-crimes/article33663325.ece
26 January 2021||Washington,||Moderna says vaccine is effective against variants||U.S. biotech firm Moderna said on Monday its vaccine should remain protective against key coronavirus variants while the unrelenting pandemic led to tightened border restrictions worldwide. In the face of deepening fears over new virus strains, Moderna offered some good news from lab studies of the variants first identified in the United Kingdom and South Africa. “We are encouraged by these new data, which reinforce our confidence that the Moderna COVID-19 vaccine should be protective against these newly detected variants,” said CEO Stephane Bancel. However, out of caution, Moderna will carry out more tests adding a second booster of its vaccine— to make three shots in total.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/moderna-says-vaccine-is-effective-against-variants/article33663326.ece
26 January 2021||Washington,||Russia hits out at U.S. over Navalny rallies||Russia formally protested to the U.S. Embassy in Moscow on Monday over social media posts it said promoted anti-Kremlin demonstrations and accused U.S. tech giants of interfering in its internal affairs. On Saturday, tens of thousands rallied in support of jailed Kremlin critic Alexei Navalny. Russia’s Deputy Foreign Minister held talks with the U.S. Ambassador to register dissatisfaction over the Embassy’s messages, Ministry spokeswoman Maria Zakharova said. She said Sergei Ryabkov expressed “strong protest” over the U.S. Embassy “spreading posts supporting illegal rallies in a number of Russian cities on social networks and on their Internet platforms”. Ahead of the rallies, Russia’s media watchdog Roskomnadzor ordered several social media platforms, including YouTube and Instagram, to delete calls for demonstrations that were posted on their platforms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/russia-hits-out-at-us-over-navalny-rallies/article33663327.ece
26 January 2021||QUETTA,||AS--Pakistan-Dissident||Pakistani dissident Karima Baloch, who died in exile in Canada last month, was laid to rest in her home village in Balochistan province under tight security. She was a fierce critic of Pakistani spy agencies over “abduction of activists”. Her supporters claim that Pakistani troops had sealed off the village and prevented them from attending her burial.AP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/as-pakistan-dissident/article33663324.ece
26 January 2021||January 26 2021 00:00 IST,||The script of another ‘parade’ on Republic Day||The January 26 ‘parade’ on the Rajpath in the nation’s capital is permanently lodged in the national imagination as the finest republican rite. The ritual is designed to underline the republican nature of our governing arrangement, by demonstrating to ourselves — and, to the world — that the armed forces formally offer salute and respect to the civilian authority, symbolised by the President of India. This theme will be re-affirmed this year also, notwithstanding that the traditional parade has over the years been used to ‘show-case’ India’s military might. There will be no dilution of this national celebration. Yet, the capital will also witness another parade — a parallel march by the (protesting) farmers, all in their loose-fitting uniforms of insurrection. This tractor rally can only be showcased as a veritable carnival of defiance and a festival of protest. Never before has the Republic been presented with such a rival celebration of democracy. A crisis by the functionaries The contrast between the two celebrations brings the nation face to face with a crisis creeping upon us — a crisis of legitimacy of traditional politics. Ironically enough, the crisis has been precipitated by those very functionaries who are entrusted with the responsibility of upholding the Republic and nourishing its democratic sustainability. As the farmers protest the three contentious “farm laws”, the government argues that it is merely trying to ‘reform’ the agriculture sector. The NITI Aayog managers and other corporate hired hands are entitled to chant the ‘reform’ mantra. But each and every ‘reform’ entails a certain social cost and economic pain, and it is the task of democratic politics to strive for a balance between pain and gain through a process of conciliation and compromise. However, that traditional responsibility no longer finds favour with the rulers of the “new India”. Consequently, the farmers, too, have felt compelled to go beyond the traditional intermediaries of political parties and have confronted the Narendra Modi regime with a non-party upsurge. The farmers’ siege is not just against these three laws; they are challenging three crucial elements in Mr. Modi’s inexorable authoritarian project. It is only one voice First, the Modi project vehemently insists on denying authenticity to voices other than those from the Sangh Parivar. The ruling clique arrogates to itself not only the monopoly of desh bhakti but also claims a total control over wisdom, gyaan , initiative and inspiration; correspondingly, it denies legitimacy to civil society and its voices. Not for it a contraption such as a National Advisory Council. All non-Parivar non-governmental organisations are suspect in its eyes, just as the very idea of a social movement is denied any validity. Predictably, the ruling clique has vindictively used the agencies of the state — the Central Bureau of Investigation, the National Investigation Agency, the Enforcement Directorate, the intelligence agencies, the income-tax man, etc — to harass, coerce and eventually neutralise and silence dissent and dissenters. It continuously updates its blue book of tricks — how to disrupt, discredit and diffuse democratic dissent; and, it has perfected the standard operating procedure on how to use and manipulate the media to demonise democratic ideas, sentiments, grievances and anxieties. Manipulate and marginalise Second, the Modi project is pivoted on an unprecedented use of the state’s resources to manufacture consent for the ruling clique and to fabricate adulation for the Leader. In this quest, society’s inherent capacity for notions of nationalism, patriotism, xenophobia have been cynically exploited; the armed forces and their valour have been manipulated for the ruling clique’s narrow partisan ends. Third, all these exertions and excesses have resulted in the marginalisation of the traditional political parties; the manufactured euphoria and exultation for the ruling clique have been used to devalue the most sacred site of traditional politics — Parliament. Conventional wisdom holds that in a parliamentary democracy, the Opposition must have its say while the government must have its way; now, the Opposition is not even allowed a say. Once Parliament got degraded, it was easy to browbeat the other constitutional institutions — the judiciary, the Election Commission of India, etc — into becoming the ruling clique’s enablers. Cumulatively, parliamentary democracy stands debilitated as the effective instrument of compromise, conciliation and harmony. And the government reaps what it has sown. Unsurprisingly, the farmers see no merit in the three laws almost dubiously passed by Parliament; nor do they trust the government’s assurance, no trust in its word; and, even the Supreme Court was indirectly conveyed that its intervention was not going to make a difference. Misreading the farmers Having choked off all conventional avenues of negotiations and grievance -resolution, the Modi government found itself confronted in a losing stand-off with the farmers. With all the familiar arrogance of an authoritarian regime, the ruling clique failed to read the Punjab protesters. They represent an old tradition of defiance of the imperial imposition. For want of a better term, let us call it the Bhagat Singh constituency. The farmer-activists have re-discovered the old spirit of defiance and are happily prepared for consequences and sacrifices. For the first time in the last seven years, the ruling clique has not been able to win the moral argument. Bad optics for government On the contrary, for the first time, there is an Opposition that is not prepared to cede any kind of moral superiority to the Modi regime. The optics are all to the government’s disadvantage — small and marginal farmers fighting to safeguard themselves against the predatory corporate giants and the ruling clique has to position itself in this fight against the small man. Worse, the farmers have blunted the Modi regime’s standard operating procedure in dealing with Opposition voices and groups — unlike the Shaheen Bagh protest, the farmers could not be demonised as Pakistani agents, or as the Khalistani agents provocateurs; worse, a Hindu-Muslim divide could not be introduced. The onus was and remains on the Modi regime to fire the first shot. The farmers have created their own imaginary Stalingrad, exhilarated in defiance, unyielding in defence of their land — and they have worked out a morally-uplifting narrative, with heroes, martyrs and joyful sacrifices. They have displayed discipline, solidarity and purpose in challenging the Modi regime and its authoritarian encroachments. In this insubordination, bordering on subversion, the protesting farmers have revitalised the democratic polity; and, because of their upsurge, the Republic stands morally recharged. No small achievement this. Harish Khare is a senior journalist based in Delhi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-script-of-another-parade-on-republic-day/article33663305.ece
26 January 2021||January 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Can the Biden-Harris team save the planet?||After four years of egregious anti-environmental policies during the Trump years, climate change activists and the general public can breathe a sigh of relief now that the Biden-Harris team has taken office in the White House. The new administration has been quick to rejoin the Paris Agreement on its very first day in office. A return to the Obama era, however, would be tragic if that simply means a continuation of the U.S. bullying poor nations to impose harsh restrictions on their carbon emissions without financial and technical support, protecting corporate interests at the expense of the global commons, and failing to acknowledge its own massive contribution to the climate crisis. Still, the U.S. was once at the forefront of generating widespread awareness on climate change. Its scientists and political leadership were keen to take ambitious strides to address the challenge. What changed in the intervening years? A brief history In 1957, the U.S. National Academy of Sciences, chaired by MIT scientist Thomas F. Malone, launched its First General Report on Climatology addressed to the Chief of the Weather Bureau, stating: “In consuming our fossil fuels at a prodigious rate, our civilization is conducting a grandiose scientific experiment”. The next year, Charles Keeling, along with his mentors Harry Wexler and Roger Revelle, began the now famous measurements of atmospheric concentrations of carbon dioxide at Mauna Loa in Hawaii, producing reliable evidence of the relentless rise in anthropogenic greenhouse gases over subsequent decades. In 1965, President Lyndon Johnson’s Science Advisory Committee produced a report entitled “Restoring the Quality of our Environment”, which pointed to rising concentrations of CO2 in the atmosphere, attributed them principally to the burning of fossil fuels, and warned that these levels could increase further by 25% by 2000, leading to a 0.6oC to 4oC rise in average global temperature, depending on the role of other factors. Global average temperature was already about half a degree warmer than at the end of the 19th century and the evidence was clear that mining vast quantities of fossil fuels from the earth and burning them in engines was responsible. By the 1970s, human-induced climate change was a widespread area of concern among weather and climate scientists. In 1979, a report of the National Research Council, commissioned by President Jimmy Carter and chaired by Jule Charney from the University of California, Los Angeles, noted that a doubling of atmospheric CO2 over pre-industrial levels could lead to global warming of about 3oC. A year earlier, the U.S. Congress passed the National Climate Program Act “to enable the United States and other nations to understand and respond to natural and man-induced climate processes and their implications”. Funding for the programme was ambitious, amounting to over $120 million for the first two years. Corporate lobbies The increased scientific and Congressional interest in addressing climate change was matched by mounting alarm within the fossil fuel industry. Recently exposed documents and internal memos show that major oil companies like Exxon and Shell organised themselves strategically to raise a concerted attack on climate science. The 1970s was characterised by the energy crisis, associated with the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries oil embargo, but the roles played by American banks, oil companies and dollar hegemony in precipitating the crisis are only now being unravelled. That crisis resulted in “petro-dollars” consolidating the strength of the fossil fuel industry and financial institutions for at least the next two decades. Much of this clout was used to build a mammoth campaign against environmental action, particularly around climate change. On June 24, 1988, headlines on The New York Times front page read, “Global Warming Has Begun, Expert Tells Senate.” In his testimony, the Director of NASA’s Institute for Space Studies, James Hansen, said humans had transformed global climate for decades to come. The same year, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) was established by the United Nations to provide the public scientific information on climate change. The UN Framework Convention on Climate Change to address climate change was signed at the Rio Earth Summit in 1992. The Second Assessment Report of the IPCC (1995) reaffirmed a “discernible human influence on global climate”. Frederick Seitz, past President of the National Academy of Sciences, denounced the report publicly. Seitz was the founding chair of the George C. Marshall Institute, a tobacco industry consultant, and also a prominent “sceptic” on global warming. Other conservative organisations were simultaneously working to muddy the facts, pointing at red herrings in the science. All had direct or indirect links to the fossil fuel industry. Under intense lobbying by the industry-sponsored Global Climate Information Project, which recruited labour unions of miners and automobile workers, the U.S. Senate passed the Byrd-Hagel Resolution unanimously in July 1997. The Senate resolved that the U.S. should not sign a climate treaty to limit its emissions without developing countries agreeing to the same limits. This effectively prohibited the U.S. from ratifying the Kyoto Protocol, which placed limits on the growth of emissions from rich countries. Various policies In the subsequent two decades, the Koch Family Foundation alone spent $125 million to finance nearly 100 groups that attacked climate science and policies. Still, the momentum generated by the growing movement of scientists, activists and youth is beginning to have some effects. The urgency is compelling. Keeling curve emissions are more than 410 ppm in 2020, compared to 313 ppm when measurements began in 1958. The Green New Deal offers a framework that needs further strengthening. If John Kerry, Special Envoy for Climate, integrates U.S. foreign aid or other means of support with climate targets by other countries, including China and India, then the U.S. is merely going back to business as usual. While the U.S.’s re-entry into the Paris Agreement may be by the stroke of a pen, regaining political legitimacy on climate requires the government to take responsibility in causing and aggravating the global climate crisis; commit to technology and funds for poorer countries; take on bigger emission targets; not bend over for the fossil fuel lobby which funds Democrats and Republicans; clean up the role of lobbyists in climate regulatory and policy organisations within the U.S.; and recognise and break up elite networks that have benefited by sustaining climate myths. Sujatha Byravan is a scientist who studies science, technology and development and Sudhir Chella Rajan is author of ‘A Social Theory of Corruption’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/can-the-biden-harris-team-save-the-planet/article33663317.ece
26 January 2021||January 26 2021 00:00 IST,||The time for not mass but targeted vaccination||While the COVID-19 pandemic rages on in the United States and the United Kingdom, the scene is very different in India with the peak having passed in mid-September 2020, and there now being a current sustained down-trend. In the last four weeks (December 24-January 21), the reported average daily infections were 22,263; 15,805; 15,541 and 13,956. The epidemic phase is coming to an end, and the endemic phase, imminent. The dynamics A person-to-person transmitted infection is endemic, when, on the average, each infection reproduces another, for ‘reproduction number’ R = 1. When R = > 1, daily infections increase, signalling rapid spread — the ascending limb of an epidemic curve. Post-peak, the curve declines, with R = <1. Finally, when R settles down to ~1, infection is endemic — daily number of new infections remains stable with minor fluctuations. The transmission dynamics of ‘endemicity’ is interesting. During this steady state, the population is a pool of individuals wherein one infected person infects only one other person, the number of daily infections remaining constant. By our estimates of the daily new births in India, by age six, around 54,000 survive over time. Therefore, we add 54,000 susceptible subjects daily to the pool, disturbing this equilibrium. If, in spite of this addition, daily infections remain constant, it implies that new infections equal the susceptible subjects entering the pool. In India, during the COVID-19 endemic phase, average daily infections will be ~54,000 with minor fluctuations. Only a fraction of total infections is detected by current testing strategy. To get the true numbers, we need to use arithmetic and the principle of triangulation. The reported numbers can be used to compute the true number. During January 15-21, the reported daily number averaged 13,956. The currently popular rapid antigen test detects only 50% of infections; so, the actual number of new infections is double that number, about 28,000. Nowadays, we mostly test symptomatic individuals, who account for only about half of total infections. Hence, the daily new infections may be 56,000, only 2,000 more than 54,000 — India is very close to reaching endemic state. Can we corroborate this with the most unequivocal numbers that we have, namely mortality statistics? The average daily COVID-19 deaths were 163 last week. As mortality certification is only 20% in India, the estimated number of daily COVID-19 deaths (highest estimate) may be five-fold — 815. Our COVID-19 case-fatality is 1%, occurring approximately four weeks from the initial symptoms. Therefore, the number of infections four weeks ago (third week of December) was about 81,500. The epidemic, as per the mortality graph, is waning with a halving time of four weeks. By the third week of January, the daily infections would have declined from 81,500 to 40,750. In short, by the third week of January 2021, India could have already entered endemic phase. The shape of the epidemic curve in India, a large monophasic wave, negates urban-rural delay in the spread of the novel coronavirus infection; presumably because of the ‘leaky lock-down’ — even the first sero-survey showed considerable rural spread. Therefore, another wave is unlikely. When the epidemic enters the endemic phase, herd immunity threshold (for COVID-19 ~60% of population infected) is reached. Now is a critical moment in COVID-19 epidemiology — to design appropriate vaccination strategy for the current endemic phase. Action after a missed chance In Europe, the U.S. and Brazil, where there is on-going rapid epidemic spread, the appropriate strategic objective is mass vaccination to curtail spread. This window of opportunity to curtail the epidemic was missed in India — the emergency-use authorisation of vaccines was too late. In the endemic phase, which India seems to be entering, the strategy should be carefully crafted to eliminate COVID-19 deaths and to eradicate the viral infection altogether from the country. Now is the time for targeted, instead of mass vaccination. Vaccinating health-care staff is a humanitarian and public health imperative; we need a well-protected workforce to deliver care confidently to vulnerable patients without unwittingly transmitting the virus. The public health system need not be taxed — when the vaccine is supplied to health-care institutions, staff manage the rest. Young people have gradually resumed normal day-to-day activities, transport services restored, educational institutions opening up, and movie theatres permitted to operate. The 60% of the population which got infected for reaching herd immunity threshold are predominantly healthy youngsters. The elderly and the vulnerable with comorbidity who remained cocooned are at risk of infection, severe disease and mortality. What the priority should be India’s first priority should be targeted vaccination to prevent deaths. Citizens above 55 years and those below 55 with diabetes, hypertension, obesity, chronic lung, heart and kidney diseases should be vaccinated first — through local governments (corporations, municipalities and panchayats), utilising already available data in the Aadhaar database. Enumeration, registration and vaccination by appointments need not be delayed any further. As schools reopen, children could acquire infection at school and transmit it to parents and grandparents. Priority vaccination of teachers and ancillary staff would be an essential strategy, along with all protective measures — masks, physical distancing, hand hygiene — until vaccination is approved in children. An opportune priority is to design an innovative approach for the elimination of the coronavirus infection from the country, in our self-interest and to encourage the resolve for global eradication. Now is the time to lay its foundation; delays may render the disease non-eradicable for two biological reasons. Mutations, animal reservoirs The virus is mutating and new ‘variants’ are emerging. If new ‘strains’ emerge, the present vaccines may not be protective and new vaccines may have to be designed. Eradication must pre-empt such eventuality. Second, now the virus transmission is only human to human, there is no animal reservoir. Animals of the feline (cat, tiger, lion, leopard) and canine (dogs, raccoons) families are vulnerable to human-animal transmission, but not vice-versa. Mustelidae (mink, weasels, ferrets and badgers) and Cervidae (farmed deer) are vulnerable and can transmit the virus to humans. They may form animal reservoirs, rendering eradication impossible. Before these risks become real, COVID-19 must be eradicated. Dr. M.S. Seshadri is Medical Director and consultant Physician, Thirumalai Mission Hospital, Ranipet, Vellore, Tamil Nadu. Dr. T. Jacob John is former Professor of Clinical Virology, CMC Hospital Vellore||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-time-for-not-mass-but-targeted-vaccination/article33663308.ece
26 January 2021||January 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Budgeting in a time of crisis||The Great Depression wrecked the economies of the U.S. and Europe. In the words of Jonathan Alter, when Franklin Roosevelt became the American President in 1933, he was told: “Mr. President, if your programme succeeds you would be the greatest President in American history. If it fails, you will be the worst one”. Roosevelt replied: “If it fails, I will be the last one”. Today the U.S. is facing its worst economic crisis since the Great Depression. Like Roosevelt, President Joe Biden is launching the American Rescue Plan to revive the economy. His $1.9 trillion plan proposes $1,400 per-person payments, increased unemployment benefits, assistance to local governments, support for accelerated vaccine rollout, investments to get children back in school, and a minimum wage of $15 an hour. In India, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman will present the Union Budget on February 1, 2021. The pandemic has severely affected growth. The government was quick to announce a package of Rs. 20 lakh crore. Fiscal deficit could overshoot the target set by the Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management Act. Spending more is going to be difficult. According to the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy, unemployment, both rural and urban, is surging, and health and infrastructure budgets are getting stretched. How much can the government afford to spend and in what direction? Can Keynesian economics offer guidelines? The Paul Krugman principles Noble Laureate Paul Krugman has offered advice against too much of caution in dealing with the economic mess. He has laid down the rules for budget-making. The first rule is to not doubt the power of the government to help. Government spending can be hugely beneficial. The Affordable Care Act, for instance, led to a decline in the number of Americans without health insurance, and gave people a sense of security. The second is to not be obsessed with debt. Economists agree that debt is far less a problem than conventional wisdom asserts. Interest rates are low by historical standards. The burden of servicing debt is low. The third rule is to not worry about inflation. We can run a ‘hot economy’ with low unemployment and large budget deficits, without runaway inflation. The fourth is to not count on bipartisan support. The Indian context India’s GDP is estimated at Rs. 200 lakh crore. The first priority for spending should be health and infrastructure. India has only five beds for 10,000 Indians and ranks 155th on bed availability in the Human Development Report of 2020. Experts opine that the government should increase healthcare spending from 1.5% of the GDP to 2.5%. The National Infrastructure Pipeline aims to invest Rs. 111 lakh crore by 2025 in over 6,800 projects. The proposal to set up a Development Finance Institution is still on the anvil. The Chinese government has entered into building social housing projects. As pointed out by the economists in India Today , expenditure on infrastructure can have a large multiplier effect on economic output. Suggestions have been made for the introduction of an urban employment guarantee scheme on the lines of the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme. This will be far better than direct cash transfers. The stumbling block to budgetary efforts to spend can be the resource crunch. Despite historic lows in fuel prices, the government chose to increase fuel prices to record levels. The Goods and Services Tax has been a big source of revenue. There is a strong case for reducing GST tariff. Cess or surcharge can be levied on the super-rich. Disinvestment must go on at high speed. The average tariff must come down to 10% from its current level of 14% by 2024, as suggested by Professor Arvind Panagariya. He wrote: “With several key reforms – new labour codes, new farm laws, Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, low corporate profit tax, single nationwide GST and widespread digitisation – already in place, the addition of privatisation and trade liberalisation would nearly guarantee a double digit growth and millions of additional well-paid jobs for the masses in the post-Covid-19 decades.” Ms. Sitharaman has left significant imprints in the Budgets she has presented. The lowering of corporate tax rates, the introduction of the option to choose the tax rate both for companies and for individuals up to fixed monetary limits, the introduction of the Vivad se Vishwas scheme without sacrificing revenue, and the structured infusion of fiscal stimulus without accelerating inflation all point to a right approach to Budget-making. We can expect a never-before Budget to be presented to meet the crisis created by COVID-19. The super-rich must co-operate without insisting on tax concessions. T.C.A. Ramanujam is a former Chief Commissioner, Income Tax; T.C.A. Sangeetha is an Advocate, Madras High Court||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/budgeting-in-a-time-of-crisis/article33663313.ece
26 January 2021||January 26 2021 00:00 IST,||How China might tackle the Biden presidency||With a new administration taking over in the U.S., how can we expect China to deal with the legacy of hardline China policies left behind by former President Donald Trump? One, Beijing may try deflection. It may talk about being misunderstood and of overriding “common interests”, as Foreign Minister Wang Yi did in December, or spout vague inanities such as “cooperative competition”, as former Chinese diplomat Fu Ying did in November 2020 in The New York Times . Two, since the paramount concerns for American leaders have usually been economic ones – jobs, exports and competitiveness, among other things – there could be a degree of appeasement in the form of limited or selective access for American agricultural produce and private enterprises. Three, since climate change is a priority for the Democrats – as the appointment of John Kerry as Special Presidential Envoy For Climate suggests – there will be plenty of Chinese ‘concessions’ on this front too. But these will inevitably be linked to American concessions on other fronts potentially driving a wedge between the principal actors in the U.S. national security establishment on China policy. Four, ideological competition is now a feature of Chinese foreign policy and it will be impossible for the Communist Party to not also attack the U.S. directly for faults both real and imagined. On the eve of the Biden inauguration, the Chinese Foreign Ministry repeated the allegation that the U.S. was the source of the novel coronavirus. The announcement of sanctions against senior Trump administration officials later was another sign of an increasingly no-holds-barred approach to the U.S. Five, and related, we can expect China to continue to highlight and exaggerate domestic dynamics in the U.S. as a way of explaining away U.S.-China tensions as well as other American problems around the world. The attempt is to showcase China’s own political system in a positive light while criticising American-style democracy as somehow flawed or in decline. As Yuan Peng, head of the China Institutes of Contemporary International Relations, declared, “The United States is sick, China has stabilized, and the world has changed”. Six, as China has increasingly done in recent years – from New Zealand to Nepal – it will more confidently interfere in U.S. domestic politics. Last year, U.S. officials claimed that China had attempted to interfere in elections. Seven, China will sustain pressure against American allies and partners everywhere – note, for instance, Beijing’s provocations against Japan in the East China Sea and economic coercion against Australia. Elsewhere, China’s conclusion of a bilateral investment treaty with the European Union on the eve of the Biden presidency is a classic divide-and-rule tactic against the West. Beijing has been helped along by the unilateralism and walking out of multilateral regimes of the Trump administration, all of which President Joe Biden will be hard pressed to repair. Finally, China will continue to suborn foreign private enterprises to do its will. The inability of American and other foreign enterprises to acknowledge, let alone take a stand against, the oppression of China’s Uyghur minority should be a concern for the Biden administration as too the reality that most Western and Japanese enterprises remain reluctant to leave China despite their governments asking them to. Under Mr. Biden, American pressure on China’s domestic political and economic system and on its external policies is not going to be particularly unexpected for the Chinese leadership. But he will also face a China that believes increasingly in taking the fight to the opposition. Jabin T. Jacob is Associate Professor, Department of International Relations and Governance Studies, Shiv Nadar University, Uttar Pradesh. He tweets @jabinjacobt||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/how-china-might-tackle-the-biden-presidency/article33663314.ece
26 January 2021||January 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Overzealous threat||The warning by the Bihar police of legal action being taken against users of social media for “offensive” posts targeting the government, its Ministers and officials, betrays both hypersensitivity and ignorance of the law. It represents an unacceptable combination of low tolerance for criticism and a zeal to cow down the public. The Economic Offences Wing, which also deals with cyber-crime, has sent a circular to the department secretaries that they could inform the wing about such “offensive posts” so that it could act against them, terming such actions as “against prescribed law”. Presumably, the action contemplated is for an alleged cyber-crime. Even though the letter from the Inspector General of Police concerned makes no mention of any specific penal provision, it is a possible reference to Section 66A of the IT Act, as there is no other section that deals with “offensive” remarks. Section 66A, which dealt with “Punishment for sending offensive messages through communication service, etc.” was struck down by the Supreme Court in 2015, as being too broadly defined. The Act’s remaining penal provisions pertain only to other offences — sending obscene or prurient messages, hacking, stealing computer resources, identity theft, personation, and violation of privacy. There is nothing specific in the law that would render strong, even offensive and intemperate, criticism of the government a cyber-offence. The tenor of the warning suggests that the cyber-crime wing may initiate proceedings against those who post offensive messages. However, it ought to be remembered that the police cannot register FIRs for defamation, as the offence can only be dealt with by way of criminal complaints before magistrates, and cannot be the subject of a police investigation. The government, indeed, has the power to institute criminal defamation cases through public prosecutors, if the alleged defamation is in respect of the official duties of public servants, but such measures do not exactly shore up a regime’s popularity. In response to criticism, the State government has clarified that the proposed action would only be against rumour-mongering and insulting language. RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav has reacted by daring the government to jail him for exposing its wrongdoing. CM Nitish Kumar has not helped his cause by claiming that the government’s good work is not reaching the people because of criticism on social media. There is much on social media that can be seen as crimes (hate speech, inflammatory and insulting remarks or defamation), but it ill-behoves an elected government to take note of these, unless the offenders are influential enough to cause major social divisions and foment violence. The government would do well not to act on the police circular, lest it be seen as an attempt to suppress its critics and those who make allegations of corruption.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/overzealous-threat/article33663298.ece
26 January 2021||January 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Split in the middle||The political crisis triggered by Prime Minister K.P. Sharma Oli’s decision to dissolve Nepal’s Parliament and call fresh elections led to a vertical split in the ruling party, with the rival faction led by Pushpa Kamal Dahal ‘Prachanda’ sacking Mr. Oli from its general membership. The Prachanda faction of the Nepal Communist Party had removed Mr. Oli as the party’s chairman earlier. It had issued a notice to him seeking an explanation for his decision to recommend Parliament’s dissolution, to which he did not respond. Following this, the central committee of the Prachanda bloc met on Sunday and decided to expel Mr. Oli. His aides have rejected this, saying their leader remains the PM. This puts Nepal and its fractious communist movement in limbo. Mr. Oli has claimed that he represents the party, while Mr. Prachanda and Madhav Kumar Nepal, a former PM and leader of Mr. Oli’s erstwhile Communist Party of Nepal (UML), have ruled out any future compromise with the PM. The constitutional validity of the decision to dissolve Parliament is being reviewed by the Supreme Court. Also, the Election Commission will decide which faction could retain the party’s name and symbol, the Sun. These decisions will have a lasting impact on which side would emerge stronger. Mr. Oli was elected PM in February 2018 after his CPN-UML fought the 2017 general election in an alliance with the Maoists. Within months of coming to power, the CPN-UML and the Maoist Centre of Prachanda merged to form the Nepal Communist Party (NCP), which gave him nearly two-thirds majority in Parliament. But the pre-election unity did not last long. When the government was formed, the tacit understanding between the CPN-UML and the Maoists was that Mr. Oli and Mr. Prachanda would share the five-year term. But Mr. Oli refused to step down after two and a half years, pushing the NCP into a bitter intra-party feud. The widening rift was not along the former UML-Maoist ideological lines. Rather, Mr. Oli’s authoritarian style of governance and refusal to share power led to an erosion of support for the PM in the top echelons of the ruling party. To overcome his own weakness within the party and deny his rivals power, he dissolved Parliament. It is a typical case of greed for power and personality clashes trumping over the greater interests of a party, a government or a nation. When they formed a united front, it was a historic opportunity for Nepal’s otherwise divided communists to script a brighter future for the fledgling republican democracy. But in three years, Nepal is in chaos — Parliament has been dissolved, the PM has been sacked from the ruling party, and the party is split down the middle. Mr. Oli cannot escape responsibility for the crisis Nepal is in today.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/split-in-the-middle/article33663300.ece
26 January 2021||January 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Famine in China||The Lieutenant Governor has received the following telegram from the British Home Relief Committee, Peking: - “Appalling famine in China. Millions facing death and starvation. Available funds are totally inadequate. Position now desperate. Money urgently needed. One pound saves a life. Expenditure is under closest supervision. Kindly use best endeavours... Burma to contribute liberally to the fund opened by the Viceroy.” The message is published with the hope that the appeal will meet with immediate and generous response. The Lieutenant Governor’s Private-Secretary will receive donations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/famine-in-china/article33663309.ece
26 January 2021||January 26 2021 00:00 IST,||DMK manifesto (From an editorial)||The Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam election manifesto issued in Madras on Sunday [January 24] shows that the party continues to treat the regional language as its trump card with the electorate. It declares that whatever be the opposition there will be no change in the two-language policy and no place whatsoever for Hindi. There are, of course, few advocates of Hindi in Tamil Nadu but it still remains true that it would be useful to know that language if one has to go beyond the confines of the State or seek employment in the Central Services. But the burning issue to-day does not concern Hindi; it is all about the study of English in higher educational institutions. If past experience is any guide, it seems that the D.M.K. is not very anxious to promote the study of English even where it is an indispensable tool of learning. The manifesto also reveals that the D.M.K. retains its provincial outlook in regard to economic planning. The Indian peninsula with its vast population forms a ready-made common market where free movement of capital, labour and goods could bring dividends to all corners of the country. Resources being limited, there is need for careful planning and location of major projects. This does not suit the book of the D.M.K. which has mounted an attack on the Planning Commission and demanded greater provincial autonomy. It seems to believe that the Centre should be left only with the responsibility for defence and foreign affairs and that the States should do the rest. In fact, the historical tendency in other federal systems has been just the reverse.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/dmk-manifesto-from-an-editorial/article33663310.ece
26 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Green’ tax mooted for personal vehicles older than 15 years||Owners of old vehicles will have to pay the government a ‘green’ tax as a penalty for polluting the environment, which will be much steeper if you reside in one of the more polluted cities in India. The Union Minister for Road Transport and Highways Nitin Gadkari has approved a proposal to levy a ‘green tax’ on old vehicles.   Personal vehicles will be charged a tax at the time of renewal of Registration Certification after 15 years. The levy may differ depending on fuel (petrol/diesel) and type of vehicle. The proposal will now go to the States for consultation before it is formally notified. It includes 10-25% of road tax on transport vehicles older than eight years at the time of renewal of fitness certificate. The proposal on green tax also includes steeper penalty of up to 50% of road tax for older vehicles registered in some of the highly polluted cities in the country. The Minister also approved a watered-down policy of deregistration and scrapping of vehicles, bringing only those vehicles owned by government departments and PSUs and are older than 15 years under its ambit. ‘Effective April 1’ The policy will come into effect from April 1, 2022. In 2016, the Centre had floated a draft Voluntary Vehicle Fleet Modernisation Programme that aimed to take 28 million decade-old vehicles off the road. A panel of secretaries suggested the scheme may combine a phased regulatory approach for capping the life of vehicles along with stricter emission norms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/green-tax-mooted-for-personal-vehicles-older-than-15-years/article33663280.ece
26 January 2021||MUMBAI,||Tech lifts L&T net to Rs. 2,467 cr.||L&T reported a 5% rise in consolidated net profit for the third quarter ended December 31 to Rs. 2,467 crore on account of higher profit from the information technology and technology services (IT & TS) segment and sale of commercial property by its realty division. The PAT also included gains on divestment of Rs. 209 crore from discontinued operations. “The gain of divestment is towards further adjustments accrued against the sale of the electrical and automation business to Schneider Electric SE in the previous quarter and sale of the U.K.-based marine control and automation systems subsidiary to Rolls-Royce Power Systems AG,” L&T said. Gross revenue dropped 2% to Rs. 35,596 crore. “It was a quarter of turnaround for the whole industry,” said R. Shankar Raman, whole time director and CFO. Significant orders “It is a blockbuster quarter for the company in terms of order book. We have significant order inflow this quarter,” he added. However, he said COVID-19-related restrictions continued to have an impact on project-site execution. The consolidated order book of the group stood at a record Rs. 3,31,061 crore at December 31, registering a growth of 9% over the March 2020 level. “We are hopeful of maintaining the momentum and are expecting a good Q4. Now, it is a problem of plenty,” said S.N. Subrahmanyan, CEO & MD, L&T. Stating that the price rise in cement and steel was alarming, he said, “The price rise is not warranted and not justified in the current economic scenario. Hope rationality prevails,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/tech-lifts-lt-net-to-rs-2467-cr/article33663277.ece
26 January 2021||New Delhi,||Govt. may tweak customs duty on a host of goods in Budget||The government may tweak customs duty in the Budget next week on several goods, including furniture raw materials, copper scrap, certain chemicals, telecom equipment and rubber products, to promote domestic manufacturing and exports, sources said. The sources said that while import duty could be tweaked on more than 20 products such as cut and polished diamonds, rubber goods, leather garments, telecom equipment and carpet, customs duty could be removed on select raw materials like wood in rough, swan wood and hard board used for furniture manufacturing and copper concentrate. “Expensive raw materials impact India’s price competitiveness in the international market. The country’s exports of furniture is very low [about 1%], while countries like China and Vietnam are major players in the sector,” they added. Finished goods The government may also consider reducing customs duties on coal tar pitch, and copper scrap, while raising the levies on certain finished goods like refrigerator, washing machine and clothes dryer, one of the sources said. The government is already taking steps to boost domestic manufacturing such as introduction of production-linked incentives scheme (PLI) for several sectors including air conditioners and LED lights. “Tweaking of duties on these goods would help promote self-reliant India campaign and boost domestic manufacturing,” they added. Last year, the government increased import taxes on several products such as furniture, toys, and footwear.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/govt-may-tweak-customs-duty-on-a-host-of-goods-in-budget/article33663286.ece
26 January 2021||HYDERABAD,||IRDAI mandates standard annuity plan||Insurance regulator IRDAI has directed all life insurers to mandatorily offer from April 1 a standard, individual immediate annuity product it has developed. The single premium, non-linked, non-participating plan, to be called Saral Pension with the insurer’s name prefixed, will have simple features and standard terms and conditions.  Reducing mis-selling The product would make it easier for customers to make an informed choice, enhance trust between the insurers and the insured and reduce mis-selling as well as potential disputes, the regulator said while issuing guidelines for the product. The minimum annuity is Rs. 1,000 per month and in multiples thereof for quarterly, half yearly and annual payouts. The minimum and maximum purchase price will depend on the annuity amount. The plan is targeted at those aged between 40 and 80 years. There is no maturity benefit under the policy. Noting that several individual immediate annuity products are marketed by life insurers, with each product having its own features, terms and conditions and annuity options, IRDAI said a standard product will broadly meet the needs of an average customer. While leaving the pricing to the insurers, the regulator stipulated two annuity options that can be offered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/irdai-mandates-standard-annuity-plan/article33663275.ece
26 January 2021||MUMBAI,||‘RBI proposals for NBFCs don’t address key issues’||The Reserve Bank of India’s (RBI) recent discussion paper proposing tighter regulations for non-bank finance companies (NBFCs), if implemented, would result in the companies becoming more resilient to credit shocks. However, the proposals do not address NBFCs’ funding and liquidity, the key credit weakness of the sector, Moody’s Investors Service said in a report. It said the proposal would commit the largest 25-30 NBFCs to regulations similar to banks in terms of capital, credit concentration and governance. “The proposed new regulations would result in largely harmonised rules between banks and NBFCs on capital and leverage, which would reduce the regulatory arbitrage opportunities for NBFCs against the banks in their lending decisions,” Moody’s said. “However, no changes are proposed to the NBFCs’ current lighter liquidity rules,” it added. Stating that banks are subject to strict regulations on maintaining a minimum cash reserve ratio and statutory liquidity reserve, the Moody’s Investors Service report said that these conditions had not been imposed on NBFCs.   No changes are proposed to the NBFCs’ current lighter liquidity rules, Moody’s said||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/rbi-proposals-for-nbfcs-dont-address-key-issues/article33663278.ece
26 January 2021||New delhi,||Amazon moves Delhi HC; seeks arrest of Biyani||U.S. online retailer Amazon has filed a petition in the Delhi High Court seeking detention of Future Group founders, including CEO Kishore Biyani, and seizure of their assets as it sought to block Future Group from selling retail assets to Reliance Industries. In the petition, Amazon sought enforcement of the Singapore arbitrator’s ruling in October against its partner Future’s Rs. 24,713-crore deal with Reliance. Amazon sought the Biyani family to be directed to ‘disclose their assets, including movable and immovable property’ and the same be attached. Also, it sought ‘detention’ of Mr. Biyani, his daughter Ashni and seven other members of the founder family as well as three other officials, including a company secretary of the Group. Amazon, which wants the deal to sell retail assets to Reliance to be stopped, also asked the court for a direction for “detention of the directors (of Future Group entities) in civil prison.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/amazon-moves-delhi-hc-seeks-arrest-of-biyani/article33663290.ece
26 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘GST dues paid to States total Rs. 78,000 crore’||The Centre on Monday released Rs. 6,000 crore to States as compensation for implementing the Goods and Services Tax, after raising the funds through a special borrowing window to meet the compensation shortfall. The Finance Ministry said that Rs. 78,000 crore out of the Rs. 1.1 lakh crore of GST compensation, to be raised through borrowings for this year, has now been disbursed to 23 States and the three Union Territories with legislative assemblies — Delhi, Puducherry and Jammu & Kashmir. “The amount released this week was the 13th instalment... borrowed at an interest rate of 5.3083%,” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/gst-dues-paid-to-states-total-rs-78000-crore/article33663281.ece
26 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||CII calls for broadband infra fund||The Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) on Monday pitched for a ‘Broadband Infrastructure Fund’ with a token allocation of Rs. 5,000 crore by the government in the upcoming Budget. “[The] CII has suggested that the government make a token budgetary allocation of Rs. 5,000 crore in the upcoming Budget 2021-22 towards building the Broadband Infrastructure Fund,” the industry body said, adding that rapid acceleration in the creation of digital infrastructure would be an effective tool for inclusive digitalisation that would help boost economic growth and employment.   Rapid creation of digital infrastructure can boost economic growth, jobs||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/cii-calls-for-broadband-infra-fund/article33663282.ece
26 January 2021||Chennai,||Kia mulls third shift as car demand rises||Carmaker Kia Motors India, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Kia Motors Corporation, is planning to start a third shift at its Anantapur plant in Andhra Pradesh following an improvement in domestic demand for its products. Currently, Kia’s manufacturing plant is operating two shifts and the firm is evaluating adding one more shift to meet the increasing demand. Kia also aims to fully utilise its capacity of 3 lakh units per annum by 2022. With 300 touchpoints across India, the firm plans to expand its network further in tier 3 and 4 markets, the Indian unit of the South Korean carmaker said in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/kia-mulls-third-shift-as-car-demand-rises/article33663283.ece
26 January 2021||Chennai,||Sundaram Home Finance net surges 36%||Sundaram Home Finance Ltd., the wholly owned subsidiary of Sundaram Finance Ltd., reported third quarter net profit grew 36% to Rs. 56.24 crore. Disbursements during the quarter stood at Rs. 416.57 crore compared to Rs. 536.33 crore in the year-earlier period. The deposit base stood at Rs. 1,825 crore, the company said in a statement. “There is a shortage of houses and the pent-up demand is huge,” said Lakshminarayanan Duraiswamy, MD, Sundaram Home Finance. “Our outlook is positive. Our focus will continue to be on the southern market as that offers huge opportunities,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/sundaram-home-finance-net-surges-36/article33663284.ece
26 January 2021||New Delhi,||UCO Bank logs net profit at Rs 35 cr in Dec qtr||State-owned UCO Bank reported a net profit of Rs. 35.4 crore in the third quarter ended December of the current fiscal due to a substantial fall in bad loans leading to lower provisions. It had posted a net loss of Rs. 960.2 crore in the same quarter of the previous fiscal year. Sequentially, there was a net profit of Rs. 30.1 crore in the second quarter ended September 2020.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/uco-bank-logs-net-profit-at-rs-35-cr-in-dec-qtr/article33663293.ece
26 January 2021||New Delhi,||GoM defers BSNL-MTNL merger; approves BSNL land sale to CBSE for Rs 64 cr||A Group of Ministers (GoM), chaired by Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, is learnt to have deferred the merger of public sector telecom firms BSNL and MTNL due to financial reasons, according to government sources. The GoM has also approved the sale of 6,000 sq. m. of BSNL land in Noida to the Central Board of Secondary Education at the rate of more than Rs. 1 lakh per sq. m.pti||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/gom-defers-bsnl-mtnl-merger-approves-bsnl-land-sale-to-cbse-for-rs-64-cr/article33663822.ece
26 January 2021||New Delhi,||Kotak Mahindra Bank Q3 profit rises 16 pc to Rs 1,854 cr||Kotak Mahindra Bank on Monday reported a 16% increase in standalone net profit to Rs. 1,854 crore for the third quarter ended December, as the bad loan situation improved. Total income rose to Rs. 8,124.9 crore during the quarter under review from Rs. 8,077 crore in the year-earlier period, Kotak Mahindra Bank said.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/kotak-mahindra-bank-q3-profit-rises-16-pc-to-rs-1854-cr/article33663292.ece
26 January 2021||New Delhi,||Lupin gets USFDA nod to market generic Sevelamer Carbonate tablets||Drug firm Lupin on Monday said it has received nod from the U.S. health regulator to market its generic Sevelamer Carbonate tablets that are used to control phosphorus in people with chronic kidney disease on dialysis. The company has received approval to market its Sevelamer Carbonate tablets in the strength of 800 mg, Lupin said in a statement.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/lupin-gets-usfda-nod-to-market-generic-sevelamer-carbonate-tablets/article33663294.ece
26 January 2021||Mumbai,||RBI says it is open to exploring possibility of digital version of fiat currency||Amid increasing popularity of virtual currencies in various parts of the world, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Monday said it was open to exploring the possibility of a digital version of fiat currency.  "The RBI is exploring the possibility as to whether there is a need for a digital version of fiat currency and in case there is, then how to operationalise it," the RBI said in a booklet.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/rbi-says-it-is-open-to-exploring-possibility-of-digital-version-of-fiat-currency/article33663295.ece
26 January 2021||BHOPAL,||Yashvir betters Neeraj’s mark||Indian athletics got back on track in style with three new meet records on the opening day of the 18th National Federation Cup Junior (u-20) Championships here on Monday. The first national-level competition in track and field since the COVID-19 forced lockdown in March last, the three-day event got the best possible start with Haryana’s Yashvir Singh bettering Neeraj Chopra’s six-year old javelin mark. The 19-year-old Yashvir had a best attempt of 78.68m to go past Neeraj’s 76.91m effort at the 2015 edition in Hyderabad. All five of his valid throws went past 75m. Also registering new meet records were Sunil Dawar of Madhya Pradesh in 1,500m and Ankita of Uttarakhand in 5,000m. Ankita’s double The 18-year-old Ankita completed the 5,000m race in 16:37.90 to retain the title she won in 2019, but this time by lowering Suman Rani’s 2018 record of 17:02.67. She completed a personal double by adding the 1,500m gold in 4:27.54. Dawar, meanwhile, won the 1,500m in 3:48.54, improving on the old meet record of 3:51.16 by Shashi Bhushan Singh in 2015. The Khelo India University Games in February last was the last competitive track and field outing in the country.  The results:   Men, 100m: 1. Saurabh Rajesh Naitam (Mah, 10.51s), 2. Abhin B. Devadiga (Kar, 10.54), 3. Aaditya Tomar (UP, 10.89); 1,500m: 1. Sunil Dawar (MP, 3:48.54), 2. Sree Kiran (TN, 3:55.17), 3. Mohammed Nur Hasan (UP, 3:55.21); 10,000m: 1. M Sathish Kumar (TN, 30:17.47), 2. Sushant Manohar Jedhe (Mah, 31:22.14), 3. Amaresh Kumar Prajapat (Del, 31:23.96); Javelin: 1. Yashvir Singh (Har, 78.68m), 2. Jay Kumar (UP, 72.29), 3. Kunwar Ajai Raj Singh Rai (Pun, 66.38).   Women, 100m: 1. Taranjeet Kaur (Del, 11.70s), 2. Anjali P.D. Dileesh (Ker, 11.88), 3. Sudeshna Hanmant Shiva (Mah, 11.91); 1,500m: 1. Ankita (Utk, 4:27.54), 2. Pooja (Har, 4:28.61), 3. Megha (Har, 4:44.75); 5,000m: 1. Ankita (Utk, 16:37.90), 2. Chatru Gumnaram (Raj, 17:06.03), 3. Supriti Kachhap (Jha, 17:08.30).   High Jump: 1. Tanu (Har, 1.66m), 2. Kevinaa Ashwine Annavi (TN, 1.63), 3. Sphurti Subhash Mane (Mah, 1.60); Shot Put: 1. Rekha (Har, 14.14m), 2. Kavita Kumari (Raj, 13.23), 3. Simranjeet Kaur (Del, 12.53) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/yashvir-betters-neerajs-mark/article33663430.ece
26 January 2021||GALLE,||Sibley, Buttler and spinners help England sweep series||Dom Sibley and Jos Buttler anchored a run chase after a jittery start as England defeated Sri Lanka by six wickets in the second Test to sweep the series 2-0 here on Monday Sibley and Buttler added an unbeaten 75 as Root’s men, who were struggling at 89 for four, got to their target of 164 in an extended final session on the fourth day. The result gave England a second successive Test whitewash in Sri Lanka after winning all three matches in 2018 too. Deadly combo England was given a deadline to finish in the day after spinners Jack Leach and Dom Bess took four wickets each to skittle out Sri Lanka for 126 in its second innings. Left-arm spinner Lasith Embuldeniya claimed three wickets that gave Sri Lanka hope and helped him to his Test-best match figures of 10 for 200. Debutant spinner Ramesh Mendis got the key wicket of skipper Joe Root, who scored 11 after his 186 in England’s first innings total of 344, to add to the scare given to the tourists. Embuldeniya took Zak Crawley for 13 and then ended Jonny Bairstow’s stay after a quickfire 29, putting England’s nerves on edge, but Sibley calmly moved to his third Test half-century. Sri Lanka started its second innings early in the day with a lead of 37 but it all came to an end in the afternoon session. No. 10 Embuldeniya top-scored with 40. He was the only batsman to score more than 20 as Sri Lanka collapsed from 29 for one in its second innings. Embuldeniya put up some resistance with a ninth-wicket stand of 48 with Suranga Lakmal, who made 11 not out, before Root took the final two wickets with his off-spin. Leach’s left-arm spin got Kusal Perera trapped leg before for 14, and off-spinner Bess sent back Oshada Fernando for three in the first session. Mathews falls cheaply First-innings centurion Angelo Mathews was then bowled by Bess for five and Dinesh Chandimal fell to Leach, with James Anderson taking a superb running catch.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sibley-buttler-and-spinners-help-england-sweep-series/article33663391.ece
26 January 2021||Chennai,||Chennai gears up to host bio-secure Tests||With England sweeping the Test series against Sri Lanka 2-0 at Galle, all eyes are on the M.A. Chidambaram Stadium, the venue for the first two Tests of India’s four-match series against England. And the news is not good, at least for the spectators of this cricket-loving city and the media. They will most likely have to follow the Tests on television. Hands tied With the ECB making a request of no spectators and no media to the BCCI, the Board finds its hands tied in these times when COVID-19 has changed the manner in which we watch and cover international games. TNCA secretary R.S. Ramasaamy said to The Hindu on Monday, “The Board CEO Hemang Amin had told me that there would be no spectators or media for the Tests and we are going ahead with our preparations assuming that is the situation since nothing has changed.” With the first of the two Tests in Chennai beginning on February 5, it is too late for the TNCA and the BCCI to make arrangements for the spectators and the media in any case. Ramasaamy said the English players coming in from Sri Lanka would arrive here on January 27; Ben Stokes, Moeen Ali and a few other England cricketers, net bowlers and support staff reached Chennai on Sunday. Arriving in batches The Indian players too would come in batches on January 27 and would immediately, along with the English cricketers, enter the bio-bubble. As soon as the Indian and the English cricketers arrive, they would have to undergo a COVID test. “Subsequently, they would be tested every three days,” said Ramasaamy. The practice sessions would commence only from February 1. As a precautionary measure, the BCCI has booked the entire Leela Palace Hotel for the cricketers of both the teams, the support staff and the match officials. Ramasaamy said, “Even the security personnel at the hotel will have to be in the bubble.” Only the official broadcaster would be allowed access to the ground. The television crew would be put up in a single floor at Hotel ITC Grand Chola. They too would have to be in a bio-bubble. Three zones In fact, Ramasaamy said there would be three zones. The first would include players, support staff, match officials, and the television crew who would all have access to the ground. The second zone would comprise the TNCA officials and organisers, who would not be allowed entry into the ground. Zone 3 would have police officials who would guard the stadium from outside. They would not be permitted to enter the arena. Healthy grass cover The pitch for the Test is in the news for its healthy grass cover. Curator V. Ramesh Kumar said, “The weather was good and there were no matches, so, despite the challenges, we had the time and space to prepare a good sporting pitch.” Eventually, how much grass remains on the track would depend on the Indian captain and coach.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/chennai-gears-up-to-host-bio-secure-tests/article33663882.ece
26 January 2021||Karachi,||Azam confident as Pakistan faces South Africa test||Babar Azam will make his Test captaincy debut on Tuesday against a tough South Africa team that is touring Pakistan for the first time in more than 13 years. Azam has recovered from a thumb injury that kept him out of the two-Test series in New Zealand, which Pakistan lost 2-0. Proud moment “I missed the series against New Zealand, but it’s a proud moment for me that I am doing my captaincy debut in my own country,” Azam said on Monday. “South Africa is a good team. You can’t take them lightly, but conditions suit us more because most of us have played here,” he added. South Africa last toured Pakistan in 2007 because the country was forced to organise its “home” Test series in the United Arab Emirates following a terrorist attack on a bus carrying the Sri Lanka team in Lahore in 2009. The second Test will be played in Rawalpindi from Feb. 4, followed by the three-match T20I series in Lahore from Feb. 11-14. Pakistan is out of the race to qualify for the World Test Championship final at Lord’s in June while South Africa has only a mathematical chance to make it with India, New Zealand, Australia and England among the top contenders. Poor record Azam was well aware of Pakistan’s poor Test record against South Africa, winning only four of 26. One of Pakistan’s 15 losses came at the National Stadium — the venue for the first Test — when South Africa toured in 2007. “We should not think about past, we should focus on what’s ahead of us,” Azam said. “It’s a fact that we don’t have a good record against them, but we have prepared well and we hope to give our best against them this time.” Pakistan has included six uncapped players in a 17-man squad. Opening batsman Imran Butt and left-arm spinner Nauman Ali could make their Test debuts on Tuesday. Azam also said Pakistan might go with an additional spinner along with Yasir Shah. “We have practised here for a week now and the wicket looks a bit slow,” Azam said. South Africa also has left-arm spinner Keshav Maharaj to pose problems for the home team. The tourists have been practising for the last six days to get used to the conditions. “I’m sure this Pakistan team is going to be tough,” South Africa captain Quinton de Kock said when the team arrived. “I think our biggest challenge is the conditions that we could face and not knowing the things that we have to deal with.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/azam-confident-as-pakistan-faces-south-africa-test/article33663395.ece
26 January 2021||Madrid,||Relentless Atletico rallies to get past Valencia||Joao Felix and Luis Suarez combined to devastating effect as Atletico Madrid came from behind to beat Valencia 3-1 at home on Sunday to continue its relentless pursuit of the LaLiga title. Valencia took a shock lead in the 11th minute with an unstoppable long-range strike from Serbian midfielder Uros Racic but the league leader responded in the 23rd when Felix stuck out a foot to prod home from a corner. The Portuguese forward then latched on to a through ball to launch a quick counter attack early in the second half and released Suarez, who took a couple of touches before striking in off the far post from a tight angle. The Uruguayan, who was celebrating his 34th birthday, moved joint-top of LaLiga’s goalscoring charts alongside Sevilla’s Youssef En-Nesyri, with 12 strikes from 15 games since being forced out of Barcelona last year. Substitute Angel Correa then finished off a fine move from Marcos Llorente in the 72nd minute to clinch a seventh league win in a row for Diego Simeone’s side. Atletico leads the standings with 47 points from 18 games. Valencia is 14th on 20 points.  The results: LaLiga: Osasuna 3 (Budimir 27, 39, Moncayola 86) bt Granada 1 (Suarez 50); Elche 0 lost to Barcelona 2 (De Jong 39, Puig 89); Celta Vigo 1 (Mendez 9) drew with Eibar 1 (Gil 54); Atletico Madrid 3 (Felix 23, Suarez 54, Correa 72) bt Valencia 1 (Racic 11).   Serie A: Lazio 2 (Milinkovic-Savic 25, Immobile 71) bt Sassuolo 1 (Caputo 6); Parma 0 lost to Sampdoria 2 (Yoshida 25, Keita 34).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/relentless-atletico-rallies-to-get-past-valencia/article33663399.ece
26 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Setback for Carlsen and Harikrishna||P. Harikrishna suffered his first loss in the Tata Steel Masters chess tournament after running into an in-form Alireza Firouzja (5.5 points) who emerged as the sole leader after eight rounds in Wijk aan Zee, in the Netherlands, on Sunday. On a day when 16-year-old Russian Andrey Esipenko crushed Magnus Carlsen with a flawless display, all other games were drawn. Playing black, Harikrishna (4) paid the price for underestimating the danger posed by the position around the 33rd move. Notwithstanding a pawn-deficit, Harikrishna did his best to defend. Firouzja made him suffer by finding accurate continuations and eventually won in 56 moves. This was Firouzja’s third successive victory and fourth in all after starting his campaign with a defeat to Carlsen. Carlsen, whose last defeat to a teenager in this coveted event came against 16-year-old Anish Giri in the 2011 edition, looked lost by the 16th move against Esipenko. The youngster stayed calm to convert his advantage in 38 moves.  Eighth-round results: P. Harikrishna (4) lost to Alireza Firouzja (5.5); Andrey Esipenko (Rus, 5) bt Magnus Carlsen (Nor, 4); Fabiano Caruana (USA, 5) drew with Anish Giri (Ned, 5); Maxime Vachier-Lagrave (Fra, 5) drew with Jorden van Foreest (Ned, 5); Nils Grandelius (Swe, 4.5) drew with Radoslaw Wojtaszek (Pol, 3.5); Jan-Krzysztof Duda (Pol, 3) drew with David Anton Guijar (Esp, 3); Alexander Donchenko (Ger, 2.5) drew with Aryan Tari (Nor, 3) .   Alireza Firouzja (5.5 points) emerges as the sole leader after eight rounds||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/setback-for-carlsen-and-harikrishna/article33663432.ece
26 January 2021||KOLKATA,||Gokulam wins convincingly||Gokulam Kerala FC scripted a convincing 4-1 victory over Neroca FC in the Hero I-League at the Kalyani Stadium on Monday. It was Gokulam’s second win and Neroca’s second defeat. Gokulam rode on its luck to take the lead in the 23rd minute. Mohammed Rashid’s shot off a corner was inadvertently headed in by defender M. Jiteshwor Singh. Eight minutes later, Philip Adjah doubled the lead. Dennis Antwi passed the ball on to his Ghanaian colleague and the latter’s shot hit the crossbar and landed inside the Neroca post. Gokulam was 3-0 up after eight more minutes as Jestin George chested in a free-kick from the right. Contentious Neroca attacked with purpose and created a few chances After the change of ends Gokulam forward Antwi was brought down inside the Neroca box and it resulted in a penalty. After some argument among the Gokulam players, Sharif Mohammad converted the spot kick in the 86th minute. Nevertheless, the Afghan got a yellow card for kicking the ball angrily during the argument. Neroca pulled one back through Songpu Singsit in the closing minutes.  The results: Gokulam Kerala FC 4 (Jiteshwor 23-OG, Adjah 31, Jestin 39, Sharif 86) bt Neroca 1 (Songpu Singsit 88); Churchill Brothers 2 (Luka 19, Miranda 36) bt Sudeva Delhi FC 0.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/gokulam-wins-convincingly/article33663434.ece
26 January 2021||January 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Goncalves hands CFC a point||An Esmael Goncalves penalty earned Chennaiyin FC (CFC) a crucial point in a 1-1 draw against Indian Super League (ISL) leaders Mumbai City FC (MCFC) at the GMC Athletic Stadium in Bambolim on Monday. With the stalemate, Mumbai City FC extended its unbeaten record to 12 matches and retained its lead at the top to six points from 13 matches. Chennaiyin moved to fifth on the table with 16 points from 14. Change in approach CFC head coach Csaba Laszlo promised a change in approach and his side came out attacking from the off. Lallianzuala Chhangte and Esmael Goncalves drew saves from Amrinder Singh and Eli Sabia headed over from a corner in the first 15 minutes. Against the run of play, MCFC took the lead through Bartholomew Ogbeche in the 21st minute. Having only managed to clear a throw-in to Rowllin Borges outside the Chennaiyin box, Mumbai recycled the ball to the left before Bipin Singh swung in a cross into the six-yard box. Ogbeche, who was unmarked in the area, snuck behind Eli Sabia to power home a header into the top corner. Mumbai’s Mourtada Fall needed to make a couple of crucial interceptions from Thoi Singh’s crosses to deny Chennaiyin the opportunity to equalise before the end of the half. Better control Mumbai started the second period with better control through central midfielders Borges and Ahmed Jahouh but a lackadaisical approach from Jahouh at the back led to a penalty. From a short goal-kick, Jahouh was dispossessed by Jakub Sylvestr before having his leg clipped by the Moroccan. Goncalves stepped up to smash in the spot-kick with 14 minutes left on the clock. In stoppage time, substitute Adam le Fondre came close to getting the winner when he struck from distance but it was straight at Vishal Kaith, who made the save.  The result: Chennaiyin FC (Esmael Goncalves 76’) 1-1 Mumbai City FC (Bartholomew Ogbeche 21’).   Tuesday’s match: NEUFC vs ATKMB .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/goncalves-hands-cfc-a-point/article33663439.ece
26 January 2021||BENGALURU:,||Cosmic Ray on top in main event||S. Attaollahi-trained Cosmic Ray (Sandesh up) won the Bangalore Race Course 158th Year Commemoration Trophy, the chief event of the races held here on Monday (Jan. 25). The winner is owned by United Racing & Bloodstock Breeders Ltd. S. Attaollahi won two more races on the day.  The results:   1. SRINGERI PLATE (Div. III) , (1,200m), rated 15 to 35: LIMITED SOURCE (P.S. Chouhan) 1, Light Of Love (A. Imran) 2, Bombix (Mark) 3 and Pastiche (P. Surya) 4. 7, Nk and 3. 1m, 14.37s. Rs. 15 (w), 13, 17 and 15 (p), SHP: 33, THP: 37, FP: 50, Q: 57, Trinella: 321 and 131, Exacta: 265 and 113. Favourite: Limited Source. Owners: Mr. Rajan Aggarwal & Mr. Gautam Aggarwal. Trainer: Pradeep Annaiah.  2. BAGALKOT PLATE (1,600m), rated 00 to 20: IRONIC HUMOUR (S. John) 1, Iconic Princess (Indrajeet Singh) 2, Happy Dancing (P. Mani) 3 and Eco Friendly (M. Naveen) 4. Not run: Daring Sweetheart. 3/4, 1-1/4 and Shd. 1m, 41.53s. Rs. 260 (w), 42, 37 and 14 (p), SHP: 102, THP: 37, FP: 770, Q: 1,194, Trinella: 6,291, Exacta: 32,819 (carried over). Favourite: My Vision. Owners: Mr. Dean Stephens & Mr. P. Prasanna Kumar. Trainer: Prasanna Kumar.  3. SRINGERI PLATE (Div. II) , (1,200m), rated 15 to 35: GLENARY (Suraj) 1, Griffin (Vaibhav) 2, Carmine (P.S. Chouhan) 3 and Paradiso (Arshad) 4. Not run: Raw Gold. 2, 3-1/4 and 3-1/2. 1m, 13.66s. Rs. 28 (w), 16, 16 and 18 (p), SHP: 41, THP: 49, FP: 104, Q: 88, Trinella: 577 and 445, Exacta: 20,938 and 26,920. Favourite: Glenary. Owner: Mr. S. Pathy. Trainer: S. Narredu.  4. STATUE OF UNITY PLATE (1,200m), rated 60 & above: GALVARINO (Akshay K) 1, Abira (S. John) 2, Cuban Pete (Zervan) 3 and Set To Win (Darshan) 4. 1-3/4, 3-3/4 and 1. 1m, 12.65s. Rs. 30 (w), 21, 14 and 17 (p), SHP: 52, THP: 55, FP: 128, Q: 60, Trinella: 274 and 169, Exacta: 2,131 and 3,196. Favourite: Galvarino. Owner: Mr. Sujay Kumar Puttanna. Trainer: Prasanna Kumar.  5. A.S. RAMAIAH WINTER MILLION (1,200m), 3-y-o, (Terms): SCRUPLES (Trevor) 1, Spectacular (Neeraj) 2, Magellan (P.S. Chouhan) 3 and Southern Dynasty (Darshan) 4. 3-3/4, 1/2 and 3/4. 1m, 13.79s. Rs. 16 (w), 12 and 48 (p), SHP: 47, THP: 37, FP: 91, Q: 79, Trinella: 482 and 167, Exacta: 3,409 and 835. Favourite: Scruples. Owner: United Racing & Bloodstock Breeders Ltd. Trainer: S. Attaollahi.  6. BANGALORE RACE COURSE 158TH YEAR COMMEMORATION TROPHY (1,600m), 4-y-o & over, (Terms): COSMIC RAY (Sandesh) 1, Northern Alliance (Srinath) 2, Shesmyscript (P.S. Chouhan) 3 and Prevalent Force (Suraj) 4. 4-3/4, 1-1/4 and Hd. 1m, 36.74s. Rs. 45 (w), 20 and 16 (p), SHP: 26, THP: 36, FP: 177, Q: 103, Trinella: 755 and 462, Exacta: 1,006 and 230. Favourite: Prevalent Force. Owner: United Racing & Bloodstock Breeders Ltd. Trainer: S. Attaollahi.  7. SRIHARIKOTA PLATE (1,400m), rated 30 to 50, 5-y-o & over: ASGARDIA (Trevor) 1, Tokyo Rose (S. John) 2, Cosmic Feeling (P.P. Dhebe) 3 and Dreams United (S. Saqlain) 4. 1-1/4, Shd and 2. 1m, 26.82s. Rs. 26 (w), 14, 24 and 20 (p), SHP: 105, THP: 52, FP: 350, Q: 145, Trinella: 2,158 and 1,041, Exacta: 15,966 and 13,685. Favourite: The Corporal. Owners: Mr. P. Prabhakar Reddy & Mr. Rama Seshu Eyunni. Trainer: S. Attaollahi.  8. SRINGERI PLATE (Div. I) , (1,200m), rated 15 to 35: SEE MY HEELS (Akshay K) 1, Country’s Jewel (P.S. Chouhan) 2, Ocean Dunes (Antony) 3 and Bloom Buddy (Suraj) 4. 1-1/2, 1-3/4 and 2. 1m, 14.83s. Rs. 35 (w), 11, 19 and 43 (p), SHP: 42, THP: 69, FP: 424, Q: 116, Trinella: 2,035 and 1,744, Exacta: 2,418 and 962. Favourite: Bloom Buddy. Owners: Mr. Daulat Chhabria & Mr. S. Narredu. Trainer: S. Narredu. Jackpot: Rs. 1,812 (27 tkts.); Runner-up: 272 (77 tkts.); Treble (i): 201 (37 tkts.); (ii): 375 (27 tkts.).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/cosmic-ray-on-top-in-main-event/article33663441.ece
26 January 2021||London,||Chelsea fires coach Lampard||Frank Lampard was fired by Chelsea on Monday, halfway through his second season in charge of the London club after being unable to replicate his success as the club's record scorer in his first Premier League managerial job. Chelsea has lost five of its last eight Premier League games and dropped to ninth place, despite Lampard benefiting from nearly $300 million spent on new players for this season. Chelsea said the performances had not shown “any clear path to sustained improvement” — making a change of managers necessary. “This was a very difficult decision for the club, not least because I have an excellent personal relationship with Frank and I have the utmost respect for him,” owner Roman Abramovich said. “He is a man of great integrity and has the highest of work ethics. However, under current circumstances we believe it is best to change managers. “On behalf of everyone at the club, I would like to thank Frank for his work as head coach.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/chelsea-fires-coach-lampard/article33663393.ece
26 January 2021||BENGALURU:,||Unbeaten Forest Flame primed for feature event||Forest Flame, who unbeaten in all her five starts and continues to be in great heart as evidenced by her morning trials, appeals most in the Kingfisher Ultra Derby Bangalore (2,400m), the stellar attraction of the season to be run here on Tuesday (Jan. 26) afternoon. Stablemate Lagarde may add pep to the finish in the field of nine runners. There will be no false rails.  SADDLE UP CUP (1,200m), rated 00 to 20, 6-y-o & over, 1-30 p.m.: 1. She’s Superb (3) S. Shiva K 60, 2. Legend Is Back (12) R. Pradeep 59, 3. Nostradamus (11) S. John 58.5, 4. Premier Premises (2) Darshan 58.5, 5. Tiger Returns (8) Rayan 58.5, 6. Aerospeed (4) S. Asgar 58, 7. Blarney Stone (7) Arshad 58, 8. Glorious Days (10) A. Imran 58, 9. Master Of War (13) Trevor 58, 10. Azeemki Princess (5) T.S. Jodha 57.5, 11. Fierce Fighter (1) P.S. Chouhan 56, 12. Savisa (6) S. Shareef 56, 13. Shaktiman (9) S.K. Paswan 55.5 and 14. Eco Bonita (14) M. Naveen 54.5.  1. TIGER RETURNS,   2. NOSTRADAMUS,   3. MASTER OF WAR   TOTALIZATOR CUP (Div. I) , (1,400m), rated 15 to 35, 2-05: 1. Sherwin (14) S. John 60, 2. Black Whizz (3) S. Shareef 59, 3. Handsome (13) Gnaneshwar 59, 4. Lovely Sierra (11) Ashhad Asbar 58.5, 5. Zhu Zhu Zest (2) S. Saqlain 58.5, 6. Adela (9) R. Shelar 56.5, 7. Benignity (10) Chetan K 56.5, 8. Decorum (5) Jagadeesh 56.5, 9. Dynamical (8) Darshan 56.5, 10. Niche Cannabis (6) Trevor 56.5, 11. Perfect Impression (1) T.S. Jodha 56.5, 12. Praia Do Cassino (12) P.P. Dhebe 56.5, 13. Halfsies (7) M. Naveen 55.5 and 14. Shanghai Queen (4) P.S. Chouhan 55.  1. SHERWIN,   2. DYNAMICAL,   3. HANDSOME  INDIAN REPUBLIC TROPHY (1,400m), maiden 3-y-o only, (Terms), 2-40: 1. Devils Magic (2) Srinath 56, 2. Enrichment (5) Akshay K 56, 3. Kensington (3) S. John 56, 4. Linkin Park (7) R. Marshall 56, 5. Thousand Words (6) A. Imran 56, 6. Turkoman (1) Sandesh 56, 7. Lightning Flame (4) Darshan 54.5, 8. Pecanwood (8) Antony 54.5 and 9. Scintillating Lass (9) Suraj 54.5.  1. SCINTILLATING LASS,   2. DEVILS MAGIC,   3. PECANWOOD   T.B. HANUMANTHARAJ MEMORIAL TROPHY (1,400m), rated 30 to 50, 3-15: 1. Sea Of Cortez (13) Likith Appu 60, 2. Ashwa Mudrika (10) P.S. Chouhan 59, 3. Benediction (3) Md. Aliyar 58.5, 4. Fictioneer (14) Vinod Shinde 56.5, 5. Cavallini (12) Akshay K 56, 6. Ombudsman (2) Darshan 56, 7. Speaking Of Stars (8) Zervan 55.5, 8. Classic Charm (7) A. Imran 55, 9. Aleef (5) S. Asgar 54.5, 10. Exclusive Mandate (6) Neeraj 54.5, 11. Amazing Angel (9) Chetan K 54, 12. Marco Polo (1) Jagadeesh 54, 13. Twinkle Feet (11) T.S. Jodha 54 and 14. Watchmystars (4) Suraj 54.  1. WATCHMYSTARS, 2. CLASSIC CHARM, 3. SEA OF CORTEZ   KUMARARAJAH M.A.M. MUTHIAH TROPHY (1,200m), rated 45 to 65, 3-50: 1. Kvasir (3) J.H. Arul 60, 2. Regal Music (10) S. Mubarak 59.5, 3. Life Awaits (7) Rayan 58, 4. Side Winder (13) Md. Aliyar 57.5, 5. The Response (9) M. Naveen 57.5, 6. Animal Queen (11) Saddam H 57, 7, Big Boon (1) Tauseef 56, 8. Hokkaido (5) Suraj 55.5, 9. Alpha (2) P.P. Dhebe 55, 10. Royal Resolution (8) Sandesh 54.5, 11. Wings Of Desire (6) P.S. Chouhan 54.5, 12. Del Mar (14) R. Marshall 54, 13. Donna Bella (4) S. Shareef 50.5 and 14. Skyfire (12) P. Surya 50.  1. DEL MAR,   2. WINGS OF DESIRE,   3. HOKKAIDO   KINGFISHER ULTRA DERBY BANGALORE (2,400m), 4-y-o, (Terms), 4-30: 1. Acaster (7) Darshan 58, 2. Christopher Wren (1) Srinath 58, 3. Forever Together (2) Suraj 58, 4. Lagarde (9) Akshay K 58, 5. Sovereign Legend (8) Sandesh 58, 6. Antibes (6) S. John 56.5, 7. Forest Flame (3) Trevor 56.5, 8. Perfectimagination (4) T.S. Jodha 56.5 and 9. Rambunctious (5) Neeraj 56.5.  1. FOREST FLAME,   2. LAGARDE,   3. FOREVER TOGETHER   MYSORE RACE CLUB TROPHY (1,600m), rated 75 & over, 5-10: 1. Automatic (3) Suraj 60, 2. Brave Lady (7) Ashhad Asbar 55, 3. Sir Supremo (1) Arshad 55, 4. Akita Pro (2) S. Shareef 53.5, 5. Knight Templar (6) Trevor 52.5, 6. Rafa (4) Rayan 51.5 and 7. Roma Victor (5) Akshay K 50.  1. KNIGHT TEMPLAR, 2. ROMA VICTOR, 3. AKITA PRO   TOTALIZATOR CUP (Div. II) , (1,400m), rated 15 to 35, 5-45: 1. Rainbow Rising (2) P.S. Chouhan 60, 2. Ultimate Power (3) S. Saqlain 59.5, 3. Amalfi Sunrise (10) Saddam H 59, 4. Golden Memory (7) Darshan 59, 5. In A Breeze (12) Suraj 59, 6. Naayaab (4) Ranjeet Singh 59, 7. Activated (9) R. Marshall 58.5, 8. Handsome Rocky (13) Tauseef 58.5, 9. Paradise Beckons (6) Trevor 58.5, 10. Rosy Rapunzel (1) Gnaneshwar 58.5, 11. Capital Gain (14) Rayan 57.5, 12. Je Ne Sais Quoi (11) B. Nayak 57, 13. Heavenly Angel (8) Chandrashekar 56 and 14. Florencia (5) S. Asgar 55.5.  1. IN A BREEZE,   2. PARADISE BECKONS,   3. GOLDEN MEMORY  Day’s best: KNIGHT TEMPLAR  Double: SCINTILLATING LASS — DEL MAR  Jkt: 4, 5, 6, 7 & 8; Tr (i): 3, 4 & 5; (ii): 6, 7 & 8.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/unbeaten-forest-flame-primed-for-feature-event/article33663431.ece
26 January 2021||Bengaluru,||Padma award a lovely surprise: Venkatesh||K.Y. Venkatesh, a popular figure in the para sports community here, was conferred with the Padma Shri award on Monday. “I’m thrilled. I had applied for the Padma Shri award for the last three years, but I didn’t get it. This year, I didn’t apply, and won it. This has come as a lovely surprise. To receive such a great award from the government is an honour,” Venkatesh told The Hindu.      Medal-winning spree Venkatesh, afflicted with Achondroplasia, competed in the 1994 International Paralympic Committee athletics world championship. He won six medals in the 2005 World Dwarf Games. The 50-year-old later moved to administration. He is now serving as the secretary of the Karnataka Para Badminton Association.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/padma-award-a-lovely-surprise-venkatesh/article33663859.ece
26 January 2021||KOLKATA:,||Cricket match for Dr. Vece Paes Cup||In honour of Dr. Vece Paes, an Olympic medallist and father of tennis legend Leander Paes, in his 75th year, doctors of the city will organise a cricket match for the Dr. Vece Paes Cup here on Tuesday. The match will be played between Calcutta Cricket and Football Club (CCFC) and Doctors XI at the CCFC ground. Leander and Irfan Pathan will participate in the match.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/cricket-match-for-dr-vece-paes-cup/article33663610.ece
26 January 2021||MUMBAI,||Former umpire Piloo Reporter feted||Former international umpire Piloo Reporter was honoured by the Cricketers Foundation here on Monday. The 82-year-old, who stood in 14 Tests and 22 ODIs in a career spanning 28 years, was handed an amount of Rs. 75,000 by the foundation. In 1986, Reporter and V.K. Ramaswamy were invited by Imran Khan to officiate in the Pakistan-West Indies series, making them the first pair of neutral umpires in the world.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/former-umpire-piloo-reporter-feted/article33664039.ece
26 January 2021||January 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Explaining Visishtadvaita||Vedanta Desika authored many works on Visishtadvaita. Even his stotras are full of Visishtadvaitic tenets, said Veliyanallur T.S.R. Narayanachariar, in a discourse. Vyasa’s Brahma Sutra has 545 sutras, according to the Visishtadvaitic school, and has 156 adhikaranas. Ramanujacharya’s commentary on Brahma Sutra is called Sri Bhashyam. Sudarsana Suri wrote a commentary called Sruta Prakasika, on Sri Bhashyam. He says Sri Bhashyam is succinct, but majestic. It is not easy to understand Ramanuja’s commentary, which is why Acharyas have taken pains to explain it for us. Desika wrote works like Tattva mukta kalapa, Adhikarana Saravali etc, to help us understand Visishtadvaita. Each chapter in Brahma Sutra has sections called paadas and each paada has sub-sections called adhikaranas. In Adhikarana Saravali, which has 562 slokas, Desika points out what is special in each adhikarana. He anticipates questions that might be raised and answers them. Usually Purva Mimamsa and Uttara Mimamsa are dealt with separately. But Ramanuja did not accept such a division. He saw both of them as one. Ramanuja clarifies that this was not an idea that originated with him. He says he is following what Acharyas before him had said. The first sloka in Desika’s Adhikarana Saravali is a mangala sloka in praise of Lord Ranganatha of Srirangam. Lord Ranganatha gave Desika the title of Vedantacharya and Goddess Ranaganayaki gave him the title of Sarvatantra Svatantra. Although Desika wrote many Vedantic works, he felt that it was Adhikarana Saravali, which justified his title of Vedantacharya.. Through this work, Desika helps us understand Sri Bhasyam better. It talks about the auspicious qualities of the Supreme One and about how to reach His feet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/explaining-visishtadvaita/article33663388.ece
26 January 2021||January 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Stellar show||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/stellar-show/article33663863.ece
26 January 2021||GURUGRAM,||Ajay stuns Sanjith||Ajay Malik beat second seed Sanjith Devineni of the US 3-6, 6-3, 6-3 in the first round of the ITF grade-4 junior tennis tournament on Monday.   The results (first round): Boys: Aarav Samrat Hada (Nep) bt Kartik Parhar 6-2, 6-1; Vishesh Patel bt fateh Singh 6-1, 6-0; Krishan Hooda bt Aayush Bhat (USA) 4-6, 6-0, 6-2; Anargha Ganguly bt Kartik Saxena 6-0, 7-5; Heerak Vora bt Daksh Agarwal 6-3, 6-4; Dhruv Tangri bt Aditya Chopra 6-4, 6-2; Neelam Devaharshith (USA) bt Krishang Raghuvanshi 4-6, 6-3, 1-0 (retd.); Aman Dahiya bt Tejas Ahuja 6-2, 6-1; Chirag Duhan bt Dhanush Patel 6-3, 6-1; Dhuv Hirpara bt Nithlan Eric 6-0, 6-3; Torus Rawat bt Siddhant Sharma 6-3, 6-0; Ajay Malik bt Sanjith Devineni (USA) 3-6, 6-3, 6-3.   Girls: Sanjana Sirimalla bt Ananya Manchanda 6-2, 6-1; Renne Singla bt Ilia Jha 6-2, 6-1; Vaishnavi Adkar bt Shreya Bhat 6-0, 6-1; Aarni Reddy Yellu bt Anjali Rathi 6-3, 6-1; Sachi Sharma bt Hetvee Chaudhari 3-6, 6-1, 6-2; Bhakti Shah bt Lakshanya Vishwanath 6-3, 6-4; Shruti Ahlawat bt Riyah Dugar 6-3, 6-1; Riya Uboveja bt Kotisha Modak 7-5, 6-3; Veda Raju Prapurna bt Pavitra Parikh 6-4, 4-6, 6-3; Sudipta Kumar bt Vidhi Jani 1-6, 7-5, 6-3 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ajay-stuns-sanjith/article33663910.ece
26 January 2021||LOS ANGELES,||Leonard on fire for Clippers||Kawhi Leonard scored a game-high 34 points as the Los Angeles Clippers extended its season-high NBA win streak to seven games with a 108-100 win over the Oklahoma City Thunder on Sunday. Leonard shot 14 of 24 from the floor and finished with nine rebounds and eight assists. Serge Ibaka tallied 17 points, Reggie Jackson finished with 14 and Paul George scored 11 for the Clippers, who matched the Los Angeles Lakers for the best record in the league at 13-4. Bad run George Hill scored 22 points and Hamidou Diallo had 14 points for Oklahoma City, which lost its third in a row after having last Sunday’s game against Philadelphia postponed. In Boston, Jaylen Brown delivered one of the fastest scoring bursts in NBA history, scoring 20 of his 33 points in the third quarter as the Boston Celtics rolled over the Cleveland Cavaliers 141-103. Brown became the first player in NBA history to score more than 30 points in less than 20 minutes as the Celtics halted a three-game losing streak. Giannis’ feat Meanwhile, Milwaukee Bucks’ Giannis Antetokounmpo scored 27 points against Atlanta Hawks to become the sixth player in franchise history to reach 11,000 points, leading the Milwaukee Bucks to a 129-115 win over the Atlanta Hawks. Elsewhere, Dejounte Murray had a triple double with 11 points, 11 rebounds and 10 assists and Patty Mills scored a team high 21 as the San Antonio Spurs used a balanced and explosive offensive attack to breeze past the short-handed Washington Wizards 121-101. It was the first game in 13 days for the COVID-19 ravaged Wizards after a half dozen players tested positive and three had to miss time because of contact tracing.  The results: Portland 116 bt New York 113; San Antonio 121 bt Washington 101; Milwaukee 129 bt Atlanta 115;.   Boston 141 bt Cleveland 103; Orlando 104 lost to Charlotte 107; LA Clippers 108 bt Oklahoma City 100; Indiana 102 lost to Toronto 107.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/leonard-on-fire-for-clippers/article33663440.ece
26 January 2021||CHITTAGONG,||Bangladesh wraps up series in style||Bangladesh beat the West Indies by 120 runs in the third One-Day International here on Monday to sweep the series 3-0 and gain the full 30 points for the ODI Super League.  The scores: Bangladesh 297/6 in 50 overs (Tamim Iqbal 64, Mushfiqur Rahim 64, Shakib Al Hasan 51, Mahmudullah 64 n.o.) bt West Indies 177 in 44.2 overs (Rovman Powell 47, Mohd. Saifuddin 3/51).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bangladesh-wraps-up-series-in-style/article33663389.ece
26 January 2021||GALLE,||‘Need to be at our best to beat India in India’||Skipper Joe Root said on Monday that England will have to be on top of its game to beat India in its backyard. “We've got four very important games against arguably the best team in the world in their own conditions,” said Root. “We will have to be on top of our game to win out there. “We're going to have seven or eight days with no cricket, six days in quarantine and then three very important days of prep ahead of the series.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/need-to-be-at-our-best-to-beat-india-in-india/article33663396.ece
26 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||WTC final to be held from June 18 to 22||The start of the inaugural World Test Championship final has been pushed back by eight days and will now begin at Lord's on June 18, keeping in mind the proximity with the next IPL's summit showdown. The final of the inaugural championship was tentatively scheduled to begin on June 10. India is leading the table with 430 points (PCT 71.7), followed by New Zealand (420, 70) and Australia (332, 69.2).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/wtc-final-to-be-held-from-june-18-to-22/article33663398.ece
26 January 2021||Lake Buena Vista (USA),||Korda wins||Jessica Korda closed with a 5-under 66 and holed a 30-foot birdie putt on the first playoff hole on Sunday to beat Danielle Kang in the Diamond Resorts Tournament of Champions. Korda won for the sixth time on the LPGA Tour, and it was her first victory in nearly three years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/korda-wins/article33664036.ece
26 January 2021||PUNE,||Races at Mahalaxmi from Feb. 28||The stewards of the Royal Western India Turf Club (RWITC) have decided to resume racing, under closed doors, at Mumbai’s Mahalaxmi race course from February 28. The year’s two remaining Indian Classics — Indian Oaks (Gr.1) and Indian Derby (Gr.1) — will be run on March 7 (Sunday) and March 28 (Sunday) respectively. The Indian Turf Invitation Cup, to be hosted by RWITC this year, is scheduled for April 18 (Sunday). The revised prospectus for February, March and April will be released shortly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/races-at-mahalaxmi-from-feb-28/article33664037.ece
26 January 2021||Kolkata,||Majcen stars for Churchill||Luka Majcen’s magnificent performance helped Churchill Brothers post a 2-0 win over Sudeva Delhi FC in the Hero I-League here on Monday.   The result: Churchill Brothers 2 (Luka 19, Miranda 36) bt Sudeva Delhi FC 0; Gokulam Kerala FC 4 (Jiteshwor 23-OG, Adjah 31, Jestin 39, Sharif 86) bt Neroca 1 (Songpu Singsit 88).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/majcen-stars-for-churchill/article33663909.ece
26 January 2021||MOSCOW,||Russia not to appeal Olympic team restrictions||The Russian anti-doping agency confirmed on Monday that it will not file an appeal to further loosen restrictions on its teams at the Olympics and other major sports events. The Court of Arbitration for Sport last month ruled that Russia’s name, flag and anthem would be barred from the next two Olympics after backing the World Anti-Doping Agency’s finding that doping data was manipulated. However, CAS allowed Russian athletes and allowed them to keep wearing national colours.AP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/russia-not-to-appeal-olympic-team-restrictions/article33663585.ece
26 January 2021||January 26 2021 07:32 IST,||Sudoku - January 26, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-january-26-2021/article33664194.ece
26 January 2021||January 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Run in the Caribbean||A meme featuring Nicholas Pooran circulated among cricket lovers a few months ago, and no, it was not negative. The meme featured two pictures: one of the cricketer lying in a hospital bed in 2015 and another of him in 2020 flying across the boundary rope to attempt what was described as ‘the best save in cricket history’. The Caribbean cricketer became a familiar face among Indian fans not just for his heroic saves but also his exploits with the bat during the IPL. Pooran promises to continue the entertainment in the upcoming Abu Dhabi T10, a 10-over, fast-paced cricket format. Excerpts from a video call: T20 is already fast-paced. How exciting is T10? The IPL is fun all right, but this is a high-intensity tournament. It is not much thinking to be honest, but more about executing your skills. The batsmen look forward to striking the ball and having a good time. As a cricketer, what are the qualities you need to possess to excel in such a format?  Practice makes perfect, and I spend a lot of time on the nets. It is about finding yourself in good positions to execute your skills, regardless of whether you are a batsman or a bowler. You are captaining your side (Northern Warriors) for the first time. How do you see that role?  It is a new challenge for me. This format is so quick that you need to make judgement calls within a short span of time. I hope I do make some good decisions and contribute to our team’s success. Growing up watching cricket in the Carribean, did you have a captain/player you looked up to?  I didn't have one, but at the moment, I look up to Pollard (Keiron), from whom I have learnt a lot of cricket from. I'm trying to get some ideas from him! Does cricket also have to package itself to keep staying popular among TV audiences?  What people need is excitement, and T10 gives them that. As it is just an hour-and-a-half game, it is ideal for someone to catch before they log in to work or even after work hours. Your breathtaking fielding effort in the IPL has been hailed as the best ever. Would you put that down to instinct or many days of training hard?  A bit of both. And add game awareness to that. I think things like this do not happen by chance; I have been practising that for a while now. Tell us more about how crucial fielding is in faster formats.     It (fielding) can change the game sometimes. When bowlers are under pressure, a brilliant catch or save can lift their spirits. When you take a run out, it is still a wicket, and so fielders have a major role to play in all formats. You are a true product of franchise cricket...  You get to learn from other players about how they play in their part of the world. You gather all that information, and try to put it into your game and get better. It also means a lot of travelling and bio-bubbles, which can be challenging...  Well, I am still alive and coping with it (smiles). At some places I have toured recently, the bubble and quarantine periods were different. It is challenging because I feel sportsmen need to go out and get distracted from the game, especially if things are not going your way on the field. It is fine if everything is going your way, which is unlikely at most times. Your accident in 2015 was career-threatening. What did it teach you?  To appreciate life and everyone around you. At that time, I would keep thinking if I would get a chance to play the game again. Now, I try to live every day as my last, and be a much better individual.  Abu Dhabi T10 matches will be aired live on Sony Six and Sony Ten 3 (in Hindi) from January 28 to February 6||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/run-in-the-caribbean/article33663614.ece
26 January 2021||January 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Thatha, let’s talk terms and conditions||When Shreya Bajaj, co-founder of Easy Hai, received overwhelming responses from her trainees to learn more about Signal and Telegram, it struck a chord. Maybe it is not just the younger users worried about online privacy, but the elders as well, she thought. Shreya’s Easy Hai is a Bengaluru-based organisation that trains people in the use of simple technology through Zoom video calls, to enhance digital literacy. “There was so much confusion around whether one should leave WhatsApp, so it was time we helped our trainees learn about the alternatives,” Shreya says. The company trains both younger business folk and the elderly on safe use of digital tools. Facebook-owned WhatsApp updated its privacy policy earlier this month, reserving the right to share user data with the parent company. This stirred users as they worried about the amount of personal data the tech giant had access to. It is not just the younger users who understood the predatory practice. Older users, who are becoming increasingly well-versed with technology, were eager to make the shift to other messaging apps as well. Easy Hai’s classes cater to two sets of people. Predominantly above the age of 50, the first set comprise those who have been taking lessons for the past three months and are curious about how WhatsApp’s policy may impact them. They have also been learning about technology independently, recognise the prevalence of fake news and want to make a conscious effort to protect their online identity. The second set relies on word of mouth; they have been hearing from friends and family via WhatsApp forwards about how Facebook is putting them at risk and sought Shreya’s help to understand the issue. “All of them are part of so many online groups — yoga class, bhajan class, art class, that the privacy conversation became inevitable,” says Shreya. Thus began a quest to clear the clutter. Easy Hai conducted a class to familiarise users with Signal. Some users had already downloaded the app prior to the class, Shreya noted. The class spoke about the various features of Signal, how different the interface is from WhatsApp and how rookies can get started. It also addressed the major change users must be prepared for — using an entirely new platform altogether. Make informed switches The transition was not easy. Users made note of the several changes they have to undergo, which they took weeks to grasp. For example, iOS users complained about the inability to back up chats between multiple platforms. “This itself is a sign that we need not be in a hurry to switch to other apps. We need to give ourselves enough time to fully comprehend the changes and then make a decision,” Shreya told her students. There also involves a matter of choice, Shreya points out. We may hear from friends and family about the downsides of WhatsApp, but the choice to move out should ultimately be in the hands of the user, no matter the age. “Our job is to only put forth the pros and cons of what is happening, it should be up to them to make an informed choice,” she notes. A July 2017 survey titled ‘Changing Needs & Rights of Older People in India: A Review’ conducted by non-governmental organisation AgeWell Foundation, Delhi, revealed that nearly 94% elderly respondents were digitally illiterate. This percentage was much higher in women than in men above the age of 70. Organisations such as Easy Hai and AgeWell Foundation help push healthy conversation about the digital world among those who did not grow up with computers and mobile phones. “The same set of people who have been nonchalant about privacy and digital rights in the past, are now ready to discuss the implications of the recent development. This helps break the barrier of age and promote digital education,” said Apar Gupta, executive director, Internet Freedom Foundation, Delhi, a digital liberties organisation. This dialogue is taking place organically, Apar added. The prevalence of day-long chats on multiple WhatsApp groups has made people consider alternative messaging apps such as Signal. This includes older people, especially those who utilise WhatsApp groups to keep in touch with loved ones. Delhi-based retired engineer Amit Karmakar (67) is one such example. Amit signed up for lessons with AgeWell Foundation about a year ago, aiming to learn about computer and smartphone usage. When his friends started discussing the WhatsApp new policy few weeks ago, Amit decided to read up on the issue. “It is scary how much personal information is out in the open. If apps are not user-friendly, it is time to switch to safer ones,” he shares, stating that he is comfortable using WhatsApp, and happy to adapt to other platforms. He adds that he is also ready to tutor his peers. Turn of the century? There are still people who may be averse to change. Himanshu Rath, founder and chairman of AgeWell Foundation, said it is important to note that some people have only recently held a smartphone in their hands. These users may also be open to the idea of simply reverting to the old school method of SMS. “Sure, photos can’t be sent via the SMS, but it is not the end of the world,” he notes. Additionally, the penetration of the Internet and smartphone is limited to urban and Tier 1 cities, often leaving people in the rural areas and Tier 2 and 3 towns to fend for themselves. Awareness about digital rights and online privacy will only increase henceforth. With social media becoming increasingly influential and pushing important dialogue, age does not matter, as long as users have access to guidance.  The same set of people who have been nonchalant about privacy and digital rights in the past, are now ready to discuss the implications of the recent development Apar Gupta Executive Director, Internet Freedom Foundation   A numbers game 58% of the adult world population owns a smartphone, making it more commonly owned than radios, TVs and even a toothbrush, according to a survey titled 6th Global Smartphone User Survey conducted by Mobile Ecosystem Forum. The highest penetration rate among smartphone users in India in 2019 was in the age group of 16 and 24 at 37%, according to Mobile Ecosystem Forum. Although the penetration rate fell to nearly 10% users aged above 45 years, open operating systems, and low data rates helped fuel digital adoption.  More than half the respondents above the age of 60 said they require computer training for bettering social interaction, providing gainful employment and inculcating financial inclusion, according a survey titled ‘Changing Needs & Rights of Older People in India’ conducted by AgeWell Foundation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/thatha-lets-talk-terms-and-conditions/article33663618.ece
26 January 2021||New Delhi,||In R-Day speech, CM applauds sacrifices by ‘corona warriors’||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal addressed the people at the Republic Day celebrations held at the Delhi secretariat here on Monday, where he commended the contributions and sacrifices made by corona warriors during the pandemic. The Chief Minister said the people of Delhi and the Delhi government had collectively strengthened health infrastructure, which was why Delhi’s health system was intact even after a “severe novel coronavirus outbreak.” “If not for COVID-19, we would have celebrated the occasion at Chhatrasal Stadium along with our families and children. I hope that this year we will be relieved of the pandemic,” Mr. Kejriwal said. On November 11, the Chief Minister said there were 8,500 COVID-19 cases in a single day, which was the highest in any city in the world. Despite this, Delhi had 7,000 vacant dedicated COVID-19 beds in hospitals. He said, unlike in other cities, there were no patients lying in hospital campuses or on roads. Tough time “This was a tough phase, people lost their livelihoods, jobs. Shops, markets and factories were closed. Even the government faced a tough time because there was no tax collection. But in such a difficult time, I am happy that Delhi handled the situation in a stable manner,” he said. “At a time when people lost their livelihood and they could not eat, the Delhi government paid their employees and arranged for money from various sources, and provided dry ration to 1 crore people every month,” he also said. Doctors from the city, he said, led the way by taking the initiative in relation to plasma therapy. In April 2020, plasma therapy trials were started in ILBS and other Delhi government hospitals and Delhi’s first plasma bank was started on July 2. Since then, two more plasma banks — one at the LNJP hospital and the other at the GTB hospital — have been started and 4,929 people have been administered plasma therapy, he said. “Our doctors initiated home isolation, which was started for the first time across the world, in Delhi. We decided that asymptomatic and patients with mild symptoms will be treated at their homes. Until now, around 3,12,425 people have been treated under home isolation,” he said. “Our corona warriors did a commendable job during the pandemic. To salute their contributions, I personally went to the homes of around nine corona warriors, who lost their lives, to provide honorary assistance of Rs. 1 crore to their families,” he also said.  He said the Delhi government continued its subsidies on power and water bills. Out of a total of 52 lakh domestic consumers of electricity, around 38 lakh or 73% domestic consumers have received zero bills in the last billing cycle. Similarly, he said, of the 25 lakh water consumers in Delhi, 14 lakh or 56% had received zero bills in the last billing cycle. Health cards Meanwhile, health cards were going to be issued for the people of Delhi this year. “You can take this health card to any government hospital. You will have a health ID, you will not be required to carry any documents or medical slips because all your health record and history will be stored in that health card,” he said. “We will start with government health infrastructure first, including hospitals, mohalla clinics, polyclinics, dispensaries, society hospitals, and later on private hospitals will be added. Our Health Information Management System (HIMS) will be completed this year,” he also said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/cm-applauds-sacrifices-by-corona-warriors/article33663921.ece
26 January 2021||GURUGRAM,||Haryana CM to skip stir-hit district||The Haryana government on Monday announced a last-minute change in the Republic Day programme of Chief Minister Manohar Lal and several of his Cabinet colleagues reshuffling the districts where they were earlier scheduled to unfurl the national flag. Mr. Lal, earlier slated to preside over the Republic Day celebrations at Panipat, will now be the chief guest at Panchkula. In an unprecedented move, the Haryana government came out with a revised list of chief guests for the Republic Day function at several districts almost two weeks after the initial list on January 8. Though no reason was assigned for the revision in the list, the Chief Minister and his Cabinet colleagues programmes to the districts hit by the ongoing farmers agitation over farm laws have been cancelled. A query to Chief Secretary Vijai Vardhan in this connection did not elicit any response. Panipat, where Mr. Lal was earlier slated to unfurl the national flag, is also seen as one of the districts hit by the agitation. Mr. Vardhan will now be the chief guest at Panipat function. Besides Mr. Lal, the programme for the unfurling of the Tricolour by his Cabinet colleagues — Agriculture Minister J.P. Dalal, Archaeology & Museums Minister Anoop Dhanak and Women & Child Development Minster Kamlesh Dhanda — at Rohtak, Sirsa and Fatehabad were also cancelled. As per the revised list, the respective Deputy Commissioners of the three districts will now be the chief guests at the Republic Day functions at these places. While Mr. Dalal will now preside over the function at Rewari, Mr. Dhanak and Ms. Dhanda will unfurl the national flag at Faridabad and Nuh respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/haryana-cm-to-skip-stir-hit-district/article33663620.ece
26 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Some viewers to miss out as R-Day parade changes route||For people who are unable to buy a ticket or secure an invitation to the Republic Day parade that goes down Rajpath, the rooftops and bylanes of Daryaganj become a gallery where they come out and bring their children to witness it every year. But this year, the route of the parade will end at National Stadium, much to the disappointment of many who see the annual parade when it makes its way from India Gate towards Red Fort. However, with the usual security drill of closing buildings in the area a day before the parade, residents of the area are hopeful that the 32 tableaux — a part of the parade — will pass by the area. “Watching the parade on TV is very different from watching it live. We even visit Red Fort to see the tableaux that participated in the parade or try and catch a glimpse of it as it crossed old Dellhi but we have been told it is different this year,” said Rizwan, a resident of Old Delhi. Siddharth, who owns a helmet shop in Daryaganj, said every year, because of the parade, several maintenance works are carried on the main road in Daryaganj but this year, due to the ongoing strike by the civic bodies, even garbage on the road has not been picked up. “During the dress rehearsal for Republic Day, some people came to pick up the garbage but look, a day before the parade how dirty it is,” he said, pointing to a heap of packing garbage. While some shop owners complain that the Republic Day exercise hampers their business as they are made to shut shop for several hours the day ahead of the function, others see it as a sense of pride that they are contributing to an event that is the pride of the nation. “Although the marching contingents will not pass our shops, we are participating in the operation to secure the route as we have been told that the tableaux will pass this road. I see it as a contribution to the nation that we do not do business for a few days,” said Arun, a book store owner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/some-viewers-to-miss-out-as-republic-day-parade-changes-route/article33663924.ece
26 January 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi’s tableau resurrects efforts to restore Shahjahanabad’s heritage||The inclusion of Delhi’s tableau showcasing the ongoing redevelopment of Chandni Chowk during Republic Day celebrations here on Tuesday has resurrected efforts to restore more of Shahjahanabad’s heritage. Marking Delhi’s return to the festivities on Rajpath via a float proposed by it after three years, the tableau, showcasing 1.3 km of redevelopment work between the Red Fort and the Fatehpuri Mosque, will be the only other “live” tableau apart from the Ram Temple-themed Uttar Pradesh float. With mini contingents of four cyclists each riding along on either side to promote it as a means of commuting will mark possibly the first time that bicycles will run on Rajpath as part of a State float. According to government sources, apart from taking up work related to façade restoration on the stretch, which has been featured in the tableau, the Public Works Department (PWD) has also been directed to redesign the Netaji Subhash Marg from Delhi Gate to Kashmere Gate as a Heritage Road. Similar redevelopment, according to sources, in the vicinity of Jama Masjid, S.P. Mukherjee Marg to the Old Delhi Railway Station Road, other adjoining neighbourhood streets but stretches related to the city’s heritage in one way or another across Delhi is also expected to take shape soon. Meanwhile, sources said, work on a proposal for a draft legislative bill to recognise the Shahjahanabad Redevelopment Corporation (SRDC) as a Special Area Local Planning and Development Authority for the Walled City is also under way. As reported by The Hindu on December 31, 2020, the city’s proposed tableau for Republic Day celebrations this year is based on the Chandni Chowk Redevelopment Project – undertaken at a cost of Rs. 90 crore and part of a larger redevelopment plan for the Walled City of Shahjahanabad which is on the brink of being inaugurated – showcasing a Delhi government accomplishment after three years. Though a Delhi tableau was also part of the celebrations in 2019 – depicting Mahatma Gandhi’s 720-day stay in the city between 1915 and 1948 – it was part of a contingent of 22 others depicting different facets from the life of the Father of the Nation as per a ‘Gandhi connect’ theme to commemorate his 150th birth anniversary pre-decided by the Ministry of Defence. In 2017, the Delhi tableau illustrated a ‘Model Government School’ on the State government’s initiatives in the education sector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/delhis-tableau-revives-effort-to-restore-heritage-of-shahjahanabad/article33663926.ece
26 January 2021||New Delhi,||Highest no. of health workers vaccinated in Delhi||A total of 7,408 healthcare workers were vaccinated in Delhi on Monday – the highest since the vaccination drive started on January 16. Also, there were 14 “minor” adverse events following immunisation (AEFI), the Delhi government spokesperson said. Of the 14 AEFI, 13 were from using Covishield and one from Covaxin. The number of people vaccinated on Monday, the sixth day of drive in the city, was 91.5% of the target of 8,100 for the day. On the first day of the vaccination on January 16, 4,319 healthcare workers were vaccinated. On Monday, the figure was 3,598, on Tuesday it was 4,936, Thursday’s number was 5,942 and 6,967 on Saturday. Delhi uses both vaccines for COVID-19 – Covaxin and Covishield – from the first day. The increase in the number of vaccinations is due to better trust, change in policy allowing people not in the daily list of beneficiaries to also get vaccinated, and awareness classes for healthcare workers, according to officials. The city is currently inoculating about 2.4 lakh healthcare workers whose names have been registered with the government, and it is voluntary. The number of new COVID-19 cases remained low on Monday, with the city witnessing only 148 new cases in the last 24 hours, taking the total number of cases to 6,34,072, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government. Also, five more deaths have been reported in the past 24 hours, taking the total number of deaths to 10,813. A total of 48,450 tests were done in a day. Of the total cases, 6,21,565 people have recovered and there are 1,694 active cases here at present. The positivity rate of COVID-19 cases was 0.31% on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/7408-health-workers-get-covid-19-shot/article33663922.ece
26 January 2021||New Delhi,||Air quality to stay ‘very poor’ till Jan. 28||The air quality of Delhi and Noida was in the “very poor” category on Monday and Gurugram’s was in the “poor” category, according to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data. The national capital’s air quality is not expected to improve in the coming days. “No significant change in ventilation index is forecasted for the next three days, AQI is likely to stay in the middle-end of “very poor” from January 26-28,” read a statement by the government-run monitoring agency SAFAR (System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research). The speed of surface-level winds was “moderate”, which aided in lesser accumulation of pollutants near the surface, but the “mixing layer height”, which is the height from the ground level up to which pollutants can be dispersed, was “low”. This led to accumulation of pollutants near the surface. The AQI of Delhi was 323 on Monday, as per CPCB’s 4 pm bulletin, which is an average of the past 24 hours. The values for Gurugram and Noida were 280 and 352.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/air-quality-to-stay-very-poor-till-jan-28/article33664046.ece
26 January 2021||New Delhi,||BJP protests at 2,000 venues against ‘Rs. 26K cr. scam’ in DJB||The BJP on Monday staged demonstrations at nearly 2,000 venues seeking to expose an alleged Rs. 26,000 crore scam in the Delhi Jal Board (DJB). BJP Delhi president Adesh Gupta, while addressing activists at the RK Ashram Metro station, lashed out at Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and the Delhi government. “Those who used to take the vows of honesty, talked about not taking car and bungalow, and talked about not taking security, Mr. Kejriwal seems to be immersed in corruption from top to bottom,” Mr. Gupta alleged. “The ever-profitable DJB is going through a period of ruin in the wake of the Kejriwal government. The DJB has to pay loan interest of Rs. 3,400 crores every year and its income is only Rs. 2,400 crores every year. Kejriwal, if you can’t handle the chair of Chief Minister, then resign. You have no right to sit on it,” he demanded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bjp-protests-at-2000-venues-against-rs-26k-cr-scam-in-djb/article33664047.ece
26 January 2021||Patna,||Govt. official killed, buried||A government official, Ajay Kumar, was killed and buried at a secluded spot along a river in Patna district following a tiff with a fertilizer vendor, drawing fresh criticism of the Nitish Kumar government on Monday. Kumar was posted as the block agriculture officer at Masaurhi, and had been missing since January 18.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/govt-official-killed-buried/article33663918.ece
26 January 2021||Lucknow,||‘Hold polls to Waqf Board’||The Allahabad High Court on Monday set aside an order of the Uttar Pradesh government extending the term of the UP Sunni Central Waqf Board for the second time and ordered it to conduct elections and form the new board by February 28.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/hold-polls-to-waqf-board/article33663621.ece
26 January 2021||New Delhi,||Court raps South body, imposes cost of Rs. 25,000||The Delhi High Court on Monday imposed a cost of Rs. 25,000 on South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) for not sending to the Delhi Subordinate Services Selection Board (DSSSB) the requisition of over 1,100 vacant posts of special educators in schools run by the civic body. “Should the requisition not be sent in two weeks, the Commissioner of SDMC shall file a personal affidavit explaining the reasons and shall be present before the court on the next date of hearing on February 10,” Justice Najmi Waziri said. The court noted that on December 18, 2020, the south body was directed to urgently send the requisition to the DSSSB so that the process for recruitment can be initiated and it was granted three weeks to do so. It said the corporation has not sent requisition to DSSSB for initiation of the process, even after over four weeks. It said the authorities should show better alacrity for people who need special care but their conduct displays callous negligence for such citizens. The court also questioned the corporation for not recruiting special educators and not filling 1,132 vacant posts. The court’s direction came while hearing a contempt petition by NGO, Social Jurist, against the Delhi government, DSSSB and civic bodies to ensure zero teacher vacancy in schools.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/court-raps-south-body-imposes-cost-of-rs-25000/article33664043.ece
26 January 2021||January 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Finishing touches||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/finishing-touches/article33664044.ece
26 January 2021||New Delhi,||AAP blames BJP for strike by civic body employees||Citing garbage pile-ups across the city, the Aam Aadmi Party on Monday attacked the BJP over the ongoing strike by sanitation workers of municipal corporations. “Entire Delhi is suffering from a massive garbage issue. But the areas under the BJP-ruled North body are in the worst kind of situation for the last 15-20 days. If you go to any area under the jurisdiction of the North body, you will see that the piles of garbage are scattered everywhere. The reason behind this situation is that the sanitation workers of the civic body are on strike for the last several days as they are not given salaries for the past 5-6 months,” said AAP leader Durgesh Pathak. Mr. Pathak said the BJP must not play with the health of the citizens and lives of sanitation workers. He demanded the immediate release of pending salaries of the employees. He alleged that the BJP is disbursing Rs. 938 crore released by Delhi government in the name of councilor fund.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/aap-blames-bjp-for-strike-by-civic-body-employees/article33664048.ece
