27 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Tractor rally turns violent as farmers enter Capital||Delhi witnessed chaotic scenes on Tuesday as groups of protesting farmers broke off from the planned Republic Day tractor parade routes and swarmed into the heart of the national capital, hoisting a union flag and a Sikh religious flag inside Red Fort. Police used tear gas, water cannons and lathicharge to stop the farmers at several locations in the city, including at ITO, where one protester died. The Delhi police said 83 personnel and one civilian were injured in the protests. By evening, the Home Ministry deployed additional paramilitary forces, and suspended mobile Internet services in several parts of the city. In a statement issued late in the evening, the Delhi police said the protesting farmers had breached the agreement with the unions and began their march before the scheduled time. “They chose the path of violence and vandalism, and seeing that the police had to take necessary steps to maintain law and order. This agitation led to damage of public property and many police personnel were also injured,” they said. The police have registered 11 FIRs against the protesters for damaging public property and attacking personnel in east Delhi. Farm union leaders condemned the violence, and distanced themselves from “anti-social elements” who, they claimed, had infiltrated the protest, insisting that the vast majority of protesters remained peaceful. They vowed that their agitation demanding the repeal of the three contentious farm reform laws would continue, but admitted that Tuesday’s violence could hurt their negotiations with the government.After intense negotiations, the Delhi police had given permission for three parade routes, staying near the border areas, scheduled to start from noon. The Samyukt Kisan Morcha, the joint front of all protesting unions, had agreed to their conditions. Tensions on U.P. border However, trouble started late on Monday night as hundreds of farmers on tractors from neighbouring Uttar Pradesh threatened to enter Delhi at the northeastern Loni border point, with the police saying they were “directionless and leaderless”, but wanted to go to the Red Fort. On Tuesday morning, even before the official contingents rolled down Rajpath, one defiant farm union from Punjab, the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, broke through the barricades at the northwestern Singhu border with Haryana, and tractors drove out on the road to Delhi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tractor-rally-turns-violent-as-farmers-enter-capital/article33671061.ece
27 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||Governor bats for three capitals||Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan has reiterated that government is of the firm view that decentralisation of development will usher in balanced development of all regions and the past examples have shown that concentration of development at a singular place will lead to unrest and regional imbalances. Development will be balanced with Visakhapatnam as Executive Capital, Amaravati being Legislative Capital and Kurnool as Judiciary Capital, the Governor said in his 72nd Republic Day address, which Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy and other dignitaries attended at Indira Gandhi Municipal Corporation Stadium here on Tuesday. Mr. Harichandan unfurled the national flag, reviewed the parade led by AP Special Police Battalion IGP Sankhabrata Bagchi and Mangalagiri APSP Battalion DIG G. Vijay Kumar. Mr. Harichandan recalled the sacrifices of freedom fighters for the country and paid homage to them. Listing out the welfare schemes rolled by by the government for different sectors, Mr. Harichandan said the government was giving priority for agriculture, education, medical, health, housing, distribution of ration, development of Anganwadi centres, direct benefit transfers (DBT) of pensions, zero per cent interest loans for women groups and other schemes and lauded the government for introducing many welfare schemes. He expressed happiness over announcement of Padma Vibhushan to playback singer S.P. Balasubramanyam, who passed away due to COVID-19 recently. Mr. Harichandan congratulated Padma Shri awardees Rama Swamy, A. Prakasha Rao and N. Sumathi. Vaccination The government had effectively handled COVID-19 situation in the State, and had put in place necessary infrastructure and staff for vaccination. In all, 11 lakh doses of vaccine were readied and in the first phase 3.8 lakh health workers, eight lakh other frontline department staff would be vaccinated. Another one crore persons aged 50 and above and those with comorbidities would be vaccinated, said Mr. Harichandan. Tableaux displayed by various departments attracted the visitors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/governor-bats-for-three-capitals/article33671045.ece
27 January 2021||MANGALURU,||Plastic park will not only ensure jobs but also help develop district, says Minister||The proposed plastic park in Ganjimutt on the outskirts of the city will not only provide employment for youth but also help in the development of Dakshina Kannada, said Minister in-charge of Dakshina Kannada Kota Srinivas Poojary here on Tuesday. Speaking at the Republic Day celebrations at Nehru Maidan, Mr. Poojary said that the Union Ministry for Chemicals and Feritilizers has given “in-principle approval” for the project (the State government has been asked to submit a detailed project report in six months). Mr. Poojary said that the 450-km-long natural gas pipeline between Kochi and Mangaluru, which was recently dedicated to the nation by the Prime Minister, will meet the clean energy demands of industries, vehicles and households in the region. The construction of a fishing jetty has been taken up at Kulai in the city at a cost of Rs. 196.51 crore. A new coastal berth was coming up at Bengre at a cost of Rs. 65 crore under the Sagar Mala Scheme. The Union government has released Rs. 1,000 crore for setting up a Coast Guard Academy in Kenjar. As much as Rs. 114.7 crore will be spent on improvement of roads on Sampaje, Shiradi and Charmadi ghats. Tunnelling work on Shiradi Ghat will be taken up at a cost of Rs. 10,000 crore. An 11-floor new Central Market complex will be built and also, a new bus station will be constructed at Pumpwell in the city. As part of improving drinking water supply and other water requirements in the rural areas in Dakshina Kannada, the Minister said, a vented dam is being built across the Netravathi river at a cost of Rs. 174 crore. The government is improving roads, meeting energy requirements and addressing issues concerning solid waste management in rural areas, he said. The Minister earlier received a guard of honour. He then presented Hoysala and Keladi Chennamma awards to eight children in the innovation, art, sports and other achievements categories. The students who received the awards were Amoga Narayan, Prakhyat Y.B., Ashraya P., Shreejitha, Ojaswi, Shravya R., Aradhana Bekal and Kuldeep Kumar. The Government Lady Goschen Hospital, the Taluk Hospitals in Puttur and Sullia and private hospitals — Indiana Hospital, Father Muller Hospital, K.S. Hedge and Yenepoya Hospitals — received awards for good implementation of the Ayushman Bharat Arogya Karnataka health insurance scheme in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/plastic-park-will-not-only-ensure-jobs-but-also-help-develop-district-says-minister/article33671438.ece
27 January 2021||Bengaluru,||Police keep most tractors at bay, but farmers protest across State||Thousands of farmers across Karnataka protesting against the three new farm laws enacted by the Union government held parallel Republic Day parades on Tuesday – in some cases with their tractors – terming it ‘Jana Ganarajya Divasa’, along the lines of the rally in New Delhi. Protests were held in Bengaluru, Mysuru, Mangaluru, Belagavi, Hubballi-Dharwad and Kalaburagi. Police set up hurdles for tractor rallies in most of these cities, especially in Bengaluru and adjoining Chikkaballapur, Kolar and Ramanagaram districts. The police stopped tractors as they moved towards Bengaluru, leading to verbal altercations and sit-in protests at several sites. ‘Warning by police’ Leaders alleged that the police had visited houses of farmers in Anekal and Doddaballapura, on the city’s outskirts, warning them not to join the protest with their tractors. Police allowed less than a hundred tractors into Bengaluru. Farmers held a symbolic tractor parade, entering the city through five entry points and congregating at Freedom Park. Not just farmers Most of the protests saw the participation of not only farmers, but also Dalit, Left, labour and Kannada organisations. Farmers hoisted the tricolour on Tuesday and observed a minute’s silence for those who lost their lives in the Delhi protest. The protests were marked by a sense of defiance, songs, anti-corporate and anti-BJP slogans with participants demanding immediate rollback of the three farm laws. Farmers' leader Kodihalli Chandrashekar addressed the crowd at Freedom Park in Bengaluru where the rally culminated. Terming the protests across the country, especially in Delhi, as historic and a clear message to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, he said. “The violent turn the protest took is regrettable. But this is what happens when you test the patience of a community beyond limits. This country has fought hard to come out of the clutches of the East India Company, but now the Prime Minister seems keen to hand over the company to Ambani and Adani [owners of prominent corporate groups].” He warned that if the government does not repeal the laws, “we will expand the protests to the State and choke Bengaluru.” Opposing the recent stringent norms on cow slaughter, he said, “People from Basavanagudi and Jayanagar need not teach us about cows. We worship them, but a complete ban on their slaughter would be a burden on farmers.” Another farmer leader Chamarasa Malipatil describing the farmers’ movement as a “second freedom movement” said it was a misnomer that farm laws affected only farmers. “Anyone who eats food is impacted by these laws. The corporatisation of the food sector will affect food prices, the diets of people, food diversity and, hence, food security. The government seems to think that it can effect widespread changes to our entire food culture by stealth, despite opposition from a large section of society,” he said, appealing to other sections of society to join the stir. Centenarian freedom fighter H.S. Doreswamy, who presided over the public rally at Freedom Park, said the farmers’ movement and the recent anti-CAA-NRC protests had instilled a sense of hope in him for the country.  Anyone who eats food is impacted by these laws. The corporatisation of the food sector will affect food prices, the diets of people, food diversity and, hence, food security Chamarasa Malipatil, farmer leader||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/police-keep-most-tractors-at-bay-as-farmers-converge-on-city/article33671099.ece
27 January 2021||HYDERABAD,||‘Telangana an inspiration for other States’||Asserting that Telangana, the new State with new schemes, initiatives and new innovations created a new record, Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan said it is emerging as the strongest State and providing inspiration to other States to emulate the ‘Telangana Model’. The Governor said the State has achieved several distinctions in agriculture, power and supply of drinking water to 100 per cent households compared to the rest of the country in a short span of six years. “Though a newly born State, Telangana has been attracting the attention of the entire country and became a role model that is ‘Telangana model’,” she said. The Governor was speaking after unfurling the tricolour to mark the 72nd Republic Day on Tuesday. Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao received the Governor as she arrived at the venue, the Public Gardens, and introduced several civil and defence officials to her. Dr. Soundararajan inspected the ceremonial parade conducted under the overall command and control of College or Air Warfare (CAW) commandant Air Vice-Marshal K.S.K. Suresh. In her speech, the Governor recalled how the State stood first and was unique in the country in several sectors due to planned and systemic efforts and had turned out as inspiration for other States. She elaborated on the efforts made by the government which could effectively contain the spread of Covid-19 and said the State ranked well above the national average in terms of recovery rate while it was far below the national average in case fatality rate. The Dharani Portal introduced as part of land reforms was highly successful, the initiatives in the agriculture sector ensured that paddy was cultivated in 1.04 crore acres of land as against the 35 lakh acres at the time of the State formation. “Telangana accounted for 64 lakh tonnes of the 1.15 crore tonne paddy procured by the FCI, contributing 55 per cent of the total procurement,” she said. The State had also become number one in terms of per capita power consumption, an important indicator of the development index. While reforms were put in place to ensure easy access of administration for the common man, equal emphasis was laid on public health. The NITI Ayog declared that Telangana State consecutively stood third in the country for the third time in providing better medical facilities in government hospitals. The Governor also elaborated on the developments in the Industrial and IT areas Maintenance of law and order was on the top of the agenda and it was important to note that 65 per cent of CCTV cameras installed in the country were in Telangana.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/telangana-an-inspiration-for-other-states/article33671376.ece
27 January 2021||GUNTUR,||Panchayats to get cash incentives for unanimous election of members||The State government has announced financial incentives for those who get elected unanimously for the post of sarpanch and member of gram panchayats during the local body elections. According to a G.O Ms No 34 issued by the Chief Secretary Aditya Nath Das, the government has announced a financial incentive of Rs. 5 lakh for villages having population less than 2,000, Rs. 10 lakh for gram panchayats having population between 2,001 and 5,000, Rs. 15 lakh for villages having population between 5,001 and 10,000 and Rs. 20 lakh for panchayats having population more than 10,000. Earlier, the government had announced cash incentive of Rs. 7 lakh for gram panchayats having population up to 15,000 and Rs. 20 lakh for gram panchayats having more population more than 15,000. The decision of the government is in tune with similar practices followed by Gujarat, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Telangana and Punjab, which continue to have elections on non-party basis. In Gujarat, unanimous elections are conferred with award of money to the gram panchayat from the State Government, under the Samras Scheme. The decision follows the recommendations by the Panchayat Raj and Rural Development departments to give cash incentives to those sarpanches and members who have been elected unanimously.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/panchayats-to-get-cash-incentives-for-unanimous-election-of-members/article33671052.ece
27 January 2021||NEW DELHI/CHANDIGARH,||Farmer leaders blame ‘anti-social elements’||There was plenty of finger-pointing as farm union leaders rushed to distance themselves from the protesters who engaged in clashes with the police and rampaged the Red Fort on Tuesday. Several leaders admitted that the violence could weaken their cause. The Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC), a defiant Punjab union which was the first to break from the agreed route, blamed “anti-social elements”. “We strongly condemn the incident. It’s an act of anti-social elements. We never had any plan to go to the Red Fort and stage any kind of protest over there. The aim of these anti-social elements seems to weaken the ongoing farmers’ movement,” said KMSC general secretary Sarvan Singh Pandher. All India Kisan Sabha general secretary Hannan Mollah, who is part of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha leadership that has been negotiating with the government, blamed the KMSC as well as a “rogue criminal element” for betraying the farmers. “We condemn such action. It is not that farmers are out of control,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/farmer-leaders-blame-anti-social-elements/article33671059.ece
27 January 2021||KALABURAGI,||Traffic hit in Kalaburagi||Thousands of farmers on hundreds of tractors drove through the major streets in Kalaburagi on the 72nd Republic Day on Tuesday opposing the recent farm laws enacted by the Union government.  Decorated with green flags and banners, over 300 tractors carrying the farmers participated in the parade. The parade began from Humnabad Road Circle on the Ring Road and passed through the busy market area and Jagat Circle to reach the premises of the district administrative complex where a public meeting was held. Traffic movement was disrupted for a few hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/traffic-hit-in-kalaburagi/article33671342.ece
27 January 2021||HUBBALLI,||Farmers take out tractor rallies in several dists||Farmers and pro-farmers organisations along with members of different political parties took out tractor rallies and also bullock cart and motorcycle rallies in various districts of Bombay Karnataka on Tuesday in support of the ongoing farmers agitation in New Delhi seeking repeal of the new farm laws. Tractor rallies were taken out in Dharwad, Hubballi, Haveri and other places, with hundreds of farmers assembling in large numbers and participating in the rallies. Through the peaceful protests, the farmers and members of the Opposition parties demanded immediate withdrawal of the new farm laws, which, they said, were against the interests of farmers. In Dharwad, under the aegis of Raita Hitarakshana Samiti, the former Union Minister Babagouda Patil, social activist Ganesh N. Devy, Congress leaders Pandurang Neeralakeri, Shakir Sanadi, Bangaresh Hiremath, Janata Dal(S) leader Gururaj Hunasimarad and others took part in the tractor rally. The rally began from the APMC Yard and concluded at the Deputy Commissioner’s office in Dharwad. In the other tractor rally taken out by Raita Krishi Karmikara Sanghatane (RKS), the Karnataka Rajya Raita Sangha and Hasiru Sene and other progressive organisations, not many tractors were seen due to the restrictions imposed by the police. The organisers said that as the police had denied permission for a larger rally, they had appealed to farmers from villages not to come to Dharwad. The tractor rally originated and concluded on Kalabhavan premises after covering the arterial roads of the city. In Hubballi, members of various organisations took out a tractor rally and some even came on bullock carts and motorcycles. In Haveri, hundreds of farmers drove their tractors from different directions to the Municipal High School Grounds, where a protest meeting was held.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/farmers-take-out-tractor-rallies-in-several-dists/article33671345.ece
27 January 2021||GUNTUR,||Officials transferred||Guntur District Collector I. Samuel Ananda Kumar has been relieved of his duties and asked to report to General Administration Department. Joint Collector AS Dinesh Kumar was given as full additional charge. In the latest reshuffle carried as per the directions of State Election Commission, the state government decided to shift Mr Samuel. Collector of Chittoor Narayana Bharath Gupta was also relieved in connection with the SEC’s direction over the panchayat elections. In his place, Joint Collector Markandeyulu took charge of the duties. Chittoor Superintendent of Police S. Senthil Kumar took additional charge as Tirupat Urban SP in the place of A. Ramesh Reddy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/officials-transferred/article33671051.ece
27 January 2021||CHENNAI,||18 minor girls rescued from unregistered home||Officials from the District Child Welfare Committee, the District Child Protection Unit and two special police units rescued 18 minor girls, who were allegedly subjected to sexual abuse, from an unregistered home at Vyasarpadi here. Police sources said the girls were rescued following a call received by Childline 1098. The caller claimed that the children were being sexually abused by the home in-charge, Kalyanasundaram. The Childline team alerted the District Child Protection Officer (DCPO), the Child Welfare Committee (CWC) and the Special Juvenile Police Unit (SJPU).  “Following the call, the DCPO, members of the CWC, police personnel from the SJPU and the W-18 M.K.B Nagar all-woman police station and officials from Childline went to the location given by the caller and spoke to the children, who confirmed that they had been sexually abused,” a police officer said. Temporary shelter “The team rescued 18 children from the home. They were produced before the CWC and provided temporary shelter at another home near Chetpet,” the officer added. Francis Adaikalam, a member of the CWC, said the team inspected the unregistered home on Monday following the call to Childline. “The team rescued 18 children from the home, who were produced before the CWC and provided temporary shelter at another home near Chetpet,” the officer added. Francis Adaikalam, a member of the CWC, said the team inspected the unregistered home on Monday. “The children were all girls between 9 and 17 years of age. When they were rescued, some of them said they had been sexually abused by the person who ran the home. While some are orphans, others, despite having parents, had been living in the home since they hail from economically backward families,” he said. Members of the CWC spoke to some of the parents on Monday. They have been speaking to the children as well to find out more about what happened in the unregistered home. “They are all safe in another home in the city, and over the next few days, we will continue speaking to the parents and decide on the future course of action,” Mr. Adaikalam said. An official from the District Child Protection Unit said that once they were informed that the home was unregistered, they immediately went there for an inspection. “We are acting on any information about unregistered homes in the city and carrying out inspections. Strict action would be taken against homes that haven’t been registered,” she said. (Childline operates a toll-free helpline for children in distress - 1098)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/18-girls-rescued-from-unregistered-city-home/article33671137.ece
27 January 2021||YADGIR,||Tractor rally politically motivated, says Nirani||Minister for Mines and Geology Murugesh Nirani has said that the tractor rally taken out by farmers against farm laws was politically motivated by the Opposition parties. He was talking to reporters after participating in the 72nd Republic Day function in Yadgir on Tuesday. He accused the Opposition parties of misleading the farmers and termed the tractor rally politically motivated. It was not concerned with farmers welfare, he said. “The BJP government is pro-farmer. Some politicians are misusing the farmers protest for their political gain. Those who are inciting farmers and sponsoring such tractor rallies will soon be exposed,” Mr. Nirani added Refuting reports of displeasure among Ministers over allocation of portfolios by Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, Mr. Nirani said that he is satisfied with his portfolio. He went on to say that he is ready to handle any portfolio that the other Ministers may not want. Mr. Nirani also added that he was ready to shoulder responsibilities if he was made district in-charge Minister of Yadgir or any other district and would abide by the decision of Mr. Yediyurappa. MLA and Chairman of Urban Water Supply and Sanitisation Board Narasihma Naik and MLC B.G. Patil were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tractor-rally-politically-motivated-says-nirani/article33671343.ece
27 January 2021||HUBBALLI,||‘Congress is responsible for the death of farmer’||Accusing the Congress of misleading farmers, Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar has said that that party was directly responsible for the death of a farmer involved in the Delhi agitation. Speaking to presspersons in Dharwad on Tuesday after the Republic Day celebrations, Mr. Shettar said that as the Congress had become jobless, it had misguided farmers, which had resulted in the farmers opposing the farm laws promulgated with the good intention of doubling their income. The Minister said that only farmers from Punjab and Haryana were protesting against the farm laws and no farmer in Karnataka had opposed them. Instead of joining hands with the government in implementing good ideas, the Opposition had confined itself to making criticism, he said. On the delay in widening the Hubballi-Dharwad Bypass Road into a six-lane road, the Minister said that several rounds of discussions had already taken place with Nandi Highway Developers (NHD) owned by the former legislator Ashok Kheni. “NHD has given a no-objection letter for widening the road. A detailed project report is being prepared. On approval, tender will be floated,” he said and added that Rs. 1,200 crore may be required for widening the 32-km stretch into a six-lane road.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/congress-is-responsible-for-the-death-of-farmer/article33671344.ece
27 January 2021||MYSURU,||Mysuru’s first EV charging station launched||Mysuru’s first electric vehicle (EV) charging station was launched on the premises of the Chamundeshwari Electricity Supply Corporation’s (CESC) Corporate Office at Vijayanagar, near Hinkal, on Tuesday. Charging infrastructure for zero-emission vehicles in the city is all set for an improvement as two more stations will come up shortly at Kuvempunagar and Rajendranagar.This comes at a time when the number of EVs are on the rise in Mysuru with the entry of new variants to market in both two-wheeler and four-wheeler categories. The CESC is planning to throw open more such charging stations as there is a big push from the government for vehicles run on green energy. CESC managing director Manohar M. Bevinamara, who inaugurated the charging station, told The Hindu that it had been established at a cost of Rs. 8 lakh. Energy Efficiency Services Ltd., an entity promoted by the Union Ministry of Power, which has an understanding with the CESC, has set up the station. “We have supported the initiative by giving our land for setting up the station. Our idea is to help develop more such stations across Mysuru to promote the use of green vehicles. If the charging infrastructure is developed, it drives people to think of going for EVs, which are eco-friendly, and save on fuel costs,” the CESC MD said. Mr. Bevinamara said three more locations had been identified for establishing charging stations. Vehicles can be charged for free for the first three months starting from Tuesday. Thereafter, charging will come for a cost as per the tariff fixed by the Karnataka Electricity Regulatory Commission (KERC). “It may cost around Rs. 8 a unit for charging at the station,” he said. Arguing that EVs are set to replace vehicles using fossil fuels as the cost works out cheaper, the CESC MD said, “An EV (depending on the kind of vehicle variant) with a charge of three to four units can run up to 100 km. For covering the same distance, one may need at least six litres of petrol or diesel. EVs with latest technology promising efficiency are being launched. This will encourage more to go for green vehicles.” Sources in the transport sector said electric cars for mobility were yet to catch up unlike ‘green’ scooters whose numbers were seeing a sharp rise. “Infrastructure for faster charging on the go such as fuel stations is expected to boost the EV sector. If the gaps are filled, they are going to make an impact. The new guidelines are bound to encourage people to consider using electric vehicles,” sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mysurus-first-ev-charging-station-launched/article33671460.ece
27 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Ready to continue talks, says Centre||The Centre is inclined to continue talks with agitating farmer leaders despite the violence and chaos in the capital on Republic Day, a top government source told The Hindu . “We are, of course, waiting and watching how events will play out,” the source told this writer, stressing that the government had been flexible in holding a dialogue with farm leaders. With police deployed to deal with the continued law and order challenge from what appears to be a splinter element of the agitating farmers, the government has an open mind on continuing talks. “We will be looking closely at all these issues on Wednesday,” a Cabinet Minister told this correspondent. The Minister said the government has presented the agitating farmers with a compromise deal by agreeing to suspend the operation of the laws, but they had rejected it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ready-to-continue-talks-says-centre/article33671058.ece
27 January 2021||Tiruppur,||Three students test positive in Tiruppur||A week after schools reopened for students of Classes 10 and 12, three Class 12 students of a government school near Kangeyam, in Tiruppur district, tested positive for COVID-19 on Monday, the Health Department said. According to Deputy Director of Health Services (Tiruppur) K. Jegadeesh Kumar, a medical team from the Rashtriya Bal Swasthya Karyakram visited the Government Higher Secondary School, Muthur, on Saturday. They lifted samples from all students, and the test results confirmed that two boys and one girl from Class 12 had contracted the infection. They were taken to the Tiruppur Government Medical College Hospital on Monday for treatment. Dr. Kumar said it was not immediately clear how the three had contracted the virus. Samples from 10 students, who were sitting close to the COVID-19-positive pupils, were lifted. “If any more students show [COVID-19] symptoms, they will also be tested,” Dr. Kumar said. An official said the premises had been disinfected on Monday, and the three classrooms used by students of Classes 10 and 12 would remain closed for a week.  If any more students show [COVID-19] symptoms, they will also be testedK. Jegadeesh KumarDeputy Director of Health Services (Tiruppur)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/3-students-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-tiruppur/article33671136.ece
27 January 2021||HYDERABAD,||CM inspects secretariat works||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao inspected the progress of works on the construction of the new integrated secretariat complex on Tuesday. The Chief Minister, who participated in the Republic Day celebrations at Public Gardens in the morning, drove straight to the secretariat construction site. This was the CM’s first visit to the site after it was handed over to construction major Shapoorji Pallonji Group on November 16.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cm-inspects-secretariat-works/article33671374.ece
27 January 2021||January 27 2021 00:00 IST,||Saying it with lights||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/saying-it-with-lights/article33671440.ece
27 January 2021||Bengaluru,||Baiyappanahalli terminal to be ready by mid-Feb.||South Western Railway is hoping to complete pending works of the new Sir M. Visvesvaraya Terminal at Baiyyappanahalli by mid-February. The terminal is built on the lines of the one at Kempegowda International Airport and is being projected as a transport hub.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/baiyappanahalli-terminal-to-be-ready-by-mid-feb/article33671090.ece
27 January 2021||Mysuru,||‘Efforts being made for all-round development’||Minister for Cooperation S.T. Somashekar, who is also Minister in charge of Mysuru district, said efforts were being made for the all-round development of Mysuru. He was delivering an address at the 72nd Republic Day address at Bannimantap Grounds on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/efforts-being-made-for-all-round-development/article33671463.ece
27 January 2021||Bengaluru,||Parties give no-confidence motion notice||After the fiasco over the no-confidence motion moved against Legislative Council Chairman K. Prathapachandra Shetty in the winter session of the legislature, the BJP and JD(S) have given another notice to move the motion in the joint session, which will commence on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/parties-give-no-confidence-motion-notice/article33671464.ece
27 January 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi records 157 new COVID cases, 7 deaths||Delhi recorded 157 fresh COVID-19 cases over 24 hours, taking the tally to 6,34,229, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Tuesday. Also, seven more deaths were reported, pushing the toll to 10,820.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/delhi-records-157-new-covid-cases-7-deaths/article33671218.ece
27 January 2021||AYODHYA,||Dhannipur mosque project launched in U.P.||The Dhannipur mosque project was formally launched on Republic Day, with the unfurling of the Tricolour and a tree plantation drive at the five-acre plot here. The plot was allotted by the Uttar Pradesh government on the directions of the Supreme Court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/dhannipur-mosque-project-launched-in-up/article33671219.ece
27 January 2021||Ballia (U.P.),||Man arrested for ‘rape, attempted conversion’||A 22-year-old man was arrested here on Tuesday for allegedly raping a 14-year-old girl, making obscene videos of her and attempting to pressure her into religious conversion for marriage, the police said. The man’s father was also held. They have been charged with rape, unlawful conversion and under sections of the POCSO Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/man-arrested-for-rape-attempted-conversion/article33671220.ece
27 January 2021||BELAGAVI,||‘New laws will push farmers to the brink’||“The new farm laws will push farmers to the brink of disaster,” Babagouda Patil, farmer leader and former Union Minister said in Belagavi on Tuesday. The Union government is trying to push farmers to the brink of disaster and help its corporate friends in their quest for endless enrichment, Mr. Patil said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/new-laws-will-push-farmers-to-the-brink/article33671346.ece
27 January 2021||HUBBALLI,||‘State first in facilitating start-up companies’||Minister for Large and Medium Industries and Dharwad district in-charge Jagadish Shettar has said that the State has secured the top position in the country in facilitating setting up of and also ensuring smooth functioning of start-ups and, in Dharwad district alone the State government has provided funds for 15 such companies. He was delivering the 72nd Republic Day address at R.N. Shetty District Stadium in Dharwad on Tuesday, even as farmers and pro-farmers organisations along with members of different political parties took out tractor rallies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-first-in-facilitating-start-up-companies/article33671348.ece
27 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM/ KHAMMAM/ BENGALURU,||Tractors rumble across the South in solidarity||Tractors rumbled across Kerala, Karnataka, Telangana and parts of Tamil Nadu and protests were held on Tuesday in solidarity with the agitating farmers in Delhi. In Kerala, Left organisations organised rallies with tractors and farm implements reiterating the demand for repeal of the farm laws. A. Vijayaraghavan, convener, Left Democratic Front (LDF), who inaugurated a public meeting at the Martyrs Column in Thiruvananthapuram, urged the farmers not to back down until the “black laws” were repealed. “Initially the BJP government tried to silence the farmers. When that failed, the government is now trying to use force,” he said. The Modi government had misused Parliament to enact the laws and trample on farmers’ rights. The laws were intended to uproot the farmers from the soil, he said. Protest rallies were organised in all panchayats, municipalities and corporations in Kerala, Samyuktha Karshaka Samithi chairman, Sathyan Mokeri, said. Farmers were protesting since November 26 to prevent a corporate invasion of the nation’s farm sector, but the Modi government had done next to nothing to resolve the issue, he said at a public meeting. “The protesting farmers have not raised any new demands. They want the minimum support price and the mandi system to be retained. Even wealthy farmers have realised that corporates are the common enemy,” Mr. Mokeri said. Police action slammed At Khammam in Telangana, Left party cadres, the Congress and several farmers’ organisations took out a bike rally on Tuesday. Thousands of farmers across Karnataka protested the farm laws at parallel Republic Day parades – in some cases with their tractors. They called the occasion ‘Jana Ganarajya Divasa’, along the lines of the rally in New Delhi. Protests were held in Bengaluru, Mysuru, Mangaluru, Belagavi, Hubballi-Dharwad and Kalaburagi. Police had set up hurdles for tractor rallies in most cities, especially in Bengaluru and adjoining Chikkaballapur, Kolar and Ramanagaram districts. The police stopped tractors as they moved towards Bengaluru, leading to altercations and sit-in protests. Leaders alleged that the police had visited houses of farmers in Anekal and Doddaballapura, on the city’s outskirts, warning them not to join the protest with their tractors. Police allowed less than a hundred tractors into Bengaluru. Farmers held a symbolic tractor parade, entering the city through five entry points and congregating at Freedom Park in Bengaluru. Most of the protests saw the participation of not only farmers, but also Dalit, Left, labour and Kannada organisations. Farmer leader Kodihalli Chandrashekar addressed a meeting at Freedom Park where the rally culminated. Terming the protests across the country, especially in Delhi, as historic and a clear message to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, he said. “The violent turn the protest took is regrettable. But this is what happens when you test the patience of a community beyond limits. This country has fought hard to come out of the clutches of the East India Company, but now the Prime Minister seems keen to hand over the country to Ambani and Adani.” Opposing the recent stringent norms on cow slaughter, he said, “People from Basavanagudi and Jayanagar need not teach us about cows. We worship them, but a complete ban on their slaughter would be a burden on farmers.” Another farmer leader Chamarasa Malipatil described the farmers’ movement as a “second freedom movement” “The government seems to think it can effect widespread changes to our entire food culture by stealth, despite opposition from a large section of society,” he said.Centenarian freedom fighter H.S. Doreswamy, who presided over the rally at Freedom Park, said the farmers’ movement and the recent anti-CAA-NRC protests had instilled hope in him for the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tractors-rumble-across-the-south-in-solidarity/article33670988.ece
27 January 2021||New Delhi,||Tractor parades swerve into capital chaos||By 10 a.m., at Singhu, farmers breached the barricades at the other two border protest sites as well — Tikri on the west and Ghazipur on the east. Once tractors started deviating from the agreed routes and headed towards the capital’s Outer Ring Road, however, they were met with tear gas, water cannons and lathis, in tense stand-offs with the police. The road under the Nangloi flyover in western Delhi turned into a virtual battleground for much of the afternoon as the police resorted to several rounds of tear gas shelling in a futile attempt to stop the farmers, many armed with lathis, from violating the parade route. ‘Lost way’ In eastern Delhi, some farmers claimed they lost their way and blundered into the high-security ITO area, where they engaged in a violent clash with police, with tear gas, stone-throwing and lathicharge resulting in injuries on both sides. A few farmers in tractors tried to run down police personnel, while others went on a rampage damaging buses and police vehicles. One protester, 25-year-old Ranveet Singh, died after his tractor reportedly overturned, though other protesters alleged he was killed in police firing. By early afternoon, protesters had swarmed into the Red Fort grounds and hoisted the Nishan Sahib, a flag that flies over Sikh gurdwaras, and the flag of one of the farm unions on an empty flag post, even while the tricolour flew above the ramparts of the Fort. Late at night, the police snapped power supply to the Red Fort to clear it of protesters. Sukhdev Singh Korikala, general secretary of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU)-Ekta Ugrahan, one of the largest farm unions in Punjab, told The Hindu that the hoisting of a religious flag seemed an “attempt to instigate sentiments” and was done “at the behest of the BJP-led Central government to defame the farmers’ movement” with the “connivance of the police”. Flag hoisting He said video clips revealed that the flag hoisting was done in the presence of Deep Sidhu, a Punjabi actor and activist who had campaigned for a BJP candidate in 2019. Mr. Korikala claimed this exposed the government and vowed to continue the movement until the three laws are repealed. By 7.30 p.m., SKM leaders who had returned to their border protest sites issued a statement, calling off the parade and asking participants to get back to the border sites. “Despite all our efforts, some organisations and individuals violated the route and indulged in condemnable acts. Anti-social elements infiltrated the otherwise peaceful movement. We have always held that peace is our biggest strength, and that any violation would hurt the movement,” said the SKM statement, which also blamed the long struggle for the situation. “Protesting farmers breached the agreement and began their tractor march before the scheduled time. They chose the path of violence and vandalism, and seeing that the police had to take necessary steps to maintain law and order,” said a Delhi police statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tractor-parades-swerve-into-capital-chaos/article33671003.ece
27 January 2021||January 27 2021 00:00 IST,||How the farmers’ protest lost its way||There are different interpretations of the chaotic events that unfolded in parts of Delhi on Republic Day as farmers who have been camped at the Ghazipur border for over two months now entered the city, apparently in violation of the agreements between the police and farm union leaders. While some observers said the young farmers lost their way on the Delhi-Meerut Expressway in the absence of any barricades, others said the idea of going to the Red Fort has been brewing for some time among the younger protesters who grabbed the chance presented to them. Others also point out that a section of farmers, tired and restless of waiting at the border for more than 60 days now, wanted to make a larger point which the leadership failed to take into account. Senior sources in the Bhartiya Kisan Union felt hoisting the flag of a particular faith at the Red Fort was against the spirit of the protest movement and it would bring the farmers down from the high moral ground they had held vis-a-vis the government. The events have also raised questions on the leadership in charge of the protest at the Ghazipur border. Rajvir Singh, BKU State vice-president, said all was well in the morning and the farmers were supposed to take the route decided on Monday night after the official Rajpath parade was over. “But some of the farmers who had arrived in the last couple of days and were stationed on the flyover suddenly decided to start before the scheduled time after ostensibly they got information from the Singhu border to march towards Delhi. I admit some of our members were also among them and it is definitely a failure of our volunteers,” he said. He added many of them were not well versed with the exits on the expressway and in the absence of any police, kept driving and once they reached the ITO cut, realised it was an opportunity to drive to the Red Fort. Delhi police head constable Pradeep Kumar, posted at the Ghazipur post, said they didn’t have orders to stop tractors on Tuesday. “But the leaders failed to keep them on the route they agreed upon on Monday night,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/how-the-farmers-protest-lost-its-way/article33670998.ece
27 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Police retreat as barricades fall||Hundreds of farmers riding tractors and marching on foot broke away from the pre-set route for the “tractor parade” from the Tikri border to enter central Delhi on Tuesday, after several hours of pitched battle with the police. The road under the Nangloi flyover turned into a virtual battleground, witnessing clashes between farmers and the police for a large part of the day. The police resorted to several rounds of tear gas shelling to stop the farmers from deviating from the parade route before giving up after several hours of effort. Tensions began to build-up around noon after a handful of youth riding tractors refused to turn right from under the Nangloi flyover towards Baprola village on the pre-approved route and insisted on going towards the Peeragarhi Chowk. Initially, a dozen tractors in ones and twos managed to break through the barricades, but by evening, the farmers threw open all barriers to march ahead in large numbers. Chased by the protesters armed with lathis, the policemen were seen taking shelter in alleys in the surrounding colonies. The police also made a brief attempt to stop the farmers at Peeragarhi Chowk in the evening by parking Delhi Transport Corporation buses to block their way, but later removed them. As the evening wore on, a few farmers in tractors began returning to the Tikri border, turning Peeragarhi Chowk into a complete traffic mess. A large number of people, including women and children, were lined on both sides of the road leading to Peeragarhi Chowk from the Tikri border as well as the flyover over the junction to witness the parade, cheer the farmers and capture the moment on their mobile phones. “It is historic. So I brought both my children along to see it,” said Rakesh Bhardwaj on of the on-lookers. The crowd on the flyover waved and cheered the farmers as they went past the intersection. Many stopped the farmers to garland them, shower rose petalsand give water bottles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/police-retreat-as-barricades-fall/article33671000.ece
27 January 2021||New Delhi,||Opposition leaders flay violence||Opposition leaders condemned the violent turn the farmers’ movement took on Tuesday but blamed the Union government for “ignoring” the peaceful protest that went on for 65 days. West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee tweeted that she was deeply disturbed by the “worrying and painful developments” in Delhi. “Centre’s insensitive attitude and indifference towards our farmer brothers & sisters has to be blamed for this situation,” she said. She urged the Centre to engage with farmers and to repeal the laws. In a long tweet thread, CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury reiterated the demand for the immediate repeal of the three laws. “The situation has been brought to this pass by the Modi government. Farmers have been protesting peacefully in the cold for more than 60 days, not allowed to come into Delhi and more than 100 kisans are dead,” he said. “The protests are for a legitimate demand of millions of our farmers from various States across the country. That remains the issue at hand, and must be resolved. The solution is clear — repeal these farm laws,” he added. Pawar’s appeal NCP patriarch Sharad Pawar told presspersons that while nobody could support what happened on Tuesday, the reason for the events could not be ignored either. “The way the agitation was handled today is regrettable.” He appealed to the farmers to return to their villages to keep the dignity of the protest. CPI general secretary D. Raja said the violence was avoidable and had been condemned by farmers’ groups. At the same time, the government should be reasonable and realistic. Rashtriya Janata Dal spokesperson and Rajya Sabha member Manoj K. Jha hinted at possible sabotage. “There should be a proper investigation. I do not buy the fact that those who braved Delhi’s harsh winters for 65 days would resort to such hooliganism,” he said. CPI(ML) general secretary Dipankar Bhattacharya condemned the “police repression” against farmers during the tractor rally. “The Modi regime must not be allowed to spin a narrative blaming and demonising farmers,” he said in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/opposition-leaders-flay-violence/article33671005.ece
27 January 2021||January 27 2021 00:00 IST,||Padma awards and the political messaging||The Padma awards are not only an acknowledgement of achievers in many fields but also capture the zeitgeist of public life. This year’s awards list, peopled with performers, also has the shadow of coming Assembly polls hanging over it — a large number of awardees are from Tamil Nadu (11), Assam (nine), West Bengal (seven) and Kerala (six). Among those from Assam, the choice of Congress stalwart and former Chief Minister Tarun Gogoi stands out. The posthumous honour is being interpreted as the BJP’s attempt to reach out to the influential Ahom community in the politically crucial region of Upper Assam, which has 56 of the 126 Assembly seats. Known for its traditional support to the Congress, the Ahom community had endorsed the BJP in the 2016 Assembly election. But political equations have changed after the passage of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) in 2019, and the BJP may be worried about the prospect of an angry Upper Assam voter. So from distributing free land patta (title) by Prime Minister Narendra Modi recently in Upper Assam to honouring one of the tallest leaders from the region, the BJP is reaching out. Reacting to the honour for his father, Congress MP Gaurav Gogoi tweeted that even the harshest critics had to acknowledge him as an architect of modern Assam. “In the times to come, his legacy will be carried forward by lakhs of women and men. The people of Assam will always choose for harmony over hate, diversity over uniformity and prosperity over inequality. That would be the best tribute to Jana Neta Tarun Gogoi,” he said. In T.N., Bengal In both Tamil Nadu and West Bengal, the Modi government and the BJP are facing the charge of being a largely Delhi-based north Indian party, which is culturally not attuned to either the deep south or the east. These parts of the country take great pride in their cultural ethos. The selection of 11 awardees from Tamil Nadu, ranging from music artists to social workers and entrepreneurs such as Sridhar Vembu, is a subtle pointer that the Modi dispensation has the State firmly in mind. On the list from West Bengal, where the “outsider vs local” narrative is very much a part of the poll rhetoric, the awardees include Bengali cartoonist and illustrator Narayan Debnath, who holds the record for the longest running comics by an individual cartoonist, the Handa Bhonda series. The selection of cultural icons who are part of Bengal’s cultural life but not so much across the State lines is a reminder that the Modi government and the BJP are attuned to even parochial-level culturati. The political efficacy of such acknowledgement via state honours is always a question mark but it does demonstrate the political thinking and priorities of a particular time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/padma-awards-and-the-political-messaging/article33671010.ece
27 January 2021||YADADRI-BHUVANAGIRI,||He deserved the Param Vir Chakra: Galwan hero’s kin||Bikumalla Santoshi, Deputy Collector (Revenue) and wife of Galwan martyr Col. Santosh Babu, was honoured by officials and leaders at the 72nd Republic Day celebrations here on Tuesday. District Collector Anita Ramachandran, Bhongir MP Komatireddy Venkat Reddy and Alair legislator G. Sunitha joined to felicitate Ms Santoshi, remembering her husband’s martyrdom in the 2020 Indo-China skirmishes in Galwan valley in June, and the government’s posthumous recognition of the sacrifice with Maha Vir Chakra, the second-highest wartime gallantry award. In an emotional address, Ms. Santoshi said it was a proud moment for everyone — for the family, for Telangana State and the 16th Bihar Regiment. “I am sure his sacrifice and the recognition will motivate many people. My children are young; they will always feel proud of their father, and we will continue to carry on with this inspiration,” she concluded, thanking the government, as tears welled up in her eyes. In Suryapet, parents of Col. Santosh Babu, retired bank officer Upender and home-maker Manjula, expressed a half-hearted welcome of the Maha Vir Chakra recognition. They opined that their son deserved Param Vir Chakra, the highest wartime gallantry award, for the sacrifice. Mr. Upender said “Param Vir Chakra would have been more appropriate”, adding, “Santosh Babu’s team endured the harshest climate for some 13 months. They caused double the loss to Chinese troops in an undeclared war, erased the erstwhile opinion that India was inferior to China, and also inspired the youth of the country like never before, in the recent past.” Ms. Manjula recollected her reaction from June 15, when the family first learnt about the tragedy. “As a mother, I will always want my son to bag the first place. I am a little sad now that he was only recognised with Maha Vir Chakra for his supreme sacrifice,” she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/he-should-have-got-param-vir-chakra-galwan-martyrs-kin/article33670978.ece
27 January 2021||HYDERABAD,||KCR inspects secretariat works||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao inspected the progress of works on the construction of the new integrated secretariat complex on Tuesday. The Chief Minister, who participated in the Republic Day celebrations at Public Gardens in the morning, drove straight to the secretariat construction site. This was the Chief Minister’s first visit to the site after it was handed over to construction major Shapoorji Pallonji Group on November 16. He was accompanied by several ministers and senior officials led by Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar. Mr. Rao went round the construction site and interacted with the engineers as well as the representatives of the construction agency. He directed them to speed up the works and at the same time, initiated measures to maintain highest quality. Mr. Chandrasekhar Rao inspected works underway at the main entrance, other gates and the main building complex besides examining the designs of the new complex. It may be recalled that the government had dismantled the old secretariat complex spread over close to 25 acres and called for bids from competitive construction companies. The government had fixed a deadline of one year for completing construction of the complex with an estimated Rs. 616 crore. Earlier in the day, Mr. Rao hoisted the national flag at Pragati Bhavan and laid wreath at Veerula Sainik Smarak at Secunderabad before proceeding to Public Gardens, where he participated in the flag hoisting by Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kcr-inspects-secretariat-works/article33671406.ece
27 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Rubber estate owner held for electrocuting elephant||The tragic death of a wild elephant and her calf’s grief that evoked widespread sympathy in Kallar here in Kerala a few days ago took an unexpected turn on Tuesday when the owner of the rubber estate, where the carcass was found, confessed to having electrocuted the animal. Officials of the Palode forest range office arrested Rajesh, 45, for “premeditated murder”. The accused has purportedly confessed to hanging a metallic rope that he had connected to a switch board nearby. The rope, which he used to hang rubber sheets during the day time, would double up as an electric fence at night to “eliminate the menace of incursions by wild elephants” in his property. While the death had initially been viewed as one due to a pulmonary disease, forest officials sensed something amiss when Rajesh refused to provide statement in the case and had not returned to his house nearby since the incident came to light on Saturday. He finally turned up at the Palode forest range office on Tuesday and confessed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rubber-estate-owner-held-for-electrocuting-elephant/article33670994.ece
27 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Violence is not a solution to any problem, says Congress||As farmers’ tractor rally turned violent in Delhi on Tuesday, former Congress president Rahul Gandhi said violence is not a solution to any issue and urged the Union government to withdraw the three farm laws. In an official statement, the Congress said the confrontation between farmers and the government had been on for 61 days and it was not ‘healthy’ for democracy. Congress communication chief Randeep Surjewala said, “Prime Minister, Narendra Modi will have to leave ‘rajhath’ [royal stubborness] and walk on the path of ‘rajdharma’ (national duty). This is the true message of the 72nd Republic Day. All three anti-farming black laws have to be withdrawn without any delay.” Mr. Gandhi tweeted, “Violence is not a solution to any problem. If anyone is injured, the damage gets done to the country. In the interest of the nation, the farm laws should be taken back”. Party leader and Lok Sabha member Manish Tewari said, “What happened today in Delhi is most unfortunate & deserves to be condemned...” Posting a video of a protester trying to hoist a religious flag at one place within the Red Fort, Congress MP Shashi Tharoor said, “Most unfortunate. I have supported the farmers’ protests from the start but I cannot condone lawlessness. And on #RepublicDay no flag but the sacred tiranga should fly aloft the Red Fort”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/violence-is-not-a-solution-to-any-problem-says-congress/article33671004.ece
27 January 2021||New Delhi,||A ‘vertical charlie’ that wowed Rajpath spectators||The 72nd Republic Day parade happened in Rajpath in Delhi with fewer people, adhering social distancing, and even marching contingents wearing masks due to the COVID-19 pandemic. A major attraction was a “vertical charlie” manoeuvre by a single Rafale aircraft flying at a speed of 900 kmph, as part of the fly past, towards the end of the parade. People watched in awe as the Rafale aircraft flying horizontally from the Rashtrapati Bhavan side went vertical, while carrying out a series of rolls, and disappeared in the blue skies. In the past, the ‘vertical charlie’ manoeuvre was performed by an SU-30MKI aircraft. The parade, which happened with multi-layer security due to ongoing farmers’ agitation, was shorter in both length and duration. Unlike previous years, the parade ended at National Stadium instead of going till Red Fort. Stunts missing Stunts by motorcycle-borne men were missing and a parade of children who received bravery awards was also missing. Also, the spectator size was reduced to about 25,000 from around 1.25 lakh last year, due to the pandemic. Marching contingents of the Army, Navy, and Air Force were on display, but due to the pandemic the numbers were less. Also, a 122-member contingent of the Bangladesh armed forces took part in the parade for the first time. The tableau section started with one from the newly formed Union Territory of Ladakh, which highlighted the “Vision for Ladakh.” The parade started around 10 a.m. and ended at 11.45 a.m. On Tuesday, the Rafale omni-role fighter jet inducted into the Indian Air Force (IAF) last year made its debut at the fly past. One Rafale aircraft flew in formation with two Jaguar deep penetration strike aircraft and two MiG-29 air superiority fighters in ‘Vic’ formation at the height of 300 metres and a speed of 780 kmph. Another interesting aspect of the fly past was the flying together of Russian and American origin equipment in various formations. For instance, the Rakshak attack helicopter formation consisted of one Russian Mi-35 helicopter and four AH-64 Apache helicopters from the U.S. in ‘Vic’ formation. Similarly, the Sudarshan formation consisted of one U.S. origin Chinook heavy lift helicopter and two Russian Mi-17 IV Helicopters.  In another, the Garuda formation comprised one C-17 Globemaster transport aircraft with two MiG-29s and two Su-30 MKI aircraft Russian fighter jets. At the end of the fly past, the single Rafale, piloted by Group Captain Harkirat Singh, Commanding Officer of 17 Squadron with Squadron Leader Kislaykant, did the ‘Vertical Charlie’ manoeuvre.  (With inputs from   Saurabh Trivedi and   Dinakar Peri)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/a-vertical-charlie-that-wowed-the-crowd/article33671019.ece
27 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Petition in Supreme Court seeks guidelines for electronic media||The Supreme Court has decided to examine a petition seeking the framing of guidelines outlining the broad regulatory paradigm within which the right to free speech of broadcasters and electronic media can be judicially regulated. The plea filed by Pune residents Nilesh Navalakha and Nitin Memane has also sought the setting up of an independent Media Tribunal to hear and expeditiously adjudicate complaints against “media businesses” filed by viewers and citizens. A Bench, led by Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde, has issued notices to the Centre, Press Council of India, News Broadcasters Federation, News Broadcasters Standards Authority and Press Trust of India. The plea wants the court to consider substantial questions of law, including whether the electronic media enjoys greater freedom than ordinary citizens and whether they could only be subject to self-regulation. It has questioned whether free speech entails misinformation, fake news, hate speech, propaganda, paid news, communal and derogatory reportage, incitement and so on. It has asked whether regulation will amount to curtailment of the Press if done within the parameters specified under “reasonable restrictions” of Article 19(2) of the Constitution. The plea said right to life and dignity envisaged the right of citizens to “free, fair and proportionate media reporting”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/petition-in-supreme-court-seeks-guidelines-for-electronic-media/article33671018.ece
27 January 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,||Kerala traders mourn passing of street dog||Traders at the College Junction in Manakkala, Pathanamthitta, have been in mourning for the past few days. They lost a key member of their family in a road accident last Thursday — Remani, a street dog that had endeared itself to them over more than four years. In an amazing display of man-animal bonding, they have now erected posters all across the street condoling her death. According to Aby K.P., who runs a book stall by the street, this was natural. People express grief when someone they love has passed away. “Remani deserved this display of affection as she was one among us,” he explained. The stray dog had been abandoned in the neighbourhood by officials of the Erathu Panchayat after its sterilisation. She quickly became friendly with everyone. So much so that people used to compete with each other to feed her every day. “Remani guarded our shops from anti-socials during the nights. She used to give me company whenever I had to work late hours,” recalled Pradeep Palara, who runs a tyre workshop. Having witnessed Remani’s final moments, he is yet to recover from the shock of the beloved pet being run over by two vehicles back to back. “I only looked once and instantly turned away. We could not do anything to save her, and so decided to give her a farewell this way.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kerala-traders-mourn-passing-of-street-dog/article33670990.ece
27 January 2021||AYODHYA,||Dhannipur mosque project launched in U.P.||The Dhannipur Mosque Project was formally launched on Republic Day, with the unfurling of the tricolour and a tree plantation drive at the five-acre plot in Dhannipur village here. The plot was allotted by the Uttar Pradesh government on the directions of the Supreme Court in the Babri Masjid Ram Janmabhoomi title suit.  The members of the Indo-Islamic Cultural Foundation (IICF), which is overseeing the construction of the mosque, assembled at the place around 8.30 a.m. After a brief Republic Day ceremony, conducted in the presence of police personnel, IICF chief trustee Zufar Faruqi planted the first sapling, a tamarind tree, followed by other members to mark the symbolic and low-key start to the project in the one-third area of the plot that will be developed as a green patch. IICF secretary Athar Hussain said the “green inauguration” was chosen due to the “practicality”as an old shrine already existed in one portion of the plot and the area around it would be developed as a green patch. The other reason was to send a message of environmental awareness. “We have serious concern for climate change,” Mr. Hussain told The Hindu . As the river Ghagra flows close to the village, soil samples were collected for testing. The organisers were awaiting 12-A and 80-G clearance of the Income Tax Act and permission for opening an FCRA (Foreign Contributions Regulation Act) account and the necessary green light for the plan from the local development authority before the actual construction began, said Mr. Hussain. The project would take around 30 months to complete, he added. The project comprise three parts: a mosque based on a modern design; a multi-speciality 200-bed hospital and community kitchen; and an Indo Islamic Cultural Research Centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/dhannipur-mosque-project-launched-in-up/article33671021.ece
27 January 2021||January 27 2021 00:00 IST,||We are ready to continue talks, says Centre||The Minister said the government presented agitating farmers a compromise deal by agreeing to suspend the operation of laws, but they had rejected it. “It was a perfect opportunity that was rejected by farmer unions,” the top government source said.“The laws would have been suspended one-and-half years and after that we would have seen what would happen,” the source added, hinting that the farm laws might remain non-operational beyond that period too.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/we-are-ready-to-continue-talks-says-centre/article33670983.ece
27 January 2021||January 27 2021 00:00 IST,||Farm leaders blame ‘anti-social elements’||“Some rogue criminal elements are causing the problem. There is a conspiracy to give a bad name to farmers,” Mr. Mollah told The Hindu , noting that protesting farmers have conducted a peaceful agitation for the last seven months since the three laws were initially brought in as ordinances. The SKM noted that peaceful protests had been held in many parts of the country on Tuesday, including tractor parades in Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Telangana, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, West Bengal and Bihar. Even in Delhi, the majority of tractors stuck to the agreed routes, while thousands of others were not even able to leave the protest sites. “If you look all across the country, there may be over a crore people on the streets. There are a few hundred who are breaking rules here. The Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee are not a main part of the movement,” said Mr. Mollah. “Someone who is breaking the rules like this, causing disturbance, actually helps the government to win, and they cannot be called part of the movement... Putting up a flag at Red Fort was never the aim for farmers,” he added. BKU-Tikait leader Rakesh Tikait, who led the group on the Ghazipur border blamed the prolonged struggle for more than six months, and the protests of more than two months on the borders of Delhi as a reason for the situation. He also blamed the Delhi police for the farmers’ initial deviation from the agreed route, saying that because barricades were not placed at the right locations, tractors got lost and accidentally wandered into Delhi. “As a result, undesirable elements and some organisations got a chance and tried their best to disrupt this parade. BKU disassociates itself from those involved in this act,” he said. At the Shahjahanpur border, where the parade ran smoothly, Swaraj Abhiyan leader Yogendra Yadav initially posted a video pleading with protesters in the city not to tarnish the movement. Later in the evening, he said he would take responsibility. “Being a part of the protest, I feel ashamed of the way things proceeded and I take responsibility of it,” he told a television channel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/farm-leaders-blame-anti-social-elements/article33670992.ece
27 January 2021||New Delhi,||Internet suspended under rarely used Act||The Union Home Ministry on Tuesday issued orders to suspend Internet in some areas in Delhi under a rarely used provision of a British-era Act. The order issued under the Temporary Suspension of Telecom Services (Public Emergency or Public Safety Rules 2017) of the Indian Telegraph Act, 1885, had been issued only twice before — in Delhi on December 19 and 20, 2019, at the height of the protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act. The rules framed in 2017 empower the Union Home Secretary and a State’s Home Secretary to pass directions to suspend the telecom services, including the Internet, “due to public emergency or public safety.” More forces in Delhi Home Minister Amit Shah held a 90-minute meeting at his residence to discuss the law and order situation in the city. “It was decided that extra paramilitary forces will be deployed in Delhi,” a senior official said. Mr. Shah skipped the at-home hosted by the President.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/internet-suspended-under-rarely-used-act/article33671007.ece
27 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Statue of Govind Ballabh Pant gets a new home||A statue of freedom fighter Govind Ballabh Pant that was removed from the Parliament premises recently would be unveiled at its new location, a roundabout opposite Gurdwara Rakab Ganj on Pandit Pant Marg here on Wednesday, officials said on Tuesday. As part of the project to construct a new Parliament building, the Central Public Works Department is relocating the statues of prominent leaders from the current Parliament building. Recently, the iconic statue of Mahatma Gandhi opposite the main entrance of the Parliament House was relocated to near the Speaker’s entrance, according to the CPWD. The Housing and Urban Affairs Ministry and the CPWD have planned a “garlanding” ceremony for the statue of G.B. Pant on Wednesday. Former Lok Sabha MP and chairperson of the G.B. Pant Memorial Society, Ila Pant, and HUA Minister Hardeep Puri will attend the event. A CPWD official said the roundabout would be the permanent location for the statue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/statue-of-govind-ballabh-pant-gets-a-new-home/article33671014.ece
27 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||In the footsteps of the legendary Muktijoddhas||As New Delhi and Dhaka celebrate the 50th anniversary of the 1971 Liberation War, a 122-member tri-service contingent of Bangladesh marched on Rajpath at the Republic Day parade. It had soldiers drawn from the units of that year. “The majority of the soldiers in this contingent hail from the most distinguished units of the Bangladesh Army comprising 1, 2, 3, 4, 8, 9, 10 and 11 East Bengal Regiment and 1, 2 and 3 Field Artillery Regiment. These units have the distinct honour of fighting and winning the Liberation War,” an official said. The contingent, led by Lt. Col. Abu Mohammed Shahnoor Shawon and his deputies, Lieutenant Farhan Ishraq and Flight Lieutenant Sibat Rahman, carried with it the legacy of legendary Muktijoddhas of Bangladesh, their forefathers who fought against oppression, mass atrocities by tyrannical forces and for the freedom of Bangladesh, the official stated. The Bangladesh Navy had successfully conducted “Operation Jackpot” during the war, destroying 26 enemy ships in sea ports and river ports. The Bangladesh Air Force conducted 50 successful strikes on the enemy targets as part of “Kilo Flight” from the base in Dimapur, India. The contingent arrived in Delhi on an Indian Air Force (IAF) aircraft on January 12 and was quarantined till January 19, after which they began practising for the parade. The contingent is scheduled to visit places of historic significance in Agra and Ajmer on January 28 and 29 before their departure on January 30 Coinciding with the diamond jubilee of the 1971 war and also 50 years of the establishment of ties, New Delhi and Dhaka have agreed to hold a series of commemorative events throughout the year. It is these fraternal ties between the two countries that make the relations transcend even a strategic partnership. Evocative moment As a decorated veteran, many off whose colleagues’ blood are mixed with the soil and waters of Bangladesh, seeing a contingent of an independent Bangladesh Army marching down Rajpath was a very emotional and evocative moment for Maj. Chandrakant Singh, VrC and author of Cavalier in the Sky ( biography of war icon Air Vice Marshal Chandan Singh). “For me to see the Bangladesh Army leading our Republic Day parade on Rajpath was a heart-warming experience, because 50 years ago, my battalion, 4 Guards, paraded before ‘Bangabandhu’ Shiekh Mujibur Rahman on March 12, 1972 to commemorate the return to Indians after the successful completion of our mission,” Maj. Singh said. In 2017, when Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina honoured Indian soldiers who took part in the war during her visit to India, Maj. Singh said, he presented a photograph of ‘Bangabandhu’ taking the salute of their unit’s parade in Dhaka in 1972.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/in-the-footsteps-of-the-legendary-muktijoddhas/article33671016.ece
27 January 2021||Hyderabad,||Ryots fighting for the rights of all citizens: Brinda Karat||“A historic farmers’ march is underway on the streets of Delhi. Farmers are not fighting for their rights but for the rights of all citizens of the Republic,” said CPI-M leader Brinda Karat in the city on Tuesday, while speaking on ‘Indian Constitution and Emerging Challenges’. “Once the Agriculture Market Produce Committee is dismantled, food security will be destroyed for the poor. Laws that protected workers are being dismantled. What is this fixed-term employment take it or leave it option?” asked Ms. Karat as she analysed various policy changes over the past few years. “An attempt is being made to destroy the achievements of the freedom struggle. A blatant and naked attempt to destroy the Republic as we know it is happening now; word by word, leaf by leaf, practice by practice,” said Ms. Karat as she listed out various policy interventions from the amendment to citizenship laws to ‘love jihad’. She added, “The ruling class has an alliance with patriarchy. The notion of ‘love jihad’ taps into the culture of patriarchy but is an assault on the Constitution and civil liberties. It violates Article 25 of Constitution, which guarantees freedom of religion to all Indians.” She spoke of the number of persons jailed in Uttar Pradesh and how the law was being copied by other states. “We must also remember the people of India who stand up in defence of the constitutional values of equality, secularism and democracy. We must choose which side we are on,” she said. The CPI-M leader on Tuesday asked the students in the audience to build solidarities and networks instead of indulging in self-glorification of selfies and moments with leaders. “Master the tools of tech. Share them in your groups, reach out to those who are not with us,” she said in her hour-long lecture organised by the Students’ Federation of India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/farmers-fighting-for-the-rights-of-all-citizens-brinda-karat/article33671094.ece
27 January 2021||HYDERABAD,||‘Serial killer’ who targeted women held||An alleged serial killer, whose primary victims were women, was apprehended in Telangana, police said on Tuesday. The accused, Maina Ramulu (45), is a stone cutter and resident of Borabanda. According to Hyderabad Commissioner of Police Anjani Kumar, Ramulu was arrested in connection with 21 cases, of which 16 are under the ‘murder for gain’ category. The apprehension of Ramulu led to the detection of two murders, that of Kavala Venkatamma (50), a resident of Venkatagiri in Jubilee Hills, and of an unidentified woman. “He was married at an early age after which his wife escaped. It created some mental impact [on the accused],” Mr. Kumar said, adding all his victims were women. The cases include those allegedly committed in Toopran, Raidurgam, Dundigal, Narsapur, Narsingi and Sangareddy Rural. He is also involved in property offences. Police said that while the accused was sentenced to life by a local court in 2011 in connection with a murder case registered at the Narsingi police station, he managed to escape along with five others while they were being treated at the Institute of Mental Health, Erragadda. A case was registered at the S.R. Nagar police station. After his escape, the accused allegedly committed five murders for gain in Bowenpally, Chandanagar and Dundigal police station limits. The accused allegedly confessed to murdering an unidentified victim who he met in December last year in a toddy compound.In the same month, he allegedly met the other victim, Kavala Venkatamma at the Yousufguda toddy compound. He allegedly took her to Ankushapur village where they consumed liquor. The accused then picked up an argument with her and allegedly smashed her head with a boulder and fled the scene.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/serial-killer-who-targeted-women-held/article33670995.ece
27 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Protests at Red Fort condemned||Union Culture Minister Prahlad Singh Patel on Tuesday condemned the actions of protesting farmers at the Red Fort, after they entered the monument and hoisted the flag of their movement and the Sikh flag Nishan Sahib. In a tweet, Mr. Patel said the Red Fort was a symbol of dignity of “our democracy” and that the protesters should have stayed away from it. Terming the incidents sad and unfortunate, he said he condemned the violation of dignity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/protests-at-red-fort-condemned/article33671001.ece
27 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||41 security personnel injured||A total of 41 security personnel sustained injuries when they jumped from a height of 20 feet into a drain to save their lives when violence broke out on the Red Fort premises on Tuesday, the Delhi police said. A senior police officer said an adequate number of security personnel were deployed to prevent the protesters from entering the Red Fort but they were outnumbered by the protesters. “We just prevented the protesters from entering the Red Fort and they turned violent. They attacked security personnel with iron rods, sticks and threw stones at them. Many police personnel received injuries after they jumped into the drain on the periphery of the Red Fort. They were rushed to a hospital,” a police officer said. At Lal Qila, the protesters broke the gates and entered the wells of the Red Fort. A section of the crowd also managed to hoist their organisation’s flag. The Delhi police managed to remove the crowd from the ramparts and the vicinity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/41-security-personnel-injured/article33671047.ece
27 January 2021||New Delhi,||One dead, 83 injured in clashes||One farmer died as his tractor overturned and 83 police personnel and many farmers were injured in clashes between them at several places during a tractor parade in the national capital on Tuesday. Scores of tear gas shells were fired at the Delhi-Meerut Expressway, ITO, Singhu border, Nangloi, Peeragarhi, near the Red Fort and other places to disperse crowds. The police appealed to them to stick to the designated route for the rally and not take law in their hands. Police Commissioner S.N. Shrivastava said public property had been damaged and many policemen received injuries in the violence. He appealed to the protesting farmers not to indulge in violence, maintain peace and return through the designated routes. The police filed four FIRs for damaging public property and attacking police personnel in the Delhi area. In a statement, the police said, “The Delhi police showed resistance till the very end but protesting farmers breached the agreement and began their tractor march before the scheduled time.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/farmer-dies-as-tractor-overturns/article33671008.ece
27 January 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Chief Minister orders high alert in Punjab||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh termed as unacceptable the violence perpetrated by certain elements during the tractor rally in Delhi on Tuesday and urged all genuine farmers to immediately vacate Delhi and return to the borders, where they had been protesting peacefully for the past two months. The Chief Minister ordered a high alert in the State amid the tension and violence in Delhi and directed Director General of Police Dinkar Gupta to ensure that law and order in the State is not disturbed at any cost. Expressing grave concern over the situation, he said the violence was apparently triggered by some people who violated the rules laid down for the tractor march through mutual agreement between the Delhi police and the farmer unions. He said major farmer leaders had dissociated themselves from the violence. The agitating farmers should immediately vacate the capital and get back to their camps and continue to engage with the Centre to resolve the crisis over the farm laws.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/chief-minister-orders-high-alert-in-punjab/article33671006.ece
27 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Law student flags SC on Red Fort event||A Mumbai University law student on Tuesday wrote to Chief Justice of India Sharad A. Bobde to take suo motu cognisance of certain persons flying a flag of a particular community at the Red Fort amid a rally organised by farmers on the Republic Day. “On the occasion of the Republic Day, above the Red Fort of Delhi, the way the flag of another community has been waved in place of the national flag, hurting the honour and dignity of the country, is a shameful event,” the letter by Ashish Rai said. Mr. Rai wrote that the tractor rally event has been “terrorised by some antisocial elements”. The letter said public property has been damaged. The heritage, Red Fort, has been “tampered with”. The national flag has been insulted. The “country’s devotional spirit has been hurt”. “The whole country is hurt by this incident,” the letter said. Mr. Rai requested the CJI to form a Special Investigation Committee to conduct a “rigorous inquiry against the antisocial elements involved in the unconstitutional activity, so as to punish the accused”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/law-student-flags-sc-on-red-fort-event/article33671221.ece
27 January 2021||January 27 2021 00:00 IST,||Violence under check in J&K, says L-G||Security forces had “effectively controlled violence” in Jammu and Kashmir, Lieutenant-Governor Manoj Sinha said in his Republic Day speech in Jammu on Tuesday. Mobile Internet service was snapped as a “security measure” and Republic Day celebrated under tight security across the Kashmir Valley. “Those who were trying to fulfil their political motives with the help of the proxy war are being given a befitting reply. We want to assure all citizens that the political conspiracies and nefarious designs of a neighbouring country will never be allowed to succeed in this land of great persons and warriors,” Mr. Sinha said. He termed the “successful and violence-free” District Development Council polls “one of the biggest achievements of the government”. “For a long time, the citizens of J&K were denied grassroots democracy. We have been successful in conducting a violence free, free and fair DDC elections. The high turnout of voters broke the records of many previous elections,” he said. “We assure all the elected representatives that with your support, the J&K administration will bring the fruits of development”.  In Srinagar, Baseer Ahmed Khan, adviser to the Lt. Governor, presided over the function at the Sher-i-Kashmir Cricket Stadium.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/violence-under-check-in-jk-says-l-g/article33671022.ece
27 January 2021||Kolkata,||Trinamool MLA quits two party posts||The Trinamool Congress on Tuesday issued a show-cause notice to Uttarpara MLA Prabir Kumar Ghosal after he resigned from two party posts in Hoogly district. The journalist-turned-politician had failed to turn up at Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee’s meeting in the district on Monday. Mr. Ghosal held a press conference on Tuesday and said there was a conspiracy to defeat him in the upcoming Assembly poll. He added that there were a few “rotten fruits” in the party who should be removed or else the party would suffer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/trinamool-mla-quits-two-party-posts/article33671049.ece
27 January 2021||Kozhikode,||Case against NRI for abusive comment on social media||Police have filed a case in Kozhikode district of Kerala against a non-resident Indian for writing abusive comments below a picture of BJP State president K. Surendran and his daughter, posted in the social media recently. According to sources, it is based on a complaint filed by V.K. Sajeevan, party Kozhikode district unit president.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/case-against-nri-for-abusive-comment-on-social-media/article33670991.ece
27 January 2021||New Delhi,||Modi dons special turban from Jamnagar at R-Day||Prime Minister Narendra Modi wore a special turban from Gujarat’s Jamnagar at the 72nd Republic Day parade at Rajpath, continuing his tradition of donning unique headgears. The ‘halari paghdi’ (royal turban) in shades of red with yellow dots was gifted to the Prime Minister by the royal family of Jamnagar. Mr. Modi paired the turban with a traditional kurta, pyjama, grey jacket along with a face mask.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/modi-dons-special-turban-from-jamnagar-at-r-day/article33671012.ece
27 January 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Republic Day celebrated first time in decades in Maoist bastion in Odisha||The 72nd Republic Day was a double delight for the people in Odisha’s Malkangiri district. For the first time in five decades, Republic Day was celebrated in two panchayats in Swabhiman Anchal (previously known as Cut-Off area), which was earlier controlled by the outlawed CPI (Maoist). In the past one year, security forces have strengthened their presence in Swabhiman Anchal by laying roads despite stiff resistance from the left wing extremists. The Jadambo area was sort of a capital for them in Swabhiman Anchal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/republic-day-celebrated-first-time-in-decades-in-maoist-bastion-in-odisha/article33671013.ece
27 January 2021||Guwahati,||Nagaland Governor takes aim at NSCN faction in R-Day speech||Nagaland Governor R.N. Ravi on Tuesday said “unrealistic intransigence of some people, who are unwilling to forsake the politics by gun”, has undermined the Centre’s political initiatives to resolve the Naga issue. Mr. Ravi, also the Centre's interlocutor for the Naga peace talks, said in his Republic Day speech that the people of Nagaland have not been able to reap optimum benefit of various progressive government schemes as “some extra constitutional entities in the guise of espousing the Naga national cause” have kept peace and progress at bay.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nagaland-governor-takes-aim-at-nscn-faction-in-r-day-speech/article33671017.ece
27 January 2021||Ariyalur,TAMIL NADU||Public hearing postponed||A public hearing, scheduled to be held at Reddypalayam on Thursday by the Ramco Cement Ltd for expanding its limestone mines, has been postponed. Collector D. Rathna said in a press release that the postponement was in view of Thursday (January 28) being a public holiday on account of Thai Poosam. A fresh notification would be released shortly, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/public-hearing-postponed/article33671288.ece
27 January 2021||Bengaluru,TAMIL NADU||Sasikala to be released from prison today||Expelled AIADMK leader V.K. Sasikala will be officially released from the Central Jail in Parappana Agrahara on Wednesday, where she served a jail term in corruption case. Ms. Sasikala’s counsel, advocate N. Raja Senthoor Pandian, visited the prison office and submitted the requisition to complete required formalities. However, as she is currently at Victoria Hospital where she is being treated for COVID-19, after having contracted the virus last week, officials from the prison department are likely to complete the release formalities at the hospital itself. “She was hospitalised after she reported symptoms of breathlessness and fever. As she has not been discharged, we will come to the hospital to hand over the sentence completion certificate and release her after getting the signature. This will most likely happen by Wednesday afternoon,” said a senior prison official. The sentence completion certificate issued by the prison department is to ensure that she is no longer in the custody of prison officials. He added that once the formalities are completed, the escort security from the prison will be withdrawn, which symbolises that she is free. That said, she will still get police protection. “The Bengaluru city police will continue to extend security cover to her till further orders. Though officially Ms. Sasikala will not be in any police custody, the security cover is to ensure her safety,” sources said. It is unclear yet whether Ms. Sasikala will remain at Victoria Hospital where she is being treated or be admitted into another hospital. “Her family members who have camped outside the hospital are eagerly waiting to meet her. But so far, prison officials have not allowed anyone to meet her. There are two rounds of security cover,” said a source close to the family. After the release, the family members will seek the advice of doctors treating her to decide on what next. When contacted, Smitha Segu, COVID-19 nodal officer in Victoria Hospital, told The Hindu that she is not ready to be discharged. “We have not yet planned for her discharge as she is just out of ICU and on intermittent oxygen. She is being treated as per COVID-19 protocols,” said Ms. Smitha. A health bulletin by the BMCRI on Tuesday reported that she was asymptomatic. “She is conscious, alert and well-oriented,” the report stated. Her oxygen saturation level was 98% with two litres of oxygen. “She is stable and comfortable, taking oral food and walking with support,” said the bulletin.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sasikala-to-be-released-from-prison-today/article33671133.ece
27 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Corpn. to launch web portal for pet licences||The Greater Chennai Corporation will launch an online pet dog registration system on April 1 for better monitoring post-COVID-19. Currently, less than 15% of the 10,000 pet dogs in the city have obtained licences from the Corporation. Residents who obtain licences for their pet dogs would get anti-rabies vaccine from pet clinics for free, said an official. Officials pointed out the risk of rabies for pet dogs because of the large number of rodents reaching residential areas from spaces with a lot of greenery. “Pet dogs may get infected because of a bite from rodents. Residents have to be careful. Residents who get licences from the Corporation will get anti-rabies vaccine every year for their pet dogs. This will reduce the risk of rabies infection. Many residents do not get anti-rabies vaccine for their pet dogs every year,” an official said. The Corporation veterinary officials will help pet owners get vaccination at centres before issuing licences online. According to estimates, around 75% of the pet owners depend on private veterinary clinics for anti-rabies vaccine. Many do not get licences because of the difficulty of the process. Many were not aware of the Rs. 50 fee collected yearly for pet licences, officials said. The online system is expected to create awareness on various aspects of the risks associated with owning pets. The new system is expected to facilitate better monitoring of civic issues reported by residents in each neighbourhood. For instance, the civic body will monitor complaints from residents about pet dogs that show aggressive behaviour in any residential area. Residents have registered around 1,000 complaints pertaining to aggressive behaviour of community dogs this month in the city’s 15 zones. Of these, a number of complaints were regarding pet dogs that roam the streets. In 2019-20, 12,000 dogs were sterilised at the centres of the Corporation, Blue Cross and the Society For The Prevention Of Cruelty To Animals. However, in 2020, owing to COVID-19, just 6,000 dogs were sterilised due to the lack of NGO members, officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corpn-to-launch-web-portal-for-pet-licences/article33671158.ece
27 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||MTC exploring alternative routes to improve occupancy||T. Sadagopan has to change three buses to reach Porur from Pattabhiram every day. To make it easy for commuters like him, the Metropolitan Transport Corporation (MTC) has started exploring viable alternative routes. This is expected to help passengers travel to suburbs without breaking their journey and also improve occupancy in buses. “It will be helpful if there is a direct bus to Porur as many travel to the hospital from the western suburbs. This has been a struggle for over a decade,” Mr. Sadagopan said. Prior to the pandemic, close to 33 lakh passengers used to travel by MTC buses daily. Now, the number has dropped to 19 lakh a day. At least close to 1.4 lakh bus passes used to be issued every month. Even that number has dropped to 50,000. This drop in patronage is attributed to schools and colleges remaining closed and IT employees working from home. Besides, people are avoiding buses due to social distancing concerns. “The occupancy rate is around 60%. A meeting was convened by C. Samayamoorthy, Transport Secretary, recently and he asked the transport corporations to identify viable alternative routes both within the city and in the suburbs. We have started identifying routes where there is a demand, but where the frequency is low or where there are no buses,” a senior transport official said.  He said priority was given to extended areas. “One of the routes is Poonamallee to Walajabad through Outer Ring Road. This will help people reach places like Oragadam and Paddapai easily. We have demand for operations between Koyambedu and Orgadam,” an official saud. Officials are studying the feasibility of operations on both Inner Ring Road and Outer Ring Road. “Since IT companies are closed, we are trying to assess the demand for certain routes on the stretch and divert some buses to other unconnected areas,” the official said. Even short routes within the city are under study. “There are many smaller routes, off the arterial roads, which are presently not catered to. We are studying such routes,” the official added. M. Somasundaram, consumer activist who used to attend quarterly meetings between the Voluntary Consumer Organisation and the MTC, said the transport corporation was focusing on routes catered to by trains in the past. “As train services have been minimised with several restrictions, buses are being operated on these routes to fetch more revenue. A few of the routes are Broadway to Avadi, Tiruvallur to Broadway, T. Nagar to Mamallapuram and Avadi to Tambaram. The frequency is good. Even deluxe buses are halting at all bus stops. Due to this the number of people buying Rs. 1,000 passes will increase,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mtc-exploring-alternative-routes-to-improve-occupancy/article33671163.ece
27 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM gives away Anna gallantry medals||A schoolteacher who risked her life to save her students from an explosion, a veterinary surgeon who rescued an elephant that plunged into a 60-ft-deep well, a loco pilot who noticed boulders on railway tracks and saved his passengers and a cab driver who acted swiftly to save the life of an injured policeman were awarded the prestigious Anna Medal for Gallantry, during the Republic Day celebrations on Tuesday. Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami handed over the medals to the recipients, in the presence of Governor Banwarilal Purohit, Madras High Court Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and other dignitaries. The Anna Medal for Gallantry (given to government servants and the general public) carries a cheque of Rs. 1 lakh, a medal worth Rs. 9,000 and a certificate. On January 29, 2020, P. Mullai, a teacher at the Pulivalam Government High School in Sholinghur, Ranipet district, smelled the strong odour of LPG in the neighbourhood. Disregarding her personal safety, she guided her students to safety. “But her selflessness ended in misfortune, as LPG exploded in the neighbourhood, collapsing a wall adjacent to the school and injuring her,” read her citation. She saved 26 students, but had to be admitted to a hospital and was very critical. She recovered eventually. Forest veterinary assistant surgeon A. Prakash was involved in the rescue of an elephant that fell into a 60-ft-deep well on November 19, 2020. The rescue lasted for over 18 hours. When the rescued elephant charged at the people unexpectedly, Mr. Prakash followed the animal and gave it an anaesthetic drug with his bare hands, realising that there was no time left for loading the tranquilliser gun. Loco pilot J. Suresh of Vaigai Express noticed the train was approaching boulders on the tracks, that had come down due to a landslide on November 18, 2020. Despite inclement weather and poor visibility, he stopped the train immediately, saving the lives of over 1,500 passengers on board. R. Pugazendiran, from the Nilgiris, saved the life of an injured policeman, after a tree fell on the latter on August 5, 2020. “Mr. Pugazendiran reached the spot quickly with his vehicle and rushed the injured police constable to the nearest hospital. The police constable was saved,” his citation read. Inspector T. Magudeeswari of the prohibition enforcement wing, St. Thomas Mount, Sub-Inspector N. Selvaraju of the Central Investigation Unit in Salem, head constable S. Shunmuganathan of the Srivilliputhur Taluk police station in Virudhunagar district and head constable S. Rajasekaran of the Kilkodungalur police station in Tiruvannamalai district received the Gandhi Adigal Police Medal. The medal is given to personnel attached to the Tamil Nadu police, who have undertaken outstanding work in curtailing illicit liquor. The award carries a sum of Rs. 40,000. Police stations in Salem town, Tiruvannamalai town and Kotturpuram in Chennai were named the top three stations. K.A. Abdul Jabbar received the Kottai Ameer Communal Harmony Award.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-gives-away-anna-gallantry-medals/article33671141.ece
27 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Speaking the language of the customer||Valliamma, who sells colourful beads in Mamallapuram for a livelihood, is keen to make her trade lively for tourists. Speaking in multiple languages — fluent English, Tamil, Hindi, a little French, Italian and German — is her strength, and she has not stopped despite the dullness brought on by the lockdown. “I could not study after Class 5. I started to sell beads from the age of 10. Foreigners stayed in hotels here, and I used to try and talk to them in English saying, ‘Sir, want some beads, marbles and red coral?’. If I did not know how to ask something, I used to ask them to teach me English. That is how I slowly learned the language,” the 24-year-old said. Residing in Pooncheri, Valliamma, also the mother of a three-year-old boy, said she managed to pick up words from foreign tourists. “I can greet tourists in French and Italian. In French, I say ‘ bonsoir ’ or ‘ ça va ’. I mainly learned to say the cost of the beads in these languages so that it helped me communicate with them,” she said. When she saw Indian tourists, she spoke according to the State from where they came. “I speak to tourists in Hindi, Tamil, Telugu, Malayalam and also in English. Some of them are surprised to see me, a woman from the Narikuravar community, speaking in fluent English,” she added. But not all is well for people like her who rely on tourists to make a livelihood. Valliamma said her business was badly hit during the COVID-19 pandemic and the subsequent lockdown. “We used to travel to Agra and Delhi by train to purchase stones. Mamallapuram gained more popularity after the visit of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. However, sales were hit due to COVID-19 and the lockdown. We had no business after the lockdown and stayed at home for nine months,” she added. She said a few persons from Chennai distributed groceries such as rice, oil and dal to a number of families, including her, helping them during the lockdown. “Sales were good when we had an inflow of foreign tourists. It has been picking up slowly in the last one month. I earn Rs. 200 to Rs. 300 in a day, but on some days I earn nothing . It will take at least two years for business to return to normal,” she said.   Some of the tourists are surprised to see me, a woman from the Narikuravar community, speaking in fluent English||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/speaking-the-language-of-the-customer/article33671340.ece
27 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Governor leads the Republic Day celebrations||Governor Banwarilal Purohit unfurled the National Flag at the Marina beach front on Tuesday, as part of Republic Day celebrations, in the presence of Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, Madras High Court Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee, Assembly Speaker P. Dhanapal and other dignitaries. Soon after placing a wreath at the War Memorial on Rajaji Salai, the Governor arrived for the celebrations near the Mahatma Gandhi statue on Kamarajar Salai, where he was received by Mr. Palaniswami. After a brief introduction to senior officers from the Army, Navy, Air Force, Coast Guard and the police, Mr. Purohit unfurled the National Flag. As the gathering sang the National Anthem, an Air Force helicopter showered flower petals on those at the spot. The Republic Day parade, which was a low-key affair due to the COVID-19 situation, saw fewer marching contingents, and there were no cultural events by school and college students, a regular feature every year. During the ceremonial march past, contingents from the Army, Army Band, the Navy, the Air Force, the Coast Guard, ex-servicemen, the Central Reserve Police Force, the Central Industrial Security Force, the Railway Police Force, various wings of the Tamil Nadu Police, the Home Guards (Men and Women), impressed the gathering. Later, the Chief Minister handed over various medals to recipients. An acrobatic display by personnel from the Tamil Nadu Police enthralled the audience. The cultural extravaganza by troupes from the South Zone Cultural Centre of the Union Ministry of Culture, reflecting the rich cultural heritage of various States, added to the pomp and gaiety. A procession of floats from various State government departments showcased their services to the people. The event concluded with the National Anthem. Wing Commander Kushhal Kalja was the Parade Commander.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/governor-leads-the-republic-day-celebrations/article33671144.ece
27 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Airport still waiting for system to detect trespassers||A few weeks ago, a vehicle going for rounds in the tarmac at the airport found a man roaming in the apron area. On enquiry, they found he had jumped onto the tarmac through Gate No. 6 from GST Road. This could have been avoided if a perimeter intrusion detection system was in place. The idea was mooted a few years ago but the system is yet to be installed. Tenders should have been floated already but it is not clear why there had been a delay and why it had not been implemented still. Sensor-based module Officials of the Airports Authority of India (AAI) said it was a sensor-based system and hence any attempt to jump over the perimeter wall would be detected immediately. In the past, there have been a slew of incidents where men and animals walked onto the tarmac. “Even if the system is put in place, the CISF personnel deployed at various points have to be vigilant and immediately check the area if an alert is sent out. But we will not need so many personnel and their strength can be reduced,” an official said. Sources said the tenders for installation of the system were likely to be floated soon.  Even if the system is put in place, the CISF personnel have to be vigilant and immediately check the area if an alert is sent out AAI Official||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/airport-still-waiting-for-system-to-detect-trespassers/article33671154.ece
27 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Redeployment of small buses planned||In a bid to use its fleet of small buses efficiently, the Metropolitan Transport Corporation (MTC) plans to hand over some vehicles to other transport corporations to be deployed at tourist spots. There are around 200 small buses with the MTC. Due to the competition from share autorickshaws, many of them do not fetch a good revenue. “After COVID-19, most buses aren’t seeing good occupancy rates,” an MTC official said. Therefore, the MTC is planning to hand them over to other corporations. “During the Athi Varadar festival, small buses played a vital role as autorickshaws were fleecing people. Hence, we are planning to give some to Madurai so that they can be operated around the Meenakshi temple. There has been demand from Rameswaram too,” an official said. He said plying small buses around tourist spots can fetch good revenue. “Even if it is a six-member tourist group, they can easily travel in these buses rather than hiring two auto rickshaws or a car. We will get good revenue,” he added. Besides, the MTC is studying localities that need such buses for connectivity. “In some areas where buses are already being operated, the demand is poor. Hence operating them on those stretches is a waste of manpower and fuel,” the official added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/redeployment-of-small-buses-planned/article33671164.ece
27 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Discounts on tech courses offered for students at IIT-M||An Indian Institute of Technology Madras (IIT-M) incubated online learning platform GUVI plans to celebrate the 72nd Republic Day by offering discounts on tech courses for the benefit of all students. The 90-odd courses are aimed at equipping students for jobs. Over 100 technologists from top product companies have volunteered to conduct free webinars on industry-needed IT skills for the next two months to prepare students for IT jobs, said S.P. Balamurugan, co-founder and chief executive officer. Courses such as online mentorship and handy programming tools such as CodeKata, WebKata and MicroArc are offered as free add-ons. “Our initiative will offer high-quality technological courses at a reduced cost. This upholds our version of Right to Skillful Education. This ensures that learners acquire employable skills which will give them a secure career,” he said. More details are available on www.guvi.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/discounts-on-tech-courses-offered-for-students-at-iit-m/article33671169.ece
27 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Mural at MRTS station creates awareness about HIV/AIDS||A Mass Rapid Transit System (MRTS) railway station has been converted into a giant canvas to create awareness of the fight against HIV/AIDS. The mural on the outer portion of the sprawling Indira Nagar railway station aims to take the ‘We Are’ campaign, initiated by the Tamil Nadu State AIDS Control Society (TANSACS), to the masses. TANSACS, in collaboration with Southern Railway and sponsored by TIDEL Park and a few other companies, has put on display the portraits of 10 different individuals as part of a World AIDS Day awareness event. It is one of the biggest artworks in the State. Deepak Jacob, project director, TANSACS, said the campaign was started last year as part of World AIDS Day, observed on December 1. The theme ‘We Are’ expresses solidarity in the fight against HIV/AIDS, and this was done through portraits and urban art elements, he said. Work started last year The work on the mural started on December 11 last year, and the painting would be completed in the next two days, Mr. Jacob said. He said the panoramic mural was designed by street artists Siddharth Gohil and A-Kill. Southern Railway General Manager John Thomas, during the 72nd Republic Day address held at the railway stadium in Perambur, congratulated the street artists and TANSACS for the mural and for successfully showcasing the hopeful stories of AIDS survivors. The mural has been done along the lines of the paintings in the tenements of the Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board (TNSCB) in Kannagi Nagar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mural-at-mrts-station-creates-awareness-about-hivaids/article33671171.ece
27 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||523 persons test positive, 5 more die||As many as 523 persons tested positive for COVID-19 on Tuesday, taking the State’s tally to 8,35,803, even as 595 persons were discharged after treatment. With this, 8,18,742 persons have been discharged so far. The State recorded five deaths, pushing the toll to 12,325. As on date, 4,736 persons are undergoing treatment. A total of 6,93,945 persons aged between 13 and 60 have contracted the infection so far. As many as 1,11,711 persons aged over 60 and 30,147 aged below 12 have been infected. Chennai recorded 168 cases and 192 persons were discharged after treatment. Two persons succumbed to the infection, while 1,616 persons are currently undergoing treaetment. Till date, 2,30,522 persons have tested positive for the infection and 2,24,818 have been discharged. Chennai’s toll stands at 4,088. Kallakurichi and Perambalur saw no case and 19 other districts recorded under 10 fresh infections. Ariyalur, Karur, Dharmapuri, Thirupattur and Villupuram recorded just one case each. All the deceased persons had co-morbidities. Three persons died in private hospitals and two in government facilities. On the 11th day of vaccination in the State on Tuesday, nearly 5,000 people were inoculated. A total of 4,926 persons were vaccinated. According to the Director of Public Health and Preventive Medicine 4,739 persons were given Covishield. Covaxin was administered to 187 persons. Till date, 73,953 persons have benefitted from the two vaccines. Of these, 72,253 have been administered Covishield.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/523-persons-test-positive-5-more-die/article33671149.ece
27 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK unwilling to change status quo||Behind Chief Minister and AIADMK co-coordinator Edappadi K. Palaniswami’s categorical dismissal of the possibility of re-admitting the former interim general secretary, V.K. Sasikala, into the ruling party lies an unwillingness to disturb the current scheme of things in the party and the government. This is the broad view among a cross-section of the party’s functionaries. Currently, Mr. Palaniswami and Deputy Chief Minister and party coordinator O. Panneerselvam are, amid several constraints, steering the affairs of the party smoothly, despite a widespread perception that the former’s point of view prevails over that of the latter, office-bearers say, expressing the hope that the two leaders will thrash out even the tricky issue of ticket distribution between their nominees for the Assembly election, as they did during the 2019 Lok Sabha election. Under such circumstances, there is no need for the party leadership to make any change in the way it is running the organisation and the government, some functionaries explain. Losing votes Proponents of the idea of the AIADMK working with Sasikala or her nephew and AMMK founder T.T.V. Dhinakaran are of the view that the party would stand to lose at least 3% of the votes polled, in the absence of any arrangement for collaboration. Referring to the AMMK’s performance in the Assembly byelections in April-May 2019, they point out that the party secured a 9.3% vote share in 9 Assembly constituencies in the southern districts, though its average vote share was 7.2% in the 22 seats that went to the bypolls then. As for the Lok Sabha election, the breakaway group, despite forfeiting its deposit in all the constituencies where it had contested, did, however, net a vote share of 10% or more in the Theni, Virudhunagar, Ramanathapuram and Sivaganga seats, besides around 9.6% in Thanjavur and Tiruchi. The total vote share obtained by the party was 5.25%. However, the other school of thought is that given the AMMK’s limited following and the adverse perception about Sasikala in certain quarters, the gains to be made by the AIADMK in pockets of southern and central districts would be “much less” than the losses the ruling party may have to suffer elsewhere. Instead of providing value addition, the Sasikala factor is likely to be a liability to the party. Gains in the south Besides, the government’s efforts to get seven constituents of the Scheduled Castes declared as Devendrakula Vellalar may yield electoral gains in the south, where there is a concentration of the seven constituents. Once the Centre makes an announcement about providing a generic name to the seven castes, the support the party would get out of the move would offset any losses in the south. G. Palanithurai, former chair of Panchayat Raj Studies, Department of Political Science and Development Administration, Gandhigram Rural Institute, says the Chief Minister, possibly motivated by reports of a “lack of anti-incumbency factor” at work, has taken a “calculated risk” in not accommodating Sasikala, as he is keen on positioning himself as a force to reckon with in State politics after the election, regardless of its outcome.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-unwilling-to-change-status-quo-say-functionaries/article33671153.ece
27 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Republic Day celebrated across the city with safety norms in place||Republic Day celebrations on Tuesday were toned down but nevertheless observed by various government offices and educational institutions across the city with restricted participation owing to the pandemic. Chennai Collector R. Seethalakshmi distributed welfare assistance under different government schemes to several beneficiaries at an event held at the Chennai Collectorate. John Thomas, General Manager, Southern Railway, who took the salute at the RPF parade, said last year had posed many challenges for Southern Railway. Besides the pandemic, it had to bear the brunt of two cyclones, Nivar and Burevi, that hit the State. Appreciating the personnel’s indomitable spirit, he said they had ensured smooth resumption of rail services. He also distributed awards to COVID-19 warriors of the medical department. It was an occasion to honour about 163 employees of the Metropolitan Transport Corporation for their dedication. MTC Managing Director K. Elangovan gave away cash prizes to employees who excelled in different services, including sales of monthly season ticket, collection of fine and ensuring road safety. At the Tamil Nadu State Election Commission office in Koyambedu, Election Commissioner R. Palaniswamy hoisted the national flag and distributed sweets. Competitions held Competitions in badminton and table tennis were conducted for the employees of Chennai Metro Rail Ltd. CMRL’s managing director Pradeep Yadav gave away prizes to 48 officials and staff members. Addressing a small gathering at the Chennai Customs office, M.V.S. Choudary, Chief Commissioner of Customs, Chennai, elaborated on various initiatives. The body had detected 481 cases involving Rs. 64.14 crore, mostly related to gold smuggling. Awards were presented to the best personnel of the Central Industrial Security Force, the Port Fire Service and the port users at the event held by the Chennai Port Trust. Its chairman P. Raveendran also inspected a parade. At the celebrations held at Indian Oil Bhavan, Nungambakkam, P. Jayadevan, executive director and State head (Tamil Nadu and Puducherry) highlighted several innovative and pioneering products introduced, including XP 100 – high octane petrol and LPG variant — XtraTej. Educational institutions Various educational institutions also celebrated Republic Day. Vice-Chancellor Sudha Seshayyan of the Tamil Nadu Dr. M.G.R. Medical University unfurled the flag on the university premises. At the Sri Ramachandra Institute of Higher Education and Research P.V. Vijayaraghavan, who unfurled the flag, said the institute was building a separate block and participating in vaccination trials. During the celebrations held at VIT Chennai, Sankar Viswanathan, vice-president, VIT, unfurled the tricolour and reviewed the guard of honour presented by security personnel. Similarly, Tamil Nadu Waqf Board chairman A. Mohammedjan hoisted the national flag on the board’s premises. Events were also organised at the TANGEDCO office, Oil and Natural Gas Corporation and Tamil Nadu Disaster Risk Reduction Agency premises with adherence to strict safety norms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/republic-day-celebrated-across-the-city-with-safety-norms-in-place/article33671166.ece
27 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Kamal takes a dig at AIADMK govt. over gram sabha meetings||Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM) founder Kamal Haasan on Tuesday criticised the AIADMK government for denying permission for conducting gram sabha meetings by citing COVID-19. He pointed out that the government allowed Republic Day celebrations and the unveiling of a mausoleum for former CM Jayalalithaa. In a tweet on Tuesday, he asked: “Who is this government really afraid of?” In another tweet, Mr. Haasan questioned the role of people in nation building and said it had shrunk to a mere casting of votes during elections. “Let’s move towards the path through which people can get what they want and avoid what they don't want,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kamal-takes-a-dig-at-aiadmk-govt-over-gram-sabha-meetings/article33671177.ece
27 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘People sceptical about vaccines took a shot’||A survey by LocalCircles, a community social media platform, held in the last four months, has found that though most people surveyed were sceptical, quite a few had since got vaccinated against COVID-19. Around 20 lakh front-line health workers in the country have been vaccinated since January 16, when the Central government introduced Covishield and Covaxin. However, around 55% healthcare professionals surveyed in the country wanted to defer vaccination. LocalCircles, which began collecting responses from people to understand their views on the vaccines, said as of January 19, 62% were hesitant to be vaccinated immediately. The organisation found that while 36% of them had taken the vaccines or would take them, 4% said they would take the vaccines whenever they were made available in private hospitals or through other channels. While 28% respondents said they would wait for up to three months to decide, 16% wanted to wait for six and 7% said the would take up to a year. As much as 3% of those surveyed said they would decide in 2022. Only 6% of the respondents said they would not take the vaccine at all. However, the good news is that there was a five percentile drop among the hesitant people, in just three weeks, between the first and second survey. LocalCircles did the first survey in October and the second in January. Reports of uncertainty over side-effects and efficacy of the vaccines and reports of adverse events during the trial pushed back the decision to take the vaccines. Hesitancy levels rose then, but soon after the government began the vaccination drive, the hesitancy levels fell to 62% in the first week of January, and to 60% in the week ending January 25. One of the main reasons cited was the uncertainty about the vaccines’ side-effects. More than 50% people said they were hesitant because of the side-effects, while 14% said the uncertainty around the efficacy of the vaccines was also a reason. Around 4% believed there was no need for vaccines as COVID-19 would be gone, the report found. Another reason for hesitancy was the non-release of phase-3 trial data for Covaxin.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/people-sceptical-about-vaccines-took-a-shot/article33671150.ece
27 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Awareness, exercise key for patients with diabetes’||Awareness among patients, regular exercise and diet modification are key for patients with diabetes to lead a normal and longer life, said experts who spoke at a virtual conclave organised by the South India MICE Association (SIMA). Addressing the conference organised under the theme “Living longer with diabetes”, Mala Dharmalingam, professor and head, Department of Endocrinology, Diabetes and Metabolism, Ramaiah Memorial Hospital, stressed that regular walking and exercise were vital for fitness in patients with diabetes. V. Mohan, chairman and chief of diabetology, Dr. Mohan’s Diabetes Specialities Centre, said though many drugs for diabetes had become affordable, patient motivation was key to taking medication, self-monitoring and follow-ups. Patient awareness Ambarish Mithal, chairman and head of endocrinology and diabetes, Max Healthcare, highlighted the importance of patient awareness, in addition to the affordability and accessibility of medications. M.K. Ajit Kumar, founder and spokesperson, SIMA; Shabin Sarvottam, president, SIMA; and Mahesh Abhyankar, vice-president of Scientific Services, USV Pvt. Ltd., also spoke during the conference.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/awareness-exercise-key-for-patients-with-diabetes/article33671165.ece
27 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Institute files police complaint after viral circular||SRM Institute of Science and Technology (SRMIST) in Kattankulathur here has filed a complaint with the police in Chengalpattu, Kancheepuram and Chennai regarding a circular that has gone viral. The circular, purportedly issued on the letterhead of the Registrar of the institute, N. Sethuraman, said it was mandatory for all girl students to have a boyfriend on the campus for security purposes. “Girls who are single will not be allowed to enter into premises. They will have to show a recent picture with their boyfriend while entering into the campus,” the circular said.  Registrar’s signature It also had the Registrar’s signature and seal. Mr. Sethuraman said this was not the first time that a circular had been misused. “We regularly send circulars regarding COVID-19 and the rules regarding the reopening of the college... Since we send it by mail and such letters come through social media, we are unable to trace those involved,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/institute-files-police-complaint-after-viral-circular/article33671173.ece
27 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Awards for farmer producer companies||From this year, the State has started awarding the best-performing farmer producer organisations to recognise their good work in governance and business performance. The award consists of a medal and a certificate. Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami handed over the medals to the recipients. Erode Precision Farm Producer Company and Velliangiri Uzhavan Producer Company Limited received the Best Performing Farmer Producer Company- Governance Award, which was one of the awards presented at the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/awards-for-farmer-producer-companies/article33671142.ece
27 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Two held for possessing ganja||Personnel from the Madipakkam police station on Tuesday arrested two persons for possessing ganja. Late on Monday, Madipakkam police inspector M. Ravi received information about the contraband. He and and his team mounted surveillance near a temple in Anbu Nagar, Kilkattalai, and nabbed two suspicious persons. After interrogation, the police arrested the duo, identified as B. Ramachandran, 29, of Moovarasampettai, and R. Gowtham, 24, of Nandanam. Over 1.2 kg of ganja, packed in small parcels, were seized from them. The police have an open history-sheet against Ramachandran. Both accused have been remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-held-for-possessing-ganja-in-madipakkam/article33671156.ece
27 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||DMK resolves to fight for State’s rights in Parliament||The DMK has resolved to raise its voice in Parliament against the BJP government at the Centre which, the regional party claims, has damaged Parliamentary protocols, democracy, States’ rights, secularism as enshrined in the Constitution, social justice and the rights of the people of the country. The DMK passed resolutions at a meeting of its Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha MPs convened by party president M.K. Stalin on Tuesday, ahead of the Budget session of Parliament. The party resolved to protect the rights of Tamil Nadu and its people by guarding them against the “atrocities of the BJP regime”, adding that its MPs would raise their voice in Parliament to ensure this. It also recalled the contributions of its MPs over the past 10 years towards upholding the rights of Tamil Nadu and raising the issues faced by the people of the State in Parliament.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-resolves-to-fight-for-states-rights-in-parliament/article33671183.ece
27 January 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||5 kg of gold jewellery goes missing from retailer’s office||Over 5 kg of gold jewellery has gone missing from the corporate office of Lalitha Jewellery, Habibullah Road, said police sources. Police suspect Praveen Kumar Singh, an employee, is behind the theft. A special team was formed to trace the suspect and recover the jewellery, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/5-kg-of-gold-jewellery-goes-missing-from-retailers-office/article33671167.ece
27 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Rajasthan Cosmo Club Foundation opens new store||The Rajasthan Cosmo Club (RCC) Foundation inaugurated the second branch of the RCC Smile Store at Avadi here on Tuesday. The store aims to provide refurbished and cost-effective clothing for the underprivileged. The new branch was opened as part of its philanthropic efforts after the positive response to its first store at Nungambakkam. Health secretary J. Radhakrishnan, chief guest of the event, appreciated the initiative and called it a unique concept and actor M. Nassar also applauded thee work. Smile Store chairman Jagdish Sarda elaborated on the vision to open more such stores across the State to bring smiles among people. The space for Avadi store was provided by Kushal Bohra from the Bohra Eye Hospital. Various initiatives of the RCC, including providing new school uniforms, were also highlighted during the occasion. Abhaya Srisrimal and Usha, who represented the Abusha Foundation, one of the main donors of the project, also extended their support. RCC’s president Manish Chowdhari also spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rajasthan-cosmo-club-foundation-opens-new-store/article33671172.ece
27 January 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Jaya memorial inauguration selfish: Stalin||DMK president M.K. Stalin said the inauguration of former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa’s memorial on Wednesday by Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami was a selfish and indecent drama, being staged for the upcoming election. In a statement, Mr. Stalin said Mr. Palaniswami did not have the moral right or authority to inaugurate the memorial, and this was the main question on everyone’s minds, especially among Jayalalithaa’s followers. He said the AIADMK government had given the 10th extension to the retired Justice Arumugaswami Commission, delaying the outcome of the inquiry into Jayalalithaa’s death. Mr. Stalin said it was not the DMK that had raised doubts on her death first, but it was the Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam. While it was Mr. Panneerselvam who had started his dharma yudham, blaming others, but they have all finally joined hands and betrayed Jayalalithaa,. “Two of the most disloyal people in the AIADMK are now going to inaugurate Jayalalithaa’s memorial,” he said. TNCC president K.S. Alagiri also said the AIADMK government’s plan to inaugurate the memorial, even before the retired Justice Arumugaswami Commission could conclude its hearing was nothing but an attempt to hoodwink the people. “Without unravelling the mystery behind her death, as alleged by Mr. Pannerselvam, the inauguration of her memorial is a betrayal by the AIADMK of their former leader,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/jaya-memorial-inauguration-selfish-stalin/article33671146.ece
27 January 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||72nd Republic Day celebrated minus usual fanfare across districts||The district administration, Coimbatore Corporation and various Central, State and private establishments celebrated the 72nd Republic Day here on Tuesday with patriotic fervour and minus the fanfare as part of COVID-19 safety protocol. District Collector K. Rajamani led the celebration at the VOC Park Ground by hoisting the National Flag and accepting the guard of honour from police personnel. Personnel from the First, Second and Third battalions of the Armed Reserve police attached to Coimbatore City and the police band participated in the parade that Commissioner of Police Sumit Saran, Deputy Inspector General of Police, West Zone, K.S. Narenthiran Nair and other senior officials witnessed. Mr. Rajamani presented the Chief Minister’s Police Medal to 124 personnel from the Coimbatore City and Rural police. Certificates of appreciation were presented to 92 employees from various departments, said a release. Four drivers who had had 25 years of blemishless service were given gold coins. At the Coimbatore Corporation, Commissioner P. Kumaravel Pandian garlanded Mahatma Gandhi bust and hoisted the Tricolour. A release from the civic body said Mr. Pandian presented certificates of appreciation to those who worked during the COVID-19 lockdown to contain the spread of the disease. He also gave away a purse of Rs. 2,000 each to 10 workers who had had 25 years of blemishless service and certificate. Republic Day events were also held at the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University, Bharathiar University, District Central Library, Avinashilingam Deemed University, and Isha Yoga Center. At INS Agrani, officers from Indian Navy led the 72nd Republic Day celebrations after placing wreath on Veer Sthal. Proficiency awards were given to healthcare workers, Naval and ‘defence civilian’ personnel, said a communique. Vishisht Seva Medal President of India Ram Nath Kovind awarded the Vishisht Seva Medal (VSM) to Commanding Officer of INS Agrani Commodore Ashok Rai, the INS Agrani announced here on Tuesday. Tiruppur District Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan felicitated 153 police officials and presented welfare assistance worth Rs. 6.31 crore to 222 beneficiaries at the Republic Day celebration held at the Chikkanna Government Arts College. After hoisting the National Flag, Mr. Vijayakarthikeyan inspected the guard of honour He felicitated 177 officials from various departments including the Health Department for their role during the COVID-19 pandemic. Other awardees include personnel from the Tamil Nadu Fire and Rescue Services and volunteers from NGOs, according to a release. City Commissioner of Police G. Karthikeyan, Superintendent of Police Disha Mittal and District Revenue Officer G. Saravanamurthy took part in the celebration. The Nilgiris The Nilgiris District Collector J. Innocent Divya honoured doctors, sanitary workers and COVID-19 frontline workers during the Republic Day celebration held at the Government Arts College grounds in Udhagamandalam. After unfurling the Tricolour, Ms. Divya and District Superintendent of Police V. Sasi Mohan received the salute from the police personnel. A press release from the district administration said that welfare assistance to the tune of Rs. 1.28 crore was handed over to beneficiaries. A total of 162 staff from various government departments were given certificates of appreciation. At the Theppakadu Elephant Camp in the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve, the Tricolor was held aloft by mahouts and their elephants.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/72nd-republic-day-celebrated-minus-usual-fanfare-across-districts/article33671207.ece
27 January 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore sees 48 cases, one death||Coimbatore district reported one COVID-19 death and 48 new cases on Tuesday. The overall tally rose to 54,125. With the death of a 57-year-old man who was undergoing treatment for COVID-19, the district’s toll increased to 670, the Health Department said. The district has a total of 443 active cases and 69 persons were discharged from various treatment centres on Tuesday. Tiruppur district reported 13 fresh cases on Tuesday, and the overall tally increased to 17,781. No deaths were reported in the district. As many as 17,385 patients have recovered and 175 were active cases. On Tuesday, 21 persons were discharged after recovery. The Nilgiris Ten persons tested positive for the disease in the Nilgiris on Tuesday. With the latest infections, the total number of confirmed cases in the district stands at 8,172. Fifty-five persons are under treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-sees-48-cases-one-death/article33671211.ece
27 January 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Kavundampalayam-Vadavalli water scheme to be commissioned soon||Tamil Nadu Water Supply and Drainage (TWAD) Board is all set to commission the project it had taken up to improve drinking water supply in Kavundampalayam and Vadavalli. Supply to improve Sources said the Board would commission the project in the next few days that would help over 26,000 residents get water on a par with the residents in the core city area – from 75 litres per capita per day to 135 litres. The Board had implemented the project at Rs. 108.16 crore, laying new distribution lines right from the source to the houses of the beneficiaries. It had also implemented another project at Rs. 32.3 crore to draw more water from River Bhavani at Nellithurai. Under these two projects, the Board would supply through the Coimbatore Corporation 25.16 million litres a day to the two areas. At present, the Board supplied 13.66 million litres a day, drawn from River Bhavani at Nellithurai and Siruvani. The Board took up the project to improve the water supply in the two areas because of the increase in population.  Pipelines laid As a part of the water augmentation project, the Board had also laid pipelines from the master storage reservoir (water tank) in Ramakrishnapuram on Sathyamangalam Road to draw an additional 6.52 million litres to be supplied to the two areas. In all, the residents in the two areas would get 31.68 million litres water a day. And, this would take care of their drinking water needs until 2036, the sources added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kavundampalayam-vadavalli-water-scheme-to-be-commissioned-soon/article33671197.ece
27 January 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Members of SDPI, farmers’ association take out rallies||The Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) and the Communist Party of India affiliate, All India Kisan Sabha (AIKS), took out rallies on Republic Day on Tuesday in support of the farmers protesting in Delhi demanding the repeal of three farm laws. The AIKS members protested in front of the Coimbatore Collectorate, after marching from the Thandu Mariamman Temple on Avinashi Road. While taking out the march, the farmers shouted slogans condemning the Central Government. The Coimbatore City Police personnel thwarted their attempt to besiege the Collectorate during the protest. The AIKS’ Coimbatore district president S. Palanisamy said they carried fruits, vegetables and motor as the protesters were denied permission to use a tractor. He appealed to the Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami to come out in support of the farmers by demanding the repeal of the three laws. The SDPI cadre took out a rally from Town Hall to Lorry Pet in Ukkadam. Carrying a bier with fruits and vegetables and models of plough, they demanded that the Central Government repeal the laws. District general secretary Mohammad Isaq led the protest. More than 100 persons participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/members-of-sdpi-farmers-association-take-out-rallies/article33671202.ece
27 January 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK also responsible for Delhi violence: Stalin||The AIADMK was also responsible for the violence that took place during protesting farmers’ tractor rally in Delhi on Tuesday, DMK president M.K. Stalin told journalists at a press meet held here on Tuesday. “Were it not for AIADMK’s support in the Rajya Sabha, the Central government could not have passed the three farm bills. The party’s support for the passage of the bills led to the situation that unfolded on Tuesday,” he said. Even after supporting the passage of the bills, Chief Minister Edapadi K. Palaniswami continued talking in support of the laws and demeaned the farmers who opposed it. He should apologise to the farmers and the people of Tamil Nadu, Mr. Stalin said. Mr. Stalin accused the Central government of misusing the police force by unleashing violence on farmers, causing accidents and injuring many. Earlier, he presented a shawl to Coimbatore resident Pappammal, who was chosen for the Padma Shri award.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-is-also-responsible-for-delhi-violence-stalin/article33671182.ece
27 January 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||DRI officials receive Presidential Award||Two officials from the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI), Coimbatore, were conferred with the Presidential Awards for Specially Distinguished Record of Service for detecting extensive tax evasion and for anti-smuggling actions. A release said that Assistant Director A. Lakshmi Kanthan, and Senior Intelligence Officer P. Kannabiran have so far seized 502 kg smuggled gold, 213.85 kg illegal synthetic drugs, 477 fresh water turtles that were illegally imported or exported, and red sander logs weighing 82.59 metric tonnes worth Rs. 22.59 crore. The officers have detected tax evasion cases involving duty amount of Rs. 3,900 crore. This is the first instance where two officers from the DRI, Coimbatore Regional Unit, have been awarded the Presidential Awards for Specially Distinguished Record of Service. Medal for deputy jailor President Ram Nath Kovind approved Correctional Service Medal for Meritorious Service for M. Sakthivel, Deputy Jailor at the Coimbatore Central Prison, on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dri-officials-receive-presidential-award/article33671209.ece
27 January 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Couple injured in elephant attack||A man and his wife suffered minor injuries in an elephant attack near Alandurai on the outskirts of Coimbatore on Tuesday. According to the police, Venkatachalam (65) from Namakkal and his wife Sarojini (58) visited Isha Yoga Centre on Tuesday. At around 7 p.m., when they were waiting at a bus stop, a tusker pushed them to the ground and left the spot. They were admitted to a private hospital in Coimbatore and their condition was stable, according to the police. The Alandurai police are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/couple-injured-in-elephant-attack/article33671194.ece
27 January 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Briefly/||A. Mylswamy, father of former Director of ISRO Satellite Centre Mylswamy Annadurai, passed away at a private hospital in Coimbatore on Friday due to age-related ailments. He was 86. Sources said he was hospitalised for the past one week and died around 6 a.m. on Friday. Mylswamy was a retired headmaster of a government higher secondary school in Coimbatore district. The family volunteered to donate the eyes of the deceased at the hospital, the sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/briefly/article33671199.ece
27 January 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Mentoring session for MSMEs, startups||TiE Coimbatore, jointly with TiE Nagpur and TiE Ahmedabad, will conduct “Impact Speaker Series” programmes from January 28. According to a press release, the first mentoring session, to be held from 4.30 p.m. to 5.45 p.m., will be addressed by founder of Best Known Methods and Solutions B. Krishnamurthy on “Change Management”. There is no registration fee for the members but it is open to only 40 participants. MSMEs and startups can take part. For registration, log on tohttp://forms.gle/C53Q8MLgbvcBcoop8||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mentoring-session-for-msmes-startups/article33671208.ece
27 January 2021||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||Protests conducted against new farm laws||Farmers owing allegiance to the All India Farmers’ Protest Coordination Committee (AIFPCC) on Tuesday took out a procession with buffaloes in Kattumannarkovil to register their strong protest against the Centre’s continued “indifferent” attitude towards their demand for revoking the three farm laws. According to K.V. Elangeeran, State committee member of AIFPCC, “The farmers originally planned to take out a procession of tractors in Cuddalore on Republic Day to express their solidarity with the agitating farmers in New Delhi. However, with the police denying permission for the procession and threatening to impound the vehicles, the farmers decided to take out a procession of buffaloes instead.” Instead of helping the ryots who were struggling to sell their produce amid the pandemic, the government had enacted the farm laws to benefit big corporate entities. The protests by farmers would continue until the three anti-farmers legislation are withdrawn, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/protests-conducted-against-new-farm-laws/article33671516.ece
27 January 2021||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||NLCIL settles dues of landowners||Cuddalore principal district sessions judge Pa. Semmal handed over compensation to the tune of Rs. 4.34 crore to 63 beneficiaries who handed over their land to NLC India Ltd (NLCIL) for mining operations. According to an official from the public sector undertaking, the project-affected persons had filed an appeal for higher compensation, which came up for hearing during the Lok Adalat held at Neyveli on January 6. An agreement was reached between the NLCIL and the project-affected persons in the presence of the Lok Adalat forum. The Lok Adalat announced an enhanced compensation of Rs. 4.34 crore to 63 beneficiaries for surrendering 48.34 acres of land to the PSU. Accordingly, the enhanced amount was handed over to them. M. Lakshmi Kantha Rao, chief general manager, NLCIL, and senior officials of the Tamil Nadu Revenue Department were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nlcil-settles-dues-of-landowners/article33671517.ece
27 January 2021||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||Woman sanitation worker hoists flag||Palaniammal, a woman sanitation worker, was accorded the privilege of unfurling the national flag on Republic Day in Irulapatty panchayat in Paapireddypatty Union in Dharmapuri, at the instance of the panchayat president here on Tuesday. As an elected representative, it was the prerogative of Panchayat president Kumar to hoist the Tri-colour. An AIADMK man, he, however, ceded the privilege to the elderly sanitation worker. At first, Mr. Kumar felicitated the small team of sanitation workers, who were seen as instrumental in keeping the panchayat clean and also “COVID-19 free”. Later, Palaniammal, the oldest among the sanitation workers, was called upon to unfurl the national flag. During Pongal, Mr. Kumar had reportedly organised a feast for sanitation workers. Amid reports of discrimination against sanitation workers, due to caste supremacy and the pandemic, the gesture of the panchayat president ceding the privilege of hoisting the flag to the woman sanitation worker was lauded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-sanitation-worker-hoists-flag/article33671191.ece
27 January 2021||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||Medals given to many officials for meritorious service||Collector M Vijayalakshmi unfurled the national flag and inspected the guard of honour during the Republic Day celebrations here on Tuesday. Setting off tri-colour balloons and pigeons as a mark of peace, she honoured health workers on COVID-19 duty. She gave away Chief Minister’s medal to 71 policemen, 146 staff and officials from various departments including Revenue, Health and Family Welfare for their commendable service to the public. She visited the residences of freedom fighters and honoured them. She enquired about their health and wished them good luck. The DIG of Police (Dindigul Range) M S Muthusamy, DRO R Govindaraju and other officials participated. Vice-Chancellor (in-charge) of Gandhigram Rural Institute M.R. Kubendran unfurled the national flag and delivered the Republic Day address.   At Sri Adi Chunchanagiri Women’s College, Secretary N. Ramakrishnan hoisted the national flag. College principal G. Renuga delivered the welcome address.   Collector P Madhusudan Reddy hoisted the national flag and took the salute here on Tuesday. He inspected a guard of honour. Superintendent of Police Rohith Nathan Rajagopal accompanied him. He presented welfare assistance from various government departments to 90 beneficiaries - all worth about Rs. 1.21 crore. Medals were presented to 126 police personnel, 354 officials from various departments received certificates for their meritorious service. The Collector honoured freedom fighters with shawls. The COVID-19 pandemic forced the government to suspend cultural programmes. However, silambam, yoga and karate performances were staged by trained professionals. District Revenue Officer K Latha, Government Medical College Hospital Dean Rathnavel and other senior officials participated during the celebrations held at the Collectorate complex.   Unfurling of national flag and colourful cultural performances marked the Republic Day celebrations held at the Collectorate premises here. Collector R. Kannan inspected a guard of honour given along with Superintendent of Police P. Perumal and took salute from the police, fire and rescue services personnel. Later, he honoured freedom fighters and their legal heirs with shawls. He distributed Chief Minister’s medals to 122 police personnel and distributed certificates of merit and award to 52 police personnel, 18 personnel from Fire and Rescue Services. A cash award of Rs. 2,000 each was given to 32 officials in the Department of Revenue who had put in 25 years of service. Bharatanatyam, karakattam, thappattam and oyilattam were performed by various troupes. Employees of various government departments added to the colourful performances. Teachers of Virudhunagar dducational district and nurses presented separate dance performances and some officials recited their poems. District Revenue Officer, R. Mangalaramasubramanian, District Rural Development Agency (Project Director), V. Jayakumar, Sub Collector (Sivakasi), C. Dinesh Kumar, Joint Director (Agriculture), S. Uthandaraman, and officials from various other departments were present. At Kalasalingam Academy of Research and Education the Registrar Vasudevan hoisted the national flag. College staff took part in the celebrations.   Virudhunagar Principal District and Sessions Judge, A. Muthusaratha, unfurled the national flag at the Republic Day celebrations held at the District Court Complex here on Tuesday. Later, she planted three saplings. Sessions Judge, Special Court (POCSO cases), S.D. Parimala, Additional District Judge (in-charge), S. Kanchana, Family Court Judge, M. Sumathi Sai Priya, Principal Sub Judge, C. Kathiravan, District Legal Services Authority, secretary, K. Mariappan, were among those who took part in the celebrations.  Madurai Collector T. Anbalagan unfurled the national flag at the Armed Reserve Police Ground here. He gave away awards to 149 police personnel who were chosen for this year’s Chief Minister’s Award. Mr. Anbalagan awarded 263 officials from various government departments in recognition of their works. Welfare assistance to the tune of Rs. 21.20 lakh was given to 96 beneficiaries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/medals-given-to-many-officials-for-meritorious-service/article33671315.ece
27 January 2021||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||PM taking the nation in a dangerous path: Rahul||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has been taking the nation on a dangerous path, said Congress leader and MP Rahul Gandhi here on Monday. Speaking at a public meeting at Vedasandur in Karur Lok Sabha constituency, he said the economy had gone for a toss due to the demonetisation. Subsequently, the GST sealed the future of many small and medium industries. The Prime Minister went on implementing them as they were beneficial to a couple of friends but he was not interested in listening to the woes of the people. Claiming to keep the nation as ‘One India, One language,’ he was directly telling the people to speak the language he wanted. ‘Who is he,’ Mr. Rahul asked and went on saying that Mr. Modi had proved that he was an autocrat. Is Tamil not a language, he asked the crowd and said that Mr. Modi had no respect for Tamils and their language. On the other side, the Congress leader said, he liked to visit Tamil Nadu frequently, as the people showered affection on him. Attacking the Prime Minister, he said that Mr. Modi thinks that he can control the people of Tamil Nadu as he controls the AIADMK through a remote system from New Delhi. To put an end to the atrocities and corruption of the AIADMK, he said that a new government should be usher in the State and the DMK led front should sweep the elections, which would give hope to weavers, farmers, womenfolk, vendors and other marginalised sections in the society. Karur Congress MP Jothimani and other functionaries accompanied the leader, who later left for Madurai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pm-taking-the-nation-on-a-dangerous-path-rahul/article33671299.ece
27 January 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Farmers take out motorcycle rallies in Erode, Salem||In support of the farmers’ tractor rally in New Delhi on the Republic Day, farmers under the banner “All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee” took out motorcycle rallies in various parts of the district here on Tuesday. Farmers had proposed to take out motorcycle rallies from Sathyamangalam, Gobichettipalayam, Anthiyur, Bhavani, Chennimalai, Perundurai, Kodumudi, Sivagiri and from Kaalaimadu Silai towards the Collectorate and stage protest. But, the police denied permission for the rallies and instead allowed them to take short rallies and hold demonstrations. In the city, the farmers, holding the national flag, took out a rally from Kaalaimadu Silai to the Corporation office at Panneerselvam Park. They raised slogans in support of the protesting farmers in Delhi and wanted repeal of the three farm laws. In Gobichettipalayam, the rally began at the Communist Party of India office and passed through L. Kallipatti, Tahsildar office, Kadaiveedi before culminating at the bus stand. Later, the farmers took a pledge in support of the protesting farmers. At Perundurai, the farmers took out a rally from the bus stand through Erode Road, Post Office, Anna Silai, Bhavani Main Road and reached the starting point. Likewise, rallies were held at Sathyamangalam and other places in the district. In Salem, farmers along with members of trade unions took out a rally in tractors and two-wheelers and assembled near the Collectorate. They urged the Centre to repeal the farm laws. As the police turned down their request to take out a tractor rally, they staged a protest and dispersed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-take-out-motorcycle-rallies-in-erode-salem/article33671327.ece
27 January 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Man held for woman’s murder||A 34-year-old man, Senthil Kumar or R.N. Pudur, was arrested here on Tuesday on charges of murdering a woman named Rekha. The police said Rekha was the wife of Ramesh of Panamarathupatti in Salem district and they had two children. She and the children came to her parent’s house on A.B.T. Road at Veerappanchatiram on Sunday to attended a house warming ceremony on Monday. When the children had gone out with her mother, and Rekha was alone at home, an unidentified person entered the house around noon and left after sometime. Neighbours found her dead and alerted Veerappanchatiram police. Superintendent of Police P. Thangadurai, ADSP Pon Karthick Kumar and Town DSP Raju inspected the crime spot and held inquiries. Police checked a CCTV footage and identified Senthil Kumar, who had worked with Rekha in a textile showroom in the city two years ago. An inquiry revealed that he took away her six-sovereign gold jewellery, which the police later recovered from a pawn shop. The inquiry is on to ascertain whether there is any other motive behind the murder.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-held-for-womans-murder/article33671303.ece
27 January 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||‘Provide compensation for land acquired for Perundurai Sipcot’||Stating that people whose land were acquired for establishing the Sipcot at Perundurai were not given adequate compensation even after 25 years, members of the Perundurai Sipcot Affected People Welfare Association have urged the State government to consider their long pending demand and provide compensation. In a letter submitted to the Chief Minister through Perundurai Tahsildar, they said that based on Government Order 91/91 dated February 2, 1991, 2,700 acre land in Perundurai and Ingur were acquired from the people. Land was registered in the name of Tamil Nadu Corporation for Industrial Infrastructure Development Limited (TACID) and the people in Ingur were given compensation of Rs. 60,000 an acre for dry land, Rs. 1.20 lakh an acre for farm land and people in Perundurai were given Rs. 1.50 lakh an acre and Rs. 2 lakh an acre respectively. But due to various reasons, over 100 families owing 200 acre did not register their land directly in the name of TACID. Later, the government fixed Rs. 60,000 an acre for acquiring the land. Since the compensation was very low, many approached the Erode court which in 2006 ordered compensation of Rs. 2.10 lakh an acre to be paid to the petitioners. But the State government and the Sipcot administration appealed against the order in the Madras High Court. The court on February 21, 2020, dismissed the appeal petition and ordered compensation to be paid. The letter, signed by association coordinator S. Chinnasamy, said people, who had given their land for industrial development, were yet to be given adequate compensation even after the court’s order, causing hardship to them. “They were suffering for 25 years now and based on the Madras High Court’s order, compensation should be immediately given,” the letter said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/provide-compensation-for-land-acquired-for-perundurai-sipcot/article33671334.ece
27 January 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Constable placed under suspension||With the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC) registering a case against a special branch constable for amassing wealth disproportionate to his known source of income, Superintendent of Police P. Thangadurai placed him under suspension. P. Velkumar (48) was serving at Erode Town Police station and based on complaints, sleuths from DVAC raided his house on January 20. They found that he had accumulated wealth beyond his income in the name of his wife, V. Jeyaprabha. Their bank lockers were also opened and jewellery and cash were seized. Their house in Municipal Chatiram and a shop were also raided. The sleuths confirmed that he had amassed assets worth over Rs. 54 lakh which was said to be disproportionate to his known source of income. A case was registered against Velkumar and Jeyaprabha. On January 22, Mr. Thangadurai issued orders transferring him from the station to the district control room. Recently, the DVAC had submitted a report to Mr. Thangadurai based on which the constable was placed under suspension.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/constable-placed-under-suspension/article33671187.ece
27 January 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||21 cases in Erode district||Erode district reported 21 new COVID-19 cases, taking the district’s tally to 14,266. While 12 persons were discharged, 166 persons continue to be under treatment. In Salem, 24 persons tested positive, taking the district’s tally to 32,333. While 16 persons were discharged, 141 persons continue to be under treatment. Namakkal saw seven cases, taking the district’s tally to 11,570. A total of 12 persons were discharged, while 88 persons are under treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/21-cases-in-erode-district/article33671324.ece
27 January 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Meeting on minimum wages for textile workers on Jan. 29||A meeting of stakeholders related to fixing minimum wages for workers involved in home textiles making will be held at the Office of the Assistant Commissioner of Labour (Enforcement) at 11 a.m. on January 29. A release from the Labour Department said the State government had constituted a committee to fix the minimum wages for workers employed in home textiles as per the Minimum Wages Act, 1948. The committee, headed by N. Govindan, Joint Commissioner of Labour, Dindigul, would provide advice to the government while a consultative committee, headed by V. Ramraj, Assistant Commissioner of Labour (Enforcement), Dindigul and P. Mayilsamy, Assistant Director, Department of Statistics, would meet the representatives and workers. The committees would also inspect the industrial units and hold discussions with stakeholders. Workers and trade union representatives could participate in the meeting and express their opinion and also give it in writing. The meeting would be held at the Office located near the Government ITI, Chennimalai Road, Erode 638 009. Contact 0424-220090 or 90259 24954, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/meeting-on-minimum-wages-for-textile-workers-on-jan-29/article33671328.ece
27 January 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||112 shops, establishments booked||The Labour Department has registered cases against 112 shops, eateries, transport companies and commercial establishments here for not declaring a holiday for its workers and employees on Republic Day on Tuesday, and for not providing double wages to them. Inspection A press release from D. Balathandayutham, Assistant Commissioner of Labour (Enforcement) said that while 170 establishments in Erode, Bhavani, Perundurai, Gobichettipalayam and Sathyamangalam were inspected, 112 were found to have indulged in the violation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/112-shops-establishments-booked/article33671335.ece
27 January 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||College student ends life||A first year college student reportedly ended his life here on Sunday as he was unable to understand the online classes. The police said M. Ashok (19) of Ambedkar Nagar in Narayanavalasu was attending online classes. On Sunday night, he along with his parents Muthusamy, Kanniyammal and two brothers went to his grandmother’s house in the same area. The police said Ashok went to a room on the first floor and did not return. Later, Muthusamy found him dead. The police were alerted and the body was sent to the District Headquarters and Hospital. In his complaint to the Erode North Police on Monday, Mr. Muthusamy said his son had been complaining that he was unable to understand the online classes and was under stress. Hence, he could have ended his life, he said in his complaint. A case under Section 174 Cr.PC was registered. The body was handed over to the family after post-mortem. Assistance to overcome suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/college-student-ends-life/article33671186.ece
27 January 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Poultry birds to be vaccinated||To protect poultry birds from Ranikhet disease that leads to death of birds, the Department of Animal Husbandry will conduct a special vaccination campaign from February 1 to 14 at the veterinary dispensaries in the district. In a release, Collector C. Kathiravan said the disease was caused by a virus that affected the birds (chicken) during summer. Symptoms in birds were respiratory distress, diarrhoea, depression, failing to consume water and feeds. Hence, vaccinating the bird was the only solution to keep it protected. The release said that farmers and the public who had birds should vaccinate their birds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/poultry-birds-to-be-vaccinated/article33671329.ece
27 January 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Power shutdown||Due to underground cabling works, power supply will be disrupted from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. on January 27 in the following areas:  South Railway line: Marapalam, Municipal Chatiram, Agrahara Street, Periyar Street, Karavaikal, Valayakarar Street, Cutchery Street, Mandapam Street, VVCR Nagar and Vengadasamy Street.  Sakthi Road line: Nehru Street, Sakthi Road, Masjid Street, Brindha Street, Palanimalai Street, Ottukara Chinnaiya Street, Krishna Street, ABT Road, Kandasamy Street, KAS Nagar and market areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-shutdown/article33671330.ece
27 January 2021||ERODE/Salem,TAMIL NADU||Distribution of certificates, medals marks R-Day celebrations across districts||Erode District Collector C. Kathiravan unfurled the national flag at the V.O.C. Park Ground Stadium and accepted the guard of honour during the 72nd Republic Day celebrations on Tuesday. Mr. Kathiravan distributed certificates of appreciation to 137 government officials and frontline staff involved in fighting COVID-19 in the district. He also gave away medals to 60 police personnel. He visited the houses of freedom fighters and honoured them. Only government officials and staff were allowed to enter the stadium adhereing to COVID-19 safety protocols. B. Murugesan, Principal District Judge, unfurled the flag on the court premises while Corporation Commissioner M. Elangovan unfurled the Tri-colour at the Corporation office. The celebrations were held at Kongu Engineering College, Sri Vasavi College (Self Finance Wing) and Sree Amman Arts and Science College. In Salem, Collector S.A. Raman hoisted the national flag at the Mahatma Gandhi stadium and accepted the guard of honour. He distributed certificates of appreciation to 139 government officials and frontline staff and 121 police personnel. Mr. Raman also distributed cheque of Rs. 50,000 each to five schools for their performance in 2018-19. Corporation Commissioner N. Ravichandran hoisted the flag at the Corporation office and distributed prizes to children of conservancy workers who scored high marks in board examinations. At the office of TNSTC, Salem Division, Managing Director R. Mohan hoisted the Tri-colour and distributed certificates of appreciation to 15 drivers and conductors and engineers for their performance. Namakkal Collector K. Megraj hoisted the national flag at the district grounds and presented appreciation certificates to 152 government staff and police personnel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/distribution-of-certificates-medals-marks-r-day-celebrations-across-districts/article33671333.ece
27 January 2021||KARAIKAL,TAMIL NADU||Cauvery Asset executed 120 projects||As a responsible Corporate Citizen, Cauvery Asset has been undertaking several projects in and around operational areas, contributing Rs. 4.4 crore under Corporate Social Responsibility to 120 various projects during this financial year. Robotic scavenging machine at Thiruvarur provided to replace manual scavengers was one such. Coordinated by NGO- Hand In Hand Inclusive Development and Services, Chennai, the machines, each costing Rs. 45.00 lakh, have been supplied to Cuddalore, Mayiladuthurai, Ramanathapuram, Virudhunagar, and Thanjavur districts. Anurag ,Asset Manager (officiating ), said on Tuesday after hoisting the National flag. A 1,000 Litre Water RO plant has been installed at Thiruvarur Medical College with a financial implication of Rs. 12.88 lakh (with 3 years annual maintenance included) to benefit the visitors. Thirty individual house-hold latrines have been constructed at Kuthalam in Myladuthurai district at the cost of Rs. 6.90 lakh for 200 beneficiaries, and 50 LED Street Light Fittings at a cost of Rs. 2.5 lakh have been provided, a Selection Grade Town Panchayat. The other initiatives include donation of furniture items for Government girls higher secondary school, Kuthalam, at a cost of Rs. 6.32 lakh for the benefit of 300 students. As a responsible corporate, Asset has contributed Rs. 1.0 crore as covid assistance to Nagapattinam, Thiruvarur,Tanjore & Karaikal districts. An amount of Rs. 45.0 lakh given to complete 17 projects in Kollidam Panchayat, Mr. Anurag said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cauvery-asset-executed-120-projects/article33671295.ece
27 January 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Low-key celebrations in Krishnagiri||Collector V. Jayachandra Bhanu Reddy unfurled the Tri-colour, marking the 72nd Republic Day celebrations at the district sports complex here on Tuesday. The celebrations were devoid of the usual cultural extravaganza put out by school students every year owing to COVID-19 prorocols. Over 48 police personnel were given the Chief Minister’s medal for service excellence. Similarly, 119 government staff of various departments were felicitated with shields and certificates. Welfare benefits to the tune of Rs. 35.74 lakh were distributed to 25 beneficiaries. Later, the Collector visited the home of late freedom fighter Shanmugam and felicitated his wife Saroja with shawl. The Collector along with Superintendent of Police Bandi Gangadar released doves as a mark of peace. District Forest Officer Prabhu was among the dignitaries present. In Dharmapuri, Collector S.P. Karthika unfurled the Tri-colour at the district sports complex and accepted the guard of honour. The occasion witnessed felicitation of 290 people from various line departments including the sanitation workers and health workers. Superintendent of Police Pravesh Kumar, District Revenue Officer K. Ramamoorthy, and Sub Collector Prathap were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/low-key-celebrations-in-krishnagiri/article33671338.ece
27 January 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Police introduce ‘e-beat system’||Madurai City Police on Tuesday introduced ‘e-beat system’ that would help officials monitor with their mobile phones whether police personnel are making their routine rounds. Commissioner of Police Prem Anand Sinha said the new system was only to leverage technological advancement in replacing patta passbooks with QR code stickers. Under conventional policing method, all personnel were given the task of visiting important spots in their jurisdictions during routine rounds. To check their compliance with the duty routine, patta passbooks are kept at banks, ATMs, markets and crime-prone areas, in which the police personnel have to sign and mention the time of their visit. “Often it becomes a big task for Station House Officers to go to those places and check entries in the patta passbook. Besides, there are possibilities of some police personnel making entries in a short span of time without making routine rounds,” said Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order) R. Shiva Prasad. Software for the new system has been uploaded in the mobile phones of all police personnel. All that they need to do is to scan the QR codes in their respective jurisdictions. The global positioning system-enabled technology will identify each spot with the GPS coordinates. “Officials above the rank of Inspector will be able to check the data in their phones that would provide the details of police personnel visiting each location with the time of their visits,” Mr. Sinha said. The system gives real-time data. The Commissioner said the system was fool-proof as it gave the exact times and locations of police personnel while uploading scanned images of QR codes. Mr. Sinha said the police were planning to encourage city residents to use locked door registers to inform them before going out of station. “We will have separate QR codes for each house and additional beats would be introduced for the police to keep a tab on those locked houses,” he added. The Commissioner also flagged off renovated four-wheeler and two-wheeler patrol vehicles carrying sirens and flash lights to increase visible policing. Deputy Commissioners K. Palanikumar (Crime), K. Sugumaran (Traffic) and Baskaran (Headquarters) were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-introduce-e-beat-system/article33671317.ece
27 January 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||VC stresses patriotic spirit at Republic Day speech||Vice-Chancellor M. Krishnan hoisted the national flag at Madurai Kamaraj University on Tuesday and delivered the Republic Day speech. He insisted that everyone should be patriotic and should abide by the Constitution. Syndicate members, professors and administrative staff participated in the event. At Madurai Kamaraj University College, Principal B. George unfurled the national flag and addressed the gathering. He highlighted the efforts of freedom fighters during the Independence struggle. Patriotic fervour marked the Republic Day celebration at Lady Doak College. Principal and Secretary Christianna Singh welcomed the gathering. Suganda Ramamoorthi, Associate Professor of Economics, was the chief guest of the event. Ms. Ramamoorthi hoisted the national flag and delivered the Republic Day address. At Al AMeen Higher Secondary School, Principal Sheik Nabi unfurled the national flag. Principal of The American College M. Davamani Christober hoisted the national flag and inspected the Guard of Honour by NCC cadets and NSS students. He also hoisted tri-colour on The American College Satellite Campus at Chatrapatti. Tamil Nadu Foodgrains Merchants Association president S.P. Jeyapragasam hoisted the national flag and delivered the Republic Day address. Association’s V.K. Muthusamy Nadar Hall was inaugurated on the occasion. Tamil Nadu Chamber of Commerce and Industry president N. Jegatheesan unfurled the national flag and delivered a speech during the occasion. At Victoria Edward Hall, president P. Sodalai unfurled the national flag.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vc-stresses-patriotic-spirit-at-republic-day-speech/article33671426.ece
27 January 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Collector honours police personnel, govt. officials||District Collector T. Anbalagan unfurled the national flag at the Armed Reserve Police Ground here at 8.04 a.m. on Tuesday on the occasion of the Republic Day. Accompanied by Superintendent of Police Sujit Kumar, the Collector inspected the Guard of Honour and took the salute by contingents of the police and Tamil Nadu Fire and Rescue Services personnel, Home Guards and National Cadet Corps. The Collector presented awards to 149 police personnel who were chosen for this year’s Chief Minister’s Award. Mr. Anbalagan awarded 263 officials from various government departments in recognition of their works. Welfare assistance to the tune of Rs. 21.20 lakh through various departments was given to 96 beneficiaries. The Collector visited the residences of seven freedom fighters to felicitate them each with a shawl and a box of sweets. The Republic Day celebrations were a low-key affair this time owing to the COVID-19 pandemic as there were no cultural events by school and college students, a regular feature in normal times. Inspector General of Police (South Zone) S. Murugan, Madurai Police Commissioner Prem Anand Sinha and revenue officials were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/collector-honours-police-personnel-govt-officials/article33671432.ece
27 January 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Corporation employees, volunteers recognised for their service||Recognition of Madurai Corporation officials and volunteers for their exemplary performance during the COVID-19 pandemic marked the Republic Day celebrations at Arignar Anna Maligai here on Tuesday. Corporation Commissioner S. Visakan unfurled the national flag. He awarded 80 Corporation employees, including doctors, nurses, engineers, sanitary workers and health inspectors, for their selfless work during the COVID-19 pandemic and contribution in development projects of the city. Fifteen employees of Hi-Tech Arai (Pvt.) Limited, who volunteered to distribute vegetables and essential commodities to the public during the lockdown, were also recognised by the Commissioner. Two volunteers, Geetha Kannan and A. Edwin Joy, who prepared a large quantity of kabasura kudineer every day during the lockdown for public distribution, were also awarded. City Engineer S. Arasu and City Health Officer P. Kumaraguruparan were also present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corporation-employees-volunteers-recognised-for-their-service/article33671430.ece
27 January 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Women comprise over 50% of RPF contingent at Republic Day event||Divisional Railway Manager V.R. Lenin unfurled the tri-colour on the occasion of the 72nd Republic Day celebrations at Red Field Ground at Railway Colony here on Tuesday. For the first time, women comprised more than 50% of Railway Protection Force contingent that presented the Guard of Honour to the chief guest. Speaking at the event, Mr. Lenin said COVID-19-related challenges led to decline in the revenue of the division to Rs. 260.13 crore up to December 2020 as against the actual earnings of Rs. 632.62 crore in the corresponding period of the previous year. Though there was a severe decline in passenger revenue, the division had generated a revenue of Rs. 190.97 crore in goods traffic till December – 23.1% higher than the actual earnings of the corresponding period of the previous year and 18.5% higher than the current fiscal target. The division loaded cargo weighing 1.699 million tonnes up to December as against the last year’s loading of 1.282 million tonnes – a growth of 32.6%. In December, one rake consisting of 25 NMG wagons loaded with tractors moved to Benapole, Bangladesh – the first inter-country traffic from Southern Railway. In total, 61 rakes of tractors had been loaded in this financial year, generating a revenue of Rs. 11.79 crore. Revenue from fertilizer traffic till December was Rs. 139.9 crore – 42.7% higher than the corresponding period of the previous year. The Railway Hospital here had treated more than 500 COVID patients without affecting the regular outpatient and inpatient services of railway employees, he said. Mr. Lenin said electrification works in Madurai-Manamadurai section (50 km) was targeted for completion in February and Manamadurai-Mandapam section (117 km) in September. An RPF dog show was the major attraction of the celebration. Additional Divisional Railway Manager Lalit Kumar Mansukhani, Senior Divisional Personnel Officer C. Sudhagaran, Divisional Security Commissioner C.J. Anbarasu were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/women-comprise-over-50-of-rpf-contingent-at-republic-day-event/article33671310.ece
27 January 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Photo exhibition on ‘Tamed Tuskers’ inaugurated||Awareness must be created among the urban populace on how to treat elephants. Elephants were empathetic beings and should be treated with care, said Forest Veterinarian N. Kalaivanan at a photo exhibition of renowned photographer R. Senthil Kumaran, titled ‘Tamed Tuskers’, held at JC Residency here on Tuesday. Over 20 photographs of elephants were on display at the exhibition. Encroachments by the urban population on the natural habitats of elephants had put the animals under much stress and caused man-animal conflict. The increase in the instances of the conflict was a cause for concern, said Mr. Senthil Kumaran. He said rapid urbanisation was a reason for the conflict. Mining within forest areas was sanctioned and this affected the elephant habitats. Elaborating on man-animal conflict, he said in the last 10 years at least 630 elephants had lost their lives due to electrocution and at least 2,300 people were killed in the last five years. He said not all elephants attacked people and pointed to one instance where an elephant that had killed 23 people was captured and sent to an elephant camp. The elephant was now the calmest in the camp, he added. Mr. Kalaivanan and Mr. Senthil Kumaran explained the photographs to the guests who had been invited to the event. The photo exhibition will go on till July.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/photo-exhibition-on-tamed-tuskers-inaugurated/article33671424.ece
27 January 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Sourashtra Small Business Association launches job exchange||Sourashtra Small Business Association (SSBA), which focuses on small and micro business development, has launched a job exchange in memory of C.S. Ramachary, founder-chairman of Sitalakshmi Mills. President of the SSBA C.R. Venkatesh said that the job exchange located on Kamarajar Salai would be a full time office and serve as a platform for facilitating interaction between job seekers and providers. The office would be open from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. An employment portal would also be launched soon, he said. The inauguration was held in the presence of Madurai South MLA S.S. Saravanan. Further information would soon be available onwww.ssba.in, said a press release from the SSBA.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sourashtra-small-business-association-launches-job-exchange/article33671427.ece
27 January 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Floral tributes to Mahatma||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Tuesday celebrated the 72nd Republic Day. Administrative Judge of the High Court Bench Justice M.M. Sundresh unfurled the national flag. The event began with the Judges offering floral tributes to Mahatma Gandhi statue. Justice Sundresh inspected the Guard of Honour and took the salute by Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) and police personnel. High Court driver Ayyappan was presented with a gold medal at the event for having completed 20 years in service, as per a government order that provides for such medals to the government drivers who have put in 20 years of service. High Court staff member Kannan presented a patriotic song. In view of the COVID-19 pandemic situation, the event had a limited number of participants and there was no display of cultural, traditional and martial arts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/floral-tributes-to-mahatma/article33671318.ece
27 January 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||President’s medal for CBI sleuth||A. Dhamotharan, a sleuth of the Anti-Corruption Bureau, Central Bureau of Investigation, Madurai unit, has been awarded President’s Police Medal for meritorious service. A native of Kovilpatti, Mr. Dhamotharan has put in 35 years of service in the Central investigative agency. He had served long in Chennai and Delhi before moving to Madurai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/presidents-medal-for-cbi-sleuth/article33671422.ece
27 January 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||L-G urges people to avoid rumours on vaccines||Puducherry Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi on Tuesday requested people to avoid rumours on the COVID-19 vaccination programme. In her Republic Day address, the Lt. Governor said, “Our scientists and experts have allowed emergency use only after they were confident about the safety and impact of the vaccines. Therefore, citizens have to avoid any kind of false propaganda, rumours and erroneous information about the COVID-19 vaccine.” “Indian scientists have developed two ‘Made in India’ vaccines as proof of the country’s strength and scientific proficiency,” Ms. Bedi said. Hailing the contribution of elected representatives, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) officials and various NGOs in controlling the spread of the virus in the Union Territory, the Lt. Governor said the region had set an example for the whole nation in the battle against COVID-19. “Wear face masks, maintain a physical distance of 6 ft and ensure frequent sanitation. I hope we will be soon out of this pandemic with the cooperation of all citizens,” Ms. Bedi said. She also stressed the need for continued vigil. Ms. Bedi listed out the various achievements of the government, including the disbursement of Rs. 2,000 to all ration cardholders during the lockdown period. The government, amid various challenges, had made efforts to fulfil the aspirations of the public, she added. In restricted celebrations at the Indira Gandhi Sports Complex at Uppalam, the Lt. Governor unfurled the tricolour and inspected the guard of honour. The celebrations were restricted to a march-past by various contingents of the territorial police, the India Reserve Battalions (IRB), fire services personnel and ex-servicemen. Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy, Speaker V.P. Sivakolundhu and senior officials attended the event. Mr. Narayanasamy also unfurled the national flag at the Legislative Assembly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/l-g-urges-people-to-avoid-rumours-on-vaccines/article33671515.ece
27 January 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Farmers take out tractor rally||The Federation of Farmers’ Associations of Puducherry, supported by the Congress and the Left parties, took out a tractor rally across the city on Tuesday to express solidarity with ryots protesting in Delhi to press for repeal of the new farm laws. Farmers from across the region assembled about 50 tractors for the rally that began at the AFT Grounds and passed through New Bus Stand, Indira Gandhi Statue, Rajiv Gandhi Statue, Sivaji Statue, ECR bypass, Muthialpet, Ajantha Signal, Anna Square and Ambedkar Statue before concluding at the Port. Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy, V. Vaithilingam, MP, Welfare Minister M. Kandasamy and Left leaders took part in the rally. Addressing the farmers at the AFT Grounds, the Chief Minister condemned the use of force by the police against farmers staging peaceful protests in Delhi. He accused the BJP-ruled Centre of betraying the interests of farmers after coming to power with the promise to support them. The three new farm laws were anti-farmers. In spite of the farmers agitating for over two months in Delhi, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had not met them even once for negotiations, he said. Mr. Narayanasamy said farmers were encouraged to engage in agriculture in Puducherry because the government implemented several supportive schemes, such as Rs. 25,000 per hectare aid, free power and crop insurance.  Procession in Cuddalore Farmers owing allegiance to the All India Farmers’ Protest Coordination Committee (AIFPCC) on Tuesday took out a procession with buffaloes in Kattumannarkovil to register their strong protest against the Centre’s continued “indifferent” attitude towards their demand for revoking the three farm laws. According to K.V. Elangeeran, State committee member of AIFPCC, “The farmers had originally planned to take out a procession of tractors in Cuddalore on Republic Day to express their solidarity with the agitating farmers in New Delhi. However, with the police denying them permission for the procession and threatening to impound the vehicles, the farmers decided to take out a procession of buffaloes instead.” Instead of helping the ryots who were struggling to sell their produce amid the pandemic, the government had enacted the farm laws to benefit big corporate entities. The protests by farmers will continue until the three anti-farmers legislations are withdrawn, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-take-out-tractor-rally/article33671519.ece
27 January 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||U.T. adds 32 cases to tally||Puducherry added 32 COVID-19 cases to its tally while 17 patients recovered and were discharged on Tuesday. No deaths were reported in the last 24 hours in the Union Territory. The highest number of new cases, which were confirmed from 3,276 tests, were in Mahe (15), followed by Puducherry (12), Karaikal (three) and Yanam (two). The active cases in the Union Territory remained below the 300-mark at 295 while the total stood at 38,910 cases. There have been 645 deaths and 37,970 patients have recovered to date. The test positivity rate was 0.97%, case fatality rate 1.66% and recovery rate 97.58%. The Health Department has so far carried out 5.62 lakh tests, of which 5.1 lakh samples returned negative. Cuddalore district reported four fresh cases of COVID-19 on Tuesday, taking the tally to 24,897. While 24,582 persons have been discharged, the active cases stand at 19. In Villupuram district, one person tested positive, taking the total number of positive cases in the district to 15,165. No fresh case was reported in Kallakurichi district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ut-adds-32-cases-to-tally/article33671518.ece
27 January 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||People will decide on opportunistic politicians: CM||Responding to former Minister A. Namassivayam’s decision to quit the Congress party, Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy on Tuesday said people would decide the fate of politicians who play “opportunistic politics and change the colour of their party flag often”. “We have seen the fate of persons who played opportunistic politics and changed the colour of party flags for personal gains. The people will decide their fate,” he said participating in a signature campaign launched by the Secular Democratic Alliance, seeking the recall of Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi, at Anna Thidal. The Chief Minister said Mr. Namassivayam handled several portfolios, including Public Works Department, Local Administration, Excise and Town Planning. “Let him prove the charge against me that I have not allowed him to function. He used to bring the file personally and get it signed,” he said. Questioning the decision of the former Minister to quit the government, citing the Chief Minister’s confrontational approach with the Centre and the Lt. Governor, the Chief Minister said Mr. Namassivayam was part of all the agitations against the Centre and the Lt. Governor for the last four and a half years. “He was part of the day and night agitation against the Lt. Governor in front of Raj Nivas. He also filed a case challenging the appointment of the State Election Commissioner. The Minister then didn’t feel anything like confronting the Centre or the Lt. Governor,” the Chief Minister said. Speaking on the occasion, Social Welfare Minister M. Kandasamy said the Centre was trying to threaten politicians in the Union Territory using investigating agencies, forcing them to join the BJP. “Those who fear will leave the party. Now, the same agencies should be used against those joining the BJP.” The Congress would expose those who have decided to join the BJP, he said adding the fight would continue till the rights of the elected government were restored. The government was not able to implement many of the schemes because of the interference of the Centre and the Lt. Governor, he said. Others who participated in the signature campaign included CPI secretary A.M. Saleem, former Minister R. Viswanathan, CPI (M) leaders Rajangam and T. Murugan and leaders belonging to the VCK and other outfits.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/people-will-decide-on-opportunistic-politicians-cm/article33671302.ece
27 January 2021||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||16 fishermen hailed for rescuing, releasing dugongs into sea||Sixteen fishermen of Pudukottai district who were involved in the rescue and release of dugongs - a marine mammal - in a span of one year have been appreciated by the district administration for their role in the conservation of the marine mammal and the marine ecosystem. While 12 fishermen are from Therkku Pudhukudi village, four others are from Vadakku Pudhukudi. Appreciation certificates signed by the District Collector P. Uma Maheswari were given to each fishermen on the occasion of the Republic Day celebrations on Tuesday besides to three Forest Department personnel including the Forest Range Officer of Aranthangi M. Sadhasivam for their guidance to the fishermen and their role in conservation of the marine mammal. District Forest Officer, Pudukottai K. Sudhagar told The Hindu that four dugongs in three separate incidents got entangled in the nets of fishermen in a span of one year. In all these incidents, the fishermen rescued the four sea mammals and released them into the sea with the guidance of the Forest Department personnel. The Department had been driving home to the fishermen the need to protect the dugongs which play an important role in protecting the marine ecosystem, Mr. Sudhakar said adding that this awareness had prompted the fishermen to rescue and release the sea mammals back into the sea again. By rescuing and releasing the dugongs back into the sea, the fishermen have not only played a vital role in the conservation of the marine mammals but also in protecting the marine ecosystem, Mr. Sudhakar further said. The Forest Department had recommended that the role played by the fishermen and the field-level forest department personnel should be recognised and the district administration appreciated the efforts taken by them by presenting each one of them with certificates. The appreciation certificates would motivate the fishermen and the field-level Forest Department staff in the conservation of the dugongs and the protection of the marine ecosystem, Mr. Sudhakar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/16-fishermen-hailed-for-rescuing-releasing-dugongs-into-sea/article33671192.ece
27 January 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Increase in revenue due to long-term contracts for cargo trains: DRM||A major achievement of the Salem Railway Division in increasing revenue was that of entering into long- term contracts for parcel cargo express trains for Rs. 165 crore of which the division had earned Rs. 2.8 crore so far, said A. Gautam Srinivas, Divisional Railway Manager, Salem Division, here on Tuesday. Addressing at the Divisional Railway Manager’s Office, after unfurling the national flag, he said the Business Development Unit of the division played a vital role in capturing new traffic like transportation of harvester machines and mosquito nets that helped increase its revenue. He said in spite of the loss due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the division had loaded 2.08 million tonnes of freight and earned Rs. 158 crore in freight earnings. The division had spent Rs. 20 crore for provision of passenger amenities such as lifts, escalators, foot over-bridges and other facilities in various stations in the division. To improve the reliability of assets and safety, 16 major bridge rehabilitation works had been completed, 39 km of track renewal carried out and fire detection alarms had been provided at 10 stations. “To enhance the safety and security of women passengers, Saheli teams have been formed in three major stations,” he added. The DRM said works were in progress for provision of water recycling plants at five railway stations in the division and added that generation of solar energy had resulted in a saving Rs. 25 lakh. During the lockdown, the division moved essential commodities through freight trains and helped migrants reach their homes through Shramik Special Trains. As many as 40 coaches were converted as COVID-19 coaches for isolation and the Loco Sheds at Erode contributed in supplying sanitisers, he added. A. Annadurai, Additional Divisional Railway Manager, K.V. Rathish Babu, Assistant Security Commissioner, and other officers and staff of the division were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/increase-in-revenue-due-to-long-term-contracts-for-cargo-trains-drm/article33671189.ece
27 January 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Accused who escaped from custody nabbed||An accused in two-wheeler lifting cases, who escaped from police custody at Attur bus stand on January 23, was nabbed by the police at Tirupattur on Monday night. Chakravarthi, who stole two-wheelers in Salem, Namakkal and Kallakurichi districts, was nabbed recently by Rasipuram Police and lodged in a sub-jail. On Saturday, Sub-Inspector Subramani and constable Mustafa produced him in a court in Kallakurichi and were returning to the sub-jail in Rasipuram. At Attur bus stand, the three got down from a bus and were moving to board another to Rasipuram. Suddenly, Chakravarthi pushed the two and fled the spot. Subramani suffered injuries and was admitted to the Government Hospital at Attur. The incident was recorded in the CCTV camera in the bus stand. A special team nabbed him from a hideout at Natrampalli village.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/accused-who-escaped-from-custody-nabbed/article33671185.ece
27 January 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Republic Day celebrations held with scaled-down activities||Hoisting of flags, and distribution of medals to police personnel and welfare assistance to eligible persons marked the Republic Day celebrations held at Thanjavur and Tiruvarur districts on Tuesday. While the Collector, M.Govinda Rao hoisted the National Flag at the Police Parade Ground at Thanjavur, the Collector, V.Santha unfurled the tricolour at the Sports Stadium in the District Collectorate complex at Tiruvarur. Certificates were given to the government servants and police personnel of the respective districts for their exemplary services during the COVID-19 pandemic situation. The Collectors also distributed welfare assistance under various schemes to the beneficiaries. Ariyalur Collector D. Rathna hoisted the tricolour. She inspected and accepted the guard of honour by the Armed Reserve police personnel. Superintendent of Police V.R. Srinivasan accompanied her. Ms. Rathna released pigeons and saloons to mark Republic Day. She later gave away the Chief Minister medals to 28 policemen for meritorious service. She also presented meritorious certificates to 348 personnel. A. Muthukumarasamy, freedom fighter, was presented with a shawl by a senior revenue official at his house at Melanikuzhi. Karur Collector S. Malarvizhi hoisted the national flag. Accompanied by Superintendent of Police P. Pagalavan, the Collector inspected the parade of Armed Reserve police personnel. As many as 39 police personnel were given the Chief Minister’s medal for the exemplary service. Ms. Malarvizhi also gave away certificates to 44 personnel for their role in containing COVID -19 virus in the district. Pudukottai Collector P. Uma Maheswari unfurled the national flag. The Collector presented Chief Minister's medal to 63 police personnel of the district and appreciation certificates to 162 officials. The Collector later went to the residence of late freedom fighter Sivaprakasam in Pudukottai town and presented a 'Khadi' shawl and prizes to his wife Manimekalai. Superintendent of Police L. Balaji Saravanan, District Revenue Officer P.V. Saravanan and officials participated. Perambalur Collector P. Sri Venkata Priya unfurled the national flag. The Collector inspected the ceremonial march past of the police personnel. The Collector gave away appreciation certificates to 74 government officials and workers for their excellent service rendered in curbing COVID-19. She also gave away the Chief Minister's medal to 23 police personnel. Nagapattinam Collector Pravin P. Nair honoured employees of District Rural Development Agency, Revenue, Social Welfare and other departments, in recognition of their excellence in service. Certificates of appreciation were handed over to 187 persons. In all, benefits worth Rs. 84.44 lakh were handed over to 95 persons. Karaikal Collector Arjun Sharma inspected the guard of honour by the police personnel and honoured freedom fighters. In his address, the Collector praised the support provided by ONGC, GAIL and other such entities and handed over certificates of appreciation to officials of the organisations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/republic-day-celebrations-held-with-scaled-down-activities/article33671285.ece
27 January 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Collector honours frontline workers on Republic Day||Collector S. Sivarasu hoisted the national flag to celebrate 72nd Republic Day at the Armed Reserve ground here on Tuesday. Accompanied by Superintendent of Police (in-charge) T. Senthilkumar, he inspected the guard of honour of the Armed Reserve police by travellilng on a decorated jeep. He also released balloons to mark the occasion. Mr. Sivarasu later gave away certificates to 534 officers and employees of various departments for their meritorious service. Doctors, nurses, paramedical staff members, and other frontline workers were among those who distributed certificates for their service in the COVID-19. The officials of the department of public health were also awarded. J. Loganathan, Commissioner of Police, Tiruchi city, Z. Annie Vijaya, Deputy Inspector General of Police, Tiruchi range, and A. Bavankumar Reddy, Deputy Commissioner, Law and Order, Tiruchi, were among those participated. Due to COVID-19 restrictions, the district administration preferred to do away with the cultural programmes usually associated with the Republic Day celebrations. Similarly, except the officials and the policemen, others were discouraged from witnessing the celebrations in person. Earlier, the Collector placed a wreath at the war memorial at Gandhi Market. Corporation Commissioner S. Sivasubramanian hoisted the national flag at the function held in front of the Tiruchi Corporation building. S. Amuthavalli, City Engineer, was among those who participated. He also gave away certificates to 18 personnel for the service in the fight against COVID-19. S. Palani, Superintending Engineer, State Highways, presided over the Republic Day programme held at its office in T.V.S. Tolgate. Divisional Engineer P. Vadivel, and senior officials present. IIM Tiruchi celebrated theRepublic Day by initiating a tree plantation drive. About 100 saplings were planted on the campus and 300 more are to be planted during the course of this week. The celebrations began with hoisting of the National flag by Director in-charge Godwin Tennyson.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/collector-honours-frontline-workers-on-republic-day/article33671287.ece
27 January 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Motorcycle, tractor rallies taken out despite denial of police nod||Members of various trade unions and a section of farmers, under the banner of the All India Farmers’ Struggle Coordination Committee, took out a motorcycle rally in Tiruchi on Tuesday in defiance of prohibitory orders to express solidarity with farmers who took out a tractor rally in Delhi to oppose the new farm laws. Tense moments were witnessed after trade union members assembled near the MGR roundabout with motorcycles and got involved in a scuffle with the police, who tried to prevent them from going ahead with their plan. However, the trade union members did not relent and went ahead, leading to a tense situation. The members finally took out the rally. Members of the Labour Progressive Front, AITUC, CITU, INTUC, HMS and AICCTU took part. All India Farmers’ Struggle Coordination Committee Tiruchi district organiser Ayilai Sivasuriyan and some farmers also participated. Police sources said around 250 members took part in the motorcycle rally. Ayyakannu arrested Desiya Thennindhiya Nadhigal Inaippu Vivasayigal Sangam State president P. Ayyakannu and 33 others were arrested on the outskirts of Tiruchi after they staged a road roko on the Chennai ByPass road. The group had come with some tractors to take out a rally. Police sources said they were later released.  In Pudukottai, a group of over 100 trade union members, representatives of the Congress, the DMK and Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi, besides those from farmers organisations, staged a demonstration at Thilagar Thidal for over an hour. In Perambalur town, a group of around 100 members associated with the All India Farmers’ Struggle Coordination Committee assembled near the old bus stand with a few tractors to take out a rally. As they were prevented by the police, they raised slogans and dispersed, said police sources.  Police pushed aside A tractor rally by the All India Farmers Protests Coordination Committee, Thanjavur unit, was held despite curbs imposed by the police in Thanjavur. MLAs and organisers of the rally led by the AIFPC Thanajavur unit coordinator, N.V. Kannan, told police officials that the rally would be held. When the police made attempts to check the progress of the rally towards the town, they were pushed aside. However, the protesters were prevented firmly by the police from proceeding beyond the new bus stand area. Rally in Tirunelveli Cadres of the Opposition parties took out a motorbike rally in Tirunelveli in support of farmers protesting in New Delhi and against the fuel price hike. “The unprecedented fuel price hike, which has hit hard people from all walks of life, should be withdrawn. The Narendra Modi-led government should consider the genuine demands of protesting farmers. If not, the people’s protest will bring the government down,” Abdul Wahab, Tirunelveli city district secretary of the DMK, said. In Tenkasi, over 2,000 cadre from the Opposition parties participated in the bike rally. Padmanabhapuram MLA S. Mano Thangaraj took out a cycle rally, along with a few people, from Manali near Thuckalay to the Anna Stadium in Nagercoil, where the Republic Day celebrations were held. “Even after the unprecedented slump in the international oil price, the Modi-led BJP government is robbing the people,” he charged. Members of various farmers’ associations and trade bodies took out a rally in Virudhunagar. Tamil Nadu Vivasayigal Sangam district secretary V. Murugan and leader of the protest coordination committee Kalidass took part. Narayanasamy protests The Federation of Farmers’ Associations of Puducherry, supported by the Congress and the Left parties, took out a tractor rally across Puducherry. Farmers from across the region assembled about 50 tractors for the rally that began at the AFT Grounds and passed through New Bus Stand, Indira Gandhi Statue, Rajiv Gandhi Statue, Sivaji Statue, ECR bypass, Muthialpet, Ajantha Signal, Anna Square and Ambedkar Statue before concluding at the Port. Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy, V. Vaithilingam, MP, Welfare Minister M. Kandasamy and Left leaders took part in the rally. Addressing the farmers at the AFT Grounds, the Puducherry Chief Minister condemned the use of force by the police against the farmers staging protests in Delhi. He accused the BJP-ruled Centre of betraying the interests of farmers after coming to power with a promise to support them. The three new laws were anti-farmers. In spite of the farmers agitating for over two months in Delhi, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had not met them even once for negotiations, he said.  (With inputs from R. Rajaram in Tiruchi, V. Venkatasubramanian in Thanjavur, P. Sudhakar in Tirunelveli and M. Dinesh Varma in Puducherry)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/support-pours-in-for-farmers-protesting-in-delhi/article33671181.ece
27 January 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Tiruchi Railway Division loads 6.3 million tonnes of freight||The Tiruchi Railway Division has loaded 6.309 million tonnes of different types of commodities to various destinations across the country in the current fiscal up to December 2020, Divisional Railway Manager Ajay Kumar said on Tuesday. Speaking at the Republic Day celebrations held here, Mr. Ajay Kumar said the redevelopment works at Tiruchi Junction was in the final stages. The work of establishing two escalators at Tiruchi Junction connecting both ends of the foot over bridge had been completed. Work on four additional escalators at Tiruchi Junction was in progress. The Integrated Emergency Response System (Video Surveillance System) were provided at Kumbakonam, Thanjavur, Mayiladuthurai and Villupuram stations, he said adding that it would help to improve safety and security of passengers in the station premises. Republic Day celebration at the Golden Rock Railway Workshop here was organised inside the workshop premises duly ensuring social distancing norms. Chief Workshop Manager Shyamadhar Ram unfurled the national flag and received the parade salute by four platoons consisting of Railway Protection Force (RPF) personnel, St. John's Ambulance Brigade, Bharat Scouts and Guides and Trainees of the Workshop Training Centre. In his Republic Day speech, Mr. Shyamadhar Ram highlighted various achievements of the workshop during 2020-21 in general. Leadership awards were distributed to five officers and 22 supervisors in recognition of the exemplary initiatives taken by them in productivity, quality, reliability, safety and staff welfare in the workshop. Award of excellence was given to 79 supervisors and staff for their outstanding contribution and stupendous performance. Five prizes were announced for the best innovations carried out in this workshop this year in order to harness the innovative and creative culture in the workshop premises. As part of the celebrations, 200 tree saplings were planted in the workshop premises, a press release here said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruchi-railway-division-loads-63-million-tonnes-of-freight/article33671290.ece
27 January 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Making of new products planned in BHEL||Development of new products has been planned at BHEL Tiruchi in line with the roadmap of corporate office, according to T.S. Murali, General Manager and Head. Unfurling the national tricolour here on Tuesday, Mr. Murali said declaration of 2021 as 'Year of Decisive Action' and formation of a 'Make in India' Business Development Group by the BHEL Corporation, and the Aatma Nirbhar Bharat Abhiyan initiatives of the Central Government will reflect in every employee making all-out efforts with efficiency and swiftness to complete the task of achieving the targets for the current financial year. Award BHEL Tiruchi, with its vibrant and young workforce, has the potential to overcome all challenges, Mr. Murali said, referring to the Order of Merit award bagged by five employees in the 'inspirational or transformational performance during Covid-19' category at the 2020 edition of the Skoch Awards for innovative products developed in-house to curb the spread of the pandemic. Quality Circles of BHEL Tiruchi had won prizes at the BHEL Annual Quality Circle Summit including the best presentation award among major BHEL units. Mr. Murali said that the American Petroleum Institute (API) had granted BHEL, Tiruchi, the right to use its monogram for the API-6A, API-16C, and API-17D classes of oil-field equipment manufactured by the Valves division. Productivity improvement projects by employees also secured a large number of awards besides BHEL's own corporate Excel awards. The BHEL, Tiruchi, was undertaking Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) and social development projects in diversified areas including education, community development, health, environment protection and enrichment, vocational training and skill development. At Arivalayam, BHEL's special school and vocational centre for differently-abled children Sowmya Murali, Patron, unfurled the National Flag in the presence of Mr K Nagarajan, General Manager, Outsourcing and President, Arivalayam; managing trustees, teachers and staff.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/making-of-new-products-planned-in-bhel/article33671294.ece
27 January 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||52 fresh cases of COVID-19 reported in central districts||Fifty two fresh cases of COVID-19 were reported in central districts on Tuesday. According to the Health Department medical bulletin, maximum number of cases was reported in Tiruchi and Nagapattinam districts, with 14 each, followed by Tiruvarur with 10 cases. There were nine cases in Thanjavur. While the daily case count in Pudukottai was three, Ariyalur and Karur recorded one case each. No one was diagnosed for the COVID-19 virus in Perambalur district. Nagapattinam topped the districts with the discharge of 23 patients, who had been receiving treatment for COVID-19 in various hospitals. Thirteen patients were discharged in Tiruchi district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/52-fresh-cases-of-covid-19-reported-in-central-districts/article33671300.ece
27 January 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||SCOPE Founder Subburaman conferred with Padma Shri Award||Marachi Subburaman, the founder of Society for Community Organisation and People’s Education (SCOPE), has made Tiruchi proud by becoming the city’s first Padma Shri awardee for social work. A proponent of eco-friendly sanitation and water conservation, Mr. Subburaman, a Chemistry graduate from Periyar E.V.R College, has been active in social work from the 1970s, when he joined Village Reconstruction Organisation (VRO), an NGO in Guntur, Andhra Pradesh, which works towards the construction of cost-effective homes in rural areas. Being mentored by VRO founder Father Michael Windey, and later, by K.Govindaraju, who heads the Society for Education Village Action and Improvement (SEVAI) in Tiruchi, Mr. Subburaman has been making people understand the value of living in harmony with their environment. SCOPE was founded in 1986, and since then, has been working on providing toilets and reducing open defecation in rural areas, besides empowering women with income-generation skills. It has installed more than 20,000 closed system Eco-San flush-less toilets in Tamil Nadu alone, and over one lakh units across 26 states in the country. The bio-waste is recycled as agricultural manure. “Today, more than ever, we have to save our water resources, because it is the foundation of our life. Whether through rainwater harvesting, efficient irrigation or eco-friendly toilets, the ultimate aim should be to stop ourselves from wasting water,” Mr. Subburaman told The Hindu . To this end, Mr. Subburaman has converted his residence in Ramalinga Nagar into a working showcase of eco-friendly lifestyle choices. In addition to a rainwater harvesting unit that supplies 2,000 litres of drinking water, the house has a low-tech sanitary napkin incinerator, environmentally sound toilets and a bio-gas plant that reuses wet kitchen waste. Sixteen solar panels supply 1500 watts of energy to power household appliances. Mr. Subburaman, 71 years, feels honoured to have been chosen for the Padma Shri. “Today, many young men and women have started pursuing higher education in rural areas. I hope they will select courses that will ultimately guide them towards an ethical lifestyle,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/scope-founder-subburaman-conferred-with-padma-shri-award/article33671276.ece
27 January 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Tiruchi airport received over 90,000 passengers during pandemic||Tiruchi international airport had received more than 90,000 passengers during the COVID-19 pandemic with 600 services catering to 11 countries directly and many nations indirectly, Airport Director S. Dharmaraj said on Tuesday. Speaking at the Republic Day celebrations organised at the airport premises, Mr. Dharmaraj said Tiruchi airport had regular weekly flights from Abu Dhabi, Doha, Dammam and Kuwait under the Vande Bharat Missions. The Tiruchi airport had obtained no objection certificate for the construction of a new technical block - cum- Air Traffic Control Tower and the construction works would begin after the completion of the tendering process. On the cargo front, Mr. Dharmaraj said the Tiruchi airport had handled over 1,400 metric tonnes of freight during COVID-19 pandemic from July to December 2020. New flight information display system with an automated announcement had been commissioned at the airport at a cost of Rs. 1.24 crore. We had been constantly pursuing with the Chief Engineer of the National Highways Authority of India, Chennai for the provision of an underpass on the Pudukottai highway on safety grounds, he said. As for land acquisition, he said 5.5 acres of land at Kottapattu had been taken over for provision of a simple approach lighting system and works were in progress. Substantial progress had been made in land acquisition front, he further said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruchi-airport-received-over-90000-passengers-during-covid-19-pandemic/article33671193.ece
27 January 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Importance of unity in diversity stressed at Republic Day celebration||Several institutions of higher education celebrated 72th Republic Day. At Bharathidasan University, Vice-Chancellor P. Manisankar explained the circumstances under which the new Constitutional laws were introduced by late freedom fighters Mahatma Gandhi, Jawaharlal Nehru, Sardhar Vallabai Patel, Subash Chandra Bose, Bhagat Singh, and B.R.Ambedkar G. Sugumar, Vice-Chancellor of Tamil Nadu Dr. J. Jayalalithaa Fisheries University, Nagapattinam, reinforced the importance of unity in diversity in his Republic Day address, after unfurling the national tricolour. Director of National Institute of Technology - Tiruchi, Mini Shaji Thomas, spoke. A cultural programme was presented by B.Arch students, Ladies Club and Children's Club of NIT-T. At Central University of Tamil Nadu, Thiruvarur, the Vice-chancellor (officiating) R.Karpaga Kumaravel, said after hoisting the National Flag that the concept of democracy should be inculcated within the social thought process and life and not just as a political thought and ideology.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/concept-of-democracy-explained/article33671296.ece
27 January 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Mettur level||The water level at Mettur dam stood at 105.97 feet on Tuesday against its full level of 120 feet. The inflow was 1,231 cusecs and the discharge 1,000 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mettur-level/article33671293.ece
27 January 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Opposition parties extend support to farmers agitating in Delhi||Cadre of the Opposition parties took out a motor bike rally here on Tuesday in support of farmers protesting in New Delhi and against fuel price hike. Cadre of DMK, Congress, Left parties, MDMK, Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi, Social Democratic Party of India, Manithaneya Makkal Katchi, Indian Union Muslim League and other parties took out the bike rally from Tirunelveli Town Arch to Gandhi Statue in Tirunelveli Town. “The unprecedented fuel price hike, which has hit hard people from all walks of life, should be withdrawn. The Narendra Modi-led Union Government should consider the genuine demands of protesting farmers. If not, the people’s protest will bring the government down,” Abdul Wahab, Tirunelveli City district secretary of the DMK, said. In Tenkasi, over 2,000 cadre from the Opposition parties participated in the bike rally took out from Ilaththur intersection to Tenkasi new bus stand. They raised slogans against the fuel price hike and pledged their support to the protesting farmers in New Delhi. “The farmers, who are fighting for their livelihood, will win the battle against the Centre,” they said. Bicycle rally Padmanabhapuram MLA S. Mano Thangaraj took out a cycle rally along with a few people from Manali near Thuckalay to Anna Stadium in Nagercoil where the Republic Day celebrations were held. “To express solidarity with the protesting farmers in New Delhi and register my opposition against the unprecedented fuel price hike, we took out the cycle rally today,” said Mr. Mano Thangaraj. He argued that the Narendra Modi-led government had robbed the people of over Rs. 20 lakh crore by increasing fuel price abnormally ever since it came to power in 2014 while the United Progressive Alliance government which was able to sell the petrol at Rs. 50 a litre even when the crude oil price in the international market stood at 150 USD per barrel. “Even after unprecedented slump in the international oil price, the Modi-led BJP government is robbing the people,” he charged.   Members of various farmers’ associations and trade bodies on Tuesday took out a tractor and motorbike rally in Virudhunagar in support of farmers protesting in Delhi against three farm laws. Tamil Nadu Vivasayigal Sangam district secretary, V. Murugan, leader of protest coordination committee, Kalidass, took part in the protest. The State deputy convener K. Balakrishnan flagged off the protest rally. The rally started from Karumathi madam and passed through Municipal Office Road, Virudhunagar Main Bazar, North Car Street and concluded at the Old Bus Stand.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/opposition-parties-extend-support-to-farmers-agitating-in-delhi/article33671308.ece
27 January 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Republic Day celebrated sans fanfare in southern districts||The 72nd Republic Day celebrations were held at VOC Stadium in Palayamkottai on Tuesday without any cultural event by school students and public participation due to restrictions imposed by the State Government across the State in the wake of COVID-19. Collector V. Vishnu inspected the guard of honour after unfurling the national flag and took salute from the police, fire and rescue services personnel and home guards. He honoured 399 officials from various government departments including 109 from police, 136 from Fire and Rescue Services, 70 from revenue, 20 from municipal administration, Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital and from other departments on the occasion for their meritorious service to the public, especially during the pandemic. He distributed welfare assistance to 16 beneficiaries. The panchayat-level confederation of self-help groups of Sadaiyaneri Venkatrayapuram under Nanguneri block received loans to the tune of Rs. 88 lakh for various business ventures of members. Ex-serviceman Rajini Babu of Annai Nagar near Aaraikulam in Palayamkottai taluk, who was injured in action while serving in the army, received the annual maintenance assistance of Rs. 25,000. A stellar performance by a group of ‘silambam’ exponents thrilled the participants. Commissioner of Police, Tirunelveli City, Deepak M. Damor, Deputy Commissioners Saravanan and Magesh, Superintendent of Police N. Manivannan, Corporation Commissioner G. Kannan and senior officials participated in the celebrations. Gram sabha meetings, which would usually be conducted in village panchayats as part of Republic Day celebrations were cancelled. Mr. Vishnu inaugurated a multi skill training centre at State Industrial Development Corporation’s Pettai campus where youths would be trained in a range of technical trades based on their area of interest. Corporation Commissioner G. Kannan unfurled the national flag, honoured the meritorious Corporation officials and distributed welfare assistance to sanitary workers. Vice-Chancellor K. Pitchumani hoisted the national flag at Manonmaniam Sundaranar University.  Thoothukudi Collector K. Senthil Raj unfurled the national flag at Tharuvai Grounds here. He inspected guard of honour by the police and took salute from the police, fire and rescue services personnel. He honoured officials from the police, fire and rescue services, medical college hospital, public health, revenue, sports and other government departments. He distributed welfare assistance worth Rs. 1.69 crore to 106 beneficiaries including 34 persons from Department of Rural Development, 34 persons from Department of Revenue, 10 from Department of Backward Class Welfare and other departments. Corporation Commissioner V.P. Jayaseelan, Additional Collector (Revenue) Vishnu Chandran, Sub-Collector, Thoothukudi, Simranjeet Singh and Superintendent of Police S. Jayakumar participated in the celebrations.  Nagercoil Collector M. Aravind unfurled the national flag at Anna Stadium here. He inspected the guard of honour and took salute from the police and fire and rescue services personnel. He honoured 97 personnel from the departments of police, fires and rescue services, public health, Government Medical College Hospital, horticulture, agriculture, revenue and other departments. Additional Collector (Revenue) Mercy Ramya, Corporation Commissioner Asha Ajit, Sub-Collector of Padmanabhapuram Sharanya MLAs Mano Thangaraj and N. Suresh Rajan, Superintendent of Police V. Badri Narayanan and senior government officials participated.  Tenkasi Collector G.S. Sameeran unfurled the national flag at Government Boys’ Higher Secondary School grounds near the Government Hospital on Tuesday. He honoured freedom fighter and former civil servant K. Lakshmikanthan Bharathi, inspected guard of honour of the police and took salute from the police and fire and rescue services personnel. He honoured 372 officials from the departments of police (39), health services (92), fire and rescue services (17), Collectorate (28), siddha (11), rural development (29), horticulture (18) and other government departments. He distributed welfare assistance to the tune of Rs. 88.16 lakh to 144 beneficiaries including loan to the tune of Rs. 41.45 lakh from Tirunelveli District Central Cooperative Bank and Rs. 28.25 lakh through Tamil Nadu Rural Livelihood Programme. Superintendent of Police Suguna Singh was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/republic-day-celebrated-sans-fanfare-in-southern-districts/article33671548.ece
27 January 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||VIT honours frontline workers for service during pandemic||Vellore Institute of Technology (VIT), Vellore honoured corona warriors, including doctors, nurses and paramedical staff for their selfless service during the COVID-19 pandemic, as part of the Republic Day function held at the institute’s Vellore campus on Tuesday. VIT Vice President G.V. Selvam hoisted the national flag and honoured 75 persons, including Corona warriors and security personnel from VIT who had helped the police department. VIT’s security personnel were involved in various activities helping the police department during the lockdown period, he said. Appreciating the efforts of N. Vinayagam, Deputy Superintendent of Police, Armed Reserve, Vellore district and D. Baskaran, a doctor, in protecting people from COVID-19, Mr. Selvam honoured them with an award during the function. Aiming to boost the immunity of police personnel during the pandemic, Mr. Vinayagam, facilitated the provision of Kabasura Kudineer to the Armed Reserve Police and their families in Vellore district and also conducted yoga training camps for them in Vellore. Dr. Baskaran had come up with an herbal face mask which would also help. VIT Vice-Chancellor Rambabu Kodali, Registrar K. Sathiyanarayanan, Director-Students Welfare Amit B. Mahindrakar, faculty and staff also took part in the function. At VIT Chennai, Sankar Viswanathan, Vice President, VIT, unfurled the tricolour flag in the presence of V.S. Kanchana Bhaaskaran, Pro Vice Chancellor, VIT Chennai and P.K. Manoharan, Additional Registrar. Mr. Sankar Viswanathan also reviewed the guard of honour presented by security personnel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vit-honours-frontline-workers-for-service-during-pandemic/article33671552.ece
27 January 2021||January 27 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Entries invited for short film contest||Citizens Voice Club, in association with other organisations, has announced a short film contest to raise awareness on societal issues.  Topics A release said that the short films must be made on one of the three topics -- water conservation, the importance of consumer protection and Right to Information, and the role of the individuals in promoting good governance by eradicating corruption. The duration should not exceed two minutes and the short film must be made using puppets, cartoons or shadow art. Entries for the first topic must be mailed to aimcharitabletrust@gmail.com , second topic to citizensvoiceclub@gmail.com or cag.communication@cag.org.in and third topic to anticorruptionmovement.cbedist@gmail.com by February 28. For further details, contact 94430 39839 and 96009 04478. Entrepreneurship programme Amrita Centre for Entrepreneurship will conduct a free online Technology-based Entrepreneurship Development Programme focused on Electric Vehicles from February 3 to March 17. A release said that those aged between 21 and 45 with either a degree or a diploma from a government-recognised institution are eligible to participate. Register online at http://bit.ly/acetedpregistration2020-21. Contact 98413 19217 or 94429 37623 for details.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/entries-invited-for-short-film-contest/article33671210.ece
27 January 2021||January 27 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||18 minor girls rescued from home||“The team rescued 18 children from the home, who were produced before the CWC and provided temporary shelter at another home near Chetpet,” the officer added. Francis Adaikalam, a member of the CWC, said the team inspected the unregistered home on Monday. “The children were all girls between 9 and 17 years. When they were rescued, some of them said they had been sexually abused by the person who ran the home. While some are orphans, others, despite having parents, had been living in the home since they hail from economically backward families,” he said. Members of the CWC spoke to some of the parents on Monday. They have been speaking to the children as well to find out more about what happened in the unregistered home. “They are all safe in another home in the city, and over the next few days, we will continue speaking to the parents and decide on the future course of action,” Mr. Adaikalam said. An official from the District Child Protection Unit said that once they were informed that the home was unregistered, they immediately went there for inspection. “We are acting on any information about unregistered homes in the city and carrying out inspections. Strict action would be taken against homes that haven’t been registered,” she said. (Childline operates a toll-free helpline for children in distress - 1098)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/18-minor-girls-rescued-from-unregistered-home/article33671145.ece
27 January 2021||January 27 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Three drown in pond near Panruti||Three girls drowned in a pond at Pudhur Sitheri, near Panruti in the district, on Tuesday. The victims were identified as L. Nandhini, 18, and her sister Vinodhini, 16, and B. Bhuvaneshwari, 19, of Pudhur Sitheri. According to the police, the incident occurred around 1 p.m. when the three girls went to witness the culmination of the 11-day ‘Kanni’ festival held in the village. While the villagers returned after the festivities, the trio entered the pond. Police said the pond had become deep after it was desilted recently. As they didn’t know swimming, they drowned. On information, police retrieved the bodies and sent them for post-mortem examination to the Panruti General Hospital. A case has been registered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-drown-in-pond-near-panruti/article33671520.ece
27 January 2021||January 27 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Leading by example||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/leading-by-example/article33671554.ece
27 January 2021||belagavi,KARNATAKA||‘New laws will push farmers to the brink of disaster’||“The new farm laws will push farmers to the brink of disaster,” Babagouda Patil, farmer leader and former Union Minister said in Belagavi on Tuesday. The Union government is trying to push farmers to the brink of disaster and help its corporate friends in their quest for endless enrichment, Mr. Patil said. He was addressing protesting farmers near the Deputy Commissioner’s office. He explained the gist of the three central amendments to the laws regulating APMC, the Essential commodities Act, and Contract Farming and the amendment to the Karnataka State land Reforms Act. He said that while the State law allowed anyone to purchase hundreds of acres of farm land, it did not force the buyer to continue farming on that land. It had also erased the difference between natural persons and artificial persons like companies, allowing corporate companies to buy unlimited amount of land. This could turn entire villages into fiefdoms of companies and force all the farmers in the village to become landless labourers. The new laws will decimate the APMCs and nudge the corporates and money lenders to turn into farm traders. They will not be under any regulation. They could exploit the farmers and the law will not protect them, Mr. Patil said. The contract farming Act expressly bars the civil courts from entertaining any disputes between farmers and contracting companies. Farmers have to approach the Assistant Commissioner’s chamber courts that could decide against farmers and farmers will have no access to legal relief except the High Court. Not every farmer will be able to approach the HC, he said. The essential commodities Act is in favour of the traders as it encourages hoarding. The Act does not give powers to DC s or AC s to act against traders who could manipulate prices of food grains by hoarding huge amounts, the farmers leader said. He defended the protest in New Delhi and said that there was no solution to the problem except withdrawal of the farm laws.  Mr. Patil who was a member of Atal BIhari Vajpayee-led government, said that BJP led government in the centre was brazenly following pro- corporate policies, with least regard to the welfare of farmers. Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah are leading a communal government that is soon turning into a fascist regime, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/new-laws-will-push-farmers-to-the-brink-of-disaster/article33671364.ece
27 January 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||‘Govt. plans to invest Rs. 2,100 cr. in new irrigation, drinking water works’||The State government plans to invest over Rs. 2,100 crore in new irrigation and drinking water projects in Belgavi district alone, Minister for Major and Medium Irrigation Ramesh Jarkiholi said in Belagavi on Tuesday. This is apart from the projects worth Rs. 7,500 crore that are already in progress, he said after inaugurating the Republic Day celebrations at the District Stadium. According to him, the State government has provided administrative and technical approval to the Ghatti Basavanna Drinking Water Scheme in Gokak which will be taken up at Rs. 990 crore. Work is in progress on the Ghataprabha Left Bank Canal and the Ballari Nala projects. Irrigation projects Tubachi Babaleshwar, Chachadi, Muragod, Veerabhadreshwar, Kempawad, Godachinamalki and Salapur are nearing completion. Belagavi City Corporation has received Rs. 125 crore under the Mahatma Gandhi Nagar Vikas Scheme. Belagavi Urban Development Authority will create a new township in Kanabargi at a cost of Rs. 165 crore on 160 acres of land. An international level hockey stadium will be built on 40,000 square metres in Kanabargi village at a cost of Rs. 300 crore. Officials have spent Rs. 366 crore of the Rs. 494 crore under the Clean and Beautiful Belagavi Programme. As many as 27 of the 101 projects under Smart City Scheme have been completed till now, the Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-plans-to-invest-rs-2100-cr-in-new-irrigation-drinking-water-works/article33671351.ece
27 January 2021||belagavi,KARNATAKA||Jarkiholi: Not supporting any dissident activity||Ramesh Jarkiholi, Major and Minor Irrigation Minister, has denied that he was either initiating or supporting any dissidence activity in the State BJP. He told journalists in Belagavi that he was not involved in any dissident activity whatsoever. “It is true that I have met MLAs, some of whom may not be happy with the Cabinet expansion in a private resort in Chikkamagaluru. But that was only about the development of their constituencies and about old and new irrigation projects in their areas,” he said. He claimed that he had no idea about Cabinet expansion or reallocation of portfolios before hand. “I also had no idea about the date of expansion and had scheduled my tour of Hassan and Chikkamagaluru one week before the expansion. I went there, as it was important for me to inspect irrigation sites,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/jarkiholi-not-supporting-any-dissident-activity/article33671365.ece
27 January 2021||BELAGAVI,KARNATAKA||Farmers stage rasta roko for a few minutes||Farmers protesting against the new farm laws held a parallel Republic Day celebration in Belagavi on Tuesday. They unfurled a national flag tied to a pole attached to a tractor near the Suvarna Soudha and sang the national anthem. They rode tractors to which small flags were tied. They brought the vehicles from the Suvarna Soudha to the Rani Channamma Circle and held a rasta roko protest for a few minutes. They tried to go to the District Stadium but the police stopped them midway near the Sangolli Rayanna Circle.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/farmers-stage-rasta-roko-for-a-few-minutes/article33671352.ece
27 January 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Star Air flight connects Belagavi with Nashik||Star Air, a private civil aviation company, has introduced more routes and more flights from Belagavi under UDAAN, a Centrally-aided regional connectivity scheme. Direct flights between Belagavi and Nashik were introduced on Monday, the company’s second anniversary. Airline officers said that the flight could help develop the region as it will connect Belagavi, the seat of India’s first private aerospace SEZ, to Nashik, which is India’s defence and aerospace manufacturing hub. Nashik is part of a billion-dollar Delhi-Mumbai industrial corridor project and direct flights would aid industrial activities on both sides. Shrenik Ghodawat, director, said that the “Sanjay Ghodawat Group and Star Air will try to augment regional connectivity and catapult trade and tourism for Belagavi.” He hoped that with Nashik’s proximity to Shirdi, the pilgrimage centre, Star Air’s flight service will attract lakhs of devotees from Belagavi and adjacent districts. It will also help tourists from Nashik and adjoining areas to visit Kolhapur, Hubballi and Goa, situated near Belagavi. The non stop flight from Belagavi will be operated thrice a week on Monday, Friday and Sunday. As per UDAAN scheme, the inaugural flight tickets will start at Rs. 1,999.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/star-air-flight-connects-belagavi-with-nashik/article33671353.ece
27 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Parties give no-confidence motion notice||After the fiasco over the no-confidence motion moved against Legislative Council Chairman K. Prathapachandra Shetty in the winter session of the legislature, the BJP and JD(S) have given another notice to move the motion in the upcoming joint session, which will commence on Thursday. Attempts by the BJP and the JD(S) to unseat the Chairman on December 15 had led to acrimonious scenes after the Chairman rejected the notice on the grounds that it did not state any specific reason for moving it. “Notice has been given by both parties separately again to move the no-confidence motion,” JD(S) leader Basavaraj Horatti, who is the most senior member of the Council, confirmed. However, sources said that the Chairman cannot be removed without the post of Deputy Chairman being filled. That post is now lying vacant after the death of JD(S) member S.L. Dharme Gowda. Incidentally, Dharme Gowda allegedly committed suicide citing the December 15 fracas in the Council where he was pulled around as he sat on the Chairman’s seat. While Congress members triedto unseat him by dragging him, BJP members pushed him back on that day. Meanwhile, the Council Secretariat has announced January 28 as the date for filing nominations by members wishing to contest for the post of Deputy Chairman. Depending on the number of candidates in the fray, the election dates will be notified, sources said. “In all probability, it will be unanimous,” a source said. Mr. Horatti said, “Only after the election of a Deputy Chairman can the Chairman step down — if he wishes to — by tendering his resignation. Otherwise, we will see whether the Chairman will allow the motion of no confidence or delay further.” Congress sources said that since the party does not have numbers in the House, Mr. Shetty was likely to resign after the new Deputy Chairman is elected. It may be recalled here that an interim report of the House Committee that went into the turn of events on December 15 was submitted to Mr. Shetty last week. It is learnt to have blamed, among others, the then Law Minister J.C. Madhuswamy. The leader, however, has said that the committee itself was “null and void”. The committee was headed by senior member Marithibbe Gowda and included B.K. Hariprasad and R.B. Thimmapur. BJP members A.H. Vishwanth and S.V. Sankanur had withdrawn from the committee soon after it was constituted by the Chairman.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/parties-give-no-confidence-motion-notice/article33671125.ece
27 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Governor lauds State’s success in fight against COVID-19||Governor Vajubhai Vala on Tuesday commended the State government’s success in the fight against COVID-19 and said it had emerged a model for the country. “The State Health Department led the fight against COVID-19 effectively. Testing, tracing, tracking, technology and treatment – 5Ts of Karnataka – have emerged as the model for the country,” the Governor said. In his Republic Day address at the Field Marshal Manekshaw Parade Ground in Bengaluru, the Governor said, “The celebrations of Republic Day this year is dedicated to undying human spirit to triumph in the face of adversity. While the world faced unprecedented challenges in COVID-19 in 2020, we enter 2021 with renewed vigour and optimism,” he added. ‘Additional infrastructure’ After unfurling the national flag, Mr Vala received a salute from the armed forces. In his 11-page address, the Governor said the Karnataka government worked day and night along with the people and succeeded in turning the tide on COVID-19. The State used the health crisis as an opportunity to create additional infrastructure, and enhance production capacity for PPE kits and ventilators in the country in the true spirit envisaged by Atma Nirbar Bharat launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, he said. It was noteworthy that India has succeeded in producing two vaccines which were also being exported to other countries. The State government was working with the Centre to ensure supply of vaccines to all the people, the Governor said, and appreciated the untiring efforts of frontline health workers in handling the pandemic. Karnataka State COVID-19 War Room leveraged technology in unprecedented manner for contract tracing, quarantine watch, and manage each aspect of the COVID-19. “This is commendable work,” the Governor said. ‘Exams conducted’ Mr. Vala said during the COVID-19 crisis, financial aid of Rs. 5,372 crore was given to 63,59,000 beneficiaries, which included farmers, and workers of the unorganised sectors. Class 10 and Class 12 examinations were conducted successfully despite pandemic challenge, he said. But there is no room for complacency and we must continue to observe the SMS mantra of social distancing, masking, and sanitisation, the Governor said. Noting development works in the city, Mr. Vala said, “The Bengaluru Smart City project is transforming the city and is being implemented at a brisk speed.” Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa and other dignitaries were present. Unlike previous years, the public was not allowed to participate in the function due to pandemic. There were no cultural programmes either.  The celebrations of Republic Day this year are dedicated to undying human spirit to triumph in the face of adversity Vajubhai Vala, Governor||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/in-r-day-address-governor-lauds-states-success-in-fight-against-covid-19-pandemic/article33671101.ece
27 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Statements of CM, Minister evoke ire||The creation of hurdles for tractor parades in the State, especially in Bengaluru, and statements by Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa and Agriculture Minister B.C. Patil against protesters drew widespread condemnation. Mr. Yediyurappa had said on Tuesday, “Those protesting do not even know why they are protesting.” Mr. Patil had dubbed protesting farmers as “terrorists”. Tractors became a bone of contention between farmers and the government. Even as farmers argued that tractors were key to their protest, Mr. Yediyurappa defended his government’s decision not to allow tractors inside the city citing traffic issues. Leader of Opposition Siddaramaiah tweeted: “B.S. Yediyurappa will pay the price for his anti-farmer stand in Karnataka and for his atrocities on farmers protesting for their rights.” The Chief Minister had said in the morning, “Farmer leaders are misleading farmers to show they are alive. Those protesting don’t even know why they are protesting and are not forthcoming with their demands. I do not see why there must be any protest after the Union government had agreed to put the farm laws on hold for two years and discuss the issues threadbare.” This sparked outrage. Farmers’ leader Kodihalli Chandrashekhar said the Chief Minister, who claims to be a farmers’ leader, should learn to respect farmers. “The farm laws have posed an existential threat to farmers in the country. This is a protest to save our lives, not over petty politics,” he hit back. Another farmer leader H.R. Basavarajappa said the Chief Minister had shown his “true colours”. Mr. Patil, referring to the violent turn the farmers’ movement took in Delhi, dubbed the protesters as “terrorists, Khalistanis and instigated by Congress.” Mr. Chandrashekar responded, “It has now come to such a pass that farmers are being called anti-nationals and terrorists. Anyone who opposes this government will be branded a terrorist.” Youth Congress workers have lodged a police complaint in the city against the Minister for his remarks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/statements-of-cm-minister-evoke-ire/article33671097.ece
27 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Four portfolio reshuffles on, disgruntlement continues||Despite four portfolio reshuffles in the State Cabinet in the last week alone, disgruntlement among Ministers over the departments allotted to them is still a reality, sources in the BJP and government said. C.P. Yogeshwar, from whom the Chief Minister took the Minor Irrigation Department to allot it to J.C. Madhuswamy, and B.S. Anand Singh, who lost the Forest Department and later the Tourism Department in a matter of two days, are said to be upset over the change in portfolios. Municipal Administration Minister N. Nagaraj (MTB) is also believed to be upset that he did not get the Housing Department, which was his choice. The Chief Minister has only been to placate K. Sudhakar and J.C. Madhuswamy, who got back the Medical Education and Minor Irrigation portfolios, respectively, in the two portfolio rejigs on Monday. “My portfolios were changed four times in a few days, which hurt me. I had decided to resign as Minister after the Republic Day function today and told the party so. But the party leaders spoke to me and reallotted me Minor Irrigation Department, a portfolio that I have a passion for,” Mr. Madhuswamy said on Tuesday. A compromise But with this, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa has ended up creating two new disgruntled Ministers in Mr. Yogeshwar and Mr. Singh, sources said. Mr. Yediyurappa is said to have spoken to Mr. Singh on Tuesday and tried to placate him. “Given that the State government is carving out Vijayanagara district, a long-standing demand of Mr. Singh, and has assured him that he would be made the district in-charge Minister, the Chief Minister has requested him to take charge and manage the department allotted. Given that he has now been assigned the Infrastructure Development Department, a key portfolio the Chief Minister himself held, he seems to have withdrawn his threat to resign, though he remains disgruntled,” a senior party leader said. However, the Chief Minister has not been able to placate Mr. Yogeshwar yet, sources said. Given that Mr. Yogeshwar has built his image on the rejuvenation and refilling of lakes in Channapatna, he was keen on the Minor Irrigation portfolio, which he has now lost to get the Tourism Department. “The Chief Minister has faced opposition from various quarters for taking him, a person who was defeated in the Assembly polls, into the Cabinet. We hope that he will not make a fuss over the portfolio,” a closeassociate of Mr. Yediyurappa’s said. Meanwhile, it was pointed out that despite four portfolio rejigs in an attempt to placate his Ministers, the Chief Minister has not given up the plum portfolios of Energy and Bengaluru Development. Doing so would have given him a lot of elbow room to manoeuvre and reduced heartburn among the Ministers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/four-portfolio-reshuffles-on-disgruntlement-continues/article33671117.ece
27 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Schools say they may be forced to slash salaries if fees are cut||The pandemic, which affected the workforce across sectors like aviation, hospitality and tourism, did not spare teachers, many of whom either lost their jobs or were forced to take salary cuts. And while other sectors are slowly showing signs of recovery, teachers may face another round of salary cuts, if the State government accepts the Department of Public Instruction’s proposal to slash fees by 30% for the current academic year. School managements said that they may have no choice but to do so if the government goes ahead with the fee cut. D. Shashi Kumar, general secretary of Associated Managements of Primary and Secondary Schools in Karnataka, said that they had devised a plan to provide relief to parents. “We have asked school managements to not collect certain types of fees that managements do not incur. But enforcing a blanket fee cut is not feasible for us. We will have to once again cut the salaries of our teachers,” he said. He also added that they will have to take this up as a measure as a majority of the parents have still not paid the school fees for the current academic year. Mansoor Ali Khan, member, board of management, DPS Group of Schools, said that if the government imposes this fee cut, they may be forced to remove teachers from their payroll. “One size does not fit all and we have told each school to waive fees after keeping in mind their financial situation and the situation of the parents who may be in distress due to the pandemic,” he said. The Management of Independent CBSE Schools’ Association (MICSA) has asked the school managements to reach out to parents under stress and help in whatever way they can as well as devise a plan to stabilise the situation for children and parents. While parents are hoping for some relief, teachers, whose salaries we cut in June/July, are worried. Many teachers who were not paid salaries had resorted to other means to earn a living even while several schools were hiring teachers on a contract basis and paying them by hour for every online class they were conducting. The DPI had submitted its report to the State government after a meeting with representatives of parents’ associations and private school managements regarding concerns over the fee structure for the current academic year. They suggested a 30% fee cut on the grounds that school managements will not incur recurring or infrastructural expenditure as most of the classes are conducted online.  Schools should reduce fees for the benefit of parents. The only cost that school managements will incur this year is the salaries of teachers. They should prioritise this and ensure that teachers get paid the full salaries Basavaraj Gurikar,vice-president, All-India Teachers’ Federation   The pandemic is testing time for everyone and we are trying to ensure that the parents are not put to hardship. School managements should focus on protecting the interest of teachers and not on making profits this academic year. Senior official,Department of Public Instruction    Suchitra S., a parent of a class four student: Schools are not interested in retaining their best teachers. The quality of the classes has become very poor as teachers who cannot run their households with salary cuts are looking out for better paying jobs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/schools-say-they-may-be-forced-to-slash-teachers-salary-if-fees-are-cut/article33671111.ece
27 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Sexual minorities, Sikhs serve food||As thousands of farmers from districts descended on the city and congregated at Freedom Park, members of the sexual minorities and Sikh communities took over the food needs of the protesters on Tuesday. The breakfast was served by sexual minorities, mainly transgenders, who had prepared ten thousand meals Tuesday morning. “We are also farmer’s children and are concerned with how the Union government has rammed the farm laws through Parliament, without any consultation with stakeholders. The government’s style of functioning in a democracy is a concern to all of us. Cooking for farmers is our way of contributing to the struggle,” said Mallu Kambar, a member of the sexual minority community, who organised the meals. The Sikh community, that has been at the forefront of the protests in Delhi, put up a langar at Freedom Park and served lunch for the protesting farmers on Tuesday. Several volunteers from the community, also picked waste and cleaned up the venue during and after the protest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sexual-minorities-sikhs-serve-food/article33671096.ece
27 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||How the case unfolded||Former Chief Minister J. Jayalalithaa’s close aide V.K Sasikala was convicted on two charges — hatching criminal conspiracy with the former and abetting her in the acquisition and possession of pecuniary resources and properties disproportionate to Jayalalithaa’s known sources of income. The Special Court, in its September 27, 2014 judgment, which was upheld by the apex court on February 14, 2017, specifically held that Ms. Sasikala along with two other convicts — Elavarasi and V.N. Sudhakaran — “at the time of joining the household of Jayalalithaa were not possessed of properties significant enough in their names nor did they have any independent source of income as such.” 34 companies Ms. Sasikala and two others acquired properties in their names and in the names of the 34 companies and firms, which they started during the check period, from July 1991 to April 1996, with unaccounted funds and resources of Jayalalithaa, the courts had found. Ms. Sasikala, Mr. Elavarai and Mr. Sudhakaran indeed had neither the source of income, means nor the wherewithal to be capable of making the huge acquisitions in their names or for their firms/companies during the check period, the apex court had observed while upholding the finds of the special court. The apex court had agreed with the trial court’s finding that the prosecution successfully established that Ms. Sasikala and two others, who posed to be income tax assessees, and their firms/companies had no independent or real source of income and that it was the finance of Jayalalithaa that was really in circulation and thus it could prove beyond reasonable doubt that the only source of money and acquisition of large assets was that of Jayalalithaa’s.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/how-the-case-unfolded/article33671131.ece
27 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||New policy on the anvil||Stressing the need to allow mining for development projects, Mines and Geology Minister Murugesh R. Nirani on Tuesday announced a plan to introduce a policy to regularise unauthorised mining. He, however, clarified that only the unauthorised mining of those who fulfil the criteria under a new policy would be considered for regularisation. Speaking at Yadgir, he said new legislation would be enacted by amending the current legislation to curb illegal mining after soliciting the views from different stakeholders. The Minister plans to convene meetings with department officials on Wednesday and Thursday to discuss measures to prevent illegal mining and to introduce a policy on regularisation. “The scourge of illegal mining is not restricted to Karnataka; it is rampant across India. We will also study the measures taken by other States to curb illegal mining and will take a final decision after talks with the Chief Minister,” Mr. Nirani said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/new-policy-on-the-anvil/article33671118.ece
27 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Cong. to intensify protest against new farm laws||As the deadlock between the farmers and the Centre over three contentious farm laws continued, Karnataka Congress on Tuesday said it would intensify the agitation against the laws at the district and taluk levels in the coming days. Unfurling the national flag at the party office on Republic Day, KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar said the BJP governments at the Centre and several States had pushed farmers and the poor into distress by implementing laws to benefit the corporate world. Even after the failure of talks in 11 rounds between the Centre and farmers’ leaders, the government has not taken a decision to repeal the laws. The Congress will not stop its protests till the laws are withdrawn, Mr. Shivakumar said. A few days ago, the Congress staged a protest in Bengaluru city and submitted a memorandum to President Ram Nath Kovind through the Governor seeking repeal of the laws. Furthermore, in the wake of a steep rise in fuel prices, party workers will hit the streets soon, Mr. Shivakumar added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cong-to-intensify-protest-against-new-farm-laws/article33671123.ece
27 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Initiative on media accountability||Civil society organisation DAKSH has launched a new initiative ‘MĀRGA’, which stands for Media and its Role in Governance and Accountability. This was announced during an inaugural discussion on the relationship of media with the law and justice system that was held on Republic Day. As part of MARGA, the organisation will examine the role of the media in governance and accountability, and explore avenues to deepen democracy through strengthening the role played by the media, said DAKSH in a press release. “The idea of MĀRGA arose from a realisation that the quality of media reporting on the functioning of the justice system and other public institutions has a direct bearing on the perception of, and the level of public trust in, these institutions. This in turn affects how the public engage with such institutions or approach them when required. It is imperative that the media be provided sufficient freedom to report on the functioning of such institutions to hold them accountable. At the same time, such freedom needs to be balanced with the responsibility to report accurately and fairly,” said the release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/initiative-on-media-accountability/article33671129.ece
27 January 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||International Holocaust remembrance day today||The Consulate General of Israel will observe International Holocaust remembrance day on Wednesday. According to a release, a programme will be held at Bengaluru International Center in Domlur in Bengaluru at 5 p.m. The day is observed asa reminder of the tragedy of the Holocaust, which saw the killing of 6 million Jews and 11 million othersby the Nazis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/international-holocaust-remembrance-day-today/article33671122.ece
27 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||435 health workers vaccinated||On Republic Day, 435 health workers out of the 1,094 targeted to be vaccinated for COVID-19 took the shot, which accounts for 40% coverage. A total of 2,31,604 vaccinations have been done in Karnataka so far since the drive began, against the target of 4,21,385 (55%) On Tuesday, vaccination drive was conducted in only five districts: Ballari, Bengaluru Rural, Hassan, Dharwad, and Raichur. Of these Raichur achieved the highest target by vaccinating 73 out of a target of 93. Meanwhile, 529 people tested positive for COVID-19 on Tuesday, taking the total number of cases since the start of the pandemic to 9,36,955.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/435-health-workers-vaccinated/article33671112.ece
27 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Paper leak: Accused in CCB custody||The two prime accused in the First Division Assistant competitive examination question paper leak case — stenographer in Karnataka Public Service Commission (KPSC) Sana Bedi and second division assistant Ramesh — were taken into custody for six days for further investigation. The Central Crime Branch police arrested the duo on Monday for allegedly leaking the paper. “Sana Bedi, who was in charge of the question paper custody, sourced it for her colleague Ramesh. He told her that he was preparing to sit for the examination and requested her help so that he could pass,” said a police official. “But instead of using it personally, Ramesh along with Chandru, another accused, decided to make a quick buck and sell the paper along with the answer script for Rs. 10 lakh to each customer,” the police official added. The CCB officials so far have recovered Rs. 82 lakh cash from the accused. Chandu, an inspector with the commercial tax vigilance squad, was arrested on January 23.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/paper-leak-accused-in-ccb-custody/article33671134.ece
27 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Negotiation under way||As the post of Deputy Chairman lies vacant in the Legislative Council, and the two parties with numerical strength in the 75-member House are confident of unseating the Chairman, both are involved in backdoor negotiations. At present, the BJP is the largest party with 31 seats, followed by the Congress with 28 and JD(S) with 13. This is apart from one Independent and the Chairman. One seat is vacant following the death of S.L. Dharme Gowda. A senior BJP leader confirmed that there have been discussions over the issue at certain levels, but the question remained on who would compromise over the post of Chairman. “The common understanding is that we both do not want to allow the Congress member (K. Prathapachandra Shetty) to continue as Chairman,” said the leader. “The BJP is the ruling party and the largest bloc in the House. Why should the party leave the Chairman’s post to the JD(S)? Since the Deputy Chairman was from the JD(S), that post can be taken by the party. Ultimately, the discussions are not solely connected with the two posts. They are linked to other key issues, including that of the passage of the anti-cow slaughter Bill in the Upper House,” the leader said. JD(S) spokesman T.A. Saravana confirmed that the talks had been inconclusive and said JD(S) legislators were meeting former Prime Minister H.D. Deve Gowda to discuss the issue and formulate the party’s response.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/negotiation-under-way/article33671128.ece
27 January 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Power shutdown||There will be disruption in power  supply from 10.30 a.m. to 6.30 p.m. for three days from January 28 in areas serviced by Jayadeva sub station, Feeder-1, in view of taking up conversion and cable works. According to a release, the affected areas are: IAS Colony, Madeenanagar, EWS Layout, 16th Main, B.T.M. 2nd Stage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/power-shutdown/article33671105.ece
27 January 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Republic Day celebrated with pomp, gaiety in Hassan||Republic Day was celebrated in Hassan with patriotic fervour and gaiety on Tuesday. Teams representing various wings of the police and ex-servicemen participated in the parade at Hasanamba Stadium. Minister for Excise K. Gopalaiah, who is Minister in charge of Hassan, unfurled the national flag. After inspecting the guard of honour, he delivered a speech, in which he recalled the sacrifice of freedom fighters and the makers of the nation. He also listed the development works taken up by the State government in Hassan. So far, 3,890 health workers have been vaccinated for COVID-19 in Hassan district. In the second phase, employees of other departments would be covered. The public would be covered under the vaccination drive in the later stages, he said. Folk troupes presented Veeragase, Kolata, and Garudi Gombe. Tableaux showcasing development works of the government departments were exhibited on the occasion. The dog squad of the Police Department exhibited their skills. A team of officials led by District Fire Officer C.R. Ranganath and Sub-Inspector G.M. Sidde Gowda presented a demonstration on how the Fire and Emergency Services staff responds to emergency calls. The officers explained the way fire mishaps are handled. Due to COVID-19 scare, there were hardly any schoolchildren and public on the ground. The district administration felicitated 29 people from different fields recognising their service to society. Mr. Gopalaiah flagged off 15 special vehicles of the Police Department meant for Emergency Response Support System on the occasion. The public can dial 112 for any service of the police in case of emergency. Hassan MLA Preetham Gowda, Zilla Panchayat president Shweta Devaraj, Deputy Commissioner R. Girish, SP R. Srinivasa Gowda, Zilla Panchayat CEO D. Bharati, and other senior officers were present. Mr. Gopalaiah, in an interaction with media, said he was not upset with the change in portfolio. Earlier, he was Minister for Food and Civil Supplies. Now, he has been given the Excise Department. “I am prepared to handle any department assigned to me,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/republic-day-celebrated-with-pomp-gaiety-in-hassan/article33671468.ece
27 January 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Around 80 illegal quarries identified in Shivamogga||The Shivamogga district administration has identified around 80 illegal stone quarrying points in the district. Among them, 45 or so are comparatively big pits while the rest are small, Deputy Commissioner K.B. Shivakumar said at a meeting chaired by Minister for Rural Development and Panchayat Raj K.S. Eshwarappa in Shivamogga on Monday. The officers have noticed the activities of illegal quarry points in recent days, following the blast at a stone crushing unit at Hunasodu that claimed six lives. Besides this, there are 76 quarrying points and 97 stone crushing units active in the district. Among the 76 legal quarries, only 23 have permission for blasting. Mr. Eshwarappa, who is also Minister in-charge of the district, said all the illegal points would be taken over by the government. “I will discuss the issue in the Cabinet so that all the illegal quarrying points are taken over by the State government,” he said. The Minister said all the quarries would have to take permission for blasting. “At present, only 23 units have permission. It would be good for them if they take permission following the set procedure,” he said. Mr. Shivakumar clarified that all 97 crushing units were legal and permitted by the administration. Otherwise, they would not get power supply. The administration has received applications to open three more crushers. The Minister said the applicants would be granted permission, taking the total number of crushers to 100. Source of explosive Meanwhile, the police investigation into the explosive material that went off at Hunasodu has indicated that the material was brought from Anantapur in Andhra Pradesh. Three people from Anantapur and three from Bhadravati, who died in the incident, carried it to the site where the explosion happened. S. Ravi, IGP, Eastern Range, said that Praveen of Antaragange in Bhadravati taluk was the agent who used to coordinate with the suppliers of explosives and carried them to the quarry points. “The incident could have happened while the explosives were being distributed. We don’t know what exactly happened at the site,” he said. Among the six who died, five have been identified. The police suspect the sixth to be Punith from Bhadravati taluk, who accompanied Praveen and Manjunath to visit the site along with the explosives on January 21. “However, it has to be examined further to ascertain it was actually Punith. We could gather only some parts of the body. It is difficult to identify the dead,” he said. So far, the police have arrested four people in connection with the blast — D.V. Sudhakar, the leaseholder of the crushing unit, Narasimha, supervisor, Mumtaz Ahmed, manager, and Rasheed of Jambaraghatta in Bhadravati. There could be a few more involved, the police suspect. Mr. Eshwarappa said that those who died in the incident might have acted at the behest of some influential people. “The police will probe the matter and book the culprits,” the Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/around-80-illegal-quarries-identified-in-shivamogga/article33671121.ece
27 January 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Taluk official accuses Ashok’s PA of demanding bribe||Sringeri taluk sub-registrar H.S. Cheluvaraj has filed a complaint with the police alleging that Revenue Minister R. Ashok’s personal assistant demanded money from him. It is alleged that during the Minister’s official visit to Sringeri on Sunday, his personal assistant asked the sub-registrar to meet him and demanded money. The police have registered a non-cognisable report. Mr. Cheluvaraju told The Hindu that a person, who introduced himself as Gangadhar, personal assistant to the Minister, had called him on Sunday morning to inform him that the Revenue Minister would be visiting Sringeri later that day. He also asked him to meet the Minister. The Minister was scheduled to attend a programme at Adichunchanagiri Samudaya Bhavan in the evening. “When I went to meet the Minister, Gangadhar took me to a room and asked for money. I told straight to his face that I did not have the habit of either taking or giving bribe,” he said. Following this, the PA allegedly threatened him with dire consequences. “I was carrying a copy of a letter I had written to the Chief Secretary on an administrative issue. I believed that the Minister had called me to discuss the letter. However, I was shocked when the Minister’s PA asked for money. He was upset with me when I did not give him any money. He did not even take the letter to the Chief Secretary from me,” he said. However, Gangadhar later allegedly called Mr. Cheluvaraju over phone to say that he was only asking for the document he was carrying and not money. The sub-registrar has also submitted an audio file of the conversation he had with the accused. “It was clear he was expecting money from me. I told him I was not like the other sub-registrars who take bribes,” said Mr. Cheluvaraju. Despite repeated efforts from The Hindu , the Minister was not available for comment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/taluk-official-accuses-ashoks-pa-of-demanding-bribe/article33671126.ece
27 January 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||3 jumbos radio-collared||The Forest Department staff have captured and radio-collared three elephants, including a tusker, in an operation that began last week. A tusker aged about 25 was captured at Mattur near Sakleshpur on Tuesday evening for radio-collaring. Deputy Conservator of Forests K.N. Basavaraj told The Hindu: “A problematic male elephant has been captured. It will be radio-collared and released in the remote wild area.” The operation to radio-collar four elephants and capture one tusker began on January 21. So far, two female and one male elephant have been radio-collared. “One more female will be radio-collared” the officer said. The elephants are radio-collared to track the movement of herds so that local people can be alerted. Elephants from Mysuru have been brought in for the operation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/3-jumbos-radio-collared/article33671470.ece
27 January 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||State first in facilitating start-up companies, says Shettar||Minister for Large and Medium Industries and Dharwad district in-charge Jagadish Shettar has said that the State has secured the top position in the country in facilitating setting up of and also ensuring smooth functioning of start-ups and, in Dharwad district alone the State government has provided funds for 15 such companies. Delivering the 72nd Republic Day address at R.N. Shetty District Stadium in Dharwad on Tuesday, even as farmers and pro-farmers organisations along with members of different political parties took out tractor rallies, Mr. Shettar said that priority has been given to industrial development in Dharwad district and steps have been taken to hand over land required for the establishment of two major industries. Stating that work to widen the Hubballi-Dharwad Bypass Road will be taken up soon, Mr. Shettar said that Union Minister for Road Transport and Highways Nitin Gadkari recently initiated the work on an elevated corridor at Kittur Chennamma Circle in Hubballi worth Rs. 298 crore, to widen a 2.77-km national highway and to build a major bridge near Dastikoppa of Kalghatgi taluk. Of the 57 projects taken up under Hubballi Dharwad Smart City Scheme at a total cost of Rs. 1,000 crore, 12 small works worth Rs. 20 crore have been completed and commissioned. As many as 41 projects worth Rs. 697.39 crore are under way and upgradation of Nehru Stadium, Janata Bazaar Market, Chitaguppi Hospital and others are part of these works. The Minister said that while nationally Hubballi-Dharwad was in the 11th position in implementation of the Smart City Scheme, it was in number one position in the State level. As announced by the State government, Hubballi has been identified for establishment of an FMCG cluster and with its establishment, Hubballi will become the FMCG hub of South India. North Karnataka will get an investment of Rs. 7,500 crore in three phases, which will ultimately lead to creation of one lakh jobs, he said. Listing out the various measures taken for checking the pandemic, Mr. Shettar said that although vaccine has arrived in the country, the general public is required to follow COVID-19 advisory without fail. The Minister listed out the various measures taken by the government towards initiative development in various sectors and towards floods and drought relief. Round-the-clock water supply project was being taken up at a total cost of Rs. 1,207 crore under DBOT (Design, Build, Operate and Transfer) model and initial survey has begun, he said. The Minister accompanied by Deputy Commissioner Nitesh Patil, Police Commissioner Labhu Ram, Superintendent of Police P. Krishnakant, Zilla Panchayat Chief Executive Officer B. Susheela and various elected representatives, honoured achievers in various fields on the occasion. Earlier, after hoisting the tricolour, the Minister inspected the Republic Day Parade and received a guard of honour from various contingents of the police force, Home Guards, Fire and Emergency Services, Forest Department and others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-first-in-facilitating-start-up-companies-says-shettar/article33671363.ece
27 January 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||BJP govts. are committed to protecting interests of farmers: Katti||The BJP-led governments at the Centre and in the State have launched various welfare schemes to benefit a cross-section of people, Minister for Food and Civil Supplies Umesh Katti has said. He added that the BJP governments are committed to protecting the interest of the farming community. After unfurling the tri-color and inspecting the 72nd Republic Day parade at the District Armed Reserve Police Grounds in Kalaburagi on Tuesday, Mr. Katti said that the Centre has implemented different schemes to revive the agriculture sector and to improve the economic conditions of farmers. Recalling the first death in India due to the COVID-19 that was reported from Kalaburagi, the Minister praised the hard work of the medical community and all the frontline warriors who have been fighting the pandemic. In the first phase of the COVID-19 vaccination drive, of the 9,489 targeted individuals, 5,350 frontline workers have received the vaccine in the last 10 days and the coverage in 56 %. KKRDB funds Out of the total allocation of Rs. 7,385 crore made for the Kalyana Karnataka Regional Development Board (KKRDB) in the past seven years (2013-14 to 2020-21), the State government has so far released Rs. 5,299 crore of which Rs. 5,279 crore has been spent for various works across six districts of the Kalyana Karnataka region, Mr. Katti said and added that between 2013-14 and 2020-21, the board spent Rs. 5,279 crore for 21,203 works, of which 18,466 works were completed. Recently, the government allocated Rs. 1,132 crore for the board. The newly formed Kalyana Karnataka Human Resource, Agriculture, and Cultural Association will go a long way in educating the farming community about schemes and also, training aspirants for Civil Services examinations. Listing out various welfare schemes of the government, Mr. Katti said that 3,300 beneficiaries in the district would get houses under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana and Rs. 180 crore has been allocated for the scheme. The scheme under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) has helped migrant workers who were forced to return home during the pandemic. As many as 1.13 lakh migrant labour from 54,751 families got work under the scheme in the district. Tableaux on creating awareness on COVID-19 vaccination by the Health Department, eco-friendly measures and steps to reduce the use of plastic and encouraging citizens to use toilets was demonstrated by the Zilla Panchayat.  Felicitations Mr. Katti felicitated five freedom fighters — Vijay Kumar P. Tadakal, Shivalingappa Patil, Vitthal V. Pujari, Shankreppa R. Huggi and Venkatrao A. Shinde on the occasion. The Minister also felicitated journalists Jayatheerth Patil, Sanjay Chikkmath, cameraman Vijakumar and photojournalist Arun Kumar Kulkarni. MP Umesh Jadhav, Zilla Panchayat president Suvarna Malaji, Deputy Commissioner V.V. Jyothsna, Superintendent of Police Simi Mariam George, legislator and KKRDB chairman Dattatreya Patil, legislator and NEKRTC Chairman Rajkumar Patil Telkur were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bjp-govts-are-committed-to-protecting-interests-of-farmers-katti/article33671355.ece
27 January 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Jowar, red gram, green gram, ragi to be distributed under PDS from April||To improve nutritional consumption, the State government has decided to distribute jowar, red gram and green gram through the public distribution system (PDS) from April 1, Minister for Food and Civil Supplies Umesh Katti has said. Speaking to media persons after participating in the 72nd Republic Day celebrations in Kalaburagi on Tuesday, Mr. Katti hinted that besides these three major crops of the North Karnataka region, the government is planning to distribute ragi, a major crop in South Karnataka districts, through the public distribution shops at subsidised prices. As many as 2.10 lakh families in the State benefited from the National Food Security Act (NFSA) Scheme and 2.10 lakh ration cards have been issued to families coming under below poverty line (BPL) and who are eligible for the Antodaya Anna Yojna Scheme, he added. Mr. Katti urged farmers to withdraw their protest against the three farm laws, as a committee comprising agricultural experts will look into the grievances, if any, in them. Replying to a question, Mr. Katti said that he will focus on long-pending irrigation projects and is committed to the overall development of the North Karnataka region. “My intention is not to divide the State, but I cannot tolerate North Karnataka being discriminated against. If such injustice and discrimination continue against us, we may raise our voice for statehood,” Mr. Katti reiterated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/jowar-red-gram-green-gram-ragi-to-be-distributed-under-pds-from-april/article33671357.ece
27 January 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Draft plan for tourism in Udupi district getting ready||Minister for Fisheries, Ports and Inland Transport S. Angara said on Tuesday that a draft of Vision Plan 2021-31 is now being prepared for the integrated development of tourism spots in Udupi district. Later, it will be submitted to the government for approval. In his Republic Day address in Udupi, the Minister said that the blue print of the vision plan will include the projects to be taken up in the district in the next 10 years for the growth of the tourism sector. The district administration has identified 104 tourism spots in Udupi. Mr. Angara said that the State government has in its tourism policy for 2021-25 identified Udupi district as a priority tourism district and it will help the district administration to promote the tourism sector. The Minister said that the government has released Rs. 5 crore for the integrated development of the coastal area between Trasi and Maravanthe. In addition, Rs. 2 crore has been released for developing Parashurama Theme Park in Karkala taluk. The government has given permission to open five new home stays in the current financial year. It has also permitted four boat houses to promote tourism. The government has sanctioned Rs. 2.54 crore for building 24 classrooms in 19 government schools. Of this amount, Rs. 63.60 lakh has been released. The Bhujanga Park in Udupi is being developed at a cost of Rs. 1 crore. The Minister said that 4,816 health professionals/workers have been vaccinated against COVID-19 in the district till last Saturday. In all, 22,103 health professionals/workers from both government and private sectors have been identified for vaccination in the first phase. The district has received 23,900 vials of vaccination for the first phase. Toppers in SSLC and Pre University examinations of 2020 were felicitated. Headmasters and principals of six institutions which had recorded good result were also honoured. Udupi MLA K. Raghupati Bhat and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/draft-plan-for-tourism-in-udupi-district-getting-ready/article33671454.ece
27 January 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Ramana says NMPT has taken up various development works||New Mangalore Port Trust (NMPT) has undertaken various development works, including modernising three of its gates and providing a dedicated gate for handling cruise passengers. Speaking after hoisting the National Flag during the Republic Day celebrations at NMPT, Chairman A.V. Ramana said that the three gates, U. Srinivas Mallya, K.K. Gate and S.J. Gate, were being modernised. The port will also provide a dedicated gate for the movement of cruise passengers, he said. These modernisation works were being taken up in line with infrastructure development around the port, including four-laning of the National Highway 66, proposed tunnel bypass on Shiradi Ghat of National Highway 75 and other works, the chairman said. Mr. Ramana said that the port has plans to take its throughput to 50 million tonnes by 2025 and 67 million tonnes by 2030. On the occasion, Mr. Ramana inaugurated a Pradhan Mantri Janaushadhi Kendra in NMPT Colony’s Market Complex.  The port will also provide a dedicated gate for the movement of cruise passengers, he says||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ramana-says-nmpt-has-taken-up-various-development-works/article33671442.ece
27 January 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Artisans may benefit from housing schemes||Karnataka State Handicrafts Development Corporation Chairman Beloor Raghavendra Shetty on Monday said that he will discuss with Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa to bring artisans under government housing schemes. Speaking after visiting Namma Bhoomi, a regional resource centre, and Namma Nalanda of “The Concerned for Working Children” near Hattiangadi in Kundapur taluk, Mr. Shetty said that he would also hold discussions with Housing Minister V. Somanna in this connection. He said that he wants artisans to lead a life of self-sustenance even as the next generation too should take up crafts work and as such, he would always respond to their needs. During the visit, Mr. Shetty interacted with Shivanand Shetty, Assistant Director of Namma Nalanda. He said that the corporation will partner with Namma Bhoomi too and extend support available from the State and Union governments to trainees. In the meantime, children of artisans in Udupi district too will get help, he added. In the coming days, he will hear potters, sculptors, wood carvers, bamboo artisans, and seek adequate financial support from the State and Union governments for them. The corporation is already operating “Gurukula” at Sagar where children interested in art crafts are being given training for two years. Besides bearing their boarding and lodging expenditure, the trainees are being paid Rs. 750 assistance. Exhibition Earlier, visiting the handicrafts exhibition organised at the Udupi Sri Krishna Temple/Mutt, Mr. Shetty said that the corporation will open a handicrafts emporium in Udupi at an estimated cost of Rs. 5 crore. A production unit will also start functioning at Kundapur in three months, he added. The corporation has plans to open 12 showrooms in all across the State. During a visit to the Guruvandana Pottery Product unit at Alur village in Kundapur taluk on Saturday, Mr. Shetty said that the corporation would strive to find suitable market for pottery products across the country besides encouraging cottage industry. He will appeal to the Railway Minister to encourage pottery products on trains and at railway stations instead of plastic utensils. Mr. Shetty said that Karnataka Milk Federation too will be urged to use pottery products to market curd, ice cream and such other products.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/artisans-may-benefit-from-housing-schemes/article33671447.ece
27 January 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Netravathi Cabin-Central line doubling nearing completion||Doubling of the 1.5-km railway line between Netravathi Cabin and Mangaluru Central Railway Station was nearing completion and non-interlocked work for connecting the new line to other lines will begin in the second week of February. Announcing this during his Republic Day address after hoisting the National Flag at the divisional headquarters Palakkad on Tuesday, Divisional Railway Manager (DRM) Trilok Kothari also said that the Passenger Reservation System facility was shifted to a new building at Mangaluru Central. Electrification of the 15-km crucial stretch between Mangaluru Junction and Jokatte was completed this month. Electrification of the remaining section between Jokatte and Panambur Yard and sidings within New Mangalore Port is in an advanced stage and it will be completed before March. This will help improve operation of trains as changing of engines, from diesel to electric and vice-versa could be avoided, he said. Mr. Kothari said that the division utilised the COVID-19 lockdown to strengthen the railway infrastructure and emerged as the first division in Southern Railway to have 100 % interlocked level crossings. By completing tamping operations on tracks, there was no tamping overdue of plain tracks resulting in excellent ride quality. Through rail renewals were done on 82-km of track, while deep screening of Ballast by Ballast Cleaning Machine was completed on 82 km of tracks, including deep screening of 28 points and crossings. R. Raghuraman, Additional DRM-I, C.T. Sakkeer Hussain, ADRM-II and others were present. Jethin B. Raj, Divisional Security Commissioner of Railway Protection Force, organised the parade which was commanded by RPF Inspector from Kannur Binoy Antony.  Konkan Railway Konkan Railway Corporation Ltd. celebrated the 72nd Republic Day at its headquarters at Konkan Rail Vihar-Nerul, Navi Mumbai. KRCL Chairman and Managing Director Sanjay Gupta unfurled the National Flag and delivered the Republic Day address. Similar functions were organised in Ratnagiri and Karwar regions of KRCL, said a communiqué.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/netravathi-cabin-central-line-doubling-nearing-completion/article33671445.ece
27 January 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Marches held in city, Udupi to support farmers||Activists of several organisations, including the Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha, the Democratic Youth Federation of India, the Communist Party of India (Marxist), the CPI, the Janavadi Mahila Sanghatane, and the Dalita Sangharsha Samiti, on Tuesday took part in a march here in support of farmers seeking withdrawal of three central Acts. The activists marched from the State Bank bus terminus and culminated near the Clock Tower junction where a protest meet was held. Addressing the protesters, William Fernandes from the Krishi Bhoomi Samrakshana Samiti, which fought against acquisition of land for the Mangalore Special Economic Zone, said the only demand of farmers is the withdrawal of the three Acts and the four ordinances passed by the State government. “This ongoing agitation by farmers will be remembered for a long time,” he said and added that farmers were against the silent moves by the Union and the State governments to corporotise farming. Activist Rajani Rao, who is part of the ‘Namma Bhoomi Nammadu’ campaign, said farmers should not be deprived of the lands they possess. Jayanthi Shetty from the Janavadi Mahisa Sanghatane, Muneer Katipalla from DYFI, Oswald Prakash Fernandes from the Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha, and Setappa Bedarkod from the Dalita Sangharsha Samiti also spoke. Activists from Social Democratic Party of India also held a seperate demonstration in support of farmers near the Clock Town Junction. In the demonstration held at Udupi, activist Phaniraj said the laws brought out by the Union government takes away the right of farmer to get justice in a legal way. The fate of the farmers now will be that akin to labourers and other people in the coming days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/marches-held-in-city-udupi-to-support-farmers/article33671458.ece
27 January 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘Let Kannada be medium of instruction from KG’||Batting for Kannada, senior litterateur Vaidehi said on Tuesday that depriving children of their right to study in their mother tongue or language of the land amounted to sin. Parents deciding the medium of instruction for their children is nothing but a betrayal. Delivering her presidential address at the 14th Udupi District Kannada Sahitya Sammelan at Hangarakatte Chethana High School, the writer asked who gave the right to parents to decide on the medium of instruction for their children. She said that the choice of selecting the medium of instruction should be vested with the children and not with the parents. Ms. Vaidehi said that depriving children of their right to study in a medium of instruction of their choice (mother tongue or language of the land) is like “separating a child from its mother”. She said that if a child has its early education in its mother tongue or the language of the land, it helps in better understanding of the happenings in its surroundings and also strengthens the ability to perceive as the child grows. The writer said that the government should make imparting primary education in Kannada compulsory. Children should be allowed to select the medium of instruction of their interest while entering high school. Ms. Vaidehi said that Kannada as a medium of instruction should be introduced in the kindergarten level. English should be taught as a language and not as a medium of instruction at the primary level. The writer, who has been awarded with both the Sahitya Akademi awards of the Union and State governments, said that Kannada medium schools in the State should put in extra efforts to attract both parents and students to them. The government should also upgrade them with required infrastructure and human resource. Children should be freed from the menace of going after marks. “Don’t make children to hunt after marks,” she advised. Ms. Vaidehi said that whichever may be the government in power, it should put an end to rape and other atrocities against women and it should respond to the plights of farmers. It should create an atmosphere to make marginalised sections of society live honorably. If these three issues are addressed, then it would be great achievement for any government, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/let-kannada-be-medium-of-instruction-from-kg/article33671451.ece
27 January 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||PRCI gets new office-bearers||The Mangaluru Chapter of Public Relations Council of India (PRCI) came to have new office-bearers for 2021-2022 on Tuesday. Raghavendra Holla took charge as Chairman and Canute J. Pinto as Secretary of the chapter. Speaking on the occasion, Rotary District 3181 Governor-nominee Prakash Karanth said that PRCI helps members to develop good communication skills. He urged members to actively take part in the activities of the chapter for their overall personality development. PRCI’s South Zone Chairman Jayaprakash Rao administered the oath of office to the office-bearers. Chairman Emeritus and Chief Mentor of PRCI M.B. Jayaram spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/prci-gets-new-office-bearers/article33671443.ece
27 January 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Kambala races to be held from Jan. 30||Dakshina Kannada Member of Parliament Nalin Kumar Kateel said here on Tuesday that 10 Kambalas (slush track buffalo race) can be organised from January 30, while adhering to COVID-19 guidelines. Speaking at a meeting called in the office of the Deputy Commissioner to discuss organising Kambalas, he said that kkambala is held after harvest from November-December to February-March. It has a history of several years and has received support from the then rulers. Kambala races could not be started on time this year due to COVID-19 reasons. Now, it can start on January 30. Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra stressed the need to follow the guidelines such as wearing mask and ensuring social distancing. He also asked people not to crowd around the venue. He said that Kambala races should be completed by 10 p.m. He said that care should be taken to ensure that children and the elderly did not attend the events. Office-bearers of the Kambala Committee of Dakshina Kannada and Udupi and Kasaragod district of Kerala promised to follow all the health guidelines. They also added that additional volunteers would be appointed to supervise the events.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kambala-races-to-be-held-from-jan-30/article33671449.ece
27 January 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||R-Day fete at KIOCL township||The 72nd Republic Day was celebrated with fervour at Kudremukh Iron Ore Company Limited township in Kavoor on Tuesday. Chairman and Managing Director of KIOCL M.V. Subba Rao hoisted the National Flag, which was followed by a parade. Staff and children from Shakti Educational Trust, Shaktinagar, performed a street play. KIOCL Director (Production and Projects) K.V. Bhaskar Reddy and General Manager in-charge A.V.S. Bhat also took part.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/r-day-fete-at-kiocl-township/article33671455.ece
27 January 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Efforts being made for all-round development of Mysuru: Minister||Minister for Cooperation S.T. Somashekar, who is also Minister in charge of Mysuru district, said efforts were being made for the all-round development of Mysuru. Delivering an address at the 72nd Republic Day address at Bannimantap Grounds here on Tuesday, Mr. Somashekar listed the Rs. 108 crore project to illuminate Mysuru city with energy-efficient LED street lights, group housing project by Mysuru Urban Development Authority (MUDA) to construct 4,000 houses, and Rs. 41 crore project to set up two additional waste treatment plants at Kesare and Rayanakare among the government programmes for Mysuru. While the government has approved the LED street lights programme and the project will be implemented in a year’s time, Mr. Somashekar said survey was under way for the group housing project, which envisaged construction of 4,000 houses at good locations in the city for distribution to the public. The Centre has sought to give a push to micro food processing industry in association with the States under the Prime Minister’s Formalisation of Micro Food Processing Enterprises (PMFME), he said, and added that banana had been chosen for Mysuru district under the “One District One Product”. Bananas are grown in about 12,000 hectares in Mysuru and farmers will be given training to add value and process the products, besides helping them in packing, branding and marketing. Mysuru was one of the prominent cities in the State that was fast developing its economy, he said and added that the industrial activity in the district, which had come to a halt during the peak of COVID-19, was gradually picking up. He said the situation arising out of the outbreak of COVID-19 had been efficiently handled in Mysuru district with the authorities carrying out more tests and keeping the disease under control. The COVID-19 vaccination drive was under way and Mysuru district had received 42,000 doses. With a view to taking the administration closer to the people, Mr. Somashekar said the State government had embarked upon a unique programme titled “Jilla Adhikarigala Nade Halliya Kade” under which the district administration officials will go to the doorsteps of people in the rural parts of the district. The programme will come into force from February 2021 under which the Deputy Commissioner and the district administration officials will compulsorily visit one village on the third Saturday of every month and stay overnight while resolving the grievances of the public. This programme is aimed at helping the public from rural areas avoid visiting the taluk office or the Deputy Commissioner’s office, he said. Mr. Somashekar also expressed happiness over Mysuru district figuring in the third position in the State for progress of work in Revenue Department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/efforts-being-made-for-all-round-development-of-mysuru-minister/article33671473.ece
27 January 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Teams formed, tasks fixed for sprucing up hygiene on ORR||Ahead of Swachh Survekshan-2021, hygiene in the vicinity of Outer Ring Road (ORR), which has turned into a dump yard for solid waste and building debris, posing a health hazard to the residents living in the vicinity, is expected to return as teams comprising officers from various departments had been constituted to clean up the mess that has tainted Mysuru’s status as a clean city. In a development that is expected to make the surroundings of ORR “debris-free”, responsibilities had been fixed on the officers from the Departments of Public Works, Rural Development and Panchayat Raj, State Highways, and KRDCL, besides the Mysuru Urban Development Authority and the Mysuru City Corporation. Each department comprising officers had been entrusted with the task of improving hygiene in the ORR vicinity and help reinstate the city’s image in cleanliness ahead of the crucial survey under Swachh Bharat Mission. Minister in charge of Mysuru district S.T. Somashekar, who chaired a meeting at the government guesthouse here on Tuesday, issued directions on the immediate setting up of the teams for “on-field” measures. Responsibility divided The 42-km long ORR has been divided to facilitate the clean-up operation. For example, the 9-km long stretch between ORR Circle at Columbia Asia Hospital till another ORR junction at Hinkal flyover has been assigned to the Department of Public Works. Likewise, the task of maintaining cleanliness on the 7.5-km stretch from Hinkal flyover Circle to Aditya Circle in Dattagalli to the Department of Rural Development and Panchayat Raj. Similarly, the 8.39-km stretch from Aditya Circle in Dattagalli to Bandipalya Circle on Mysuru-Nanjangud Highway has been entrusted to the State Highways Department, which has also been given the task of clearing flex and illegal hoardings along the entire stretch. Nirmithi Kendra, Mysuru, and KRDCL has been given the responsibility of ensuring cleanliness between Bandipalya Circle till T.Narsipur-Bannur Road ORR stretch, covering a distance of 9.33-km. From T. Narsipur-Bannur road ORR stretch to Columbia Asia Hospital ORR Circle covering a distance of 7.5 km, the exercise will be handled by MUDA. The MCC has been told to ensure cleanliness around the ORR surroundings besides looking after the hygiene status on the major roads leading to the city. Mr. Somashekar said: “Each department has been given responsibilities. Discussions on this were held. Another round of discussions will be held to fix any more responsibilities or make any changes to the already prepared list of tasks entrusted on the departments.” The Minister told the MCC and the MUDA to issue statements in the media to send a message to the public that dumping of waste on roads, including ORR and the city roads, attracts penalty and imprisonment. The meeting also took serious note of dumping of meat waste on roadsides and vacant spots. A decision was taken to identify such wrongdoers and penalise them to stop them from throwing garbage or meat waste indiscriminately on the roads and empty sites causing an unhygienic atmosphere. The meeting also resolved to entrust the task of cleaning the medians on the outer ring road besides clearing debris and solid wastes on the ORR, its service road, and pedestrian paths.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/teams-formed-tasks-fixed-for-sprucing-up-hygiene-on-orr/article33671476.ece
27 January 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Focus on producing export quality, chemical-free jaggery||Units making jaggery in Mandya are all set to get support under “One District One Product” scheme and steps will be taken to encourage the “Alemane” operators to switch over to chemical-free jaggery production adopting latest technologies, which is expected to go a long way in exporting jaggery from the State’s sugar bowl, improving farm income. At a meeting held in Mandya on Tuesday attended by Minister in charge of Mandya district Narayana Gowda, Minister for Cooperation S.T. Somashekar and Mandya MP Sumalatha and others, the district officials said chemical-free jaggery production will help farmers improve their income besides increasing the chances of their produce being chosen for export. The scheme that has chosen jaggery as the product from Mandya is expected to support units.  ‘One District One Product’ Under Atmanirbhar Bharat scheme, micro and small food processing units are being encouraged and promoted and ‘One District One Product’ is one of the aims of the scheme, the meeting was told. Ms. Sumalatha said organic jaggery from Mandya is yet to be branded. This needs promotion and marketing. If Mandya jaggery makers want more price, it should be export quality. Committees set up for improving the quality and production can look into these issues. Mr. Narayana Gowda said all support would be extended to jaggery makers as the district has over 500 units. Mr. Somashekar said the government was committed to “Alemane” rejuvenation and asked the Deputy Commissioner to send a report on the jaggery making units setting up a committee to look into the needs of the units for their renovation. Steps will be taken to include the need for allocation in the ensuing State budget for the jaggery making units if the report was submitted at the earliest. Discussions had taken place on jaggery units which are expected to get Rs. 5 lakh to Rs. 10 lakh as financial aid for their rejuvenation. A sum of Rs. 25 crore to Rs. 30 crore loan would be raised for the units under Atma Nirbhar Bharat, he said. Mandya Alemane Association president Somashekar Gowda said sugarcane should get a suitable price from the government. Srikante Gowda, MLC, sought licences for jaggery making units as no bank would give loans to them unless they are certified by a government agency. The units must first get basic facilities and later the scheme can be implemented for their rejuvenation, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/focus-on-producing-export-quality-chemical-free-jaggery/article33671475.ece
27 January 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||First bird survey at Nagarahole park concludes||The first-ever bird survey conducted for Nagarahole at the park level and which concluded on Tuesday, indicates the presence of 270 bird species in the national park. These are preliminary finding and the list includes the red-headed vulture and the white-rumped vulture which are critically endangered as per IUCN list apart from migratory birds like the bar-headed geese. Experts aver that the red-headed vulture was, till a few decades ago, quite abundant and its habitat extended across the Indian Sub-continent besides spreading to south and south-east Asia. But today, its range is restricted and is critically endangered. The Nagarahole Tiger Reserve Director Mahesh Kumar told The Hindu that six new species have been added to the known list of Nagarahole but the checklist was still being finalised. This is the first attempt to build an authentic checklist because the earlier data pertaining to the presence of birds was based on the findings logged by individuals on the e-bird app. The check-list of 270 species include greenish warbler, greater spotted eagle, spot-bellied eagle owl, montagu harrier, nilgiri flowerpecker, black redstart to name a few. Mr. Mahesh Kumar said the data pertaining to the bird will help ascertain the park managers about the requirements of the smaller fauna which is seldom taken into account in park management. ‘’Unless we know what we have we cannot manage,” he added. Though Nagarahole had a bird checklist and is known to support a large number of species, this is an official record of the birds that are generally found in the tiger reserve, said Mr. Mahesh Kumar. Also some are migratory in nature and the present documentation will help create a more robust data pertaining to the birds of Nagarahole. In all, 75 volunteers from five States - Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Maharashtra and Telengana – took part in the survey exercise of which 36 were students of college of forestry at Ponnampet and all of them were supported by Eco Volunteers India Trust. ‘’There were over 300 registrations but 104 were filtered out of which 75 took part in the survey. This is not to be confused with bird census as the volunteers were scouting for different species and were not so much concerned about the bird numbers,” said Mr. Kumar. The participants were a mix of experienced birders and amateurs too as the park managers wanted to ignite the spirt of conservation in the new generation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/first-bird-survey-at-nagarahole-park-concludes/article33671479.ece
27 January 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Preparatory meet held||Minister for Housing V. Somanna, who is also Minister in charge of Kodagu district, presided over a preparatory meeting ahead of President Ram Nath Kovind’s visit to Kodagu on February 6. Former Chief of Army Staff General K.S. Thimayya’s residence “Sunny Side” in Madikeri, which was recently renovated, has been converted into a museum. The President is scheduled to inaugurate the Gen. K.S. Thimayya Museum on February 6. Mr. Somanna told reporters on Tuesday that the President will arrive in Bengaluru on February 5 before reaching Kodagu the next day by helicopter. He is also scheduled to visit Bhagamandala and Talacauvery, where he will offer special puja. Entry of general public to Talacauvery will be restricted on February 5 and 6.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/preparatory-meet-held/article33671471.ece
27 January 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Trade unions lead protest against farm laws||Scores of trade union activists and farmers staged a demonstration in Mysuru on Tuesday demanding the abrogation of the farm laws against which farmers were agitating across the country. Led by All India Trade Union Congress (AITUC) and Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU), farmers and activists said the farm will have a direct bearing on the food security of the country in the long run apart from jeopardising the future of the farmers. The activists said the government should not only abrogate the three laws as it pertained to the future of the farming community, but it would also have a direct and indirect bearing on the entire population of the country. The new laws as promulgated, will enable the business community and industrialists to take control over farming and the pricing mechanism will be determined by them, according to farmers. There were also apprehensions that the existing APMC markets and the minimum support price mechanism will cease and farmers would be at the mercy of the vagaries of market. Describing the Centre under Prime Minister Narendra Modi as “anti-farmer and anti-people”, the AITUC said while the farmers are being pushed to the brink on one hand, the condition of workers was equally bad on the other. The trade union leaders said the government had diluted the labour law and in its pursuit of easing of doing business, the working class interests have been bartered to make it easy for managements to hire and fire, which had erased the concept of job security.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/trade-unions-lead-protest-against-farm-laws/article33671472.ece
27 January 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||‘Work on waste treatment plants at Rayanakere and Kesare to begin soon’||Minister in charge of Mysuru district S.T. Somashekar on Tuesday assured that the work on the much-awaited waste treatment plants at Kesare and Rayanakere will begin soon. The waste treatment plants had been proposed more than five years ago to reduce the pressure on the existing plant at Vidyaranyapuram on the outskirts of the city. Delivering his Republic Day address at Bannimantap Grounds here on Tuesday, Mr. Somashekar said the tender process for setting up the waste treatment plants at a cost of Rs. 41 crore had been completed. “Work will begin soon,” he said, while claiming that the two waste treatment plants will help keep the city clean. Mysuru city generates around 450 tonnes of waste each day, which is more than double its treatment capacity at the lone waste treatment plant at Vidyaranyapuram. With more than 200 tonnes of waste added to the growing mountains of legacy waste, the residents of areas in the vicinity of the treatment plant had been protesting against dumping of the city’s waste in their backyard. While the waste treatment plant at Kesare will have a capacity to treat 200 tonnes per day, the one at Rayanakere will have a capacity of 150 tonnes per day. Waste management in Mysuru has become a challenge for the civic authorities in Mysuru. Not only do they have to contend with the sharp increase in generation of per capita waste over the last few years, but also the waste from an expanding city. In addition, there is the waste generated from the new areas which had developed on the outskirts of the city in the last few years. The waste generated from most of the residential areas outside the limits of the Mysuru City Corporation is found dumped along the Outer Ring Road creating an eyesore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/work-on-waste-treatment-plants-at-rayanakere-and-kesare-to-begin-soon/article33671478.ece
27 January 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Freight traffic augments Mysuru Division’s revenue||The Business Development Unit of the Mysuru Divisional Railway has been able to capture new streams of traffic despite the pandemic and has helped shore up revenue during the current fiscal. The BDU was constituted across all the railway divisions in the country during the lockdown and at the behest of the Ministry of Railways to give a thrust to freight traffic. One of the objectives was also to enable the ease of doing business by reaching out to the potential customers and make them shift their mode of freight transport from road to rail. Following its constitution some months ago, the division has augmented its freight in food grains, automobile, and iron. Rahul Agarwal, Divisional Railway Manager, Mysuru Division, said that this was besides retaining the traditional freight basket.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/freight-traffic-augments-mysuru-divisions-revenue/article33671456.ece
27 January 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||72nd R-Day celebrated in Yadgir, Raichur||Deputy Chief Minister Laxman Savadi unfurled the National Flag at the District Police Parade Grounds in Raichur on Tuesday to celebrate the 72nd Republic Day. He said that India has produced a great Constitution which is considered to be one of the biggest in the world, and it was authentically implemented on January 26, 1950 as the country started functioning afresh after freedom from the British. Remembering the sacrifices made by freedom fighters, Mr. Savadi, who is also district in-charge, said that Mahatma Gandhi, Jawaharlal Nehru, Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, Lal Bahadur Shastri and Netaji Subhaschandra Bose contributed immensely to India getting Independence and thereafter, B.R. Ambedkar played a commendable role in formulating the Constitution. “And, now, we are all enjoying fundamental rights,” he said. “India is a country where citizens can enjoy rights of equality, freedom of expression and many other such freedoms irrespective of their caste and religion, as enshrined in the Constitution. We are celebrating this day to remember the implementation of the Constitution,” Mr. Savadi said. While appreciating the State government’s efforts in handling COVID-19, Mr. Savadi said that under the leadership of Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, the State government has taken many initiatives to control the disease. “Now, we are distributing vaccine against COVID-19 and Raichur district has received 9,000 vaccine doses so far in the first phase,” he said. He also listed out many development works and said that the government is committed to taking the district to the next level as far as development is concerned. MLAs Shivaraj Patil, Basanagowda Daddal, MLC Basavaraj Patil Itagi, Deputy Commissioner R. Venkatesh Kumar, Superintendent of Police Prakash Nikam, ZP CEO Shaikh Tanveer and others were present. In Yadgir Minister for Mines and Geology Murugesh Nirani hoisted the tricolor at the Pre University College Grounds in Yadgir as part of the Republic Day celebrations. He said that the young generation should study the freedom struggle and understand the sacrifices of national leaders to bring Independence to the countrymen. They should join hands in nation building by involving themselves in different sectors. “Our government is focusing on developing the agriculture, irrigation, education and health sectors, while taking initiatives to create jobs for unemployed youths,” he said. The Minister said that Rs. 23.62 crore compensation was directly credited to the accounts of 39,355 beneficiaries who had lost crops during the heavy rain and floods in September and October last year. The process of releasing compensation to 31,175 more beneficiaries is under way. For damage caused to houses, a compensation of Rs. 4.97 crore has been sanctioned to Rajiv Gandhi Housing Corporation. Mr. Nirani lauded medical officers, doctors and officers of various government departments for handling the COVID-19 situation well. He said that Yadgir district now has a full-fledged 300-bed hospital. Soon, it will also have a medical college for which Mr. Yediyurappa laid the foundation stone during his recent visit. MLA and Chairman of Urban Water Supply and Sanitation Board Narasimha Naik, MLA Venkatareddy Mudnal, MLC B.G. Patil, Chairman of Nijasharana Ambigara Chowdayya Development Corporation Baburao Chinchansur, president of Yadgir CMC Vilas Patil, vice-president of ZP Girijamma, Deputy Commissioner R. Ragapriya and Superintendent of Police Rishikesh Sonawane were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/72nd-r-day-celebrated-in-yadgir-raichur/article33671360.ece
27 January 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Tractor rally in twin dists||Several hundreds of farmers and activists from various organisations participated in a tractor rally which was taken out in both Yadgir and Raichur districts on Tuesday. To extended solidarity with the ongoing protest by farmers in the national capital, farmers supported by various organisations and farmers wing of the Congress participated in rally in the two districts. Wearing green shawls on their shoulders, farmers, who came on tractors, shouted slogans against the Union government for bringing in the new farm laws and said that the government has been trying to please big industrialists while pushing farmers into trouble.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tractor-rally-in-twin-dists/article33671361.ece
27 January 2021||January 27 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||New terminal on track for mid- February opening||South Western Railway (SWR) is hoping to complete pending works of the new ‘Sir M. Visvesvaraya Terminal’ at Baiyyappanahalli by mid-February. The terminal is built on the lines of the one at Kempegowda International Airport (KIA) and is being projected as a future transport hub. SWR plans to run-long distance train services from the terminal to various destinations in the country, including Mumbai and Chennai. Officials are also contemplating running intra-State services from the terminal. Last year, officials had maintained that the terminal, which was sanctioned in 2015-16, would start commercial operations by May 2020. However, due to the COVID-19 pandemic and other factors, work got delayed. SWR is hoping to meet the February deadline. Once operational, the new terminal will help decongest Krantiveera Sangolli Rayanna City Railway Station and Yeshwantpur railway station. Sources said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi is likely to inaugurate the new facility. SWR estimates that the project cost is Rs. 314 crore. SWR Chief PRO E. Vijaya said, “The new terminal is spread to over 4,200 square metres and can handle passenger footfall of 50,000 per day. It has seven platforms, eight stabling lines and three pit lines. It can handle 50 trains every day.” The terminal has been designed to maximise comfort for passengers. It has a fully air-conditioned lobby, waiting hall, real-time passenger information system, VIP lounge, and a food court. It has a water recycling plant of four-lakh-litre capacity and provision for rainwater harvesting. Rail activist K.N. Krishna Prasad said, “This is a long-delayed project. The authorities should expedite completion of the project. At present, the terminal lacks integration with Namma Metro stations. The absence of a good network with Old Madras Road is also a concern. There is a need to prioritise construction of the RoB in Baiyappanahalli, which has been pending for years. Not having good access to the terminal may result in poor passenger footfall.” A few days ago, officials of BBMP, SWR and other public utility companies had visited the area to discuss the building of access roads. The BBMP has proposed a four-lane road from the terminal to Old Madras Road.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/new-terminal-on-track-for-mid-february-opening/article33671107.ece
27 January 2021||January 27 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Public hearing dates for revision of power tariff||The Karnataka Electricity Regulatory Commission (KERC) has announced the dates for public hearing regarding the proposed revision of electricity tariffs. The public hearings will take place between February 15 and 25, beginning with the hearing for the Bangalore Electricity Supply Company (Bescom) at the KERC’s Vasanthnagar office. The public hearing for KPTCL will be held on February 16 at the same venue. The last hearing will be held for the Gulbarga Electricity Supply Company on February 25. Bescom has sought an average hike of Rs. 1.39 per unit for FY 2021-22. In November 2020, the KERC had announced an increase in tariff by an average 40 paise per unit. However, due to the extraordinary circumstances in a pandemic-hit year, the Commission had decided to make the new tariffs applicable from November instead of April.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/public-hearing-dates-for-revision-of-power-tariff/article33671104.ece
27 January 2021||January 27 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Case against KIMS executives quashed||The High Court of Karnataka has set aside criminal proceedings initiated against the executives of Kempegowda Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS) in a cheating case, by holding that the officer of Central Crime Branch (CCB), who filed the chargesheet, was not authorised to submit the final report as per provisions of the Cr.PC. “When the CCB is not a police station then admittedly the final report filed by the CCB, which is an investigating agency, is not in contemplation with the provisions of Section 173(2) of the Cr.PC,” the High Court held. The High Court set aside the cognisance of offences taken by the magistrate court in 2017 based on a chargesheet filed by the CCB. Justice B.A. Patil (now retired) passed the order on January 18 while allowing the petitions filed by M.G. Gopal, the then Principal and Dean of KIMS, Appaji Gowda, the then president of Rajya Vokkaligara Sangha, which manages KIMS, and Nisarga, then Chairman, Governing Council, KIMS. The case was registered against them in 2016 based on a complaint filed by K.R. Choudary alleging that his son was denied a seat in MBBS course during 2014-15 despite collecting money. As the State government has not declared CCB as a police station, the officer of the CCB cannot be termed as “an officer in-charge of the police station” to submit final report as the Cr.PC authorises only the “officer in-charge of the police station” to submit final probe report, the court held.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/case-against-kims-executives-quashed/article33671130.ece
27 January 2021||January 27 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||‘Leopard may have moved to Hulimavu lake’||The leopard that was sighted in an apartment complex in Begur is suspected to have moved towards Hulimavu lake, forest officials said. Captured on camera After being captured on CCTV camera at Prestige Song of the South apartment complex on Saturday, Forest Department officials stepped up combing operations. ‘No sighting’ S.M. Shivaratreshwara, Range Forest Officer, K.R. Puram, who is heading the operations, said there was no sighting of the leopard despite using drones with cameras from Monday. “It is a very sensitive animal. We suspect it migrated towards Hulimavu lake,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/leopard-may-have-moved-to-hulimavu-lake/article33671102.ece
27 January 2021||January 27 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Class on wheels||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/class-on-wheels/article33671109.ece
27 January 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Students take out rally with 1,500-foot flag||Students and other citizens took out a rally carrying a 1,500-feet tricolour in the streets of Roddam town in Anantapur district on Tuesday on the occasion of Republic Day. The flag was made by a social worker, Donti Lokesh Gupta. The students of government college took up the task of parading in the streets from their college in the town. The students were lead by college principal B. Gurumurthy and social workers D. Lakshminarayana Gupta and Devaraj. Mr. Lokesh Gupta said: “At a time when the younger generation was not aware of the significance of the national flag and the Constitution of India, we thought of involving the youth to educate them on the Indian Democracy and its values.” At the Anantapur campus of Central University of Andhra Pradesh, the tricolour was unfurled by Vice-Chancellor S.A. Kori. He released the first-ever newsletter ‘Riviso’ of the university in the presence of its editor Krishna Mohan. On Sri Krishnadevaraya University campus too a massive flag was unfurled by Vice-Chancellor M. Ramakrishna Reddy. Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University faculty members Sashidhar and Vasundra received merit certificates from the District Collector at the 72nd Republic Day celebrations at the Police Parade Grounds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/students-take-out-rally-with-long-flag/article33671063.ece
27 January 2021||ANANTAPUR/KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Ensuring welfare of all should be our aim’||The District Collectors of Anantapur and Kurnool on Tuesday called for cooperation of all officials and people in taking forward the dream of the State government in ensuring welfare of the citizens, during the 72nd Republic Day celebrations at respective Police Parade Grounds. Anantapur Collector Gandham Chandrudu appreciated the effort put in by the officials in fulfilling the objectives of the Navaratnalu schemes. Detailing the achievements in different fields, the Collector said keeping the district in the forefront in all walks of life was the aim of the administration. He inspected the guard of honour along with Superintendent of Police B. Satya Yesu Babu. At the Police Parade Grounds near Kondareddy Buruju in Kurnool, District Collector G. Veerapandian congratulated the officials for their dedicated work during the COVID-19 pandemic and continuing the development of the district even during difficult times. He also promised to lend all support to them in implemented the government programmes in true spirit. Superintendent of Police Fakkeerappa Kaginelli along with the Collector inspected the contingents in the parade and gave away merit certificates to the employees. Joint Collectors Ram Sundar Reddy, Syed Khaja Mohiuddin, and Municipal Commissioner D.K. Balaji attended the celebrations after the unfurling the National Flag.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ensuring-welfare-of-all-should-be-our-aim/article33671487.ece
27 January 2021||CHINTOOR (EAST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||Tribes from Sukma still live in the crosshairs||It was a dark, chilly night in the winter of 2005. Madivi Appa (name changed), a Koya tribal, began a long trek along with his kin through the forests of the Dandakaranya in Chhattisgarh, accompanied by three other families. They were fleeing their remote village on foot , leaving behind their homes, fields and belongings. While they had no destination in mind, their goal was clear — to escape the Maoist-Salwa Judum crossfire in which they had become unwitting scapegoats. Survival for the tribes in this region was getting difficult by the day. Already in the crosshairs of the Maoist conflict, things took a worse turn after the rise of Salwa Judum, a militia comprising local tribal youth that was deployed to counter the left-wing extremists with the support of the Chhattisgarh government. Winter horror Mr. Appa decided to flee after tragedy knocked on his door. “The Maoists caught hold of my 32-year-old cousin, and accused our family of feeding information to the government. We pleaded to them that government representatives meet us as we are the ‘Patels’ of our village, and assured them that we had never planned to join the Salwa Judum. We even offered them our cattle, harvest and everything we had. But they did not pay heed and executed my cousin ,” recounted Mr. Appa. The Maoists wanted to send out a message that any villager wishing to join the Salwa Judum would have to pay with his life, he said. “On that night, we walked nearly 40 km, leaving behind our harvested sesame, house, cattle, and our 20 acres of land. We did not know if we would be able return to our village ever. We just wanted to live in peace. We reached the Chintoor forests in undivided Andhra Pradesh and made it our home,” said Mr. Appa. The Maoists killed 173 special police officers (Koya Commandos) of the Salwa Judum in Chhattisgarh between 2005 and 2011. Thousands of tribals fled their villages in the Dandakaranya and arrived in A.P. In July 2011, the Supreme Court declared Salwa Judum unconstitutional, directing the Chhattisgarh government to disband it. . By then, over 6,660 tribal people from the region—Sukma, Dantewarda and Bijapur districts— had settled in twin Godavari districts. A majority of them fled during the conflict between 2005 and 2011. The first batch of four families including that of Mr. Appa arrived in Chintoor forest in 2015. Now, the settlement has 19 families (Internally Displaced People). The new conflict “A new conflict has emerged . Those who had chosen to stay back during the conflict are now not ready to allow us to return. They say we chose to flee to safe zones,” said a 20-year-old Koya youth who lives in the same settlement. “Now, we can no longer return to our native villages and stake claim on our land and ancestral properties. Our families are scared to return now,” he added. A group of activists working for the development of the IDPs said that it is time the government framed a policy to decide the future of the internally displaced tribes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tribes-from-sukma-still-live-in-the-crosshairs/article33671496.ece
27 January 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Parents arrested amid high drama for murder of two daughters||High drama marked the arrest of the couple, accused in the murder of their two unmarried daughters, at their residence at Madanapalle in the district on Tuesday. A special police party posted at the house since Sunday night had to control the mob frenzy and resistance of the couple during the arrest. Purushottam Naidu (55) and Padmaja (50) who allegedly hit and stabbed their daughters Alekhya (27) and Sai Divya (22) with dumb-bells and a trident, are reportedly believed to be under the influence of occult practices observed inside their house during the last few days. 0Amidst tense moments, the police assisted the relatives of the deceased to perform the funeral rites on Monday evening, after conducting a post-mortem. ‘Believed in resurrection’ Deputy SP A. Ravi Manohar Achari told The Hindu that the preliminary investigation pointed to the role of the couple in the twin murders. “As per the couple’s version, their two daughters had been unwell for a week and complained to their mother that they were experiencing breathlessness and had seen strange figures in the house. The youngest daughter had reportedly forced the mother to kill her as she could not bear the torment of some unseen forces. The girl had threatened to commit suicide if they failed to kill her. Divya Sai was brutally done to death around afternoon (Sunday). A few hours later, eldest daughter Alekhya, also under the influence of occult practices, had reportedly forced the parents to kill her. The contention was that her death would lead to resurrection of her sibling. The couple followed through the elder daughter’s morbid suggestion around late evening,” the Deputy SP said. The police officer said the father and mother were booked as A1 and A2 respectively under IPC 302 for the murders. “We have verified the CC camera footage in the vicinity of the house and there is no possibility for involvement of any outsiders such as mendicants,” the DSP said. Circle inspector M. Srinivasulu said the couple was arrested on Tuesday, two days after the killings, due to the post-mortem procedure and funeral rites, and the hysterical condition of the accused. The duo was produced in the Madanapalle court and sent in remand. Strange claims Meanwhile, Padmaja, while being taken to the Government Hospital at Madanapalle for COVID-19 test, kept shouting in English: “I am Lord Shiva. Shiva is come. Work is done.” She refused to take the test claiming that she had created coronavirus and she herself was coronavirus. However, her husband had cooperated with the staff for the test and the post-arrest procedures, police said. All the four members of the family were highly educated and the family owned properties worth several crores of rupees, according to the police. Information pertaining to the books they had read and people they had met, along with their behaviour on the social media would be verified to ascertain their mental condition, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/parents-held-for-double-murder-in-ap/article33670982.ece
27 January 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Medical fraternity vows to continue fight against COVID||Medical fraternity of various health centres, community and referral hospitals in Chittoor district on Tuesday reiterated their commitment to continue relentless fight against the pandemic. District Medical and Health Officer M. Penchalaiah, taking part in the 72nd Republic Day celebrations at the DMHO office here, said that the spirit of the occasion should continue to guide the medical staff to dedicate their services to the public safety. Announcing the Best Services Award to various primary health centres, the official said that the medical officers should try their best to be friendly with the patients. He said that with advancement of medical facilities, the rural health care underwent a sea of change everywhere, and that the public needed more awareness programmes on facilities at government hospitals. Andhra Pradesh Government Doctors’ Association Secretary P. Ravi Raju, who received appreciation as the Best Nodal Officer during the pandemic, said that despite crossing the 87,000 cases-mark and 845 casualties in Chittoor district, the entire medical and paramedical staff had remained focused on tackling the pandemic. He sought the medical and paramedical staff to continue guard on the pandemic, and persuade the patients and visitors to adhere to the COVID-19 rules. “Top priority should be given to dispel apprehensions about vaccination among the health workers and other target groups,” Dr Ravi Raju added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/health-staff-vow-to-continue-fight-against-covid/article33671488.ece
27 January 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Outsider’s role in killings remote: SP||Superintendent of Police S. Senthil Kumar said that the swift move of the police led to the saving of the lives of the couple, who allegedly killed their daughters. Speaking to the media here on Tuesday, the SP said when circle inspector M. Srinivasulu and SI Dilip Kumar reached there, the couple was in a state of delirium and about to resort to self-destruction. The police helped the accused couple to regain their balance of mind in the face of the unnerving sight of the murdered daughters before them,” Mr Senthil Kumar said. “A probe is under way in this case and the hand of a third person (other than the couple) is remote in the crime,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/outsiders-role-remote-sp/article33671508.ece
27 January 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||We have effectively tackled COVID: Collector||District Collector I. Samuel Ananda Kumar has said the district administration is able to save many precious lives by effectively containing the spread of COVID-19 virus. Mr. Samuel Ananda Kumar, during his address to the people, after unfurling the national flag at the 72nd Republic Day celebrations held here at Police Parade Grounds, said that 16 district emergency response teams were formed to tackle the pandemic. Out of 11.34 lakh people tested for COVID-19, over 77,300 positive cases surfaced with a positivity ratio of 6.94%. “The district administration is also taking measures in view of the new variant and set up helpdesks at airports at Gannavaram and Shamshabad. Out of 286 people, whose swans were collected, four persons tested positive. About 2,000 of their primary and secondary contacts have been tested and 13 have turned positive.” The samples of 14 swabs have been sent to Centre for Cellular Molecular Biology. Elaborating on the COVID-19 efforts, the Collector said that 78,500 vaccine doses have been supplied to the district (7,850 vials), out of which, 16,148 government medical personnel, 17,360 private personnel and 4,704 anganwadi personnel were administered vaccine. In the second phase, 4,215 revenue personnel, 6,033 police, 11,815 municipal staff and 22,506 panchayat personnel would be given vaccine. As many as 179 vaccine centres have been set up, where 10,352 persons administered vaccine. “I thank Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy for guiding us during the tough times and also ensuring the welfare schemes are delivered at the doorstep of people. We have collected 1,705 acres of government land, 4,543 acres of private land with Rs. 1,960 crore. We have made layouts in 6,248 acres and have given house-site pattas to 2.84 lakh people under PMAY-YSR Pedalandariki Illu,” said the Collector. Felicitated Later, he felicitated freedom fighter Pavuluri Sivaramakrishnaiah at the latter’s residence. Cultural programmes were held to mark the day and service awards were given away to government and non-government organisations and personnel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/we-have-effectively-tackled-covid-19-says-collector/article33671065.ece
27 January 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sajjala favours unanimous elections for panchayats||Government Advisor (Public Affairs) Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy has appealed to all stakeholders in the panchayat polls to strive for unanimous elections to avoid friction and expenditure and make use of the incentives announced. Elders must sort out the issue as the elections are being held on non-party basis, he told the media here on Tuesday adding the recently amended legislation has a provision for disqualification and jail term for any lapses. On the positive side, incentives can be availed for unanimous polls though vested interests are planning otherwise. Conspiracy alleged The government has taken the administration to the doorstep through village secretariat and volunteer system. “A conspiracy to incite hatred is going on in villages by the opposition parties,” he alleged and advised the contestants not to fall in their trap. Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy warned that anyone proved guilty of conspiracy and violence would be disqualified under the law. Those found enticing in the election could attarct to two years of imprisonment and will be disqualified for six years. He explained that there should be more unanimous elections, as the government has enhanced the incentives ranging from Rs. 5lakh to Rs. 20 lakh, based on the population. He said that leaving the MPTC and ZPTC polls in the middle and announcing notification for panchayat elections makes one skeptical about the State Election Commissioner (SEC).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sajjala-favours-unanimous-elections-for-panchayats/article33671555.ece
27 January 2021||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Wives of freedom fighters felicitated||At Kadapa, Collector C. Hari Kiran unfurled the national flag in the presence of Superintendent of Police K.K.N. Anburajan, Joint Collectors M. Gauthami (Revenue), Saikant Varma (Development) and Dharma Chandra Reddy (Asara) and inspected the parade. The tableaux by departments of Water Resources, Animal Husbandry, Civil Supplies, Medical and Health, Sanjeevani, Housing, Education, Panchayat Raj and ICDS among others stood as a highlight. District Judge Purushotham Kumar attended as a special guest and felicitated the wives of freedom fighters, Ramalinga Raju, R. Pakeerappa and V. Subbaiah. At Andhra Pragati Grameena Bank headquarters, Chairman Rakesh Kashyap unfurled the flag and attributed the freedom enjoyed today to the sacrifice of yesteryear stalwarts. He envisaged impressive rural penetration by the bank in the forthcoming years. General Managers Mukteswara Rao and B.S. Ananta Padmanabba Rao and others took part.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/wives-of-freedom-fighters-felicitated/article33671494.ece
27 January 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Input subsidy of Rs. 59.1 cr. disbursed to farmers’||East Godavari Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy on Tuesday said that the construction of 53,626 houses has commenced in the first phase under the Pedalandariki Illu scheme in the district. In his Republic Day address after unfurling the flag at the Police Parade Grounds here, Mr. Muralidhar Reddy said Rs. 59.1 crore of input subsidy was disbursed to farmers affected by a series of floods that damaged the standing crops during the last monsoon. “The past few months have been dedicated to improve facilities in the government schools under the Naadu-Nedu scheme, in which 1,336 schools have been renovated by spending Rs. 320 crore in the district,” said Mr. Muralidhar Reddy. Joint Collector G. Lakshmisha, Superintendent of Police Adnan Nayeem Asmi and other officials were present in the celebrations. The employees received the best service awards during the celebrations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/construction-of-houses-commenced-in-eg-district/article33671489.ece
27 January 2021||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Yaganti temple mandapam stone beam breaks||A stone beam of the mandapam that houses the Nandi idol at the Sri Yaganti Uma Maheswara temple in the district broke on Monday afternoon allegedly due to the blasts done at illegal mining sites within a 5 km radius of the temple, Archaeological Survey of India and Endowments Department officials have said. Fortunately, the beam did not collapse but remained intact on one end. None was hurt in the incident. Temple Executive Officer Devulapalli Prasad told The Hindu on Tuesday that ASI officials had propped up the beam with some metal pipes. “During my routine inspection, I found the beam broken and hanging and informed the ASI officer. There is no immediate danger of the structure falling,” the EO said. He expressed concern over the illegal mining activity continuing in the vicinity of the temple with loud sounds and vibrations coming from the blasts done there. Mines closed ASI Kurnool district in-charge Y. Dhaka Reddy said all the mines were closed up to Basvannakatta near the Yaganti temple two years ago, but some miscreants kept conducting blasts for illegal mining which was impacting the 15th century structure.  Mining and Geology Assistant Director Venugopal expressed concern at the illegal mining activity continuing though 12 of the leases for mosaic chips/ colour stones, were cancelled.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/yaganti-temple-mandapam-beam-breaks/article33670980.ece
27 January 2021||NELLORE/ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Republic Day celebrated with gusto as active cases dip||With incidence of coronavirus subsiding, the 72nd Republic Day was celebrated with enthusiasm across South Coastal Andhra on Tuesday. Wearing face masks, people from different walks of life came out of their houses to celebrate the day, by unfurling the tricolour in both Nellore and Prakasam districts. Speaking after inspecting a parade, SPSR Nellore District Collector K.V.N. Chakradhar Babu said the worst seemed to be over. The district stood first in the recovery rate among COVID patients and 24th in the country in mobilising plasma units to treat critical cases, he said while making mention of relentless efforts of the frontline warriors in fighting the disease. As many as 14,000 health workers were vaccinated in the last 10 days. Upcoming projects He highlighted a host of welfare schemes and development programmes being implemented by the district administration. Students’ talents came to the fore during the cultural programmes that followed. Tableaux put on the occasion highlighted the achievements of various government departments. In Ongole, District Collector P. Bhaskar participated in the celebrations at the parade grounds and said farmers could expect Krishna water to their crops during coming kharif season, thanks to completion of the much-awaited tunnel I of the Pula Subbaiah Veligonda project. Meanwhile, the death rate was 0.93% in the district, where over 9 lakh persons tested positive for coronavirus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/r-day-celebrated-with-gusto-as-active-cases-dip/article33671491.ece
27 January 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Many development activities under way’||Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams Additional Executive Officer A.V. Dharma Reddy on Tuesday said the management has taken up renovation of cottages and rest houses, Alipiri footpath, construction of a new parakamani hall in addition to revival of SV museum at a cost of Rs. 120 crore, all of which he said would be completed by the year-end. ‘Laddu’ production to be upped To meet the demand for the ‘laddu’, efforts are under way to enhance its production to 7.50 lakh a day against its present capacity of three lakh, he said. Mr. Reddy, who hoisted the national flag at his office as part of the 72nd Republic Day celebrations, recalled the sacrifices of freedom fighters and said the management is determined to protect the sanctity of the hill town, the “spiritual capital of Hindus”. He said the introduction of donation-linked VIP darshan facility under the SriVani Trust has not only rooted out middlemen menace but also has fetched the administration Rs. 100 crore in little over a year. The management has also embarked on various spiritual programmes during the lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/many-development-activities-under-way/article33671493.ece
27 January 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘4.26 lakh pilgrims had darshan through Vaikunta Dwaram’||Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams Executive Officer K.S. Jawahar Reddy has said that 4.26 lakh pilgrims were provided darshan through the ‘Vaikunta Dwaram’ for 10 days by duly following COVID-19 protocol. Speaking after unfurling the tricolour at the Republic Day celebrations here on Tuesday, he said the decision to keep the much-revered threshold open for 10 days for the first time ever was taken after consulting 26 Peethadipathis and implemented during December 25 to January 3. “The TTD could successfully overcome COVID crisis and the lockdown with team effort from the strong workforce. The ‘nitya kainkaryams’ were performed by the dedicated religious staff in ekantam (in private) without any deviation of the Agamic rules, under the supervision of Tirumala Jeeyangar Swamijis. The institution won accolades for this team effort,” Dr. Reddy observed. He explained how the Sanatana Dharma was promoted through the conduct of ‘Gudiko Gomata’ to donate a cow and calf to select temples in various states, ‘Dharmic’ events at Tirumala and construction of Venkateswara temples across the nation. The parade feat by NCC cadets and equestrian team became the cynosure of all eyes. Merit certificates were distributed to 38 senior officers and 243 employees. Additional Executive Officer A.V. Dharma Reddy, Joint Executive Officers P. Basant Kumar and Sada Bhargavi, Financial Adviser and Chief Accounts Officer O. Balaji, Chief Vigilance and Security Officer Gopinath Jatti, Chief Engineer Ramesh Reddy and others took part.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/426-lakh-pilgrims-had-darshan-through-vaikunta-dwaram/article33671067.ece
27 January 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Indira Maidanam declared open on R-Day||At Municipal Corporation of Tirupati (MCT) office, MLA B. Karunakar Reddy, MLC Y.Srinivasulu Reddy and Commissioner P.S. Gireesha unfurled the flag and declared open ‘Indira Maidanam’ renovated at an outlay of Rs. 2.67 crore from Tirupati Smart City Corporation Limited (TSCCL) funds. Students of MCT-run schools performed march past. Recalling the implementation of ban on plastic use, Mr. Gireesha hoped Tirupati to surpass its previous positions viz., ninth rank in 2017, eighth rank in 2018 and 2019 bagged under ‘Swachh Survekshan’. Superintendent of Police (Tirupati Urban) A. Ramesh Reddy unfurled the flag at the parade grounds and hailed the police personnel for imposing lockdown last year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/indira-maidanam-declared-open-on-r-day/article33671529.ece
27 January 2021||V. RaghavendraVIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||A.P. Maritime Board opposes draft Indian Ports Bill, 2020||The Andhra Pradesh Maritime Board (APMB), which embarked on an ambitious programme of building a string of ports and fishing harbours along its nearly 975-km-long coastline, is strongly opposing the draft Indian Ports Bill, 2020, mainly because it proposes the establishment of a single Maritime Port Regulatory Authority for all minor ports. The board expressed its reservations in writing to the Secretary of Ministry of Ports, Shipping and Waterways recently by highlighting the fact that the legislation sought to usurp the powers of minor ports while sparing the major ports to have their own regulatory authorities under the Major Ports Regulatory Authority Act, 2020. The APMB said minor ports were a subject under the Concurrent list of the Constitution and that by taking away the powers of maritime boards/State governments related to minor ports, the Union government would be depriving the “right of the States to drive their economies”. Land and infrastructure The APMB pointed out that it was the State governments which provided land and created infrastructure for the development of minor ports. It insisted that the draft Indian Ports Bill, 2020 should be referred to the Maritime States’ Development Council (MSDC) to sort out the issues being raised by the States and that if the Centre still intended to proceed to enact the Bill without taking the stakeholders into confidence, at least the existing ports and those under construction should be exempted. Speaking to The Hindu , APMB CEO N.P. Ramakrishna Reddy said that since the minor ports were a matter of Pre-Constitutional Law, the draft Indian Ports Bill, 2020 ought to be settled by the Law Commission of India by taking into consideration the views of all maritime States. He stated that the Bill had not been placed before the MSDC though the proposal to repeal the Indian Ports Act of 1908 was initiated through the draft Indian Ports Bill, 2018 and the present Bill was brought forth. “Since the overall control on ports, including land and the waterfront (up to baseline in inland waters), is in the purview of respective maritime States, the Centre cannot encroach upon the powers of the State governments,” Mr. Reddy asserted, while emphasising on the Centre’s responsibility to look into the observations of the Parliamentary Standing Committee also.  The overall control on ports, including land and waterfront (up to baseline of inland waters), is under the purview of respective States and the Centre cannot encroach upon it. N.P. Ramakrishna Reddy, APMB CEO||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ap-maritime-board-opposes-draft-indian-ports-bill-2020/article33671498.ece
27 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Educational institutions celebrate R-Day with gusto||The 72nd Republic Day was celebrated with patriotic fervour at educational institutions and government undertakings on Tuesday. Housing Minister Cherukuvada Sri Ranganatha Raju and his Women and Child Welfare counterpart Taneti Vanitha participated in the celebrations at the National Institute of Technology (NIT-A.P.) campus at Tadepalligudem. The Ministers, along with NIT Director C.S.P. Rao, unfurled the national flag. Speaking on the occasion, the Ministers said the NIT has been established with good infrastructure, modern labs and other facilities. Later, Prof. Rao, Registrar Dinesh Kumar Reddy, Dean Students Welfare Veeresh Kumar and other staff planted saplings on the campus. Polavaram Project Superintending Engineer M. Nagireddy unfurled the national flag at the project site. MEIL General Manager Angara Satish and other project officials participated in the celebrations. Vijayawada Divisional Railway Manager (DRM) P. Srinivas reviewed the guard of honour presented by the Railway Protection Force (RPF) contingents. The contingents were accompanied by Senior Divisional Security Commissioner Sachin Bhalode. Mr. Srinivas read the message of the South Central Railway (SCR) General Manager on the occasion. He highlighted the achievements of the division in the last one year. Additional DRMs D. Srinivasa Rao and M. Srikanth and heads of different wings participated. Later, the DRM distributed prizes to the forntline workers such as medical, RPF, commercial and other wings of the SCR, Vijayawada division, who rendered their services during the coronavirus pandemic. Vijayawada Police Commissioner B. Srinivasulu unfurled the tricolour at the Police Commissionerate. At Rajiv Gandhi University of Knowledge Technologies (RGUKT), Nuzvid IIIT, institute Director G.V.R. Srinivas participated in the celebration. Speaking on the occasion, he recalled the sacrifices made by the freedom fighters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/educational-institutions-celebrate-r-day-with-gusto/article33671561.ece
27 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||State reports 172 new COVID cases, one death in 24 hours||A day after the State recorded less than 100 new coronavirus cases, the single-day tally went up to 172 in the last 24 hours ending on Tuesday morning. With this, the cumulative infection count increased to 8,88,723. With one death case being reported in Kadapa district, the death toll rose to 7,150. The number of active cases came down to 1,357 as 203 patients recovered in the past day, taking the total recoveries to 8,78,731. The recovery rate remained at 99.04%. The positivity rate of the 38,323 samples tested in the past day was put at 0.45%, while the overall positivity rate of 1.294 crore samples tested was 6.86%. Krishna reported 39 new infections, highest among the districts in the past day. It was followed by Visakhapatnam (34), Guntur (22), East Godavari (21), Kadapa (15), Chittoor (11), Srikakulam (10), Anantapur (7), West Godavari (5), Prakasam (4), Nellore (3), Kurnool (1) and Vizianagaram reported no new cases.  Active cases Krishna district continues to report the highest number of active cases at 245. Along with Krishna, East Godavari (173), Guntur (172), Visakhapatnam (131) and Chittoor (124) altogether have 62% of the total active cases in the State. Vizianagaram reported only 22 active cases. The district tallies are as follows: East Godavari (1,24,206), West Godavari (94,189), Chittoor (86,961), Guntur (75,427), Anantapur (67,621), Nellore (62,294), Prakasam (62,169), Kurnool (60,779), Visakhapatnam (59,684), Kadapa (55,233), Krishna (48,540), Srikakulam (46,112) and Vizianagaram (41,128).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-reports-172-new-covid-cases-one-death-in-24-hours/article33671502.ece
27 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||MPEDA team visits GIFT Tilapia project, tests fish for diseases||Experts from the Rajiv Gandhi Centre for Aquaculture (RGCA), a research unit of the Marine Products Export Development Authority (MPEDA), tested the broodstock and the fish being raised at the Genetically Improved Farmed Tilapia (GIFT) Project, at Manikonda in Krishna district on Tuesday. The team led by RGCA All India Project Director S. Kandan, Aquaculture Genetics and Pathology Laboratory Project Manager Anup Mandal and other experts, under the guidance of MPEDA Chairman K.S. Srinivas, examined the health conditions of the fish, tested for various viruses and diseases. “We tested the broodstock and the fish being raised in the experimental ponds and in the cages at different stages. The GIFT Tilapia, also known as ‘aquatic chicken’, is in good condition at Manikonda Project in Andhra Pradesh which is the only centre in the country,” Dr. Mandal told The Hindu . Nucleus Breeding Centre The MPEDA has been implementing selective breeding programme, and at present more than 50 unique families of ninth generation of GIFT Tilapia are being maintained under the Indian climatic conditions. The project is directly affiliated with WorldFish, Malaysia, and was working as Nucleus Breeding Centre, said Dr. Kandan. Dr. Mandal appreciated Assistant Project Managers Gunashekar, Gnanavelu, Mathews, Srinivas and other technical staff for maintaining the ponds and the hatchery with bio-security and in hygienic conditions. “Experts from the RGCA’s Aquaculture Genetics and Pathology Lab at Sirkali in Tamil Nadu, tested the fish for virus and Tilapia Lake Virus (TiLV). They observed that the stocks are absolutely healthy and free from any kind of diseases. Through Tipalia Project at Manikonda, MPEDA is supplying quality and disease-free broodstock to the farmers for the last 10 years,” Dr. Kandan said. Manikonda project manager B. Appala Naidu explained that 6.3 million of seed has been supplied to the farmers of about six States in the country. This year, RGCA has set a target to supply about 10 million seed to aquaculture farmers across India, he said. Quality inspection “The inspections have also been carried to maintain standards and quality in broodstock. MPEDA-RGCA is giving training to the aquaculture farmers of Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Karnataka, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra on growing and breeding of GIFT Tilapia,” Mr. Appala Naidu said. Earlier in the day, the team of experts visited several ponds and examined the fish for various diseases. They also tested the water samples, oxygen levels and gave the necessary suggestions to the employees pertaining to healthy cultivation practices.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mpeda-team-visits-gift-tilapia-project-tests-fish-for-diseases/article33671506.ece
27 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Use of technology will help farmers to earn more, says ANGRAU V-C||Acharya N.G. Ranga Agricultural University Vice-Chancellor A. Vishnuvardhan Reddy on Tuesday said that adoption of technology would to a large extent maximise agricultural value chain, reduce food insecurity and post-harvest losses, thus helping farmers get higher revenue. Speaking at the 72nd Redpublic Day celebrations at VIT-Andhra Pradesh after unfurling the national flag, Mr. Reddy said research, innovation and entrepreneurship should go hand-in-hand along with education and expressed his desire to work with the VIT in agro-engineering sector for the benefit of the farming community. Besides giving academic excellence awards to the outstanding students in the 2019-20 academic year and prizes to faculty and staff who won in different cultural competitions, the institution honoured 11 unsung heroes from the APSRTC, Police, State Disaster Response Force and Fire Services Department. All of them were given a cash reward of Rs. 25,000 each. D. Hanumantha Rao and B.V. Krishna Rao, both of them drivers in the AP State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC), were felicitated posthumously for their diligence and dedication towards their work. They suffered severe heart attack while driving the vehicle, but not caring for their own lives, ensured that safety of the passengers by parking the vehicle at a safe destination.olice personnel N. Eeswaraiah, K. Ramamohan from Chittoor district, V. Srinivasulu from Kadapa district were recognised for their brave act of saving people in difficult situations putting their own lives at risk. Fire Department personnel Mukku Srinivasa Reddy, Sekhar Amarlapudi, Naresh Kondapalli, Shaik Ghani, Parampogu Kamalakar and Bolla Sanjay Varma were rewarded for their exemplary bravery in two separate fire accidents in Vijayawada.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/use-of-technology-will-help-farmers-to-earn-more-says-angrau-v-c/article33671557.ece
27 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Plea for effective implementation of GO on school fees||Leaders of the Andhra Pradesh Unemployed Youth Joint Action Committee (JAC) on Tuesday urged Chairman of the Andhra Pradesh School Education Regulatory and Monitoring Commission Justice Kanta Rao to ensure effective implementation of GO No. 57 that prohibits private school managements from collecting more than 70% of the tuition fees. The leaders met Justice Kanta Rao and submitted a memorandum to him. Pointing to the fact that taking note of people’s financial problems in view of the outbreak of the coronavirus pandemic that necessitated a prolonged national lockdown affecting livelihoods, student leader and State president of the JAC Samayam Hemath Kumar said most private school managements continued to collect full fee even during the lockdown period. Classes were being conducted online where children sat in their homes and attended them but the school managements demanded full fee, he said urging the panel chief to enforce strict enforcement of the GO. Responding to his plea, Justice Kanta Rao said the panel had taken a serious view of such violations and it was already on the job of identifying schools that flouted norms despite repeated warnings. He said the erring managements would not be spared at any cost.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/plea-for-effective-implementation-of-go-on-school-fees/article33671504.ece
27 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Services of frontline workers hailed||Vijayawada Municipal Corporation Commissioner V. Prasanna Venkatesh hailed the services of frontline workers who sacrificed their lives to protect the society from the COVID-19 pandemic. Speaking at the Republic Day celebrations organised on the premises of VMC office Mr. Venkatesh said that due to the service of frontliners, majority of the population overcame the pandemic and the arrival of the vaccine, which was also a result of hard work by scientists, had ensured safety. He asked the youth to draw inspiration from Dr. B.R.Ambedkar and Dr. A.P.J. Abdul Kalam and become a part of nation-building by serving the society. Mr. Venkatesh presented meritorious certificates to 54 employees, and two park supervisors G. Ramana and Victor Babu were given a cash prize of Rs. 10,000 each for their contribution to development of parks in the city. Additional Commissioner (General) A. Mohan Rao, Additional Commissioner (Projects) U. Sarada Devi, Chief Engineer Prabhakar Rao, Chief Medical Officer of Health Geetha Bai, City Planner K. Lakshman Rao, Estate Officer A. Sridhar and others were present. Sixteen employees of VMC were given meritorious certificates by the District Collector at Police Parade Grounds in Machilipatnam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/services-of-frontline-workers-hailed/article33671558.ece
27 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Indian chilli most preferred the world over, says GVL||Chilli accounts for a major chunk (about Rs. 6,500 crore per annum) of total export of spices in the country. The total export is worth nearly Rs. 21,500 crore. Efforts are under way to increase the export of processed (value-added) chilli, which is only 30% of the total exports, while the remaining is whole dried chilli, according to BJP Rajya Sabha member and National Chilli Taskforce chairman G.V.L. Narasimha Rao. India continues to be the global leader in chilli production and export, and A.P. tops the list of States producing the commercial crop, Mr. Narasimha Rao says. Task force In an interview to The Hindu , Mr. Narasimha Rao said the quality of chilli grown in India was the most preferred the world over, and exports had shown a healthy growth over the last 10 years in terms of both volume and value. The taskforce is now preparing a roadmap for India’s continued domination in the long run and to derive greater value from exports and deliver better returns to the farmers. As on date, Indian chilli exports contribute to more than 50% of the global chilli trade with China being its closest competitor, but it is far behind in the second position. In 2019-20, India exported 4.84 lakh tonnes of chilli. The ‘Byadagi’ chilli grown in Karnataka has a good demand in the world market due to its rich colour and pungency. The ‘Teja’ and ‘Guntur Sannam’ varieties grown in the Guntur - Prakasam - Krishna region make Andhra Pradesh the leader in chilli production in India. Karnataka and Madhya Pradesh are the other major chilli producing States, Mr. Rao states.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/indian-chilli-most-preferred-the-world-over-says-gvl/article33671500.ece
27 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||SEC to review arrangements for polls, vaccination||State Election Commissioner Nimmagadda Ramesh Kumar will review the arrangements for the ensuing gram panchayat elections and the ongoing COVID vaccination process in the State, at an e-conference on Wednesday at his office. The video conference, scheduled at 11 a.m., will be attended by the Chief Secretary, Director-General of Police and Principal Secretaries and Commissioners of the Finance, Medical and Health and Panchayat Raj Departments. In a statement on Tuesday, Chief Secretary Aditya Nath Das asked the District Collectors, Superintendents of Police, Zilla Parishad CEOs and all other top officials from various departments to attend the conference without fail.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sec-to-review-arrangements-for-polls-vaccination/article33671559.ece
27 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Power utilities to get a loan of Rs. 3,300 crore||The Central government would release Rs. 3,300 crore, the second tranche of the ‘Atmanirbhar’ loan, to the power utilities in the State. In the first tranche, the power utilities had got Rs. 3,300.00 crore, Energy Secretary (Energy) N. Srikant has said. Speaking at the 72nd Republic Day celebrations at Vidyut Soudha on Tuesday, Mr. Srikant said the Centre is happy with the power sector interventions made in the State. It also congratulated Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy for his initiative to introduce the direct benefit transfer (DBT) scheme for supply power to agriculture sector free of cost. “The government has laid focus on farmers’ issues and taken steps accordingly. The nine-hours free power supply in the day time will make agriculture as a profitable activity and empower farmers,” he said. Power purchase cost The government has initiated measures to reduce the power purchase costs. The Discoms have saved Rs. 1023.8 crore by procurement from the power exchanges. The aim is to achieve cost effective power which will benefit people and spur economic development, said Mr. Srikant. AP-Transco Joint Managing Directors K. Sreedhar Reddy, K. Venkateswara Rao, Directors K. Praveen kumar, K. Muthu Pandian, AP-Genco Directors G. Chandrasekhara Raju, M.V.V. Satyanarayana, B. Venkatesulu Reddy, Antony Raja, AP-Transco Chief Engineers G. Raja Babu, J. Devanand, B. Laxmi Vara Meera Kumar, M. Venkata Veeraiah, A.K.V. Bhaskar and their AP-Genco counterparts and other officials of power utilities participated in the celebrations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/power-utilities-in-ap-to-get-a-loan-of-rs-3300-crore/article33671419.ece
27 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘YSRCP govt. is undermining Constitution’||Telugu Desam Party (TDP) national president N. Chandrababu Naidu has alleged that the YSRCP government is undermining the Constitution, without realising its harmful consequences. Hoisting the national flag during the Republic Day celebration at the party’s central office at Mangalagiri, Mr. Naidu stressed on the need for creating awareness among the people as to ‘how the government was attacking the four pillars of democracy’. “In this process, the ruling party is blackmailing the officials, employees and other sections of the society with its terror tactics such as foisting false cases and arrests. It is unfortunate that the YSRCP government refuses to change its adamant attitude even after repeated strictures passed by the courts against its decisions. It undermined the State Election Commission and resorting to harassment of opposition party leaders,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysrcp-govt-is-undermining-constitution/article33671503.ece
27 January 2021||vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||SRKR college alumni institute scholarship||A group of former students from SRKR Engineering College, who are now in the US, have instituted GITA (Girls in Technology Advancement) scholarship. College principal M. Jagapathi Raju announced it during Republic Day fete on Tuesday. He said the girls, who had offered to sponsor this scholarship were 1984, 85 and 86 pass-outs from the Civil and ECE branches of engineering. The Rs. 10-lakh scholarship would be given annually to two meritorious girls considering their financial status, he said. College secretary and correspondent Sagi Vithal Rangaraju said it was heartwarming to see the students trying to pay back to their alma mater in a way that would benefit the younger talent. He said the scholarship would be named after Gitaraj, who taught English to students of their batch, some 35 years ago.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/srkr-college-alumni-institute-scholarship/article33671068.ece
27 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Steel plant stepped up exports, says CMD||Industries in Visakhapatnam celebrated the 72nd Republic Day with nationalistic fervour here on Tuesday. At RINL, Visakhapatnam Steel Plant, Chairman and Managing Director P.K. Rath unfurled the national flag and inspected the guard of honour accorded by the CISF personnel. Addressing the employees, he said that the year 2020 had provided learning experiences and the company had benefited enormously emerging stronger to face such challenges in future. He pointed out that when domestic demand for steel diminished, VSP made it up by stepping up on exports by 141% garnering Rs. 3,109 crore during the year up to December, last. He said that a lot of progress was made in operationalising the mines of the Orissa Mineral Development Corporation (OMDC). Mr. Rath also said that the Forged Wheel Plant at Raebareli is in advanced stage of completion and expected to be commissioned by February. Cash transfer scheme At APEDCL corporate office, the national tricolour was unfurled by CMD Nagalakshmi Selvarajan. In a message to the employees, she urged them to rededicate their energy towards development of the organisation. She said that the State government has decided to introduce an YSR Agricultural Electricity Cash Transfer Scheme with the intention of benefiting farmers from 2021-22 financial year. Visakhapatnam Port Trust Chairman K. Rammohan Rao unfurled the national flag and inspected the guard of honour from the CISF personnel on the occasion. He said that last year, VPT achieved a new milestone in cargo transportation. Mr. Rammohan Rao gave away appreciation letters to various employees from various departments for excelling in their duties. Rajesh Tripathi, Managing Director, Dredging Corporation of India, in his Republic Day address said that the employees have done extremely well keeping the dredgers operationally fit, even during the COVID-19 pandemic. He appealed to all the employees to work towards the vision of Atmanirbhar Bharat, for self reliance. Commodore Hemant Khatri, CMD of Hindustan Shipyard, said that the ship building unit will focus more on nation building and will strive to deliver vessels on time with the best of quality and safety standards. He also exhorted all employees, to work towards delivering the first ever Diving Support Vessel, which is under construction, for sea trials, by the 75th Independence Day. NTPC Simhadri, Group General Manager, Diwakar Koushik, unfurled the national flag and inspected a guard of honour given by the CISF.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/steel-plant-stepped-up-exports-says-cmd/article33671564.ece
27 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Collector lists out development activities taken up in district||District Collector V. Vinay Chand unfurled the national flag and took salute at the 72nd Republic Day celebrations at the Police Parade Grounds here on Tuesday. Addressing the gathering, the Collector elaborated on the various development activities and welfare schemes being implemented in the district . He also spoke on the development works initiated by the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) and Visakhapatnam Metropolitan Development Authority (VMRDA). Crops were sown in 1,64,835 hectares under kharif and in 18,289 hectares under rabi in the district during 2020-21, 1,296 seeds were distributed and 13,275 metrict tonnes of fertilizers were distributed during the rabi season through Rythu Bharosa Kendrams in the district. A total of Rs. 25.57 crore was paid to 37,715 farmers as compensation for losses suffered by them during the Cyclone Nivar. Later, the District Collector met freedom fighters, Padma awardees, Arjuna awardees, officials and VIPs, who attended the Republic Day function. Tableaux depicting the progress of various departments like Agriculture, Social Welfare, Medical and Health, Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and ITDA were displayed on the occasion. Children of different schools danced to patriotic numbers and presented skits. Police Commissioner Manish Kumar Sinha, SP B. Krishna Rao, GVMC Commissioner G. Srijana, Additional Commissioner Asha Jyothi, VMRDA Commissioner P. Koteswara Rao, Additional Commissioner Manazeer Jeelani Samoon, Joint Collectors M. Venugopal Reddy, Arun Babu and R. Govinda Rao, Andhra Medical College Principal P.V. Sudhakar and Kutikuppala Surya Rao were among those who attended. Sub Collector N. Mourya unfurled the national tricolour at Narsipatnam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/collector-lists-out-development-activities-taken-up-in-district/article33671567.ece
27 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID: ENC chief commends efforts of medical fraternity||Flag Officer Commanding-in-Chief of Eastern Naval Command Vice Admiral Atul Kumar Jain appreciated the efforts of all personnel of ENC, particularly from the medical fraternity and the healthcare workers, in limiting the impact of COVID-19 amongst the naval community. He was speaking on the occasion of Republic Day here on Tuesday. He also complimented all personnel for maintaining a high tempo of operations by ships, submarines and aircraft squadrons in meeting all challenges on the Eastern Seaboard despite the restrictions imposed by the pandemic. He congratulated all frontline units for successful weapon firings and ensuring ordinance on target at all times. Vice Admiral Jain emphasised the significance of Republic Day and how India became the Sovereign Republic by adopting the Indian Constitution which was drawn from the best practices from across the world by the framers of the Constitution, headed by Dr B.R. Ambedkar. He also highlighted the restrictions on the fundamental rights imposed on armed forces personnel to ensure discipline and efficient discharge of their duties while safeguarding national security. Earlier, after hoisting the national flag, he witnessed a ceremonial parade at the Parade Ground of INS Circars and later inspected a 50-men armed guard and reviewed 12 platoons comprising naval personnel drawn from all ships, submarines, establishments, and Defence Security Corps. Vice Admiral Biswajit Dasgupta, Chief of Staff, ENC, was the Conducting Officer of the Parade, and Commander Ravi Kiran was the Parade Commander. The parade was attended by all Flag Officers, Commanding Officers of various ships, submarines, and establishments at the ENC. The parade concluded with the singing of the National Anthem by all present. As part of the Republic Day celebrations, all naval ships at Visakhapatnam were also ‘dressed overall’ with various signal flags displayed from their main mast to the front and rear flag poles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/covid-enc-chief-commends-efforts-of-medical-fraternity/article33671575.ece
27 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Girl does A.P. proud by winning national award||Kalagarla Sahiti (16) of Visakhapatnam has done Andhra Pradesh proud by bagging the ‘Uttam Jeevan Raksha Padak’. The award, which is usually given on the Republic Day in Delhi, was conferred on her by President Ram Nath Kovind through virtual mode in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. The award is given for an exemplary act in saving someone’s life. Hailing from Kothakota village of Ravikamatham mandal, Sahiti is studying Intermediate first year at Sri Viswa Junior College at Madhurawada in the city. She was barely 14, when she put her life at risk to save two children from drowning. A group of children were taken to the Revu Polavaram beach of S. Rayavaram mandal in the district, by their parents for a picnic on November 4, 2018. Sahiti had also gone to the beach along with her parents. A few children broke away from the group and went into the water for a dip and two of them – Tirumalesu (6) and Bhargavi (8) – started drifting into the deep. Rescue act “Their parents started shouting for help as none of them knew swimming. I jumped into the water without a second thought. I carried Tirumalesu on my shoulder, while pulling Bhargavi with one hand and using the other hand and feet to swim ashore,” says Sahiti, vividly recalling the incident to The Hindu on Tuesday. “Sahiti learnt swimming when she was 8, at a swimming pool in Anakapalle. She also learnt to perform yogasanas while staying afloat on water. She has 32 medals, world records and prizes. She is also good at academics and scored over 95% in the ninth class but in the 10th class marks were not given in view of COVID-19,” says her mother Nagajyothi, the headmistress of the Mandal Parishad School in Ravikamatham. “I remained afloat on water for five hours carrying three flags, one with my mouth and one each with my hands during the Sankranti holidays recently. I wanted to perform the feat on the Republic Day but as I am staying in the college hostel, it was not allowed there in view of the pandemic threat.” she says. Her ambition is to join the IIT.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/girl-does-ap-proud-by-winning-national-award/article33671510.ece
27 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Waltair Division achieved good progress: DRM||Divisional Railway Manager Chetan Kumar Shrivastava has said that Waltair Division has overcome the odds posed by the pandemic and achieved good performance in the last quarter of 2020-21 fiscal. It excelled in various fields like safety, security, infrastructure development and implementation of innovative measures. He unfurled the national tricolour and took the ‘Rashtriya Salami’ presented by the contingents of Railway Protection Force (RPF), cadets of Bharat Scouts and Guides and Civil Defence at the Railway Football grounds here on the occasion of Republic Day. Addressing the gathering, Mr. Shrivastava commended the relentless efforts of the staff in ensuring uninterrupted supply of essential commodities throughout the country during the COVID-19 pandemic. The Division loaded 4194 million tonnes of freight by December 2020 and the gross earnings were Rs. 5,035.75 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/waltair-division-achieved-good-progress-drm/article33671565.ece
27 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||GVMC sets up 10 plastic bottle crushing machines||With a motto to combat plastic menace and recycle it, Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) has set up 10 plastic bottle crushing machines at various places. GVMC Commissioner G. Srijana inaugurated a machine at the City Central Park here on Tuesday. Ms. Srijana said that three of the 10 plastic bottle crushing machines will be arranged at GVMC office, City Central Park and Beach Road. She instructed Chief Engineer M Venkateswar Rao to arrange the remaining seven machines at various other public places. She said that each crushing machine costs about Rs. 10 lakh. Stressing the need for recycle and reuse of plastic, she said that all it needs for people is just to drop the waste/used plastic in the machine. She also explained the measures being taken by the civic body to combat plastic. The GVMC Commissioner also flagged off an advanced machine to clean manholes in the city. She said that the machine that cost about Rs. 30 lakh was developed by Maniar company. The machine would be attached to a van vehicle and it can clean manholes in small colonies. It can perform jetting, desiltation and other cleaning operations. The Ahmedabad-based company was given the task to carry out the operations for a period of five years, she said. Additional Commissioner V. Sanyasi Rao, Chief Engineer M. Venkateswara Rao, Superintending Engineer Venugopal, Samson Raju and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gvmc-sets-up-10-plastic-bottle-crushing-machines/article33671572.ece
27 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Services of freedom fighters recalled||Officials from Andhra University celebrated 72nd Republic Day at AU grounds here on Tuesday. Vice- Chancellor P.V.G.D. Prasad Reddy unfurled the national flag along with officials and paid floral tributes at the statues of Mahatma Gandhi and Dr. B.R. Ambedkar. Speaking on the occasion, Prof. Prasad Reddy recalled the struggle of freedom fighters for Independence and efforts of Dr. B.R Ambedkar for playing a key role in drafting the Constitution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/services-of-freedom-fighters-recalled/article33671570.ece
27 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||MGCHRI celebrates 15th anniversary||Mahatma Gandhi Cancer Hospital and Research Institute (MGCHRI) has completed 15 years of service to the people of the region. In a statement , Murali Krishna Voonna, MD of the hospital, noted that MGCHRI has Robotic Surgery system for advancing minimally invasive cancer surgery.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mgchri-celebrates-15th-anniversary/article33671569.ece
27 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Andhra University invites applications for admissions||Andhra University is inviting applications for admission into various M.A./ M.Com./M.Sc., courses with special fee structure category seats. Director, Directorate of Admissions, D.A. Naidu, said that the application form, admission information brochure, registration fee, eligibility criteria, and fee structure for the above courses are given in A.U website: www.audoa.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/andhra-university-invites-applications-for-admissions/article33671571.ece
27 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Spend at least an hour in physical training, students told||Vignan Institute of Information Technology, Duvvada organised the 72nd Republic Day celebrations in their campus here on Tuesday. Former Joint Director, CBI, V.V. Lakshminarayana, who attended the programme as chief guest, unfurled the national flag. He asked them to spend at least one hour in physical training and also read books of varied subjects.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/spend-at-least-an-hour-in-physical-training-students-told/article33671573.ece
27 January 2021||VIZIANAGARAM/SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Left parties take out rallies against farm laws||The Left parties including the CPI, the CPI(M), the CPI(ML-New Democracy) and others on Tuesday organised tractor rallies in Vizianagaram and Srikakulam to extend their support to the agitating farmers in New Delhi. CPI(M) leaders Bhaviri Krishnamurthy, D.Govinda Rao, CPI leaders Chapara Sundarlal, Sanapala Narasimhulu and others participated in the rally that began at Voppangi village and culminated Srikakulam. In Vizianagaram, CPI assistant secretary Bugata Ashok, Left party leaders Reddy Sankara Rao, P.V. Ramana raised slogans against the Union government. They alleged that the three farm laws were brought to benefit the corporate sector under the guise of benefiting farmers. They said that the agitations would continue till the laws were repealed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/left-parties-take-out-rallies-against-farm-laws/article33671525.ece
27 January 2021||VIZIANAGARAM/SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Priority for farm sector: Collector||Vizianagaram District Collector M. Hari Jawaharlal has said the State government is initiating several measures for all-round development of the district. Speaking after hoisting the national flag to mark the 72nd Republic Day at Parade Grounds here on Tuesday, the Collector said: “Farm sector is being accorded top priority and adequate funds are being allocated for speedy completion of irrigation projects.” Similarly, natural farming was being encouraged to minimise the expenditure on fertilisers and pesticides to ensure healthy food for the people. “Apart from agriculture, the district administration is focusing on dairy development since it ensures additional income to farmers. We request farmers to utilise the schemes to establish dairy units in their villages,” said Dr. Hari Jawaharlal. He urged people to follow COVID-19 protocol till the completion of vaccination process which was started on January 16 in Vizianagaram district. Earlier, students presented a variety of cultural events.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/priority-for-farm-sector-collector/article33671066.ece
27 January 2021||January 27 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Mountain of work||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mountain-of-work/article33671563.ece
27 January 2021||January 27 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Back on field||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/back-on-field/article33671512.ece
27 January 2021||January 27 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Low-key celebrations at Bharat Mata statue||The 72nd Republic Day was celebrated on a low key at the statue of Bharat Mata at KRM Colony, Seethammadhara, here on Tuesday. The celebrations are usually held in a grand manner for the last 15 years. Apart from patriotic fervour, the people of the neighbouring colonies gather in large numbers and participate in the festive celebrations. “The authorities have declined permission for the fair, this year, in view of the COVID-19 pandemic,” Kandarpa Viswanath, president of the Bharatamba Utsav Samithi, said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/low-key-celebrations-at-bharat-mata-statue/article33671568.ece
27 January 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||BRF||Collector M.V. Reddy said that almost 95% of work on the Rs. 13,058 crore Sitarama Lift Irrigation project aimed at optimally utilising the surplus waters of the Godavari has been completed. The process of setting up as many as six motors of the pump house at BG Kothur in Aswapuram mandal was complete and the stage set for their dry run soon, he added. Speaking at the main Republic Day function after unfurling the tricolour in Kothagudem on Tuesday, Mr. Reddy said that the foundation stone for the Rs. 2,712 crore Sitamma Sagar multi-purpose project would be laid soon. It envisages construction of a barrage at Ammagaripalli village in Aswapuram mandal with a storage capacity of 36.57 tmcft and a hydel power unit of 320 MW capacity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/brf/article33671411.ece
27 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Celebrating the spirit of India||The 72nd Republic Day was celebrated with enthusiasm and patriotic fervour by following COVID-19 norms in legislative bodies, government offices and institutions as also by political parties across the State on Tuesday. In the Legislative Assembly, Speaker Pocharam Srinivas Reddy hoisted the national flag. Speaking on the occasion, he thanked the scientific community for finding vaccine against COVID-19 and it was a moment of pride for the people of Telangana as one of the vaccines was developed and is being made in Hyderabad. Chairman of Legislative Council G. Sukender Reddy, Deputy Chairman N. Vidyasagar, Legislative Affairs Minister V. Prashanth Reddy, Council Chief Whip B. Venkateshwarlu, Legislature Secretary V. Narasimha Acharyulu and several legislators participated. In the Council building, Mr. Sukender Reddy unfurled the tricolour. At Pragathi Bhavan, Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao hoisted the national flag. In the High Court complex, Chief Justice Justice Hima Kohli unfurled the national flag and at Secretariat (BRKR Bhavan), Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar did the honours. Speaking after hoisting the national flag at Vidyut Soudha, chairman and managing director of TS-Genco and TS-Transco D. Prabhakar Rao attributed the transformation of the power sector in the State to team work of all utilities and support of the government. The power utilities had spent nearly Rs. 29,900 crore on strengthening the transmission and distribution network in the past six years and Telangana was topping the country with per capita energy consumption of 2,071 units. At Singareni Bhavan, CMD of Singareni Collieries Company Ltd. hoisted the national flag and said the company was planning to commence coal production in the Naini block in Odisha during 2021 itself and was planning to erect a 300 megawatt floating solar plant in Lower Manair Dam. At Prof. Jayashankar Telangana State Agricultural University, Vice Chancellor V. Praveen Rao, during the Republic Day celebrations, said that the university would take up the process to fill 102 vacant junior assistant cum typist posts through public service commission soon. In-charge Vice-Chancellor of Osmania University and Principal Secretary (MA&UD) Arvind Kumar hoisted the tricolour at the historic Arts College building. He also unfurled the flag at Samachar (I&PR) Bhavan and MA&UD offices. Republic Day was also celebrated at Institution of Lok Ayukta, Mahatma Gandhi National Council of Rural Education, Aranya Bhavan, Parishrama Bhavan, Bus Bhavan, Administrative Staff College of India, Rythu Bandhu Samithi office, University of Hyderabad, offices of Nuclear Fuel Complex, BHEL R.C. Puram, Power Grid, NTPC, SBI Hyderabad Circle and the offices of all the political parties. Meanwhile, on the occasion of Republic Day, a wreath laying ceremony was organised at Veerula Sainik Smarak, Army Parade Ground Secunderabad as a mark of respect and to pay homage to the valiant soldiers who laid their lives to uphold the honour and pride of our country. Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao also laid a wreath and paid homage to the martyrs. Normalcy returning The Rajiv Gandhi International Airport is gradually returning to normalcy with the worst impact of COVID-19 having passed, observed CEO Pradeep Panicker after hoisting the national flag on the occasion of Republic Day on Tuesday. The CEO was confident that the passenger numbers would soon reach pre-COVID times. Availability of COVID vaccine is sure to further increase air traffic, he said. Hyderabad Air Cargo has expanded its capabilities to handle the expected spurt in COVID vaccine transport for both import and export. SCR infra works South Central Railway (SCR) has commissioned 44 km of new railway line, 44 km of gauge conversion works, 127 km of doubling and 22 km of tripling works during this financial year despite the raging pandemic, said General Manager Gajanan Mallya after hoisting the tricolour. He received the guard of honour presented by the Railway Protection Force and witnessed various cultural events on the occasion of Republic Day celebrations at the Railway Sports Complex Grounds in Secunderabad. CJ’s address Observing that Telangana High Court took COVID lockdown as an opportunity to adapt to new technology, Chief Justice Hima Kohli called upon all to re-dedicate to Constitution of India. Addressing a gathering after unfurling the national flag, she commended the collaborative effort of the bar and bench in dispensation of justice during the pandemic. “Things are looking up now… infection is abating… nationwide inoculation will help to contain infection soon…but it will take some time to limp back to normalcy,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/celebrating-the-spirit-of-india/article33671382.ece
27 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Pay revision for employees may be announced soon||The high power committee headed by Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar is likely to invite the representatives of employees’ unions for talks on the recommendations submitted by the Pay Revision Commission (PRC) on Wednesday or Thursday. The development signals an end to the suspense over the implementation of the recommendations of the Pay Revision Commission chaired by retired bureaucrat C.R. Biswal that submitted its report to the government on December 31. Immediately after the report was submitted, Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao announced the constitution of the three-member high power committee headed by the Chief Secretary, comprising Principal Secretaries of Finance and Irrigation as its members, to look into employees’ related issues. Though the Chief Minister directed the panel to complete discussions with the employees by the end of first week, the process could not be initiated as the members of the committee were busy with other engagements related to promotions and compassionate appointments. The committee finally met on Monday and held deliberations on the report. Following the instructions from the Chief Minister again on Sunday, the committee members, who met on Monday, were said to have discussed the recommendations made by the PRC. “The report has been opened and all aspects of the recommendations were discussed and deliberated upon during the meeting,” a senior official said. Officials were, however, not forthcoming about the quantum of the fitment hike recommended by the PRC, but sources said there were indications that it could be around 30%. The employees need to be explained what the recommendations were about after which the matter would be taken to the notice of the Chief Minister in the time slot approved, the official told The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/pay-revision-for-employees-may-be-announced-soon/article33671402.ece
27 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Hussainsagar: a saga of shrinkage, exploitation, destruction||Unbearable stench emanating from the slimy and polluted water, and a crane sifting the suit-like grime from the lake and depositing it on the verdancy of an island greet any visitor to the Hussainsagar near its Ganesh immersion pond, when he or she stands on the tonnes of rubble heaped on the lake’s banks. A little further away, ugly iron pipes firmly installed in concrete foundations run the length and breadth of the ‘eco-conservation zone’ developed years ago by the lake, apparently for some walk-way in and out of the lake. The lake from Qutubshahi era speaks its sad tale of shrinkage, exploitation and destruction more eloquently now, notwithstanding tall claims by HMDA authorities about its “development and beautification”. While the urban development authority boasts of newly-laid CC road and footpaths, large mounds of debris from demolition of the previous road and footpath lay heaped right by the lake close to the Ganesh immersion pond, encroaching into the water body’s full tank level. More than three months after re-laying the road, the debris is still to be removed. The ‘eco-conservation zone’ was demarcated in about five to seven acres on the lake’s banks close to the Jalavihar park, much before the Telangana State was formed. According to officials who were responsible for creating the zone then, the idea was to earmark an inviolate area for biodiversity to flourish, in order to mediate the lake’s cleansing process through natural course. The area where it was created had been cleared from private hands through legal means, and there were attempts to encroach the land later too, thwarting which was one more aim behind establishment of the eco-conservation zone.. The area was planted with trees and grasses, which would absorb nitrates and sulphates, to make the soil relatively pollutant-free. A study paper published by the World Wide Fund for Nature (then World Wildlife Fund) identified a total 115 species of flora, 48 species of butterflies, and five species of dragonflies, 67 species of birds, and several kinds of plankton, amphibians, reptiles, and mammals from the lake and surrounding areas. In fact, the paper noted that a rare species named Euphorbia sebastinei survived in the eco-conservation zone. The whole area is now devoid of grass. Several trees were uprooted for laying of foundation for the purported iron walk way, as apparent from remnants of roots. Several others will eventually die, as more foundation pits were dug cutting into their root area. A few freshly cut trees can be seen lying around. When sought his version, Principal Secretary, Municipal Administration & Urban Development and acting HMDA Commissioner Arvind Kumar, said a “cultural-entertainment project” is underway at the location. The project was permitted with the condition that no permanent construction will be allowed, he informed, and said a team of engineers will assess the situation now. Of the debris, he said he had instructed officials concerned to ensure its removal within the coming 15 days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hussainsagar-a-saga-of-shrinkage-exploitation-destruction/article33671393.ece
27 January 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Congress MPs to raise issue of ‘corruption’ in Parliament||Telangana Congress MPs would raise the issue of ‘corruption’ and ‘financial irregularities’ committed by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao in the next Parliament session and seek a CBI probe. On Tuesday, Congress MPs N. Uttam Kumar Reddy, Komatireddy Venkata Reddy and A. Revanth Reddy had an interaction with senior Congress leaders, including CLP leader Mallu Bhatti Vikramarka and MLAs, on the issues to be raised in the forthcoming session of Parliament beginning January 29. Later, addressing a press conference, Mr. Uttam Kumar Reddy said that Congress MPs would raise the issue of ‘corruption by CM KCR’ in the name of various projects in Telangana State. He alleged that the TRS regime had indulged in unprecedented corruption which was never witnessed anywhere in the past in independent India. The party would demand CBI inquiry into Mission Bhagiratha, Kaleshwaram and Sitarama projects. Mr. Reddy also said that Telangana BJP president Bandi Sanjay accused Mr. KCR of indulging in corruption, but no BJP leader lodged a complaint with the government at the Centre seeking a probe. He asked the BJP leaders to specify as to when they lodged a complaint against Mr. KCR’s corruption. The TPCC chief also suspected the role of bankers in the corruption in irrigation projects. “How could banks lend huge money for the projects without submission of Detailed Project Reports?” he asked and said that the Congress would seek a detailed probe through CBI and other investigation agencies into these irregularities. ‘Proof of corruption’ Mr. Venkata Reddy said that the Congress MPs would provide evidence of corruption against KCR in Parliament. Further, he said that the evidence would also be given to CBI, along with Home Minister Amit Shah. He alleged that the assets of the Kalvakuntla family had increased manifold since 2014 and they accumulated huge wealth through corruption and commissions. Metro extension Sanga Reddy MLA T. Jayaprakash Reddy urged party MPs to highlight the role of a major infrastructure and engineering company in the ‘corruption’ related to the irrigation projects in Telangana and seek a CBI inquiry. He said if the Congress has to come back to power in Telangana, it was necessary that people who aided in corrupt practices of the TRS government should be exposed. The MLA also said that the extension of Metro Rail to Sangareddy from Miyapur should be raised in Parliament. Thousands of people travel between Sangareddy and Hyderabad and extension of Metro Rail was a necessity. Other issues that came up for discussion to be raised in Parliament included a bullet train from Hyderabad to Vijayawada, Railway Coach Factory at Qazipet, Tribal University and a Steel Plant at Bayyaram, full functioning of the upgraded AIIMS at Bibinagar, injustice done to OBCs in recruitments on faculty posts in English and Foreign Languages University (EFLU) and declaring Samakka Sarakka Jatara as a national festival.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cong-to-talk-ts-corruption-in-parliament/article33671409.ece
27 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Param Vishist Seva Medal recipient from Secunderabad||Lieutenant General Y.V.K. Mohan, who has been conferred the Param Vishisht Seva Medal, is an alumnus of Korukonda Sainik School, Andhra Pradesh and National Defence Academy, Khadakwasla, Pune, and was commissioned into 7th Battalion of 11th Gorkha Rifles on December 19, 1981. He served in varied terrains like in Siachin Glacier in Jammu and Kashmir, Indo-China border at Sikkim, Indo-Pak western borders and as an assistant chief of integrated defence staff (joint operations) at HQ Integrated Defence Staff, New Delhi. He has the unique distinction of being Commandant of both National Defence College, New Delhi, and Defence Services Staff College, Wellington, Tamil Nadu. He now lives in Yapral after putting 39 years of dedicated service to the nation.  He has been previously conferred with Ati Vishisht Seva Medal, Sena Medal and Vishisht Seva Medal by the President for his dedicated and commendable service at Siachen Glaicer (Northern Glacier), a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/param-vishist-seva-medal-recipient-from-secunderabad/article33671384.ece
27 January 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Tank Bund gets a makeover||The spanking wide and smooth promenade with bowl shaped hanging lamps looks like a movie set recreating a bygone era. But it is the NH44 connecting Hyderabad to Secunderabad which the citizens call Tank Bund. The transformation of the Tank Bund road stretch is dramatic enough that it has become a topic of discussion and many citizens are stopping by to admire and click photographs. But the biggest test for the transformation will be on September 19, 2021 Anant Chaturdasi when more than a hundred thousand Ganesh idols will be brought to the Hussainsagar Lake for immersion. “The government has to facilitate the immersion of Ganesh idols in the lake. They will have to look at the arrangements for a smooth programme,” said Dr. Bhagwant Rao of Bhagyanagar Ganesh Utsav Samiti, the umbrella body that coordinates the Ganesh immersion in the city. “There is no question of any other location or site,” said Dr. Rao when asked about how the immersions will unfold this year. Every year, Ganesh idols ranging from one of the tallest installed in Khairatabad to thousands of idols ranging between 5 to 30-feet are brought and immersed in the lake over a two-day period in two locations: NTR Marg and Tank Bund. “Earlier, the idols were immersed in different lakes and wells in the old city. In 1980 we formed the Bhagyanagar Ganesh Utsav Samithi and created a unified immersion event,” said Dr. Rao. Hyderabad Metropolitan Development Authority has factored in the annual Ganesh immersion function and is using 150-mm stones on the stretch where the cranes are deployed. “That stretch of road has a more robust flooring which will allow heavy duty vehicles like cranes to move on them without cracking,” said one of the supervisors executing the work at the site. “The lamps take away attention from the lake. Tactile flooring which is the norm in any pedestrian infrastructure is missing. It has a harsh edge to it. Why weren’t citizens consulted in creating such a facility,” said Shankar Narayan an architect. It remains to be seen how this showpiece street infrastructure survives one of Hyderabad’s iconic community festival this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tank-bund-gets-a-makeover/article33671395.ece
27 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Governor: process for raising pay, retirement age in progress||The State government has asserted that the process for increasing the salaries of the staff and age of retirement is in progress. The process for filling vacancies on compassionate grounds is also going on, Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan said. The Governor, during her speech after unfurling the national flag on the 72nd Republic Day on Tuesday, said that the government gave top priority to the welfare of all sections of government employees since the formation of Telangana. In the initial stages of the State formation, 42% fitment was given to government employees. Salaries of the employees who were working with meagre wages such as outsourcing, contract and other workers, had been increased and the government was committed to increase salaries to benefit every employee and pensioner. “The State government has decided to enhance the age of superannuation. The process of giving promotions is also on fast pace. Once the promotions are given, the resultant vacancies will be filled up immediately,” Dr. Soundararajan said on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/governor-process-for-raising-pay-retirement-age-in-progress/article33671404.ece
27 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||189 new COVID cases in TS||Continuing the trend of steady fall in the spread of COVID-19 in Telangana, a total of 189 positive cases and two deaths were reported during the 24-hour period till 8 p.m. on Monday, taking the total number of positive cases to 2,93,590 and number of fatalities to 1,592. Three districts — GHMC (Hyderabad), Rangareddy and Medchal-Malkajgiri — reported cases in double digits while three other districts reported ‘zero’ cases on Monday. According to the bulletin issued by Director of Public Health G. Srinivas Rao on the status of COVID-19 cases in the State, 349 COVID-positive persons were declared recovered on Monday, taking the number of total recoveries to 2,88,926 and the recovery rate went up to 98.41% against 1.4% at the national level. The number of active cases was 3,072 by 8 p.m. on Monday with 1,543 in home and institutional isolation and the remaining 1,529 undergoing treatment in various government and private hospitals. It was also stated in the bulletin that a total of 29,449 screening tests were conducted on Monday to detect COVID-positive cases, taking total tests to 77,11,810. Reports of 204 samples were awaited. Among the 1,592 COVID-19 deaths reported in the State till Monday, 44.96% were purely due to COVID symptoms and the remaining 55.04% deaths were due to co-morbidities coupled with COVID symptoms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/189-new-covid-cases-in-ts/article33671414.ece
27 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Sarpanches authorised to permit wild boar culling||Telangana government has, on Tuesday, paved way for widespread culling of wild boar by designating village sarpanches as honorary wildlife wardens for the purpose of issuing permissions. Citing a proposal by the Principal Chief Conservator of Forests, the government has also authorised the Chief Wildlife Warden to delegate his/her powers to them, for the purpose of issuing permission for culling of wild pigs damaging agriculture/horticulture crops outside the protected areas and reserve forests. The orders have been issued under the Section 11(b) and Section 4(3) of the Wild Life (Protection) Act, 1972, in response to widespread disgruntlement among farmers about marauding wild boars. Wire snares deployed by farmers to trap the boars, frequently end up killing tigers and other wild animals. Though there is an approved panel of shooters for the wild boar culling, permission hitherto had to be obtained from the District Forest Officer. The powers delegated to the village sarpanches will be in force for a year only, the orders stipulated, among several other conditions. Written complaint from the farmers is a must for the sarpanch to take action. He or she should visit the location for investigation along with village elders and farmers to assess the situation and draw a Panchanama. In the Panchanama, he or she may recommend hunting of the wild pigs, to be followed by permission. For the purpose of hunting, the sarpanch may seek the services of empanelled shooters, or enlist any other hunter available at the village or mandal or district level with a valid firearms license, and a rifle powerful enough to kill a wild pig, the orders said. A copy of the permission given by the sarpanch specifying the numbers should be provided to the Forest Beat Officer, Forest Section Officer or Forest Range Officer concerned, who in turn should forward the same to the Chief Wildlife Warden. Care should be exercised by the shooters to ensure that marauding animals alone are hunted, and none from the protected areas, reserve forest areas or government lands. The carcasses of the hunted wild pigs should be buried underground in the presence of forest staff, and no part thereof should be consumed, possessed or displayed as trophy, the orders said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/sarpanches-authorised-to-permit-wild-boar-culling/article33671418.ece
27 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Architect killed in road accident||An architect was killed and his wife injured on Tuesday in a road accident along the Outer Ring Road, police said. According to Abdullapurmet police, the victim Sharat Kumar (26) was driving from Kokapet area towards Boduppal around 12.30 a.m. on Tuesday when he crashed into a lorry which was moving in the same direction, around 100 metres from the Taramatipet exit on the ORR. “The couple were returning from a function. We are not sure what caused the accident. The victim was moved to Apollo DRDO in Kanchanbagh where he passed away,” police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/architect-killed-in-road-accident/article33671396.ece
27 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||High Court: State govt. lax in filing counter affidavits||Telangana High Court Chief Justice Hima Kohli expressed disappointment over State government departments concerned not filing counter affidavits on time in different petitions. While hearing various pleas two days ago, the CJ remarked that in several matters, government was lax in filing counter affidavits. She was heading a division bench comprising Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy. Hearing a writ petition relating to acquisition of houses in Vemulaghat village of Medak district, the CJ told the government counsel that the department concerned should pull up its socks. “We will start imposing costs …. and the defaulting officers have to pay from their pockets,” the CJ said. In another matter, the CJ sought to know from the counsel why the latter failed to file a counter affidavit to an order issued more than six months ago. In a writ petition questioning alleged inaction of authorities over a representation relating to illegal mining in Raichur village of Ranga Reddy district, she sought to know why the government departments failed to respond for months together. She said that the delayed response of officials suggested they were hand-in-glove with those accused of illegal mining. The CJ made it clear that inordinate delay in filing counter affidavits would not be entertained in future. The departments cannot be callous, she noted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/high-court-state-govt-lax-in-filing-counter-affidavits/article33671400.ece
27 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘CCMB has set new standards for science and technology’||CSIR-Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB)’s multifaceted research activities, especially during COVID-19, has set newer standards for science and technology in the country, said Rachakonda police commissioner Mahesh Muralidhar Bhagwat on Tuesday. Participating as the chief guest for the Repulic Day celebrations, Mr. Bhagwat hailed the CCMB’s contributions and dwelled on the importance of wildlife forensics and DNA fingerprinting. CCMB’s contributions in solving paternity disputes and criminal cases via DNA fingerprinting technology has helped the police as well. He congratulated AIC-CCMB’s newer ventures of supporting life science entrepreneurs through the recently awarded NIDHI-SSS grants. CCMB Director Rakesh Mishra addressed the gathering on the different challenges faced during the pandemic and explained how the institute has come out with innovative ways of handling research activities while formulating various cheap and robust methods of testing COVID samples.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ccmb-has-set-new-standards-for-science-and-technology/article33671386.ece
27 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||SRiX receives Rs. 5.25 crore NIDHI-SSS seed grant||SR Innovation Exchange (SriX), a technology business incubator of SR University, Warangal, has received a Rs. 5.25 crore NIDHI-SSS seed grant from the Centre’s Department of Science and Technology to nurture early-stage startups. “It is to act as a bridge between the development stage of the startup and commercialisation,” CEO Sreedevi Devireddy said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/srix-receives-rs-525-crore-nidhi-sss-seed-grant/article33671415.ece
27 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Honour for MCEME Commandant||Commandant Military College of EME and Colonel Commandant of Corps of Electronic and Mechanical Engineers (EME) Lieutenant General TSA Narayanan has been awarded Ati Vishisht Seva Medal. The honour was bestowed on him for distinguished service of an exceptional order displayed towards execution in his duties for the Indian Army, especially the Corps of EME, on the occasion of the 72nd Republic Day on Tuesday. This year has been a landmark one for MCEME under his stewardship, having achieved national accolades and fame, a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/honour-for-mceme-commandant/article33671387.ece
27 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||History-sheeter stabbed to death||History-sheeter Kala Feroz was stabbed to death in Shivaji Nagar area under the Sanathnagar police station limits. According to Sanathnagar police, the murder took place around 12.40 a.m. on Tuesday. Around five or six people intercepted the car in which Kala Feroz was moving. Previous enmity is suspected to be the motive. CCTV camera footage is being gathered and analysed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/history-sheeter-stabbed-to-death/article33671398.ece
27 January 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||BJP, TRS, MIM on secret pact to damage Cong.: Uttam||Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee president N. Uttam Kumar Reddy alleged that the BJP government was hurting the spirit of the Constitution while the TRS government in Telangana has killed democracy with no respect for Constitutional values. The TPCC chief said that the Modi government was trying to rule the country by inciting communal hatred while KCR was using his ill-gotten money to win elections and subvert people’s aspirations. He alleged that the BJP, TRS and MIM have entered into a secret pact to damage the Congress party in Telangana. He was speaking after hoisting the national flag at Gandhi Bhavan on the 72nd Republic Day on Tuesday. Mr. Uttam Kumar Reddy appealed to intellectuals, academicians and all those who support democracy to take note of the way elections were being conducted in Telangana. He said strengthening of the Congress was highly essential for restoration of democracy, not only in Telangana, but the entire country. The Congress leaders welcomed the decision to award Mahavir Chakra to Col. Santosh Babu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bjp-trs-mim-in-secret-pact/article33671407.ece
27 January 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||HPS parents meet KTR on fee reduction||The Active Parents Forum of Hyderabad Public Schools (HPS) in Begumpet and Ramanthapur met Municipal Administration Minister K.T. Rama Rao and urged him to impress upon the HPS Board of Management not to press for full fee for this academic year given the pandemic situation. Forum representatives Ashok Kumar and Anand Reddy explained to the Minister that the management was flouting the government directions on the collection of fee and sought his intervention in fee reduction. They said parents are demanding 40% reduction in the existing fee since there were no classes, no mess facility and any other activity that is usually included in the fee structure. They also handed over a memorandum to the Minister, which they had earlier submitted to Special Chief Secretary Chitra Ramachandran, explaining how the parents were being literally threatened and children ‘insulted’ for not paying the fee. The memorandum said that the HPS Society has a corpus fund of more than Rs. 27 crore while Begumpet school has collected a fee of Rs. 51 crore and Ramanthapur school Rs. 26 crore. The schools have also saved crore of rupees on maintenance and other academic and administrative related aspects and the parents have requested them several times fee reduction keeping in view of loss income for them due to the pandemic. However, the school management has been ignoring their appeals and was avoiding their collective appeal. The parents said they will be forced to knock the doors of appropriate authority, forum, tribunal or court for justice.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hps-parents-meet-ktr-on-fees/article33671416.ece
27 January 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||State Page - Brief with pic||Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan on Tuesday hosted a virtual ‘At Home’ for the inmates of the Bala Sadans across the State. As the regular ‘At Home’ could not be conducted as part of COVID preventive measures at the Raj Bhavan on the occasion of Republic Day, the Governor interacted with the inmates of Bala Sadans in a virtual mode and motivated them to work diligently to realise their dreams. “This is the happiest and memorable Republic Day for me as I interacted with the inmates of Bala Sadans. They have great confidence, communication skills and the dreams to realise and goals to achieve to serve the underprivileged in future,” she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/state-page-brief-with-pic/article33671413.ece
27 January 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Bike rally in support of Kisan Parade||Expressing their solidarity with the Kisan Parade by farmers in New Delhi denouncing the new farm laws, the local cadre of the Left parties, the Congress and several farmers’ organisations took out a bike rally here on Tuesday. Addressing a meeting held in this connection at the Pavilion grounds here, the leaders of the Rythu Sanghams condemned the alleged caning of farmers by the police during the Kisan Parade in Delhi. They demanded that the Centre scrap the three farm laws in toto without any further delay.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bike-rally-in-support-of-kisan-parade/article33671538.ece
27 January 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||‘969 villages in Khammam provided potable water’||As many as 969 villages in the district were provided potable drinking water at an estimated cost of Rs. 338.62 crore under the Mission Bhagiratha in the district, said Collector R V Karnan. Around 2,73,255 tap connections were allotted under the mega drinking water scheme to provide piped water supply to every household, he said in his Republic Day speech after hoisting the national flag here on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/969-villages-in-khammam-provided-potable-water/article33671536.ece
27 January 2021||January 27 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Sculptors take centre stage at Yadadri||When Sri Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy temple at Yadagirigutta — renamed as Yadadri — opens shortly after the renovation, the devotees will be treated to a spiritual and aesthetic grandeur. The temple on the hillock, in an area of four acres, is set to become a significant pilgrim-cum-tourist destination for the Telanganites and the faithful across the world. A dream venture of the Telangana CM K Chandrashekar Rao, the Yadadri project, started in October 2016, is “98% complete”, according to the chief advisor Anandachari Velu Sthapathi. The renowned sculptor is excited and says it is his purva janma sukrutam (boon from his previous birth) that he’s part of this project now. Anandachari Velu is overseeing the final stages of sculpting work with his 11-member team of assistant sthapathis. Over 500 sculptors from Tamil Nadu, Telangana and Andhra Pradesh are engaged at different aspects of sculpting. “Through ancient times, temple architecture and sculptures significantly contributed to a region’s culture and civilization,” points out Anandachari Velu who’s been a part of the mammoth Yadadri project along with renowned sthapathi Sundar Rajan, art director Anand Sai, Yadadri Temple Development Authority vice-chairman Kishan Rao and temple executive officer N Geetha. “Shilpa Kala (the art of sculpting) is an integral part of the temple construction and sculptors are the main enforcers of Agama Shastra in temple building. Agama Shastra, which lays down rules for temple construction, idol installation and worship rituals, was revealed by no less than Lord Shiva to his consort Parvathi. We have conformed 100 % to Agama Shastra guidelines while blending it with Shilpa Shastra, to construct this temple,” he informs. Backed by black stone Touted to be the first of its kind, the seven-storied 80-feet Maharajagopuram on the western side of the temple is built entirely with black stone, traditionally called Krishna Shila. “The gopurams are usually built in stone till roof level and brick is used beyond that. Even the temples in Tanjore are built that way except for the main gopuram. But in Yadadri, we are using black stone all the way, from top to bottom for the Maharajagopuram and other six gopurams in the expanse of the temple,” says Anandachari Velu. The garbha griha (Sanctum sanctorum) where the presiding deity swayambhu Narasimha resides, is intact; the only renovation here being the construction of a 48-ft five-storied vimana gopuram, which now awaits gold plating.  The centrally air-conditioned Mukha Mandapam facing the sanctum sanctorum is adorned with pillars that have the imposing statues of the 12 Alwars carved on them, and depiction of Prahlada’s story in brass. “Our sculptors worked with devotion and passion to bring alive the epic narratives,” says Anandachari Velu before adding, “The work on Prakara Mandapams in the periphery of the temple, meant for various ‘puja’ rituals is another sculptural marvel that the artists have worked on to enhance the aesthetics of the temple.” Doing away with the cement to bind the slabs together, a mix of lime mortar, karakkaya (Indian hog plum), jaggery, aloe vera and jute has been used instead, informs the Sthapathi. An ancient practice, this mix is believed to withstand all vagaries of nature. “The sculptures may break, but will not melt,” he affirms. More than two lakh tons of granite was quarried from Gurijepalli mines in Prakasam district, AP, after the experts from IIT Chennai, approved of its quality and durability. “With the technology that’s available now, made it possible to speed up the construction — what could have taken a few decades in the past — to a matter of four years, says the proud 68-year-old Shapathi who’s had an illustrious career with the Endowments Department, AP before his retirement in 2010. Reappointed in 2013 at Srisaila Devasthanam as an Aasthana Sthapathi till 2014, Anandachari Velu became the Sthapathi Advisor YTDA in 2018. Exemplary skill Born in Chittoor in AP, Anandachari did his master’s degree in Archaeology and trained in the art of temple architecture and sculptural work at the TTD Silpakalasala. He has done thousands of temple architecture and sculpture works and received more than 100 awards, significant ones being the State Government’s Kalaratna in 2013 and Pratibha Puraskar from the Telugu University. Just after his training, Anandachari had the opportunity to work on sculptures that adorned the Venkateswara temple in New York in 1975. He gained immense experience as part of the Srisailam Submergible Transplantation of Temples work. Under Ganapathi Sthapathi, he participated in the sculpting of Buddha statue in Hussain Sagar. He left his mark at the rebuilding of the Srikalahasti temple’s rajagopuram, Hathiramji Mutt’s Venugopala Swamy temple in Tirupathi and many more. “Not many are aware but the S.V. Institute of Traditional Sculpture & Architecture at TTD has been producing graduates (sthapathis) in the last 50 years. A similar one is being set up at Yadadri now,” informs Anandachari Velu, who’s perhaps the only sthapathi in the country to have a PhD from the Theological University, New York, in ‘Religious architecture and construction methods of Hindu, Muslim and Christianity’. Is there a commonality that he finds? “All three worship places have domes – a great indication of unity in diversity,” he signs off.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/sculptors-take-centre-stage-at-yadadri/article33671391.ece
27 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Internet, traffic and metro services disrupted in the Capital||As chaos ensued at several parts of the Capital due to protesting farmers breaking barricades and steering away from the pre-decided route of their tractor rally, Internet was suspended in several areas and over twenty entry and exit gates of the Delhi Metro were closed as a precautionary measure. The Delhi Traffic Police curtailed the entry of vehicles into the city as well as parts of central Delhi, causing major traffic jams. An order from the Home Ministry read: “In the interest of maintaining public safety and averting public emergency, it is necessary and expedient to order the temporary suspension of internet services in the areas of Singhu, Ghazipur, Tikri, Mukarba Chowk, Nangloi and their adjoining areas in the NCT of Delhi.” However, people in parts of Central Delhi, Noida, Greater Noida and other areas also complained of poor internet connectivity. Green Line affected The entry and exit gates of at least 20 metro stations were also closed and the Delhi Metro took to Twitter to announce closures throughout the day. A majority of the metro stations on the Green Line were closed at various points of the day apart from stations that included Jama Masjid, Rohini Sector 18/19, Haiderpur Badli Mor, Jahangir Puri, Adarsh Nagar, Azadpur, Model Town, GTB Nagar, Vishwavidyalaya, Vidhan Sabha, and Civil Lines among many others. Trains stopped Railway trains were also stopped as a precautionary measure for over two hours at the Tilak Bridge railway station after the protesters reached ITO and clashed with the police. According to a senior railway official, “trains were stopped for 2 hours between 12.30 p.m. and 2.30 p.m. as a precautionary measure at Tilak bridge station”. The traffic on the city roads, though thin due to the Republic Day holiday, was thrown completely out of gear. However, the traffic on most roads in the national capital was restored by around 9 p.m., according to the Delhi Traffic Police.  Delhi Police also took to Twitter to provide traffic updates throughout the day. While traffic was heavy on GTK Road, Outer Ring Road, Badli Road, KN Katzu Marg, Madhuban Chowk, Kanjhawala Road, Palla Road, Narela, DSIDC Narela, Wazirabad road, ISBT Road, GT Road, Pushta Road, Vikas Marg, NH-24, Road no. 57, Noida Link Road among others in the afternoon. Main thoroughfares like Shankar Road, Talkatora Road and Minto Road were also closed by the police. In the evening, traffic was affected from Punjabi Bagh underpass to Zakhira, Peeragarhi to Punjabi Bagh, Raja Garden Flyover to Dhaula Kuan among other areas. The ITO junction that was one of the major points where the protests turned violent was blocked throughout the day, but traffic resumed in the evening at the busy intersection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/internet-traffic-and-metro-services-disrupted-in-the-capital/article33671261.ece
27 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Protesters went on a rampage in attempt to enter city centre’||A major clash broke out between police and protesters after a large group of farmers in tractors reached ITO Chowk and tried to move towards Lutyens’ Delhi on Tuesday. At 12.03 p.m., this reporter was crossing ITO Chowk to reach the Singhu border when a large group of protesters arrived under the ITO flyover on Ring Road. One group had come from Ghazipur border via Akshardham and another from the Singhu border via Kashmere Gate. The protesters broke past the police barriers and snatched the keys of a police bus that was parked to stop them from moving further towards central Delhi. The farmers moved the bus to allow tractors to make their way towards Tilak Bridge. On the way, some protesters damaged police barriers near the Old Delhi police headquarters. Around seven tractors rammed a DTC bus parked at the ITO crossing and managed to push it away. Around 1 p.m., police fired tear gas shells to stop farmers from marching towards India Gate. The police action prompted violence from some farmers. Several police personnel as well as protesters suffered injuries during stone pelting and subsequent lathi-charge. The police, however, managed to push the protesters back to the ITO crossing.  Public property A large group of youngsters also went on a rampage, damaging police vehicles, iron railings, and other public property at ITO Chowk. They also tried to move a DTC bus placed under Tilak Bridge, but failed to do so after a lathi-charge. A small group of protesters drove their tractors recklessly at the ITO crossing to clear a path through the police line. The police, however, managed to puncture the tyres of several tractors. Subsequently, many protesters moved towards the Red Fort. Around 1.30 p.m. a protester died after his tractor allegedly overturned at Minto Road, where the Delhi police had placed barricades to stop the protesters. The farmers, however, alleged that the man died in police firing. Some protesters also misbehaved with media persons and snatched their mobile phones and cameras. A police officer said they had clear instructions not to open fire. Rapid Action Force arrived at 1.45 p.m. to control the situation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/protesters-went-on-a-rampage-in-attempt-to-enter-city-centre/article33671244.ece
27 January 2021||New Delhi,||Violence weakened peaceful movement by farmers: AAP||Amid instances of the farmer’s protest taking a violent turn in parts of the Capital on Tuesday, Aam Aadmi Party stated that the incidents have “certainly weakened” the farmers’ movement, which was going on peacefully. “We strongly condemn the violence seen in today’s [Tuesday’s] protest. It is regrettable that the Central government allowed the situation to deteriorate to such an extent. The movement has been peaceful for the last two months. Farmer leaders have said that those who indulged in violence were not part of the movement and were external elements,” the party said in a statement. “Whoever they were, the violence has certainly weakened the movement, which was going on so peacefully and in a disciplined manner,” it further said. AAP has been supporting the farmers’ protest and has on multiple times demanded the Centre to roll back the three farm laws. Except for the statement, the party was silent on the developments during the day. Party chief Arvind Kejriwal and senior leader Manish Sisodia, who are active on social media, did not post a single tweet. The party twitter handle posted the statement and national spokesperson Raghav Chadha tweeted it and nothing else about the development.  Farmer leaders have said that those who indulged in violence were not part of the movement and were external elements AAP statement||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/violence-weakened-peaceful-movement-by-farmers-aap/article33671264.ece
27 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||41 security personnel injured as violence erupts at Red Fort||Delhi Police and paramilitary personnel jumped from a height of 20 feet to save their lives when violence broke out in the Red Fort premises during farmers’ tractor parade on Tuesday. A senior police officer said that adequate number of security personnel were deployed to prevent entry of protesters at the Red Fort but they were outnumbered by protesters who turned violent. A total 41 security personnel received injuries after they jumped from the height of 20 feet when cornered by protesters at the Red Fort. “We just prevented protesters from entering the Red Fort and they turned violent. Protesters attacked security personnel with iron rods, sticks and pelted stones. Many received injuries after they jumped into a drain located in the periphery of the Red Fort. They were rushed to a hospital where they are undergoing treatment, “ said a police officer. The officer added that after policemen fell into the drain, protesters kept hitting them with stones. At Lal Qila, they broke the gates and entered the wells. A section of the crowd also managed to climb atop the ramparts of the Red Fort where they hoisted their organisation’s flag. With great efforts, police managed to remove the crowd from the rampart and the vicinity, said the officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/41-security-personnel-injured-as-violence-erupts-at-red-fort/article33671265.ece
27 January 2021||New Delhi,||Mixed feelings among parade viewers on Central Vista project||There was a mixed response among people, who had come to witness the Republic Day parade at Rajpath, about the Central Vista redevelopment project. Some said the government should have done it at some other place while others said it is the “need of the hour”. This will probably be the last Republic Day parade on Rajpath before works for the project begins in the area.  ‘Low economy’ Anmol Gupta, 23, said this is not the right time to carry out the project as “the economy is down due to the pandemic”. Her 20-year-old friend Ravi Kumar, an IIT-Delhi student, said a new parliament may not be actually needed. “Studies show that with time, the population will not increase in our country after a point of time. So, the argument that we will need a bigger parliament to accommodate more representatives doesn’t work,” he said. Some get nostalgic Raj Prajapati, 33, said people will miss the current Rajpath area. “There will be more security and entry for the public will be restricted in a way. But we do not know the final plan yet. But the new buildings can be an attraction too,” he said. Nandakumar, 29, and his friend Agam Sharma, 26, were of different opinions about the project. “It’s the need of the hour. Right now, our government offices are very crowded, and we need more space,” Mr. Nandakumar said. He said the government should develop another area for people for the loss of public space. Mr. Sharma, on the other hand, said: “We do not need a new parliament building. Even the U.S. Capitol is very old. The current parliament can be protected and renovated. We do not have to chop down hundreds of trees in the name of development in the heart of the city,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/mixed-feelings-among-parade-viewers-on-central-vista-project/article33671252.ece
27 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Artistes, children who participated in R-Day rescued from Red Fort||Delhi Police rescued around 300 artistes, including children, who had come to Delhi to perform at the Republic Day parade. They got stranded at the Red Fort as violence broke out in the area and adjoining sites. The artistes had made their way towards the Red Fort along with the tableaux after completion of the parade, which ended this year at the National Stadium. DCP (North) Anto Alphonse said there were around 300 artistes, including children, at the Red Fort. When the situation got out of hand, they moved all artistes to a safe location under police protection. Several were shifted to Daryaganj and other police buildings. ‘Gave them food’ “We provided them food and assured their families back in their villages that their children are safe in Delhi. They will be sent back safely,” said Mr. Alphonse. An artiste from Karnataka who wished not to be named said that she was very excited to be in the city as this was her first trip, but she never imagined what she saw at the Red Fort. “My parents got worried after seeing visuals of violence at Red Fort. A policeman took me and others in a police van to a safe building and talked to my parents and assured them that I am safe,” said the girl. A policeman, who along with other policemen rescued the artistes said that the children were scared as the protesting farmers entered the Red Fort and clashed with the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/artistes-children-who-participated-in-r-day-rescued-from-red-fort/article33671240.ece
27 January 2021||New Delhi,||‘We saw glimpses of a great Republic’||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday unfurled the National Flag at his residence to mark the 72nd Republic Day. In his address, Mr. Kejriwal lauded the contributions of the medical fraternity, soldiers, farmers and sanitation workers among others who, he said, despite such difficult circumstances, displayed bravery and unity towards serving the nation on several occasions. “The nation is celebrating the 72nd Republic Day today. In the last one year, we have witnessed glimpses of our great Republic and its strong unity on different occasions,” he said in a video message. “In the midst of the biggest epidemic that has hit humankind, we witnessed our doctors and nurses serving people by risking their own lives, we saw sanitation workers ensuring cleanliness, brave soldiers protecting the country and serving the people of this great Republic. We saw the dedication and struggle of our farmers,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/we-saw-glimpses-of-a-great-republic/article33671245.ece
27 January 2021||New Delhi,||Locals perch on rooftops, balconies to witness farmers’ tractor parade||It was a never seen before moment for thousands of people who gathered at roadsides and perched on the rooftops and balconies watching the tractor parade taken out by farmer unions on Tuesday in protest against the Centre’s farm laws. The parade taken out from Tikri, Singhu, Ghazipur and other border points of the national capital received a warm welcome with locals showering flower petals, offering food and water and greeting them with slogans and cheers. “I have never seen a tractor parade such as this. This is New India for me. I am recording this for my grandchildren who are too little to understand its importance now. I am sure they will thank me for this later,” said Anita Batwal, 62, a retired school teacher. Many bystanders who witnessed the parade termed the farmers their brothers and guests who were fighting for their rights. “My husband and I have come to welcome them. They are our guests. We lost our land in U.P. in a court battle, we know their pain,” said Kamla from Budhpur in Delhi. A large number of people near Anand Vihar railway station lined the roadsides and recorded the tractor parade as farmers from Ghazipur drove past. “It is bigger and better than what we expected. Locals cheering for us throughout the route has motivated us further. We will take what is our. Ab Delhi door nahi ,” said 23-year-old Jaspal Singh from Gurdaspur in Punjab, taking part in the parade.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/locals-perch-on-rooftops-balconies-to-witness-farmers-tractor-parade/article33671254.ece
27 January 2021||New Delhi,||Strong police resistance forces farmers to retreat||The day-long parallel Republic Day parade of the farmers did not go as planned for most of them as their attempt to enter the heart of the Capital was met with strong resistance from Delhi police personnel. Harish Chandra, 24, a wheat farmer from Hathras in Uttar Pradesh, said he and other members of his group have been forced to return to Ghazipur border, where they have been camping, as police had barricaded all entry points towards India Gate. “We are heading back to Ghazipur, but not going back home. We will continue with the protest until the three farm laws are repealed,” said Jhandha Singh, 62, a sugarcane farmer from Amroha in U.P., sitting at the back of a trailer fitted to a tractor. When asked if the tractor parade was going to have any impact on the Centre, Mr. Singh said: “Yes, this should impact them. They should know by now that we are not going back until our demands are met.” The farmers who had been stationed at Singhu and Ghazipur border had started their parade early in the morning. By noon, there was over a kilometre-long traffic snarl on both side of the road leading to ITO crossing. A group of farmers from Ghazipur side, who could not move any further towards ITO, decided to return back, while others decided to keep moving ahead. By 4 p.m., the news of the death of a farmer at the ITO crossing had spread quickly. “The body is lying at the ITO crossing since 1 p.m.,” said Sukhwant Singh, 45, a wheat farmer from Punjab, who was heading back to Singhu border.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/strong-police-resistance-forces-farmers-to-retreat/article33671242.ece
27 January 2021||New Delhi,||‘Kisan Andolan no more in control of farmer unions’||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) State president Adesh Gupta said that hoisting “undesired flags” at the ramparts of the Red Fort and violence witnessed in the national capital showed that the Kisan Andolan was “no more in control” of farmers’ associations. Besides, he accused the Congress and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) of being behind the incidents across Delhi and condemned them. ‘Can’t be farmers’ North-East Delhi MP Manoj Tiwari questioned whether those who engaged in violence were in fact farmers. “On Republic Day, people who create a fuss, crush the police with tractors, insult the tricolor, cannot be farmers… Farmer leaders themselves should consider what they did? [sic]” Mr. Tiwari tweeted. “In fact, all along it has been supplemented by elements from the Congress and the Aam Aadmi Party cadres from Punjab,” Mr. Gupta alleged. Condemns violence “Delhi BJP strongly condemns the violence and hopes the farmer leaders will call off Kisan Andolan siege of Delhi borders, which has inconvenienced people of Delhi and the entire North India,” Mr. Gupta said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/kisan-andolan-no-more-in-control-of-farmer-unions/article33671262.ece
27 January 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi records 157 new COVID cases, 7 deaths||Delhi recorded 157 fresh COVID-19 cases in 24 hours, taking the total number of cases to 6,34,229, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Tuesday. Also, seven more deaths have been reported in 24 hours, taking the total number of deaths to 10,820. A total of 64,973 tests were done in a day. Of the total cases, 6,21,783 people have recovered and there are 1,626 active cases. The positivity rate of COVID-19 cases in the city was 0.24% on Tuesday and the overall positivity till now was 6.06%, the health bulletin stated. Out of the total 8,949 beds available for COVID-19 treatment in the city, 91.6% beds were vacant. There were only 703 people under home isolation and 746 in hospitals. The Case Fatality Rate till now was 1.71%. Also, there were 1,653 containment zones in the city as of Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/delhi-records-157-new-covid-cases-7-deaths/article33671247.ece
27 January 2021||New Delhi,||Yadav: I take responsibility, feel ashamed||Swaraj India president Yogendra Yadav said he felt “ashamed” of the way the farmers’ tractor parade turned out on Tuesday, and took responsibility for it. “Being a part of the protest,” he said, “I feel ashamed of the way things proceeded and I take responsibility of it.” “Violence impacts any kind of protest in a wrong way. I cannot say at the moment who did it and who did not, but prima facie it looks like it has been done by the people that we kept out of the farmers’ protest,” Mr. Yadav said. “I appealed continuously that we stick to whatever route was decided and not deviate,” said Mr. Yadav.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/yadav-i-take-responsibility-feel-ashamed/article33671255.ece
27 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Centre trying to provoke farmers with sticks: Cong.||Commenting on the clash between protesting farmers and the police, Delhi Congress chief Ch. Anil Chaudhary on Tuesday said that the Central government was trying to provoke the farmers by hitting them with sticks and firing tear gas at them. Mr. Kumar said: “The Modi government wants farmers to commit violence and is trying to provoke them so that it can be shown in the media that the farmers are behaving like goons.”   He also added that the “Modi-Shah police” had raised stick on unarmed farmers coming to Delhi on Republic Day. The Delhi Congress had on Monday said that it would support the tractor rally being organised by the farmers and would be stationed at the borders to welcome them as they enter the Capital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/centre-trying-to-provoke-farmers-with-sticks-cong/article33671259.ece
27 January 2021||January 27 2021 00:00 IST,||Faith gets ample play at R-Day parade||Ram, Shiva, Ayyappa, Allah and Guru Tegh Bahadur — all of them were mentioned at some point of the day during the Republic Day parade at Rajpath on Tuesday. Achievements of India Before the parade began at 9.30 a.m., an anchor while briefing about different achievements of the country,  said: “The construction of Ram temple at Ayodhya commenced with Bhoomi Puja and laying of foundation stone by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.” At around 11 a.m., Ram was mentioned again when a tableau of Uttar Pradesh — Ayodhya: Cultural Heritage of Uttar Pradesh — was showcased. In the middle part of the tableau, there was a miniature model of Ram temple. “The epitome of Ayodhya’s cultural identity associated with mass sentiments and devotion, has been shown. The model of the temple in itself generates the feeling of devotion and reverence,” a booklet by the Ministry of Defence on the parade read. Communal harmony Delhi’s tableau, which is also a representation of communal harmony, opened with a song that started with “Allah Hu Akbar Allah”. The tableau of Punjab showcased the glory of the ninth Sikh Guru, Guru Tegh Bahadur, while that of Uttarakhand showed a temple of Shiva. “The tableau also shows Nandi — the vehicle of Lord Shiva, travellers in Kedarnath Dham and devotees. The rear portion of the tableau shows temple of Lord Kedar, which is one of the twelve Jyotirlingas. Divya Shila, shown just behind the temple is the divine rock that stood in the way of the floods and saved the Kedarnath shrine in disaster of 2013,” the booklet about tableau of Uttarakhand read. When the Brahmos Weapon System was shown during the parade, the anchor mentioned that the war cry of the unit is “Swamy Saranam Ayyappa”. Most of the people The Hindu spoke to was thrilled to watch a ‘vertical charlie’ by a single Rafale aircraft and many liked the tableau by Uttar Pradesh, which had a miniature Ram temple. A 27-year-old Yoga teacher, Naveen Chechi, and his two friends had come from Haryana’s Palwal to watch the parade. “We came by car. But we were stopped at 8 a.m. near Lodhi Garden area and we had to almost run for an hour to reach here. Rafale was brilliant. I am very happy to see it. It shows that Pakistan and China is not a competition for us. I a Modi  admirer,” he said. An UPSC aspirant from Kerala, Gokul Das (25), said: “When the Ram temple tableau came, many people sitting next us to were thrilled and shouting Jai Shri Ram . I liked the Rafale.” Outside the parade area The thrill of watching the Rafale was there even outside the parade area. About 100 metres away from the parade route, a chaat seller, Ravi Yadav, said: “I couldn’t leave all my stuff so I missed seeing the Rafale. But, I have seen it on my friend’s phone. I really liked it.”  The area also had “COVID-19 booths”. “At the gate, we were checking temperatures of people using thermal guns . We also had emergency medicine and doctors here,” said Ashish Kumar, 25, a nursing officer. “If anyone had a temperature of more than 100, then the person was not allowed inside,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/faith-gets-ample-play-at-r-day-parade/article33671250.ece
27 January 2021||January 27 2021 00:00 IST,||Sedate start||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/sedate-start/article33671258.ece
27 January 2021||CHANDIGARH,||New narrative being created around farmers’ struggle, says Punjabi actor||Surrounded in controversy after he was seen in the crowd of protesters during the hoisting of a “religious flag” at the Red Fort in Delhi on Tuesday, Deep Sidhu, a Punjabi actor-cum-activist, said attempts were being made to create a new narrative surrounding the ongoing struggle that the movement was threatening the country’s unity and integrity, which is not true. Mr. Sidhu had been a close associate of BJP Lok Sabha MP from Gurdaspur Sunny Deol and had campaigned for him during the 2019 Lok Sabha election. However, last year when Mr. Sidhu joined the ongoing farmers protest against farm laws, Mr. Deol distanced himself from him. After the “flag hoisting” episode, Mr. Sidhu, in a video message on his Facebook page, said: “When for a long period sentiments of people are ignored and such protests are under way, the anger of the people flares up. What happened today was a result of the flared-up anger. In such situation it’s not right to blame any one person for instigating.” He said the flag ‘Nishan Sahib’ was hoisted at the Red Fort as a symbolic protest against the farm laws. “We also hoisted a flag of farm union Kisan Mazdoor Ekta. But we didn’t remove the Tricolour. We hoisted the flags to show unity in diversity... What happened today shouldn’t be seen in isolation, it has happened in continuation of protests that have been going on for the past several months.” “The incident [flag hoisting] was not done by any planning. It just happened in flow of the protest,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/new-narrative-being-created-around-farmers-struggle-says-punjabi-actor/article33671268.ece
27 January 2021||Dumka (Jharkhand),||Soren vows 75% jobs in private sector for locals||Announcing a host of welfare measures on the Republic Day, Jharkhand Chief Minister Hemant Soren said his government will soon formulate a new domicile policy and reserve 75% jobs in the private sector for the people of the State. He also said that the government will recruit schoolteachers and police personnel. Unfurling the national flag at Dumka Police Lines, Mr. Soren said, “2021 will be the year of appointments... A new domicile policy will be formulated and 75% of the posts in the private sector will be reserved for local people.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/soren-vows-75-jobs-in-private-sector-for-locals/article33671266.ece
27 January 2021||JAIPUR,||Gehlot govt. brings M-sand policy for construction works||The Rajasthan government on Monday brought the much-awaited policy on manufactured sand (M-sand), giving industry status to the units producing it for construction work and reducing the dependence on bajri (riverbed sand). The Supreme Court had banned illegal mining on riverbeds in 2017. Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot launched the new policy at his official residence here, while affirming that it would prove to be a “game changer” for the construction industry. The policy would help create employment opportunities through new units and resolve the issue of huge quantities of waste generated in the mining areas, he said. “Sufficient quantity of sand [for construction] is not available in Rajasthan in the wake of judicial orders and environment-related procedures. The new policy will ensure availability of M-sand as a long-term alternative to bajri ,” Mr. Gehlot said. The policy will enable the investors to set up M-sand units by utilising the incentives offered by the State government. It will also help in environmental protection and generate faith among the public in the efficacy of M-sand for construction works. Mines Minister Pramod Bhaya said the demand for sand in the construction sector had touched 70 million tonnes, which would be met by the new policy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/gehlot-govt-brings-m-sand-policy-for-construction-works/article33671273.ece
27 January 2021||JAIPUR,||School of Public Health launched in Rajasthan||A new School of Public Health (SPH) has been launched here to make policy intervention for building public health capacity and skills and bridge gaps between education and practices in Rajasthan. The school is expected to play an important role in healthcare management in the post-COVID-19 scenario. Named after Indian Institute of Health Management Research (IIHMR) chairperson S.D. Gupta, the school will provide technical support to health systems and render help to the State government in harnessing new technologies. IIHMR Dean (Research) D.K. Mangal said on Tuesday that the SPH has taken up a study on non-communicable diseases, climate change and antimicrobial resistance as its first project to identify priority areas in public healthcare. The study will examine the scope for data analytics and artificial intelligence as the key segments for the public health sector. Dr. Mangal said the major thrust areas for the school would be digital health technology and evaluation of surveillance mechanisms that could help the policy makers in identifying the challenges and bringing changes to ensure “equity and inclusion” in public health.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/school-of-public-health-launched-in-rajasthan/article33671271.ece
27 January 2021||Mumbai,||Farmers hoist Tricolour at Azad Maidan||Thousands of cultivators, who had arrived here from parts of Maharashtra to protest against the Centre’s farm laws, left for their homes on Tuesday after an elderly woman agitator hoisted the Tricolour at the Azad Maidan in Mumbai. The flag hoisting was held at the ground in south Mumbai around 9.30 a.m. following which the protesters headed towards their native places, the All India Kisan Sabha (AIKS) said. The farmers held a rally at the Azad Maidan on Monday to express solidarity with the farmers agitating near Delhi borders against the Centre’s three new farm laws. NCP president Sharad Pawar, Maharashtra Congress chief Balasaheb Thorat, Peasants and Workers Party leader Jayant Patil and various farmers’ representatives attended the rally on Monday. Around 15,000 farmers arrived in the State capital for the rally, the Maharashtra unit of the AIKS earlier said. “The flag hoisting ceremony was held at the Azad Maidan on Tuesday morning. After that, the farmers headed towards their homes. The movement is in line with what we had decided earlier,” AIKS president Ashok Dhawale said over phone. The Samyukt Kisan Morcha had given a nationwide call for a struggle from January 23 to 26, including rallies to Raj Bhavans in States. Accordingly, the protesters in Mumbai took out a march towards the Raj Bhavan here after the public meeting at Azad Maidan on Monday. However, police stopped the protesters mid-way. ‘Missing’ Governor A delegation of farmers was to meet and submit a memorandum to Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari. But, after they learnt that the Governor was in Goa on Monday, the farmers’ leaders accused Mr. Koshyari of not meeting them despite giving an appointment himself. The leaders charged the Governor with “running away” to Goa and “insulting” the farmers by not being in Raj Bhavan to accept their memorandum, copies of which they later tore to condemn the Governor’s action. The Raj Bhavan on Monday dismissed the claims and said Mr. Koshyari, who is also the Governor of Goa, left for the neighbouring coastal State to address its Assembly, the five- day session of which began on Monday. The Raj Bhavan also said representatives of the Samyukt Shetkari Morcha were informed in advance that the Governor would not be able to meet the delegation as he would be in Goa.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/farmers-hoist-tricolour-at-azad-maidan/article33671270.ece
27 January 2021||January 27 2021 00:00 IST,||Trump impeachment goes to Senate||Democrats of the U.S. House of Representatives delivered charges of “incitement of insurrection” against former President Donald Trump to their Senate colleagues, clearing the way for his trial by the upper chamber of the U.S. Congress. With enthusiasm waning among the GOP Senators, it is far from clear that Senate Democrats will get the required minimum of 17 GOP Senate votes to convict the former President of inciting his supporters to attack the U.S. Capitol on January 6. Earlier this month, Mr. Trump became the first President in history to be impeached twice — on January 13 this year and in December 2019, when he was impeached on charges of abuse of power with regard to leveraging the relationship with Ukraine to gain political favours and the obstruction of Congress in the ensuing investigation. On Monday, a group of Democratic Representatives who will act as prosecutors in the trial, participated in a ceremonial walk across to the Senate to hand over the charges. Representative Jamie Raskin addressed the Senate, saying, “Donald John Trump had engaged in high crimes and misdemeanors by inciting violence against the government of the United States.” Chief Justice John Roberts will not preside over Mr. Trump’s trial as he had done last year, because Mr. Trump is no longer in office. Instead, the senior most Democrat in the Senate, Patrick Leahy of Vermont, will preside over the impeachment. If Mr. Trump is convicted by the Senate, he could be barred from holding public office again – ending the possibility of a 2024 run. A total of 27 GOP Senators had opposed charging Mr. Trump, 16 said they were undecided and seven did not respond, according to a survey by the New York Times . This is in contrast to early last year when the Senate was almost fully split along party lines in the final vote on conviction. Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell — who had initially rallied behind Mr. Trump in his quest to challenge the election results — has expressed an openness to convicting the former President this time. Other Republican Senators, however, questioned the constitutionality of impeaching an ex-President. Mr. Trump, who won close to 75 million votes in the presidential election — a record for any incumbent, has the potential to remain a powerful force in the Republican party. Over the weekend, one of Mr. Trump’s aides told some Republican Senators that the former President intended to stay within the GOP and not float a new party, Politico reported. Going against Mr. Trump by voting to convict, could result in tough primary (intra-party) elections for Senators if Mr. Trump backs their challengers. Trump launches office Also on Monday, Mr. Trump’s team announced the establishment of the ‘ Office of the Former President’ to manage Mr. Trump’s “ correspondence, public statements, appearances, and official activities to advance the interests of the U.S. and to carry on the agenda of the Trump Administration through advocacy, organising, and public activism.” The former President, who has been suspended by Twitter and Facebook, has been uncharacteristically quiet since he left Washington DC. Biden for trial Mr. Biden told CNN that the trial “ has to happen,” although he did not believe 17 Republican Senators would vote to convict Mr. Trump. The new President is hoping to push forward with his agenda – a $1.9 trillion coronavirus stimulus, immigration reform and the confirmation of his cabinet picks. The trial is likely to begin in the week of February 8, giving both sides time to build their arguments or collect evidence for the trial and allowing more time for some of the new administration’s work to get under way. The Senate confirmed Janet Yellen to the position of Treasury Secretary on Monday. It had already confirmed Lloyd Austin as Defence Secretary and Avril Haines as Director of National Intelligence last week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/trump-impeachment-goes-to-senate/article33670967.ece
27 January 2021||Rome,||As pandemic rages on, Italy PM Conte quits||Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte resigned on Tuesday in the hope of forming a new government after weeks of turmoil in his ruling coalition, leaving Italy rudderless as it battles the deadly coronavirus pandemic. He tendered his resignation to President Sergio Mattarella, the ultimate arbiter of Italian political crises, who invited him to stay on in a caretaker capacity pending discussions on what happens next. The uneasy coalition that has led Italy since September 2019 was fatally weakened earlier this month by the withdrawal of former premier Matteo Renzi’s small but crucial Italia Viva party. Ahead of a key vote in Parliament this week that he looked set to lose, Mr. Conte informed his Cabinet on Tuesday that he would quit in what supporters said was a move to form a new government. After the meeting with Mr. Mattarella, a spokesman for the President said he “reserves the right to decide (what to do next) and invited the government to stay in office in a caretaker capacity”. Mr. Mattarella will open discussions with party leaders on Wednesday afternoon. Italy was the first European country to face the full force of the COVID-19 pandemic and has since suffered badly, with the economy plunged into recession and deaths still rising by around 400 a day. Parts of the country remain under partial lockdown, the vaccination programme has slowed and a deadline is looming to agree plans to spend billions of euros in European Union recovery funds. Seeking a new mandate Foreign Minister Luigi Di Maio, one of the leaders of the populist Five Star Movement (M5S), the largest in Parliament, earlier said it was time to rally around Mr. Conte. “The country is going through one of its worst ever periods due to the pandemic,” he tweeted. “Now we need unity, we all have to gather around Giuseppe Conte.” Mr. Conte’s government had been on the verge of collapse since Mr. Renzi pulled out on January 13 in a row over the premier’s handling of the pandemic. The Prime Minister survived a vote of confidence in Parliament last week but failed to secure an overall majority in the upper house, the Senate. “Conte’s calculation is that by moving early, and thereby avoiding a humiliating defeat in the Senate later this week, he would increase his chances of securing a mandate from Mattarella to form a new government,” noted Wolfango Piccoli of the Teneo consultancy. Democratic Party (PD), the other main partner in the coalition, is so far is backing Mr. Conte.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/as-pandemic-rages-on-italy-pm-conte-quits/article33670972.ece
27 January 2021||Naypyidaw,||Myanmar Army raises prospect of coup after voter-fraud claims||Myanmar‘s powerful military on Tuesday raised the spectre of staging a coup as it ramped up demands for an investigation into alleged voter fraud during last year’s election, swept by Aung San Suu Kyi’s ruling party. The National League for Democracy (NLD) won November’s poll in a landslide, but has been much criticised by rights groups for its disenfranchisement of voters in conflict-wracked regions. The military-aligned opposition disputed the results, while the Army has for weeks alleged widespread voter irregularities, claiming to have found 8.6 million cases of fraud. Military spokesman Major General Zaw Min Tun on Tuesday renewed calls for the country’s embattled Election Commission to provide final voter lists for cross-checking — a demand that so far has not been met. Mr. Zaw Min Tun said that military chief Min Aung Hlaing — arguably Myanmar’s most powerful individual— has already pointed out “dishonesty and unfairness” during the election. When pressed on the possibility of a coup, the spokesman refused to be drawn, but did not rule it out. “We do not say the Tatmadaw will take power. We do not say it will not as well,” he said, using the Burmese name for the military. “What we can say is we will follow current existing laws, including the Constitution.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/myanmar-army-raises-prospect-of-coup-after-voter-fraud-claims/article33670974.ece
27 January 2021||New York,||‘Inclusive reforms must for UNSC to be effective’||India has said that the UN Security Council is finding itself unable to act effectively to address increasingly complex issues of international peace and security as it lacked inclusivity of those who need to be members of the powerful organ of the world body. India, along with Brazil, Japan and Germany are pressing for urgent reform of the UN Security Council and for a permanent seat in the reformed 15-member top organ of the world body. “It has been nearly 13 years since the Intergovernmental Negotiations (IGN) started,” said India’s Permanent Representative to the UN, Ambassador T.S. Tirumurti. “The Security Council is being called upon to address increasingly complex issues of global security. Yet, it finds itself unable to act effectively, for it is lacking inclusivity of those who need to be there, and therefore lacking legitimacy and credibility,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/inclusive-reforms-must-for-unsc-to-be-effective/article33670976.ece
27 January 2021||New York,||U.S. announces restoration of relations with Palestinians||U.S. President Joe Biden’s administration announced Tuesday it was restoring relations with the Palestinians and renewing aid to Palestinian refugees, a reversal of the Donald Trump administration’s cutoff and a key element of its new support for a two-state solution to the decades-old conflict agreed to by Israelis and Palestinians. Acting U.S. Ambassador Richard Mills made the announcement of Mr. Biden’s new approach to a high-level Security Council meeting, saying the new U.S. administration believes this “remains the best way to ensure Israel’s future as a democratic and Jewish state and the Palestinians’ legitimate aspirations for a State of their own and to live with dignity and security.” “In order to advance these objectives the Biden administration will restore credible U.S. engagement with Palestinians as well as Israelis,” Mr. Mills said. “This will involve renewing U.S. relations with the Palestinian leadership and Palestinian people,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-announces-restoration-of-relations-with-palestinians/article33671042.ece
27 January 2021||Berlin,||AstraZeneca rejects reports on vaccine efficacy in elderly||Germany’s Health Ministry on Tuesday joined AstraZeneca in rubbishing reports quoting unnamed government sources that claimed the British-Swedish company’s Covid-19 vaccine showed little efficacy for people above 65.  Handelsblatt daily had reported on Monday that Berlin had estimated that the efficacy of the jab in people above 65 was just 8%, citing unnamed sources. Separately, Bild daily, quoting anonymous sources, put the efficacy rate at “less than 10%”. But Germany’s Health Ministry said it appears that there have been some mix up in the reports. “Around 8% of the volunteers in AstraZeneca’s efficacy studies were around 56 and 69 years old and three to 4% are above 70 years old,” said the Ministry. “However, this does not mean that it is effective only in 8% of older people,” it added. The company has also rejected the media reports on its vaccine efficacy in adults over 65 years as “completely incorrect”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/astrazeneca-rejects-reports-on-vaccine-efficacy-in-elderly/article33670968.ece
27 January 2021||Colombo,||Sri Lanka thanks India for vaccines||Sri Lanka on Tuesday expressed appreciation and gratitude to India for sending 5,00,000 doses of coronavirus vaccine to the island country. Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa told the Cabinet that India would be sending 500,000 vaccines to Sri Lanka and they will arrive here on January 28. “The Cabinet of Ministers decided to express the appreciation and gratitude of the Sri Lankan government in this regard,” a Cabinet note said. Sri Lanka will become the eighth country to receive India’s vaccines since it began its immunisation programme on January 16.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/sri-lanka-thanks-india-for-vaccines/article33670973.ece
27 January 2021||LITTLE ROCK,||US--Arkansas Governor-Sanders||Sarah Sanders, Donald Trump’s former chief spokeswoman, announced she’s running for Arkansas Governor at a time other Republicans are distancing themselves from the former President facing an impeachment charge that he incited the deadly siege at the U.S. Capitol. “With the radical left now in control of Washington, your Governor is your last line of defense,” Ms. Sanders said in a video announcing her 2022 bid that prominently featured pictures of the President as well as some of his favourite targets.AP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-arkansas-governor-sanders/article33670970.ece
27 January 2021||January 27 2021 00:00 IST,||Pursuing national interests, at the UN high table||India deserves a permanent seat at the high table of the United Nations, the UN Security Council (UNSC), but is almost sure not to have it anytime soon. Therefore, its two-year non-permanent stint at the UNSC should be viewed as a once-in-a-decade opportunity to clearly identify and pursue its national interests regionally and globally, rather than chase chimerical goals such as a permanent membership or to issue please-all platitudes. The UNSC, unfortunately, is where the leading powers of the international system dictate terms, show less powerful countries their ‘rightful’ place, fight among themselves even as they negotiate deals outside the horseshoe-tabled room. This is not where the lofty ideals of the human race come to fruition; nor are the members of the elite body persuaded by moral and ethical considerations. Seated at the table for the eighth time, New Delhi knows the game. And yet, sometimes it becomes a victim of its own past rhetoric and forgets to play the game to its advantage.  Timing of membership New Delhi’s entry into the UNSC coincides with the emergence of a new world order, one marked by systemic uncertainty, little care for global commons, absence of global leadership, the steady division of the world into rival blocs, and an age marked by unabashed pursuit of narrow national interests, putting even the rhetoric about a value-based global order on the backburner. Efforts by the newly-inaugurated Biden administration in the United States, especially to rejoin the Paris Climate Agreement and, possibly, the Iran nuclear deal, may go on to ameliorate some of the harsh impact of this dog-eat-dog global (dis)order. However, the deep systemic malaise that has already set in will outlive the good ‘intentions’ of a democratic administration in Washington DC, delayed as they come. The UNSC has also reached a point wherein its very relevance is in serious doubt, let alone serious expectations of it to live up to its primary objective: “the maintenance of international peace and security”. India is different too. It is no longer an ardent believer in the fantastical claims about a perfect world at harmony with itself, nor is it a timid bystander in global geopolitics. Contemporary India is more self-confident, resolute and wants to be a shaper of geopolitics even though it lacks the material wherewithal, economic heft, and domestic consensus, to action its ambitions. But at least its mindset has changed, from being satisfied on the margins to desiring to be at the centre stage. On the downside, however, its hard realism is not just a foreign policy attribute but reflective of and stems from its domestic political dynamics, worrying as it were. New Delhi’s pursuit of its interests at the UNSC should, therefore, reflect its material and geopolitical limitations, and its energies should be focused on a clearly identified agenda. The China factor New Delhi’s tenure at the UNSC comes in the wake of its growing military rivalry with Beijing, the impact of which has already started to be felt at the UNSC meetings in New York. China’s opposition to having India chair the Counter-Terrorism Committee (CTC) in 2022 was a precursor to the things to come on the high table. If the Biden administration were to continue with Donald Trump’s policy of pushing back Chinese aggression including at the UNSC, New Delhi might find itself some useful allies in checking Chinese aggression in the region. Greater Indian alignment with the West at the UNSC, an unavoidable outcome, could, however, widen the growing gulf between Moscow and New Delhi given Russia’s increasing dependence on Beijing in more ways than one. However unfortunate that may be, it might not be possible for New Delhi to sit on the fence anymore; doing so would bring more harm than goodwill in an international system where battlelines are sharpening by the day. India’s seat at the UNSC is also significant vis-à-vis China because the next two years will be key to ensure checking further Chinese incursions along the  Line  of Actual Control and building up enough infrastructure and mobilising sufficient forces in the forward areas. Our experience from Doklam to Ladakh to now Arunachal Pradesh points in one direction — that Chinese land grab attempts will continue unabated and in pushing Beijing back, we would need all the assistance we can get. Focus on terror Terror is likely to be a major focus for India at the UNSC. External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar’s statement at the UNSC Ministerial Meeting on the 20th Anniversary of Security Council Resolution 1373 and the establishment of the Counter Terrorism Committee has set the stage for New Delhi’s approach on the issue: “Terrorists are terrorists; there are no good and bad ones. Those who propagate this distinction have an agenda. And those who cover up for them are just as culpable”. New Delhi recently assumed the chair of the Taliban sanctions committee (https://bit.ly/2Yt8STH) which assumes significance given the fast-moving developments in Afghanistan and India’s new-found desire to engage with the Taliban. The issue of terrorism has been a major theme in the country’s national security and foreign policy discourse for decades now, more so of this government. India must, however, formulate its policy towards terrorism with far more diplomatic finesse and political nuance especially given that it is chairing the Taliban sanctions committee while courting the very same Taliban. More so, a nuanced policy towards the Taliban would be difficult to sustain without a similar treatment of domestic insurgencies. Put differently, if New Delhi wishes to make its mark on the global discourse and policy formulation on terrorism, it would need to approach them with far more clarity and intellectual coherence. Yet another area New Delhi would want to focus on while seated at the high table would be to use the forum and its engagement there to build coalitions among like-minded states and set out its priorities for the next decade — from climate change to non-proliferation. While these topics might only concern the UNSC in varying degrees, New Delhi should use its bargaining power at the UNSC to pursue its national interests in other forums and domains as well. Perhaps more significantly, New Delhi’s UNSC strategy should involve shaping the narrative and global policy engagement vis-à-vis perhaps one of the biggest grand strategic concepts of our time — the Indo-Pacific. Given India’s centrality in the Indo-Pacific region and the growing global interest in the concept, New Delhi would do well to take it upon itself to shape the narrative around it. In doing so, it should, through the UNSC and other means, court Moscow once again and assuage its concerns about the Indo-Pacific. Think beyond reforms New Delhi’s pursuit of its national interest at and through the UNSC must also be tempered by the sobering fact that the UNSC is unlikely to admit new members any time soon, if ever at all. India’s past global engagements and efforts have often been contingent on the hope that it would one day be admitted to the UNSC given its irrefutable claim. But a cursory glance at the recent debates on UNSC reforms and the state of the international system today should tell us that bending over backwards to please the big five to gain entry into the UNSC will not make a difference. So New Delhi must focus its energies on what it can achieve during the short period that it would be in the UNSC rather than what it wishes happened. Happymon Jacob teaches at Jawaharlal Nehru University and recently founded Council for Strategic and Defense Research, a New Delhi-based think tank||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/pursuing-national-interests-at-the-un-high-table/article33670954.ece
27 January 2021||January 27 2021 00:00 IST,||We’re not all in the same boat||One of the most incisive and hard-hitting comments on the real import of the COVID-19 crisis came from none other than the United Nations Secretary General, Antonio Guterres. He said: “COVID-19 has been likened to an x-ray, revealing fractures in the fragile skeleton of the societies we have built. It is exposing fallacies and falsehoods everywhere: The lie that free markets can deliver healthcare for all; the fiction that unpaid care work is not work; the delusion that we live in a post-racist world; the myth that we are all in the same boat. While we are all floating on the same sea, it’s clear that some are in super yachts, while others are clinging to the drifting debris.” Oxfam International’s annual report on inequality for 2021, aptly titled ‘The Inequality Virus’, puts the uncomfortable but imperative spotlight on the obscene inequality between the few in “super yachts” and the overwhelming majority “clinging to the drifting debris”. The report was published on the opening day of the World Economic Forum’s ‘Davos Dialogues’. Over the decades, India has faced mammoth challenges including wars and hunger. But the COVID-19 pandemic, which resulted in a migrant crisis, lockdowns, and serious contraction of the economy, and highlighted a crumbling health system, is an unprecedented test of the republic. This is the moment to use the ‘COVID x-ray’ to recognise the deep fissures caused by the growing inequality in the country; and for post-pandemic recovery, resolve to plan a fundamentally different economic model for ensuring an equal, just and sustainable future for all. Uncomfortable truths The Oxfam report highlights deeply uncomfortable truths of how the virus has exposed, fed off, and increased existing inequalities of wealth, gender and race. Over two million people have died, and hundreds of millions of people are being forced into poverty while many of the richest, both individuals and corporations, are thriving. Worldwide, billionaires saw their wealth increase by a staggering $3.9 trillion between March 18 and December 31, 2020. Within nine months, the top 1,000 billionaires, mainly white men, had recovered all the wealth they had lost, while recovery for the world’s poorest people according to most estimates could take over a decade. The pandemic, which is the greatest economic shock since the Great Depression, saw hundreds of millions of people lose their jobs and face destitution and hunger. This shock is set to reverse the decline in global poverty we have witnessed over the past two decades. It is estimated that the total number of people living in poverty could have increased by between 200 million and 500 million in 2020.  Globally, women are over-represented in the sectors of the economy that are hardest hit by the pandemic. If women were represented at the same rate as men in those sectors, 112 million women would no longer be at high risk of losing their incomes or jobs. The unequal impact of the pandemic, in addition to this gender dimension, also has a race dimension. In Brazil, for example, people of Afro-descent have been 40% more likely to die of COVID-19 than white people. The virus has also led to an explosion in the amount of underpaid and unpaid care work, done predominantly by women, and in particular women from groups facing racial and ethnic marginalisation. The rich and poor in India Sadly, India is a case in point. The country introduced one of the earliest and most stringent lockdowns in the face of the pandemic, whose enforcement brought its economy to a standstill triggering unemployment, hunger, distress migration and untold hardship. The rich have been able to escape the pandemic’s worst impact. White-collar workers have easily isolated themselves and have been working from home. The wealth of Indian billionaires increased by 35% during the lockdown and by 90% since 2009. This is despite the fact that most of India has faced a loss of livelihood and the economy has dipped into recession. The increase in the wealth of the top 11 billionaires during the pandemic can easily sustain the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme or the Health Ministry for the next 10 years. We have read astonishing stories of how Mukesh Ambani was making Rs. 90 crore per hour during the lockdown when 24% of the population was earning under Rs. 3,000 per month. According to the International Labour Organization, with almost 90% working in the informal economy in India, about 40 crore workers in the informal economy are at risk of falling deeper into poverty. The Oxfam report undertook a survey of 295 economists from 79 countries. They included leading global economists such as Jayati Ghosh, Jeffrey Sachs and Gabriel Zucman. Of the respondents, 87% expected that income inequality in their country was going to significantly increase as a result of the pandemic. These levels of inequality are not viable and will have a deeply harmful impact. This concern is shared by the International Monetary Fund (IMF), the World Bank, and the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development. The IMF Managing Director, Kristalina Georgieva, said, “The impact will be profound […] with increased inequality leading to economic and social upheaval.”  Fighting inequality India just celebrated its 72nd Republic Day. We must recognise that a radical and sustained reduction in inequality is the indispensable foundation for a just India, as envisioned in the Constitution. The government must set concrete, time-bound targets to reduce inequality. We must move beyond the focus on GDP and start to value what really matters. Fighting inequality must be at the heart of economic rescue and recovery efforts. This must include gender and caste equality. Countries like South Korea, Sierra Leone and New Zealand have committed to reducing inequality as a national priority, showing what can be done. Four things could be done on priority. One, invest in free universal healthcare, education, and other public services. Universal public services are the foundation of free and fair societies and have unparalleled power to reduce inequality, including gender and caste inequality. An immediate step could be delivering a free ‘people’s vaccine’ to all citizens to tackle the pandemic. Two, the virus has shown us that guaranteed income security is essential. For this to happen we need not just living wages but also far greater job security, with labour rights, sick pay, paid parental leave and unemployment benefits if people lose their jobs. Three, reintroduce wealth taxes and ensure financial transaction taxes while putting an end to tax dodging. Progressive taxation is the cornerstone of any equitable recovery, as it will enable investment in a green, equitable future. Argentina showed the way by adopting a temporary solidarity wealth tax on the extremely wealthy that could generate over $3 billion. Four, we need to invest in a green economy that prevents further degradation of our planet and preserves it for our children. The fight against inequality and the fight for climate justice are the same fight. Amitabh Behar is the CEO of Oxfam India||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/were-not-all-in-the-same-boat/article33670965.ece
27 January 2021||January 27 2021 00:00 IST,||Roots to government-private thought partnerships||On January 15, 2021, the Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship (MSDE) launched the Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Vikas Yojana (PMKVY) 3.0. This is the third phase of the scheme which was launched in 2015 to give a boost to skilling in the country. In this third version, the government wants to focus on matching local skilling requirements with local job opportunities. The thrust of PMKVY 3.0 is on empowering States and districts to implement skilling schemes by making regional-level plans. The scheme guidelines state that the scheme shall be implemented in two phases. The first is being implemented on a pilot basis during the 2020-21 fiscal year, while simultaneously initiating the creation of an implementation framework for the second phase (2021-2026). Growing partnership The foresight and planning evident in the scheme’s guidelines signal the MSDE’s thoughtful approach towards revamping the skilling ecosystem in the years ahead. However, any plan of this scale is seldom the work of a few individuals , a department or even a ministry. It requires multiple rounds of consultations and co-working with different entities, including collaboration between the government and external partners. Over the last few years, there has been increasing evidence of the government and external partners working together on complex policy problems. At the more senior level, the government has formalised the induction of private individuals into the system by opening up lateral entry. Lower down the hierarchy, several central government ministries and entities, such as NITI Aayog, routinely recruit private individuals as consultants, officers on special duty or young professionals. Most of the lateral recruitment in government happens at this level. The role of this category of staff is primarily supporting the existing bureaucracy and providing them research and logistical support as and when the need arises. Given the staggering vacancies in the central government, such support is critical since civil servants are generally over-burdened and under-resourced. Lack of capacity also often becomes evident in suboptimal policy decisions and poor implementation of those policies. For the stage of development India is at, it is as critical as it is difficult for the government to take a step back and reflect on how to deliver on its mandate across sectors in the most effective manner. If capacity within the government is lacking, it is necessary to leverage the domain knowledge and resources of private individuals and entities to forge thought partnerships. A key difference It is important here to emphasise that thought partnerships are different from the recruitment of consultants to provide government officials additional manpower to manage routine tasks. Thought partnerships are a structured mechanism for private entities to lend relevant strategic expertise to the government on policy design, evaluation and implementation. Issue of funding From the government perspective, a practical question to be resolved in any such exercise which involves external partners, is funding. Normally, the government would be rightly wary of accepting funding from agencies which come with caveats, associated obligations or other agendas, both implicit and explicit. It is also not always feasible for the government itself to fund projects involving private partners, more so when such projects are unconventional thought partnerships. It is not the quantum of money required to fund a thought partnership that becomes a roadblock (in most cases it would be a fraction of the department or Ministry’s budget), but the process of getting requisite approvals for funding external agencies. Given this context, it is ideal if a committed external partner funds the thought partnership expeditiously without strings attached. The good news is that several domestic and international philanthropies and impact investing firms are already investing billions of dollars into critical sectors in developing countries including India. The not-so-good news is that much of this funding goes into supporting projects or interventions that work in limited, contextual settings rather than systemic or sectoral transformation programmes. This is the difference between trying to improve learning levels in a district through direct classroom interventions versus rethinking how the government school system works in a State or the country. It is here that philanthropies and impact investing firms can make a huge difference. Earlier programmes In the past, systemic thought partnerships have been attempted sporadically across ministries. In 2005, the Ashok Lahiri Committee,  constituted by the Ministry of Finance, came out with a report which stated that there was not enough knowledge about external capital flows and controls in India. The committee’s recommendation resulted in the establishment of the National Institute of Public Finance and Policy, Department of Economic Affairs research programme. The programme led to the creation of a rich body of world-class research on capital controls and flows in India, developed by Indian researchers, that was used to inform government policy on the matter. In 2015, the Ministry of Corporate Affairs constituted a research secretariat headed by the Vidhi Centre for Legal Policy, to support the Companies Law Committee to make “informed decisions…on the principles involved as well as international practices in the areas of insolvency, raising of capital, penalties, related party transactions and other areas”. The National Institute of Financial Management is working with the Department of Economic Affairs to provide legal research and technical assistance on Indian and foreign financial markets, policy analysis, formulation as well as conduct of impact assessment studies on decisions taken by the Securities and Exchange Board of India. In late-2018, the MSDE itself started engaging with multiple private firms such as Dalberg Global Development Advisors and Samagra-Transforming Governance to conceptualise and design its vision for 2025. Pitfalls and solutions These attempts at establishing thought partnerships between the government and private entities,while instructive, are largely disparate and episodic. They do not provide the definitive way forward on government-private collaboration. India faces a dearth of scholars and practitioners who are singularly focused on researching and solving India’s problems. As such, policy choices made in isolation from the rigorous debate, research and questioning which thought partnerships facilitate, can produce suboptimal results. It is therefore in the public interest that more such partnerships are forged and funded to channel external expertise and skills towards finding scalable solutions to the pressing policy challenges the country faces. K.P. Krishnan, a former Secretary, Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship, Government of India, is currently the IEPF Chair Professor in Regulatory Economics at the National Council of Applied Economic Research. Roopa Kudva is Managing Director, Omidyar Network India. The views expressed are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/roots-to-government-private-thought-partnerships/article33670957.ece
27 January 2021||January 27 2021 00:00 IST,||Pallbearers of ‘cow science’||The Rashtriya Kamdhenu Aayog (RKA), constituted in February 2019, has always been in the news for the wrong reasons. The RKA’s website has posts with numerous pseudoscientific claims about cows. In October 2020, its chairperson, Dr. Vallabhbhai Kathiria, claimed that scientific experiments have proven that a “chip made of cow dung” will block harmful radiation from mobile phones. Recently, the RKA announced plans to hold a free online examination on “cow science”. It published a 54-page supposed syllabus/preparation notes for this exam. Through all this, RKA has firmly established its reputation as an organisation which has no connection to real science. The blame for these foolhardy statements/decisions lies squarely at the leadership of the RKA. The RKA’s anti-science stance should have been apparent to any well-trained medical professional. The fact that the leadership still chooses to believe in these fantasies makes their positions untenable and problematic. Strategic silence In any other modern country, if a government commission consistently indulged in such nonsense, the government would be obliged to put that commission on notice. However, in this case, despite repeated pseudoscientific statements by RKA heads, the parent Ministry of this commission as well as higher functionaries of the government have been turning a blind eye to the RKA or egging it on with their strategic silence. These two horsemen of the apocalypse are preponderant, but their existence is hardly surprising. It is an open secret that in our education system, one can score well in exams and obtain higher education degrees through rote learning, and all those graduates have no real understanding of the discipline they are supposed to be trained in. Similarly, each political dispensation has its own share of whims and fancies — sometimes based on twisted interpretations of religion, sometimes on unhealthy loyalty to the top leadership, and sometimes on extreme views of economic principles.  The third pallbearer, however, is more disconcerting. The pseudoscientific rhetoric of the RKA is trussed by shoddy research by pliant academics. Take the example of the “cow dung chip”. To prove its claim, the RKA has produced a letter from the Department of Physics of Saurashtra University which talks about an experiment conducted in its lab. This study is not published in any research journal, but on the RKA’s request, the head of the department has issued a letter detailing the experiment. According to the letter, radiation count from a radioactive source gets halved when you introduce a cow dung chip between the source and the Geiger-Muller counter. The experiment lacks comparisons with control. The researchers did not test if the same effect is seen if the cow dung is replaced by any other substance such as wet mud. Without such comparison, they are not in position to claim that cow dung possesses any special property; still they do. They have written that cow dung chips of different shapes and sizes have yielded nearly the same fall in the radiation count, yet they are keen to accord significance to minor variations they observe within the readings. This is a classic example of what happens when researchers decide the conclusions first and then start designing experiments to cherry-pick the data and justify the conclusions. Bending intellectual honesty This is just the tip of the iceberg. If you dig deeper, you will unearth many more of their ilk, including a few from the best Indian research institutes, who are happy to bend their intellectual honesty and produce carefully crafted research papers which are all but declarations of subjection to the ruling ideology. Why? It is true that some of these academics are ideologically driven and their religious bias clouds their scientific judgment. Unfortunately, some of them are truly unaware how cheesy their research appears to the wider scientific community. At the other end of the spectrum, there are also many who see publication of trashy but docile research as a short-cut to power and money. In our university sector, where all appointments are politicised and research grants are extremely hard to come by, this short-cut appears even more attractive. Last, some blame must fall on those who believe such claims. If the majority of the educated class makes its displeasure towards anti-science rhetoric clear, there will be corrective measures from the government. Or have we descended to the level where the party matters more than truth? I hope not. Aniket Sule is Associate Professor, Homi Bhabha Centre for Science Education, Mumbai||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/pallbearers-of-cow-science/article33670963.ece
27 January 2021||January 27 2021 00:00 IST,||A chink in Kremlin’s armour||The violent demonstrations last weekend in more than 100 cities across Russia in support of opposition politician Alexei Navalny were unlike any of the protests in the country under President Vladimir Putin’s rule, say commentators. The rallies, in which thousands have been detained, have been compared with several weekends of public demonstrations since August in neighbouring Belarus calling for the president to resign. There is also a growing sense that the unrest in Russia represents as much support for the 44-year-old anti-corruption crusader as it does opposition to the ruling regime, stemming from falling living standards, compounded by the pandemic. Mr. Navalny himself has been held in detention since his return from Germany on January 17 after recovering from a nerve agent attack that took place last August. If the charges against him are confirmed by the Kremlin-backed judiciary, he could be incarcerated for years. Reactions from the West Western governments, which are at pains to formulate a unified position under the new U.S. administration, something that had proved elusive during the Trump presidency, have called for tough measures against Moscow. The U.S. Director of National Intelligence, Avril Haines, is to probe the chemical weapon attack on Mr. Navalny. National Security Adviser Jake Sullivan has termed Moscow’s crackdown on Mr. Navalny and the protesters as “a violation of human rights”. The European Union (EU)’s stance vis-à-vis Russia continues to reflect deep divisions that characterised its response to the 2014 annexation of Crimea and the subsequent conflict in Ukraine. Polish President Andrzej Duda deployed tough language as he called for sanctions against Russia’s state-owned gas giant Gazprom. He even said that the visit of EU’s High Representative for Foreign Affairs, Josep Borrell, to the country next month would be a “mistake”. Such a hard stance would be viewed in EU capitals as no more than echoing Warsaw’s historic animosity with Moscow. On the contrary, German Chancellor Angela Merkel’s approach has reflected a concern for stability on the bloc’s eastern flanks arising from Russia’s regional ambitions, without jeopardising its energy dependence on Moscow. Meanwhile, the Kremlin is doing everything to appear not unduly concerned over the unrest. Moscow was unfazed when there was large-scale opposition to Mr. Putin’s return to the presidency in 2012, and when opposition candidates were banned from the 2019 elections for the Moscow City Duma. A stronger opposition The crackdown on the opposition is likely to intensify at least until parliamentary elections later this year. President Putin’s ratings have steadily dipped in opinion polls, as has support for his United Russia party. This risks his present supermajority in the Duma. The regime has aptly picked another target, namely Mr. Navalny’s so-called ‘smart voting’ initiative, which encourages the electorate to exercise their right to vote strategically to favour the opposition. The method yielded impressive gains for the opposition in the 2019 municipal polls across Russia, and also in the local elections in Siberia in September where Mr. Navalny was campaigning before he was poisoned. The government has expanded the designation of “foreign agents,” a label introduced in 2012 and aimed to stigmatise NGOs that received funding from overseas. The label now covers foreign-backed media houses, with stringent monitoring of their finances and other activities, and could include dissident contestants. Irrespective of what happens to Mr. Navalny, his courage has galvanised opposition to the Kremlin, prompting a large band of activists to stake their lives to restore the rule of law and basic freedoms for all. Coinciding with his detention was another exposé linking Mr. Putin to an opulent £1 billion development on the Black Sea coast. An end to the uncertainty gripping Russia seems elusive. Garimella Subramaniam is Director - Strategic Initiatives, AgnoShin Tecchnologies||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-chink-in-kremlins-armour/article33670960.ece
27 January 2021||January 27 2021 00:00 IST,||Taxing clunkers||The Centre’s proposed policy to raise road tax on vehicles of a certain age from April 1 next year has the potential to renew a big part of India’s vehicular fleet, reducing air pollution, raising fuel efficiency, and improving safety standards. It has taken the government years to finalise a “tax on clunkers” proposal, under which commercial transport vehicles will have to pay 10%-25% extra on road tax after eight years when renewing the fitness certificate, and, similarly, personal vehicles after 15 years; public transport is given concessions, while hybrids, electrics and farm vehicles are exempt. A higher tax in the most polluted cities, and on diesel engines is also on the cards. States, which enforce motor vehicles law, now have to weigh in on the proposed changes. Unlike similar programmes, such as the post-2008 recession CARS rebate plan in the U.S., India’s scheme relies on penal taxation to persuade owners to scrap their old vehicles, with no cash-for-trade-in arrangement. For this approach to work efficiently, the additional tax proposed should exceed the resale value of the polluting motor, making its disposal more attractive, with enough safeguards to ensure that it is indeed scrapped and recycled under a monitored system. Equity features can be built into the scheme, offering a discount to income-vetted marginal operators such as autorickshaw drivers, on the lines of the 2009 stimulus given under the JNNURM scheme for buses. This should ideally be part of a green post-pandemic recovery plan, with an emphasis on electric vehicles. When the scrappage policy was on the drawing board last year, Road Transport Minister Nitin Gadkari envisioned a reduction in automobile prices of 20% to 30%, driven by recovery of scrap steel, aluminium and plastic, all of which would be recycled. Now that he has a better-scoped plan, the focus must be on building capacities in the organised sector to manage the task of efficient materials recovery. Provisions will have to be built in to see that the sudden demand stimulus available to the auto industry does not disadvantage consumers, particularly those selling junk vehicles. The vehicle registration database for all States also requires updating, to reflect true numbers of old vehicles on the road, eliminating those scrapped; a significant number, more than 15 years old, still run. Such data will help target scrappage policy benefits better. Moreover, many transport vehicles are operated by small entrepreneurs who lack the resources to transition to newer ones and need help as loans and grants. India’s policy to eliminate polluting fuel guzzlers has had a long gestation, and States should see the value of operationalising it as planned. New vehicles and cleaner fuels should help clear the toxic air in cities and towns and make roads safer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/taxing-clunkers/article33670948.ece
27 January 2021||January 27 2021 00:00 IST,||Many vulnerabilities||The much discussed and debated Electronic Voting Machine in India has survived intense scrutiny over its use largely because of one strong reason — the fact that this standalone single-chip device is not connected to any network. This is besides several technological and administrative safeguards to ensure that the machine is not tampered with. With the addition of the Voter Verifiable Paper Audit Trail (VVPAT) to the EVM, “audit-ability” was added to the process even as the machine has suffered glitches, which the Election Commission of India (ECI) has managed to tackle reasonably well. The ECI should definitely seek solutions to make the EVM more robust even as it must reject calls for a return to paper balloting — which experienced malpractices such as ballot stuffing and booth capturing. That being said, the announcement by Chief Election Commissioner Sunil Arora that the ECI is commencing trials of a “remote voting project” is sure to bring back scrutiny. ECI officials have not elaborated or released any detailed document, but have mentioned that the system, being developed by IIT-Madras, uses the blockchain method for “two-way remote voting” at designated centres. Remote voting, as an option, has gained some priority during the COVID-19 pandemic in order to address social distancing. In the U.S., the mail-in ballot system, where registered voters received ballots and returned it via post or dropped it off at secure “drop boxes” or voting centers, was widely used, but this was entirely paper based. The blockchain method implements an online public bulletin board that allows for a linear ordering of data to which a user can only further append data. The board itself is public and available for anyone to read and verify. The technology has been put in use for cryptocurrencies — the Bitcoin blockchain records a list of transactions that can be read to find out who owns which bitcoins without any centralised authority. In the case of a blockchain-based voting system, the voting authority will have to authenticate this bulletin board in which users sign in using cryptographic signatures to register their votes in a ledger. While this system, with its cryptographic features, promises data security and verifiability, the fact that it will depend upon a network and devices could introduce vulnerabilities that are present in any Internet-based system. A draft paper by MIT and Harvard researchers, in November 2020, has raised concerns about the designs of a remote block-chain-based voting system and pointed to serious vulnerabilities in some instances where it was tried out. The paper also points out that beyond the vulnerabilities faced by any Internet-based system, blockchains also introduce issues related to complexity and their management. The ECI would do well to exercise caution before deploying this method in elections, besides subjecting it to a rigorous public appraisal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/many-vulnerabilities/article33670949.ece
27 January 2021||January 27 2021 00:00 IST,||Church to be sold||A public meeting of the members of the combined parishes of San Thome and Good Shepherd was held yesterday evening in the Sullivan’s Garden School, Teynampet, under the presidency of Mr. M.D. Devadoss, Barrister-at-Law, to protest against the sale of the Sam Thome Tamil Church and the Parsonage. The meeting was numerously attended. The Chairman in opening the meeting said that for some time past owing to the difficulty of raising money in the mother countries, the British and the American Missions had been cutting down their grants to the Indian Churches, as a result of which the Madras District Council had arrived at the decision to sell the Santhome Church and the Parsonage, which were in more or less dilapidated condition, and the Mission expressed inability to repair them. He knew that to sell away the Church was a most repugnant thing. He was also aware of the difficulty apart from sentiment they were asked to worship in the English Church. He then asked them to suggest means to tide over the difficulty.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/church-to-be-sold/article33670958.ece
27 January 2021||January 27 2021 00:00 IST,||Saving stranded astronauts||United States Space Agency scientists reported yesterday [January 25, New York] that they have successfully tested in the laboratory a simple new space vehicle concept that astronauts might use to escape from the moon if their lunar module (LM) failed. The vehicle system is called “LES” (lunar escape-to-orbit system) on which two astronauts would ride from the surface of the moon to rendezvous with the command service module orbiting the moon. In one design concept the astronauts would sit atop the LES with no cabin around them, in open space, much like rising from the earth in an unshielded helicopter. The LES would be little more than a flying platform, like the LM. It would have one rocket. The concept has been shown to be successful using a laboratory simulator linked to a computer according to a report presented to the ninth aerospace sciences meeting of the American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics. The 300-pound escape vehicle would use fuel from a crippled LM. The LES could be stored behind a panel on the descent stage of the LM, within reach of an astronaut on the lunar surface.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/saving-stranded-astronauts/article33670959.ece
27 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Cairn threatens Indian asset seizures abroad in tax case||A month after it won an international tribunal award of $1.2 billion in damages against India in the retrospective taxation case, U.K.-based Cairn Energy Plc has threatened that it may be forced to begin attaching Indian assets including bank accounts in different world capitals, unless the government resolves the issue. In a letter to the Indian High Commission in London, which was also sent to the Prime Minister’s Office, the Ministry of External Affairs and the Finance Ministry this week, Cairn’s top leadership has said that the “necessary preparations have been put in place” for the tribunal verdict to be “enforced against Indian assets in numerous jurisdictions around the world” if India fails to discuss paying the amount awarded. Attaching planes, ships According to sources, the assets already under consideration could include Embassy bank accounts, non-diplomatic premises, Air India planes and state-owned ships in several places including the U.K., Holland, France, Canada and the U.S. The move would be akin to similar action against a Pakistan International Airlines (PIA) plane that was seized in Malaysia earlier this month over a dispute with an Irish company, or the seizure of a Venezuelan ship ordered by a court in favour of U.S. company ConocoPhillips in 2018. However, Cairn stressed in the letter, which The Hindu has seen, that it would only consider this extreme option if the Indian government did not respond, as it was under pressure from its shareholders who “expect early resolution”. Cairn also cited clauses in the U.K.-India Bilateral Investment Treaty, the UNCITRAL arbitration rules, and the New York Convention to which India is a signatory, that would be breached if India fails to pay the dues, which reportedly include about $220 million in accrued interest in addition to the $1.2 billion award. ‘Severely damaged’ Cairn Energy CEO Simon Thomson said that the company’s legacy and partnership in India had been “severely damaged over the last seven years as a result of the retrospective tax dispute. “The Government of India has stated on multiple occasions that it would respect the legal process — our international shareholders now expect India to honour the award,” he said in a written response to The Hindu . The three-member tribunal at the Permanent Court of Arbitration (PCA) at The Hague that had delivered its verdict on December 21, 2020 had held unanimously in favour of Cairn and against the Indian government, ruling that the tax levied fell afoul of the bilateral investment pact, and also awarded Cairn $1.2 billion in damages for the tax authorities’ decision to take by force and subsequently sell the company’s shares, and freeze dividend payments as well as tax refunds, to recover the disputed tax dues. Despite several representations to the NDA government, Cairn had been unable to have the penalties reversed and had decided to go to The Hague. ‘Under consideration’ The MEA did not respond to a request for a comment  , but the government is understood to have conveyed to Cairn officials that the “matter is under consideration”. Reacting to the PCA verdict in December, the Finance Ministry had said the government would study the award and all its aspects carefully in consultation with its counsel and ‘take a decision on further course of action, including legal remedies before appropriate fora’. In a similar arbitration case it lost against Vodafone, the government has filed an appeal in a Singapore court to defend the retrospective tax demand on the telecom firm, and officials have stressed that the government’s sovereign right to levy taxes cannot be questioned under bilateral pacts. However, sources said that under the arbitral rules, Cairn Energy could proceed to enforce the award even while India mounts a legal challenge to the ruling.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/cairn-threatens-indian-asset-seizures-abroad-in-tax-case/article33670939.ece
27 January 2021||Washington,||India set to grow 11.5% in 2021: IMF||The IMF on Tuesday projected an 11.5% growth rate for India in 2021, making the country the only major economy to register double-digit growth this year amidst the COVID-19 pandemic. The International Monetary Fund’s growth projections for India reflected a rebound in the economy, which is estimated to have contracted by 8% in 2020 due to the pandemic. China is next with 8.1% growth in 2021 followed by Spain (5.9%) and France (5.5%). The IMF said that in 2020 China is the only major country which registered a positive growth rate of 2.3%. India’s economy, the IMF said, is projected to grow 6.8% in 2022 and that of China by 5.6%. IMF Chief Economist Gita Gopinath, during a virtual press conference to release the update, said that India had a somewhat faster pace of recovery, but cumulatively by the end of 2022, its GDP is expected to be 9% below its pre-pandemic projected level. “We are seeing India come back to its 2019 levels, but it’s still below... Why do we have these upgrades (in IMF’s growth projections for India)... because the activity and mobility particularly came back much faster than expected in India. We have not seen another wave,” Ms. Gopinath said. ‘Faster pace of recovery’ “In fact, we are seeing a very strong decline in cases, which is again a bit different from other parts of the world. So, these factors, including what we’re seeing in terms of high frequency indicators, point to [a] somewhat faster pace of recovery. But again, there is still some distance to go,” she added. Earlier this month, IMF MD Kristalina Georgieva had said India “actually has taken very decisive action, very decisive steps to deal with the pandemic and to deal with the economic consequences of it”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/india-set-to-grow-115-in-2021-imf/article33671041.ece
27 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||GDP to contract 8% in FY21, FICCI survey shows||India’s GDP is expected to contract by 8% in 2020-21, according to the latest round of FICCI’s Economic Outlook Survey. The annual median growth forecast by the industry body is based on responses from leading economists representing industry, banking and financial services sectors. The survey was conducted in January. The median growth forecast for agriculture and allied activities has been pegged at 3.5% for 2020-21. “Agriculture sector has exhibited significant resilience in the face of the pandemic. Higher rabi acreage, good monsoons, higher reservoir levels and strong growth in tractor sales indicate continued buoyancy in the sector,” FICCI stated on the survey findings. However, industry and services sector, which were most severely hit due to the pandemic induced economic fallout, are expected to contract by 10% and 9.2% respectively during 2020-21. The industrial recovery is gaining traction, but the growth is still not broad based. The consumption activity did spur during the festive season as a result of pent-up demand built during the lockdown but sustaining it is important going ahead, the survey said. Besides, it observed that some of the contact intensive service sectors like tourism, hospitality, entertainment, education, and health sector are yet to see normalcy. “The quarterly median forecasts indicate GDP growth to contract by 1.3% in the third quarter of 2020-21. The growth is expected to be in the positive terrain by the fourth quarter with a projection of 0.5% growth,” estimates the survey.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/gdp-to-contract-8-in-fy21-ficci-survey-shows/article33670946.ece
27 January 2021||MUMBAI,||‘Overseas investment by Indian firms dipped to $1.45 bn in Dec.’||Overseas investment by domestic firms fell by over 42% to $1.45 billion in December 2020, according to Reserve Bank data. In the year earlier period, companies in India had invested $2.51 billion in their foreign firms (joint ventures / wholly owned units). In November 2020, the total outward foreign direct investment (OFDI) was of $1.06 billion, down by 27% from a month earlier. Of the total FDI investment by the Indian companies during the month under review, $775.41 million was in the form of equity infusion and $382.91 million was in the form of loan. Investment of $287.63 million was in the form of issuance of guarantee, as per the data. Among major investors, ONGC Videsh Ltd. invested a total of $131.85 million in joint ventures and wholly owned subsidiaries in Myanmar, Russia, Vietnam, Colombia, British Virgin Islands among others. Intas Pharmaceuticals invested $75.22 million in a wholly owned subsidiary in the U.K. and Tata Consultancy Services invested $27.77 million in a wholly owned unit in Ireland.  Among major investors, ONGC Videsh Ltd. invested a total of $131.85 million||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/overseas-investment-by-indian-firms-dipped-to-145-bn-in-dec/article33670937.ece
27 January 2021||Chennai,||Sheenlac Paints eyeing Rs. 1,000 cr. revenue: MD Peter||Sheenlac Paints Ltd. has drawn up a two-pronged strategy to double market share and revenue over the next few years, according to a top official. “Over a period of three years, we are planning to double our market share in decorative paints from 30% to 60% in the southern States and more than double our revenue to Rs. 1,000 crore in five years,” said Sudhir Peter, managing director. Of the total portfolio, decorative paints account for 30% of revenue, wood coatings 40%, industrial coatings 10% and floor coating, 4%. “An increase in the market share of decorative paints to 60% will not bring down the revenue of wood coatings or other products. We will achieve the target by opening more dealerships in tier 3 cites,” he asserted. During FY20, the company had registered a turnover of Rs. 440 crore but this year, the COVID-19-led lockdown had impacted sales in April and May. From June, sales volume had begun recovered and has now crossed the pre-COVID-19 level. The firm expects Q4 to be even better, enabling it to achieve Rs. 500 crore in turnover, he said. “We expect to hit the Rs. 1,000-crore target well before schedule as we are growing at 15% to 16% year-on-year,” he added.  On IPO plans, he said Sheenlac would enter the market only after achieving Rs. 1,000 crore revenue. “We also plan to take the inorganic route for growth and are reviewing takeover offers from a few small players. At this point, we don’t need funds and we are not in a hurry,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/sheenlac-paints-eyeing-rs-1000-cr-revenue-md-peter/article33670941.ece
27 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Data privacy can take form of non-price competition’||Data privacy can take the form of non-price competition and abuse of dominance can lower privacy protection, a study by the Competition Commission of India (CCI) has said. The study also made observations about other non-price factors such as quality of service (QoS), data speeds and bundled offerings, which are likely to be the new drivers of competitive rivalry between service providers in telecom sector in addition to just price. CCI noted that an aspect of data in the context of competition in digital communications market is the conflict between allowing access and protecting consumer privacy. “Privacy can take the form of non-price competition,” it said. Abuse of dominance can take the form of lowering the privacy protection and therefore fall within the ambit of antitrust as low privacy standard implies lack of consumer welfare. On other non-price factors of competition, CCI found that consumers ranked network coverage at the top followed by customer service, tariff packaging and lower tariffs as the most important factors for the preference of a particular network.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/data-privacy-can-take-form-of-non-price-competition/article33670944.ece
27 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||GAIL to unveil pipeline InvIT before split||State-owned gas utility GAIL (India) Ltd. plans to unveil an InvIT of its two gas pipelines between Dahej and Bengaluru ahead of a proposed splitting of the pipeline business from the gas marketing function, sources said. The firm plans to monetise Dahej-Uran-Panvel-Dabhol pipeline and Dabhol-Bengaluru pipeline by setting up an Infrastructure Investment Trust (InvIT), two sources with direct knowledge of the matter said. GAIL will retain majority stake in the pipelines that run from Dahej in Gujarat to Dabhol in Maharashtra and from there to Bengaluru in Karnataka. The InvIT may involve selling 10-20% stake initially, the sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/gail-to-unveil-pipeline-invit-before-split/article33670945.ece
27 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Budget may set higher agri credit target at Rs. 19 lakh crore||With the aim of doubling farmers’ income by 2022, the government is likely to raise farm credit target to about Rs. 19 lakh crore in Budget 2021-22 to be presented on February 1, according to sources. For the current fiscal, the government has set a farm credit target of Rs. 15 lakh crore. The government has been raising credit target for the farm sector every year and this time too, the target is likely to be increased to around Rs. 19 lakh crore for 2021-22, sources said. “Non-banking finance companies (NBFCs) and co-operatives are active in the agriculture credit space. The Nabard refinance scheme will be further expanded. Agriculture credit target for the year 2020-21 has been set up at Rs Rs. lakh crore,” Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman had said while presenting Budget 2020-21. The agricultural credit flow has increased consistently over the years, exceeding the target set for each fiscal. For instance, credit worth Rs. 11.68 lakh crore was given to farmers in 2017-18, higher than the Rs. 10 lakh crore target set for that year, they added. Similarly, crop loans worth Rs. 10.66 lakh crore were disbursed in 2016-17, higher than the credit target of Rs. 9 lakh crore. Credit is a critical input in achieving higher farm output. Institutional credit will also help delink farmers from non-institutional sources where they are compelled to borrow at usurious rates of interest, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/budget-may-set-higher-agri-credit-target-at-rs-19-lakh-crore/article33670942.ece
27 January 2021||BHOPAL,||Reshma walks to a new record||Reshma Patel set a new junior National record on debut, winning the 10000m race walk in 48 minutes 25.90 seconds on the second day of the 18th National Federation Cup junior (under-20) athletics championships here on Tuesday. The 16-year old from Uttarakhand outpaced the more experienced Munita Prajapati and Baljeet Kaur Bajwa in an exciting event that saw all the podium finishers improve on the existing National record of 49:16.51 set by Priyanka Goswami in 2014. In fact, the top-five finishers clocked a better time than the 2015 meet record of 50:41.29, also held by Priyanka. In the 110m hurdles, Vikas Khodke set a new meet record of 14s, two-hundredths of a second ahead of UP’s Usaid Khan.  The results:   Men: 400m: 1. Parveen Kumar (Har, 48.87s), 2. Ansh (Del, 49.32), 3. Lavish Sharma (UP, 49.63); 110m hurdles: 1. Vikas Khodke (Mah, 14.00s), 2. Usaid Khan (UP, 14.02), 3. Nishanthraja (TN, 14.27); Long jump: 1. Jeswin Aldrin (TN, 7.51m), 2. Bhupender Singh (Har, 7.44m), 3. Arya (Kar, 7.19m).   High jump: 1. Piyush Singh Panwar (Har, 2.05m), 2. Abhar Datta (Mah, 2.03m), 3. Deva Karthick (TN, 1.99m); Discus: 1. Ikram Ali Khan (MP, 55.07m), 2. Prince (Har, 52.19m), 3. Harendra Singh (MP, 50.78m); Pole vault: 1. Sunny (Har, 4.60m), 2. Sandeep Kumar (MP, 4.50m).   Women: 400m: 1. Deepanshi (Har, 56.02s), 2. Payal Vohra (Del, 56.44), Himanshi Malik (Har, 57.90); 100m hurdles: 1. Ann Rose Tomy (Ker, 14.45s), 2. Moumita Mondal (WB, 14.56), 3. S. Sriireshma (TN, 14.80); 10000m walk: 1. Reshma Patel (Utk, 48:25.90), 2. Baljeet Kaur Bajwa (Pun, 49:00.27), 3. Munita Prajapati (UP, 49:13.86); Long jump: 1. Ancy Sojan (Ker, 6.12m), 2. Sharvari Parulekar (Mah, 5.75m), 3. Keisha Modi (5.73m); Discus: 1. Garima (Har, 45.91m), 2. Pooja (Har, 45.42m), 3. Siddhi Shailendra Karan (Mah, 40.49m); Pole vault: 1. Pooja (Har, 3.40m), 2. Jyopti (Har, 3.00m), 3. Maisuri Timbadiya (Guj, 3.00m).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/reshma-walks-to-a-new-record/article33671088.ece
27 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Shruti Ahlawat on the right track||Indian women’s tennis is looking for young champions with potential, as there is a lot of scope to excel at the international level. Fourteen-year-old Shruti Ahlawat — who won the title on her maiden appearance in the ITF under-18 circuit on Saturday, winning eight matches without dropping a set — provides encouraging signs for a bright future. After training with coach Saurabh Sharma, Shruti had moved to another efficient coach Pundreek Chaturvedi for about a year. “Shruti has tremendous potential. She has the calibre to play tennis at the highest international level. I hope she starts playing grade-A events and junior Grand Slams soon,” said Chaturvedi, who runs a coaching centre at the New Era Public School in Dwarka. Dictating points Shruti is a tough player and strokes with authority, dictating the points. After being with her on the European circuit about a year ago, coach Namita Bal had observed that Shruti was “arguably the most versatile player in her age category” with an insatiable “hunger to win”. “Her discipline and motivation in each session make her stand apart. Her desire and hunger to improve her game day by day is incredible,” said Chaturvedi. Chaturvedi has trained two-time National champion Riya Bhatia and has also worked with another quality player, Bhuvana Kalva, among the women. Conceding that it was a long journey ahead, Chaturvedi said that Shruti would continue to improve her “skill, shot making and fitness levels”, to keep getting better. Europe stints Together with his brother Parantap in Germany, Chaturvedi also arranges practice and training sessions for players in Europe, giving them a chance to compete in the European tennis league. Shruti will definitely stand to gain from all the exposure that she can get. The opening of competitions, both at the national and international level is the best thing to happen to players of the calibre of Shruti, who offer a bright ray of hope for Indian tennis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/shruti-ahlawat-on-the-right-track/article33671215.ece
27 January 2021||January 27 2021 00:00 IST,||Motivation comes from what cannot be measured||The first man to play 100 Test matches, Colin Cowdrey, was 41 when he was recalled to a struggling England team to take on Dennis Lillee and Jeff Thomson, that most dangerous pair of fast bowlers. Cowdrey’s reputation was long established, he had nothing left to prove, and chances were he would only succeed in chipping away at the wall of greatness he was encased in. Why did he agree to tour? According to the writer Simon Barnes, “Cowdrey had clearly been asked the question many times, but his reply came as fresh-minted, his eyes lighting up: ‘The challenge! I couldn’t resist it! But that’s the thing about sport — you have to be perpetually two years old.’ “That’s how great athletes think,” says Barnes, “They know there will always be a last dragon, but they never recognise him when they meet. They just say good morning and carry on.” Saying good morning and carrying on in Chennai as India take on England will be the most experienced and successful fast bowler in the game: Jimmy Anderson. He is 38, and this is his 18th year as a Test match bowler. In Sri Lanka a few days ago he claimed six for 40 in an innings where the rest of England’s bowlers took four wickets for 339. What he has dropped in pace he has gained in subtlety and cunning. “You give him a coconut,” said Michael Holding who knows a thing or two about bowling, “he’ll swing it.” Anderson comes to India as the only fast bowler with over 600 Test wickets, and the only one to have played as many as 157 Tests. One of the highlights of the home series is likely to be the sight (sadly, only on television as of now) of a great fast bowler unveiling his craft for yet another generation of hopefuls. Sachin Tendulkar spoke recently of a “reverse reverse swing” that Anderson has added to his armoury. If that confuses the reader, imagine what it will do to the batsman! England’s policy of rotation means that we might not see him in all the Tests; he might alternate with Stuart Broad. In the 120 Tests they have played together, this pair has claimed over 900 wickets. Anderson’s greatness is not in doubt, nor is his focus; he remains fiercely competitive. After taking his 600th wicket, he was already looking forward to the 700th. That’s how great athletes think. The next wicket, the next hurdle, the next race, that’s the important one. Everything appears impossible till it is actually done. Still, to look forward when you could be forgiven for relaxing and repeating stories of the past to willing listeners takes something special. You have to be perpetually two years old. How does Anderson do it? How does he keep his motivation strong through injuries, loss of form, selectorial mishaps, fatigue, realisation that there is more to life and the temptations of the comfort of a family life? What motivates a sportsman is a question often asked, especially towards the end of an illustrious career when greatness is behind the performer and (usually) what lies ahead cannot match what went before. Love for what you do is a motivator, as is public adulation. But you can tire of love while adulation can get on your nerves. At a dinner on the eve of Sachin Tendulkar’s 200th Test match, I asked the legend what had made him carry on playing when he had nothing to prove. His answer, although along expected lines, was still a peep into the mind of a competitor. “Playing for India is the greatest motivation,” he said. Most players are happy to say on the occasion of their 100th Test that it is “an honour.” The latest to join the list, Australian off spinner Nathan Lyon said, “It is very humbling.” Some self-aware athletes speak of that “one talent which is death to hide” (to borrow from the poet Milton), the one thing they know to the exclusion of everything else. After all, not all (potentially) great players have the figures to show for it. Longevity Longevity is an important element in bestowing that title on a sportsman. Any player can be ‘great’ for one series, one Test, one day, or even one incident, but it takes someone special to perform at the highest level for close to two decades. Great performers know that enduring motivation comes from what cannot be measured. They do, therefore they are. It is what separates them from others. One of the pictures I have at my table is that of the artist Matisse late in life sitting up on his bed, working on a sculpture. He doesn’t need to do it, but he has to. I look at it and I understand Jimmy Anderson a little better.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/motivation-comes-from-what-cannot-be-measured/article33671029.ece
27 January 2021||HYDERABAD,||Jyothi Sai Krishna, Shaik Khaleel hit double centuries||Double centuries by N. Jyothi Sai Krishna (207, 229b, 18x4, 8x6) for Postal Cricket Club and Shaik Khaleel (212, 229b, 18x4, 8x6) for Sri Shyam Cricket Club highlighted the A2-Division two-day league championship matches here on Tuesday. Unsavoury incident Meanwhile, there was a commotion in the match between Deccan Wanderers and Galaxy Cricket Club. The trouble began when a rival group of the Wanderers club walked onto the ground claiming that they had a letter from top HCA officials (according to a video on social media) to stop the match as the incumbent secretary of Wanderers, Riaz Qureshi, didn’t have valid papers to run the club. However, Mr. Qureshi countered them stating that he had all the papers certified by the HCA officials. After some heated arguments, with the police also called in, the match which was stopped just before the lunch break continued.  The scores:   A-2 Div. (two-day) league: First day: Telangana 69 in 22.4 overs (Kamal Yadav 46, Sai 3/17) lost to Sayi Satya 72/2 in 21.5 overs (Jai Nag 42 n.o.).   Pasha Beedies 213 in 79.5 Overs (K. Shreyas Goud 32, Md Zakaria 41, C. Aadhitya Reddy 41, K. Sundesh 50, Vansh Sharma 3/19, Aarya Udupa 3/35) vs Balaji Colts 47/1 in 12 overs.   Postal 452 in 88.5 overs (Md. Shakeer Ahmed 77, N. Jyothi Sai Krishna 207, V. Bhargav Anand Goud 50, M. Suresh 32, B.H. Prem Charan 3/68) vs Medak District.   Sri Shyam CC 385 in 89.4 overs (Shaik Khaleel 212, Syed 54, Bharath 3/73) vs Vijay Hanuman 13/0 in 3 overs.   Visaka 214 in 85.3 overs (Md. Farees Shareef 52, M. Kshitij Reddy 39, P. Jagadish 38, K. Sri Harsha 3/44, B. Jeevan 3/11) vs Classic 75/0 in 13 overs (S. Harshit 44 batting, S. Raghavendra 30 batting).   Marredpally CC 192 in 48.4 overs (K. Arjun Reddy 46, Shafi Ali 72, Ghazi Abbas 4/71, Karthikeyan 4/23) lost to Hyd Wanderers 196/0 in 33.3 overs (Varun Goud 112, Ghazi Abbas 77 n.o.).   Galaxy 134 in 47.1 overs (Amit Kulkarni 34, Kranthi Kiran 5/22) vs Deccan Wanderers 72/1 in 28 overs (Jawad Khan 46).   Oxford Blues 269 in 89.4 overs (Naman Agarwal 113, Yashaswi 56, Shiva Srikanth Naidu 5/38) vs Deccan Blues.   Saleemnagar 218 in 58 Overs (Ibrahim 57, Hemanth 41, Avik 5/55) vs Hyd Titans 76/1 in 25 overs (Jainath 41 batting).   Osmania 274 in 69.4 Overs (Ashrit 35, Vishu 40, Vinay 31, Anish Rao 84, Manikanth 34, Rachit 3/36, Ramna 3/38) vs Yadav Dairy 61/3 in18.1 overs.   PJLCC 260 in 64 overs (Hussain Liakhath 85, K. Raghavendra 63, C. Tarun Kumar 3/31, Sathvik Pujish 3/55, Tibrewal Nandesh 3/57) vs Future Star 10/3 in 9 overs.   Agarwal Sr 126 in 50.1 overs (Noman Ahmed 44, Shaik Azhar 4/25, Appa Rao 3/21) vs Khammam Dist 127/2 in 24.1 overs (Jai Prakash 76 n.o.).   Mahbubnagar Dist 292 in 64.2 overs (Abid Hussain 106, Sai Kumar Yadav 79, Sachit Kaundinya 4/42) vs Green Turf 109/9 in 45 overs (Syed Afzal 53).   Lords CC 225 in 54.5 overs (Md. Azheruddin 72, Sohail Ali Khan 37) lost to Young Master 228/2 in 36.2 overs (Aaron George 73, S.M. Tanuj 115).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/jyothi-sai-krishna-shaik-khaleel-hit-double-centuries/article33671367.ece
27 January 2021||January 27 2021 00:00 IST,||Aparajith, Shahrukh power TN||B. Aparajith (52 n.o., 45b, 3x4, 2x6) and M. Shahrukh Khan (40 n.o., 19b, 5x4, 2x6) powered Tamil Nadu to a five-wicket win over Himachal Pradesh in the quarterfinals of the Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy at the Motera Stadium in Ahmedabad on Tuesday. Chasing 136 for victory, Himachal pacer Vaibhav Arora had put his side on top, cleaning up the top order with three quick wickets in the PowerPlay. Tamil Nadu was struggling at 66 for five in the 13th over after Dinesh Karthik had perished. Shahrukh, who joined Aparajith, turned things around in contrasting style. While Aparajith was solid and steady, Shahrukh took the attack to the opposition. Ironically, it was Arora’s final over that turned the match on its head as Aparajith and Shahrukh smashed two boundaries each as 18 came off the 15th over. Aparajith made Himachal pay the price for missing a simple run out when he was on seven and dropping him in the deep when he was on 24. Fittingly, Aparajith finished the match in style with a six over midwicket that also brought up his half-century. Sonu strikes Earlier, asked to bat first, Himachal could only muster 135 for nine, thanks to an impressive bowling effort from young medium-pacer Sonu Yadav (3/14). Himachal got off to a brisk start as opener Abhimanyu Rana feasted on some loose deliveries from Sandeep Warrier and hit three fours. However, Tamil Nadu pulled things back as off-spinner Aparajith and left-arm spinner R. Sai Kishore kept it tight. Punjab beats Karnataka  In the first quarterfinal, defending champion Karnataka crashed to an embarrassing nine-wicket loss against Punjab. After bundling out Karnataka for 87, Punjab got home with 7.2 overs to spare.  The scores: Karnataka 87 in 17.2 overs (Siddarth Kaul 3/15) lost to Punjab 89/1 in 12.4 overs (Prabhsimran Singh 49 n.o., Mandeep Singh 35 n.o.)   Himachal 135/9 in 20 overs (Rishi Dhawan 35 n.o., Sonu Yadav 3/14) lost to Tamil Nadu 141/5 in 17.5 overs (B. Aparajith 52 n.o., Shahrukh Khan 40 n.o., Vaibhav Arora 3/30)   Wednesday's matches: Haryana vs. Baroda, noon; Bihar vs. Rajasthan, 7 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/aparajith-shahrukh-power-tn/article33671176.ece
27 January 2021||Bangkok,||Sindhu, Srikanth look to turn the tide||P.V. Sindhu and K. Srikanth will hope to shrug off the disappointments of the last two weeks as they gear up for the highly-competitive HSBC BWF World Tour Finals, beginning here on Wednesday. Sindhu has been clubbed in Group-B alongside top-ranked Tai Tzu Ying of Chinese Taipei and home favourites Ratchanok Intanon and Pornpawee Chochuwong. Sindhu's comeback after the coronavirus-induced break was not as good as she hoped. Srikanth, meanwhile, has been clubbed in Group-B with Denmark's Anders Antonsen, Chinese Taipei's Wang Tzu Wei and Hong Kong's NG Ka Long Angus. Srikanth had pulled out of the first Thailand Open and ahead of the second round due to a calf muscle pull, while he was forced to withdraw after the opening round last week after his roommate B. Sai Praneeth tested positive for COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sindhu-srikanth-look-to-turn-the-tide/article33671027.ece
27 January 2021||January 27 2021 00:00 IST,||Punjab dethrones Karnataka||A horror batting show saw Karnataka crash to an embarrassing nine-wicket loss against Punjab in its Syed Mushtaq Ali T20 Trophy quarterfinal clash at Ahmedabad on Tuesday. Karnataka, the defending champion, was bundled out for a paltry 87. Punjab had little trouble chasing it down, reaching home with 7.2 overs to spare. Karnataka did only marginally better than its lowest ever total in the tournament — 66 against Goa at Visakhapatnam in 2014. Poor shot selection brought Karnataka’s swift downfall. Skipper Karun Nair (12) was the first to go, getting a leading edge to mid-off. Much depended on Devdutt Padikkal (11), but the southpaw let the side down with an ugly swipe at fast bowler Siddharth Kaul. A smart catch by Mayank Markande, in the same over, removed Pavan Deshpande for a duck. B.R. Sharath (2) and Shreyas Gopal (13) edged deliveries outside off, while J. Suchith (8) glanced one down leg to the wicketkeeper. Aniruddha Joshi (27, 34b, 2x4) hung around, before attempting a wild slog and losing his stumps to spinner Markande. The Punjab bowling attack stuck to a good line and reaped the rewards. Kaul, who took a hat-trick when the two sides met in the group stage, returned figures of three for 15. Fellow pacers Sandeep Sharma, Arshdeep Singh and Ramandeep Singh took two wickets each. Markande (one for 12) impressed with his control and flight variations. Punjab overcame a mild stutter when opener Abhishek Sharma’s cut was pouched by Padikkal in the first over. Prabhsimran Singh (49 n.o., 37b, 2x4, 3x6) and captain Mandeep Singh (35 n.o., 33b, 1x4, 1x6) took over, ensuring smooth passage to the semifinal round. Turning it around B. Aparajith (52 n.o., 45b, 3x4, 2x6) and M. Shahrukh Khan (40 n.o., 19b, 5x4, 2x6) powered Tamil Nadu to a five-wicket win over Himachal Pradesh in the second quarterfinal. Chasing 136 for victory, Tamil Nadu was struggling at 66 for five in the 13th over when Aparajith and Shahrukh turned things around. Sonu strikes Earlier, asked to bat first, Himachal could only muster 135 for nine, thanks to an impressive bowling effort from young medium-pacer Sonu Yadav (3/14). Only skipper Rishi Dhawan, with an unbeaten 35, made a meaningful contribution.  The scores: Karnataka 87 in 17.2 overs (Siddarth Kaul 3/15) lost to Punjab 89/1 in 12.4 overs (Prabhsimran Singh 49 n.o., Mandeep Singh 35 n.o.)   Himachal 135/9 in 20 overs (Rishi Dhawan 35 n.o., Sonu Yadav 3/14) lost to Tamil Nadu 141/5 in 17.5 overs (B. Aparajith 52 n.o., Shahrukh Khan 40 n.o., Vaibhav Arora 3/30).    Wednesday’s matches  Haryana vs. Baroda, noon Bihar vs. Rajasthan, 7 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/punjab-dethrones-karnataka/article33671039.ece
27 January 2021||January 27 2021 00:00 IST,||Karun’s long run drought||Karun Nair’s troubles with the bat continued, with the Karnataka skipper finishing the Syed Mushtaq Ali T20 Trophy with only 93 runs in six matches.  Karun has endured a long lean patch — his last century across domestic competitions for Karnataka came in the 2017-18 Ranji Trophy semifinal against Vidarbha. Things were looking up at the start of the 2019-20 season when Karun emerged as the highest run-getter of the Duleep Trophy. But this good form withered when he turned up for the State team. That Karun regularly takes up captaincy duties when Manish Pandey is unavailable — as he has done in this tournament — only makes his failures more glaring.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/karuns-long-run-drought/article33671114.ece
27 January 2021||Hyderabad:,||Mirana fancied for Thunder Plate||Trainer M. Srinivas Reddy’s ward Mirana, who ran second to Lombardy, is in good form and should make amends in the Thunder Plate, the chief event of Wednesday’s (Jan. 27) races. Rails will be announced one hour before the first race.  FIRE PLATE (1,200m), rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III), 1.10 p.m.: 1. Chuckit (10) Trevor 60, 2. Top Saga (3) Md. Ismail 60, 3. Four One Four (6) Afroz Khan 59, 4. Green Turf (1) Mukesh Kumar 58, 5. Blazing Jupiter (8) Ak hay Kumar 55.5, 6. Southern Lady (4) Suraj Narredu 54, 7. Blink Of An Eye (9) Abhay Singh 53, 8. Thrill Of Power (11) Koushik 52.5, 9. Blissful (5) Nakhat Singh 51, 10. Beauty On Parade (7) R. Manish 50.5 and 11. Farmville (2) Ajeeth Kumar 50.5.  1. SOUTHERN LADY,   2. CHUCKIT,   3. BLAZING JUPITER   DANCER PLATE (1,100m), (Terms) Maiden, 3-y-o only (Cat. II), 1.40: 1. Ambitious Star (8) Nakhat Singh 56, 2. Bruno (2) Ashad Asbar 56, 3. Dominator (13) Santosh Raj N R 56, 4. Dream Jewel (5) Abhay Singh 56, 5. Special Effort (6) R. Laxmikanth 56, 6. The Prospect (11) A. A. Vikrant 56, 7. Able Love (7) Kuldeep Singh 54.5, 8. Allah Rakhi (4) Koushik 54.5, 9. Joy O Joy (1) Surya Prakash 54.5, 10. Keystone (10) Akshay Kumar 54.5, 11. Moonlight Ruby (3) Suraj Narredu 54.5, 12. Reining Queen (14) G. Naresh 54.5, 13. Siri (9) B.R. Kumar 54.5 and 14. Total Darc (12) Afroz Khan 54.5.  1. MOONLIGHT RUBY,   2. THE PROSPECT,   3. BRUNO   NORTHERN PLATE (Div. II) (1,400m), Maiden, 4-y-o & upward, rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III), 2.10: 1. Beautiful Luv (5) Akshay Kumar 60, 2. Team Player (4) B.R. Kumar 59, 3. Lightning Pearl (10) Ajeeth Kumar 58, 4. Look Of Love (6) Trevor 57.5, 5. Belle Springs (1) Afroz Khan 57, 6. Star Dancer (11) Neeraj 56.5, 7. Kapell Bruke (9) A. A. Vikrant 56, 8. Lorena (2) R. Manish 56, 9. Detonator (8) Ashad Asbar 55.5, 10. Southern Saffron (3) Gopal Singh 55 and 11. Sugar An Spice (7) R. S. Jodha 55.  1. BEAUTIFUL LUV,   2. LOOK OF LOVE,   3. STAR DANCER   OLYMPIC PLATE (1,100m), rated 40 to 65 (Cat. II), 2. 45: 1. Celeritas (7) Akshay Kumar 60, 2. Sporting Smile (2) B.R. Kumar 59, 3. City Of Blossom (5) P. Gaddam 58.5, 4. Asteria (4) G. Naresh 58, 5. Max (11) Abhay Singh 58, 6. Incredulous (13) R.S. Jodha 57, 7. Loch Stella (9) C.P. Bopanna 56.5, 8. Wah Ms Zara (3) Trevor 55.5, 9. Mind Reader (1) Nakhat Singh 54.5, 10. Xfinity (8) Afroz Khan 54.5, 11. Bedford (10) Suraj Narredu 54, 12. Flamingo Fame (6) Santosh Raj N R 54 and 13. N R I Magic (12) Ashad Asbar 54.  1. XFINITY,   2. BEDFORD,   3. CELERITAS   NORTHERN PLATE (Div. I) (1,400m), Maiden 4-y-o & upward, rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III), 3.20: 1. Unstoppable (7) Deepak Singh 60, 2. Advance Guard (3) Suraj Narredu 58.5, 3. N R I Touch (1) Akshay Kumar 57.5, 4. Berkeley (2) Afroz Khan 56.5, 5. Viking Sun (11) Mukesh Kumar 56.5, 6. Melting Ice (8) Nakhat Singh 55.5, 7. Thunder Road (10) Trevor 55.5, 8. Queen Blossom (6) Santosh Raj N R 55, 9. Moringa (9) R. Laxmikanth 54.5, 10. Sputnic (4) A. A. Vikrant 54.5 and 11. Cephalonia (5) G. Naresh 53.  1. ADVANCE GUARD,   2. N R I TOUCH,   3. UNSTOPPABLE   THUNDER PLATE (1,600m), rated 40 to 65 (Cat. II), 3.55: 1. Egyptian Prince (10) Surya Prakash 60, 2. Guiding Force (13) Santosh Raj N R 58.5, 3. Spicy Star (7) Mukesh Kumar 56.5, 4. That’s My Magic (1) B.R. Kumar 56, 5. Red Snaper (2) A.A. Vikrant 55, 6. Call Of The Blue (4) Koushik 54.5, 7. Ryhthm Selection (5) Afroz Khan 54.5, 8. Lockhart (12) Ashad Asbar 54, 9. Miss Marvellous (14) G. Naresh 53.5, 10. Super Angel (11) Akshay Kumar 53, 11. Cincia Azzurra (3) Kuldeep Singh 52, 12. Mirana (6) Trevor 51.5, 13. The Special One (9) Abhay Singh 51.5 and 14. Downtown Gal (8) Neeraj 50.  1. MIRANA,   2. SUPER ANGEL,   3. DOWNTOWN GAL   TRIAL PLATE (Div. II) (1,400m), 5-y-o & upward, rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III), 4.30: 1. Dancing Doll (11) Mukesh Kumar 60.5, 2. Explosive (4) Trevor 60.5, 3. Once More (10) Nakhat Singh 60.5, 4. Gazebo (12) B.R. Kumar 59.5, 5. Maxwell (8) Akshay Kumar 58, 6. Tiger Of The Sea (1) Surya Prakash 56, 7. Starwalker (6) Abhay Singh 55.5, 8. Promiseofhappines (5) A.A. Vikrant 54, 9. Wood Bridge (3) Md. Ismail 53.5, 10. Glendale (9) Afroz Khan 50.5, 11. Let It Be Me (7) G. Naresh 50.5 and 12. Secret Command (2) Santosh Raj N R 50.5.  1. MAXWELL,   2. GLENDALE,   3. LET IT BE ME   TRIAL PLATE (Div. I) (1,400m), 5-y-o & upward, rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III), 5.05: 1. Ashwa Arjun (1) Abhay Singh 60.5, 2. Dunkirk (10) Ashad Asbar 60.5, 3. N R I Vision (6) Akshay Kumar 60.5, 4. Alliston (13) G.Naresh 60, 5. Solo Winner (4) Santosh Raj N R 58.5, 6. Blickfang (7) Mukesh Kumar 56.5, 7. Barbosella (8) Ajeeth Kumar 55, 8. Platinum Claasz (5) A. A. Vikrant 55, 9. Brisbane (11) Surya Prakash 53.5, 10. Diesis Dream (2) Md. Ismail 51, 11. Sacred Lamp (12) Kuldeep Singh 51, 12. Rhine (3) B. R. Kumar 50.5 and 13. Sun Dancer (9) Afroz Khan 50.  1. BRISBANE,   2. N R I VISION,   3. BLICKFANG  Day’s best: MIRANA  Double: MOONLIGHT RUBY   — MAXWELL  Jackpot: 4, 5, 6, 7 & 8. Mini jackpot: (i) 2, 3, 4 & 5; (ii) 5, 6, 7 & 8. Treble: (i) 1, 2 & 3; (ii) 3, 4 & 5; (ii) 6, 7 & 8. Tanala: All races.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mirana-fancied-for-thunder-plate/article33671070.ece
27 January 2021||SYDNEY,||Unable to identify those who abused Indian players: CA tells ICC||Cricket Australia (CA) has told the International Cricket Council (ICC) that it has been unable to identify spectators who racially abused Indian players during the Sydney Test and the six who were ejected from the stands were not the real culprits, a media report stated on Tuesday.  The Age reported that the CA investigators “have cleared the six men ejected from their seats during the Sydney Test of racially abusing Mohammed Siraj.” CA had sent the findings to the ICC after a probe. The ICC had given the body 14 days to lodge a report. “CA, which is awaiting a final report from NSW Police, is satisfied that the six men who were walked out of the lower tier of the Clive Churchill and Brewongle stand by police on the fourth afternoon of the Test did not make remarks of a racial nature to players,” the newspaper said. “The report (of CA to the ICC) says while they believed players had been racially abused, CA investigators were unable to identify the culprits,” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/unable-to-identify-those-who-abused-indian-players-ca-tells-icc/article33671072.ece
27 January 2021||Kolkata,||Former India goalie Prasanta passes away||Former India goalkeeper Prasanta Dora, who also played for the big three clubs of Kolkata football, passed away on Tuesday after losing the battle with ‘Hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis’, a rare blood disease. Prasanta was 45 and is survived by wife and a son. The whole football fraternity of the city came together to help out the ailing footballer, who developed the condition sometime in November, according to his family. Prasanta’s problem was diagnosed late and his condition became critical earlier in the month when he was shifted to Tata Medical Centre, that specialises in cancer treatment, informed his elder brother and his predecessor in the national team, Hemanta Dora. Prasanta made his national debut in 1999 against Thailand in the Olympic qualifiers. He donned the national colours again in tournaments like SAFF Cup and SAF Games and earned a total of five international caps. Representing top clubs Prasanta also represented Bengal in the Santosh Trophy. After turning out for clubs like Tollygunge Agragami and Calcutta Port Trust, the big break came in 1999 when he joined East Bengal. In later years he played with the other city giants Mohun Bagan and Mohammedan Sporting. He took to coaching youngsters after his retirement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/former-india-goalie-prasanta-passes-away/article33671074.ece
27 January 2021||Los Angeles,||Harden’s late burst helps Nets overcome Heat||James Harden believes the best is yet to come after producing a late burst of scoring to lead Brooklyn Nets to a 98-85 victory over Miami Heat on Monday. Harden — who joined the Nets in a blockbuster trade from Houston earlier this month — produced a dazzling burst of fourth-quarter scoring as Brooklyn finally overpowered an under-strength Miami team. The 2018 NBA Most Valuable Player poured on 16 of his 20 points in the final period to lead the Brooklyn scoring alongside Kevin Durant, who also had 20. Harden and Durant’s contributions in the fourth quarter proved decisive, with the duo making a succession of three-pointers as Brooklyn reeled off 15 points. Kyrie Irving had 16 points, while Joe Harris finished with 12 and DeAndre Jordan 11. The victory improved the Nets’ season record to 11-8 in the Eastern Conference. But it was Harden who caught the eye with his game-changing late cameo that swung the contest in Brooklyn's favor. Nets coach Steve Nash showered praise on Brooklyn’s star new recruit. “He was great,” Nash said of Harden.  Durant has now scored 20 points or more in 14 straight games. Elsewhere on Monday, LeBron James conjured another virtuoso performance for Los Angeles Lakers in a 115-108 victory over the Cleveland Cavaliers in Ohio. James finished with 46 points, eight rebounds and six assists to subdue his former club. Lakers back on top The win nudged the Lakers back into first place in the Western Conference standings, with 14 wins and four defeats. Los Angeles Clippers is second on 13-4.  The results:   Nets 98 bt Heat 85; Cavaliers 108 lost to Lakers 115; Detroit Pistons 119 bt Philadelphia 76ers 104; Mavericks 113 lost to Nuggets 117; Bulls 103 lost to Celtics119; Warriors 130 bt Timberwolves 108; Trail Blazers 122 lost to Thunder 125; Magic 117 bt Hornets 108; Pacers 129 bt Raptors 114.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/hardens-late-burst-helps-nets-overcome-heat/article33671082.ece
27 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Better late than never: O.M. Nambiar||For 88-year-old O.M. Nambiar, the man who nurtured one of India’s greatest athletes P.T. Usha, the announcement of his name in the list of this year’s Padma Shri awardees is a case of “better late than never”. “I feel very happy for this award though it could have come many years back. Better late than never,” Nambiar, who is battling Parkinson’s, said from his home in Kozikhode. Usha was conferred the Padma Shri in 1985 while Nambiar, presented the Dronacharya that year, had to wait for another 36 years to receive the nation’s fourth highest civillian honour. Satisfaction “Every medal won by my trainees gives me immense satisfaction. I consider my Dronacharya Award, Best Asian Coach Award and now Padma Shri as recognition of my hard work and dedication,” Nambiar said. Besides Usha, some of the international medal-winning athletes he coached include Shiny Wilson and Vandana Rao.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/better-late-than-never-om-nambiar/article33671485.ece
27 January 2021||BENGALURU:,||Lagarde shows his class in Kingfisher Ultra Derby Bangalore||Lagarde (Akshay Kumar up) won the Kingfisher Ultra Derby Bangalore, the stellar attraction of the races held here on Tuesday (Jan. 26). The winner is owned by Mr. Rama Seshu Eyunni, Mr. P. Prabhakar Reddy & Five Stars Shipping Co. Private Limited represented by. Mr. K.N. Dhunjibhoy & Mr. Z.K. Dhunjibhoy. The winner is trained by S. Attaollahi. Lagarde, who took a smart jump, was racing third for the first 300m before going ahead. He then led the field all the way to give Akshay his first derby victory.  1. SADDLE UP CUP (1,200m), rated 00 to 20, 6-y-o & over: TIGER RETURNS (Rayan) 1, Nostradamus (S. John) 2, Glorious Days (A. Imran) 3 and Azeemki Princess (T.S. Jodha) 4. 3-1/2, 1 and 1-3/4. 1m, 13.45s. Rs. 30 (w), 16, 16 and 22 (p), SHP: 44, THP: 47, FP: 213, Q: 149, Trinella: 751 and 259, Exacta: 13,419 and 3,834. Favourite: Tiger Returns. Owner: Mr. Dilip R. Ranka. Trainer: Imtiaz Khan.  2. TOTALIZATOR CUP (Div. I) , (1,400m), rated 15 to 35: SHERWIN (S. John) 1, Benignity (Chetan K) 2, Niche Cannabis (Trevor) 3 and Black Whizz (S. Shareef) 4. Not run: Dynamical. 1-1/4, 1-1/4 and 5. 1m, 26.50s. Rs. 17 (w), 12, 19 and 17 (p), SHP: 67, THP: 49, FP: 490, Q: 117, Trinella: 1,306 and 606. Exacta: (carried over). Favourite: Sherwin. Owner: United Racing & Bloodstock Breeders Ltd. Trainer: Arjun Mangalorkar.  3. INDIAN REPUBLIC TROPHY (1,400m), maiden 3-y-o only, (Terms): PECANWOOD (Antony) 1, Kensington (S. John) 2, Scintillating Lass (Suraj) 3 and Devils Magic (Srinath) 4. Not run: Turkoman. Snk, 1-3/4 and 5. 1m, 26.29s. Rs. 69 (w), 15, 15 and 14 (p), SHP: 47, THP: 47, FP: 739, Q: 268, Trinella: 722 and 206, Exacta: 1,953 and 910. Favourite: Scintillating Lass. Owner: Rajagiri Rubber & Produce Co. Ltd. Trainer: Arjun Mangalorkar.  4. T.B. HANUMANTHARAJ MEMORIAL TROPHY (1,400m), rated 30 to 50: CAVALLINI (Akshay Kumar) 1, Watchmystars (Suraj) 2, Sea Of Cortez (Likith Appu) 3 and Twinkle Feet (T.S. Jodha) 4. Not run: Speaking Of Stars. 5-1/2, 3/4 and 3/4. 1m, 25.09s. Rs. 52 (w), 18, 10 and 25 (p), SHP: 33, THP: 57, FP: 186, Q: 76, Trinella: 855 and 419, Exacta: 22,489 and 9,638. Favourite: Watchmystars. Owner: Mr. Arun Alagappan. Trainer: Irfan Ghatala.  5. KUMARARAJAH M.A.M.MUTHIAH TROPHY (1,200m), rated 45 to 65: ALPHA (P.P. Dhebe) 1, Wings Of Desire (P.S. Chouhan) 2, Regal Music (S. Mubarak) 3 and Hokkaido (Suraj) 4. Nk, 2-1/2 and Nose. 1m, 12.75s. Rs. 544 (w), 143, 35 and 23 (p), SHP: 71, THP: 56, FP: 37,481, Q: 2,161, Trinella: (carried over), Exacta: (carried over). Favourite: Hokkaido. Owners: Mr. Hemant Dharnidharka & Sohna Stud Farm Pvt Ltd rep by. Mr. Gautam Thapar & Sultan Singh. Trainer: Neil Darashah.  6. KINGFISHER ULTRA DERBY BANGALORE (2,400m), 4-y-o, (Terms): LAGARDE (Kingda Ka-La Terrasse) Akshay Kumar 1, SOVEREIGN LEGEND (Win Legend-Ratham) Sandesh 2, FOREST FLAME  (Leitir Mor-Memory Bay) Trevor 3 and ANTIBES (Multidimensional-Fond Fantasy) S. John 4. 1-1/2, Nose and 2-1/4. 2m, 32.21s. Rs. 39 (w), 15, 27 and 13 (p), SHP: 74, THP: 13, FP: 794, Q: 334, Trinella: 1,218 and 462, Exacta: 6,276 and 3,867. Favourite: Forest Flame. Owners: Mr. Rama Seshu Eyunni, Mr. P. Prabhakar Reddy & Five Stars Shipping Co. Pvt Ltd rep by. Mr. K.N. Dhunjibhoy & Mr. Z.K. Dhunjibhoy. Trainer: S. Attaollahi.  7. MYSORE RACE CLUB TROPHY (1,600m), rated 75 & over: KNIGHT TEMPLAR (Trevor) 1, Automatic (Suraj) 2, Roma Victor (Akshay Kumar) 3 and Akita Pro (S. Shareef) 4. 1, 1-1/4 and 3-3/4. 1m, 37.18s. Rs. 15 (w), 12 and 24 (p), SHP: 36, THP: 35, FP: 73, Q: 45, Trinella: 94 and 29, Exacta: 246 and 122. Favourite: Knight Templar. Owner: Mr. C. Aryama Sundaram. Trainer: S. Padmanabhan.  8. TOTALIZATOR CUP (Div. II) , (1,400m), rated 15 to 35: ROSY RAPUNZEL (Gnaneshwar) 1, In A Breeze (Suraj) 2, Golden Memory (Darshan) 3 and Amalfi Sunrise (Saddam H) 4. Not run: Paradise Beckons and Heavenly Angel. 1/2, Snk and 3-3/4. 1m, 26.77s. Rs. 101 (w), 20, 11 and 14 (p), SHP: 38, THP: 43, FP: 350, Q: 117, Trinella: 476 and 348, Exacta: 3,621 and 2,587. Favourite: In A Breeze. Owner: Mr. Vinesh Aron. Trainer: V. Dheeraj. Jackpot: Rs. 1,64,586 (carried over); Runner-up: 14,107 (five tkts.); Treble (i): 7,155 (carried over); (ii): 585 (25 tkts.).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/lagarde-shows-his-class-in-kingfisher-ultra-derby-bangalore/article33671084.ece
27 January 2021||HYDERABAD,||HFC signs up Sankar Roy||Hyderabad FC signed up 25-year-old goalkeeper Sankar Roy on Tuesday as Subrata Paul moved the other way, joining Robbie Fowler’s side on loan for the rest of the season. “I feel great to be a part of Hyderabad FC. They are a very good team and have done really well in the ISL this season. “I can’t wait to meet my teammates, talk to the coach and start training with my new club,” Sankar said in a statement. Sankar began his professional career with Mohammedan Sporting, then turned out for the Black Panthers in the Second Division League in 2016-17. He was part of the Sikkim Gold Cup-winning side in 2016. Success with Bagan The following year, he signed for Mohun Bagan. During his three-year stint with the Mariners, he cemented his place in the first team, helping the Kolkata side to a Calcutta Football League triumph in 2018-19 and the I-League victory in 2019-20. With his stint with East Bengal in the current ISL, Sankar is one of the few footballers to have played for all of Kolkata Maidan’s Big Three.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/hfc-signs-up-sankar-roy/article33671370.ece
27 January 2021||January 27 2021 00:00 IST,||Narrator and listener||Something that is narrated has value, depending upon who the narrator is. The Bhagavad Gita is studied by many, because it was told by Lord Krishna. But the Gita is difficult to understand, and so an even greater enthusiasm is shown by people, when they study the works of the Azhvars. Azhvars gave us the essence of all sacred scriptures. The Vamana avatara merits attention because it is told by one who gave up everything. Sage Suka told Parikshit about this avatara. What is significant here is that the listener too was worthy of respect. Parikshit, with death fast approaching, chose to hear about the Lord. When he knew he was going to die, he at once gave the throne to his son and went to the banks of the Ganges. Giving up all the comforts of palace life is not easy. But to Parikshit it came easily. Suka is said to be an even greater jnani than his father Vyasa. He too was totally detached from worldly attractions. So Suka the speaker and Parikshit the listener were known for their vairagya, said Kidambi Narayanan, in a discourse. Talking of the Supreme One’s avatara is important, because of the very meaning of the word avatara. It means to descend, indicating that the Lord moved from a higher position to a lower one. Even a samsari takes pride in many things, but mostly his pride centres around his wealth, his education or his family. None of these lasts forever. He may forget what he has studied. He may lose his wealth, and his family is his only in this birth. In fact, even wealth and education are limited to this birth, for who knows what his status will be in the next birth? And yet, we are proud about these things. Whereas, the Lord, whose greatness is not acquired, but is inherent in Him, chose to come to the Earth.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/narrator-and-listener/article33671025.ece
27 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Harikrishna takes on Anton||P. Harikrishna and Magnus Carlsen will look to redeem their reputation in the ninth round when action resumes after a day’s rest in the Tata Steel Masters chess tournament. Following his loss to tournament leader Alireza Firouzja (5.5 points), Harikrishna (4) plays with black pieces against Spain’s David Anton Guijar. On the other hand, 17-year-old Firouzja faces 16-year-old Russian sensation Andrey Esipeko who stunned Carlsen on Sunday.  The pairings (ninth round): David Anton Guijar (Esp, 3) vs P. Harikrishna (4); Alireza Firouzja (FIDE, 5.5) vs Andrey Esipenko (Rus, 5); Magnus Carlsen (Nor, 4) vs Nils Grandelius (Swe, 4.5).   Radoslaw Wojtaszek (Pol, 3.5) vs Fabiano Caruana (USA, 5); Anish Giri (Ned, 5) vs Maxime Vachier-Lagrave (Fra, 3); Jorden van Foreest (Ned, 5) vs Alexander Donchenko (Ger, 2.5); Aryan Tari (Nor, 3) vs Jan-Krzysztof Duda (Pol, 3).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/harikrishna-takes-on-anton/article33671071.ece
27 January 2021||MADRID,||Bilbao routs Getafe||Raul Garcia scored twice as Athletic Bilbao maintained its recent impressive run by routing Getafe 5-1 in the LaLiga on Monday. Yeray Alvarez, Alex Berenguer and Oscar de Marcos also scored for Athletic, which a week ago celebrated the Spanish Super Cup title after beating Barcelona in the final and Real Madrid in the semifinals. The home victory left Athletic in ninth place.  The result: Athletic Bilbao 5 (Raul Garcia 12, 61, Yeray 50, Berenguer 75, De Marcos 82) bt Getafe 1 (Cucurella 1).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bilbao-routs-getafe/article33671080.ece
27 January 2021||GURUGRAM,||Manas ousts Denim||Qualifier Manas Dhamne knocked out the sixth seed Denim Yadav 6-2, 3-6, 6-2 in the first round of the ITF grade-4 junior tennis tournament at the Tennis Project, Baliawas, on Monday. Top seed Nishant Dabas made light work of beating Yuvan Nandal.   The results (first round): Boys: Nishant Dabas bt Yuvan Nandal 6-1, 6-4; Nikhil Niranjan (USA) bt Aryan Shah 6-1, 6-1; Manas Dhamne bt Denim Yadav 6-2, 3-6, 6-2; Bushan Haobam bt Ronin Lotlikar 4-6, 6-2, 6-2.   Girls: Tanushri Pandey bt Siddhi Khot 6-2, 6-2; Suhitha Maruri bt Sanvi Ahluwalia 6-0, 6-0; Lakshmi Prabha bt Mirthula Mahalakshmi 6-1, 7-5; Kavya Khirwar bt Suhani Gaur 6-3, 6-4 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/manas-ousts-denim/article33671216.ece
27 January 2021||January 27 2021 00:00 IST,||NEUFC stuns ATKMB||NorthEast United FC stunned ATK Mohun Bagan 2-1 in an ISL match at the Fatorda Stadium on Tuesday. NEUFC climbed to fifth with 18 points from 13 matches while ATKMB remained second with 24 points.  The result: NEUFC 2 (Machado 60, Gallego 81) bt ATK Mohun Bagan 1 (Roy Krishna 72).   Wednesday’s match: Kerala Blasters vs Jamshedpur FC .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/neufc-stuns-atkmb/article33671034.ece
27 January 2021||January 27 2021 00:00 IST,||Vijaya defeats Vultures to take the crown||P. Dhruv top-scored with 84 as Vijaya CC defeated Vultures CC by 137 runs in the final to clinch the KSCA (Group I) under-19 inter-club tournament.  The scores (final): Vijaya 285/4 in 50 overs (Thippa Reddy 68, B. Vijaya Raj 33, P. Dhruv 84, N. Yash 65 n.o.) bt Vultures 148 in 44 overs (S.M. Shamanth 43) .    S. Punith’s five-wicket haul (5/93) helped President’s XI secure the first innings lead in a drawn KSCA-S.A. Srinivasan memorial under-23 tournament encounter against Bangalore Zone. S. Nithin (137) and S.S. Sujay (157) led Bangalore’s pursuit of Presidents' 451-run total but their side could only manage 387/8. Elsewhere, combined Mofussil XI, propelled by B. Dheemanth's 122, fell 21 runs short of Combined City XI's first-innings score of 337 and had to settle for a solitary point.  The scores: Bangalore City XI 197 & 206/6 in 40 overs (Rajkumar 114, K. Rohit 66) drew with Mofussil XI 325 in 74.1 overs (L.R. Chethana 47, Nirmith Shashidhar 92, Sourab Muttur 36, G.L. Yashas 29, K.M. Pravesh 4/84).   Combined City XI 337 drew with Combined Mofussil XI 316 in 70.1 overs (B. Dheemanth 122, Nikshep P.Khanapur 73, Kishan S.Bedare 71 n.o., Aman Khan 3/79).   President’s XI 451/6 drew with Bangalore Zone 387/8 in 90 overs (S. Nithin 137, S.S. Sujay 157, S.S.G. Rohiet 37 n.o., Tanish Mahesh 25 n.o., S. Punith 5/93).      Second seeds Likith Gowda and Kashvi Sunil made safe progress into the last-eight stage of the KSLTA under-12 Talent Series tournament, part of the Tattvam Junior Tour, at the KSLTA courts on Tuesday. Likith defeated M. Yashas Raj 6-1, 6-1, while Kashvi beat Anushka Mandilwar 6-0, 6-1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/vijaya-defeats-vultures-to-take-the-crown/article33671076.ece
27 January 2021||New Delhi:,||Narrow win for Rann Star||Rann Star Club beat Sapience Academy by two wickets in the Rikhi Ram memorial tournament.  The scores: Sapience Academy 208 in 40 overs (Pawan Ahlawat 80, Abhijeet Sharma 41, Tejas Baroka 3/42) lost to RSC 211/8 in 39.2 overs (Sarthak Ranjan 48, Sombir Sheokand 41 n.o., Anish Alvi 3/31) .    Moksh Jain picked up four wickets as Rohtak Road Gymkhana beat LB Shastri Club by 12 runs in the Turf Youth Cup under-15 tournament.  The scores: RRG 190 in 39.1 overs (Kartik Datta 66, Yuraj Singh 38, Shahan Rawat 4/31) bt LBSC 178/9 in 40 overs (Avijit Tyagi 45, Abhinav Chaurasia 34 n.o., Moksh Jain 4/24) .    RCC defeated Endurance Academy by nine wickets in the Endurance under-15 League.  The scores: Endurance Academy 99 in 33.4 overs (Zaynul Khan 3/17) lost to RCC 100/1 in 16.5 overs (Saksham Sharma 61 n.o.) .    Pioneer Club beat Swasthik Sports Mangement by 28 runs to enter the semifinals of the Swasthik Cup Under-17 tournament.  The scores: Pioneer Club 217 in 38 overs (Rushal Saini 62 n.o., Trinav Kumar 42) bt SSM 189 in 38.4 overs (Karan Garg 37, Shekar Verma 3/32) .     Aryan Rana top-scored with 90 as Rohtak Road Gymkhana beat Triaksh Academy by five wickets in the Swastik Ghevra League.  The scores: Triaksh Academy 231/5 in 40 overs (Sandeep Saini 79 n.o., Bharat Sindhwani 58) lost to RRG 232/5 in 39.2 overs (Aryan Rana 90, Harshit Bisht 56, Ankush Bains 34) .    SN Dubey Academy defeated WCL by 144 runs to enter the semifinals of the seventh SN Dubey under-16 tournament.  The scores: SND Academy 288/9 in 40 overs (Yash Vardhan Dalal 71, Deepanshu Chaudhary 53, Kush Tyagi 36, Jasmeet Nain 34, Karan Dedha 3/66) bt WCL Academy 144 in 29.3 overs (Mayank Janghu 3/25) .    Bal Bhawan beat K. G. Colts by 60 runs in the Skillz Youth Cup under-19 tournament.  The scores: BBA 226 in 40 overs (Aditya Chaudhary 49, Yugal Saini 36) bt KG Colts 166 in 34.3 overs (Gaurav Rawat 34, Saksham Singroha 3/28) .    Nitish Rana slammed an unbeaten 100 as One X Sports beat Kays Delhi to enter the semifinals of the One X T20 tournament.  The scores: One X Sports 183/7 in 20 overs (Nitish Rana 100 n.o., Sartaj Ansari 3/26) bt Kays Delhi 167/9 in 20 overs (Mohd. Kaif Siddiqui 63, Hasim Ali 35) .    Naman Wasan’s unbeaten 71 helped Ravi Brothers beat Golden Hawks by 52 runs in the Tripaathi Premier League.  The scores: Ravi Brothers 205/7 in 35 overs (Naman Wasan 71 n.o.) bt Golden Hawks 153 in 33 overs (Vaibhav Sharma 70, Saksham Kaim 3/25, Shivam Tripaathi 3/22) .    Tishant Babla’s 70 and a four-wicket haul by Akash Singh saw RD Sports beat RPS Academy by six wickets in the BR Sharma memorial T20 tournament.  The scores: RPS Academy 130/9 in 20 overs (Madhav Kaushik 54, Akash Singh 4/16, Ayush Rawat 3/22) lost to RD Sports 134/4 in 15.3 overs (Tishant Babla 70); Anand Sports 137/7 in 20 overs (Saswat Kohli 36, Ashish Meena 2/31) bt DDA 101 in 20 overs (Yogesh Sati 27, Uttkarsh Jain 4/17, Chetan 2/26) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/narrow-win-for-rann-star/article33671213.ece
27 January 2021||PANAJI,||SCEB ropes in Paul||ISL side SC East Bengal on Tuesday signed Subrata Paul for the remainder of the season, taking the star goalkeeper on loan from Hyderabad FC. Paul, 34, played six matches for Hyderabad with two clean sheets before being loaned out.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sceb-ropes-in-paul/article33671085.ece
27 January 2021||January 27 2021 08:29 IST,||Sudoku - January 27, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-january-27-2021/article33671782.ece
27 January 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Punjab, Haryana on high alert after violence erupts in Delhi||Amid incidents of violence in Delhi during the farmers’ tractor parade on Tuesday, the Punjab and Haryana governments have announced a high alert in their States to ensure that law and order is maintained. Terming the violence perpetrated by certain elements during the tractor rally in the Capital on Tuesday ‘unacceptable’, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh urged all ‘genuine’ farmers to vacate Delhi and return to the borders, where they had been protesting peacefully for the past two months. He also ordered a high alert in Punjab and directed Director General of Police Dinkar Gupta to ensure that law and order in the State was not disturbed at any cost.  High-level meeting Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal on Tuesday chaired a high-level meeting and directed all the Deputy Commissioners, Commissioners of Police and Superintendents of Police to remain on ‘high alert’ to ensure law and order in the State. The State government also suspended Internet services, all SMS services (excluding banking and mobile recharge) and all dongle services provided on the mobile networks, except voice calls, in Sonipat, Palwal and Jhajjar districts for 24 hours till 5 p.m. on January 27, an official statement said. Haryana Home Secretary Rajeev Arora said Internet services were snapped to “stop the spread of disinformation and rumours through various social media platforms” for mobilisation of antisocial elements who can disturb peace, cause loss of life and damage to property. Mr. Lal said one has the freedom to speech but one should not use this freedom to abuse others. “Also, one has the liberty to express but not to defame others. Similarly, people have the freedom to protest, but not to spread anarchy,” he said, speaking during the Republic Day function in Panchkula. The Shiromani Akali Dal has also condemned the incidents of violence in Delhi. In a statement, the party said it stands for peace and communal harmony and believes in democratic values. It has also appealed to the people to maintain peace and announced that an emergency meeting has been convened for January 27 to consider the situation.  (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/punjab-haryana-on-high-alert-after-violence-erupts-in-delhi/article33671232.ece
27 January 2021||JAIPUR,||BJP making strategies to counter Cong.||A 16-member core group of the Bharatiya Janata Party, formed to address infighting and factionalism in the party’s Rajasthan unit, has started making strategies to counter the ruling Congress in the run-up to by-election in four State Assembly constituencies. The core group held its first meeting here on Sunday. The upcoming budget session of the Assembly, starting on February 10, is also likely to give an opportunity to BJP to raise some important issues. BJP has completed its initial round of election campaign by organising party workers’ meetings in three of these constituencies. BJP State president Satish Poonia said the State government’s failure to fulfil the promises made in the Congress manifesto, “mishandling” of the COVID-19 pandemic and the deteriorating law and order situation would be some of the issues to be raised in the Assembly. “In the feedback received from the poll-bound Assembly seats, we have learnt that the people are angry with the government,” he said. The group members felt that the non-waiver of farm loans, failure to disburse unemployment allowance and rising cases of crimes against women could create trouble for the government. BJP national general secretary Arun Singh, who attended the meeting as a special invitee, sought to downplay factionalism in the party. He said at a press conference that the existence of difference of opinion within the State unit was an indication of “internal democracy” in which all views were respected. Former Chief Minister Vasundhara Raje, also a member of the core group, skipped the meeting. Members missing Two other members conspicuous by their absence were Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly Gulab Chand Kataria and Rajya Sabha MP Bhupendra Yadav. Ms. Raje has been skipping most of the party events ever since the Congress was elected power in December 2018. The core group includes Union Ministers Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, Arjun Ram Meghwal and Kailash Chaudhary, Rajya Sabha MPs Om Prakash Mathur and Rajendra Gehlot and Lok Sabha MPs Kanak Mal Katara and Chandra Prakash Joshi as its members.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bjp-making-strategies-to-counter-cong/article33671230.ece
27 January 2021||Ghaziabad,||AMU buries ‘time capsule’ to mark its centenary year||A 1.5-ton ‘time capsule’, encapsulating the history of Aligarh Muslim University spanning over a century, was buried 30 feet deep on Tuesday in the park opposite the Victoria Gate to mark the Republic Day celebrations and the eventful centenary year of the university. The historic cache of information built with high-tempered steel for the communication with future generations included a copy of Sir Syed Album (by Khaliq Ahmad Nizami); essays and speeches relating to the Mohammadan Anglo-Oriental College, Aligarh from 1875 to 1919 (compiled by Nawab Mohsin ul Mulk) and History of MAO College, Aligarh (by Theodore Morrison). It also included the speech of Prime Minister Narendra Modi in the Centenary celebrations on December 22, 2020. “This time capsule is for the benefit of future generations and it includes the salient features of the glorious history of AMU,” said AMU Vice-Chancellor Tariq Mansoor. He said most modern methods of preservation of the documents have been used. Emphasising the need of keeping the records of the past for future, Prof. Mansoor pointed out that the line of demarcation between prehistoric and historical times is crossed when people cease to live only in the present, and become consciously interested both in their past and future. Meanwhile, he also informed that a committee has been constituted to sort out the modalities for excavating a capsule buried on January 8, 1877, by Lord Lytton (the then Viceroy and Governor-General of India) during the foundation stone ceremony of the MAO College.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/amu-buries-time-capsule-to-mark-its-centenary-year/article33671238.ece
27 January 2021||GUWAHATI,||Cong. advises restraint to AIUDF||As the political temperature rises in Assam ahead of the Assembly polls, the State Congress unit has advised one of its allies, the All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF), not to make any statements that come across as divisive. Lok Sabha Member and AIUDF president Maulana Badruddin Ajmal had at a public meeting last week said that 3,500 mosques would be demolished if the BJP retained power after the 2024 Parliamentary polls. He had also said the BJP was trying to change the food habits of a section of Indians, which was unacceptable. ‘Communal statements’ “Ajmal is trying to polarise the votes by making such communal statements. The voters in Assam are sensible and can see through such statements,” BJP spokesperson Roopam Goswami said. Referring to Mr. Ajmal’s statement, Union Home Minster Amit Shah had said on January 23 that the Congress revealed its communal face by tying up with AIUDF in Assam and the Indian Union Muslim League in Kerala. The Congress and AIUDF are the two major constituents of a pre-poll Opposition alliance of six parties. The other constituents are the Communist Party of India, CPI(Marxist), CPI(Marxist-Leninist) and the Anchalik Gana Morcha, led by journalist turned Rajya Sabha Member Ajit Kumar Bhuyan. “He (Mr. Shah) should have known that the Indian Constitution has not declared either AIUDF or IUML as communal. AIUDF is not a communal party and Mr. Ajmal has not made any anti-Hindu remarks, unlike the BJP that incites hatred against Muslims,” State Congress president Ripun Bora said. He, however, said the constituents of the Grand Alliance have been asked to not make any provocative remarks and refrain from issuing statements that may hurt the sentiments of any community. MP and State Congress vice-president Pradyut Bordoloi said all constituents of the Grand Alliance will have to stick to some rules. “We think that AIUDF has not made any communal statements so far. But we will not tolerate any such statements in the future,” he said. Mr. Bora, meanwhile, slammed Mr. Shah for claiming to have made Assam “infiltration and flood-free”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/cong-advises-restraint-to-aiudf/article33671226.ece
27 January 2021||Ballia (U.P.),||Man held on charges of rape, conversion||A 22-year-old man was arrested here on Tuesday for allegedly raping a 14-year-old girl, making obscene videos of her and attempting to pressure her into religious conversion for marriage, the police said. The man’s father was also arrested while they were reportedly attempting to flee. POCSO Act They have been charged with rape and unlawful religious conversion and under sections of the POCSO Act, they said. “The Muslim youth on January 11 entered the house of the 14-year-old girl and raped her. He made a video clip and exerted pressure on the girl, whoon January 13 narrated the incident to her parents. Since the accused were influential, the girl’s family members could not muster courage to lodge a complaint,” Superintendent of Police Vipin Tada said. A cases was ultimately registered on Monday following a complaint by the father of the victim, he said. Attempting to flee “The youth and his father were arrested on Tuesday from near a railway station when they were trying to escape. Both were produced before a local court, which sent them to jail,” the SP said. Station House Officer of the local Kotwali police station Vipin Singh said the family members of the accused allegedly threatened the girl to convert for ‘ nikaah ’ (marriage), following which charges under the anti-religious conversion legislation were pressed, and the duo arrested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/man-held-on-charges-of-rape-conversion/article33671224.ece
27 January 2021||GUWAHATI,||Meghalaya govt. talks tough on illegal coal mining||The National People’s Party-led alliance government in Meghalaya has said it would crack down on illegal coal mining as constituent partner Bharatiya Janata Party demanded the State Home Minister’s resignation for the death of six workers in a 180-foot coal pit on January 21. State Home Minister Lakhmen Rymbui represents the regional United Democratic Party. “We do not know who is indulging in illegal coal mining... I am made to understand that the place where the illegal activity took place is far away from the villages,” Deputy Chief Minister Prestone Tynsong had said in Shillong on Monday. Six miners, all from Assam, died after a crane collapsed into the pit in a forest, Sorkari, in East Jaintia Hills district on January 21. The site is not far from Ksan where at least 15 miners drowned in December 2018. Insisting that action was being taken against illegal rat-hole coal mining, banned by the National Green Tribunal since April 2014, Mr. Tynsong said a few people have been picked up in connection with the mishap. The government has been facing flak from the Opposition Congress and ally BJP for failing to stop illegal mining and transportation of coal. While demanding Mr. Rymbui’s resignation, BJP has been seeking an independent probe into the illegal mining activities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/meghalaya-govt-talks-tough-on-illegal-coal-mining/article33671236.ece
27 January 2021||Kolkata,||Elephant calf rescued from well||Forest officials in West Bengal’s Lalgarh forest range in Jhargram district on Tuesday morning rescued an elephant calf that had fallen into a well. “At 5.45 a.m., the villagers informed us that an elephant calf had fallen into a well. A tusker and a female elephant were guarding the place,” Bjjay Chakraborty, Additional Divisional Forest Official of Medinipur Division, said. The officials and the villagers managed to drive away the elephants and rescue the calf with a JCB machine. Videos of the elephants guarding the well and the rescue efforts have gone viral. The calf is now back with the herd. In another development, the Wildlife Crime Control Bureau and Barasat Forest Range rescued a live pangolin at a city bus stand and arrested three persons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/elephant-calf-rescued-from-well/article33671228.ece
27 January 2021||January 27 2021 00:00 IST,||Guarding the Republic||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/guarding-the-republic/article33671223.ece
27 January 2021||Jaipur,||25-year-old gang-raped in Rajasthan||A 25-year-old woman was allegedly raped by three men in Nagaur district of Rajasthan and a bottle was inserted into her private parts, the police said on Tuesday. The incident took place on January 19 when the woman had gone to a nearby farm. In her complaint, the woman has alleged that the accused inserted a bottle into her private parts when she resisted their rape attempts. The accused also threatened her of dire consequences if she told anyone about the incident, SHO Parbatsar Rupram said. Later, the woman narrated her ordeal to her family members. She was admitted to a private hospital on January 19 and was discharged the next day. An FIR was registered against the absconding accused, the SHO added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/25-year-old-gang-raped-in-rajasthan/article33671234.ece
27 January 2021||Kolkata,||TMC issues show-cause notice to MLA||The Trinamool Congress on Tuesday issued a show-cause notice to Uttarpara MLA Prabir Kumar Ghosal. Mr. Ghosal did not attend West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee’s meeting in Hooghly district on Monday. On Tuesday morning, Mr. Ghosal resigned from two official party posts. He held a press conference saying there is a conspiracy to defeat him in the Assembly polls. Mr. Ghosal said there were ‘rotten fruits’ in the party, and if they were not removed, the party will suffer. He said he has not resigned from the post of MLA and the party. Mr. Ghosal is one of the last of the Trinamool Congress leaders who has sounded dissent against the party.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/tmc-issues-show-cause-notice-to-mla/article33671233.ece
