29 January 2021||New Delhi,||Police issue notice to 40 farmer leaders||The Delhi police on Thursday issued notices to 40 farmers’ leaders for violating the terms and conditions agreed upon for holding tractor rallies on Republic Day. The notices were served on Darshan Pal, Rakesh Tikat, Yogendra Yadav, Baldev Singh Sirsa, Balbir S. Rajewal and others for breaching the agreement with the Delhi police. They have been asked to submit their response within three days. The Police Special Cell also registered a case under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and sedition in connection with violence during the tractor parades, said a police officer. In a separate FIR registered at the Kotwali police station, the police named Deep Sidhu, actor-turned-activist, and another person Lakha Sidhana, a criminal, on charges of sedition. “The last location of Deep was traced in Haryana, where he permanently switched off his phone. We have issued lookout notices against him and Sidhana,” said a police officer. In a separate FIR registered at the Samaypur Badli police station, 37 farmer leaders have been named and charged under IPC sections on attempt to murder, rioting and others. The officer added that protesters at Red Fort removed the national flag disrespectfully. They also found many flags lying on the ground on Republic Day. A senior police officer said lookout notices had been issued against farmer leaders named in an FIR in connection with the violence and sedition charges invoked in the Red Fort incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/delhi-police-issue-notices-to-40-farmer-leaders-for-r-day-ruckus/article33689438.ece
29 January 2021||MANGALURU,||City gets Rs. 317 cr. surplus budget but there are no new schemes||A surplus budget of Rs. 317.18 crore that includes an opening balance of Rs. 283.53 crore, expected revenue of Rs. 609.92 crore and expenditure of Rs. 576.28 crore for the financial year 2021-22 was presented at the Mangaluru City Corporation here on Thursday even as the civic body promised to roll out online payment system for property tax during the period. The budget did not propose any new project or scheme and instead is focussed on improving revenue collection. Presenting the budget at the Council meeting here, Standing Committee on Taxation, Finance and Appeals chairman Kiran Kumar said that the corporation has already provided online facility for trade licence renewal and water bill payment. He said that the corporation is taking steps, including survey to identify propertys that have been left out of the tax net, to enhance tax mobilisation. Having identified 2.05 lakh property so far, the civic body estimates to generate Rs. 70 crore revenue from property tax, he said. Mr. Kumar said that a vigilance cell headed by the Deputy Commissioner (Revenue) will be established to identify revenue leakage and plug it. With online payment of water bill in force, he said, the corporation was expecting Rs. 60 crore revenue. Steps are being taken for prompt delivery of water bills to consumers every month and monthly water adalats will be held for regularisation of unauthorised connections. The corporation expects Rs. 2 crore from cess on underground drainage system. The main office of the corporation has already become paperless and steps are being taken to make other offices paperless. The corporation was committed to providing all its services online, he said.  Solid waste  Continuing 50 % rebate for solid waste management cess on property tax and trade licence for households and commercial establishments, respectively, processing wet waste at source, Mr. Kumar proposed to have teams comprising councillors and residents at ward levels to encourage more people to opt for wet waste processing at source and claim rebate. The waste processing unit near Pachchanady landfill that witnessed a garbage slip in 2019 is being modernised at an estimated Rs. 12.56 crore under the Swachh Bharat Mission. Families affected by garbage slips have been paid Rs. 2.86 crore compensation in all. Owners of private buildings who build septic tanks on their premises will get “Swachhateya Sainika” (Soldier for cleanliness) certificate, Mr. Kumar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/city-gets-rs-317-cr-surplus-budget-but-there-are-no-new-schemes/article33689899.ece
29 January 2021||HUBBALLI,||HDUDA drive against unauthorised layouts continues in Dharwad||The special drive against unauthorised residential layouts in and around Hubballi-Dharwad initiated by the Hubballi Dharwad Urban Development Authority (HDUDA) continued on Thursday on the outskirts of Dharwad. Led by HDUDA Chairman Nagesh Kalburgi, HDUDA Commissioner Vinayak Palankar and others, the drive was carried out on the right side of the Kelageri Bridge in Dharwad. The workers, who were provided police security, used earthmovers to clear structures, including drainage, boundary stones and electricity poles erected by the land owners. The officials said that despite notice issued to them, the land owners had gone ahead with development of the layouts without getting valid permissions from the competent authorities. Initially, there was some opposition from the land owners and they tried to argued with the officials. However, the drive was carried out under police protection and all the structures in the unauthorised layouts were removed. Members of HDUDA Yallappa Aravalad, Meenakshi Vantamuri, Town Planning member Vivek Karekar, executive engineer M. Rajashekhar, Assistant Executive Engineer Umesh Bevur and others were present. Speaking to presspersons, Mr. Nagesh Kalburgi said that the drive would continue against all unauthorised layouts as HDUDA wanted the general public to invest their hard-earned money only in authorised layouts and not illegal ones.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hduda-drive-against-unauthorised-layouts-continues-in-dharwad/article33689698.ece
29 January 2021||KALABURAGI,||Two daily wage workers asphyxiated in manhole in Kalaburagi city||Two daily wage workers died when they suffocated while unclogging a drainage line located at Kailash Nagar in Kalaburagi on Thursday evening. The deceased, identified as Lal Ahmed, 24, and Rasheed, 30, entered the 20-foot-deep manhole to clean the sewerage as it was blocked. Both the deceased, residents of Azadpur village in Kalaburagi taluk, had been hired by a private agency for maintaining an underground drainage system. As per sources, one of the deceased ventured into the manhole, slipped and got stuck in filth. And, the other worker got into the manhole in an effort to rescue him, but he also died instantly of asphyxiation as he lowered himself into the civic line. Meanwhile, the condition of another worker Raj Ahmed is said to be serious. As soon as news of the death spread, the family members of the workers, along with scores of villagers, gathered outside the Kalaburagi District Hospital and staged a protest for more than an hour. The district administration has announced Rs. 5 lakh each to the families of both the victims.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/two-daily-wage-workers-asphyxiated-in-manhole-in-kalaburagi-city/article33689465.ece
29 January 2021||MYSURU,||Wait gets longer for single-screen cinemas in State to resume shows||Despite the Union Ministry of Home Affairs easing curbs on the capacity of audience in cinemas, with continuous drop in COVID-19 cases in the country, film exhibitors are not prepared to reopen single-screen theatres as they await clear guidelines from the government on seating capacity and the revised SOP. This means, the wait for film enthusiasts has become longer as the exhibitors want to assess the situation before throwing open theatres after nearly 10 months. With most exhibitors suffering losses and unable to face further loss by running shows for a smaller audience, a clear picture on the reopening of theatres would emerge once the guidelines are out, mostly by February 1. Until then, many exhibitors have decided to wait and watch. Moreover, the exhibitors’ revenue-sharing talks with film producers have remained inconclusive despite over five rounds of meeting. In the wake of COVID-19, financial stability of many theatres has become weak and they are in no position to screen films based on the prevailing revenue-sharing model. ‘Not specified’ M.R. Rajaram, secretary, Mysuru Film Exhibitors’ Association, who is also vice-president of the Karnataka Film Exhibitors’ Federation, told The Hindu that the audience capacity had been allowed to increase but the number has not been specified. “Moreover, we don’t know what is the revised SOP that will accompany the revised guidelines. Until we assess and work out the costs, we cannot say anything at this stage on the reopening. The overheads will go up for us for maintaining the SOP and we have to study the revenue we are going to get after taking all measures for screening films,” he explained. Barring a few, mostly in Bengaluru, nearly 90% of single-screen theatres continue to remain shut and are awaiting further relaxation of curbs. As of now, only 50% of the seating capacity is allowed to be filled and many exhibitors have decided not to reopen since it is unviable to run the show. Moreover, there have been no big releases, with producers and distributors also awaiting further relaxation of curbs to get suitable returns for their investment on film-making. Mr. Rajaram said producers were planning release of films with big stars in the second or third week of February. Besides, there are still certain issues that need to be addressed by the government and local bodies before the theatres become fully functional post-COVID-19. Collection sharing In the current scenario, single-screen exhibitors are not ready to pay fixed charges for screening films to producers unlike the past. While the weekly collections are shared in percentage terms for multiplexes, it is fixed charges for single-screen theatres irrespective of the weekly collections. Mr. Rajaram said the collections are shared in percentage terms in Telangana and Andhra Pradesh, leading to an increase in the number of single screens in those States. But in the State, single-screen theatres are shutting down unable to bear losses. “We want to establish a win-win situation for producers and exhibitors. Nobody should suffer losses. In this connection, talks are on with producers as the State exhibitors want producers to charge them on percentage terms,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/wait-gets-longer-for-single-screen-cinemas-in-state-to-resume-shows/article33689929.ece
29 January 2021||New Delhi,||AAP targets elections in six States in next two years||Aam Aadmi Party chief Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday said in the next two years, the party will fight elections in Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Goa, Punjab, Himachal Pradesh and Gujarat. He asked the party leaders and volunteers to concentrate on building the organisation outside Delhi. “Across the country, the Delhi government’s work is being discussed. People love and respect AAP. When we ask will you vote for us, they say that you don’t have any presence here. We have to overcome this. For this, you people have to build the organisation. In the next two years, we will fight elections Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Goa, Punjab, Himachal Pradesh and Gujarat,” the AAP convener said while addressing the 9th national council meeting of the party. Stressing the importance of organisation building, Mr. Kejriwal said, “The entire country knows that in Delhi people get 24-hour electricity and that too free. This magic is known only to us. Everyone wants this and for this you have to build the organisation. You will have to go to each street and meet people and build the organisation in a big way. When the whole country becomes part of AAP, only then the country will change.” “We are not for AAP, we are for the country, and AAP is just a vehicle to change the nation,” he said. Punish ‘actual culprits’ Terming the violence that happened in the Capital on Republic Day as “unfortunate”, he said strict action should be taken against the “actual culprits” and alleged that the Delhi police were filing “fake” FIRs. “Whoever is actually resp-onsible should get strict punishment. But because violence happened on that day doesn’t mean that the farmers’ issues and agitation are over. All of us should stand with the farmers peacefully, as citizens without any politics,” he told the gathering. Attacking the BJP and the Congress, he said that their intention is wrong and they do not have any vision. “If AAP could do this [development work] in just five years, the BJP and Congress could have done it in the last 70 years. This just proves that it was a deliberate att-empt to push back the nation by keeping the people uninformed and keeping the nation underdeveloped. Both these parties have done it deliberately,” Mr. Kejriwal said. In a veiled attack on the BJP, he said “the party at the national level” tells people about things that happened centuries ago, without talking about how the 21st and 22nd-century India should be. “The nation has to decide whether to move forward or move back. These parties don’t have a future plan for India. They have bad intent,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/aap-targets-elections-in-six-states-in-next-two-years/article33689601.ece
29 January 2021||New Delhi,||18 Opposition parties to boycott President’s address||As many as 18 Opposition parties, led by the Congress, on Thursday announced their decision to boycott President Ram Nath Kovind’s address to the joint sitting of Parliament on Friday at the start of the Budget session, in solidarity with the farmers protesting against the three farm laws. Leaders of 16 Opposition parties, including the Congress, the Trinamool Congress, the DMK, the Shiv Sena, the NCP and the Left parties, issued a joint statement, in which they said they were shocked at the government’s “insensitivity and undemocratic attitude” towards the protesting farmers. The Shiromani Akali Dal and Aam Aadmi Party also separately announced their decision to stay away from the Presidential address. Following the announcement, Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi appealed to the Opposition to desist from their proposed boycott.“The government is ready to discuss all issues threadbare and as much time as is required will be set aside when the Business Advisory Committee (BAC) of both Houses meet,” said Mr. Joshi. The Bahujan Samaj Party, Telangana Rashtra Samithi, YSR Congress, and Biju Janata Dal did not sign the joint statement even though some of them had protested against the farm laws during its passage last September. Disinformation The joint statement noted that though lakhs of farmers were peacefully protesting at the Delhi border for 64 days and 155 had lost their lives braving cold and rain, the government didn’t move from its position. “The government remains unmoved and has responded with water cannons, tear gas and lathicharge. Every effort has been made to discredit a legitimate mass movement through government sponsored disinformation campaign,” the Opposition statement read. The Opposition leaders also said the farm laws were an assault on the State governments and violated the spirit of the Constitution. “If not repealed, these Laws will effectively dismantle the edifice of National Food Security that rests upon — MSP, government procurement and Public Distribution System (PDS),” the leaders said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/18-parties-to-boycott-presidents-address/article33689418.ece
29 January 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,||New idols installed at Balalayam of Ramateertham||One month after the vandalisation of Lord Rama’s idol at the Sri Kodandarama Swamy temple located on the Bodikonda hill, the State government on Thursday installed the idols of Sri Rama, Lakshmana and Goddess Sitadevi in the Balalayam, a temporary temple, at Ramateertham, 12 km away from Vizianagaram city. On the suggestion of the Endowments Department, the Tirumala Tirupathi Devasthanam (TTD)’s sculpture and architecture wing carved the idols and sent them to Ramateertham recently. Under the supervision of Sri Venkateswara Vedic University professor Agnihotram Srinivasacharyulu, the idols were installed in the temporary structure built adjacent to the hill temple. After the reconstruction of the hill temple, for which the government has already announced Rs. 3 crore and is expected to be completed within a year, the idols will be shifted there. Endowments Regional Joint Commissioner D. Bhrahmaramba told the media that special pujas were being offered from January 25 and the installation was completed at 8.56 a.m. with the performance of ‘purnahuti’. Meanwhile, Ramateertham Seva Parishad founder V.V.S.R. Prasad hailed the installation of new idols upholding the sentiments of lakhs of devotees. Expressing happiness over the installation of new idols, former Union Minister Pusapati Ashok Gajapathi Raju said, “Fortunately, on the same day, I got a favourable order from the High Court for continuation as the hereditary trustee for the Ramateertham temple. I think it is the God’s will.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/new-rama-idol-installed-at-balalayam-of-ramateertham/article33689421.ece
29 January 2021||New Delhi,||Stopping hate on television is essential to prevent riots: SC||The Supreme Court on Thursday said stopping hate on television was as essential for law and order as arming policemen with lathis and putting up barricades to prevent the spread of violence and riots. “Control over certain kind of news which agitate people to violence and riots is a law and order problem. Preventing it is as powerful as putting up barricades. Preventing instigation is as important as providing lathis to policemen,” Chief Justice of India Sharad A. Bobde, heading a three-judge Bench, addressed Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre. The Chief Justice referred to how the government had shut down Internet facility on January 26 amid violence during the farmers’ tractor rally. “You shut down the internet mobile facility because of the farmers’ visit to Delhi,” Chief Justice Bobde remarked.“It can hardly be called a ‘visit’,” Mr. Mehta reacted. “I was just using a non-controversial word,” Chief Justice Bobde replied. The CJI said the court, by government control, did not mean to curb free speech on TV. “People can take any tone on TV as long as they don’t incite violence, hatred, communal riots. We are interested only with people instigating and inciting violence and riots. These are situations which cause loss of lives and property. That is what we are worried about,” Chief Justice Bobde explained. Mr. Mehta said the creation of such situations though “unfortunate” were “deliberate”. The Chief Justice said the court had no problem with “fair and truthful reporting”. “Fair and truthful reporting normally is not a problem. The problem is when it [broadcast, programmes] is used to agitate others”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/stopping-hate-on-tv-is-imperative-sc/article33689433.ece
29 January 2021||MYSURU,||Theatre numbers fall sharply||Is it the end of the road for many single-screen cinemas in the State with several hurdles continuing to remain? In the last five years, the number of single-screen cinemas in the State came down to 589 from 638. The nearly 40 cinemas shut business unable to bear losses. Shantala, a theatre in Mysuru, shut downduring the peak of COVID-19 pandemic last year. “We have come to know that nearly 30 more theatres have surrendered their digital equipment to service providers telling that they are unable to reopen post-COVID-19. The number of theatres shutting down is on the rise, highlighting the difficulties faced by exhibitors,” said M.R. Rajaram, vice-president, Karnataka Film Exhibitors’ Federation. He said the current business terms were not financially benefiting theatre owners. Exhibitors in cities have somehow sustained financial hit all these years but theatre owners in smaller towns can no longer bear losses. It has made the business extremely unviable in the changed circumstances and for various reasons, Mr. Rajaram argued. A clear picture on how many theatres will continue to remain in business will be known when new films are released. “The revenue model has failed to sustain theatres and it is time the model was renegotiated so that the business continues, entertaining the audiences for coming generations,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/theatre-numbers-fall-sharply/article33689931.ece
29 January 2021||HYDERABAD,||Why delay in CWC formation, HC asks State||Noting that children are most susceptible to unscrupulous elements and cannot knock on doors of courts, Telangana High Court on Thursday instructed State government to constitute Child Welfare Committees in all 33 districts of the State within two weeks. Passing this interim direction while hearing a batch of PIL pleas and a writ petition on missing children and their exploitation, the HC impleaded Union Ministry of Women and Child Welfare as co-respondent in the matter. The bench comprising Chief Justice Hima Kohli and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy told senior counsel L. Ravi Chander, representing one of the petitioners, to study the slew of instructions issued by Delhi High Court in a similar matter before presenting his response to the report filed by Telangana Director General of Police. Reason for pendency On learning that the constitution of Child Welfare Committees was kept pending by the State government, the CJ sought to know from Advocate General B.S. Prasad reasons behind it. “Why this laxity..? We are talking about children who cannot approach the courts for help,” the CJ remarked. As the AG replied that creation of Child Welfare Committees was in final stages, the CJ instructed that within two weeks they should be formed and made functional as per the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act. Referring to the Delhi HC directions in Sadhan Haldar vs the State NCT of Delhi, the CJ said police should effectively use facial recognition software to trace and track missing children. For this, co-ordination with the police of all States and involvement of Union of India was must. In addition to this, fixing the golden hours for tracing missing children must be analysed, the CJ said. When it comes to issue of tracing missing children “Information Technology is the only way forward,” the CJ remarked. The AG informed the bench that Telangana police were already using Darpan, a similar software, to trace children missing from the State. The CJ said the issue of missing children should be monitored by the highest level police officers in the State keeping in view the seriousness of unsuspecting children dragged into the vicious circle of exploitation. The pleas were posted to February 25 for next hearing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/why-delay-in-cwc-formation-hc-asks-state/article33689729.ece
29 January 2021||MYSURU,||Tribal girl who cleared NET has plans for IAS||An advasi girl fromNagapura on the outskirts of Nagarahole has become a source of inspiration for other girls from the tribal community to take up education and pursue an independent career. Meet V.P. Srujana of Nagarahole Tribal Rehabilitation Centre at Nagapura, who created history of sorts when she became the first primitive tribal in the State to clear the National Eligibility Test (NET) for assistant professor conducted by the National Testing Agency on behalf of the University Grants Commission (UGC). Felicitated In recognition of her achievement, Ms. Srujana was felicitated at a function at the centre on Wednesday. She had appeared for the UGC-NET in October 2020, the results of which were announced last month. Belonging to the Pani Yerava community, which is a primitive and vulnerable microscopic tribe, she is also among the handful of Adivasis who have completed their post-graduation. Ms. Srujana, daughter of Veena and M.B. Prabhu, completed her M.Com. from the University of Mysore with a first class in 2019 and appeared for NET and cleared it, qualifying for assistant professor’s post. She is from Balekovu tribal haadi in Virajpet taluk and did her primary schooling in Nallurupala Government Primary School in Hunsur. She stayed with her grandparents as there is no school at Balekovu. She completed her high school and PUC from the Government Junior College for Girls, Hunsur, and graduation from the Government Women’s College, Hunsur, after which she studied M.Com. Incidentally, her mother is the first graduate among the tribes and completed her degree from the University of Mysore in 1988. Ms. Srujana told The Hindu that she drew inspiration from her parents who were supportive and now wishes to pursue Ph.D for which she is scouting for a guide. As someone conscious of the social backwardness of the community, Ms. Srujana intends to take up a topic relevant to the tribes. This apart, she is also taking up the civil services examination conducted by the Union Public Service Commission. “Now that I have completed PG and cleared NET, I will prepare for the IAS preliminary examination which will also help in appearing for the KAS examination,” said Ms. Srujana. “It is a proud privilege to say that she is our daughter,” said her elated parents who aver that she will inspire other members of the tribe to take up education.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tribal-girl-who-cleared-net-has-plans-for-ias/article33689934.ece
29 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||Reject SEC proceedings against 2 officers, CS tells DoPT||Chief Secretary Aditya Nath Das has written a letter to the Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT) requesting it to refuse to take cognizance of the proceedings issued by the State Election Commission (SEC) against the two IAS officers who were censured by the Commission. The Chief Secretary also wanted the DoPT to advise the SEC not to exercise power which is not in his domain and adhere to the guidelines in the matter. Mr. Das, in the letter, said that the SEC had administered the censure against Panchayat Raj & Rural Development Principal Secretary Gopal Krishna Dwivedi and Commissioner of Panchayat Raj M. Girija Shankar without following the due procedure prescribed under AIS (D&A) Rules, 1969. The allegation was not updating the Gram Panchayat electoral rolls as on January 1, 2021. The SEC had written a very derogatory letter against the officers to the Secretary, DoPT, for their compulsory retirement. “This step of SEC also doesn’t fall under his competence and suffers from jurisdictional error,” he said. The Chief Secretary, referring to the guidelines and cases filed in the Supreme Court, said that the Election Commission was empowered to suspend any officer / police personnel working under the Central government or public sector undertaking or an autonomous body fully or partially funded by the government, for insubordination or dereliction of duty besides making recommendations to the competent authority for taking disciplinary action, while engaged in the preparation of electoral rolls or election duty. “The disciplinary proceedings against the All India Service Officers have to be dealt with under AIS (D&A) Rules, 1969,” he said. Mr. Das asserted that censure was a penalty classified under minor penalties and the State government was the competent authority. “The proceedings issued by the SEC administering censure against the two IAS officers and to direct that the same will form part of their service record is without competency and jurisdiction and nothing but transgressing into the powers vested with the State government. Accordingly, the government has rejected the censure proceedings of the SEC,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/reject-sec-proceedings-against-2-officers-cs-tells-dopt/article33689427.ece
29 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||Government appoints senior officer for COVID management||The State government appointed IAS officer M. Ravichandra as Secretary (COVID-19 Management) of Health, Medical and Family Welfare Department, according to a G.O. issued on Thursday. It was stated that the government was in the process of administering COVID vaccine to healthcare providers and frontline workers, including those in the private healthcare institutions, as a first priority. So far, 1,58,758 people had been vaccinated and the programme was expected to go for another six months to one year. While this is so, it was brought to the government's notice during a high-level review of the vaccination drive that 49 cases of Adverse Events Following Immunization (AEFI) were reported so far. A healthcare worker died and a dentist was hospitalised under critical condition. These incidents impacted the vaccination programme. Keeping these things in mind, the government decided to post a senior officer to coordinate with the line departments and monitor overall COVID-19 vaccination programme. It has since been resolved to create an ex-cadre Secretary post in the Department of Health, Medical and Family Welfare. Mr. Ravichandra has been appointed in that post considering his vast experience in healthcare management.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/government-appoints-senior-officer-for-covid-management/article33689429.ece
29 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||Telugu Desam unveils 5-point village development plan||Ahead of the local body elections, the Telugu Desam Party (TDP) President N. Chandrababu Naidu has released ‘Palle Pragati ki Pancha Sutralu’, a five-point agenda for development of villages. Safe drinking water, security and assurance of peace, developing model villages, self-reliance and reducing the property tax and extending civic services in all villages are the five plans announced by the TDP chief. In an apparent bid to counter the State government’s announcement of monetary incentives to the Gram Panchayats where elections are unanimous, the former Chief Minister listed out the funds that would be at the disposal of the local bodies directly. He also cautioned the people on possible ‘atrocities of the ruling YSR Congress Party (YSRCP)’ if the elections were unanimous. Addressing a press conference on Thursday, Mr. Naidu said that the TDP’s five plans would focus on the development of villages. Each of the 15,000 panchayats would get Rs. 70-80 lakh under the NREGA scheme directly from the Centre. Also, the Finance Commission funds were being directly given to villages. If the villagers would elect efficient leaders, all these funds would be used in an effective manner for their overall development. The YSRCP had even ‘diverted NREGA funds and started harassing’ the sarpanches who carried out works, he said. Stating that the ‘Pulivendula type one-sided polls’ would not be allowed in the rest of the State, Mr. Naidu alleged that the Ministers and YSRCP MLAs and leaders were resorting to ‘intimidation and physical attacks’ to force unanimous elections in the State. The YSRCP leaders had a hidden agenda behind their so-called call for ‘unanimous elections’. The TDP, however, was leaving it to the wisdom of the voters to elect efficient leaders as panchayat sarpanches who would bring real development in their villages, Mr. Naidu said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tdp-unveils-5-point-village-development-plan/article33689425.ece
29 January 2021||Bengaluru,||Corpn. told to submit records in landfill case for KSLSA inspection||Observing that the Mangaluru City Corporation has failed to provide correct facts on persons affected by the Pachchanady landfill incident of 2019 and their rehabilitation, the High Court of Karnataka on Thursday directed the corporation to submit the entire records for inspection by the Karnataka State Legal Services Authority. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Sachin Shankar Magadum issued the direction after noticing inaccurate information on the number of persons who lost their property, livelihood and also, compensation paid to them. The Division Bench issued the direction after pointing out varying particulars of the number of affected persons, lack of details on disbursement of ad hoc payment of compensation amount to eligible persons and the absence of material to show that the corporation had held proper adjudication to determine that 41 of persons are eligible to receive compensation. Though the Advocate-General suggested to the court that a retired district judge can be appointed to determine the compensation payable to eligible persons, the Division Bench said that it can appoint a retired district judge only of the corporation files an undertaking that it would accept and pay the compensation amount to be determined by such an appointee. Meanwhile, the Division Bench made it clear that the corporation will have to resort to Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act 2013, if it wants to take over private land, covered with the garbage from the landfill. And, it should not force the owners to surrender their land.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/corpn-told-to-submit-records-in-landfill-case-for-kslsa-inspection/article33689897.ece
29 January 2021||Bengaluru,||Regular classes for standard IX, I PU; SSLC exam from June 14||In an attempt to put the pandemic-hit education calender back on track, the Karnataka government on Thursday announced provisional time-table for Class 10 exam from June 14 and resumption of regular classes for students of Class 9 and I PUC from February 1. Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar, after a meeting with the technical advisory committee and Health Department, said regular classes would be held for classes 9, 10, I PUC, and II PUC students. For stansards 6 to 8, the ongoing Vidyagama classes on alternative days would be continued. Mr. Kumar also announced that SSLC exam would be conducted from June 14 to 25. Last year, SSLC exam was held from June 25.PAGE 5||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/regular-classes-for-ix-students-set-to-start/article33689457.ece
29 January 2021||HYDERABAD,||K.T. Rama Rao inagurates logistic park at Bata Singaram||Minister for Municipal Administration & Urban Development K.T.Rama Rao has said that the Telangana government will soon announce its ‘Logistic Policy’ keeping in view the prominence of Hyderabad city as logistic hub. Measures will be taken to ensure that the policy gets cabinet nod soon. Accordingly, new logistics parks will be established in future along the eight major roads branching out from the Outer Ring Road, Mr.Rama Rao said, while inaugurating the logistic park established at Bata Singaram by HMDA in public-private-partnership mode. Mr.Rao cited an international study which said Hyderabad needed logistic parks of 1.5 crore square feet, and said only 50 lakh square feet are available as of now. In view of several industries lining up here taking advantage of Telangana government’s industrial policy, the city will have more manufacturing units in future, which will give rise to a need for greater number of logistic parks, he said. So far, 14,000 industries have come to the State thanks to the TSiPASS policy. Mr.Rao also flayed the alleged attempts to politicise the Pharma City project being established with international technology. Measures will be taken inside the pharma city to prevent environmental damage unlike previous projects, and employees will live within a colony inside the pharma city, he assured. The logistic park at Bata Singaram has been developed in an area of 40 acres, with a project cost of Rs. 40 crore. It can house a total of 500 trucks, and has warehousing space of two lakh square feet, and cold storage for 10,000 metric tonnes. The facility is also equipped with office complex for operators, automobile service centre, dormitories, restaurants, provision for fuel station, commercial space and primary health centre among others. Minister Sabitha Indra Reddy, MLA Manchireddy Kishan Reddy, and Principal Secretary, MA&UD Arvind Kumar took part.  Hyderabad needs logistic parks of 1.5 crore square feet, and only 50 lakh square feet are available as of now. K.T.Rama Rao,MAUD Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ktr-inaugurates-logistic-park-at-bata-singaram/article33689752.ece
29 January 2021||CHENNAI,||‘Veda Nilayam’ is now a memorial||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Thursday inaugurated the memorial established by the government at former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa’s residence ‘Veda Nilayam’ at Poes Garden here. He also unveiled a life-size bronze statue of Jayalalithaa on the campus of the Tamil Nadu State Council for Higher Education, and said her birth anniversary would henceforth be observed by the government. The memorial inaugural function was a low-key event, lasting just a few minutes, in view of the Madras High Court’s order restraining the entry of the public. Jayalalithaa’s legal heirs J. Deepa and J. Deepak (niece and nephew) had objected to the inauguration on the grounds that the inventory of the articles in the bungalow had not been taken in their presence. “Only the main gates to the bungalow should be opened and the participants should access only the garden,” the court had ruled on Wednesday. It directed that the keys of the premises be handed over to the High Court Registrar-General after the ceremony. ‘Veda Nilayam’ was once considered one of the nerve centres of Dravidian politics; many national and regional leaders had visited Jayalalithaa here. It was from here that she was rushed on the night of September 22, 2016, to a private hospital, where she died on December 5 that year. Hundreds of AIADMK workers and Jayalalithaa’s admirers were disappointed after they were stopped from entering her residence. Speaker P. Dhanapal, Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam, members of the Cabinet, Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam and senior officials participated in the event. Unveiling her statue, Mr. Palaniswami said Jayalalithaa’s birth anniversary on February 24 would be observed as a government function every year. He said the government was taking steps to amend the Indian Penal Code, with the concurrence of the Centre, to increase the punishment for crimes against women and children. He also renamed the campus after the former Chief Minister. Jayalalithaa’s legal heirs J. Deepa and J. Deepak (niece and nephew) had objected to the inauguration on the grounds that the inventory of the articles in the bungalow was not taken in their presence. “Only the main gates to the bungalow should be opened and the participants should access only the garden,” the court had ruled on Wednesday. It had directed that the keys of the premises be handed over to the High Court Registrar-General after the ceremony. ‘Veda Nilayam’ was once considered one of the nerve centres of Dravidian politics; even many national and regional leaders had visited Jayalalithaa here. It was from here that she was rushed on the night of September 22, 2016, to a private hospital, where she died on December 5 that year. Hundreds of AIADMK workers and Jayalalithaa’s admirers were disappointed after they were stopped from entering her residence. Assembly Speaker P. Dhanapal, Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam, members of the Cabinet, Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam and senior officials participated in the event. Unveiling her statue on Kamarajar Salai, Mr. Palaniswami said Jayalalithaa’s birth anniversary on February 24 would be observed as a government function every year. “Floral tributes would be paid at the statue on behalf of the State government on her birth anniversary every year,” he said. He said the government was taking steps to amend the Indian Penal Code, with the concurrence of the Centre, to increase the punishment for crimes against women and children. Mr. Palaniswami also renamed the campus after the former Chief Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/veda-nilayam-is-now-a-memorial-for-jayalalithaa/article33689509.ece
29 January 2021||Aurangabad,||Samples of peacocks found dead in Beed district test positive for bird flu||The samples of some peacocks found dead in Maharashtra’s Beed district a few days ago had tested positive for avian influenza, an official said on Thursday. Three peacocks, two peahens, and another wild bird were found dead in Loni village close to Balaghat mountain range in Shirur Kasar taluka of Beed on January 22, the official said. “The samples of these dead birds were sent to labs for analysis to check if they died due to avian flu. Their samples have tested positive for the bird flu infection,” he said. Dr. Pradip Aghav, an animal husbandry department official, said that after this confirmation, samples within 10 km periphery of the spot, where these birds were found dead, were being collected. “We have collected nearly 113 samples from the area and they are being sent for analysis,” he said. “Eight more peacocks were found dead in the nearby area after January 22, but they tested negative for bird flu. Their samples will be analysed to find out whether these birds were poisoned,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/samples-of-peacocks-found-dead-in-beed-district-test-positive-for-bird-flu/article33689926.ece
29 January 2021||Mumbai,||BJP comes under fire after its Karnataka leader calls for declaring Mumbai a UT||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) came in for criticism in Maharashtra on Thursday after its Karnataka leader and Deputy Chief Minister Laxman Savadi said that Mumbai should be declared a Union Territory. “Earlier, we (parts of Belagavi) were part of the Mumbai region. My demand and that of the people of this region is that Mumbai should be attached to Karnataka. I further demand that the Centre ensure that Mumbai is declared a Union Territory,” Mr. Savadi reportedly said. His statement comes a day after Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray said that the disputed border areas of Belagavi, Nipani and Karwar should be declared a Union Territory since the dispute was being heard by the Supreme Court. “Ideally status quo must be maintained in an area where the dispute is being heard by the apex court. But the Karantaka government renamed Belgaum, gave it the status of second capitol of the State and, it holds its Assembly session there. Doesn’t it amount to disrespecting the court?” Mr. Thackeray asked on Wednesday. Maharashtra Deputy CM Ajit Pawar reacted to his Karnataka counterpart’s remarks, saying Mr. Savadi’s statement was aimed at appeasing voters and shouldn’t be given importance at all. “Mumbai is part of Maharashtra and will remain so. There is no force that will separate Mumbai from the State,” Mr. Pawar said. Shiv Sena Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Raut urged Mr. Savadi to come to Mumbai and speak to Kannada-speaking industrialists and hoteliers to know about their opinion. “There are Kannada schools and institutions in Mumbai which get support from the State government. Has the Karnataka government ever supported Marathi schools in that State?” Mr. Raut asked. The Congress warned the BJP that disrespecting the sacrifice of 105 martyrs who had fought for a united Maharashtra would cost the party dearly. “The BJP leader’s statement exposes a sinister plan of his party. The BJP is on a mission to defame the Mumbai Police, the film industry, and now plans to separate Mumbai as a Union Territory. This will cost the BJP in Maharashtra,” Congress general secretary Sachin Sawant said. NCP spokesperson Mahesh Tapase wanted to know whether the Maharashtra BJP endorses the statement made by Mr. Savadi. “If you (BJP) condemn Mr. Savadi’s remarks then you should reply to him at the earliest,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bjp-comes-under-fire-after-its-karnataka-leader-calls-for-declaring-mumbai-a-ut/article33689921.ece
29 January 2021||Indore,||High Court denies bail to comedian Faruqui||The Madhya Pradesh High Court on Thursday refused bail to comedian Munawar Faruqui, who is accused of passing “indecent” remarks about Hindu deities during a show, and noted that to “promote harmony” is a constitutional duty. Liberty of a person has to be “balanced” with his duties towards other citizens, Justice Rohit Arya of the Indore bench of the High Court said, citing a Supreme Court ruling. The court also turned down the bail plea of Nalin Yadav, another accused in the case. Faruqui and four others were arrested on January 1 following a complaint by a BJP MLA’s son that objectionable remarks about Hindu deities and Union Home Minister Amit Shah were passed during a comedy show at a cafe in Indore on New Year's day. One more person was arrested subsequently. Faruqui and Yadav are in judicial remand and lodged in Indore Central Jail. A magistrate’s court and a sessions court had rejected earlier their bail pleas, following which they moved the High Court. In its order, the High Court said it would not comment on merits of the case, but based on the material seized, the witnesses’ statements and considering the fact that probe was going on, no case is made out for grant of bail.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mp-high-court-denies-bail-to-comedian-faruqui/article33689469.ece
29 January 2021||CHENNAI,||‘Veda Nilayam’ is now a memorial||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Thursday inaugurated the memorial established by the government at former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa’s residence ‘Veda Nilayam’ at Poes Garden. He also unveiled a life-size bronze statue of Jayalalithaa on the campus of the Tamil Nadu State Council for Higher Education, and said her birth anniversary would henceforth be observed by the government. The inauguration was a low-key event, in view of the Madras HC’s order restraining the entry of the public.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/veda-nilayam-is-now-a-memorial/article33689597.ece
29 January 2021||Mumbai,||Four foreigners arrested in fake job racket||Four foreign nationals have been arrested from Pune for allegedly cheating several people of lakhs of rupees with the promise of jobs abroad, police said on Thursday. A team of the cyber police from the Mumbai Crime Branch raided a flat in Undri area of Pune and apprehended the four accused on Wednesday. The arrested accused include Nigerian and West African nationals who allegedly got in touch with at least 2,000 job seekers of various countries and cheated them. Fourteen mobile phones, four laptops, three memory cards, five routers, a data card, two international SIM cards were recovered from the premises. During the investigation, the police found that the accused had transferred at least Rs. 10 crore to a Nigerian bank. The accused had collected this amount from job seekers in the form of visa fees, programme fees, employment authorisation and travel allowance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/four-foreigners-arrested-in-fake-job-racket/article33689923.ece
29 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Congress begins seat-sharing talks||The Congress on Thursday initiated preliminary seat-sharing discussions with coalition partners. Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala held closed-door meetings with Kerala Congress leader P.J. Joseph. By one account, the Joseph faction has staked a claim for 15 seats. Mr. Joseph’s faction has claimed that the rank and file of the party remained with it. The party needed to accommodate leaders who kept faith in Mr. Joseph. The defection was only at the level of Jose K. Mani. Mr. Joseph, Mons Joseph and Joy Abraham were present. The Revolutionary Socialist Party (RSP) has reportedly sought seven instead of the five customary seats. The Kerala Congress (Jacob) has also sought three seats. The Congress had not given any commitments. The talks would continue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/congress-begins-seat-sharing-talks/article33689783.ece
29 January 2021||HUBBALLI,||Take remedial measures to bring down IMR, MMR, health officials told||Considering the high Maternal Mortality Rate (MMR) and Infant Mortality Rate (IMR), Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad Nitesh Patil has asked the health officials and medical practitioners in the district to take remedial measures to bring down both MMR and IMR. Chairing a review meeting on Reproductive and Child Health (RCH) programme in Dharwad on Thursday, Mr. Nitesh Patil asked the health officials and medical practitioners to ensure that there is no loss of lives in the district due to medical negligence. Last week, during a review meeting in Dharwad, Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar had raised concern over the high MMR and IMR in the district. Mr. Patil said that pregnant women who required emergency healthcare should be immediately shifted to super-speciality hospitals and utmost medical care should be provided. As per data, till December 31 last year, 24,549 deliveries took place in the district out of which 57 deaths of mothers and 337 deaths of infants were reported. The Deputy Commissioner said that the doctors, during routine check-up, should do proper diagnosis and if any pregnant woman was diagnosed as anaemic or with other health issues, they should be referred to super-speciality hospitals. He told them that the district administration would review the steps taken to check MMR and IMR on a monthly basis. During the meeting, Mr. Patil also asked the officials to submit a report on hospitals where over 30 % Caesarean sections take place. Director of Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS) and Hospital Ramalingappa Antaratani said that the doctors had a bigger role to play in bringing down IMR and MMR. He said that in complicated cases both mother and infant could be saved through balloon delivery procedure and other medical procedures and urged the doctors to get themselves updated on a regular basis. Pulse Polio drive The Deputy Commissioner said that 900 centres would be set up for immunisation during the polio vaccination drive to be held in the district from January 31 till February 4. A total of 2.11 lakh children below the age of five have been identified for polio immunisation and health staff will be visiting households from February 1 to 3, he said. Health officials and medical practitioners were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/take-remedial-measures-to-bring-down-imr-mmr-health-officials-told/article33689700.ece
29 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||3 names for SEC Secy. post||Chief Secretary Aditya Nath Das has proposed the names of IAS officers G.S.R.K.R. Vijay Kumar, K. Kanna Babu and P. Raja Babu for appointment of one of them as Secretary to the State Election Commission as requested by it, according to a communication sent by the Chief Secretary to State Election Commissioner N. Ramesh Kumar on Thursday. The newly-appointed secretary will be assisting the commissioner in conducting Gram Panchayat elections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cs-forwards-3-names-for-sec-secretary-post/article33689419.ece
29 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Pressure rises on farmers to move out||After two months of protests without any significant pushback, the farmers’ agitation on the borders of Delhi is now seeing concerted pressure and intimidation from the police, as well as local villagers and administrations, to force them to vacate multiple dharna locations. Putting farm unions further on the backfoot in the wake of Republic Day violence, show-cause notices have been issued to union leaders, six of whom have been summoned to join the probe at the Delhi Police Special Cell office on Friday. Thousands of farmers were engaged in a stand-off with the Uttar Pradesh police on the Ghazipur border with Delhi on Thursday after the Ghaziabad administration issued an ultimatum that if the protesters do not leave by midnight, they will be removed forcibly. An emotional Rakesh Tikait, leader of one faction of the Bharatiya Kisan Union, declared that “if the black laws were not taken back and he was forcibly removed from the site, he would end his life.” Electricity and water supply to the protest site were cut earlier in the day, and local residents have been demanding that they clear the road as well. The two largest protest sites, at Tikri and Singhu on the Haryana border, saw an increased deployment of security forces through the day. A group of people, claiming to be residents of nearby villages, staged a demonstration against the agitation at Singhu, demanding that the inter-State highway be cleared. “It appears that the government is trying to attack from all sides,” said Kavitha Kuruganti, a leader of the Mahila Kisan Adhikaar Manch, who is at the Singhu border. “Supplies and facilities being squeezed in different locations, communication being curtailed severely and setting up local people to protest, apart from getting eviction orders and attempting the same.” SKM leaders undertook a Sadbhavana or Goodwill Yatra for 16 km from the Singhu border on the road towards Sonepat, flying the tricolour and using loudspeakers to broadcast the message that “patriotism and nationalism are not the sole claims of only some people, and that it is from farmer households that India’s jawans also emerge and guard the nation, and that farmers are equally patriotic if not more.”  (With inputs from Anuj Kumar, Shinjini Ghosh, Ashok Kumar and Priscilla Jebaraj and Saurabh Trivedi)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/farmers-under-pressure-to-move-out/article33689358.ece
29 January 2021||Houston,||Indian-origin paediatrician shoots doctor, kills self in U.S.||A 43-year-old Indian-American pediatrician diagnosed with terminal cancer shot dead a lady doctor and then killed himself after taking hostages at a medical office in Austin, according to police in the capital city of the U.S. State of Texas. The armed man was identified as Dr. Bharat Narumanchi, police said, adding that he had also recently been turned down for a volunteer position at the medical facility. Initially several hostages were held, police said, but many escaped and others were allowed to leave, except a paediatrician named Katherine Dodson. The hostages who escaped told police that the man was armed with a pistol and what appeared to be a shotgun. He also had two duffel bags. Dr. Narumanchi had visited the CMG office a week ago and applied for a volunteer position. The suspect had terminal cancer and had only been given weeks to live, Lt. Jeff Greenwalt of Austin police told reporters. “So we feel like his terminal cancer probably played a large part in whatever it was that occurred in his life and what was happening yesterday,” he said. But for now, Lt. Greenwalt said, investigators are still trying to unravel what could have led to the hostage situation. He called for any of the doctor's family and friends who might have knowledge about Dr. Narumanchi to contact the homicide department. Earlier, police said hostage negotiators tried to make contact with Dr. Narumanchi, but were unsuccessful. After repeated attempts, SWAT (special weapons and tactic) officers entered the building where they found Dodson and Narumanchi dead from apparent gunshot wounds. “It appeared that Dr. Narumanchi shot himself after shooting Dr Dodson,” according to the police department's news release. The incident is still under investigation. “There were five people inside the building when the suspect arrived," Lt. Greenwalt said, adding that they were all employees and no children or patients were present when the incident happened.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/indian-origin-paediatrician-shoots-doctor-kills-self-in-us-hostage-drama/article33689435.ece
29 January 2021||January 29 2021 00:00 IST,||In the snow lane||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/in-the-snow-lane/article33689951.ece
29 January 2021||January 29 2021 00:00 IST,||A sign of things to come||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/a-sign-of-things-to-come/article33689789.ece
29 January 2021||Hassan,||Man trampled to death||A man was trampled to death by a tusker in Arkalgud range on Wednesday. Revanna, 40, of Kantenahalli in Arkalgud taluk, was an employee at a coffee curing unit in Somwarpet. He was returning home around 9.30 p.m. on a bike with a friend when they encountered the elephant. His friend Sathish, who was riding the bike, managed to escape. K.N. Basavaraj, Deputy Conservator of Forests in Hassan, said Revanna is survived by his wife, Sunitha, and two children.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/man-trampled-to-death/article33689935.ece
29 January 2021||Hyderabad,||Intermediate exams from May 1||Intermediate examinations 2021 will begin on May 1 and end on May 19. The exams will begin with first-year second language paper on May 1 followed by the second-year second language paper on May 2, according to the schedule released by Education Minister, P. Sabitha Indra Reddy here on Thursday. Timings The examinations would be held from 9 a.m to 12 noon for both the years. According to the schedule, the first-year papers will be held from May 1 to 19 and the second-year exams from May 2 to 20. However, all the major exams of both the years will be completed on May 13. The Minister said practical exams will be held from April 7 to 20. Two other subjects whose marks will not be considered in the final scores but must be taken by the students will be held in April. The Ethics and Human Values examination is scheduled for April 1 and the Environmental Education paper will be held on April 3.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/intermediate-exams-in-telangana-from-may-1/article33689734.ece
29 January 2021||January 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Carrying on undeterred||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/carrying-on-undeterred/article33689736.ece
29 January 2021||Indore,||HC denies bail to comedian Faruqui||The Madhya Pradesh High Court on Thursday refused bail to comedian Munawar Faruqui who is accused of passing “indecent” remarks about Hindu deities during a show, and noted that to “promote harmony” is a constitutional duty. Liberty of a person has to be “balanced” with his duties towards other citizens, Justice Rohit Arya of the Indore bench of the High Court said, citing a Supreme Court ruling. The court also turned down the bail plea of Nalin Yadav, another accused in the case. Faruqui and Yadav are in judicial remand and lodged in Indore Central Jail.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hc-denies-bail-to-comedian-faruqui/article33689432.ece
29 January 2021||new delhi,||Protesters face pressure to leave||Farmers are facing pressure pressure from the police, local administration and villagers to vacate multiple dharna sites. While the Ghaziabad administration issued an ultimatum to a group of protesters to leave by midnight on Thursday, hundreds of others were forced to leave their sit-in site at Palwal after the Haryana police served them notices.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/protesters-face-pressure-to-leave/article33689436.ece
29 January 2021||New Delhi,||‘Omar Saeed’s acquittal shows Pak. intent’||The acquittal of terror accused Ahmed Omar Saeed Sheikh “demonstrates” the real intent of Pakistan on acting against terror elements based in that country, said an official of the Ministry of External Affairs on Thursday. Addressing the weekly press briefing online, Official Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said India continues to call upon Pakistan for “verifiable” action against terror masterminds. “This case truly demonstrates Pakistan’s intent on taking action on terror front. It is a travesty of justice not to find Omar Saeed guilty of any charges in this heinous act of terror. ,” said Mr. Srivastava.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/omar-saeeds-acquittal-shows-pak-intent/article33689952.ece
29 January 2021||January 29 2021 00:00 IST,||186 fresh COVID cases in TS||Telangana reported 186 fresh cases of coronavirus, taking the total to nearly 2.94 lakh while one related fatality pushed the toll to 1,594. The total number of coronavirus cases stood at 2,93,923 while recoveries were at 2,89,631. As many as 2,698 patients are under treatment and 31,119 samples were tested on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/186-fresh-covid-cases-in-ts/article33689730.ece
29 January 2021||Chennai,||CM launches e-bikes, next gen bicycles||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Thursday launched e-bikes and next gen bikes here. E-bike users have to pay Rs. 10 for the first 10 minutes and Rs. 1 for every subsequent minute. For next gen and eco bikes, Rs. 5.5 will be charged for the first hour.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cm-launches-e-bikes-next-gen-bicycles/article33689512.ece
29 January 2021||New Delhi,||Court rejects Natasha Narwal’s bail plea||A Delhi court on Thursday rejected the bail plea of JNU student and Pinjra Tod member Natasha Narwal, booked under UAPA in a north-east Delhi riots case. Ms. Narwal was arrested on May 23 last year in relation to an FIR over the sit-in protest against the CAA.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/court-rejects-natasha-narwals-bail-plea/article33689598.ece
29 January 2021||Kolkata,||Bengal polls: Cong., Left agree to share 193 seats||The Left parties and the Congress on Thursday agreed on seat-sharing in almost two-thirds of the Assembly seats in West Bengal — 193 of the 294 seats. Of the 193, the Congress will contest 92 and the Left 101. State Congress president Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury and Left Front leader Biman Basu made the announcement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bengal-polls-cong-left-agree-to-share-193-seats/article33689599.ece
29 January 2021||Kolkata,||Mamata upset with Soren for campaigning in State||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday expressed her displeasure over Jharkhand Chief Minister Hemant Soren campaigning in the State ahead of the Assembly polls. The Jharkhand Mukti Morcha leader has started campaigning in Jhargram, a tribal-dominated area in south Bengal. “I felt bad today that Hemant Soren came to Bengal to do politics. I participated in his swearing-in ceremony,” Ms. Banerjee said at a political event at Trinamool Congress headquarters. “He (Mr. Soren) should manage Jharkhand first before coming to Bengal. He came today because he wants candidates for his party. We gave the people education, food, everything and he wants votes, this will not happen,” Ms. Banerjee said. During the day, Ms. Banerjee tried to reach out to ‘Hindi Bhasi (Hindi-speaking)’ people of West Bengal. Representatives of the community were invited at the TMC headquarters and she addressed them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mamata-upset-with-soren-for-campaigning-in-state/article33689868.ece
29 January 2021||Pune,||Mumbai nearby||Exhorting Maharashtra’s leaders to stop indulging in politics over the Maratha quota, BJP Rajya Sabha MP Udayanraje Bhosale has said that the delay in implementing the reservation law could spark uncontrollable outrage among the community in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mumbai-nearby/article33689922.ece
29 January 2021||Mumbai,||Second Mumbai nearby||The NIA told the Bombay High Court on Thursday that poet Varavara Rao was an accused in a case of national security and while considering his ill health and plea for bail on medical grounds, it must not lose sight of the seriousness of the offence. The NIA made the submission while opposing the bail plea of Mr. Rao.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/second-mumbai-nearby/article33689924.ece
29 January 2021||HUBBALLI,||Women seek liquor ban||Staging a demonstration in front of the office of the Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad, scores of women sought total ban on sale of illicit liquor. The women said that the sale of illicit liquor is going on unabated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/women-seek-liquor-ban/article33689701.ece
29 January 2021||KALABURAGI,||Nirmala urged to consider KK region demands||HKCCI has written to Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman urging her to incorporate the demands concerning Kalyana Karnataka region in the Union Budget for 2021-22.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/nirmala-urged-to-consider-kk-region-demands/article33689703.ece
29 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Core values are being subverted: Hamid Ansari||Former Vice-President Hamid Ansari has said a subversion of core values is under way and the word secularism has “almost disappeared” from the government’s official vocabulary. Mr. Ansari wrote in his autobiography, By Many A Happy Accident , that this subversion was “compounded by the failure of other social and political forces to comp-rehend its true nature and the urgency to counter it”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/core-values-are-being-subverted-hamid-ansari/article33689603.ece
29 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Apex court dismisses Vishwanath’s appeal||The Supreme Court on Thursday dismissed an appeal filed by BJP leader and MLC A.H. Vishwanath against a State High Court order disqualifying him from being appointed a Minister. A Bench led by Chief Justice of India Sharad A. Bobde said the disqualification would hold if a person is only nominated as an MLC and not elected.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/apex-court-dismisses-vishwanaths-appeal/article33689458.ece
29 January 2021||Bengaluru,||‘One Nation One Card’ for Bengaluru: Governor||Governor Vajubhai R. Vala said on Thursday said that the long-awaited single mobility card for metro train and bus users in Bengaluru will be rolled out this year. Mr. Vala was addressing the joint session of the State legislature.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/one-nation-one-card-for-bengaluru-governor/article33689460.ece
29 January 2021||Chennai,||Around Rs. 480 crore spent on RT-PCR kits||Tamil Nadu has so far spent approximately Rs. 480 crore on procuring RT-PCR testing kits for COVID-19. It has placed direct orders for 1,09,03,428 testing kits through the Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation. The State has been relying only on RT-PCR kits for diagnosis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/around-rs-480-crore-spent-on-rt-pcr-kits/article33689507.ece
29 January 2021||Chennai,||T.N. records 503 fresh COVID-19 cases, 6 deaths||Tamil Nadu reported 503 new cases of COVID-19 on Thursday, taking its tally to 8,36,818. Of the fresh cases, Chennai accounted for 151. While another 544 persons were discharged, six persons died. At present, 4,629 persons are under treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tn-records-503-fresh-covid-19-cases-6-deaths/article33689511.ece
29 January 2021||Chennai,||3 private colleges under Health Department||The Higher Education Department has issued an order transferring the Rajah Muthiah Medical College and Hospital, the Rani Meyyammai College of Nursing and the Rajah Muthiah Dental College and Hospital to the Health Department. Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam in his 2020-2021 Budget speech had made an announcement in this regard.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/3-private-colleges-under-health-department/article33689513.ece
29 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Show us the provision which withdraws MSP, SC tells MP||The Supreme Court on Thursday challenged Congress MP from Kerala T.N. Prathapan to pick out the specific provision in the new agriculture laws which says farmers will not get Minimum Support Price (MSP) for their products. A three-judge Bench, led by Chief Justice Sharad A. Bobde, questioned the MP after the latter’s lawyer submitted that “without MSP, farmers cannot survive”. Mr. Prathapan, in his petition, said the law opens the door for “corporate greed of multinational companies” to trample on agriculture markets. “So you want the old regime to continue... Show us the provision which withdraws MSP,” Chief Justice Bobde asked the parliamentarian’s lawyer. The court finally asked the Centre to respond to the petition and tagged it with other pleas challenging the farm laws. In his petition, Mr. Prathapan contended that the laws were merely a ruse to subvert the Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) system. “Without the APMC acting as a protective shield around the farmers, the market would ultimately fall to the corporate greed of multinational companies, who are more profit-oriented and have no care for the conditions of the poverty-stricken farmers who are dependent on farming for their livelihood,” the petition said. It said the APMC deterred the exploitation of the farmers by providing MSP. The vagaries of weather and inherent handicaps make agriculture risky and inefficient in respect of both input and output management. “These challenges cannot be addressed by way of monetisation of the farmer’s produce to increase the income. Instead, strengthening the existing APMC system by infusing more capital and effective management of MSP is the need of the hour. The promotion of agreements for farm produce will weaken the process of monetisation as per the current structure of The Farmers’ (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020,” he submitted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/show-us-the-provision-which-withdraws-msp-sc-tells-mp/article33689336.ece
29 January 2021||New Delhi,||Farmers face pushback at protest sites||There was a confrontation-like situation on the Singhu border on Thursday when a group of people, claiming to be locals, staged a demonstration against the farmers’ agitation demanding that the inter-State highway be cleared. As the agitation was nearing the two-month mark, heavy security was deployed and all entry points to the protest site were barricaded by security personnel, with farmers on one side and the locals on the other. Mahesh Chauhan, a resident of the Palla village, said, “The road has been blocked for over two months now and it is causing inconvenience to all, including labourers and villages.” “We want the road cleared. Today, we have come as a relatively small group. Tomorrow, a larger number of villagers will be gathering here,” he added. Meanwhile, the stand-off between the Ghaziabad administration and farmer unions continued at the Ghazipur border late on Thursday following orders to vacate the site. After the Additional District Magistrate (ADM) served a notice under Section 133 of Cr.PC, District Magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey gave the unions time till midnight to vacate the spot that has been the centre for anti-farm law protests for more than two months. With a heavy deployment of police and paramilitary forces, the U.P. Gate turned into a police cantonment. Section 144 was also imposed at the site.   (With inputs from   Anuj Kumar at Ghaziabad)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/farmers-face-pushback-at-protest-sites/article33689413.ece
29 January 2021||New Delhi,||COVID-19 curve flattened, says Minister||India has flattened its COVID-19 graph and 146 districts recorded no new cases in the last seven days, 18 districts in 14 days, six districts in 21 days and 21 districts in 28 days, said Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Thursday. The Minister chaired the 23rd meeting of the high-level Group of Ministers (GoM) on COVID-19 via video-conferencing and noted that fewer than 12,000 cases were reported in the last 24 hours and the active caseload had reduced to just 1.73 lakh, as per a release issued by the Ministry. Dr. Vardhan added that out of the total active cases, 0.46% were on ventilators, 2.20% in ICU and 3.02% on oxygen support. As many as 165 cases of the U.K. variant were reported and the patients were under supervised quarantine and surveillance. At the meeting, Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan presented the logistics of the vaccination exercise and the gains made so far. He said that 112.4 lakh doses of COVID vaccines were distributed to States/UTs three days ahead of the exercise. “Additional 115.6 lakh doses to States/UTs were completed on January 20 and 69,000 programme managers, 2.5 lakh vaccinators and 4.4 lakh other team members have been trained so far,” he said. Mr. Bhushan added that 93,76,030 healthcare workers and 53,94,098 frontline workers were registered on the Co-WIN portal. NITI Aayog member (Health) V.K. Paul informed that India currently stood at sixth in vaccination coverage and would move to third place in the next few days. “Sixteen AEFI [adverse event following immunisation] hospitalisations out of 23 lakh vaccinations so far translates to just 0.0007%, with no case of severe/serious AEFI or death due to vaccination reported so far,” said Dr. Paul.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/covid-19-curve-flattened-says-minister/article33689384.ece
29 January 2021||Ghaziabad,||Stand-off continues at Ghazipur border||The stand-off between the Ghaziabad administration and farmer unions continued at the Ghazipur border till late on Thursday night. After the Additional District Magistrate served a notice under Section 133 of CrPC, District Magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey gave the unions time till midnight to vacate the spot that has been the centre of anti-farm law protests for more than two months. With heavy deployment of police and paramilitary forces, the U.P. Gate turned into a police cantonment. Section 144 was also imposed at the site. The farmer leaders repeatedly made emotional appeals from the stage to the protesters to stay put but the numbers gradually thinned out as the evening progressed. An emotional Mr. Tikait said he would not leave the site. He feared for the safety of farmers after his arrest. He reminded that the Supreme Court had not passed any order on the removal of protesters. “The district administration could not be bigger than the SC. We would move the SC against the district administration tomorrow,” he said. He alleged that in the name of arrest there was a plot to eliminate him. “We want a judicial inquiry into the Red Fort incident. Deep Sidhu has already been socially boycotted,” he said. Sources in the administration said it was a matter of time before the space was vacated. “We are trying to carry out the process peacefully. Farmers are packing up. They are some women in the tents and the langars will take some time to be vacated,” said Shailendra Singh, ADM (City) Ghaziabad. He said the leaders were trying to delay the process to save their skins. “There is visual evidence that proves one of the leader’s presence at the Red Fort during the Republic Day clashes.” Sources in the administration said farmer leaders were negotiating for safe passage with them while taking a tough stand on the stage. Earlier, leaders of the Bhartiya Kisan Union alleged that the administration was trying to vitiate the atmosphere by creating a BJP-sponsored violence at the protest site. Dharmendra Malik, media incharge of the BKU, claimed that the BJP MLA from Loni was seen at the site with his followers and tried to intimidate the farmers. He said the process started late on Wednesday night when the electricity supply was cut and CCTV cameras were gradually removed.  Charge refuted Mr. Pandey refuted the charge and said they were local businessmen who wanted to get their road vacated. Prashant Kumar, ADG (Law & Order), said the perpetrators of Delhi violence would not be allowed to take shelter in the State. Later, Mr. Tikait decided to sit on an indefinite fast. He said he would only drink water from his village. Meanwhile, his elder brother Naresh Tikait has called a mahapanchayat in their native village in Muzaffarnagar where he appealed to the farmers from Western U.P. to reach Ghazipur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/stand-off-continues-at-ghazipur-border/article33689605.ece
29 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Kerala to deploy more police to check violations||The government has decided to tighten COVID-19 control measures in the community and to deploy more police force to tackle violations of protocols. From Friday till February 10, 25,000 police personnel would be additionally deployed across the State at public places, shopping malls and markets to ensure that people were following the rules of physical distancing and that masks were worn by everyone properly, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said here on Thursday. Sectoral magistrates had already been given charge of COVID-19 control and they would be assisted by the police in enforcing regulations. Public meetings and functions such as weddings should not be conducted in indoor venues as far as possible. Outdoor venues may be chosen for the same, provided people still maintain physical distancing. Mr. Vijayan appealed to the people to avoid night-time travel and to avoid going out after 10 p.m. as far as possible. He said that even though COVID-19 cases were on the increase, the public health system was still very much in control of things. Disease transmission had not grown to an extent that the health system got overwhelmed. The government was functioning in a very transparent manner as far as COVID-related matters were concerned, he said. Only 3% infected He said that as per the official data, only less than 3% of the State’s population have been infected by COVID-19. Given the nature of the pandemic, it was but natural that wherever there were susceptible people, disease transmission would go up, he said. Only the data from the new seroprevalence study will reveal the actual extent of disease transmission, Mr. Vijayan said. The government has decided to increase tests and to conduct more RT-PCR tests in the community to detect infectious persons. The Health Department has launched a campaign, “Back to Basics” to encourage people to go back to the initial days when people were more conscious about COVID-19 and were willing to follow all restrictions. People should test themselves for COVID-19 if at all they develop symptoms of fever or respiratory illness and cooperate with the authorities for follow-up measures, Mr. Vijayan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kerala-to-deploy-more-police-to-check-violations/article33689346.ece
29 January 2021||January 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Jaishankar suggests way forward for China ties||External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar said on Thursday a recognition of “mutual respect, mutual sensitivity and mutual interests” was key to repairing India-China relations, after what he called a year of “exceptional stress” in a relationship “profoundly disturbed” by the border crisis. China’s actions last year had “not only signalled a disregard for commitments about minimising troop levels” but also “showed a willingness to breach the peace and tranquillity” on the border that had been the foundation for the relationship, he said at the start of the All India Conference of China Studies (AICCS) organised by the Institute of Chinese Studies (ICS), Delhi and Indian Institute of Technology, Madras (IIT-M) China Studies Centre. “For all the differences and disagreements that we may have had on the boundary,” the External Affairs Minister said, “the central fact was that border areas still remained fundamentally peaceful,” with the last incident of a loss of life in 1975, prior to 2020. The relationship, he said, “is today truly at a crossroads” and “choices that are made will have profound repercussions, not just for the two nations but for the entire world.” Twenty Indian soldiers, and an unknown number of Chinese soldiers, lost their lives in a clash on June 15 last year in the Galwan Valley, following tensions that erupted in early May triggered by transgressions by China across the Line of Actual Control (LAC), massing of troops, and what India has described as a unilateral attempt to redraw the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in several areas in eastern Ladakh. This was why last year’s events, the Minister said, had “so profoundly disturbed the relationship”, impacting public and political opinion. Until now, India was “yet to receive a credible explanation for the change in China’s stance or reasons for massing of troops in the border areas”. Even before the events of 2020, the relationship had reflected “a duality of cooperation and competition”. While both sides had made a common cause on development and economic issues and common membership of plurilateral groups was a meeting point, there were divergences when it came to interests and aspirations. He cited as examples China’s issuing of stapled visas to Indian citizens from Jammu and Kashmir in 2010, a reluctance from China to deal with some of India’s military commands (Beijing had that same year refused to host the Northern Army Commander), China’s opposition to India’s membership of the Nuclear Suppliers Group and the UN Security Council as a permanent member, the blocking of UN listings of Pakistani terrorists, and the China Pakistan Economic Corridor, a flagship project under China’s Belt and Road Initiative, violating India’s sovereignty in J&K. Over the years, he said, there was no significant progress of arriving at a common understanding of the alignment of the LAC, while there was “increasing construction of border infrastructure, especially on the Chinese side.” India, he added, had made efforts to reduce the considerable infrastructure gap since 2014, including through greater budget commitments and road building. The External Affairs Minister suggested “three mutuals” and “eight broad propositions” as a way forward for the relationship. “Mutual respect, mutual sensitivity and mutual interests” were “determining factors”. The first proposition, he said, was that agreements already reached must be adhered to in their entirety, both in letter and spirit. Both sides also needed to strictly observe and respect the LAC, and any attempt to unilaterally change the status quo was completely unacceptable. Peace and tranquillity in border areas was the basis for the development of the relationship in other domains. If that was disturbed, he said, the rest of the relationship would be too. The fourth proposition, he said, was that while both remain committed to a multipolar world, they should recognise that a multipolar Asia was one of its essential constituents. While each state had its interests, concerns and priorities, sensitivities to them could not be be one-sided and relations were reciprocal in nature. As rising powers, neither should ignore the other’s set of aspirations, he added. While there “will always be divergence and differences”, their management is essential to ties, Mr. Jaishankar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/jaishankar-suggests-way-forward-for-china-ties/article33689382.ece
29 January 2021||Kolkata,||West Bengal Assembly demands repeal of farm laws||The West Bengal Assembly on Thursday passed a resolution extending support to farmers protesting in the national capital and demanding the repeal of three farm laws passed by Centre. The State’s Minister for Parliamentary Affairs, Partha Chatterjee, moved a government resolution under Rule 169 urging the Centre that the three laws be repealed. Speaking on the resolution, Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee said the BJP government should either withdraw the farm laws or step down. She also accused the BJP government of passing these laws without much discussion. Referring to the developments in Delhi on January 26, the Chief Minister said there was prior permission for march, but the police could not handle it properly. “Delhi Police are to be blamed for the violence. What was Delhi Police doing ? It was intelligence failure. We will not tolerate farmers being branded as traitors. We will never tolerate that,” she said. Ms. Banerjee said there were attempts to malign the protesting farmers, and demanded an investigation in the whole issue. She said the Union government was responsible for the violence that occurred on January 26 and added that she had spoken to the protesting farmers in Delhi. Ms. Banerjee also tried out to reach out to the Left and the Congress, stating that they might have ideological differences but for the issue of farmers they must come together. “Either you [Union government] accept the demands of farmers or resign,” the Chief Minister said addressing a gathering later in the day. While the Chief Minister was speaking in the House, the MLAs of the BJP descended to the Well of the house, raising slogans. Later they staged a walkout.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/west-bengal-assembly-demands-repeal-of-farm-laws/article33689411.ece
29 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||BJP eyes up to 30 seats in Assembly polls||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) seeks to emerge as a deciding factor in what it says would be a tight three-cornered fight in the upcoming Assembly elections. It aspires to register a win in at least 30 constituencies and tip the electoral balance in several more. BJP district president V.V. Rajesh explains the rationale behind the projection. The BJP garnered more than 30,000 votes in 11 Assembly constituencies in Thiruvananthapuram district alone, going by the local body elections’ polling statistics. The party registered an increase in its vote share in varying degrees across Kerala. It held all the cards for now and could play a pivotal role in the high-stakes triangular contest. Poll strategy BJP president J. P. Nadda is here on February 3 to finalise the selection of candidates. The BJP is likely to contest in 120 constituencies and apportion the rest to National Democratic Alliance (NDA) partners. BJP heavyweights Kummanam Rajasekharan, Union Minister of State for External Affairs V. Muraleedharan and P.K. Krishnadas are likely to be in the fray. The BJP seems mindful of the fact that the CPI(M) and the Congress would consolidate minority vote in their favour by portraying the BJP as a Hindu majoritarian force. The party hopes to offset the likelihood by garnering the lion’s share of Hindu votes – an estimated 55%. The BJP has also sensed an “increased acceptance’’ among Christians who constitute 17% of the electorate. Christians’ concern Mr. Surendran sometime ago told The Hindu that Christians shared the party’s concern about “love jihad”, national security, and “Islamisation” of Kerala society. Christian community leaders made a high-profile call on Prime Minister Narendra Modi in New Delhi recently. The CPI(M) and the Congress have attacked the BJP for the recurrent hike in fuel and LPG prices. It has also drawn flak in the State for the Citizenship Amendment Act and the farm laws. The BJP is under pressure to appear aligned with the livelihood issues of the people. Gold smuggling case centred election rhetoric alone might not help the party carry the day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-eyes-up-to-30-seats-in-assembly-polls/article33689817.ece
29 January 2021||HYDERABAD,||30 projects of TS, A.P. awaiting Railway Board nod||Indian Railways has made use of limited services during the pandemic to fast track key infrastructure repairs and works from last year. However, there are also some pending projects of Telugu States of Telangana and Andhra Pradesh awaiting final green signal from the Railway Board. While it is apparent that joint venture railway projects with the State governments, taken up with much enthusiasm by the previous railway dispensation are the ones which have not moved much, there are also other projects where detailed surveys were done yet works did not begin. In Telangana - the 136 km Adilabad-Armoor new line survey work started in 2008-09 and cost was pegged at Rs. 2,720 crore, this was revised to Rs. 4,109 crore in 2017 and has been pending since then. Altogether, 19 projects to be cleared by the RB. Here’s a glimpse: The Moula Ali - Bhongir, Moulali -Ghatkesar, Ghatkesar - Bhongir, 38 km, 12.80 km & 25.20 km was raised in 2014 with Moula Ali-Ghatkesar costing Rs. 92.11 crore and Ghatkesar-Bhongir Rs. 157.74. Dornakal-Manuguru doubling of 104 km with an updated cost of Rs. .861.68 crore was submitted in 2019. Kachiguda - Chityal, termed as ‘socially desirable project’ of 87 km costing Rs. 1,066.94 crore was submitted in 2011. Krishna - Vikarabad 119.10 km line cleared in 2012 at a cost of Rs. 783.96 crore and it was later proposed to deroute alignment between Narayanpet and Pargi stations of 73 km to take transport needs of cement plants. Work did not take off as Telangana government was asked to give land free or bear 50% of balance cost. Pagidipalli-Sankarpalli new line of 110 km at Rs. 1,351.44 crore and Patancheru - Adilabad 316.77 km costing Rs. 4,109.32 crore submitted in 2017. Secunderabad -Zaheerabad, also ‘socially desirable project’ of 63.5 km with revised cost of Rs. 456.39 crore and under the joint venture with TS pending since 2016. Vishnupuram (Macherla) - Vinukonda 66 km costing Rs. 555.30 crore submitted in 2012. Kondapalli (Penuballi)- Kothagudem 81.57 km costing Rs. 997.29 crore with AP supposed to share 18.33% for 65 km, TS 13% for 16.07 km submitted in 2019. Mahaboobnagar- Gooty double line 213.41 km costing Rs. 1,893.29 crore submitted in 2017. Secunderabad-Mudkhed-Adilabad double line 420 km costing Rs. 2,921.95 crore in 2019. Secunderabad-Kazipet third line 85.48 km costing Rs. 764.30 crore submitted in 2018. Bodhan-Latur Road 134.55 km costing Rs. 2,409.62 crore submitted last year.  There are about 11 works and some worth mentioning are - Gadwal–Macherla new line of 233/184.20 km costing Rs. 919.78 crore with either 13% or 1.87% cost sharing by the government submitted last year. Vishnupuram (Macherla)- Vinukonda 66 km costing Rs. 555.30 crore submitted in 2012. Jaggayyapeta Town (Mathampalli ) - Miryalaguda 65.90 km costing Rs. .221.76 crore with 33.33% sharing by the government in 2011. Tenali-Repalle double line of 37 km costing Rs. 259.91 crore with 50% cost sharing by the government. Pakala-Tirupati double line 41.94 km costing Rs. 871.15 crore in 2010. Mahaboobnagar-Gooty double line of 240 km costing Rs. 1,893.29 crore submitted in 2017. Dharmavaram- Pakala double line of 227.70 km costing Rs. 1,576.69 crore submitted last year. Singarayakonda-Kanigiri new line of 66.53 km costing Rs. 691.68 crore in 2018. Narsapur-Machilipatnam new line 85 km costing Rs. 1,540.62 crore submitted in 2017. Darsi-Narsaraopet new line of 65 km costing Rs. 1,347.26 crore submitted last year. “In recent times Railway Board’s focus has been on projects nearing completion for better utilisation of available funds rather then initiate new ones. Joint venture (JV) projects need push from both sides and it has not happened in these works,” disclosed senior railway officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/30-projects-of-ts-ap-awaiting-railway-board-nod/article33689462.ece
29 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Core values being subverted: Ansari||Former Vice-President Hamid Ansari has said a subversion of core values is under way and the word secularism has “almost disappeared” from the government’s official vocabulary. Mr. Ansari wrote in his autobiography, By Many A Happy Accident , that this subversion was “compounded by the abdication or failure of other social and political forces to comprehend its true nature and the urgency to counter it”. According to him, constitutional values such as a composite culture, fraternity and scientific temper had also seemingly disappeared from the political discourse and replaced by “promotion of beliefs and practices of the contrary”. Mr. Ansari, who had a distinguished career in the foreign service before becoming Vice-President, argued that the commitment to the rule of law appeared to be under serious threat. This, he said, arose out of a noticeable decline in the efficacy of state institutions, lapses into arbitrary decision-making and even mob rule. He said the success of populism, depicted not as an ideology but a strategy to obtain and retain power and thriving on conspiracy, criminalisation of all Opposition and playing up external threats, “proved itself” in the 2019 general election. “It was assisted by authoritarianism, nationalism and majoritarianism. This ideological potion, premised simplistically on the desirability of oneness of language, ethnicity, religion, territory and culture was administered successfully to a little over a third of the electorate,” he wrote. Unscheduled visit by PM Mr. Ansari revealed that one day Prime Minister Narendra Modi made an unscheduled visit to his Rajya Sabha office. “After I got over my surprise, I made the customary gestures of hospitality. He said that ‘there are expectations of higher responsibilities for you but you are not helping me’.” “I said that my work in the Rajya Sabha, and outside, is public knowledge. ‘Why are Bills not being passed in the din?’ he asked. I replied that the Leader of the House and his colleagues, when in Opposition, had appreciated the ruling that no Bills will be passed in the din and that normal procedures of obtaining consent will be observed.” “He [Mr. Modi] then said that Rajya Sabha TV was not favourable to the government. My response was that while I had a role in the establishment of the channel, I had no control over the editorial content…”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/core-values-being-subverted-ansari/article33689356.ece
29 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Vaccines are safe for those who are on blood thinners: ICMR||Both COVID-19 vaccines approved for emergency use in India — Covaxin and Covishield — are safe for people on blood thinners, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) Director-General Balram Bhargav said on Thursday. At a Health Ministry press conference, he said manufacturers of both the vaccines had approached the Drugs Controller-General of India (DCGI) for revision of this contraindication on their fact sheets. “Relative contraindications regarding blood thinners have been mentioned in the fact sheets of both the vaccines and both the companies have written to the DCGI regarding revision of this. The revision will happen every soon. Blood thinners are of two categories — anti-platelets and anti-coagulants. For those on anti-platelets like aspirin, the vaccine causes no problem but for those on anti-coagulants, the tendency to bleed is much higher. This is also a relative contraindication and the anti-coagulant can be stopped a day or two before administering the vaccine,” Mr. Bhargav said. The Health Ministry added that it was engaging with private stakeholders to look at increasing the future coverage of COVID-19 vaccines. “The Ministry is also actively working at reducing wastage of the vaccine by bringing in a more flexible digital platform and issuing an exhaustive guideline to States/UTs to manage waste below 10%,” Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/vaccines-are-safe-for-those-who-are-on-blood-thinners-icmr/article33689370.ece
29 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Chief Justice Bobde recalls the first sitting of SC in 1950||Seventy-one years ago, the Supreme Court of India took its seat for the first time under a new Constitution in the Court Chamber in Parliament House on January 28. Chief Justice of India Sharad A. Bobde remembered the occasion of the inaugural sitting of the court with Attorney General K.K. Venugopal and Solicitor General Tushar Mehta as soon as his Bench assembled on Thursday for hearing disputes through a virtual court system chiselled out of a necessity to render justice during the pandemic. “Today is the day when the first sitting of the Supreme Court took place in 1950. In attendance was the Chief Justices of 13 High Courts. A six-judge Bench sat that day. The Prime Minister [Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru] and Ministers were there. It should be celebrated. This occasion must be marked in future,” Chief Justice Bobde said. The January 29, 1950 edition of The Hindu carried a three-column, black-and-white photograph of the six-judge Bench with the first Chief Justice of India, Justice Sir Harilal Jekisundas Kania. Below the dais and facing the assembled guests sat the 13 Chief Justices of the High Courts. Beneath the banner headline that said ‘Supreme Court Inaugurated’, were the words “Guardian of Liberty”. On the occasion, 71 years ago, the first Attorney General M.C. Setalvad, in his speech, as reported in The Hindu , said “in building a nation, alive to its national and international duties”, the Supreme Court “will play a great and singular role and establish itself in the consciousness of the Indian people. Like all human institutions, the Supreme Court, we hope, will earn reverence through truth”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/chief-justice-bobde-recalls-the-first-sitting-of-sc-in-1950/article33689379.ece
29 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||More ‘Made in India’ COVID-19 vaccines on the way, says PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Thursday that more ‘Made in India’ COVID-19 vaccines are on the way to help speed up the world’s vaccination efforts, and India’s economy would help global growth recover from the aftermath of the pandemic. “So far, there are only two Made In India Vaccines available. In the coming days, many more vaccines are expected to arrive. These will help the world vaccinate more people in an expeditious way,” said the Prime Minister at the World Economic Forum’s virtual Davos summit. Seeking to assuage concerns about India’s self-reliance aspirations as enunciated under the Atma Nirbhar Bharat programme, the Prime Minister said this drive would support globalism with a new vigour. “I would like to assure all here that India’s every success will help the whole world’s success. Even Atma Nirbhar Bharat is committed to global supply chains. We have the capacity and reliability to be a part of the global supply chain. We have a large consumer base as well, and as it grows, it will help the world’s economy too,” he said. Inviting investors to consider opportunities in the country, Mr. Modi said: “India is full of possibilities and self-confidence. During the crisis, we have undertaken several structural reforms and they are being supported by production-linked incentives. Now, from the tax regime to FDI norms, we have a predictable and friendly environment.” Industry 4.0 Arguing that India had all the ingredients required for adopting Industry 4.0, with its robust digital infrastructure and skills, the Prime Minister said that it was important that the fourth industrial revolution should not be for robots, but for the benefit of human beings. “The Corona crisis has reminded us of the value of humanity… We have to ensure that technology becomes a tool for ease of living, not a trap. The world will have to take steps towards this together. I am confident that we will succeed in this endeavour,” he concluded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/more-made-in-india-covid-19-vaccines-on-the-way-says-pm/article33689362.ece
29 January 2021||New Delhi,||Budget will be a conjurer’s illusion: Cong.||Senior Congress leaders P. Chidambaram, Jairam Ramesh and Mallikarjun Kharge addressed the media on the upcoming Budget session of the Parliament on Thursday. “We know that this government is exceptionally obstinate, impervious to good advice and uncaring about the calamitous consequences of its economic policies,” Mr. Chidamabaram said. “Even without the pandemic, the economy would have continued on the downward path that had begun in the first quarter of 2018-19 and continued for eight successive quarters. The pandemic pushed the economy into an abyss — -23.9% in Q1 of 2020-21 and -7.5% in Q2,” he noted. “The current Finance Minister has the distinction of presiding over the first recession in four decades. The year 2020-21 will end with negative growth. None of the numbers estimated at the beginning of the year will be achieved,” he said. “We are afraid that the Finance Minister will present a dressed-up revised estimates for 2020-21 and attempt to build an attractive narrative for 2021-22. The revised estimates for 2020-21 will be a set of false numbers and, therefore, the Budget estimate for 2021-22 will be a conjurer’s illusion,” he added. Veteran Congress leader and Rajya Sabha member Mallikarjun Kharge said the party will try to raise farm laws issues again in the Parliament.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/budget-will-be-a-conjurers-illusion-cong/article33689364.ece
29 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||1 lakh NCC cadets to be trained by Army, Navy and Air Force||To strengthen the security network in the border and coastal areas, the participation of National Cadet Corps (NCC) is being boosted and the government has made efforts to see that the role of NCC is further expanded, said Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday. “On August 15 last year, it was announced that NCC will be given new responsibilities in around 175 districts in the coastal and border areas. For this, around one lakh NCC cadets are being trained by Army, Navy and Air Force. Of these, one-third are girl cadets,” Mr. Modi said addressing the PM’s NCC rally in the national capital. Be it the floods or any other calamity, NCC cadets helped the people last year and during the COVID-19 pandemic lakhs of cadets worked with the administration and society across the country. “It is commendable,” he said. He said that training infrastructure for NCC is being strengthened. As against just one firing simulator earlier, 98 are being established now. Micro flight simulators are also being increased from 5 to 44 and rowing simulators from 11 to 60, he stated. Mr. Modi also inspected the Guard of Honour, reviewed the March Past by NCC contingents and witnessed cultural performance during the event. Referring to the three Rafale jets, which landed in India on Wednesday, Mr. Modi said the aircraft flying non-stop from France with the help of UAE, Saudi Arabia and Greece reflect the strengthening of ties with Gulf countries. Mr. Modi said it was a blend of sense of duty among the citizenry and bravery of the security forces that broke the back of Naxalism and Maoism, which was affecting a large part of our country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/1-lakh-ncc-cadets-to-be-trained-by-army-navy-and-air-force/article33689374.ece
29 January 2021||New Delhi,||Saeed’s acquittal shows Pak. intent: MEA||The acquittal of terror accused Ahmed Omar Saeed Sheikh “demonstrates” the real intent of Pakistan on acting against terror elements based in that country, said an official of the Ministry of External Affairs on Thursday. Addressing the weekly press briefing online, Official Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said India continues to call upon Pakistan for “verifiable” action against terror masterminds. “This case truly demonstrates Pakistan’s intent on taking action on terror front. It is a travesty of justice not to find Omar Saeed guilty of any charges in this heinous act of terror. Our position on Pakistan taking sustained, verifiable, credible and irreversible action against terrorism and terrorist funding emanating from all territory under its control remains unchanged,” said Mr. Srivastava. Saeed, who is the chief accused in the brutal 2002 beheading of American journalist Daniel Pearl, was acquitted by the Supreme Court of Pakistan on Thursday. The acquittal was opposed internationally by both the U.S. government as well as the family of the slain journalist. Omar Saeed, who is a British-Pakistani, earlier served jail term in India for his alleged role in the kidnapping of western tourists in India in 1994. Terrorists who hijacked the Indian Airlines IC814 from Kathmandu secured his release in exchange for the aircraft and its passengers from Kandahar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/saeeds-acquittal-shows-pak-intent-mea/article33689377.ece
29 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||IFFK lifetime award for Jean-Luc Godard||French-Swiss filmmaker Jean-Luc Godard, the pioneer of the French New Wave film movement, will receive the lifetime achievement award of the International Film Festival of Kerala (IFFK). He will participate in the festival through videoconferencing and filmmaker Adoor Gopalakrishnan will receive the award on his behalf. Registration Delegate registration for the 25th IFFK that will be held across four locations this year will commence on January 30. The festival will be held in Thiruvananthapuram from February 10 to 14, in Kochi from February 17 to 21, in Thalassery from February 23 to 27 and in Palakkad from March 1 to 5 in strict adherence to the COVID-19 protocol. Online registration will commence on www.registration.iffk.in at 10 a.m. on Saturday for all the locations. The delegates’ fee has been reduced to Rs. 750 for the general category and Rs. 400 for students. Registrations can be made only to the locations near one’s home town. Participants from Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam and Pathanamthitta can register for Thiruvananthapuram, while those from Ernakulam, Kottayam and Idukki can register for Kochi, those from Palakkad and Malappuram for Palakkad, and those from Kozhikode, Kannur and Kasaragod for Thalassery. Participants from Alappuzha can opt for Thiruvananthapuram or Kochi and those from Thrissur may register for Kochi or Palakkad. Likewise, those from Wayanad can choose either Palakkad or Thalassery. While the number of seats in Thiruvananthapuram and Kochi have been capped at 2,500, there are 1,500 seats each in Thalassery and Palakkad. COVID-19-negative certificates issued on the basis of tests undertaken 48 hours prior to the festivals should be produced to obtain the delegate’s passes. The Kerala Chalachitra Academy will also establish facilities for antigen tests in association with the Health Department at the centres. Entry to theatres will be on the basis of reservation. Seat numbers will be allotted to delegates in a manner that ensures social distancing. Stamp A commemorative stamp to mark the silver jubilee of the IFFK will be brought out in association with India Post. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan will formally launch the stamp after receiving it from the Chief Postmaster General, Kerala Circle, during the presentation of the 50th State Film Awards at Tagore Theatre on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/iffk-lifetime-award-for-jean-luc-godard/article33689880.ece
29 January 2021||Kolkata,||West Bengal polls: Congress, Left agree to share 193 seats||The Left parties and the Congress on Thursday agreed on sharing of seats in 193 of the 294 constituencies ahead of the West Bengal Assembly seats later this year. Of the 193 seats, the Congress will contest in 92 seats and the Left in 101. Announcing the arrangement at a joint press conference, State unit Congress president Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury and leader of the Left Front Biman Basu expressed confidence that the entire exercise would be completed in the next few days. Sources said both the parties were trying to ensure a seamless seat sharing in all the 294 seats and there is no friendly contest in any seat. The Left parties and the Congress had come together and forged electoral understanding in the 2016 Assembly polls and 2019 Lok Sabha elections. However, on both occasions, there were few seats where the parties had put up nominees and called it a “friendly contest.” Speaking to journalists, Mr. Chowdhury said the biggest danger before the people of the West Bengal was the poison of communalism and both the BJP and the Trinamool Congress were responsible for it. In 2016, the Left parties had contested in about 200 seats while the Congress contested in 90 seats. The seat sharing agreement for the 2021 Assembly polls so far suggests that the Congress may end up contesting in 120 to 130 seats leaving the Left parties to field candidates in 160 to 170 seats. The development indicates that the Left parties are relatively losing their bargaining power. Though both the parties have been witnessing a decrease in vote percentage, the Congress has shown relatively better chances of winning than the Left parties. Joint rally After the seat sharing agreement is arrived at in next few days the Left parties and the Congress will hold a joint rally at Brigade parade ground on February 28.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/left-congress-agree-on-193-bengal-seats/article33689359.ece
29 January 2021||Kolkata,||Left, Congress finalise poll deal in 193 seats||The Left parties and the Congress on Thursday agreed on seat sharing in almost two-thirds of the Assembly seats in West Bengal — 193 of the 294 seats. Of the 193, the Congress will contest 92 and the Left 101. State Congress president Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury and Leader of the Left Front Biman Basu held a press conference at Bidhan Bhavan, announcing the seat sharing arrangement. Both expressed confidence that the seat sharing would be completed in the next few days. ‘No friendly contest’ Sources said both the parties were trying to ensure a seamless seat sharing in all the 294 seats and there was no friendly contest in any seat. The Left parties and the Congress had come together and forged electoral understanding in the 2016 Assembly and 2019 Lok Sabha elections. However, on both occasions, there were a few seats where the parties had put up nominees and called it a “friendly contest”. ‘Poison of communalism’ Speaking to presspersons, Mr. Chowdhury said the biggest danger before the people of West Bengal was the poison of communalism and both the BJP and the Trinamool Congress were responsible for it. In 2016, the Left parties had contested about 200 seats while the Congress contested nearly 90. The seat sharing agreement for 2021 so far suggests that the Congress may end up contesting in 120 to 130 seats while the Left parties in 160 to 170 seats. The development indicates that the Left parties are relatively losing their bargaining power. Though both the parties have been witnessing a decrease in vote percentage, the Congress has shown relatively better chances of winning than the Left parties.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/left-congress-finalise-poll-deal-in-193-seats/article33689928.ece
29 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Boeing gets U.S. govt. approval to offer F-15EX fighter jet to IAF||The U.S. government has given licence to aircraft manufacturer Boeing to market its F-15EX fighter jet to the IAF’s tender for 114 jets, a senior company official said on Thursday. The IAF is evaluating proposals from global manufacturers to procure 114 fighters and is expected to go to the Defence Ministry for the Acceptance of Necessity (AoN) to begin the procurement process. Boeing can now offer and discuss the F-15EX to the IAF. “The six AH-64 Apache attack helicopters for the Army will start manufacturing in India this year,” said Michael Koch, Vice-President, Boeing Defence, Space and Security. The Tata Boeing Aerospace Limited facility has been producing aero-structures for Boeing’s AH-64 Apache helicopter, including fuselages, secondary structures and vertical spar boxes for international customers. Boeing is also working to deliver three P-8I long range maritime patrol aircraft to the Navy this year, said Surendra Ahuja, Managing Director, Boeing Defence India. The Navy is exploiting the P-8Is at a higher rate than the U.S. Navy, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/boeing-gets-us-govt-approval-to-offer-f-15ex-fighter-jet-to-iaf/article33689372.ece
29 January 2021||IDUKKI,||As mercury dips, tourists flock to Munnar||There is a change in the pattern of winter in Munnar, where the four seasons are most evident. Tourists prefer winter and spring and reach the hill station in large numbers. Usually, winter season starts in November with extreme cold experienced in the first week of January. However, it has changed in the past three years and this year unexpected rain increased the temperature after it reached subzero level in December end. However, for the past three days the mercury has started dipping in Munnar with frost covering tea plants, buildings, and vehicles. The lowest temperature recorded in Munnar on Thursday was -1°Celsius (C) at Latchmi and 1°C at Munnar UPASI and Chenduvarai. On Wednesday, it was 0°C at Nallathanni, Chenduvarai, Seven Malai, and Silent Valley and - 1°C at Latchmi. On Tuesday, Nallathanni, Letchmi, Seven Malai, and Silent Valley recorded 0, -1, 0, and 2°C respectively. There is a continuous flow of tourists after the lockdown curbs were eased prior to the Christmas/ New Year season. The trend is expected to continue with the temperature expected to dip further. The manager of a resort said they were receiving near-total bookings since the start of the Christmas season. Most of the tourists were from southern India. The change in the winter pattern would also have an impact on tourist arrivals, he added. Separate phenomenon Climatologist Gopakumar Cholayil said Munnar experienced a long winter with mercury dipping to subzero levels in February 2019. Many reasons were attributed then for the winter spell, which extended for two weeks. This was considered a separate phenomenon in climatic events, he said. This year, Munnar missed winter in the first week of January due to unexpected rain. In 2020, the winter season was almost missed in Munnar. The winter pattern had now changed due to the unexpected rainfall and the hill station was experiencing winter again once the rain subsided.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/as-mercury-dips-tourists-flock-to-munnar/article33689334.ece
29 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Two independent unions end protest||Two factions of the Bharatiya Kisan Union, neither of which is affiliated to the Samyukt Kisan Morcha joint front, have ended their protest against the farm laws. Leaders of the BKU-Ekta and BKU-Lok Shakti, which were protesting at the Dalit Prerna Sthal in Noida, met Agrivulture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Thursday evening, and submitted letters saying that they had ended their agitation “in the national interest” in the view of the violence that took place on Republic Day “by some mischievous elements in the name of the farmers’ movement...in order to defame farmers”. Both unions urged the government to enact a law guaranteeing minimum support prices for farmers. They said the three farm laws should not be implemented until they are amended in line with the feedback given by farmers’ organisations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/two-independent-unions-end-protest/article33689409.ece
29 January 2021||New Delhi,||Opposition signals stormy Budget session||The decision by several Opposition parties to boycott the President’s address to the joint session of Parliament at the start of the Budget session over the Centre's refusal to repeal the three farm laws and it’s handling of the farmer’s agitation, has set the tone for a stormy Budget session. “The Prime Minister and the BJP government remain arrogant, adamant and undemocratic in their response. Shocked by this insensitivity of the Government, the following opposition political parties, reaffirming the collective demand for the repeal of the Anti Farmer Laws and in solidarity with the Indian Farmers, have decided to boycott the President’s address...” read the joint statement, signed by 16 senior Opposition leaders. ‘Ready for discussions’ Urging the opposition to rethink the boycott, Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi said, “The government is ready to discuss all issues threadbare and as much time as is required will be set aside when the Business Advisory Committee (BAC) of both Houses meet.” However, Bahujan Samaj Party, Telangana Rashtra Samithi, YSR Congress and Biju Janata Dal have stayed silent, though some of them had protested against the farm laws during its passage last September.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/opposition-signals-stormy-budget-session/article33689354.ece
29 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||2.5 lakh houses built by LIFE Mission: Pinarayi||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said the Left Democratic Front (LDF) government will not wither under pressure tactics employed by political rivals to torpedo its developmental projects that are in various stages of execution. Announcing the completion of construction of 2.5 lakh houses under the LIFE Mission housing project on Thursday, Mr. Vijayan alleged that certain quarters sought to scuttle the State’s progress by propagating falsehoods and raking up controversies. Wadakkanchery row Referring to the row surrounding the LIFE Mission apartment project at Wadakkanchery, he said: “Attempts to hinder such works amounted to mocking the plight of disadvantaged sections. However, during the recent local body elections, the public gave a befitting reply to such attempts to mislead them on such issues, particularly when they concerned their fundamental needs. The government cannot be cowed down into abandoning its projects on the basis of such misinformation campaigns.” As many as 2,50,547 houses have been constructed under the LIFE Mission thus far, thereby enabling over 10 lakh people in the State to lead dignified lives. In its initial phase, the project provided 52,607 houses for people without both land and a home. As many as 87,697 out of 98,326 people who possessed land but did not own a house were provided houses in the second phase. As many as 106 grama panchayats have achieved 100% completion of the planned constructions under the project. Third phase The third phase will focus on constructing 85 apartment complexes, of which 52 were in various stages of completion. While five complexes will be ready within two months, another 32 will be readied up for the beneficiaries by May. Besides, the LIFE Mission was integrated with Central housing schemes to ensure the public derived the benefits of different projects. As part of the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (PMAY) scheme, 63,449 houses were constructed under its urban component and 17,149 under the rural component. Considering that the Scheduled Caste/ Scheduled Tribes Development Department and Cooperative Departments have also been undertaking housing projects, the government has constructed houses worth Rs. 8,823 crore during the last four-and-a-half years. Earlier, the Chief Minister attended the house-warming ceremony of a dwelling constructed at Pappadu, near Vazhottukonam, in Vattiyurkavu. Minister for Local Self-Government A.C. Moideen, V.K. Prasanth, MLA, Local Self-Government Department Additional Chief Secretary Sarada Muraleedharan, and LIFE Mission Chief Executive Officer U.V. Jose were among those who participated in the function.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/25-lakh-houses-built-by-life-mission-pinarayi/article33689340.ece
29 January 2021||KALPETTA,||Centre exploiting farmers’ ignorance, says Rahul||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, MP, has lashed out at the Centre over three contentious farm laws stating that the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance government has been exploiting the ignorance of farmers. Speaking after inaugurating a convention of the United Democratic Front (UDF) Kalpetta constituency on Thursday, Mr. Gandhi said the majority of the farmers were ignorant of the new agriculture laws and if they knew of the consequences, the country would have been on fire. Coming down heavily on Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Mr. Gandhi said the country was being run by the Prime Minister for a few big businessmen. They were looting the farmers with the support of the Prime Minister, he said. Mr. Gandhi alleged that Central agencies such as the Central Bureau of Investigation were being used for political gains. However, such agencies were not targeting the LDF government in the State, instead they were turning against Congress leaders in the State. “In every Opposition party-ruled State, the CBI and the Enforcement Directorate (ED) are used aggressively by the BJP. There is no such thing in Kerala. There is no such pressure on the LDF government here. The CBI and ED are very relaxed on the cases here,” Mr. Gandhi said. Mr. Gandhi said the State government had failed to set up a government medical college in the district. This would materialise only if the UDF came to power in the State in the forthcoming Assembly elections, he said. Man-animal conflicts Mr. Gandhi said he would put pressure on both the Centre and the State governments to adopt steps to mitigate the increasing man-animal conflicts in the district. The hill district sould be made a hub of spices to address the crisis faced by farmers. Priority should be given to youths in the coming Assembly elections and selection of candidates should be transparent, Mr. Gandhi said. All India Congress Committee general secretary K.C. Venugopal delivered the key note address. Razakh Kalpetta, chairman, UDF Kalpetta constituency, presided over the function.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centre-exploiting-farmers-ignorance-says-rahul/article33689344.ece
29 January 2021||January 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Pressure on protesting farmers to move out||Thousands of farmers were engaged in a stand-off with the Uttar Pradesh police on the Ghazipur border on Thursday evening. The Ghaziabad administration had issued an ultimatum that if the protesters do not leave by midnight, they will be removed forcibly. An emotional Rakesh Tikait, leader of one faction of the Bharatiya Kisan Union, declared that “if the black laws were not taken back and he was forcibly removed from the site, he would end his life.” Electricity and water supply to the protest site were cut earlier in the day, and local residents, who unions say are being incited by local BJP leaders, have been demanding that they clear the road. On Thursday morning, hundreds of farmers, mostly from Madhya Pradesh, were forced to leave their sit-in site at Palwal on the Delhi-Agra Highway after the Haryana police served them notices with regard to the violence on Republic Day. Union leaders say they also faced pressure from villagers mobilised by BJP activists. The two largest protest sites, at Tikri and Singhu on the Haryana border, saw an increased deployment of security forces. A group of people, claiming to be residents of nearby villages, staged a demonstration against the agitation at Singhu, demanding that the inter-State highway be cleared. They said their commute was affected by the agitation and also accused the protesting farmers of disrespecting the tricolour at Red Fort on Republic Day.  (With inputs from Anuj Kumar, Shinjini Ghosh, Ashok Kumar and Priscilla Jebaraj and Saurabh Trivedi)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pressure-on-protesting-farmers-to-move-out/article33689402.ece
29 January 2021||January 29 2021 00:00 IST,||High Court denies bail to comedian Faruqui||“The evidence/material collected so far suggests that in an organized public show under the garb of stand-up comedy at a public place on commercial lines, prima facie , scurrilous, disparaging utterances, outraging religious feelings of a class of citizens of India with deliberate intent, were made by the applicant,” the High Court said. “Liberty of an individual has to be balanced with his duties and obligations towards his fellow citizens,” the order said, citing a past Supreme Court judgment. The court noted defence lawyers’ argument that Faruqui had come to Indore on an invitation by organisers, and did not say anything that has been alleged. However, in the light of the statements of the complainant and witnesses and video footage of the show, “at this stage it is difficult to countenance to the submissions of the learned counsel for the applicant as complacency of the applicant cannot be ruled out,” it said. “It is not a case of no evidence. More so, the investigation is in progress,” the court added. There was a possibility that “more incriminating material” would be collected, and further, a similar case has been registered against Faruqui in Prayagraj in Uttar Pradesh, the High Court noted. “That apart, there is also specific assertion by the counsel for the complainant that the applicant, along with other co-accused persons, (were) allegedly making outraging filthy jokes in social media deliberately against Hindu Gods, Lord Shriram and Goddess Seeta, hurting religious sentiments of Hindus for the last 18 months, despite protest on various social media platforms. There is nothing on record to the contrary,” it said. “It is the constitutional duty of every citizen of the country to promote harmony and the spirit of common brotherhood irrespective of religious, linguistic, regional or sectional diversities and to value and preserve the rich heritage of our composite culture (Article 15A (e) and (f) of the Constitution of India),” it said. As per the First Information Report, the comedy show was held at a cafe in 56 Dukan area of Indore on January 1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/high-court-denies-bail-to-comedian-faruqui/article33689348.ece
29 January 2021||January 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Paediatrician shoots doctor, kills self in U.S.||According to the CNN, citing Austin Police Department press release, the hostages who escaped told police that the man was armed with a pistol and what appeared to be a shotgun. He also had two duffel bags. Dr. Narumanchi had visited the CMG office a week prior to the shooting and applied for a volunteer position. The suspect had terminal cancer and had only been given weeks to live, Austin police Lt. Jeff Greenwalt told reporters on Wednesday. “So we feel like his terminal cancer probably played a large part in whatever it was that occurred in his life and what was happening yesterday,” he was quoted as saying by U.S. media reports. But for now, Lt. Greenwalt said, investigators are still trying to unravel what could have led to the hostage situation. He called for any of the doctor’s family and friends who might have knowledge about Dr. Narumanchi to contact the homicide department. Earlier, police said hostage negotiators tried to make contact with Dr. Narumanchi, but were unsuccessful. After repeated attempts, SWAT (special weapons and tactic) officers entered the building where they found Dodson and Narumanchi dead from apparent gunshot wounds. “It appeared that Dr. Narumanchi shot himself after shooting Dr. Dodson,” according to the police department’s news release. The incident is still under investigation. “There were five people inside the building when the suspect arrived,” Lt. Greenwalt said, adding they were all employees and no children or patients were present at the time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/paediatrician-shoots-doctor-kills-self-in-us/article33689349.ece
29 January 2021||January 29 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Stopping hate on TV is essential to prevent riots’||“It can hardly be called a ‘visit’,” Mr. Mehta reacted. “I was just using a non-controversial word,” Chief Justice Bobde replied. The CJI said the court, by government control, did not mean to curb free speech on TV. “People can take any tone on TV as long as they don’t incite violence, hatred, communal riots. We are interested only with people instigating and inciting violence and riots. These are situations which cause loss of lives and property. That is what we are worried about,” Chief Justice Bobde explained. Mr. Mehta said the creation of such situations though “unfortunate” were “deliberate”. The Chief Justice said the court had no problem with “fair and truthful reporting”. “Fair and truthful reporting normally is not a problem. The problem is when it [broadcast, programmes] is used to agitate others. There are broadcasts, programmes that definitely have the effect of instigating people, not just against one community, but any community... Why are you blind to them... You don’t do anything about it?” Chief Justice addressed Mr. Mehta. Mr. Mehta referred to how some channels end up with “rightfully or wrongfully guiding terrorists” during operations. Chief Justice Bobde was reminded of the 26/11 attack in Mumbai. “I was a judge of the Bombay High Court,” the CJI said. The hearing was based on a batch of petitions, including one filed by Jamiat Ulama-i-Hind, which alleged that certain sections of the media communalised the Tablighi Jamat congregation by linking it to a spike in the spread of COVID-19 infection. The court has been examining the question of efficacy of certain laws, including the Cable Television Networks Act of 1995, to prevent such scenarios.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/stopping-hate-on-tv-is-imperative-top-court/article33689350.ece
29 January 2021||January 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Delhi police send notices to 40 farmer leaders||“The last location of Deep was traced in Haryana where he permanently switched off his phone. We have issued lookout notices against him and Sidhana. Several teams have been formed to arrest him,” said a police officer. In a separate FIR registered at Samaypur Badli police station, 37 farmers' leaders has been named and charged under IPC sections of attempt to murder, rioting and others. The officer added that protesters at Red Fort removed the national flag disrespectfully. They also have found many flags lying on the ground on Republic Day. A senior police officer said the police has issued lookout notices against farmer leaders named in an FIR in connection with the violence during the farmers' tractor parade and invoked sedition charges in a case of the Red Fort incident. They have asked six farmers’ leaders to join the probe. Chimoy Biswal, DCP (Headquarters), confirmed that notices had been sent to farmers leaders, who attended the meeting with the police for the tractor rally. The letter reads that despite agreeing to the mutually decided terms and conditions for the rally, farmer leaders acted in a very irresponsible manner on January 26. These militant elements occupied the stage and started provocative speeches right from the early hours of January 26.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/delhi-police-send-notices-to-40-farmer-leaders/article33689351.ece
29 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC dismisses appeal by Karnataka BJP leader||The Supreme Court on Thursday dismissed an appeal filed by Karnataka BJP leader and Member of the Legislative Council (MLC) A.H. Vishwanath against a State High Court order disqualifying him from being appointed a Minister. A Bench led by Chief Justice of India Sharad A. Bobde said the disqualification would hold if a person is only nominated as an MLC and not elected. “Special leave petitions are dismissed,” the court ordered. Mr. Vishwanath was one of the 17 dissident legislators whose disqualification by the Speaker under the anti-defection law was upheld by the Supreme Court in 2019. Their defection had led to the toppling of the combined Congress and Janata Dal (Secular) government in Karnataka. The apex court, in its 2019 judgment, did not bar the disqualified legislators from contesting byelections. Mr. Vishwanath, however, did not manage to get reelected. He was later nominated as MLC by the Governor. He was in the race to become a Minister in the present BJP government under Chief Minister B.S. Yeddiyurappa, before the High Court order became a stumbling block in his path. “If you come back elected it is fine. If you are simply nominated, it cannot be,” Chief Justice Bobde said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-dismisses-appeal-by-karnataka-bjp-leader/article33689352.ece
29 January 2021||Ghaziabad,||FIR against Tharoor, senior journalists||The Gautam Buddha Nagar police lodged an FIR on Thursday against Congress MP Shashi Tharoor and senior journalists Rajdeep Sardesai, Mrinal Pande, Zafar Agha, Anant Nath, Paresh Nath, and Vinod K. Jose for inciting violence on January 26 through their social media posts. In the FIR filed over a complaint by Arpit Mishra at the Sector 20 police station of Noida, the police have invoked Sections 153A (promoting enmity between different groups), 153B, 295A (malicious acts to outrage religious feelings), 298 (deliberate intent to wound religious feelings), 504, 506, 124A and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 66 of the IT Act, 2000. ‘Vitiated atmosphere’ The complainant alleged that Mr. Tharoor and others posted misleading tweets that the police had shot dead a protester. They deliberately vitiated the atmosphere so that large-scale riots could happen in the city. He said the accused tweeted out of bias and put the security of the country and its people in jeopardy. They tweeted in a pre-planned manner to create tension among different communities and incite protesters to indulge in violence for their political benefit, it said. The complainant charged the accused of denigrating the image of the police. Mr. Mishra wanted the tweets to be removed as they had been forwarded multiple times.  They tweeted in a preplanned manner to create tension among different communities Arpit MishraComplainant||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/fir-against-tharoor-senior-journalists/article33689404.ece
29 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Brass finials, tableaux damaged at Red Fort’||Union Culture Minister Prahlad Singh Patel said on Thursday that two brass finials that “are as old as the Red Fort”, an interpretation centre that was under construction, and the Republic Day Parade tableaux that were stationed at the Red Fort were damaged in the violence that broke out during Tuesday’s farmers’ rally. Mr. Patel, who visited the Red Fort on Wednesday to take stock of the situation, said the gate of the monument was broken, six or seven blocks of the interpretation centre on the first floor were “destroyed” and lighting equipment lying outside was damaged. He said two brass finials from the flagpole where the Tricolour flies permanently were “missing” after the violence. An Archaeological Survey of India official, however, said the broken finials were found on the premises later. ASI move Terming the incident unfortunate, Mr. Patel said the ASI had filed a police complaint and sought action under Section 30 of the Ancient Monuments and Archaeological Sites and Remains Act, 1958 that prescribed penalties for damage to protected sites. Mr. Patel said the tableaux, which are displayed at the Red Fort after the parade for the public to see, were damaged. He said the “Ram mandir” tableau — Uttar Pradesh’s first prize-winning tableau depicting the Ram temple — and the Culture Ministry’s tableau were among those damaged. A senior Delhi Police officer said: “We have registered an FIR under sections of the Indian Penal Code relating to damaging public property at Kotwali police station against the protesters who caused damage to the monument on Republic Day.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/brass-finials-tableaux-damaged-at-red-fort/article33689407.ece
29 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC flays Centre for affidavit on UPSC exams||The Supreme Court on Thursday said an affidavit filed by the government did not specify the level of authority at which the decision was taken to not give UPSC aspirants, including “last-attempters” who claimed their preparations for the October 4 prelims were severely restricted due to the COVID-19 pandemic, another chance to take the elite civil services exams. A Bench led by Justice A.M. Khanwilkar also noted that the affidavit seemed to be a “routine” one filed by an Under Secretary.The court said the decision should have been taken at the highest level. “It is a policy decision and a one-time decision. This is a routine affidavit. Is this the way to do this?” the Bench asked Additional Solicitor-General S.V. Raju. Mr. Raju agreed to file another affidavit. The court scheduled the case for hearing on January 29. Senior advocate C.U. Singh, for the aspirants, said there was a lack of clarity on the issue from the government. A 13-page affidavit filed by an Under Secretary with the Department of Personnel and Training recently said it was “curious to note that the petitioners, who participated in the examination with open eyes, only approached the Supreme Court after the results of the examination were declared”. Giving an additional attempt or relaxation in age for some candidates would amount to extending differential treatment. It would lead to an “un-levelling of the playing field,” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-flays-centre-for-affidavit-on-upsc-exams/article33689365.ece
29 January 2021||Mumbai,||Bombay HC quashes another POCSO verdict||The Nagpur Bench of the Bombay High Court on Thursday said that “the acts of ‘holding the hands of the prosecutrix’ [female victim] or ‘opened zip of the pants’ did not fit in the definition of ‘sexual assault’”, and quashed the conviction of a man under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. On February 12, 2018, the mother of the minor lodged a report that the day before she had noticed Libnus Kujur, a labourer in her house, molesting her five-year-old. She saw him holding hands of her elder daughter and when she shouted for neighbours to come in, the accused ran away. The minor later told her mother that he had also exposed by unzipping the pants and asked her to come to bed for sleeping. The mother had also observed the open zip of Mr. Kujur’s pants. He was charged and convicted under various Sections of the POCSO Act. Justice Pushpa Ganediwala was hearing a criminal appeal filed by Mr. Kujur from Gadchiroli challenging his conviction by the lower court on October 5, 2020, that sentenced him for five years. In her order, Justice Ganediwala said, “The minimum sentence for this offence (punishment for aggravated sexual assault) is five years imprisonment. Considering the nature of the offence and the sentence prescribed, the aforesaid acts are not sufficient for fixing the criminal liability on the appellant/accused for the alleged offence of ‘aggravated sexual assault’. At the most the minor offence punishable under Section 354-A (1) (i) of the IPC is proved against the appellant.” The nine-page order, passed on January 15, said, “The conviction of the appellant/accused for the offence punishable under Sections 8, 10 and 12 of the POCSO Act, is quashed and set aside. The conviction of the appellant/accused for the offence punishable under Sections 448 and 354-A(1) (i) of the IPC is maintained.” On January 19, Justice Ganediwala had acquitted a man charged under the POCSO Act and convicted him under a ‘minor offence’ of the IPC as, “There is no direct physical contact i.e skin-to-skin with sexual intent without penetration”. The Supreme Court on Wednesday stayed that order.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mumbai-hc-quashes-another-pocso-verdict/article33689387.ece
29 January 2021||HYDERABAD,||RTI: OCI card does not allow ‘Tabligh work’||Citizens of foreign countries, but of Indian origin, who wish to seek Overseas Citizen of India (OCI) cards or are already cardholders cannot indulge in ‘Tabligh work’, a response to a Right to Information Act (RTI) request stated. The query was filed by city resident Syed Liaqat Ullah who sought information on the subject after an acquaintance of his, a citizen of an European country, filed an application for an OCI card. “The declaration was that the applicant should not indulge in Tabligh activities. Tabligh, though means propagation of faith, is generally associated with the Tablighi Jamaat. Though there is mention of OCI card not being used, unless authorised by the government, missionary work, mountaineering and research, I wanted to know why there was a mention of the Tabligh activity specifically,” the Right to Information Act applicant said. In its response, the Consulate General of India in Birmingham, United Kingdom, stated, “As a matter of policy of the Government of India, OCI is a type of life-long visa and under its provisions Tabligh work is not permissible. If anyone intends to travel to India for Tabligh work, they are free to apply for a separate visa under appropriate category.” The Tablighi Jamaat was in focus of various State governments and the Centre after an outbreak of coronavirus early last year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rti-oci-card-does-not-allow-tabligh-work/article33689737.ece
29 January 2021||Chandigarh,||‘R-Day violence in Delhi instigated by BJP, AAP’||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Thursday hit out at Union Minister Prakash Javadekar, accusing him of attempting to shift the blame for the Red Fort violence on the Congress, which he said had evidently been instigated by supporters and members of his own BJP in collusion with the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP). “Workers and supporters of the BJP and the AAP, and not the Congress, have been caught on camera waving the Nishan Sahib at the Red Fort,” said Capt. Amarinder. “Not a single Congress leader or member was seen there indulging in any kind of lawlessness. Even farmers were not responsible for the January 26 trouble, which was in fact the doing of anti-social elements who had infiltrated the tractor rally,” he said. He said the Centre should also get a free and fair probe conducted into the possible role of any political party, or even a third country as is being alleged by the BJP’s own leaders, to ensure that the guilty are punished and the genuine farmers are not unnecessarily maligned or harassed. The Chief Minister also lashed out at the Union Minister for accusing former Congress president Rahul Gandhi of inciting the violence. “Did the Congress leader ask anyone to climb the Red Fort? He did not. It was the BJP and the AAP men who did that,” he said, adding that Mr. Gandhi had, in fact, promptly condemned the violence, and made it clear that violence was no solution to the crisis. “These allegations are nothing but a cover-up attempt by the BJP leader for his own party’s role in the violence, and in fact for their utter failure to manage the situation, which they had created in the first place with the unilateral implementation of the black farm laws,” said Capt. Amarinder.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/r-day-violence-in-delhi-instigated-by-bjp-aap/article33689606.ece
29 January 2021||Bengaluru,||High Court fiat on lands granted to SCs/STs||The High Court of Karnataka on Thursday directed the State government to explain measures taken to effectively implement the prohibition of registration of transfer of granted lands under the provisions of the Karnataka Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prohibition of Transfer of Certain Lands) Act, 1978. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Sachin Shankar Magadum passed the order on a PIL petition filed by 69-year-old Dasappa B. of Kuvempu Nagara in Tumakuru. The petitioner had complained about registration of granted lands in violation of the provisions of the Act in various offices of sub-registrars in the State, including in Tumakuru district. Section 6 of the Act states that notwithstanding anything in the Registration Act, 1908 no registering officer shall accept for registration any document relating to the transfer of, or to the creation of any interest in, any granted land included in a list of granted lands furnished to the registration officer except where such transfer is in accordance with this Act or the terms of the grant of such land or the law providing for such grant. The Karnataka SC and ST (Prohibition of Transfer of Certain Lands) Act was enacted to help the SC/ST grantees whose ignorance and poverty have been exploited by persons belonging to the affluent and powerful sections to obtain sales or mortgages, either for a nominal consideration or for no consideration at all, the granted lands and they have become the victims of circumstances.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/high-court-fiat-on-lands-granted-to-scssts/article33689463.ece
29 January 2021||New Delhi,||‘Deceased woman’s photo removed’||Social media platforms such as Facebook, Google and Twitter informed the Delhi High Court on Thursday that they had taken down or blocked all the links which incorrectly showed a deceased woman’s photo as that of the Hathras rape victim. The social media platforms made the submission in response to an order by the court in November last year to remove all such links which showed the deceased woman as the rape victim.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/deceased-womans-photo-removed/article33689353.ece
29 January 2021||Ghaziabad,||Protesters evicted from Baghpat||The Baghpat administration removed the farmers protesting against the farm laws on the Baghpat-Saharanpur highway in Baraut town of the district on Wednesday night. The videos of the eviction purportedly show policemen holding batons asking aged farmers to move out of the tents at night. Protesters could be seen rushing out with their quilts and other belongings. Amit Kumar Singh, Additional District Magistrate, Baghpat, said farmers were peacefully removed and no force was used.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/protesters-evicted-from-baghpat/article33689405.ece
29 January 2021||JAMMU,||It’s staged violence, says Mehbooba||Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) president Mehbooba Mufti on Thursday called for the immediate withdrawal of the farm laws, and described the violence on Republic Day as “a deliberate attempt to defame the protesting farmers”. “The essence behind observing the Republic Day is to celebrate our Constitution. However, certain laws were being framed and enacted without considering people’s opinion, like the farm laws. Therefore, the farm laws should be withdrawn immediately, as farmers’ opinion was not taken into consideration,” said the former Chief Minister, who started a tour of Jammu on Thursday. “We saw a person from the BJP, who is also known to the Prime Minister and the Home Minister, participating in the violence,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/its-staged-violence-says-mehbooba/article33689408.ece
29 January 2021||New Delhi,||‘Delhi police connived with splinter group’||The Delhi Police connived with a splinter group of farmers, allowing them to break away from the route agreed upon, and facilitated their entry into Red Fort, CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury said on Thursday. At a press conference, Mr. Yechury said the violence that unfolded on Republic Day during the farmers’ tractor rally was orchestrated to use it as an excuse to repress the movement. “Lakhs of farmers were sticking to the agreed route. A splinter group was allowed to deviate from this route. That would not have been possible without active connivance of Delhi police,” he said. It was perplexing that not only did this group reach Red Fort but they managed to get access to the ramparts of the Fort. “It is impossible to gain access to the ramparts, since the gate to this portion is kept locked,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/delhi-police-connived-with-splinter-group/article33689360.ece
29 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Uttar Pradesh wins best tableau award||Uttar Pradesh was adjudged the best tableau among the 32 tableaux, 17 from States and Union Territories (UTs), nine from various Ministries, departments and paramilitary forces and six from Defence Ministry, that participated in the Republic Day parade, the Defence Ministry said. The tableau of Uttar Pradesh was based on the theme Ayodhya: Cultural Heritage of Uttar Pradesh. Minister of State for Youth Affairs & Sports and MoS, Minority Affairs Kiren Rijiju gave away the awards to the participants on Thursday. Tableau of Tripura and Uttrakhand were adjudged the second and third best respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/uttar-pradesh-wins-best-tableau-award/article33689366.ece
29 January 2021||New Delhi,||Day 13: 4 lakh vaccinated||The total number of healthcare workers vaccinated against COVID-19 till date (the thirteenth day of the vaccination drive) crossed 28 lakh on Thursday, said a release issued by the Health Ministry. It added that a total of 4,91,615 beneficiaries were vaccinated through 9,994 sessions till 7 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/day-13-4-lakh-vaccinated/article33689415.ece
29 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Diplomatic missions must be kept safe’||India is “closely engaged” with foreign countries to ensure safety and security of diplomatic missions abroad where protests by Khalistan supporters are being witnessed. Spokesperson of the Ministry of External Affairs Anurag Srivastava said on Thursday anti-India activities of this nature are committed by a “very small fringe”. “We are closely engaged with the relevant foreign governments to apprise them of the threats posed, convey our concerns as well and to seek their interventions,” said Mr. Srivastava. He stressed that it was the responsibility of the host countries to ensure the safety and security of the Indian diplomats and diplomatic premises.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/diplomatic-missions-must-be-kept-safe/article33689375.ece
29 January 2021||Srinagar,||K.D. Sethi passes away in Jammu||Krishan Dev Sethi, 93, who was the last surviving member of the Jammu & Kashmir Constituent Assembly, passed away on Thursday. He passed away in his ancestral home at Dalpatian Mohallah, Jammu. Mr. Sethi is survived by four sons and two daughters. Born in Mirpur, now in Pakistan-Occupied Kashmir, Mr. Sethi was an elected member of the first Constituent Assembly of Jammu and Kashmir formulated in 1951. He represented the Nowshera Assembly segment. Peoples Democratic Party president Mehbooba Mufti and National Conference leaders Farooq Abdullah and Omar Abdullah expressed their condolences.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kd-sethi-passes-away-in-jammu/article33689380.ece
29 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Muraleedharan slams Rahul||Union Minister of State for External Affairs V. Muraleedharan has accused Rahul Gandhi, MP, of misleading farmers in Wayanad. He said Mr. Gandhi had attempted to push citizens on the path of agitation by stating that the farm laws were patently anti-farmer. Mr. Gandhi had said more farmers would join the protests if they realised the law’s impact on their livelihood. Mr. Muraleedharan said Mr. Gandhi had distorted the farm laws for political purpose. The new laws were farmer-centric.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/muraleedharan-slams-rahul/article33689818.ece
29 January 2021||Bengaluru,||‘One Nation One Card’ for Bengaluru: Governor||Governor Vajubhai R. Vala said on Thursday said that the long-awaited single mobility card for metro train and bus users in Bengaluru will be rolled out this year. In his customary address to a joint session of the State legislature, Mr. Vala said: “The automatic fare collection system using One Nation One Card will be set up by Bengaluru Metro Rail Corporation Ltd. and Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation during this year.” The Governor, who delivered his speech in Hindi, said: “The State government has accorded high priority for completion of the ongoing metro work. Phase 2 and Phase 2A are under progress and it is aimed to have 75 km of metro line by 2022.” He said the Centre in partnership with State government has approved Bengaluru suburban rail project at a cost of Rs. 15,767 crore to ease traffic congestion in the city. Infrastructure and development works worth Rs. 8,015 crore were approved for Bengaluru and the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike Act has been enacted as a separate law for better administration of the city, he said. In a 23-page written speech, Mr. Vala said the Transport Department has installed 126 electric vehicle charging stations in Bengaluru, through BESCOM, at a cost of Rs. 4 crore. The Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation has converted a scrap bus into a well-equipped women’s toilet called “Stree Toilet” and its initiative won an award, he said. Lauding various achievements of the government, Mr. Vala said his government has tried its best to mitigate the adverse impact of COVID-19. “I sincerely hope that the pandemic will end soon, and we will be back on the path of growth with equity. Despite the challenges and the hardships imposed by the pandemic, the achievements of my government are noteworthy,” he said. Listing the achievements and reform measures undertaken, he said: “My government has declared a war on drugs, considering its adverse impact on society, especially youngsters.” Under the school adoption programme, 1,500 schools have been adopted by people’s representatives, community leaders and NGOs, the Governor said. Despite the current challenges, the government has collected Rs. 30,467 crore through commercial taxes and Rs. 16,788 crore through the Excise Department to ensure smooth funding of development programmes of the State, Mr. Vala said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/one-nation-one-card-for-bengaluru-governor/article33689338.ece
29 January 2021||Belagavi,||Four of family found dead on railway track near Raibag||Four members of a family were found dead on the railway track near Raibag in Belagavi district on Thursday. Cattle grazers found the bodies of Satappa Annappa Sutar (60), his wife Mahadevi and sons Santosh (26) and Dattatreya (28) between the rail lines. Their heads and torsos were severed. The cattle grazers informed the Town Police who in turn informed the Railway Police. Investigators say the family members ended their lives due to financial distress. “They must have slept on the tracks just before the Hazrat Nizamuddin Express passed from here,” a railway officer told the police. The unfortunate family hailed from Biradi village near Raibag. Satappa Sutar was a carpenter who took up repair works. But he had also started a business of cutting and transporting sugarcane from fields to factories. He suffered huge losses and was forced to sell his six acres of land and a house. He used to live in a rented house for the last few years. He also suffered huge losses in the lockdown. He had taken loans from private moneylenders and was under pressure to repay. “He often spoke to his friends about the difficulty to get his children married, but never about any losses suffered,” his friend Mahadev Boragavi said. Satappa Sutar’s two sons, who died in the incident, were unmarried. Parashuram, elder son of Satappa Sutar, lives in Belagavi where he works in a furniture shop. Investigators are speaking to him to find out the reason for the extreme step. Parashuram, who was still in a state of shock, told The Hindu he had no clarity about the tragedy. A case is registered in the Railway Police Station. ( Those in distress or having suicidal tendencies can call Arogya Sahayavan on Ph: 104 for help. )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/four-of-family-found-dead-on-railway-track-near-raibag/article33689401.ece
29 January 2021||MALAPPURAM,||IUML worker stabbed to death||An Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) activist was stabbed to death at Oravumpuram, near Pandikkad, in the district on Wednesday night. The police arrested four persons in connection with the murder. Mohammed Sameer A.V., 26, suffered fatal stab wounds in his stomach when he tried to stop an attacker during a clash between two groups at Oravumpuram. The attack took place around 9.30 p.m. Sameer died in hospital around 11.30 p.m. His relative Hamza was also injured in the attack. The United Democratic Front (UDF) alleged that the Communist Party of India (Marxist) was behind the attack. However, the CPI(M) distanced itself from the incident, saying that it was a fallout of a clash between two families. The police said that members of two families were involved in Wednesday’s clash, which was the latest in a series of local political face-offs between the UDF and the CPI(M). The stand-off between the CPI(M) and the UDF had begun in the wake of the recent local body elections in which the former had suffered a setback. The police arrested Moyin Bapu, 47; his son Nisam, 22; Moyin Bapu’s brother Abdul Majeed, 39; and Yasir aka Kunhani, 21; in connection with the attack. District Police Chief U. Abdul Kareem said the police were investigating all angles. He said that a political quarrel turned into a family attack. P. Abdul Hameed, MLA, said that it was a planned murder and that the CPI(M) had been trying to terrorise the area since the local body elections. He alleged that the CPI(M) was trying to implement a new agenda by finishing off its political opponents.  ‘Family issue’ CPI(M) district secretary E.N. Mohandas said the murder was the result of a family issue, and that it was never a political attack. The UDF observed a half-day hartal in the Manjeri constituency in protest against the murder. The CPI(M) district secretariat accused the UDF of resorting to a dirty political game by trying to politicise the issue between two families. One of the four arrested in connection with the murder is an IUML worker, it said. District Congress Committee president V.V. Prakash accused the CPI(M) of trying to convert Malappuram into a land of turmoil and violence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/iuml-worker-stabbed-to-death/article33689347.ece
29 January 2021||New Delhi,||Republic TV’s parent company files case against TV anchor||Republic TV’s parent firm, ARG Outlier Media Pvt. Ltd, has filed a defamation suit before a Delhi Court against Times Now anchor Navika Kumar for allegedly making certain defamatory statements against Republic TV and its editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami in connection with the TRP scam. The suit said documents had been distorted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/republic-tvs-parent-company-files-case-against-times-now/article33689367.ece
29 January 2021||Guwahati,||Arunachal students protest Chinese claim over State||Members of the All Arunachal Pradesh Students’ Union on Thursday staged a Statewide sit-in protest against the “illogical” Chinese claim over the frontier north-eastern State and the “lethargic, half-hearted approach” of the Centre to Beijing’s expansionist policy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/arunachal-students-protest-chinese-claim-over-state/article33689368.ece
29 January 2021||New Delhi,||IMA plans relay hunger strike against ‘mixopathy’||The Indian Medical Association (IMA) members across the country will start a relay hunger strike from February 1 till 14 protesting against what they say is the shift in the government policy “where instead of promoting all the systems of medicine the government is encouraging a new method called mixopathy”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ima-plans-relay-hunger-strike-against-mixopathy/article33689371.ece
29 January 2021||New Delhi,||Online memorial soon for COVID-19 victims||In a unique tribute, an online national memorial has been conceived for those who died due to COVID-19 across the country. The website will go live from January 30 and is a venture by a Kolkata-based NGO consisting of medical staff and others. The tributes can be viewed at nationalcovidmemorial.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/online-memorial-soon-for-covid-19-victims/article33689386.ece
29 January 2021||KOCHI,||Abhaya case: HC admits Sister Sephy’s appeal||The Kerala High Court on Thursday admitted an appeal filed by Sister Sephy, one of the two convicts in the Sister Abhaya murder case, challenging the Thiruvananthapuram CBI Special Court verdict finding her guilty and awarding life term to her in the case. She contended that there was no evidence to show that she had met Father Thomas Kottoor, another convict, on the night of March 26, 1992.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/abhaya-case-hc-admits-sister-sephys-appeal/article33689339.ece
29 January 2021||HYDERABAD,||Ex-corporator killed in Jangaon||A former corporator of Jangaon was allegedly murdered by two persons on Thursday in connection with a long-standing dispute over a land parcel, police said. According to Jangaon Town Police, the victim, Puli Swami, 52, was a worker of the Telugu Desam Party. The accused have been been identified as Gaddam Naveen Kumar and Gaddam Nikhil. Police said the incident took place early in the morning when the victim went for a jog towards Hanamkonda road. Two persons on a two-wheeler allegedly attacked the unsuspecting victim from behind as he approached the Social Welfare School in Jangaon. They then allegedly attacked him with axes and also struck him in the neck. Given the grievous nature of injuries, the victim died on the spot.  “The accused are grandsons of Gaddam Narasimha, a retired army man. Gaddam Narasimha, his family and the victim claimed the same 2 acre 30 gunta land in Yashwantpur. The dispute has been going of for more than 20 years. They were fighting a case in the court over this. In 2015, Gaddam Narasimha died but the dispute continued. Yesterday, the victim got a favourable order from the court. After this, the accused planned to kill him, and killed him “ the police said. After allegedly hacking the victim to death, the accused surrendered before the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ex-corporator-killed-in-jangaon/article33689466.ece
29 January 2021||Belagavi/Bengaluru,||M.C. Managuli dead||Mallappa Channaveerappa Managuli, MLA and former Minister, died at a private hospital in Bengaluru on Thursday. He was 85. Officers said he contracted COVID-19 and was under treatment in Bengaluru. Mr. Managuli, a leader from the old Janata Parivar stables, had represented the Sindagi Assembly seat in Vijayapura several times as a Janata Party and Janata Dal (Secular) candidate. He was among the few JD(S) MLAs from North Karnataka elected to the Assembly in 2018. He had served as Minister of Rural Development and Horticulture. A soft-spoken leader who steered clear of controversies, he was considered very close to JD(S) supremo H.D. Deve Gowda. He was instrumental in the establishment of the government horticulture college in Vijayapura district. Mr. Managuli was airlifted to Bengaluru after he developed breathing problems in a private hospital in Vijayapura. He leaves behind his wife, four sons and a daughter. Assembly Speaker Vishweshawara Hegde Kageri, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah, and JD(S) leaders H.D. Kumaraswamy and Mr. Gowda have condoled his death. Leaders in the Assembly also condoled the deaths of S.L. Dharme Gowda, Deputy Chairman of the Legislative Council, Renuka Rajendran, former Minister, R.N. Shetty, businessman, and six other personalities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mc-managuli-dead/article33689499.ece
29 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Startups to start door delivery of diesel to commercial units||Diesel supply by startups is likely to catch up soon in Tamil Nadu. Around a dozen service-providers have tied up with the oil majors for supply to commercial establishments that require large quantities of the fuel. Oil industry sources said the startups were in various stages of tying up and applying for licences, including one from the Petroleum and Explosives Safety Organisation (PESO). “Though they have started discussions with prospective clients, they have not yet started supply,” said an official. Automation system Apart from fuel supply from outlets that have overhead filling points, the oil marketing companies would provide them with their automation system. “This would know the quantity taken by them, the indent from the end customer would also allow the customers to make payments,” the official said. The startups have tied up with oil marketing companies after the Centre permitted them to supply to commercial customers, including industries, construction sites, hostels, wedding halls and educational institutions. A. Vinodhraj, founder and CEO, GoFuel India Pvt Ltd, said he had already held discussions with clients and established a 24-hour helpline. “We find there is a good demand for supply of diesel at the doorstep since with services like ours, institutions need not maintain a vehicle for this, store jerry cans or have a driver to handle the fuel. We can also ensure zero wastage and eliminate adulteration. Right now, we can give at the same price as sold at petrol pumps,” he said. Meanwhile, it has been over a year since diesel-at-your-doorstep was started by fuel outlets that had space for filling bousers and separate storage tanks. A dealer said door-delivery was going on but not for the purposes meant. “Many are supplying to truckers and bus fleet owners. Along with this, illegal bousers are doing business side by side, and the oil industry is not taking steps to stop it. Also, in the startups, we hear around 40,000 bousers are to hit the roads all over the country. The government also wants to start around 50,000 fuel outlets. There are already 70,000 fuel outlets in the country,” said a dealer. Spurious bio-diesel Apart from all these, spurious bio-diesel is being sold Rs. 18 cheaper than the diesel at outlets. “While the government wants to promote easy supply to consumers, we would appreciate if it is done according to the guidelines. Violators must be caught and penalised,” said the dealer. He pointed out that supply to malls, hotels, hospitals and other public places having access to fuel outlets was not permitted under the guidelines. They could only supply to remote sites, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/startups-to-start-door-delivery-of-diesel-to-commercial-units/article33689544.ece
29 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State has so far spent around Rs. 480 crore on RT-PCR kits||Tamil Nadu has so far spent approximately Rs. 480 crore on procuring RT-PCR testing kits for COVID-19. It has placed direct orders for 1,09,03,428 testing kits through the Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation (TNMSC). Since the beginning of the pandemic, the State has been relying only on RT-PCR tests for the diagnosis of COVID-19. Gold standard Officials have maintained that RT-PCR tests are the gold standard for COVID-19 testing and as a policy, had decided against the use of rapid antigen diagnostic tests. As a result, Tamil Nadu has done 100% testing by RT-PCR kits. Till date, a total of 1,58,60,674 samples have been tested by the method. The total number of persons covered so far stands at 1,55,49,828. These were done through government laboratory tests, government free test samples sent to private laboratories and paid tests by individuals in private laboratories. “Around Rs. 480 crore has been spent on testing kits till now. We have procured only USFDA/CE-IVD-approved RT-PCR kits to ensure quality testing at government laboratories. We are importing kits from the U.S. and South Korea,” an official said. TNMSC officials said so far, the State government, through TNMSC, had placed direct orders for 1,09,03,428 testing kits, of which 1,02,59,428 had been supplied as of January 27. The Centre had supplied 2,78,256 kits as one-time supply in the initial three months of the pandemic, while 63,516 were received as donations from private firms. With this, TNMSC has received a total of 1,06,01,200 kits. Balance stock It released 98,49,472 kits to the field, and has a balance stock of 7,51,728. At the field level, 9,78,064 kits are available. Officials added that as on date, 17,29,792 kits were available with TNMSC and on the field. “This is approximately a six weeks’ requirement as per the current testing trends in government institutions,” the official said. An authority at a government medical college hospital said test kits were freely available and supplied in advance based on previous month’s utilisation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-has-spent-around-rs-480-cr-on-rt-pcr-kits/article33689529.ece
29 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||503 more persons contract infection||Tamil Nadu reported 503 new cases of COVID-19 on Thursday, taking its tally to 8,36,818. Another 544 persons were discharged, even as six more persons succumbed to the infection. Of the fresh cases, Chennai accounted for 151, followed by Coimbatore (48) and Chengalpattu (41). Except Kallakurichi, which had no new case, the remaining districts saw under 30 cases each — there were 25 in Tiruppur, 19 in Tiruchi, 18 in Erode, 17 in Kancheepuram, 16 in Salem and 14 in Tiruvallur. Of these, 21 districts recorded cases in single digits. Presently, 4,629 persons are under treatment for COVID-19. This includes 1,582 persons in Chennai, 426 in Coimbatore and 351 in Chengalpattu. Till date, 8,19,850 persons have been discharged after treatment and 12,339 have died. Of the six fatalities, four persons died in Chennai. Thanjavur and Tiruvallur registered one death each. Among them were two persons in their 50s. A 52-year-old woman from Chennai, who had diabetes and hypertension, was admitted to a private hospital with complaint of fever, cough and difficulty in breathing for eight days on January 26. She died on January 28 due to COVID-19 pneumonia. A 57-year-old woman from Chennai with diabetes, hypertension, coronary artery disease, anaemia and chronic kidney disease died at a private hospital on January 23 due to COVID-19 pneumonia. A 65-year-old woman from Thanjavur, who had diabetes, died within two hours of admission at the Government Headquarters Hospital in Kumbakonam on January 27, due to acute respiratory distress syndrome and COVID-19 pneumonia. She had complaints of fever and difficulty in breathing for 15 days. A total of 52,457 samples were tested in the last 24 hours. Till now, 1,58,60,674 samples have been tested in the State. As many as 6,428 persons received COVID-19 vaccines on Thursday, taking the total number of inoculated persons to 88,467. On the 13th day of immunisation, 6,172 persons received Covishield and 256 Covaxin. Till date, 86,310 healthcare workers have received Covishield and 2,157 Covaxin.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/503-persons-contract-infection-six-more-die/article33689532.ece
29 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Bike sharing to be extended to more areas in Chennai||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Thursday launched e-bikes and next gen bikes to facilitate non-motorised transport along Marina Beach and in various parts of the city. The bicycle sharing system was proposed to be implemented at a cost of Rs. 9.5 crore under the Chennai Smart City mission, covering 378 stations and 5,000 smart bikes. E-bike users have to pay Rs. 10 for the first 10 minutes and Rs. 1 for every subsequent minute. The charges for the next gen bike and the eco-bike are Rs. 5.5 for the first hour and Rs. 9.9 for the subsequent half an hour. At present, 500 e-bikes and 500 next gen bikes are ready for launch in various parts of the city. “The bicycle sharing system has been implemented at 78 locations with 500 smart bikes in areas such as T. Nagar, Rajiv Gandhi Salai and Marina Beach. We will increase the number of stations to 500, covering all parts of the city, in one year,” said an official. There are three types of bikes — eco-bike, e-bike and next gen bike — in the bicycle sharing system in Chennai. The bicycles can be hired by smartphone users as only digital payment is accepted through the SmartBike App. The bicycles will be available between 5 a.m. and 10 p.m. every day. Greater Chennai Corporation officials said the bicycle sharing system had been launched in 14 Metro Rail stations in the city. Seven new bicycle stations would be set up at St. Thomas Mount, Alandur, Guindy, Mannady, Saidapet, Thousand Lights and Tondiarpet Metro stations shortly. Post-pandemic slump At present, on average, about 100 people use the bicycles every day. The number of users had decreased from 500 to 100 after the COVID-19 pandemic. Officials said they expected at least 8,000 users every day after the launch of the new e-bikes and next gen bikes. The civic body is planning to create dedicated bicycle lanes for promoting non-motorised transport.  The bicycle sharing system has been implemented at 78 locations with 500 bikes in areas such as T. Nagar, Rajiv Gandhi Salai and Marina beach Corporation Official||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bicycle-sharing-will-be-extended-to-more-areas/article33689540.ece
29 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Search launched to nab man who ran unregistered home in Chennai||The police have launched a search for the man who was in-charge of an unregistered home for children in Vyasarpadi, where he sexually abused minor girls. On Monday, the officials of the Social Defence Department and the police rescued 18 minor girls, who allegedly faced sexual abuse at the home run by an NGO in Vyasarpadi. They were rescued after Childline 1098 received a call that the children were sexually abused by Kalyanasundaram, who was in charge of the home. The team produced the children before the CWC and put them up at another home near Chetpet. The children were all girls in the 9-17 age group, and they alleged that they had been sexually abused, said the police sources. A case has been registered at the All-Woman Police Station, M.K.B. Nagar, against Kalyanasundaram under Sections of 9(O) (whoever, being in the ownership or management or staff, of any institution providing services to the child, commits sexual assault on the child in such institution) and 10 (Punishment for agravated sexual assault) of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. A senior police officer said, “The accused went missing when we went to rescue the children. He may not have gone far. A manhunt has been launched and soon we will arrest him.”  The accused went missing when we went to rescue the children. He may not have gone far Senior Police Officer||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/search-launched-to-nab-man-who-ran-unregistered-childrens-home-in-vyasarpadi/article33689549.ece
29 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CIBA achieves breakthrough in captive breeding of grey mullet fish||After achieving a breakthrough in captive breeding of Grey Mullet (Madavai), a highly sought-after brackish water fish for the first time in the country, the Central Institute of Brackishwater Aquaculture (CIBA), on Thursday announced the long-awaited breeding technology as part of green revolution initiatives by the Central government. The first batch of hatchery produced grey mullet seeds, and species-specific feeds for grey mullet were distributed to four farmers from Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Kerala in a stakeholder meet at CIBA’s Muttukadu Experimental Station. Director of CIBA K.K. Vijayan said the fish could be farmed in diverse farming systems, such as monoculture, polyculture and integrated multi-trophic aquaculture mode (IMTA), with potential output of 4 tonnes per hectare/crop, with high profitability. “CIBA has given greater priority for the breeding of grey mullet since 2015 and successful breeding and larval production were achieved using pond-reared brood stock in 2016-17. The third batch of hatchery-reared grey mullet was completed this season,” Mr. Vijayan explained. Grey mullets are the preferred choice of consumers due to their taste, texture, less spines, and nutritive value. The fish, relished by consumers, fetches good market price in the range of Rs. 350 to Rs. 500 per kg. Fast growth rates and feeding habits and acceptance of formulated pellet feed makes this vegetarian fish an ideal candidate not only for brackish water farming, but also for freshwater and marine farming.  “The farmers will raise the seeds in their farms and CIBA will buy back from them for further breeding and seed production. These initiatives towards species domestication may make a wider breeding window of grey mullet availability and the process of induced maturation less challenging,” said Dr. M. Kailasam, Principal Scientist Head in-charge-of fin-fish culture division. Dr. Joykrushna Jena, Deputy Director General (Fisheries), ICAR, said that mullet had always been a cherished fish and historically a part of brackish water aquaculture and amenable for farming in different culture systems and salinity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ciba-achieves-breakthrough-in-captive-breeding-of-grey-mullet-fish/article33689556.ece
29 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Selfie point on Marina beach inaugurated||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Thursday launched the Namma Chennai Selfie Point on Marina beach. The artwork has been modelled on the structures at Delhi, Hyderabad and Bengaluru. Experts and artists came up with various designs. Corporation Commissioner G. Prakash finalised the design of the artwork after getting the nod from the State government. The structure, estimated to have a budget of Rs. 24 lakh, has been designed to withstand any cyclone and weighs 2.5 tonnes. The project has been funded by the Smart City mission. Namma Chennai is part of the development of an art district in the city. “The structure is 28 feet in width, 10 feet in height and has a thickness of 2 feet. We want it to become another landmark on Marina beach. The selfie point is the first one in Tamil Nadu and the fourth in the country,” said Corporation Deputy Commissioner (Works) Meghanatha Reddy. “The structure is a blend of Tamil and English. The selfie point will help tourists create fond memories of the city. The artwork shows that the city belongs to the people,” an official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/selfie-point-on-marina-beach-inaugurated/article33689536.ece
29 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Oil companies ask distributors to ensure faster deliveries||With competition from private companies and within the oil industry, the three oil majors are asking distributors to be more proactive while servicing liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) customers. They are bringing in more ways to ensure faster supply, with fewer hassles, to the customers. “During the pandemic, we introduced a one-time code, called the delivery authentication code, to do away with the paper delivery challans. Around 65% of our consumers have switched over to this. They just have to share the number with the delivery boy, they do not need to sign the delivery slip and return it to the man,” said an official of Indian Oil Corporation. The company, which has over 1.3 crore LPG consumers in the State, launched a new Integrated Voice Response System booking number in November last. “Consumers who want to add their registered mobile number can do so by dialling 7718955555. It will take them on a path where it will ask for the consumer’s 16-digit ID. This is usually found on the delivery challan, or the respective gas agency can help. If not, all OMCs have online gas booking portals where the number can be found on submitting the old consumer number and the name of the agency,” explained an oil industry source. A distributor said they were doing as much as possible and in many cases were even giving same-day supplies. “When customers call us up, saying they are out of gas, we take steps to supply as soon as possible. After all, domestic consumers are our mainstay. In many cases, we have developed a long-time relationship with consumers,” he said. Consumer activist T. Sadagopan said the supply chain of LPG bottles from the filling point to the end consumer needs to be fine-tuned further. Meanwhile, OMCs are facing tough competition from private players in the LPG business. Total Gas, which has been present in the State for over two decades, has cornered a portion of the sales in the commercial, industrial, auto LPG and domestic LPG segments. This is despite the fact that they sell non-subsidised LPG.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/oil-companies-ask-distributors-to-ensure-faster-deliveries/article33689545.ece
29 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||IMD opens portal for public to share info||The India Meteorological Department has opened a portal that allows the public to share details about weather events in their surroundings. Weather enthusiasts can report specific local weather events, such as rain, hailstorm or fog, in their area through the webpagehttps:// city.imd.gov.in/ citywx/ crowd/ enter_th_ datag.php. The Regional Meteorological Centre, Chennai, has provided a link to the portal on its website. Officials said the portal, launched at the national level, had the provision for people from various places to report local weather phenomenon. Members of the public can upload photographs and share details about the damage caused in their area. Better coverage S. Balachandran, Deputy Director-General of Meteorology, Chennai, said crowdsourcing the details would help in collating weather data, especially from places that did not have observatories. For instance, a few districts, such as Ranipet, did not have a weather observatory and public participation would help improve forecasts. Weather services such as Nowcast warnings would be improved, he said. “We will verify the details through other sources. The facility may soon be introduced in regional languages, depending on the patronage,” he added. On the weather for the next few days, he said the State may experience largely dry weather, except for light rain in one or two places of south Tamil Nadu till February 1. Easterly wind convergence may bring isolated light rain. On Thursday, only Adhiramapattinam in Thanjavur district recorded 0.4 mm rain between 8.30 a.m. and 5.30 p.m. in the State. The department forecasts that shallow fog or mist is likely in one or two places over the State during morning hours. On Thursday, Udhagamandalam recorded a minimum temperature of 5 degree Celsius, the lowest in the State for the second day, followed by Valparai with a minimum temperature of 6.5 degree Celsius. The weather stations in Coonoor and Kodaikanal saw a dip in minimum temperature. On the ground frost in Udagamandalam, Mr. Balachandran termed it a localised phenomenon occurring in some places. The local observatory did not report the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/imd-opens-portal-for-public-to-share-info-on-weather/article33689563.ece
29 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Ramadoss is hiding what we did for Vanniyars, says Stalin||PMK founder S. Ramadoss is hiding the benefits given by the erstwhile DMK government to the Vanniyars and propagating lies for his personal gain, DMK president M.K. Stalin said on Thursday. Speaking at an event through video-conference to induct workers from various parties into the DMK in Cuddalore district, he said this was the reason many PMK workers (over 600) were joining the DMK. Mr. Stalin said it was the erstwhile DMK government that had put the Vanniyars on the Most Backward Class (MBC) list, created 20% reservation for these sections and given financial compensation to those who had laid down their lives for the cause. “It was the DMK government that had appointed a DGP from the MBC for the first time, a member from the MBC to the Tamil Nadu Public Service Commission, and a Vanniyar as the Vice-Chancellor of the University of Madras,” the DMK president said. “The more Dr. Ramadoss criticises the DMK, more PMK workers will quit that party and join the DMK.” he said. Mr. Stalin said it was the DMK that would protect social justice, fight for the working class and create jobs. He also accused the AIADMK government, led by Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, of being corrupt.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ramadoss-hiding-what-we-did-for-vanniyars-stalin/article33689522.ece
29 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Cauvery realisation exceeds 200 tmc ft for a third time||For the third year in a row, Tamil Nadu’s Cauvery water realisation has crossed the 200 tmc-ft mark. As of now, the total realisation, as measured by the Central Water Commission on the inter-State border in Billigundulu up to Tuesday (January 26) from June 1, is about 33 tmc ft (thousand million cubic feet) more than the State’s share for the elapsed period of the current water year (June-May). The overall figure stood at 200.13 tmc ft. Shutters closed At 6 p.m. on Thursday, shutters of the Mettur dam, the lifeline of the Cauvery delta, were closed for irrigation in the region. The water release began on June 12, the designated date of dam opening. According to an estimate, around 165 tmc ft was released in the last seven-and-a-half months for irrigation. However, a senior official of the Public Works Department (PWD) said it would take a few days to finalise an exact figure. With availability not being an issue this year, thanks to steady release from Mettur and a relatively moderate northeast monsoon, the State hopes to put up a decent show as far as the production of food crops is concerned. As on Monday (January 25), during the cultivation season of Samba/Thaladi/Pishanam, which is getting over now , about 5.46 lakh hectares has been covered in the delta and 8.357 lakh hectares in the rest of the State, totalling 13.8 lakh hectares. This is about 30,000 hectares more than the target. In respect of the cultivation season of Kar/Kuruvai/Sornavari (which is normally over by September or October), the area achieved is 3.019 lakh hectares, which is just ahead of the planned coverage. For the season of Navarai/Kodai. which is in the initial stages , the target is 2.235 lakh hectares. Food crops As for food grains, paddy has been raised over 18.047 lakh hectares, against the target of 18.75 lakh hectares; millets on 9.619 lakh hectares (9.5 lakh hectares) and pulses on 6.018 lakh hectares (9.5 lakh hectares). As for the gap in respect of pulses, an official of the Agriculture Department cited the damage caused by Cyclone Nivar and unseasonal rainfall, affecting the crop in Villupuram and Thoothukudi districts. However, the official said efforts were being made to bridge the gap by motivating the delta farmers to take to pulses.  At 6 p.m. on Thursday, shutters of the Mettur dam, the lifeline of the Cauvery delta, were closed for irrigation in the region. . The water release began on June 12||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cauvery-realisation-exceeds-200-tmc-ft-for-a-third-time/article33689524.ece
29 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Doctors plan relay fast against ‘mixopathy’||Members of the Indian Medical Association (IMA) will observe a nationwide relay hunger strike from February 1 to 14 against “mixopathy”. On February 14, the medical fraternity plans to take out a march in every State capital. The IMA has been demanding the rollback of a notification of the Central Council of Indian Medicine that allows postgraduate ayurveda practitioners to perform 58 types of surgeries. It held protests in December 2020. “We will strive hard to maintain the purity of the medical profession. Each stream of medicine has its own individuality but the Centre is trying to promote mixopathy. We have filed a case in the Supreme Court but the Centre, which said it will consider our demands, has not taken any steps to drop its plan,” IMA national president J.A. Jayalal told reporters on Thursday. The IMA will launch a massive awareness drive “Save Healthcare India Movement” across the country as this was “a clear threat to the healthcare of people”. As part of the nationwide agitation, the IMA members will be on relay hunger strike at 50 places across the country. In Tamil Nadu, the protest will be held in Chennai, Tiruchi, Tirunelveli, and Coimbatore or Erode. On February 7, women doctors would take part in the hunger strike and medical students would also participate. “The government should take steps to develop ayurveda, Siddha and Unani separately, and should drop this move of mixopathy. Doctors should treat patients as per their training. We, on completion of MBBS, take up three years of study for surgery and then specialise. Already, there are quacks who perform procedures, and this mixopathy will legalise such practices, putting people’s lives at risk,” Dr. Jayalal said and added that there was no antibiotic or anaesthesia in Ayurveda. Shortage of doctors He said the Centre’s move was aimed at addressing the shortage of doctors. As per the World Health Organization, there should be one doctor for every 1,000 people. “In north India, the doctor-patient ratio is 1:1,400, while it is 1:700 in Tamil Nadu and 1:600 in Kerala. There are 12 lakh allopathy doctors in the country and seven lakh ayurveda practitioners,” he said. As per the National Education Policy, the proposal was to bring in integrative medicine by 2030 in which one doctor can practice all specialities. “We are against this concept. This will promote practice by untrained persons,” he said. Dr. Jayalal appealed to healthcare and frontline workers to take Covishield and Covaxin vaccines. “This will help create herd immunity. All IMA leaders have taken the vaccines,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/doctors-plan-relay-fast-against-mixopathy/article33689552.ece
29 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Thai Poosam’ fest draws crowds||Temples dedicated to Lord Muruga and Lord Shiva witnessed large crowds of devotees on Thursday on the occasion of ‘Thai Poosam’. At the Subramaniaswamy temple in Vadapalani, popularly known as the Vadapalani Andavar temple, around 45,000 devotees had darshan. The idol was decked in raja alankaram in the morning, special sandalwood paste in the afternoon and pushpa angi (made of flowers) in the evening. Over 150 policemen and 30 volunteers helped ensure the safety of visitors. “Since the temple is under renovation, kavadi , alagu and paal kodams were not allowed. Vibhuthi and pongal were distributed to devotees,” said a source in the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Department. The Thiruporur Subramaniaswamy temple, too, witnessed large crowds, with over 300 policemen being deployed to manage the rush. The three-day temple float festival also got under way at the Kapaleeswarar temple. At the Tiruvottiyur Vadivudaiamman temple, along with ‘Thai Poosam’, a special thadaga pradhishtai homam was conducted. “We did this since the temple tank had water after a long time, following the monsoon. We will conduct the float festival on Friday,” a temple source said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/thai-poosam-fest-draws-crowds/article33689548.ece
29 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Congress, DMK destroyed Tamil culture, says BJP leader||Tamil Nadu got a large number of schemes and projects in the last six years, compared with the previous years, and the Congress-DMK combine destroyed Tamil culture, C.T. Ravi, BJP national general secretary in charge of Tamil Nadu, said on Thursday. At a press conference here, he questioned Congress leader Rahul Gandhi’s statement that the BJP was destroying Tamil culture. “In 2011, who banned jallikattu? Who submitted the affidavit to court? Who destroyed Tamil culture? Rahul Gandhi, his party and the DMK... they destroyed Tamil culture,” he said. Mr. Ravi said that while the Congress-led government gave importance to Mughal monuments, it was Prime Minister Narendra Modi who was giving importance to Indian monuments, and he showcased Mamallapuram (during his second informal summit with Chinese President Xi Jinping). Asked whether V.K. Sasikala’s release from prison would impact Tamil Nadu politics, he said the BJP was concerned only with strengthening its base. BJP State president L. Murugan lashed out at a journalist who sought to know whether religious rituals for Lord Murugan would be performed in Tamil at all temples. He said they would be done as per the Agamas and questioned the need for people, other than those qualified to carry them out, to step into the sanctum sanctorum.  In 2011, who banned jallikattu? Who submitted the affidavit to court? Who destroyed Tamil culture? Rahul Gandhi, his party and the DMK C.T. Ravi BJP national general secretary in-charge of Tamil Nadu||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/congress-dmk-destroyed-tamil-culture-says-bjp-leader/article33689518.ece
29 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Private colleges brought under Health Dept.||The Higher Education Department has issued an order transferring the Rajah Muthiah Medical College and Hospital, the Rani Meyyammai College of Nursing and the Rajah Muthiah Dental College and Hospital to the Health Department. The order follows an announcement by Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam in his 2020-2021 Budget speech that the medical college would function, henceforth, as the Government Medical College, Cuddalore. According to the order, the registrar of Annamalai University had sent a detailed proposal to the Health and Family Welfare Department. Since the buildings functioned as one unit and could not be segregated, the university was handing over 113.21 acres, including land, building, assets, equipment and furniture, estimated at Rs. 249.99 crore, the registrar said. As of November 30, 2020, the institutions had 332 teachers and 1,426 non-teaching staff, besides 287 pensioners. It also had a liability of Rs. 840.93 crore. The Health and Family Welfare Department will issue a separate order on the status of the staff, the filling up of seats and fee structure, and the change of affiliation to the Tamil Nadu Dr. MGR Medical University. ‘Issue timeline’ Doctors’ Association for Social Equality general secretary G.R. Ravindranath said the Health Department should immediately issue a timeline for the affiliation of the college with the State medical university. The order has come seven months late, he said, adding that the Department should also announce the reduction of fee for the affiliated colleges, including the IRT-Perundurai Medical College, which has since been renamed the Government Medical College, Erode. Students of the Rajah Muthiah Medical and Dental College had gone on an indefinite strike, lasting over 50 days, demanding that the fee structure be on a par with government medical colleges since the State had taken over the institutions. Last week, the university closed the colleges indefinitely after students threatened to boycott emergency services. The students, however, continued their protest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-private-colleges-brought-under-health-department/article33689526.ece
29 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Teams formed to nab jewellery thief||Special police teams have been deputed to Rajasthan and other States to nab an employee of Lalitha Jewellery corporate office, who went missing with over 5 kg of gold jewellery last week. A senior police officer said, “We unravelled the modus operandi of the suspect. Three special teams have been constituted to trace him. Soon, we will nab the accused.” Murugan, manager of the jewellery store, which has an office on Habibullah Road, lodged a complaint at the Teynampet police station on Tuesday. He alleged that after the weekly holiday on Sunday, employees noticed that 5.2 kg gold jewellery was missing from the stock. The needle of suspicion fell on Praveen from Rajasthan, who had worked in the stock section for the last seven years. He did not turn up on Monday. His cellphone was switched off and his whereabouts were unknown. The police said CCTV camera footage showed Praveen putting the jewellery in a bag and walking away with it from the office.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/special-teams-formed-to-apprehend-jewellery-thief/article33689546.ece
29 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chennai Metro north line inspection next week||The Commissioner of Metro Rail Safety (CMRS) has informed Chennai Metro Rail Ltd. (CMRL) that the inspection of phase I extension project in north Chennai will be taken up from January 31 to February 2. The Washermenpet-Wimco Nagar stretch of the line can be commissioned only after the CMRS issues clearance. On Tuesday, a team from the CMRS, Bengaluru, visited the city to look at the technical specifications of the project, such as operations of trains planned and to check whether the stations had been built as per specification, sources said. For three days, the CMRS will check all safety aspects, such as the access to emergency exits, and see whether the structures like tunnels and walkways have been built according to specifications. The team will inspect amenities, such as automatic fare collection gates, passenger information display system, ticket-vending machine, air conditioning and travel card readers. “After their visit on Tuesday, they have sought additional information. This has to be furnished to them before their visit on Monday,” a source said. In one underground station, an additional length of a wall had been built to act as a barrier during train movement and the CMRL had been asked to demolish it. “We expect that there may be some corrective actions to be taken based on their comments. We have to execute them before starting operations,” sources added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/inspection-of-metro-north-line-to-begin-next-week/article33689550.ece
29 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Counselling for lapsed NRI medical seats||The Directorate of Medical Education has opened counselling for lapsed NRI seats in the MBBS course under management quota in self-financing medical colleges and BDS seats in self-financing dental colleges. Candidates who have qualified in NEET UG 2020 and willing to participate in counselling for these lapsed NRI seats in the MBBS course and management quota seats in the BDS course may fill the applications online and upload the required documents from January 28 to 30. Those who have already applied and are in the merit list need not apply. Candidates who applied from January 23 to 25 for BDS management quota seats need not apply again as they are eligible for NRI lapsed seats for MBBS course in self-financing medical colleges. Vacancy for MBBS course is available in NRI lapsed seats only and the vacancy position has been released in the DME’s official websites, the selection secretary said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/counselling-for-lapsed-nri-medical-seats/article33689551.ece
29 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Increase patrolling to check crimes’||Makkal Needhi Maiam founder Kamal Haasan on Thursday said that police should focus on preventing crimes, such as daylight robberies in Hosur, Krishnagiri, and Sirkazhi recently. In a social media post, Mr. Haasan said that these incidents of crimes committed brazenly were shocking. “The police’s quick response to the Sirkazhi crime is appreciable. But with a view towards preventing crimes, the police should increase night patrolling and improve intelligence,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/increase-patrolling-to-check-crimes/article33689565.ece
29 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Auto driver returns lost valuables||An autorickshaw driver returned a bag with 50 sovereigns of gold jewellery, which was left behind in the vehicle, to the owner. The police said on Wednesday, Paul Bright, a resident of Lakshmipuram, Chrompet, was returning home in an autorickshaw after attending his daughter’s wedding at a church. After reaching his residence, he realised that he had misplaced a small bag, containing 50 sovereigns of gold jewellery. He lodged a complaint and the case was taken up by personnel from the Chrompet police station. The police scrutinised CCTV camera footage and identified the autorickshaw’s driver. Even as the police began tracing him, the driver came to Mr. Bright’s residence on his own and returned the bag with the valuables. The police appreciated the driver’s action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/auto-driver-returns-lost-valuables/article33689534.ece
29 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Youth held for theft in Mangadu||Personnel from the Mangadu police station on Thursday arrested a 23-year-old for allegedly stealing gold jewellery and mobile phones from a wedding hall. According to the police, the complainant, M. Vijayakumar, of Pammal, said he had stayed with his family at a room in a wedding hall located in Panipudur on Tuesday. They stepped out briefly and on returning, found that someone had broken into the locked room and made off with 7.5 sovereigns of gold jewellery and two mobile phones. After going through CCTV camera footage, the police arrested Paneerdas alias Panneerselvam, of Pozhichalur, and remanded him in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/youth-held-for-theft-in-mangadu/article33689537.ece
29 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||J.P. Nadda to visit T.N.||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president J.P. Nadda will visit Tamil Nadu and Puducherry for three days and will hold meetings with the party leaders and address public meetings in Madurai and Puducherry. Mr. Nadda will reach Madurai on Friday night. Temple visit On January 30, he will visit the Meenakshi Amman temple, and will hold meetings with the party’s core committee, social media volunteers and others. In the evening, he is scheduled to address a public meeting, following which he will address a meeting of the party’s office-bearers. On January 31, Mr. Nadda will reach Puducherry, where he will again hold a meeting with the party’s core committee. He will also address a public meeting around 11 a.m. Following that, the BJP president will hold a meeting with the BJP’s alliance partners in the Union Territory. Mr. Nadda was scheduled to visit Tamil Nadu and Puducherry in December last but the visit was postponed after he contracted COVID-19. The BJP president had recently taken part in Tamil magazine Thuglak ’ s anniversary event in Chennai on Pongal day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/jp-nadda-to-visit-tn-puducherry/article33689557.ece
29 January 2021||CHENNAI / THENI,TAMIL NADU||Panneerselvam’s son wishes Sasikala a speedy recovery||V.P. Jaya Pradeep, son of Deputy Chief Minister and AIADMK coordinator O. Panneerselvam, on Thursday wished former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa’s aide V.K. Sasikala a recovery from COVID-19. In a social media post, he also called upon her to pay attention to “virtuous activity” ( aram ) in future and lead “a happy life.” Clarifying that his message was “not political but humane” Mr. Pradeep, a member of the party, said he had expressed what struck him. On Wednesday, the party expelled Subramania Raja, joint secretary of the Tirunelveli town unit for the MGR Mandram, for having brought out a poster, welcoming Ms. Sasikala back to steer the affairs of the AIADMK.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/deputy-cms-son-wishes-sasikala-speedy-recovery/article33689564.ece
29 January 2021||CHENNAI/THENI,TAMIL NADU||Panneerselvam’s son wishes Sasikala||V.P. Jaya Pradeep, son of Deputy Chief Minister and AIADMK coordinator O. Panneerselvam, on Thursday wished former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa’s aide V.K. Sasikala a recovery from COVID-19. In a Facebook post, he also called upon her to pay attention to “virtuous activity” ( aram ) in future and lead “a happy life.” Clarifying that his message was “not political but humane” Mr. Pradeep, a member of the party, said he had expressed what struck him. On Wednesday, the party expelled Subramania Raja, joint secretary of Tirunelveli town unit for MGR Mandram, for having brought out a poster, welcoming Sasikala back to steer the affairs of the AIADMK. In February 2017, Mr. Panneerselvam, revolted against Sasikala, after resigning from the post of Chief Minister. He had then said that he was “compelled” to quit the post and “humiliated” while holding the office.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/panneerselvams-son-wishes-sasikala/article33690054.ece
29 January 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Devotees throng Marudhamalai temple for Thai Poosam||Even with restrictions imposed due to the COVID-19 pandemic, thousands of devotees thronged the Subramaniyaswami Temple at Marudhamalai for the Thai Poosam festival on Thursday. Officials from the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR&CE) Department said the devotees were not allowed inside the temple till 7 a.m. The Thirukalyana Utsavam and Thiru Veedhi Ula rituals were held on the temple premises between 4.30 a.m. and 7 a.m. in the absence of devotees. With the State government declaring a public holiday for the Thai Poosam festival, a large number of devotees waited along the stretch of Marudhamalai Road on Thursday morning and were allowed inside the temple for darshan after 7 a.m. As no private vehicles were allowed, they were taken to the temple in six buses - three government buses and three buses arranged - by the HR&CE Department. All devotees were required to wear masks inside the temple premises at all times, the officials said. The temple authorities also decided to extend the closing time of the temple by an hour on Thursday to accommodate the devotees arriving at the temple. No major violations were reported, according to the HR&CE officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/devotees-throng-marudhamalai-temple-for-thai-poosam/article33689572.ece
29 January 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Medical officers, nurses, supervisors top the list of vaccine takers in Coimbatore district||Medical officers and nurses/supervisors have topped the list of COVID-19 vaccine takers in Coimbatore district. As per the statistics shared by the Health Department, 6,968 people received the first shot of Covishield vaccine in Coimbatore district since the launch of the nation-wide inoculation drive on January 16. Of the total number of vaccine takers, more than 2,300 persons were medical officers and 1,920 were nurses/supervisors working in Government and private hospitals in the district. Nursing students, paramedical staff and support staff stood next to medical officers and nurses/supervisors. Deputy Director of Health Services said that the Health Department has slowly increased the number of sessions in Coimbatore district. When launched on January 16, the vaccine was administered in four sessions conducted at four sites namely the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital (CMCH), Government Hospital at Mettupalayam, Pollachi and the Primary Health Centre at Nallattipalayam. Sessions increased “Now, we have increased the number of sessions to 15,” said Dr. Kumar. A maximum of 100 persons shall be administered the vaccine in a session. CMCH topped the list of sites for administering the maximum number of 3,852 doses. The vaccine administration session at the Government Medical College and ESI Hospital comes under the CMCH. On Thursday, Puthiya Tamilagam founder K. Krishnasamy received the vaccine from ESI Hospital. Out of the 6,968 persons who have received the vaccine in the district so far, around 5,800 takers were from urban areas. More doses arrive Coimbatore district was initially allotted 40,600 doses of Covishield vaccine ahead of the launch of the inoculation drive on January 16. Recently, the district was allotted additional 20,000 doses of the vaccine, said officials with the Health Department. Each vaccine vial contains 10 doses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/medical-officers-nurses-supervisors-top-the-list-of-vaccine-takers-in-coimbatore-district/article33689577.ece
29 January 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Textiles Committee signs MoU with Japanese organisation||The Textiles Committee, Ministry of Textiles, and Nissenken Quality Evaluation Centre, Japan, have signed a Memorandum of Understanding to ensure quality of textile and clothing exports to Japan as specified by Japanese buyers. According to an official press release, the main objective of the MoU is to provide the required support to the textile trade and industry to meet the quality requirements of Japanese buyers through testing, inspection and conformity assessment, training, capacity building, research and development and consultancy. The MoU will strengthen the bilateral trade between India and Japan. Union Minister for Textiles Smriti Irani highlighted at the virtual event on January 27 the challenges related to stringent quality standards for exports to Japan and expressed confidence that the MoU will help create awareness on the quality parameters sought by the importers based in Japan. It will offer hand-holding support to the Indian exporters to adopt and upgrade their technology and enhance the quality of products and satisfy the stipulations as required by the Japanese importers. Both the institutions will share and exchange relevant technical information and documentation on a regular basis and carry out activities related to standards, quality assurance norms, joint research projects on testing, development of user friendly tools for dissemination of data to the industry and facilitate sourcing across the textile value chain in both the countries. The signing ceremony was presided over by the Minister for Textiles on the Indian side and Yasumasa Nagasaka, State Minister of Economy, Trade and Industry, Government of Japan, from the Japanese side. Mr. Nagasaka said India was a huge market for Japanese industry and expressed confidence that going forward, there would be substantial development in the India- Japan trade relationship. Ajit B. Chavan, Secretary of Textiles Committee, told The Hindu that the agreement will give confidence to Japanese buyers about Indian suppliers. Japan imports $ 37 billion worth textile and clothing products totally and India’s share is “not as high as we want it to be.” There are a lot of private standards in Japan and these are mostly in Japanese. The MoU will make the standards available to the Indian suppliers in English. It will also help connect the suppliers here with the clients of Nissenken. Japan sources a large volume of apparels and made ups and Indian suppliers can make winter garments too for the Japanese market. The Committee has already opened a Japan Quality Desk at its office at NCR.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/textiles-committee-signs-mou-with-japanese-organisation/article33689677.ece
29 January 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||‘Student community must become part of ISRO family’||The student community across the country must become a part of the Indian Space Research Organisation’s (ISRO) family, said its Chairman K. Sivan during a virtual address from Bengaluru on Thursday. He addressed the students and faculty members of three institutions - Sri Shakthi Institute of Engineering and Technology in Coimbatore, Jeppiaar Institute of Technology in Chennai and G.H. Raisoni College of Engineering in Nagpur - as he virtually inaugurated their respective satellite ground stations. The satellites developed by the students from these three institutions will be a part of the UNITYSat, which will be launched into orbit on February 28 by ISRO’s PSLV C-51. “I am delighted to see the enthusiasm and energy shown by the youngsters to take forward the vision of space reforms in India,” Mr. Sivan said. Assuring that the Department of Space would support the students in all their major endeavours, he encouraged the college students to develop more satellites. He also invited the students to the Satish Dhawan Space Centre in Sriharikota after taking the necessary COVID-19 precautions to witness the launch of UNITYSat. SriShaktiSat, the satellite developed by the students of Sri Shakthi Institute of Engineering and Technology in Coimbatore, weighs around 460 g and worth nearly Rs. 2.5 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/student-community-must-become-part-of-isro-family/article33689573.ece
29 January 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Tasmac salesmen held for demanding bribe from bar manager||The Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC) arrested two salesmen of a Tasmac outlet near Coimbatore for demanding bribe from the manager of the bar attached to the shop to allow him to sell liquor in the black market. Lenin (43) of Podanur and Saravanan (50) of Palathurai, both salesmen of a Tasmac outlet (No: 2232) at Eachanari were held in a trap laid by the DVAC late on Wednesday. DVAC Deputy Superintendent of Police T.H. Ganesh said he received a complaint from Vinoth, manager of the bar attached to the liquor outlet, that the two salesmen demanded a bribe of Rs. 70,000 a month to allow him to sell liquor in the black after working hours. “Vinoth’s complaint said that the two salesmen threatened him of recommending to higher officials with Tasmac to suspend the licence he holds to run the bar attached to the government-run liquor store if the bribe was not paid. They also threatened him of telling liquor buyers that the bar was sub-standard to consume liquor and eat food,” said Mr. Ganesh. The DVAC team laid a trap based on the bar manager’s complaint and arrested the salesmen when they accepted the bribe from the complainant at 10 p.m. on Wednesday. According to Mr. Ganesh, this could probably be the first arrest of Tasmac salesmen in a Vigilance trap. The Vigilance sleuths also checked the day’s collection against the stock allotted to the Tasmac outlet and found an unaccounted sum of Rs. 8,600 that came from charging extra price per bottle. “We have received complaints from several customers that Rs. 5 to Rs. 10 are charged extra per bottle. It is learnt that salesmen are now shifting the extra amount earned per bottle from the shop at alternative intervals,” added Mr. Ganesh. The two salesmen were produced before a court and remanded in judicial custody till February 11. The DVAC office in Coimbatore can be reached at 0422-2449550.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tasmac-salesmen-held-for-demanding-bribe-from-bar-manager/article33689580.ece
29 January 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Stabilise yarn prices, say garment exporters||Tirupur Exporters’ Forum, formed by garment exporters in the hosiery city, have written to the textile mill associations seeking stability in cotton yarn prices. According to a press release from the Forum, hosiery yarn consumers are facing a hike in cotton yarn prices every month. This has given rise to uncertainties and the garment exporters are finding it difficult to quote prices to the apparel buyers. Garment exporters book orders three to four months before the delivery period and quote prices to the buyers based on the yarn prices at the time of finalising the order. Competition They cannot quote higher prices because of the competition in the international market and tariff advantages that the competing countries have. Nearly 80 % of the garment exporters are in the MSME sector and these units are unable to buy regularly even small quantities of yarn. Hence, several exporters are facing financial crisis. The Cotton Corporation of India (CCI), which has huge cotton stock with it, has come out with a special scheme to stabilise cotton prices. Further, warp yarn prices have declined by Rs. 15 a kg. Only the hosiery yarn prices are on the rise. Hence, the textile mills should stabilise the prices at the December 2020 levels from February. Priority The mills should give priority to garment manufacturers who buy directly from the mills, the Forum said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stabilise-yarn-prices-say-garment-exporters/article33689676.ece
29 January 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Govt. school student shines in national-level competition||A government school student from Coimbatore district on Thursday won the third prize in one of the categories of ‘Kala Utsav’ national-level cultural competition organised by Samagra Shiksha. S. Kiruthika, a Class XI student from Government Higher Secondary School in Kinathukadavu, stood third in the ‘Visual Arts – 3D (Female)’category in the country. Officials said she was one of the three government and aided students from the district who qualified for the national-level competition in December 2020. Ms. Krithika said she created art using sand for the competition and thanked her school headmaster M. Krishnamoorthy for assisting her financially in procuring the sand and other materials required for the competition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-school-student-shines-in-national-level-competition/article33689575.ece
29 January 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Girl’s death: relatives allege medical negligence||Relatives of a six-year-old girl from Neelikonampalayam, who died in a private hospital in the city on Wednesday, staged a protest in front of the mortuary of the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital (CMCH) on Thursday alleging medical negligence. They alleged that the deceased, K. Hemavarna, was admitted to a private hospital in the city on January 26 morning after her fingers were injured while closing a door on January 21. The girl died at the hospital on Wednesday. The body was shifted to CMCH mortuary where the family members and relatives staged a protest on Thursday. They initially refused to accept the body and the police held talks with them. They later accepted the body. The Singanallur police, who have registered a case under Section 174 of the CrPC in connection with the girl’s death, said that the cause of death and other factors would be known after getting the post-mortem report.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/girls-death-relatives-allege-medical-negligence/article33689582.ece
29 January 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Elderly man held for sexual assault||The All Women Police Station, Coimbatore east, on Thursday arrested a 72-year-old man from Ondipudur on charges of sexually assaulting his granddaughter, a 10-year-old girl. The police said the elderly man was the paternal grandfather of the girl. He and his wife were taking care of the girl and her sister after their parents got separated. The man was arrested based on a complaint lodged by the girl’s mother. He was produced before a court and remanded in judicial custody on Thursday.    Coimbatore United Round Table 186 organised a Corporate Cricket match recently at Kumaraguru College of Technology. A release said the 10th edition of the cricket match saw the participation of 16 corporate companies and the funds raised through this would be used to improve the infrastructure of government schools.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/elderly-man-held-for-sexual-assault/article33689579.ece
29 January 2021||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||Thousands get ‘jyothi darshan’ at Vadalur||Thousands of people had “jyothi darshan” at the Sathya Gnana Sabha (Hall of True Knowledge), founded by Ramalinga Adigalar, popularly known as Vallalar , at Vadalur duringThai Poosamfestival on Thursday. A large number of devotees from Tamil Nadu and Puducherry thronged the venue since Wednesday evening to get a glimpse of the holy lamp in the sanctum sanctorum. Serving free meals to the people from the very kitchen where Vallalar lit the ever-burning stove has been a tradition here. Tight security The Cuddalore district police had made elaborate arrangements to regulate the crowd and the vehicular traffic. Twenty-one watch towers with CCTV cameras were set up to monitor the situation. Over 1,200 police personnel, led by Superintendent of Police M. Sree Abhinav, were deployed for security. The ‘jyothi darshan’ is considered a special event by the followers of the Samarasa Sutha Sanmarga Sathya Sangam because it is on that day that all the seven screens of different hues in the sabha are lifted one after the other to reveal the holy light of the lamp kept in the sanctum sanctorum. The “jyothi darshan” was permitted by the organisers at 10 a.m., 1 p.m., 7 p.m., and 10 p.m. on Thursday and also at 5.30 a.m. on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/thousands-get-jyothi-darshan-at-vadalur/article33690002.ece
29 January 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Thousands witness Thai Poosam car festival||Thousands of devotees witnessed Thai Poosam car procession at Arulmigu Subramanya Swamy Temple at Chennimalai here on Thursday. Initially the procession was cancelled due to COVID-19 pandemic and based on the request from the devotees, the district administration gave permission for taking out the procession. On Wednesday night, Thirukalyanam was performed for Lord Murugan with Goddesses Sri Valli and Sri Deivanai at Arulmigu Kailasanathar Thirukovil. At 6 a.m. on Thursday, idols were mounted on the car decorated with flowers and festoons and devotees pulled the temple car and concluded it at South Raja Street. At 5 p.m., the car was again pulled through the street and stopped at North Raja Street Junction. Officials of the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Trust (HR and CE) said that on February 1, maha darsanam will take place at 7 p.m. during which Lord Nataraja and Subramanya Swamy will be taken out in procession through four Raja Streets. large number of devotees from different parts of the district and from nearby districts participated in the car festival.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/thousands-witness-thai-poosam-car-festival/article33689690.ece
29 January 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Over 90% cattle sold at weekly market||The weekly cattle shandy at Karungalpalayam here witnessed brisk activity as officials from the Department of Animal Husbandry from various districts purchased cattle for distribution under the free milch cows scheme on Thursday. About 850 cattle arrived at the shandy from various parts of the district and from nearby districts and officials from Ramanathapuram, Madurai and a few other southern districts along with over 50 beneficiaries arrived to purchase cows. The farmers said that while a cow was sold between Rs. 30,000 and Rs. 70,000, a buffalo was sold between Rs. 30,000 and Rs. 45,000 and a calf from Rs. 10,000 to Rs. 15,000. They said that the demand for milch cows was good as they were purchased for distribution to beneficiaries under the scheme. “Over 90% of the cattle brought to the market were sold”, they added. Farmers said that since distribution of the milch cows will be expedited ahead of Assembly elections, they expect more demand for cows in the coming weeks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-90-cattle-sold-at-weekly-market/article33689680.ece
29 January 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Medical students demand fee reduction||Stating that two years after the IRT Perundurai Medical College and Hospital was converted as Government Erode Medical College and Hospital the State government was yet to reduce the tuition fee, students staged a demonstration demanding fixing of fees on a par with the other government medical colleges. Students, numbering over 150, said that a government order was passed in 2019 converting the college as a government college. However, students continue to pay Rs. 3.85 lakh as annual fee instead of Rs. 13,160 as paid by students in other government medical colleges. However, despite representations, fees were yet to be reduced and they were forced to borrow money for paying the fees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/medical-students-demand-fee-reduction/article33689687.ece
29 January 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Jewellery recovered, one held||An accused, involved in two burglary cases, was arrested and the police recovered 63 sovereigns gold jewellery from him here. Jewellery weighing 47 and 16 sovereigns were stolen from two houses on January 16 and 23 and teams were formed to nab the accused. On January 27, when the police were conducting vehicle check at Sampath Nagar, they found a man attempting to turn his two-wheeler after seeing them. Police intercepted him, who was identified as R. Suresh alias Suresh Kumar alias Viji alias Vignesh (41) of North Gandhi Village, Pasupathipalayam in Karur. He confessed to have committed the thefts at the two houses. Inquiries revealed that five burglary cases were pending against him at Karur and Salem and four in Erode. Superintendent of Police P. Thangadurai said that footage from the CCTV cameras helped the police to identify the accused and asked commercial establishments and households to install surveillance cameras.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/jewellery-recovered-one-held/article33689678.ece
29 January 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Two workers asphyxiated||Two workers died of asphyxiation, while working inside a water sump under renovation here on Thursday. Another worker survived. The accident occurred in an old house at Anand Nagar, court campus, where renovation of the house was under way. The victims Venkatachalapathy (40), Murugan (55), and Periyasamy (52) were working inside the sump that was being extended and held by poles inside. The men were found unconscious by other workers, before they were lifted up. They were rushed to Krishnagiri government hospital, where Murugan and Periyasamy were declared dead. Venkatachalapathy was under treatment. The cause of deaths is suspected to be asphyxiation caused by the closed underground enclosure.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-workers-asphyxiated/article33689691.ece
29 January 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||PMK to hold protests today||The Pattali Makkal Katchi and its parent body Vanniyar Sangam will lead protests for exclusive reservation for Vanniyars in State government jobs and higher education in front of 38 Collectorates in the State on Friday. The protests will be a culmination of graded protests that began in December in pursuance of the quota within quota demand by the PMK for Vanniyars, its president G.K. Mani told journalists here on Thursday. ‘Social justice’ According to him, Vanniyars from all political hues would rally to the Collectorate for “social justice” with their respective party flags with the sole aim of quota demand for Vanniyars. The quota demand is not to undercut the reservation for OBCs, SCs or STs or to undercut the OCs. It is to demand apportioning of a percentage as quota for Vanniyars within the MBC quota of 20%, the Pattali Makkal Katchi president said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pmk-vanniyar-sangam-to-hold-protests-today/article33689566.ece
29 January 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Hundreds witness float festival||Hundreds of devotees thronged Mariamman Teppakulam here on Thursday to witness the float festival. The 12-day festival reached its crescendo on Thursday as the beautifully decorated temple float wafted through a brimming tank on Thai Poosam, the birth anniversary of king Thirumalai Nayak. The temple tank was decorated with colourful lamps. An official from the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR and CE) department said that the tank had 15 feet of water. “The availability of a good level of water in the tank enabled the residents to have a good view of the float,” he said. The float was taken around the tank twice in the morning and once in the evening. As per the convention, the youth from the Devendrakula Vellalar community from the nearby Anuppanadi drew the float. Madurai city police had made traffic diversions and had posted additional personnel to ensure free flow of traffic in and around Mariamman Teppakulam. To ensure the safety of devotees, a rope was tied around the tank, beyond which they could witness the float festival.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hundreds-witness-float-festival/article33689661.ece
29 January 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||High Court allows plea of police aspirant||Allowing a petition filed by a police aspirant, Madurai Bench of Madras High Court asked the State to declare him selected to the post of Grade II police constable and issue appointment order. The State had not considered him for the post as he had suppressed his involvement in a criminal case. The court was hearing the petition filed by M. Arun Kumar of Ramanathapuram. He had cleared the written, physical efficiency and medical tests in 2017 for the post of police constable. However, during verification it was found that a criminal case was registered against him under the Tamil Nadu Gaming Act. But the case was closed for non-filing of the final report. The petitioner’s candidature was rejected on the ground that he had failed to declare that he had been involved in a criminal case. The petitioner had earlier moved the court challenging the rejection in 2017 and the court had directed the authorities to consider the petitioner for appointment. However, as he was not considered, he again filed a fresh petition. Relying on the parameters laid down by the Supreme Court in the Avtar Singh case, Justice M.S. Ramesh observed that the offence which the petitioner was alleged to have committed was punishable with imprisonment not exceeding three months or fine not exceeding Rs. 100 and such an offence can be termed as petty offence. The criminal case itself could be termed trivial for the reason that apart from naming the petitioner in the case as an accused, the investigation was not completed and the case itself was closed for non-filing of the final report, the judge said. Mere implication in a criminal case for a petty offence would not render him unfit for the post. Since he had cleared all tests, he should not be deprived of the selection, the judge said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/high-court-allows-plea-of-police-aspirant/article33689891.ece
29 January 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Plea for appointment on compassionate grounds dismissed||Dismissing a petition seeking appointment on compassionate grounds, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court observed that if compassionate appointment was treated as one more source of recruitment then it would be violative of Article 16 (Equality of opportunity in matters of public employment) of the Constitution. The court was hearing the petition filed in 2017 by D. Sivakumar of Tiruchi. The father of the petitioner died in 2001 while in service in Tangedco. The petitioner was aged 10 at the time. He made an application seeking appointment on compassionate grounds after he attained majority. However, the request was turned down. He challenged the rejection. Relying on government orders, Justice M. Dhandapani observed that before August 23, 2005, even a person who had not attained the age of 18 was entitled to make an application to seek appointment on compassionate grounds. However, it was clarified that after the said date only those who had completed 18 years could make the application. Though in the present case the petitioner submitted the application in 2009 after he attained majority in 2008, the scheme provided that the application had to be submitted by legal heirs within three years of the death of the employee. Therefore, in the present case, the application could not be entertained. The purpose of providing employment on compassionate grounds was to mitigate the hardship faced by the family due to the death of an employee. Therefore, it had to be provided immediately to ensure that the family managed the crisis. The dependent of the deceased employee could not be permitted to convert a tragedy into a bonanza, the judge said. It was already settled by various decisions of the Supreme Court that appointment on compassionate grounds was a concession given by an employer to help the family of the deceased employee to get over the immediate financial crisis, the court said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plea-for-appointment-dismissed/article33689656.ece
29 January 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||HC dismisses plea seeking appointment on compassionate grounds||Dismissing a petition seeking appointment on compassionate grounds, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court observed that if the compassionate appointment was treated as one more source of recruitment, then it will be violative of the Article 16 (Equality of opportunity in matters of public employment) of the Constitution. The court was hearing a petition filed in 2017 by D. Sivakumar of Tiruchi. The father of the petitioner died in 2001 while he was in service in Tangedco. The petitioner was aged 10 at the time. He made an application seeking appointment on compassionate grounds after he became a major. However, the request was turned down. He challenged the rejection. Relying on government orders, Justice M. Dhandapani observed that before August 23, 2005, even a person who had not attained the age of 18 was entitled to make an application to seek appointment under compassionate grounds. However, it was clarified that after the said date only those who had completed 18 years could make the application. In the present case, the petitioner submitted the application in 2009 after he became a major in 2008. The scheme provides that the application has to be submitted by legal heirs within three years from the date of death of the employee. Therefore, in the present case, the application was made beyond the limitation period and the petition could not be entertained. Aim is to help family The purpose of providing employment on compassionate basis is to mitigate the hardship of the family due to the death of the employee. Therefore, it has to be provided immediately to ensure that the family tides over the sudden crisis. The dependent of the deceased employee cannot be permitted to convert a tragedy into a bonanza, the judge said. It is already settled by various decisions of the Supreme Court that appointment on compassionate basis is a concession given by an employer to help the family of the deceased who had died in harness to get over the immediate financial crisis, the court said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-dismisses-petition-seeking-appointment-on-compassionate-grounds/article33689520.ece
29 January 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Vacancies at RTOs cause delay in getting certificates||Vacant posts of Regional Transport Officer and Motor Vehicle Inspectors at the Regional Transport Offices (RTOs) in Madurai district are overburdening the officials and also delaying the services provided to the public. Madurai has three RTOS – North, South and Central. The RTO post is lying vacant in Madurai Central RTO. Currently, the North RTO has taken the additional charge of the Central RTO. At the North RTO, which should have five Motor Vehicle Inspectors, there is only one official, who has been deputed on a temporary basis. There is only one Motor Vehicle Inspector at the South RTO, which should have four officials in the rank. Similarly, the Central RTO has only one of three Motor Vehicle Inspector posts filled on a temporary basis by an Enforcement Inspector. There are also vacancies at the Motor Vehicle Inspector offices in Melur, Tirumangalam, Vadipatti and Usilampatti. These vacancies have restricted the number of licences that could be issued at the RTOs every day, said an official source. A motor vehicle inspector approves learner’s licence, permanent driver’s licence, new registration for vehicles and renewal of registration. Long waiting list “Since each motor vehicle inspector can issue only a limited number of licences every day, the number of people on the waiting list is increasing,” said the source. Dhandapani, who runs Tulasi Driving school, said that getting a registration certificate (RC) takes nearly a month, causing much inconvenience to the public. In the normal course, it took only a week. There is also delay in getting Fitness Certificate due to vacant posts of motor vehicle inspectors, he said. Only if these vacancies are filled will the inspectors be able to conduct joint inspection with the police officials to identify erring vehicle users, said the RTO source. A. Ravichandran, Joint Transport Commissioner, said candidates were selected for the post of motor vehicle inspector through Tamil Nadu Public Service Commission. “However, a case regarding their appointment is there in the Supreme Court. Once the case is cleared, the vacancies will be filled. The issue will be solved in a few weeks’ time,” he added.  The limiting factor  There are vacancies in Madurai North, South and Central RTOs  Posts are also lying vacant in Melur, Tirumangalam, Vadipatti and Usilampatti offices||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vacancies-at-rtos-cause-delay-in-getting-certificates/article33689675.ece
29 January 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Parcel loading facility for more stations||Southern Railway has provided additional stoppage timing at few stations in the southern districts with immediate effect to facilitate loading of parcels in express trains. As per the extant instructions of the Railways, parcel loading is permitted by express trains at stations that have five minutes stoppage time to facilitate loading without losing punctuality, for the convenience of small-scale traders. Consequently, Train No. 02662 Sengottai - Chennai Egmore Podhigai special and Train No. 06235 Tuticorin - Mysore special are provided with five minutes stoppage at Virudhunagar with immediate effect. Similarly five-minute stoppage has been provided for Train No. 06182 Sengottai - Chennai Egmore Silambu special at Rajapalayam; for Train No. 02694 Tuticorin - Chennai Egmore Pearl City special at Sattur; for Train No. 06724 Quilon - Chennai Egmore Anantapuri special at Kovilpatti; and for Train No. 02652 Palghat - Chennai Central special at Oddanchatram, a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/more-stations-to-have-parcel-loading-facility/article33689659.ece
29 January 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Property row leads to woman’s murder||A 55-year-old woman, M. Kaathun Beevi of Perungudi, was beaten to death by her relatives over a property dispute. Police said the woman had put up a thatched roof shed on a piece of land, belonging to her father, adjacent to her house. The woman and her husband had been living there for the past 15 days. Her relatives, who already had a dispute with her over the land, had picked up a quarrel. Later, her brothers K. Umar Farook, Ibrahimsha and Mehaboob Batcha assaulted her on Tuesday afternoon. After she was stabbed with a sharp weapon, the woman fell down and collapsed. She was rushed to Government Rajaji Hospital where she succumbed to injuries the next day. The Perungudi police have booked all the brothers, their mother, Raja Beevi, for murder.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/property-row-leads-to-murder/article33689662.ece
29 January 2021||Mayiladuthurai,TAMIL NADU||All accused in Sirkazhi murder for gain case are first-time offenders||All the four accused in the double murder and burglary at the house of a jeweller in Sirkazhi town on Wednesday are first-time offenders, police enquiry has indicated. Hailing from Rajasthan, Manipal Singh, Ramesh and Karunaram were self-employed in Kumbakonam and Manish in Jayankondam. Manish, police had learnt, was known to jeweller Dhanaraj Chowdhary through a common contact in Jayankondam, who was a regular customer. Manish used to accompany Sankarram who runs a grocery shop in Jayankondam when the latter used to visit the jeweller’s house for purchasing ornaments. There was no record of crime against any of the accused, Superintendent of Police N. Shreenatha said. After an incident of theft at his shop a few years ago, the jeweller used to bring the entire stock to his home every day, and take it back the next day. The jeweller also used to sell the ornaments at his home. The crime was apparently committed to mobilise resources for Ramesh’s marriage, preliminary interrogation has indicated. On Wednesday, all the four had come in a car from Kumbakonam. While, Karunaram was waiting outside, the other three had gone inside the house. But, since Karunaram had panicked and left the spot, the trio tried to escape in the jeweller's car. Fearing presence of a tracking device, the trio abandoned the car on the Bypass Road and headed towards Erukkur village with 12 kg jewellery and Rs. 6.7 lakh in cash. The buried booty was recovered by the police, after cornering the accused who were in hiding in the village. The police seized swords, two guns (an air gun and a toy gun), and a cutter from their possession. The total worth of the loot was Rs. 4.62 crore, according to an official press release. After murdering the jeweller's wife and son by slashing their throats and hacking them, the assailants had caused grievous injury to him and his daugher-in-law. They had bound the legs and hands of the jeweller with metal wires and went about looting the jewellery and cash. Two cases have been registered. The first case pertained to the murder and burglary incident in Sirkazhi police station under IPC Sections 454 (house-breaking to commit offence), 392 (robbery), 307 (attempt to murder), 302 (murder), and and 25 (1)(a) Arms Act, and the other under IPC sections 353 (assaulting public servant), 307 and 25 (1)(a) Arms Act. The second case was registered at Anaikaranchathiram police station based on a complaint lodged by Porayar Inspector Selvam who shot dead Manipal Singh in self-defence at Erukkur during the course of arrest after the accused had caused cut injuries on police personnel with a sword.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/all-accused-in-sirkazhi-murder-for-gain-case-are-first-time-offenders/article33689652.ece
29 January 2021||MAYILADUTHURAI,TAMIL NADU||Magisterial inquiry into encounter on||Chief Judicial Magistrate, Nagapattinam, R. Jegadeesan on Thursday visited the spot in Erukkur village where Manipal Singh, one of the accused in the murder-for-gain case in Sirkazhi town, was shot dead on Wednesday by police personnel after he allegedly attempted to attack them. The CJM, accompanied by Mayiladuthurai Judicial Magistrate Amirtham, made an assessment of the circumstances of death, the sequence of incidents leading to death and the cause of death. The judicial officers studied if there was any foul play in the death and also the adequacy of medical treatment. They also visited the Sirkazhi Government Hospital, where the post-mortem examination was conducted, to verify the inquest report, the inquiry/investigation report of the police and other records. The police also produced the two other accused with fractured arms, purportedly due to a “fall in the bathroom”, before the Judicial Magistrate, and had them remanded in judicial custody. They were sent to the Nagapattinam district jail. Describing the circumstances under which Singh died, the police said during the inquiry, he kept swinging a sword wildly, causing injuries to a head constable. Sensing danger, inspector Selvam had shot Singh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/magisterial-inquiry-into-encounter-on/article33689527.ece
29 January 2021||Mayiladuthurai,TAMIL NADU||Diaper unit to be established in Mayiladuthurai||The task of establishing a diaper unit at Anbagam campus in Mayiladuthurai town was initiated on Wednesday by the District Collector R. Lalitha. The first unit in the region for manufacture of diapers envisages improving the hygiene of mothers and babies belonging to economically backward sections. A non-governmental organisation serving 300 differently abled children and orphans, the Kathika Public Educational and Charitable Trust(which started as Anbagam special school in 1981 in Mayiladuthurai), has been spending Rs. 60,000 for purchase of diapers and sanitary napkins every month. The diaper unit will meet the entire internal requirements. The machinery for the unit has been designed and fabricated by Hi-Tech, Tiruchi, a pioneer in fabrication and design with a track record of 20 years. Raja of Hi-Tech said the new unit will have a capacity to produce 1,000 pieces of diapers of varying sizes and an equal number of napkins every day. The project estimated to cost about Rs. 8 lakh will be commissioned in about two months, V. Ganapathy Advisor Exnora and facilitator of the project, said. The funds will be provided by philanthropists, and All India ONGC OBC and MOBC employees welfare association, Cauvery Asset, Karaikal. At a function on Wednesday, the Collector handed over a cheque for Rs. 2.5 lakh to the Anbagam functionaries. Group General Manager / Asset Manager, Cauvery Asset, Karaikal, Anurag, and C. Sethupathi, president of ONGC OBC and MOBC Employees Welfare Association, and Anbagan Director Gnanasambandam, also spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/diaper-unit-to-be-established-in-mayiladuthurai/article33689630.ece
29 January 2021||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Officials inspect college for setting up counting centre||District Collector K. Megraj along with senior officials inspected the premises of a private college here for setting up counting centre for the Assembly elections in the district. Mr. Megraj along with Superintendent of Police S. Sakthi Ganesan inspected the premises of Vivekananda College of Engineering for Women at Tiruchengode for setting up various facilities required for conducting counting for the elections. There are six Assembly constituencies in the district, Namakkal, Rasipuram, Kumarapalayam, Thiruchengode, Sendhamangalam and Paramathi Vellur. According to officials, the centre would be used for storing voting machines, control units and VVPAT machines in strong rooms, for stocking other election essentials and also for counting. The officials inspected the premises and checked for facilities like setting up of strong rooms for storing voting units of six constituencies, arranging counting centres, separate paths for movement of election staff for each constituency, paths for counting agents of political parties, security arrangements and facilities for counting postal votes. According to the recently released electoral roll for the district, there are 14,41,201 voters in the district including 70,1104 men, 739937 women and 160 transpersons. Officials said, there are 1,623 polling booths in the district. A total of 39,357 voters were added to the list and 24,039 voters were removed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/officials-inspect-college-for-setting-up-counting-centre/article33689693.ece
29 January 2021||PALANI,TAMIL NADU||Devotees throng Palani||Hundreds of local people and devotees from nearby districts thronged the temple town to take part in the car festival, the highlight of week-long Thai Poosam celebrations, here on Thursday. The town, which used to witness lakhs of devotees during Thai Poosam celebrations, had less turnout this year in view of some regulations imposed in the wake of COVID-19 pandemic. The temple car, with the presiding deities of Valli Deivanai and Muthukumara Swami, was pulled majestically after performing special pujas and aradhanas. Devotees were permitted to draw the car around four car streets. The temple elephant, Kasturi, which was decorated, too took part in the procession. Earlier, Forests Minister Dindigul C Srinivasan, Palani MLA I P Senthil Kumar, Collector M Vijayalakshmi, and Joint Commissioner (Sri Dhandayuthapani Swami Temple) Kranti Kumar Pati participated in the car festival. The Thai Poosam celebrations began with holy flag hoisting on January 22. The float festival is scheduled to be held on January 31 with which the celebrations would conclude. Tiruchendur Devotees from various parts of the State offered special prayers at Lord Subramaniya Swami Temple here on Thursday on the occasion of ‘Thai poosam.’ Following ‘viswaroopa deepaaraadhanai’ performed at 3.30 a.m., the ‘udhayamarthanda deepaaraadhanai’ was conducted at 6 a.m. The ‘theerthavaari’ for ‘astradevar’ was conducted at 8.45 a.m. After usual rituals, prayers normally conducted for ‘Alaivai Kandaperuman’ during this special occasion were held inside the temple this year instead of conducting it at ‘Thai poosa mandapam’ due to COVID-19-related curbs. Several lakhs of devotees, who had come to the shrine on padayatra with pierced spears, ‘kaavadi’ and milk pot, were allowed to stay on the temple premises from Wednesday night. After taking a holy dip in the sea in the early hours, devotees offered prayers after standing in long queues. The police, led by Deputy Inspector General of Police, Tirunelveli Range (In-Charge) Rajendran, Superintendent of Police S. Jayakumar and Additional Superintendent of Police, Tiruchendur, Harsh Singh, made elaborate security arrangements for the celebrations. In Sri Kazhugaasala Murthy Temple at Kazhugumalai near Kovilpatti, a few thousand devotees participated in the ‘Thai poosam’ celebrations. After the flag hoisting on January 19, special ‘abhishekam’, ‘alangaaram’ and palanquin processions were conducted everyday. On the tenth day, the car festival was conducted on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/devotees-throng-palani/article33689671.ece
29 January 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Suspended Congress leaders from Puducherry join BJP||Suspended Congress leaders A. Namassivayam and E.Theeppainthan on Thursday joined Bharatiya Janata Party at the party headquarters in New Delhi. Mr. Namassivayam, Mr. Theeppainthan and a few other Congress functionaries joined the BJP in the presence of party national general secretary Arun Singh and UT in-charge Nirmal Kumar Surana. The newly inducted leaders later called on Union Home Minister Amit Shah and party national president J. P. Nadda The Congress party had suspended Mr. Namassivayam on Monday following his decision to quit the Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy-led Cabinet and resign the MLA post. Mr Theeppainthan was also suspended for resigning the MLA post along with the former Minister. Mr. Namassivayam started his career as a youth leader in Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam and then moved to Marumalarchi Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam in 1996. He contested the Assembly polls on MDMK ticket from Ozhuvarkarai but lost the polls. Ahead of the 2001 Assembly polls, he contested from the same constituency on TMC ticket and won the seat. He became a Minister in the coalition Ministry led by N Rangasamy ( then in Congress) He joined the Congress in 2006 Assembly elections, and till his resignation as legislator represented Villianur constituency. In 2015, he was appointed Puducherry Congress Committee president.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/suspended-congress-leaders-from-puducherry-join-bjp/article33689561.ece
29 January 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Hefty fines from now for road rule violations in Puducherry||Brace yourself to shell out hefty fines for road rule violations as Puducherry has joined the list of States/Union Territories to amend provisions of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988, in line with changes in the Central Act that took effect in 2019. The changes have substantially hiked the penalty for various offences as well as authorised a larger pool of officers to slap on-the-spot fines. Following the approval of the Lt. Governor, the Transport Department on Thursday notified the new provisions that allow officers of the Police, Transport and Revenue Departments to impose spot fines for “compoundable offences” that do not require adjudication of the courts. “The basic principle behind these amendments is to enhance public safety and cut down on traffic accidents,” Transport Secretary Ashok Kumar told a press conference. The G.O. lists 73 types of compoundable offences that attract spot fines. The fine amounts have also been hiked in the range of 100% to 10-fold increase over existing rates. The operative sections and sub-sections under which the offences will be charged are from 177 to 198. The fine for many compoundable offences has gone up from the existing penalty of Rs. 100 to Rs. 1,000, such as riding without a helmet, which will now attract a spot fine of Rs. 1,000 under Section 194 D and disqualification from holding licence for three months for first offence with a similar penalty for the second/subsequent offences, triple riding, driving dangerously/use of handheld communication devices and not wearing seat belts in car. The fine for driving without licence has been hiked from Rs. 500 to Rs. 5,000 while racing is penalised with a fine of Rs. 5,000 first time and Rs. 10,000 for subsequent offences. Failure to allow free passage to emergency vehicles (Fire/Ambulances) attract a fine of Rs. 10,000 for first and subsequent offences. Excess fare by auto/taxi/stage carriers remit a fine of Rs. 200 for first offence and Rs. 500 for second and subsequent offences. The steepest penalty is Rs. 1 lakh for trading of any automobile part notified as a critical safety component. Violators who do not pay the fines will have their vehicles and documents confiscated. “The crux of the amendments is to classify offences as compoundable that can be tackled with spot penalties and non-compoundable offences, such as drunk driving or signal jumping, that would be referred to a court,” said A. S. Sivakumar, Transport Commissioner. “An estimated 80% of the average of 100 accident deaths in Puducherry every year are occurring because of riders not wearing helmets. We hope the revised fines would serve as a deterrent,” said Anand Mohan, ADGP. Rahul Alwal, SP, added that at least 60% of the fatal accidents were caused by overspeeding. The Police Department has conducted a spatial-temporal study that mapped about 62 accident hotspots in Puducherry. The Transport Commissioner said it was proposed to migrate the penal process to an online platform with the NIC software soon. Personnel of the three enforcement departments have been updated on the amendments and trained. The number of e-challan devices would also be increased from the 16 available now. “We are working towards enabling e-payment options for fine remittance shortly as it requires back-end linking with banks,” Mr. Sivakumar said. The public would be sensitised on these changes during the ongoing Road Safety Month celebrations, officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hefty-fines-from-now-for-road-rule-violations-in-puducherry/article33690008.ece
29 January 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Karaikal reports one COVID-19 death||One more COVID-19 death was reported from Karaikal on Thursday, which took the toll in the Union Territory to 647 while 39 new cases were added to the overall tally. A 74-year-old male patient died at the Karaikal GH of severe COVID-19 pneumonia and ARDS. He had co-morbidities of diabetes and severe hypertension. The toll in Karaikal has risen to 65 while it stands at 528 in Puducherry, 45 in Yanam and nine in Mahe. The new cases, which were confirmed from 2,772 tests, were 21 in Puducherry, followed by Mahe (11) and Karaikal (five). Yanam did not report new infections. With 29 patients discharged after recovery in the last 24 hours, the number of active cases in the Union Territory stood at 291. Of this, 100 were in hospitals and 191 in home isolation. The case tally aggregated to 38,973 while 38,035 patients have recovered so far. The test positivity rate was 1.4%, case fatality rate 1.66% and recovery rate 97.59%. Of an estimated 5.67 lakh samples tested to date by the Health Department, about 5.24 lakh samples returned negative. Cuddalore district reported three fresh cases of COVID-19 on Thursday, taking the district’s tally to 24,910. While 24,593 persons have been discharged, the tally of active cases stands at 16. In Villupuram district, three persons tested positive, taking the total number of positive cases to 15,175. No positive case was reported in Kallakurichi district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/karaikal-reports-one-covid-19-death/article33690006.ece
29 January 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Thengaithittu harbour: dredging in two weeks||The dredging of the Thengaithittu harbour will commence in two weeks, District Collector-cum-Fisheries Secretary Purva Garg said on Thursday. Addressing a press conference at the District Collectorate, Ms. Garg said implementation of the project was in the final stages. “Dredging will start in two weeks,” she said. Briefing on the programmes for the fisheries sector, Ms. Garg said the department had a helpline (0413-2227289) set up at the Dumas Street office. The helpline could be utilised by fishermen to seek clarifications on schemes and benefits. A separate toll-free helpline would be launched soon for distress assistance, she said. Under a sub-component plan of the Centrally sponsored Blue Revolution, assistance would be provided for mechanised boat owners to purchase safety kits consisting of BSNL Skylo, transponders, life jackets and life buoys. An amount of Rs. 48 lakh had been set aside to implement the scheme, the Secretary said. To a question on frequent complaints of repair of ice plants at the fishing harbour, she said the issue was being looked into. When her attention was drawn to the concerns of the public about the closure of Bharathi Park due to restrictions imposed near Raj Nivas, the Collector said the decision would be revisited based on a law and order situation assessment made by the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dredging-at-thengaithittu-harbour-to-begin-in-2-weeks/article33690005.ece
29 January 2021||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||Dalit boy alleges harassment||Police attached to the Meemisal station in Pudukottai have booked a case against four caste Hindus, based on a complaint from an 18-year-old boy from a Scheduled Caste, alleging harassment on caste grounds. The police booked the accused under Sections 342 (wrongful confinement), 365 (kidnapping), 294 (b) (uttering obscene words), 323 (causing hurt) and 506 (II), read with 3 (1) (a) (putting any inedible or obnoxious substance into the mouth of SC/ST member), and sections of the SC/ST Act. The complainant said he was abducted by the four residents of Gunathiranpatti, near Amaradakki, following a quarrel and was attacked. He said that when he asked for water, one of them urinated on him. According to him, he managed to escape and got himself admitted to the Government Hospital in Aranthangi for treatment. The police are conducting further investigations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dalit-teen-alleges-harassment/article33689533.ece
29 January 2021||R. Sujatha,TAMIL NADU||Ornamental fish breeding in GoM region can provide livelihood, say scientists||Despite COVID-19 pandemic, some coastal communities in Maharashtra have managed to make a livelihood by rearing wild ornamental fish. Scientists involved in the effort say a similar measure could help coastal communities from Thoothukudi to Rameswaram. At Thane and Sindhudurg in Maharashtra, scientists from the National Bureau of Fish Genetic Resources of the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (NBFGR-ICAR) taught clusters of 8-10 persons to rear clown fish. Already the NBFGR-ICAR had been involved in such training in the Lakshadweep. In Maharashtra, the local community was trained under Prime Minister Matsya Sampada Yojana to earn a livelihood. Kuldeep Lal, Director, ICAR, NBFGR, Lucknow, who is overseeing the project, said the focus was on indigenous species with ornamental value. The communities were provided the expertise and facility to rear high-value species in their backyard. “We recycle seawater. In Thane creek, we made a master collection of clown fish species. India has 16 species, of which we are rearing 10. Among the, two more commercially important species were developed for seed production. Even during COVID-19 in the first trial, Each fish was sold for Rs. 280 in Thane,” he adds. Such facilities can be replicated in the Gulf of Mannar (GoM) region, he said. “The GoM has native clown fish variety and there are people in areas such as Pichavaram where mangrove dwellers can have additional income. The State government can develop a programme to train clusters of 8-10 people to rear the fish. It will be a source of income to the local communities, especially when there is no catch for days,” he said. The programme could be developed as a self-help group model where women can rear in the backyard and earn additional income, he said. T.T. Ajith Kumar, Principal Scientist at the NBFGR, said in such master facilities the communities would be provided hands-on training “so that they do not go to sea to collect wild species”. “The Forest department is trying to stop illegal collection but in places like Palk Bay region it continues unabated. The State should come forward to set up a marine ornamental village. We have standardised the low-cost technology to breed marine ornamental fish. We breed and rear the fish for a month and later supply the month-old reared babies. They will rear them for two more months after which it is sold the market,” he explained. The community has to invest just an hour in the morning and evening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ornamental-fish-breeding-in-gom-region-can-provide-livelihood/article33689554.ece
29 January 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Railway track doubling works between Omalur and Mettur dam nearing completion||The track doubling works between Omalur and Mettur dam is nearing completion and are expected to be completed by February-end. The doubling of rail tracks has been progressing for the past few years. According the officials, the works were sanctioned during 2011-2012 and 29 km of rail tracks is being doubled along with electrification works. A. Gautam Srinivas, Divisional Railway Manager, said that in 2011-12, the estimated cost of the project was Rs. 232 crore. He added that 16.5-km works were completed and works for remaining 13-km stretch was progressing at a steady pace. Mr.Srinivas added that the electrification in Salem-Virudhachalam line is also progressing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/railway-track-doubling-works-between-omalur-and-mettur-dam-nearing-completion/article33689695.ece
29 January 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Discharge from Mettur stopped||The discharge from Mettur dam to delta region for irrigation was stopped from Thursday evening. According to the Public Works Department officials, the water level in the dam on Thursday was 105.96 ft against a total scale of 120 ft. The stored capacity of water at the dam was 72,780 mcft and the dam received inflow of 1,069 cusecs of water. The discharge from the dam through Cauvery river was 1,000 cusecs on Thursday morning and it was stopped by 6 p.m. The discharge through Mettur dam canal was stopped earlier. The shutters of the dam was raised by Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on the customary date of June 12 for irrigation in delta region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/discharge-from-mettur-stopped/article33689694.ece
29 January 2021||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Streamline paddy procurement, say farmers||Delta farmers have suggested certain measures to the Tamil Nadu Civil Supplies Corporation to ensure that their produce alone be procured at the direct purchase centres (DPCs) opened in the delta districts during this samba/thaladi season. In their appeal, they have pointed out that in the absence of a stringent mechanism, farmers from other districts and traders dispose their stock at the DPCs opened in Thanjavur, Nagapattinam, Tiruvarur and Mayiladuthurai districts that have been set up exclusively to purchase the paddy harvested by Delta farmers. P. Kalyanam of Arupathi, general secretary, Federation of Farmers Associations of Delta Districts (FFADD), has called upon the District Administrations to post special teams to monitor the movement of paddy through check-posts in the district borders during the procurement period. Further, issuance of identity cards containing personal details and their landholdings would help avoid ‘middlemen’ lining up as farmers at the DPCs. Pleading the Corporation to desist from effecting a cut in procurement price citing high moisture content level, Mr. Kalyanam pointed out that already the governments have announced that paddy with 20 per cent moisture could be measured at the DPCs. Providing the tractor-drawn portable paddy drier services at the DPCs through the Agriculture Engineering Department or individual farmers could also be considered, he added. In his memorandum, Sundara Vimalanathan, secretary, Thanjavur District Cauvery Farmers Protection Association has also urged the government to revive the mobile procurement exercise with a minimum of 100 gunny bags of paddy as a prime condition to avail this service by the farmers. He insisted that paddy with moisture content of over 17 per cent should be procured citing the relaxation announced by governments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/streamline-paddy-procurement-say-farmers/article33689640.ece
29 January 2021||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Collector hops onto a motorcycle to inspect crop damage||Collector M. Govinda Rao on Thursday undertook a three-kilometre motorcycle ride to reach an agriculture field at Cholapuram West hamlet in Orathanadu taluk to inspect crop damage reported by a farmer. According to official sources, the Collector who was inspecting the assessment of crop loss due to the inclement weather conditions during last month visited the Agriculture Extension Centre at Orathanadu where uploading of crop loss claims was being carried out. After inspecting the process, he decided to visit the field of Sathyamurthy of Cholapuram West village as the latter had claimed crop loss compensation. Since, the affected field was located at a distance of three kilometres from the main road, Govinda Rao hopped on to a motorcycle of a Revenue staff and drove to the field through a narrow carriageway passing through agriculture fields. At the site, he verified the details of claim submitted by Sathyamurthy and also inspected the field of Chellamuthu of the same village who had also claimed crop loss compensation, sources added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/collector-hops-onto-a-motorcycle-to-inspect-crop-damage/article33689637.ece
29 January 2021||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Celestial wedding at Kalyanapuram temple to be webcast||The Kalyanapuram Sri Srinivasa Perumal Thirukalyana Festival Committee is planning to webcast the 80th annual ‘Thirukalyanam’ to be held at Kalyanapuram in February. The move to air the annual festival as a live telecast was considered by the committee in view of the Standard Operating Procedures imposed by the governments to check the spread of the novel coronavirus, according to official sources. The annual festival will commence on February 10 evening with `januvasam’ of the presiding deity of Sri Srinivasa Perumal Temple, Kalayanapuram, located near Thiruvaiyaru followed by other events related to the celestial wedding to be solemnised at the temple from 10 a.m. on February 11. For the next three days, the deities would be taken in a procession in the village followed by ‘Aupasana homam’ at the temple both in the morning and evening. The festival would culminate on February 15 with the conduct of ‘Seshsa homam’ and ‘Paaligai’ in the morning and a grand procession of the deities mounted in ‘Pushpaka Vimanam’ on that night.  As usual, the ‘laksharchana’ of the deity preceding the annual ‘Thirukalyanam’ would be held on February 9, sources added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/celestial-wedding-at-kalyanapuram-temple-to-be-webcast/article33689633.ece
29 January 2021||TIRUCHENDUR,TAMIL NADU||Devotees participate in ‘Thaipoosam’ celebrations||Devotees from various parts of the State offered special prayers at Lord Subramaniya Swami Temple here on Thursday on the occasion of ‘Thai poosam.’ Following ‘viswaroopa deepaaraadhanai’ performed at 3.30 a.m., the ‘udhayamarthanda deepaaraadhanai’ was conducted at 6 a.m. The ‘theerthavaari’ for ‘astradevar’ was conducted at 8.45 a.m. After usual rituals, prayers normally conducted for ‘Alaivai Kandaperuman’ during this special occasion were held inside the temple this year instead of conducting it at ‘Thai poosa mandapam’ due to COVID-19-related curbs. Several lakhs of devotees, who had come to the shrine on padayatra with pierced spears, ‘kaavadi’ and milk pot, were allowed to stay on the temple premises from Wednesday night. After taking a holy dip in the sea in the early hours, devotees offered prayers after standing in long queues. The police, led by Deputy Inspector General of Police, Tirunelveli Range (In-Charge) Rajendran, Superintendent of Police S. Jayakumar and Additional Superintendent of Police, Tiruchendur, Harsh Singh, made elaborate security arrangements for the celebrations. In Sri Kazhugaasala Murthy Temple at Kazhugumalai near Kovilpatti, a few thousand devotees participated in the ‘Thai poosam’ celebrations. After the flag hoisting on January 19, special ‘abhishekam’, ‘alangaaram’ and palanquin processions were conducted everyday. On the tenth day, the car festival was conducted on Thursday. Palani Hundreds of local people and devotees from nearby districts thronged the temple town to take part in the car festival, the highlight of week-long Thai Poosam celebrations, here on Thursday. The town, which used to witness lakhs of devotees during Thai Poosam celebrations, had less turnout this year in view of some regulations imposed in the wake of COVID-19 pandemic. The temple car, with the presiding deities of Valli Deivanai and Muthukumara Swami, was pulled majestically after performing special pujas and aradhanas. Devotees were permitted to draw the car around four car streets. The temple elephant, Kasturi, which was decorated, too took part in the procession. Earlier, Forests Minister Dindigul C Srinivasan, Palani MLA I P Senthil Kumar, Collector M Vijayalakshmi, and Joint Commissioner (Sri Dhandayuthapani Swami Temple) Kranti Kumar Pati participated in the car festival. The Thai Poosam celebrations began with holy flag hoisting on January 22. The float festival is scheduled to be held on January 31 with which the celebrations would conclude.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/devotees-participate-in-thaipoosam-celebrations/article33690050.ece
29 January 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Harvesting machines in short supply||Acute shortage of harvesting machines has hit paddy harvest in different parts of Tiruchi and Karur districts. Harvest would normally peak in the second week of January. But, due to the extended monsoon that continued up to January 19, the farmers could not start harvest on time. They were forced to wait until the rain water drained from fields so that the paddy harvesting machines could reach the crop. Farmers who suffered damage due to waterlogging and crop lodging were also forced to wait for the visit by agricultural and Revenue officials for assessment purpose. After a long wait, paddy harvest has begun in different parts of Tiruchi, including Musiri, Thottiam, Lalgudi, Samayapuram, Mannachanallur, Andhanallur and others. In Karur district, paddy harvest has picked up momentum in Kulithalai, Nangavaram and Thogamalai. A large number of paddy harvesting machines from Namakkal, Erode, Tiruppur, Coimbatore and Salem districts have come to Tiruchi and Karur districts and are engaged in paddy harvesting. According cross sections of farmers, there has been a shortage of machines and there is an urgency among the farmers to harvest the paddy crop as early as possible. Farmers, who could not harvest the mature crop on time due to unseasonal rain do not want to wait further. The late sowers also have begun harvest and were making frantic efforts to engage harvesters, thereby leading to severe demand. This has led to a rise in the rental for harvesters. As against Rs. 2,200 last year, the machine operators were now charging Rs. 3,000 per hour. Moreover, they show reluctance to harvest on wet fields. “If the hike is Rs. 100 or Rs. 200, we can term it is nominal. But it has gone up by Rs. 800 per hour. It has added to the woes of farmers,” says S. Sivasuriyan of Andhanallur. According to sources, the shortage of harvesters has forced the farmers to revert to traditional harvesting methods in many areas. The labourers demand 120 to 160 “marakka” of paddy seeds for harvesting paddy on an acre, .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/harvesting-machines-in-short-supply/article33689642.ece
29 January 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Decorative statues come up as part of beautification drive||In a beautification drive undertaken by the Tiruchi City Corporation in association with the Tamil Nadu Handicrafts Development Corporation ( Poompuhar), decorative statues are to be erected at important junctions in the city. The work, undertaken under the Smart Cities Mission involves setting up of statues depicting various aspects of life, art and culture. The work to make the statues was handed over to Tamil Nadu Handicrafts Development Corporation, better known as Poompuhar. Some of the statues, made of fibre and concrete will be set up in islands and junctions in the city. The first of five such statues has been set up on the Chettipalam Bridge near the MGR statue on Bharathidasan Salai. Four galloping horses have been installed in a 25-metre space. Work to set up a decorative base, including laying of tiles is under way. A statue of two fish will be set up on Shastri Road, at the junction near Thennur Bridge, a peacock with its feathers unfurled is planned at Anna Nagar Main Road, while a pair of Karagattam dancers will be set up at the Thillai Nagar main road and Keezha Chathiram Road junction. While four of the five decorative statues have been delivered, the fish statue is yet to come, senior officials of the civic body said. The cost of the work is estimated at Rs. 97 lakh, and will be completed by February, they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/decorative-statues-come-up-as-part-of-beautification-drive/article33689635.ece
29 January 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||NGO sets up library for underprivileged children||A fully equipped library, with over 500 books was set up at the Friendship Children’s Home at Siruganur. The initiative, taken by Bhumi, Tiruchi Chapter, would enable children at the home to prepare for higher education. Bhumi Team had been conducting coaching classes for the 38 students residing at the Friendship Children’s Home run by VOICE (VOICE for the Oppressed through Integrated Community Emancipation) Trust. The idea for setting up a library came when the children began approaching volunteers from Bhumi, a not-for-profit organisation headquartered in Chennai, to provide reading material. “The children began to ask for books to prepare for competitive entrance examinations, and even for leisure reading”, a volunteer from Bhumi said. The team then approached A. Gregory, Project Director, VOICE Trust, to provide space for a library. “They had space in the home at Siruganur. We decided that we would utilise it and would use donor funds to purchase books,” the volunteer said. A total of Rs. 25,000 was used to purchase books, all requested by the children. “We identified five students who were responsible for making a list of books that their friends required. By the end of the week, we received a list of over 400 books,” he said. The location of the Friendship Children’s Home in Siruganur would also help other children residing in the area to access the books, he said. “There are no libraries in the area and we hope that other students in the locality too, can access the books that have been stocked here,” he added. Some donors helped provide tables and chairs, while a school teacher has agreed to donate 200 more books, he said.  The children began to ask for books to prepare for competitive entrance examinations and even for leisure reading Volunteer Bhumi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ngo-sets-up-library-for-underprivileged-children/article33689654.ece
29 January 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||‘Andal’ goes viral||A video clip of Sri Ranganathaswamy Temple elephant, Andal, communicating with her mahout Rajesh is going viral with animal lovers sharing it across several social media platforms. In the clip, the mahout can be seen asking Andal questions, to which the elephant responds with nods. Mr. Rajesh is a third-generation mahout. His father too, worked at the Sri Ranganathaswamy Temple in Srirangam, while his grandfather worked at the Sri Jambukeswarar temple in Thiruvanaikoil. To him, speaking to animals comes naturally, he told The Hindu . “There is nothing unique about Andal responding to me. All elephants communicate with their mahouts. She needs me when she eats, when she’s angry and even when she’s happy. It is a bond that we forge over several years,” he said. He fell in love with pachyderms from the stories his family told him, and soon, took up the job, he said. Andal, the 42-year-old elephant has been at the Srirangam temple for over 36 years and is a very loving elephant, Mr.Rajesh said. “Do not reduce her intelligence to just her response to my questions. She knows what her duty is through the day, she knows when the temple gates open, she knows when it is a special day and must be cleaned up and ready. Elephants are smart animals, but Andal is very smart,” he laughed. Andal’s daily schedule involves taking a dip at Kollidam before sunrise and offering prayers at the temple at 6 a.m. With the arrival of another elephant, Premi, also referred to as Lakshmi in October last year, Andal has a friend too, Rajesh said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/andal-goes-viral/article33689632.ece
29 January 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||IIM Tiruchi launches Executive Doctoral Programme||IIM Tiruchi has launched an Executive Doctoral Programme in Management (EDPM) targetting senior working executives. The EDPM is the fifth programme of IIM Tiruchi, after the flagship Post Graduate Programme in Management (PGPM), Post Graduate Programme in Business Management (PGPBM), Doctoral Programme in Management (DPM), and the recently introduced Post Graduate Programme in Management - Human Resources (PGPM-HR). The inauguration of first batch of EDPM that took place earlier this month in the presence of Sandhya Shekar, Former Founding CEO, IIT Madras Research Park, Advisor and Strategy Consultant. Godwin Tennyson, Director In-Charge and Dean (Administration) said the fifth programme by IIM Tiruchi has been launched within 10 years of start of the institution. The EDPM includes four terms of rigorous course work of 36 credits, and 360 hours of teaching. Eleven candidates out of 100 applicants who were chosen through a rigorous three-tier process hail from various backgrounds representing all functional areas of business management with an average experience of 18 years at leadership positions in public and private sector organisations In her address, Ms. Shekar said that the learning process becomes enriching when one relates it with work experience. Such programmes strengthen the relationship between academic institutions and the industry. Research process was as important as the end result, she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/iim-tiruchi-launches-executive-doctoral-programme/article33689638.ece
29 January 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Central region sees 51 new COVID-19 cases||The central districts on Thursday reported 51 new cases of COVID-19. One death was reported in Thanjavur district, according to the bulletin released by the State Health Department. A 65-year-old woman with a history of diabetes succumbed to COVID-19 at the Government Headquarters Hospital, Kumbakonam. Nineteen patients tested positive for the virus in Tiruchi on Thursday. Three patients who were undergoing treatment at the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital were discharged after recovering from the viral infection. Nagapattinam reported nine fresh cases, while Thanjavur reported six. Tiruvarur and Pudukottai both reported five fresh cases each. In Ariyalur, three fresh cases were reported, while Karur and Perambalur both reported two cases each.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/central-region-sees-51-new-covid-19-cases/article33689643.ece
29 January 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Creating awareness of COVID-19 and vaccination||The Nellai Field Outreach Bureau of Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, in association with the district administration, organized a two-day awareness programme with focus on Swachhta Pakhwada, Covid-19 vaccine administration awareness, voters’ awareness at Nochchikulam near here since Wednesday. The first day event featured cultural programmes and various competitions and song and drama troupe performed in various places around Nochchikulam to create awareness on cleanliness, pandemic and the need for casting votes without fail during elections. On the second day of the event – i.e. on Thursday - the awareness programme was held at the community hall in Nochchikulam. Inaugurating the event, Project Director, District Rural Development Agency, Tirunelveli, P. Manthirasalam released the awareness pamphlets and Assistant Collector (Training), Tirunelveli, Alarmel Mangai, who presided over the event, received it. The attractive pamphlets stresses need for ensuring cleanliness everywhere, the protocol to be followed strictly during pandemic and the need for casting votes without fail in elections, particularly during the ensuing Assembly polls. Welcoming the participants, Juney Jacob, Field Publicity Officer, introduced the theme of the event. Block Development Officer, Palayamkottai Florence Vimala, Medical Officer of Nochchikulam Primary Health Centre Kanthaswami Prabhu and Project Officer, Integrated Child Development Scheme R. Rajapriya delivered special address. Face masks, hand sanitisers and soaps were distributed to all participants of the programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/creating-awareness-of-covid-19-and-vaccination/article33689672.ece
29 January 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Fisherman found murdered||Aldrin, 47, of Kooduthaazhai, a fisherman from Kooduthaazhai, was found murdered near Thisaiyanvilai on Thursday. The police said he did not return home on Wednesday night after participating in the wedding celebrations of his cousin in the same area. Though his family and his relatives launched a search, they could not locate him. His body with injuries on the head was found lying near the Thisaiyanvilai – Idaichchivilai intersection on Thursday. The police sent the body to Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital for a post mortem. The police found that he was spotted at Kottappanai on Wednesday night around 7.30 p.m. Since he do not have a two-wheeler and a mobile phone, it is suspected that someone had taken him in a vehicle for consuming liquor and murdered him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fisherman-found-murdered/article33689673.ece
29 January 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Trains to halt for parcel loading||The Southern Railways has permitted express trains to halt for five minutes for parcel loading in some stations. A press release says that the train number 02662 Shencottai - Chennai Egmore Podhigai special train and train number 06235 Thoothukudi - Mysore special train are provided with five-minute halt at Virudunagar with immediate effect. The halt has been provided for train number 06182 Sengottai - Chennai Egmore Silambu special train at Rajapalayam, train number 02694 Thoothukudi - Chennai Egmore Pearl City special train at Sattur, train number 06724 Kollam - Chennai Egmore Ananthapuri special train at Kovilpatti and train number 02652 Palakkad - Chennai Central special train at Oddanchatram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/trains-to-halt-for-parcel-loading/article33690045.ece
29 January 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Municipality encourages residents to compost waste at home||In an effort to ensure better waste management, the Palladam Municipality in Tiruppur district is encouraging its residents to compost biodegradable waste at their residences and over 200 residents are at present doing so. Municipality Commissioner M. Ganesan said the number of residents engaged in composting kitchen wastes had increased from around 110 to 243 in the past year. These residents were felicitated in the recent Republic Day celebrations organised by the Municipality. The aim was to motivate other residents to engage in composting their kitchen waste. Priority Those who had taken up home composting were also given priority at the Palladam Municipality office when they visited it for any document work, he said. “We are expecting that 100 more residents will start home composting this year,” Mr. Ganesan said. Contract employees under the Swachh Bharat Abhiyan known as ‘animators’ would visit the residences of those interested to teach them the basics of home composting, he said. The Municipality had one micro composting centre, where about seven tonnes of waste would be processed every day. Parveen Banu, a resident of Ward No. 15 in the Municipality who has been composting kitchen waste for around six months, was one of the residents felicitated by Mr. Ganesan on Republic Day. “I saw my neighbour doing this, after which I started too,” she said. M. Vasantha Lakshmi from Ward No. 11, who has been engaged in composting for nearly a year, said she used the manure from the compost for the spinach and rose plants at her residence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/municipality-encourages-residents-to-compost-waste-at-home/article33689570.ece
29 January 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Tiruppur police arrest suspended official, document writer||The Tiruppur City Police on Wednesday arrested a former assistant, who was working at a Sub-Registrar Office, and a private document writer in connection with the case of committing forgery and misappropriating funds to the tune of nearly Rs. 69 lakh in the Registration Department. A release issued on Thursday said the accused were R. Shankar (33), assistant at Sub-Registrar Office (Joint-I) who was suspended in December 2020, and Jaishankar (35), a document writer at a private typing office near this office. The arrests were made by a special team from Central Crime Branch (CCB) of the city police led by Assistant Commissioner of Police K. Balamurugan. Tiruppur District Registrar R. Ramasamy lodged a complaint with City Commissioner of Police G. Karthikeyan in December 2020 regarding irregularities in handling of funds at four Sub-Registrar Offices. A sum of Rs. 68,93,432 paid by the public for the registration of 47 documents were misappropriated in these four offices, the release said. Subsequently, the CCB police registered a case and formed the special team, who arrested the two accused. Shankar, who cleared his TNPSC Group-II examination in 2012, admitted to illegally cancelling the money paid for a registration and using that money to purchase an immovable asset in Erode district. Being a document writer, Jaishankar confessed to reusing the 15-digit number found in the acknowledgement slip to misappropriate the money paid for registration of documents. The accused were remanded in judicial custody on Wednesday, according to the release. Sources privy to the investigation said more accused were likely to be arrested in connection with the case. The two accused had colluded to misappropriate the cash as per preliminary investigations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruppur-police-arrest-suspended-official-document-writer/article33689574.ece
29 January 2021||Tiruvarur,TAMIL NADU||3 held for damaging public property||The Tiruvarur police have arrested three persons belonging to Opposition parties on charges of unlawful assembly and causing damages to public property during the tractor rally organised by the All India Kisan Sangarsh Coordination Committee in Tiruvarur on January 26. The police identified the arrested as Thambusamy of Communist Party of India (Marxist), Bharathi of Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam and Durairaj of Communist Party of India. The police have also booked more than 100 persons charging them with unlawful assembly, damaging public property, preventing police personnel from executing their duty, attempt to murder and uttering unparliamentary words, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/3-held-for-damaging-public-property/article33689639.ece
29 January 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Closure notices issued to 55 homestays and resorts in MTR buffer zone||Closure notices have been issued to 55 homestays and resorts illegally operating in the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve (MTR) buffer zone. According to officials from the Masinagudi village panchayat, the action follows the death of a 50-year-old elephant that died from injuries it sustained when people running an illegal homestay threw a flaming object at the elephant, which got stuck in its ear and caused it fatal injuries. Two people have been arrested, while a third person, M. Ricky Rayan, is currently absconding. Officials said that a list of resorts and homestays operating in Mavanallah, Achakarai and Masinagudi, outside the notified elephant corridor, were drawn up following the incident. The people owning these properties had reportedly obtained permission to construct dwelling houses and residences, but were instead using these properties for commercial purposes, the officials added. Activists, including ‘Elephant’ G. Rajendran, responsible for obtaining a ban on the construction of resorts in the notified elephant corridor in the Sigur plateau, had recently written to the District Collector, J. Innocent Divya, calling for the illegal resorts and homestays operating outside the elephant corridor to be shut down as well, and for the three accused involved in the animal’s death to be booked under the Goondas Act.  People owning these properties reportedly obtained nod to construct dwelling houses and residences||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/closure-notices-issued-to-55-homestays-and-resorts-in-mtr-buffer-zone/article33689559.ece
29 January 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Vellore logs 7 cases||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 20,694 with seven new cases reported on Thursday. While a total of 20,250 persons have been discharged, the active cases in the district stand at 97. The district's death toll is 347. In Ranipet district, four cases were reported positive, taking the total to 16,107. In Tirupattur district, the total number of positive cases stood at 7,565 with two new cases on Thursday. In Tiruvannamalai district, three new COVID-19 cases were reported, taking the total number of cases to 19,346. Out of this, 19,034 have been discharged and the number of active cases stands at 29.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vellore-logs-7-cases/article33690003.ece
29 January 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||108 ambulances catered to more cases in 2020||Ambulances (108) have catered to more emergency cases in 2020 in this district . There was a sharp fall in road accident cases due to prolonged lockdown. Since only a limited number of vehicles were plying, the number of accidents had come down from 4,599 in 2019 to 3,868 in 2020. However, in 2020, 108 ambulances had to carry more pregnant women to hospitals for delivery. The number went up from 7,596 cases in 2019 to 8,525 cases in 2020. This could be attributed to two main reasons. One several private hospitals remained closed for a significant number of days as the COVID-19 cases were peaking in the middle of 2020. “People had to use 108 ambulances to go to government hospitals. Besides, more awareness of using our ambulances for pregnancy-related emergencies led to more calls,” said M. Srisenthil Kumar, Virudhunagar district coordinator for 108 ambulance services. The crew used to demonstrate the facilities available in the 108 ambulances to the pregnant women when they come for regular health check up to Primary Health Centres and government hospitals on Tuesdays. With a dedicated five ambulances, they were able to provide exclusive services to COVID-19 patients in picking them up from their homes to hospitals. A total of 4,667 COVID-19 cases were handled in 2020. “With the number of COVID-19 cases falling drastically, the number of ambulances for those patients has been reduced to two now. From February, only one vehicle will be used for COVID-19 patients. The best part of 108 ambulance services during 2020 is improving the response time to a significant extent. “After we got six more ambulances, from18 to 24, the time taken to reach the spot has come down to 10 minutes from 14 minutes.” The ambulances were moved closer to places identified as “accident hotspots” during peak hour traffic movement, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/108-ambulances-catered-to-more-cases-in-2020/article33689664.ece
29 January 2021||VIRUDHUNAGAR,TAMIL NADU||Karunas not to contest again from Tiruvadanai||Mukkulathor Pulipadai leader and ruling party MLA Karunas has said that he would not contest again from Tiruvadanai Assembly constituency in Ramanathapuram. Talking to reporters, Mr. Karunas claimed that he could not visit his constituency over “factional war” in AIADMK for the last two years. “It will not be fair to contest from the same constituency after not having visited there for two long years,” he said. Stating that his occupation was not politics, but only cinema, the actor claimed that if he did not get an opportunity to contest again, he would serve his Mukkulathor community. Stating that he had commenced a tour to create awareness among Mukkulathor youths on the reservation available to Most Backward Classes, he said he wanted more people from his community to get into government jobs. He pressed a caste-based census to give 25% reservation to Mukkulathors. He warned that if Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami decided to give exclusive reservation to Vanniyars “to further his political interest”, the State would witness unprecedented protests by Mukkulathors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/karunas-not-to-contest-again-from-tiruvadanai/article33690055.ece
29 January 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Karunas not to contest again from Tiruvadanai||Mukkulathor Pulipadai leader and ruling party MLA, Karunas, has said that he would not contest again from Tiruvadanai Assembly constituency in Ramanathapuram. Talking to reporters, Mr. Karunas claimed that he could not visit his constituency over “factional war” in AIADMK for the last two years. “It will not be fair to contest from the same constituency after not having visited there for two long years,” he said. Stating that politics was not his occupation, but only cinema, the actor claimed that if he did not get an opportunity to contest again, he would serve his Mukkulathor community. Stating that he has commenced a tour to create awareness among the Mukkulathor youths about the reservation available to the most backward classes, he said he wanted more people from his community to get into Government jobs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/karunas-not-to-contest-again-from-tiruvadanai/article33689655.ece
29 January 2021||January 29 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||18 cases in Erode district||Erode district reported 18 new cases, taking the district’s tally to 14,305. While 12 persons were discharged, 176 persons continue to be under treatment. Sixteen positive cases were reported in Salem. According to health officials, all cases were indigenous, including eight in Salem Corporation limits. In Namakkal, 11 cases were reported, of which two patients have returned from Salem. Krishnagiri recorded three new cases and eight persons were discharged on Thursday. This has taken the total number of current cases to 31 and the total number of infections in the district to 8,055. Dharmapuri saw three new cases and two discharges. This has taken the total number of current cases to 31 and the total number of infections to 6,577 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/18-cases-in-erode-district/article33689682.ece
29 January 2021||January 29 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||48 new cases in Coimbatore district||A total of 48 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Coimbatore district on Thursday. The district had 426 patients undergoing treatment at different hospitals on Thursday while 52 persons were discharged. The district did not report any death due to COVID-19 on Thursday. Tiruppur reported 25 fresh cases, taking the district’s tally to 17,829. No deaths were reported in the district. As many as 17,429 patients have recovered and 179 were active cases. The toll stood at 221. On Thursday, 21 patients were discharged. In the Nilgiris, 10 persons tested positive. With the latest infections, the total number of confirmed cases in the district stood at 8,187. The toll stood at 47 on Thursday while 61 persons are undergoing treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/48-new-cases-in-coimbatore-district/article33689581.ece
29 January 2021||January 29 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Gallantry medal for Madurai loco pilot||It was a proud moment for locomotive pilot J. Suresh when he received Anna Medal for Gallantry from Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on the Republic Day for his swift and effective action to bring a full rake of an express train to a screeching halt before it could hit a boulder lying on the tracks. Mr. Suresh, with his rich experience, was on his regular duty on the Madurai-Chennai special train (Vaigai Express) from Madurai to Tiruchi on November 18, 2020. When the train crossed Kodaikanal Road station, he was in for a shock - just when the train negotiated a sharp curve, the locopilot noticed two huge boulders lying on the track. “On seeing the boulders, I applied the emergency brake immediately. The train stopped before it could hit the boulders,” Mr. Suresh recalled. The only other condition that helped averting a possible accident was the caution order of a restricted speed of 50 kmph on this section where deep rock cutting has been undertaken. “I had only discharged my duty. We cannot assume that had the train hit the boulders, it could have derailed. But my swift action did definitely bring the loco to a sudden halt as the train stopped around 100 metres ahead of the boulders,” he said. Through his action he not only ensured the safety of passengers but the act itself was reassuring to the travelling public - that the railway has a system in place with its watchful men to ensure a safe journey. In recognition of his timely action, the Southern Railway gave him cash award and certificate. “It was an unexpected but rare opportunity for me to get the gallantry medal from the Chief Minister,” Mr. Suresh said with pride.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gallantry-medal-for-madurai-loco-pilot/article33689658.ece
29 January 2021||January 29 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Veda Nilayam’ is now a memorial for Jayalalithaa||Jayalalithaa’s legal heirs J. Deepa and J. Deepak (niece and nephew) had objected to the inauguration on the grounds that the inventory of the articles in the bungalow was not taken in their presence. “Only the main gates to the bungalow should be opened and the participants should access only the garden,” the court had ruled on Wednesday. It directed that the keys of the premises be handed over to the High Court Registrar-General after the ceremony. ‘Veda Nilayam’ was once considered one of the nerve centres of Dravidian politics; many national and regional leaders had visited Jayalalithaa here. It was from here that she was rushed on the night of September 22, 2016, to a private hospital, where she died on December 5 that year. Hundreds of AIADMK workers and Jayalalithaa’s admirers were disappointed after they were stopped from entering her residence. Assembly Speaker P. Dhanapal, Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam, members of the Cabinet, Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam and senior officials participated in the event. Unveiling her statue on Kamarajar Salai, Mr. Palaniswami said Jayalalithaa’s birth anniversary on February 24 would be observed as a government function every year. “Floral tributes would be paid at the statue on behalf of the State government on her birth anniversary every year,” he said. The government was taking steps to amend the Indian Penal Code, with the concurrence of the Centre, to increase punishment for crimes against women and children. He also renamed the campus after the former Chief Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/veda-nilayam-is-now-a-memorial-for-jayalalithaa/article33689648.ece
29 January 2021||January 29 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Official apathy||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/official-apathy/article33689666.ece
29 January 2021||January 29 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Ideal setting||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ideal-setting/article33690047.ece
29 January 2021||January 29 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Making ends meet||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/making-ends-meet/article33690058.ece
29 January 2021||January 29 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore today||Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan: Talk on ‘Bharathi Kanda Kanavu’, Bhavan’s premises, 6 p.m.  Coimbatore Speakers Forum of Toastmasters International: Virtual meeting, 6.29 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-today/article33689568.ece
29 January 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||KLE–CTIE awarded Seed Support Scheme||The Start-up Incubation Centre at KLE Technological University, KLE–CTIE, has been awarded the NIDHI–SSS (National Initiative for Developing and Harnessing Innovators – Seed Support Scheme) by the Centre. The Department of Science and Technology has released a grant of Rs. 5.25 crore to the incubation centre to scale up startup activities. The scheme aims to ensure timely availability of seed fund to deserving start-ups which can get up to Rs. 25 lakh and in exceptional cases, can be awarded Rs. 1 crore as seed support in the early stages of their journey for market support and scale-up. “NIDHI–SSS is a great opportunity for startups in the region to jump start their business to a new level. Now, at KLE–CTIE, startups can enjoy support at all levels. Once the startup selection committee is constituted, startups shall be asked to apply for seed funding. This is indeed a great support for startups as many have plans to scale up but are struggling to align their financials. “We at KLE–CTIE are excited to see world class startups come to Hubballi,” Director, KLE–CTIE, Nitin Kulkarni, has said. A startup selection committee will assess startup ideas for their relevance, marketability and entrepreneurial perseverance before they are deemed eligible for seed support. KLE–CTIE has successfully supported more than 80 startups over the last eight years. Start-ups here work in various domains such as VLSI, ESDM, BioTech, AgriTech, ITES, Food Tech and HealthTech. Vice-Chancellor Ashok Shettar has said that it was a remarkable recognition for a campus incubator and it reflected on the university’s vision and values. “Our aim is to make Hubballi a hub of world class startups and getting such funding takes us closer to it. KLE–CTIE teamwork has led to this recognition,” he said. Interested startups can access further details on www.klectie.com and apply for the scheme by contacting the centre at ctie@kletech.ac.in, a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/klectie-awarded-seed-support-scheme/article33689715.ece
29 January 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Protest rally in Belagavi||Members of Karnunada Sevakara Sangha took out a protest rally in Belagavi on Thursday against the statements of Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray about his ideas of merger of Belagavi with Maharashtra. They took out a rally to the Deputy Commissioner’s office, shouting slogans against the Maharashtra government and the Chief Minister. They accused Mr. Thackeray of trying to disturb peace in Karnataka over the border dispute. They submitted a memorandum to the President urging him to dismiss the Maharashtra government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/protest-rally-in-belagavi/article33689707.ece
29 January 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Students felicitated||KLE Society’s Raja Lakhamagouda PU College felicitated meritorious students in Belagavi on Thursday. J.S. Kavalekar, principal, asked students to utilise their time in college for all-round personality development along with academic excellence. Students Shivani Raikar, Omkar Savant, Anika Nayak and Vishakha Kargi spoke. Vice-principal Sandeep Javali, teachers S.B. Bannimatti and M.M. Kumbar and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/students-felicitated/article33689705.ece
29 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||IX, I PU classes will start from Feb. 1: Minister||Regular classes for students of Class IX and I PU will begin from February 1. The announcement was made on Thursday by Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar after a meeting with the technical advisory committee and the Health Department. In addition, the Minister said that starting from February 1, regular classes will be conducted for IX, X, I and II PUC students the entire day to cover the syllabus. For students from Classes 6 to 8, the ongoing Vidyagama classes on alternative days will be continued. In December, based on a suggestion of the committee, the State government had allowed conducting classes for SSLC and II PUC students from January 1 and revised Vidyagama classes for students of Classes 6 to 8. “On an average, 75% students of II PU and 70% of SSLC are attending classes. For Vidyagama classes, around 45% of students are attending classes. Classes are being conducted as per the SoP of the technical advisory committee. There were no reports of a major spread of COVID-19 among teachers or students after classes commenced from January 1,” Mr. Kumar said. The Minister said during his interaction with the students in various districts, he received feedback that physical classes are more effective than the online classes. The technical expert committee will meet again in the second week of February to take a decision on conducting regular classes for other standards. However, education expert Niranjan Aradhya V.P., said, “The State government’s decision to not conduct regular classes from Class 1 to 8 is unfortunate, unscientific and anti-constitutional. At present, students of the middle income group have the opportunity to study, but poor children are deprived of their rights because of laxity shown by those in power. The State government allowed all commercial activities such as malls, theatres, etc., to open and did not value the educational rights of the children.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ix-i-pu-classes-will-start-from-feb-1-minister/article33689502.ece
29 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Karnataka signs MoU with Amazon||Amazon India on Thursday signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with the Department of Industries & Commerce, Government of Karnataka to help drive e-commerce exports from the State. As part of the MoU, Amazon will train and on-board MSMEs from the State on Amazon Global Selling, its exports programme, enabling them to sell their Made in India products globally to customers in over 200 countries. Training, webinars Amazon will conduct training, webinars and on-boarding workshops for exporters from key MSME clusters in the State, like Ballari, Mysuru and Channapatna. The workshops will focus on sharing knowledge and imparting training to MSMEs about B2C e-commerce exports and selling worldwide through Amazon’s 17 international marketplaces to over 300 million customers worldwide. “Karnataka has vibrant automobile, agro, aerospace, textile and garment, biotech, and toys and handicraft sectors, which are held together by lakhs of MSMEs. Our partnership with Amazon India will encourage our MSMEs to leverage Amazon’s global presence and showcase their products to customers across the world,” said Jagadish Shettar, Minister for Large and Medium Scale Industries, Government of Karnataka.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/karnataka-signs-mou-with-amazon/article33689490.ece
29 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Case Fatality Rate continues to be highest among nonagenarians||Despite the drastic decline in the number of COVID-19 deaths in the State, Case Fatality Rate (CFR) continues to be the highest in the 90-99 age group. From 11.4% on November 27, CFR in this group (90-99 years) rose to 11.6% on December 27 and again reduced to 11.4% on January 27. This is the highest CFR among the five age groups of senior citizens - from 60-69 years to above 100 years. However, CFR among senior citizens of two groups, above 60 and above 100 years, has fallen in the State. In the above 60 age group, CFR that had stood at 5.4% on October 27, reduced to 4% on November 27. This further reduced to 3.7% on December 27. In the centenarians group, it reduced from 5% in November to 4.8% in December and has remained the same this month too. Over 60% of the 12,207 COVID-19 deaths in the State as of January 27 were that of senior citizens, even as this age group accounts for 16% of the 9.37 lakh cases, indicating that people in this category are highly vulnerable. Senior citizens had accounted for 59.7% of the total 12,062 deaths as on December 27. Rapid progression Anoop Amarnath, member of Karnataka’s COVID-19 critical care support unit (CCSU), who heads the department of geriatric medicine at Manipal Hospitals, said one of the potential reasons for the high mortality in the 90-99 age group is the high rate of disease progression. “What we have seen on the ground is that the rate of decline in the condition of nonagenarians is rapid once they land with moderate/severe COVID-19 infection. The time taken to deteriorate from single-organ dysfunction to multi-organ failure in this age group is very short leaving little time for the treating clinician to intervene,” the doctor said. He said that early identification and early intervention is vital. Advanced comorbidities C.N. Manjunath, nodal officer for labs and testing in the State’s COVID-19 task force, attributed the high CFR in this age group to multiple age-related advanced comorbidities and geriatric issues. “Many nonagenarians usually have hypertension and diabetes with heart enlargement or hypertension and diabetes with kidney disease. Some may have compromised lung function, would have suffered a stroke or have impaired cognitive function (dementia). All these issues put them at high risk thereby leading to rapid progression of the infection,” he said. “Moreover, some of them can be bedridden too because of which urinary tract infections are common. Such patients need special geriatric and good nursing care,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/case-fatality-rate-continues-to-be-highest-among-nonagenarians/article33689487.ece
29 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Polls for Council Dy. Chairman post today; BJP’s Pranesh set to win||Election to the post of Deputy Chairman of Legislative Council, which has fallen vacant, has been necessitated with the filing of nomination by BJP and Congress candidates. The election will be held on Friday. While BJP legislator M.K. Pranesh filed his nomination papers on Thursday, Congress asked it’s senior member K.C. Kondaiah also to file his nomination for the post. However, it is unlikely that Mr. Kondaiah will prevail over his BJP rival as the Congress does not have the numbers on its own. The support of Janata Dal (Secular) is crucial in the election since no party has a clear majority in the 75-member House. JD(S) and BJP have already come to an understanding over sharing of the post of Deputy Chairman and Chairman. The two parties have given notice to move a no-confidence motion against Chairman K. Prathapchandra Shetty. Senior-most member in the Council and JD(S) leader Basavaraj Horatti, who is set to become the joint candidate of JD(S) and BJP for the Chairman’s post on Thursday, thanked party supremo H.D. Deve Gowda for having provided the opportunity to him to become the Chairman. He also met Mr. Gowda in the morning. Mr. Horatti thanked Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa and BJP legislators for agreeing to the arrangement. Mr. Horatti said that the notice of no-confidence motion has been given and according to the rules, the notice has to be issued 14 days before. “The 14-day window will end on February 2 and the motion has to be included in the agenda after that,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/polls-for-council-dy-chairman-post-today-bjps-pranesh-set-to-win/article33689495.ece
29 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Six variants of electric vehicles launched||A city-based firm, which launched six variants of electric vehicles on Thursday aimed at various segments, is expected to shift operations to Bagalkot once its new manufacturing unit is operational in the next six to nine months. Balan Engineering currently has a unit in Bengaluru with a production capacity of about 400 vehicles a month. Balakrishnan N., director, Balan Engineering Pvt. Ltd., said, “We have acquired 25 acres for setting up the manufacturing facility at Bagalkot. Land development activities have been completed.” In the initial phase, the new factory, to be set up with an outlay of Rs. 50 crore, will have a production capacity of 2,500 EVs per annum. The plant can be expanded to make more than 50,000 vehicles a year. To start with, it will employ 200 workers. Industries Minister Jagdish Shettar unveiled the new vehicles in Bengaluru. Union Minister for Chemicals and Fertilisers Sadananda Gowda and Minister for Road Transport and Highways Nitin Gadkari participated in the event through video-conferencing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/six-variants-of-electric-vehicles-launched/article33689482.ece
29 January 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Exhibition of local and sustainable brands||The India Handmade Collective, in association with Mission Samriddhi, is presenting a three-day exhibition titled S A L T (Sustain Act Live Transform) from January 29. The exhibition features local and sustainable brands from across India. It will be held from 10 a.m. to 7 p.m. at Bangalore International Centre, 4th Main, Stage 2, Domlur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/exhibition-of-local-and-sustainable-brands/article33689484.ece
29 January 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Disruption in power supply||There will be power supply disruption on January 29 from 11 a.m. to 2 p.m. in the areas serviced from 220/66/11 KV HSR MUSS (F10 feeder) for carrying out the erection of HT structure work. The areas that will be affected are Old Mangammanapalya main road, Gold Hill Square, Muneshwara Nagar, G.B. Palya, Popular Colony and surrounding areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/disruption-in-power-supply/article33689483.ece
29 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Provisional timetable for SSLC exams announced||The provisional timetable for the SSLC exams is out. Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar, who announced the dates on Thursday, said the exams will be conducted from June 14 to June 25. “We have fixed a provisional timetable. Last year, we started SSLC exams from June 25. This year we plan to complete exams by June 25,” he said. The Minister also said that attendance criteria for the SSLC exams will be relaxed for this academic year. As per the tentative dates, for general students, first language exams will be conducted on June 14, mathematics on June 16, second language on June 18, science on June 21, third language on June 23, and social science on June 25. Any objections to the provisional timetable can be addressed to the Director (Exams), Karnataka Secondary Education Examination Board, 6th Cross, Malleswaram, Bengaluru – 560003. The board will receive objections from January 28 to February 26, 2021. Last year, the examination which was scheduled to be held in March was postponed after the lockdown to contain the COVID-19 pandemic came into force. Finally in June, the examinations were being conducted amidst unprecedented precautions as over 8.48 lakh students registered for the exam, and over 1 lakh officials were deployed. For the ongoing academic year, it was on January 1 that schools and colleges finally opened their doors to Class 10 and II PU students after over nine months, though online classes began in June/July last year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/provisional-timetable-for-sslc-exams-announced/article33689501.ece
29 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||2.84 lakh inoculated in State so far||A total of 2,84,385 healthcare workers of the targeted 5,42,041 have been vaccinated in the State so far. On Friday, the 13th day after vaccination began on January 16, the State achieved a coverage of 44% with 18,230 of the day’s targeted 41,634 coming forward to take the jab. While Bidar recorded the highest with 78% coverage, Ramanagaram recorded the lowest coverage with 12%. Vaccination was not held in five districts –Yadgir, Uttara Kannada, Haveri, Chitradurga, and Chickaballapur. Only four districts - Bidar, Chikkamagaluru, Dakshina Kannada, and Udupi – recorded coverage of 50% and above. In BBMP limits, 44% coverage was recorded on Thursday. According to the media bulletin released by the Health Department, a total of 420 adverse events following immunisation (AEFI) have been reported in the State so far. Except nine, all of them were minor AEFI. As many as nine minor AEFI were reported on Thursday. Among the 420, 24 required hospitalisation. While 15 of them are still in hospital, the rest have recovered, officials said. Meanwhile, Karnataka continued to lead with the highest number of healthcare workers getting vaccinated compared to other States. While Uttar Pradesh followed Karnataka with 2,77,608 beneficiaries getting vaccinated there, Rajasthan and and Maharashtra vaccinated 2,44,204 and 2,18,030 beneficiaries respectively, according to a PIB release. 550 cases, 2 deaths The State on Thursday reported 550 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total to 9,37,933. With two deaths, the toll rose to 12,209. This is apart from 19 deaths of patients due to non-COVID-19 reasons. As many as 644 persons were discharged on Thursday, taking the total recoveries to 9,19,503. Of the remaining 6,202 active patients, 150 are being monitored in the ICU. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 0.83%, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) touched 0.36%. Bengaluru Urban reported 311 cases taking its tally to 3,98,147. With both the deaths coming from Bengaluru, the toll in the district rose to 4,385. Active cases in Bengaluru reduced to 3,932. As many as 66,061 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, including 60,944 RT-PCR tests. With this, the total number of tests rose to 1,68,16,459.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/284-lakh-vaccinated-in-state-so-far/article33689489.ece
29 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Cong. stages symbolic protest||The principal Opposition Congress staged a symbolic protest during the Governor’s address, accusing the BJP government of neglecting the North Karnataka districts. As Governor Vajubhai R. Vala began his customary address to the legislature, Congress members led by their leader Siddaramaiah rose up holding placards for a brief while, before they sat down and listened to the speech peacefully till the end. In the placards, Congress members accused the government of neglecting North Karnataka by not holding a legislature session in the border district of Belagavi. Generally, the government conducts the winter session of the legislature session in Belagavi, which was not done this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cong-stages-symbolic-protest/article33689497.ece
29 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘CM will be consulted on school fee’||Though classes have begun reopening, there is still no clarity on the fee structure. Replying to a question on parents’ allegations against private schools demanding full fee, Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar said the Chief Minister would be consulted on the issue. “We will make a balanced decision keeping in mind the interest of parents and also consider the situation of teachers working in private schools who need a source for their livelihood. A decision will be taken at the earliest,” he said. Parents angry However, the delay has angered parents of childen of private schools. They have threatened to carry out a huge protest against the government for not taking action in a time-bound manner, accusing it of allowing private schools to fleece them. B.N. Yogananda, member, Private Schools Parents Associations coordination committee, said, “Earlier, we held several protests after which the Education Minister claimed to resolve the issues raised. Now, he is buying time and not delivering. Private schools are collecting hefty fees. If we fail to pay, they are blocking online classes. There are instances of forcing parents to take transfer certificates for failing to pay the fee. We were hopeful of the government taking a decision on Thursday, but that did not happen. We are holding a meeting on Friday. If the government fails to address our concern, we will stage protests.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cm-will-be-consulted-on-school-fee/article33689503.ece
29 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Nirani warns officials showing laxity in revenue collection||Minister for Mines and Geology Murugesh R. Nirani on Thursday warned the department officials, particularly district heads, not to show laxity in collection of revenue in the current fiscal year citing COVID-19. As poor collection of revenue was recorded in in some districts, including Mysuru, Kolar, Davanagere, Dakshina Kannada, and Ramanagaram, the Minister said: “All the excuses should be left behind and focus should be on meeting revenue targets.” The department set a revenue target of Rs. 3,750 crore in 2020-21 but collection was less by 10% so far, said official sources. Holding a meeting with department officials which was attended by Additional Chief Secretary (Mines) G. Kumar Naik, Director of Mines and Geology D. Ramesh and heads of districts, Mr. Nirani expressed unhappiness over the district officials, particularly in Shivamogga and Yadgir, not taking timely action to contain illegal stone quarrying. “I have received many complaints against districts officials on going soft on illegal quarrying in Shivamogga district. We should strive towards bringing a good name for the department. That is possible only when officials show commitment towards their work,” Mr. Nirani said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nirani-warns-officials-showing-laxity-in-revenue-collection/article33689492.ece
29 January 2021||Bengaluru/Yadgir,KARNATAKA||Savadi: Why can’t Mumbai be a Union Territory?||Deputy Chief Minister Laxman Savadi said on Thursday that the border issue was settled and Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray must behave maturely and stop unnecessarily raking up the issue for political gains. Hitting back at Mr. Thackeray’s statement that Belagavi and other areas of the State claimed by Maharashtra must be declared Union Territories, Mr. Savadi said by the same logic Karnataka would also have a claim over several areas in Maharashtra, including Mumbai. “The entire Bombay Karnataka region was under Bombay Presidency and hence we can also argue that we have a claim over Mumbai. We can make a claim on Mumbai and say till the issue is settled, let Mumbai be made a Union Territory,” he said. Mr. Savadi said Karnataka had accepted the Mahajan Committee Report on border issue, a committee that was formed at the insistence of Maharashtra. “Maharashtra Ekeekaran Samiti has now gone to Supreme Court challenging the report, where the case is still pending. Maharashtra must now keep quiet till the apex court gives its verdict,” he said hoping the verdict will be in Karnataka’s favour only.  Entire Bombay Karnataka region was under Bombay Presidency and hence we can also argue that we have a claim over Mumbai.Laxman SavadiDeputy Chief Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/savadi-why-cant-mumbai-be-a-union-territory/article33689496.ece
29 January 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Growers seek MSP for coffee||Karnataka Growers’ Federation has appealed to the State government to provide minimum support price for coffee, considering the loss growers suffered in the last one year. KGF president H.T. Mohan Kumar and secretary K.B. Krishnappa, in a press release issued here on Thursday, sai coffee growers were in financial distress as nearly 50 pc of the yield from coffee and pepper farms was lost due to untimely rains in January. The growers were not in a position to harvest the remaining yield due to non-availability of workers. “The Kerala government has initiated measures to provide minimum support price for coffee. The Karnataka government should come forward to the rescue of the growers in Chikkamagaluru, Hassan and Kodagu districts”, the Federation said. It demanded MSP at the rate of 1.5 times of the production cost.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/growers-seek-msp-for-coffee/article33689939.ece
29 January 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Work on rly. bridges to begin soon||The construction of railway bridges in Shivamogga and Bhadravati, necessary to ease the flow of traffic, will begin soon, said Shivamogga Lok Sabha member B.Y. Raghavendra. He spoke to presspersons after holding a meeting with officers in Shivamogga on Thursday. The Centre has approved four fly-over projects in the district. Two would come up on Savalanga Road, one at Kashipura railway crossing and one more at Bhadravati. A sum of Rs. 60 crore for Savalanga Road, Rs. 30 crore for Kashipura crossing and another Rs. 49 crore for Bhadravati have been released, he said. The officers have been instructed to complete the preparations soon and start the work by March 1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/work-on-rly-bridges-to-begin-soon/article33689938.ece
29 January 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Woman murdered, attacker found dead||A person murdered a woman and was later found dead at Siddapura in Sakleshpur taluk of the district on Thursday. According to preliminary investigations by the police, Hemanth, 25, wanted to marry Sushmitha, 21. Both were from the same village. As she refused to marry him, he got angry and attacked her with a hatchet in broad daylight and killed her. He then fled the place and attempted to end his life by jumping into a tank in the village. However, a local person, who happens to be a close relative of Sushmitha, saved him and brought him out of the water body. Later Hemanth ended his life by hanging in a farm field. Sakleshpur Rural Police have registered a case.  (Those in distress or those having suicidal tendencies can call Arogya Sahayavani Ph.: 104 for help.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/woman-murdered-attacker-found-dead/article33689940.ece
29 January 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||50 bikes burnt in blaze||Nearly 50 bikes and other valuables were destroyed in an accidental fire at a garage of a rental motorcycle aggregator on Ring Road in Hassan on Thursday. The fire was noticed in the basement of the building around 8.30 am. Two fire tenders reached the spot and extinguished the fire in an hour. C.R. Ranganath, District Fire Officer, told The Hindu: “It seems the fire occurred because of short-circuit at the charging point.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/50-bikes-burnt-in-blaze/article33689717.ece
29 January 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Women stage protest, seek ban on illicit liquor trade||Staging a demonstration in front of the office of the Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad under the aegis of Madya Nishedha Andolana, scores of women sought total ban on sale of illicit liquor in the State. The women, who staged demonstration on Wednesday, said that the sale of illicit liquor is going on unabated in the State. But the officials have remained mute spectators to it without taking any action against those indulging in illicit liquor trade, they said. The women said that liquor is being sold openly in provision stores also in rural areas resulting in hardships for thousands of families. Due to easy availability of liquor in villages, several men are spending all their hard-earned money on alcohol, pushing their families to the streets, they said. Despite a series of protests over the last six years, the governments have failed to act against those involved in illicit liquor trade, they said. The protesting women said that although the High Court of Karnataka had directed the government to take stern action against sale of illicit liquor, so far no steps have been taken to curb the menace. Setting a deadline of a fortnight for the government to act, they threatened to launch a protest if their main demand is not met.  The women said that liquor is being sold openly in provision stores also in rural areas resulting in hardships for thousands of families||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/women-stage-protest-seek-ban-on-illicit-liquor-trade/article33689713.ece
29 January 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Exclusive budget sought for North Karnataka||Chairman of Dharwad-based North Karnataka Development Initiative Shivayogi Tenginakai has urged Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa to present an exclusive budget for the development of North Karnataka during his budget presentation this year. In a letter written to the Chief Minister, Mr. Tenginakai has said that Mr. Yediyurappa had earlier taken steps for ensuring effective implementation of the recommendations of Dr. Nanjundappa Committee on Regional Imbalance. “Now, just like you presented a budget for agriculture earlier, please present an exclusive budget for the development of North Karnataka,” he has appealed to the Chief Minister in the letter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/exclusive-budget-sought-for-north-karnataka/article33689712.ece
29 January 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||FPAI launches new course||Family Planning Association of India (FPAI) Dharwad has launched a new training course for general duty-cum-bedside assistant, which is a skill development and certification course. The new course launched for the academic year 2021-22 will enhance the employability of the youths, Chairperson of FPAI Dharwad Ratnamala Desai has said. Speaking to presspersons in Dharwad on Wednesday, Dr. Ratnamala Desai said that the objective of the course was to develop relevant skills which, in turn, would help youths in entry-level jobs in allied healthcare sector. She said that the FPAI planned to hold training for 175 men and women in five batches for the current year. The first batch will commence on February 1 in eight locations, including Dharwad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/fpai-launches-new-course/article33689714.ece
29 January 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Kalaburagi police arrest gang, foil dacoity plan||The Kalaburagi police have arrested a six-member gang that was making an attempt to commit dacoity by waylaying travellers near Tavargera Cross on Bidar-Srirangapatna National Highway 150-A on the outskirts of Kalaburagi city late on Wednesday. Based on a tip-off, a police team, led by Circle Inspector of the Grameena Police Station Basu Chavan and Police Sub-Inspector Waheed Kotwal, arrested the six persons, Mirza Salman Baig, 21, Mirza Munawar Baig, 24, Mohammad Zubair, 21, Mohammad Rafeeq, 23, Shaikh Waseem, 22, and Majeed Husain, 19. Of the six accused, three are drivers and the others are plumbers. The police stated that the accused were planning to waylay unsuspecting passers-by on the national highway and rob them of their valuables. The police have recovered a lethal weapon, knives, black clothes, chilli powder and five mobile phones from them. A case has been registered.  Of the six accused, three are drivers and the others are plumbers||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kalaburagi-police-arrest-gang-foil-dacoity-plan/article33689721.ece
29 January 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||HKCCI urges Nirmala to consider demands from Kalyana Karnataka||Hyderabad Karnataka Chamber of Commerce and Industry (HKCCI) has written to Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman urging her to incorporate the demands concerning Kalyana Karnataka region in the forthcoming Union Budget for 2021-22. HKCCI president Amarnath C. Patil and secretary Shashikanth B. Patil, addressing presspersons here on Wednesday, urged the Union government to take steps for the effective implementation of Article 371(J) of the Constitution accorded to Kalyana Karnataka region and extend reservation benefits in education, employment and basic infrastructure on the lines of Vidharba in Maharashtra. The implementation of schemes under special status for the region was not up to the mark. Even after allocation of huge funds in the last seven years, there was no development, he said. HKCCI also demanded that the Union government announce Central assistance to KKRDB in the Budget. The Union government has provided funding to Telangana and Vidharba region which have special status and also increased assistance to North-Eastern States by 21%. Mr. Patil also sought the establishment of an IT Park and a Textile Park in Kalaburagi, which have the potential to remove poverty by affording employment opportunities. Expressing discontent over the non-implementation of the National Investment and Manufacturing Zone (NIMZ) and the Kalaburagi Railway Division, Mr. Patil said that both the projects were sanctioned in 2013. Mr. Patil accused the State government of not submitting a proposal to the Centre for final approval of the project even after conducting a techno-economic feasibility survey of the project. He demanded that the State government submit a proposal for final approval to establish NIMZ. The government should establish a Skill Development University in the Kalyana Karnataka region; this would help in removing poverty. Mr. Patil demanded that the State government submit a proposal to the Centre seeking sanction for establishing a Green Energy Corridor in Kalaburagi district and to release an assistance of Rs. 800 crore for the purpose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hkcci-urges-nirmala-to-consider-demands-from-kalyana-karnataka/article33689704.ece
29 January 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘Post staff with Kannada knowledge in banks’||Members of the Udupi Zilla Panchayat on Thursday sought posting of employees conversant with Kannada in nationalised banks in the district as a majority of the staff hail from other States. Member Babu Shetty said that customers were finding it difficult to transact in banks in view of the language barrier and therefore, at least two employees with knowledge of Kannada should be posted in every branch. Customers are unable to get details of various government schemes because of the language issue, he added. Lead Bank Manager Rudresh informed the meeting that banks are facing a peculiar problem as not many Kannadigas are evincing interest in joining nationalised banks. As such, people from Andhra Pradesh, Bihar and Uttar Pradesh are getting selected, he said. Agriculture and Industry Standing Committee Chairman Sumith Hegde urged banks to sanction education and Mudra loans without any delay. Applications should not be rejected for simple minor defects, he said. While Jyothi Harish drew the attention of the panchayat about the increased menace of sloth bear attacks on people at Kabbinale near Hebri, Janardhan Tonse said that motor vehicle accidents were happening due to movement of deer and gaur. The members urged the Forest Department to draw up suitable action plans to prevent such man-animal conflicts. Shashikanth Padubidri urged the panchayat to ask the Tourism Department to ensure that local people and fishermen at Padubidri End Point where the Blue Flag Beach was formed, were not disturbed while carrying out their routine activities. He also urged the concerned to direct the Stamps and Registration Department not to register sale of land by Suzlon Infrastructure that was allegedly selling land allotted to it. Panchayat CEO Y. Naveen Bhat asked the Women and Child Development Department to organise awareness programmes on inoculation against COVID-19 following complaint by member Sumith Shetty that not many anganwadi workers were coming forward for inoculation. District Health and Family Welfare Officer Sudhir Chandra Suda said that of the 22,103 identified healthcare workers, 9,299 were inoculated so far. Panchayat president Dinakar Babu, vice-president Sheela K. Shetty and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/post-staff-with-kannada-knowledge-in-banks/article33689907.ece
29 January 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Karwar express speeded up by 20 minutes||South Western Railway has decided to speed up Train No 06585 KSR Bengaluru-Karwar Express Special by delaying its departure at Bengaluru by 20 minutes and running the service as a Superfast Express between Bengaluru and Hassan. A communique here said that the train will leave Bengaluru at 6.40 p.m. instead of 6.20 p.m. from January 31. The 20-minute delay will be made good by operating it as a superfast till Hassan and eliminating stoppage at Chikkabanavara. It will leave Channarayapatna at 8.25 p.m. and Hassan at 9.20 p.m. Services extended A release from Palakkad Division of Southern Railway here said that the services of Train No 06515 KSR Bengaluru-Mangaluru Central Special (Mondays, Tuesdays, Thursdays and Saturdays) have been extended till March 30. Periodicity of its pairing service, Train No 06516 Mangaluru Central-KSR Bengaluru Special (Tuesdays, Wednesdays, Fridays and Sundays) has been extended till March 31. Festival specials A release from Konkan Railway Corporation here said that Train No 06338 Ernakulam Jn-Okha Bi-weekly Festival Special running on Fridays and Wednesdays has been extended till March 31 while its pairing service, Train No 06337 Okha-Ernakulam Jn Bi-weekly Festival Special running on Mondays and Saturdays has been extended till April 3. The operation of Train No 02620 Mangaluru Central-Mumbai LTT Superfast Festival Special (Matsyagandha) daily express has been extended till March 31 and its pairing service, Train No 02619 Mumbai LTT-Mangaluru Central Superfast Festival Special (Matsyagandha) daily express has been extended till April 1. Train No 06072 Tirunelveli-Dadar Weekly Superfast Special running on Wednesday has been extended till March 31 while that of its pairing Train No 06071 Dadar-Tirunelveli Weekly Superfast Special running on Thursdays has been extended till April 1. A release from Palakkad Division said that services of Train No 06070 Tirunelveli-Bilaspur Weekly Special on Sundays will be extended till March 28 while that of its pairing Train No 06069 Bilaspur-Tirunelveli Weekly Special on Tuesdays will be extended till March 30. The operation of Train No 02475/02476 Hisar-Coimbatore-Hisar Weekly Special on Wednesdays/ Saturdays has been extended to run till further advice. Services of Train No 02978/02977 Ajmer-Ernakulam-Ajmer Weekly Special on Fridays/ Sundays will be extended till further advice.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/karwar-express-speeded-up-by-20-minutes/article33689902.ece
29 January 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Mangalore University to have a culture policy: V-C||In order to encourage children to take up art and culture, the Mangalore University will have a separate culture policy, which will be on the lines of the sports policy of the university, said Vice-Chancellor P.S. Yadapadithaya here on Thursday. Inaugurating the Talamaddale series programme at the Yakshagana Kala Kendra of the university’s Dr. P Dayanada Pai P. Satish Pai Yakshagana Adhyayana Kendra here on Thursday, Mr. Yadapadithaya said those who are involved in art, culture and sports will not lose their way in life. He asked students to pursue their interest in arts and culture along with their studies. This will not only make the student strong in academics but also makes him/her morally strong.  Encouraging students Director of the kendra Shripati Kalluraya said the kendra was encouraging more students to involve themselves in art forms like Yakshagana. The kendra was not only teaching the basic dance steps of Yakshagana but also telling the nuances of Bhagavathike (singing) and its importance in Yakshagana. Holding the Talamaddale series was a step in that direction, he said. Yakshagana artist Padyana Shankar Narayan Bhat was felicitated. The inaugural Talamaddale was ‘Shalya Sarathya’. Purushottama Bhat and Subraya Sampaje were the Bhagavatars, while Padyana Shankaranarayana Bhat and Muralidhar Kalluraya played the Chande and Maddale respectively. Radhakrishna Kalchar, Ganaraj Kumble and Sripati Kalluraya were the Arthadharis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mangalore-university-to-have-a-culture-policy-v-c/article33689914.ece
29 January 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||They make it colourful...||A team of enthusiastic youth from Mangaluru decorated the walls of Vijetha Special School in Karkala town, Udupi district, with special paintings to commemorate the Republic Day on Tuesday. Located at Kukkundur in Karkala, the school caters to the needs of special children. The team, Make Someone Smile; Helping Hand, undertook the beautification work with the concept “Will Make It Colourful”. Walls of the school building were painted depicting the valour of Indian Armed forces and personnel. The wall on the other portion of the school building was painted with pictures depicting the rich culture and heritage of Tulu Nadu, including Kambala, Yakshagana, Pili Vesha and fishing. The team wrote its name in Tulu script on one wall that was also decorated with paintings of traditional games scuh as Lagori, Rope Pulling, Kite Flying.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/they-make-it-colourful/article33689905.ece
29 January 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||‘MCC increasing burden on people by revising tax’||The party ruling the Mangaluru City Corporation Council has gone with the usual revision of property tax, water tax, and trade license fee in the budget instead of proposing works that help the corporation generate revenue. Opposing the budget passed by the ruling party on Thursday, Congress Councillor A.C. Vinayraj said when people are facing hardship following lockdown and other restrictions, the ruling party has proposed increase in property tax, water tax, and trade license fee. “The ruling party increased the burden on people,” he said. The budget does not make any mention of generating revenue from telecom and other organisations involved in cutting roads for laying their cables, he said. Senior Congress Councillor and former Mayor Shashidhar Hegde said basic of budget preparation was looking at the demand, collection and saving of Revenue, Engineering and other primary revenue generating divisions of Corporation. “I do not see the same being followed for this budget,” he said. “If you (corporation) properly make use of the grants given by the State and Central government and take steps to collect taxes, there would be no need to increase tax rates,” Mr. Hegde said. Kuteera Bhagya Leader of Opposition Abdul Ravoof said the corporation has proposed to provide water 24X7 to people without making proper arrangement for source of water. Mr. Ravoof asked the ruling party to increase the amount under Kuteera Bhagya scheme for the homeless from the present Rs. 25,000 to Rs. 50,000. Denying the allegations by Opposition, BJP councillor Premanand Shetty said there was no proposal for increase of any tax. The corporation was surveying properties and bringing more households in the tax net. There was no question of increasing property tax. The Mangaluru Smart City Ltd. was taking up improvement of infrastructure of Urban Primary Health Centre in Jeppu and other UPHCs, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mcc-increasing-burden-on-people-by-revising-tax/article33689915.ece
29 January 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Name board in Tulu script unveiled in Mudradi||Madaga locality in Mudradi village near Hebri in Udupi district came to have a name board of the locality written in Tulu script on Wednesday. The board, arranged by Madaga Friends Mudradi, was unveiled at Madaga in Mudradi by Tulu theatre artiste Surendra Mohan. Mr. Mohan said that unveiling of the name board in Tulu script along with its Kannada version beneath was a happy moment. Commending Madaga Friends for its initiative to popularise Tulu script, he urged other organisations to follow suit and popularise the script. Speaking on the occasion, Madaga Friends president Sudhir Shettigar said that the association intended to promote Tulu script and hence, the name board. Hebri Block Congress president Manjunath Poojary said that Madaga Friends that was involved in various social activities, including cleanliness drives, has gone a step forward for the cause of Tulu script. Gram panchayat members M. Ganapathi, Santosh Kumar Shetty, Ramyakanthi, Sanath Kumar and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/name-board-in-tulu-script-unveiled-in-mudradi/article33689901.ece
29 January 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Arrested||The Surathkal Police on Thursday arrested three persons said to be involved in the assault of Mohammed Jabid from Katipalla Seventh Block on Wednesday night. Three persons waylaid Jabid near Ganeshpura temple in Katipalla when he was returning home with his friend as a pillion on a motorcycle at around 11 p.m. After a heated exchange of words and blows exchanged, one of accused stabbed Jabid. The police gave the names of the arrested persons as Raju (20), Abhishek (18) and Srinivas (20), all from Katipalla First Block. The knife and the two-wheeler used by the accused were seized. The case is being investigated under the supervision of the Police Commissioner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/arrested/article33689908.ece
29 January 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Pvt. hospitals continue to see good turnout||Turnout of health workers for COVID-19 vaccination continues to be good in Dakshina Kannada and a total of 1,468 of the 2,032 workers received the jab on Thursday. As many as 280 of the 300 health workers turned up at three vaccination centres at Father Muller College and Hospital, while 285 of the 300 health workers received the jab at the three vaccination centres at K.S. Hegde. 240 health workers were vaccinated at the three centres at A.J. Hospital, 158 at Kastuba Medical College and Hospital in Attavar and 156 health workers at Yenepoya Medical College and Hospital. 152 health workers received the jab at the three centres at KVG Hospital. 85 of 86 health workers got the jab at First Neuro Hospital, 60 at Kanachur Hospital, 37 at Government Wenlock Hospital and 15 at Shrinivas Hospital. In Udupi, a total of 1,014 of the 1,600 health workers, who were registered, received the vaccination jab on Thursday. So far 10,313 of the 22,103 health workers have received the jab.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pvt-hospitals-continue-to-see-good-turnout/article33689916.ece
29 January 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Scribes body arranges journalists’ village stay at Kombaru||The Dakshina Kannada District Working Journalists Association will organise “Journalists’ Village Stay” in Kombaru village of Kadaba taluk on Sunday. Association president Srinivas Nayak Indaje told reporters here on Thursday that village stay programmes were aimed at the overall development of an identified backward village through collaborative efforts involving government agencies, non-governmental organisations, and village residents. The association had its first such programme at Kuthlur in Belthangady taluk, followed by Madappadi in Sullia taluk.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/scribes-body-arranges-journalists-village-stay-at-kombaru/article33689911.ece
29 January 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||MCC cracks down on illegal banners||The Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) has ordered a crackdown on the use of flex, banners and buntings across the city. Besides, it is also illegal as the MCC had passed a resolution against such display. It wants to make the city free of display of banners as it mars the visual appeal and aesthetics. MCC Commissioner Gurudutt Hegde said the directive also applies to advertisement hoards that tends to come up in places not authorised by the corporation. He said there are designated places identified by the MCC where the advertisement bill boards and hoardings can be displayed on payment of fee. But it has come to the notice of the corporation that unauthorised display of hoardings and bill boards were rampant and at places where they are not authorised and hence a crackdown has been ordered. The crackdown has led to levying penalties in some cases of unauthorised display of hoardings and flexes, said Mr. Hegde. The Commissioner pointed out buntings and flex boards bearing pictures of individuals and announcing their birthday had become common and were proliferating across the city. In addition, there is a practice of announcing the death of any individual by putting up a poster of the deceased mentioning their date of birth and date of death in public places, all of which will be prohibited. As for as political rallies and functions are concerned the MCC issues permission for the use of flexes and banners but they have to be pulled down soon after the rally or the programme is over and cannot be left there for an indefinite period. The Commissioner also drew attention to the current practice of advertisement boards and banners nailed to the trees. This practice too was getting out of hand and hence the corporation had decided to penalise the advertisers as most of them tend to mention their contact numbers for offer of service be it tuition, getting Aadhaar card, driving licence, renewal of policies etc. But this is not the first time that the MCC has ordered such a crackdown on advertisers. However, posters and banners tend to appear with unceasing regularity in by-lanes and on boards indicating the street number, thus masking the address.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mcc-cracks-down-on-illegal-banners/article33689942.ece
29 January 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||JD(S) move keenly awaited||The JD(S), which has shared power with both BJP and Congress in the Mysuru City Corporation (MCC), is playing its cards to its chest ahead of the impending Mayoral polls. Though the tenure of Mayor Tasneem from the JD(S) and Deputy Mayor C. Sridhar from the Congress ended earlier this month, the next Mayor and Deputy Mayor will be elected only after the State government makes an announcement on the reservation for the two posts. The JD(S), which shared power with the BJP in the previous Council, has tied up with the Congress in the present Council, which is also hung. But, the relationship between the JD(S) and Congress has soured at the State level after the collapse of the H.D. Kumaraswamy-led coalition government. The JD(S), which has 18 members in the 65-member MCC, is being wooed by both the BJP, which has 22 members, and Congress, which has 19 members. Former Minister and JD(S) MLA S.R. Mahesh, who had recently held a meeting and declared that the party would prefer to sit in the Opposition, on Wednesday claimed that the party’s present position with regard to Mayoral polls is “neutral”. He said the party will not take any decision on an alliance till the government announces the reservation for the posts of Mayor and Deputy Mayor. “Both the parties are our political rivals”, he said. Though some JD(S) corporators and a few former Mayors had brought to the party leadership’s attention the ‘misbehaviour’ by some Congress leaders, he said the party leaders’ relationship with other Congress leaders in the district is intact. He said it would be inappropriate to blame the entire party for the misbehaviour of a few of them. Former Minister and Congress MLA Tanveer Sait had recently said the party’s alliance with the JD(S) was valid for a full term. While the Congress had its Mayor in the first term – Pushpalatha Jagannath – the second term saw Ms. Tasneem from the JD(S) bagging the coveted post. As per the understanding, the Congress will get the Mayor’s post for the third term while the JD(S) nominee will occupy the post of Mayor for the last two terms. Meanwhile, the BJP is keen to revive its alliance of the previous Council with the JD(S). BJP leaders from the district have already made overtures to the JD(S).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/jds-move-keenly-awaited/article33689937.ece
29 January 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Bilikere women’s collective adopts CFTRI technologies||The CSIR-Central Food Technological Research Institute (CFTRI), Mysuru, has transferred two of its technologies to a village women’s collective as a part of an endeavour to improve livelihood initiatives in rural areas. The transfercould become possible following its MoU with Grassroots Research and Advocacy Movement (GRAAM), Mysuru. The MoU was signed last year for providing a mutual technical-social collaboration for establishing rural livelihood initiatives in the country. The CFTRI extended technology transfer of two products - convenience flour suitable for stiff porridge (Ragi Mudde mix) and malted weaning food (Ragi Shishuposhan) through technical training to the women entrepreneurs of Bilikere women’s collective - Asare Sanjeevini Food Products. A week-long training programme was conducted this month by Usha Dharmaraj and the team from CFTRI, which has expertise in the processing of millets and pseudo cereals, among others. Around 15 women from the collective participated in the training and learnt the process involved in preparing the above two products for their social business initiative. The training programme was held at CFTRI. Upon successful completion of the training, they received certificates at a programme held at CFTRI recently. Executive Director of GRAAM, Basavaraju R. Shreshta; Director of CFTRI, Sridevi Annapurna Singh; Head of TTBD at CFTRI, Rajeshwar Matche; and the staff of CFTRI and GRAAM were present. Susheela, Project Director, ZP, Mysuru, and Girish, EO, Taluk Panchayat, Hunsur, and NRLM field staff were also present. The CFTRI director said empowering women will empower their families, thereby empowering the nation. Appreciating the efforts, she said the CFTRI will always be open to extending any technical support in making the initiative a successful one. She congratulated all the women and wished all success to the aspiring women entrepreneurs of Bilikere. Dr. Basavaraju thanked CFTRI for joining hands with GRAAM in its social initiative and agreeing to extend its support in future initiatives. He explained about the uniqueness of the initiative and its convergence with the national interest including “Atmanirbhaar Bharat” and women empowerment. GRAAM, in a release here, said it intends to develop a brand for products produced by the women entrepreneurs. “A millet-based value-added product manufacturing unit will be set up and will handhold the women entrepreneurs to streamline the business functions in a sustainable manner,” it said. The project is being supported by Wuerth Elektroniks, a 75-year-old multinational company under its Corporate Social Responsibility initiative.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bilikere-womens-collective-adopts-cftri-technologies/article33689944.ece
29 January 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Handicraft expo at JSS Urban Haat||Gandhi Shilpa Bazaar, an exhibition of handicrafts and textiles, will be held at the JSS Mysuru Urban Haat from January 29 to February 7, according to a release. It is part of the initiative by the Union Ministry of Textiles to organise 300 mega marketing events across the country and to provide direct marketing avenues to the artisans. The event is being organised in association with JSS Mahavidyapeetha and will provide direct marketing linkage between artisans and customers. About 100 artisans and craftspersons from all over India are also participating in it and they will get a feel of the tastes and needs of the consumers. The major crafts that will be on display are exquisite wood carvings, stone carvings, bronze icons, wood inlay items, terracotta, papier mache, carpets, durries, imitation jewellery, wooden lacquerware, pearl jewellery, batik, leather craft, kalamkari painting, Tanjore/Mysuru painting etc. from the southern States of Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry. Artistic leather chappals of Maharashtra, stuffed toys, Kutch embroidery, dhokra casting from Chattisgarh, Chanderi sarees, Patola sarees, Pattachitra, silver filigree from Odisha, chittal patti, cane and bamboo, dry flower items from North Eastern States, cut glass jewellery, carpets, art metal works from Uttar Pradesh, stone artware, printed textiles, Madhubani paintings of Bihar, phulkari from Punjab, leather items, lac bangles will also be displayed.  Pratap Simha, MP, Mysuru, will inaugurate the exhibition on January 29 at 4 p.m. and the event will be open to public from 10.30 a.m. to 9 p.m. till February 7, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/handicraft-expo-at-jss-urban-haat/article33689946.ece
29 January 2021||NEW DELHI,KARNATAKA||Apex court dismisses Vishwanath’s appeal||The Supreme Court on Thursday dismissed an appeal filed by BJP leader and MLC A.H. Vishwanath against a State High Court order disqualifying him from being appointed a Minister. A Bench led by Chief Justice of India Sharad A. Bobde said the disqualification would hold if a person is only nominated as an MLC and not elected. “Special leave petitions are dismissed,” the court ordered. Mr. Vishwanath was one of the 17 dissident legislators whose disqualification by the Speaker under the anti-defection law was upheld by the Supreme Court in 2019. Their defection had led to the toppling of the Congress and Janata Dal (Secular) coalition government. The apex court, in its 2019 judgment, did not bar the disqualified legislators from contesting byelection. Mr. Vishwanath, however, did not manage to get re-elected. He was later nominated as MLC by the Governor. He was in the race to become a Minister in the present BJP government under Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa before the High Court order became a stumbling block. Senior advocate Gopal Sankaranarayanan, for Mr. Vishwanath, argued that his disqualification was only “restricted to the capacity of the office from which I have been disqualified” and not from appointment as a Minister. “If you come back elected it is fine. If you are simply nominated, it cannot be,” Chief Justice Bobde agreed with the High Court's conclusions. The Bench said the HC was well-reasoned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/apex-court-dismisses-vishwanaths-appeal/article33689493.ece
29 January 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||‘Deodurg is now seeing several key development works’||Deputy Chief Minister Laxman Savadi has said that development works are being implemented in right earnest owing to the interest shown by MLA Shivanagowda Naik, who has been trying to remove the label of backwardness attached to his constituency ever since he entered politics. He was addressing a gathering after laying the foundation stone for development works to be taken up at a cost of Rs. 231 crore under the fifth phase in Deodurg Assembly Constituency under various departments, including Public Works, Rural Drinking Water Supply and Sanitation, Karnataka Housing Education Corporation Society, Krishna CADA, KBJNL, KRIDL, Health, CASHUTEC, near Gugal in Deodurg taluk of Raichur district on Thursday. Appreciating Mr. Naik for his contribution to the constituency, Mr Savadi said that “We all, including Ministers V. Somanna and Arvind Limbavali, came here to take part in the programme to extend support and stand behind Mr. Naik and encourage him in his endeavours of public service. “I hope Deodurg will become the most developed constituency in Kalyana Karnataka in the future,” he added.. Housing Minister V. Somanna said that the people of Deodurg have placed their trust in and elected Mr. Naik with a margin that was more than the party’s expectations. “In return, Mr. Naik is bringing development with crores of rupees. Deodurg was identified as one among the backward taluks by the Nanjudappa report. But, now, the taluk is seeing several key development works,” he said. Forest and Kannada and Culture Minister Arvind Limbavali said that a Salumarada Timmakka Vana will be developed in the constituency after Mr. Naik finds a suitable place for it. Hitting back at Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, Mr. Limbavali said that the statement by him over Belagavi and other parts of Karnataka was nothing but nonsense and arrogant. “Being Minister for Kannada and Culture, I will strongly condemn his statement and want to make it clear that we will fight against anyone if the matter is related to Kannada language, culture, water and land,” he said. “The areas over which Mr. Thackarey is trying to create confusion are integral to the State. Kannada is more than 2,000 years old and not Marathi. Therefore, he should stop making such nonsensical statements over the border issue,” he said. Mr. Shivanagowda Naik also spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/deodurg-is-now-seeing-several-key-development-works/article33689711.ece
29 January 2021||January 29 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||‘Why have a tree park in a forest?’||Why does a forest need a tree park? This is the question that citizens and environmentalists are asking about the government’s plan to create a tree park in the nearly-600-acre Turahalli forest. They are questioning the logic of the plan, especially since there is a tree park opposite the forest. Cleanup Turahalli, a group of volunteers working on conservation of the ecosystem at Turahalli, said that instead of investing in productive plans such as creating a sustainable water body inside the forest, the government is looking at implementing changes without consulting the public. “Human movement should be completely restricted in a reserve forest. Only then will it be more secure as a forest. A tree park is the beginning of the destruction of a forest, a move towards commercialisation. Within no time, it will become another Cubbon Park or Lalbagh, and along with that, not only have a negative impact on the existing biodiversity, but also spoil the environment around the neighbourhood and inconvenience residents,” said a volunteer with Cleanup Turahalli. They questioned the impact that increased human intervention will have on the numerous species of birds, animals and reptiles in the forest. “There are lot of peacocks inside Turahalli forest. Peacock comes under the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972. How can they make a peacock forest habitat into a public park?” Ravishankar S.S., DCF, Bengaluru Urban, maintained that the proposed tree park is not ‘inside the forest’, but ‘on the periphery’. “There is already a walking path. Some benches and children's play equipment will be added to that section without harming the biodiversity. Recently, some 113 species of birds have been recorded against the earlier 80. That means birds are coming. We want to popularise this forest and increase awareness among people and children about nature,” he said. He also reasoned that the move would ward off encroachers, and patrolling would be increased. When asked about the need for another tree park in the area, he said the existing one is small, with basic amenities. “Not everyone can travel all the way to Cubbon Park or Lalbagh. When we create tree parks, we are lowering the pressure on Cubbon Park and Lalbagh as well,” said. Mr. Ravishankar. Citizens are now appealing to those in power, including the Prime Minister, to let the forest be. “While we are open to progress and development, we would not like to achieve that by destroying the existing green cover. Ever since entry to Turahalli reserve was banned by fencing the periphery, it has bloomed and thickened its green cover, resulting in an increased number of natural habitants and has also welcomed new ones. If this is kept up, we can gradually see other species of flora and fauna returning to this forest,” they have said in an open letter, urging the Prime Minister to “prevent damage to the endangered forest”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/why-have-a-tree-park-in-a-forest/article33689472.ece
29 January 2021||January 29 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||‘Police personnel must take weekly off’||Police personnel have taken on all kinds of new work, the enforcement of rules to tackle the COVID-19 pandemic being only one of them. Needless to say, like most frontline workers, they are expected to put in hours beyond their call of duty. But, in a memo issued on Thursday to the SPs, range IGPs, Commissionerates and senior officers at the State headquarters, DG&IGP Praveen Sood has said that one of the requirements for ensuring good physical and professional health of policemen is to provide a weekly off. “It has been time and again reiterated that mandatory weekly off , spread over all the days of the week by rotation, should be provided to all policemen, except in emergency situation like major bandobast, elections and natural calamities,” Mr. Sood said in the memo. For the week off which could not be provided due to the above circumstances, the in-charge officer should compensate with allowance or with an alternate day off, he has said. Mr. Sood further said that officers in-charge should enforce the guidelines scrupulously. The memo was issued after Mr. Sood realised that constables, who represent a major percentage of the force, are denied a weekly off and forced to work for long hours. “Despite clear cut directions on a weekly off, they are only on paper. We are forced to work without an off,” a constable alleged. But another constable said, “It is not so bad as many seniors are compassionate and realise the importance of a weekly off, but they too are helpless owing to shortage of staff.” This is not the first time that a memo on implementation of weekly off was issued. Earlier, when N.S. Megharikh was the city police commissioner, he had issued memos to all the DCPs making it mandatory for policemen up to the rank of PSI to be granted a weekly off. He had also stated that the station in-charge should compensate one day’s payment allowance or offer an alternative day off for those who are denied weekly off on account of emergency situations. Former commissioner Bhaskar Rao made it mandatory for 30% of the total workforce in the city to take one weekly off at the peak of lockdown enforcement. “The personnel who get a chance to spend quality time with their family tend to come back afresh, which improves their performance at work,” said M.A. Saleem, Additional DGP (Admin.).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/police-personnel-must-take-weekly-off/article33689479.ece
29 January 2021||January 29 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||BIFFes to be held in first week of April||The 13th edition of Bengaluru International Film Festival (BIFFes) will be held in the first week of April, Karnataka Chalanachitra Academy has announced. The event has been delayed this year due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Given that the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) has eased restrictions on occupancy in film theatres from February 1, the festival will be held at Orion Mall in Rajajinagar, like the previous editions, said Sunil Puranik, President of the Academy. Following the pandemic, most of the film festivals across the world have gone hybrid – screening films both in theatres and online, even as films are screened at multiple venues to distribute the audience. However, as of now, BIFFes doesn’t plan to either screen films online or increase the number of venues, but a final call will be taken based on how full occupancy at theatres will pan out over the next two months. “COVID-19 seems to be behind us. The case load is low and the vaccination drive has begun. So we have decided to hold the festival like the previous years, following all COVID-19 safety norms prescribed by the government,” Mr. Puranik said. The executive committee will meet and take a call on multiple venues and online screening soon, he added. “Theatres will start functioning to their full capacity from February 1, giving us almost two months to evaluate whether they do turn out to be spreaders of the virus. Even if they are not, we will know how people respond. Based on the situation, we will decide whether to go for the hybrid model and opt for multiple venues in mid-March,” said N. Vidyashankar, artistic director, BIFFes. B. Suresha, president, Suchitra Film Society, said they would offer their premises in south Bengaluru for screening films, which may help senior citizens avoid large crowds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/biffes-to-be-held-in-first-week-of-april/article33689474.ece
29 January 2021||January 29 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Businessman lands in honeytrap, loses Rs. 34 lakh||The CCB is on the lookout for a gang who allegedly honey trap businessmen and blackmail them. The racket came to light when Shekhar, a 50-year-old businessman from Chennai, was forced to hand over Rs. 34 lakh to them. The complainant visits the city often on business trips. On one of the trips in March last year, the accused sent an escort to his hotel room and recorded a video. One of the accused, Veeresh, introduced himself as the owner of an online news channel, and demanded Rs. 80 lakh if the video was not to be made public. The businessman contacted his friends for advice, but they too reported having a similar experience. The complainant paid Rs. 34 lakh. When the accused started calling demanding payment of the remaining amount, Mr. Shekhar approached the cyber crime police and filed a complaint on January 22. The police raided Veeresh’s office and recovered the electronic equipment and other materials used for the crime.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/businessman-lands-in-honeytrap-loses-rs-34-lakh/article33689477.ece
29 January 2021||January 29 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Suspension of metro services on Purple Line||To facilitate structural maintenance work on the Purple Line, the BMRCL has decided to suspend metro services for two hours between Baiyappanahalli and M.G. Road metros stations on January 31. The services will be suspended between 7 a.m. and 9 a.m. to carry out maintenance work between Trinity and Halasuru metro stations. A release from the BMRCL states that the train will run on the rest of the Purple Line between M.G. Road and Mysuru Road. After completion of the work, normal metro services will be restored on the entire Purple Line. The release further states that services on the Green Line will be operated as per schedule.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/suspension-of-metro-services-on-purple-line/article33689485.ece
29 January 2021||January 29 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Back to normal||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/back-to-normal/article33689910.ece
29 January 2021||January 29 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Indrajit appears before CCB||Filmmaker Indrajit Lankesh presented himself at the Anti-Narcotics Wing in the CCB office on Thursday, but could not meet the officials concerned as they were busy in security duty for the ongoing Assembly session. This is the third time that the CCB summoned him to get more information about a drug racket. Sources in the department said that the CCB is contemplating making him prime witness in the case. Lankesh said, “I have been cooperating with the CCB right from the beginning. The CCB is working on this case, but has arrested only small fish while big whales are still out. There should be a detailed investigation.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/indrajit-appears-before-ccb/article33689475.ece
29 January 2021||January 29 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Amrutamati bags award||Amrutamati , based on the 13th century Jain poem Yashodhara Charite , starring Haripriya and Kishore, has bagged the best foreign language film award at the Atlanta International Film Festival. It had won the Best Actor award at the Noida International Film Festival last year for Haripriya, who plays the titular role of Amrutamati. The film, directed by Dr. B. Ramachandrappa, is all set to hit the screens in March.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/amrutamati-bags-award/article33689480.ece
29 January 2021||January 29 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Drug racket busted, two arrested (There is another net copy which can probably be merged with this. Don’t have access to it.)||CCB on Thursday arrested two persons, including an African, for allegedly peddling MDMA in the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/drug-racket-busted-two-arrested-there-is-another-net-copy-which-can-probably-be-merged-with-this-dont-have-access-to-it/article33689476.ece
29 January 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Nearly 50 years on, Alappuzha bypass opened||Ending a nearly five-decade-old wait, the Alappuzha bypass road was opened for traffic on Thursday, jointly by Union Minister for Road Transport and Highways Nitin Gadkari and Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan through videoconference. Speaking at the function, Mr. Gadkari said the Union government was constructing 35,000 km of the National Highway as part of the Bharatmala Pariyojana. “Of this, 1,234 km of road is being developed in Kerala. Besides, 119 km of port connectivity roads are being planned under the Bharatmala and Sagarmala schemes in the State,” he said. Mr. Gadkari said in 2020-21, 177-km road would be developed in the State at a cost of Rs. 604 crore. “Plans are afoot to develop the 13-km stretch of the NH 66 between Aroor and Thuravoor as a six-lane elevated road. As part of the Mumbai- Kanyakumari Economic Corridor, 650-km road will be developed under 23 projects in Kerala,” he said. The Minister said 227 blackspots had been identified on NHs in the State and steps were being taken to reduce the number of road accidents. The government was considering using coir and jute in road construction. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said steps would be taken to reduce the number of road accidents by 50%. He said the Palarivattom flyover would be completed in May, 2021. He sought the attention of the Centre towards the construction of a ring road for the Vizhinjam harbour. The 6.8-km two-lane Alappuzha bypass road, passing through the western side of NH 66, links Kommady in the north to Kalarcode in the south. The project came to fruition after a wait of nearly five decades. Elevated highway On April 10, 2015 it was put back on track with a deadline of September 2017. However, the project got delayed further owing to various reasons, including getting permission from Railways to place girders over the railway track as part of the construction of two rail overbridges at Malikamukku and Kuthirapanthy. One of the major features of the bypass is a 4.8-km stretch of the elevated highway that passes by the Alappuzha beach. Of the 4.8-km elevated highway, 3.2 km is flyover. The project was implemented at a cost of Rs. 348 crore with equal shares borne by the Union and State governments. Meanwhile, Congress party workers staged a protest march from General Hospital Junction to Kalarcode, the venue of the inauguration, for not inviting K.C. Venugopal, MP, and other Congress leaders. Although Mr. Venugopal’s name was on the programme list — he represented the Alappuzha Parliament constituency between 2009 and 2019 and worked to materialise the project — he skipped the inaugural function stating that he was not invited.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nearly-50-years-on-alappuzha-bypass-opened/article33689841.ece
29 January 2021||C. MayaThiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Wide disparities in mortality data among districts||Wide disparities among districts in COVID-19 mortality data have raised questions as to why some districts seem to be faring well in comparison to others. While epidemiologists ponder whether it is the difference in clinical management or institutional factors behind this disparity, some districts have fewer deaths merely because of under-reporting and data mismanagement, say experts. An analysis of COVID deaths in Kerala between September 15 and December 14, 2020 (2,173 deaths), when the epidemic curve hit the peak, shows that the proportional mortality in the 20-40 years age group is just 1.5% in Kozhikode while it is more than its double in Kollam and further up in Thiruvananthapuram. In the 40-60 age group also this variations can be seen, with Kottayam (30%) and Thiruvananthapuram (26%) recording the maximum deaths while Kollam has 18% and Kozhikode 16%. (Wayanad and Idukki were excluded from this analysis as the figures were insignificant at the statistical level.) This is an age group wherein most of those who succumbed to COVID were probably the breadwinners of families. Co-morbidities would have set in in this group, but this is one group where more lives can be potentially saved. “There could be any number of reasons, including the fact that some districts could have been doing better reporting. As COVID-19 has no definitive treatment, could this disparity be due to improved clinical management in certain districts? The question is whether there are correctable factors in districts which can help save more lives,” a public health professional points out. A comparative study of COVID treatment and outcome data from all institutions which have treated at least 500 or more patients could perhaps throw deeper insights into this, he adds Under-reporting However, the disparity between districts in fatality rates had been noted earlier itself and this is nothing but gross under-reporting and data manipulation by some districts, a member of the State’s expert committee on COVID says. “In many of these districts, the daily deaths reported by Collectors were in total variance with the data released by the State government. Pathanamthitta and Wayanad are two districts where this was very evident. In Pathanamthitta, at one point, when the official data put the number of total COVID deaths in the district at 16, the Collector’s report clearly put it as 105. This disparity has continued,” he says. The death reports are scrutinised at the State level by a death audit committee, before these are officially accepted as COVID fatalities. “Districts like Thiruvananthapuram have a high case fatality rate, because all COVID deaths are listed. Pathanamthitta, which has the highest proportion of elderly in the State and the highest disease transmission (case/million population), has one of the lowest CFRs of 0.19, according to official data. This just does not hold water,” he points out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/wide-disparities-in-mortality-data-among-districts/article33689854.ece
29 January 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Robusta coffee farmers hit by decline in price||The sharp decline in the price of Robusta coffee, even after the government announced a minimum support price for the crop recently, has put coffee growers in the State in a fix. Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac, in his budget speech a week ago, had increased the minimum support price (MSP) for a kg of raw Robusta coffee to Rs. 90. However, the announcement did not make any impact in the coffee market, Prasanth Rajesh, president, Wayanad Coffee Growers’ Association (WCGA), told The Hindu . The market price of the raw coffee berries in Wayanad last week was Rs. 63 a kg as against Rs. 75 a kg during the corresponding period last year. The price of processed coffee beans declined from Rs. 123 a kg last year to Rs. 115 a kg at present, Mr. Rajesh said. According to data available with the Coffee Board, Kerala produced 64,125 tonnes of Robusta coffee during 2019-20, of which Wayanad contributed 55,225 tonnes. Robusta coffee is cultivated on 67,366 hectares in Wayanad and 59,621 farmers are dependent on the sector. Nearly 97 per cent of them are small scale growers, Mr. Rajesh said. The price of coffee fluctuates as per the international market but the withdrawal of merchandise export incentive scheme (MEIS) by the Central government last month also contributed to the fall in the price, he said. The price of a kg of coffee beans in the market now is almost equal to that in 1995 but the daily wage of a worker had increased from Rs. 35 to Rs. 400 a day, said Victor Day, vice president, WCGA. Sources said for profitable farming, growers should get at least Rs. 90 a kg for raw coffee as they had to spent more than Rs. 80 to produce it. The Coffee Board has projected a crop size of 3.42 lakh tonnes in the country in 2010-21 in its post-monsoon estimates. This is about 15 per cent higher over the crop size of 2.98 lakh tonnes in the 2019-20 season.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/robusta-coffee-farmers-hit-by-decline-in-price/article33689791.ece
29 January 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Rahul urges Centre to set up spices park in Wayanad||Rahul Gandhi, MP, has urged the Central government to set up a spices park in Wayanad district to tap the vast potential of spices being produced in the district. Speaking after inaugurating a training programme organised by the Regional Agricultural Research Station (RARS) of Kerala Agricultural University at Ambalavayal for farmers of Scheduled Castes (SC) on Thursday, Mr. Gandhi said the district had the potential to cater to the demand for spices in the world market. Mr. Gandhi added that he had proposed to set up a spices park to tap the vast potential of spice processing and value-addition to the Centre. RARS acts as a co-opting centre for the all-India research project on spices organised by the Indian Institute of spices Research, Kozhikode. Under the project, spice crop varietal evaluation, crop production and crop protection trials have been carried out at the station. As many as 50 SC farmers have been selected for the programme. Mr. Gandhi also distributed agro-inputs and planting materials to farmers on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rahul-urges-govt-to-set-up-spices-park-in-wayanad/article33689796.ece
29 January 2021||KASARAGOD,KERALA||Hosdurg district jail gets green tag||The Hosdurg district jail has been declared ‘Haritha jail’ (green jail) in recognition of a series of activities undertaken under the Haritha Kerala Mission (HKM). Making the announcement, Revenue Minister E. Chandrasekharan lauded the jail for its exemplary service as part of the HKM’s sanitation, water conservation and organic farming practices. HKM district coordinator M.P. Subramanian said the jail had been doing a commendable job in line with the green protocol. It included cultivating a variety of vegetables such as brinjal, ladyfinger, spinach, tomato, cabbage, and cauliflower and fruits on the jail premises. Most of them are cultivated using grow bag owing to space constraints. For the record, the jail donated organic vegetables for the 2020 State School Children’s Festival. Drinking water Besides, the use of LED bulbs and rainwater recharging unit to solve drinking water shortage, and electricity generation using solar power helped it gain the green jail tag. Manam Haritabham The jail has also rolled out ‘Manam Haritabham’, a project for inmates who are about to be released. Making of paper pens by inmates was notable during the 2019 State School Arts Festival. Water treatment with proper drainage system and clean kitchen, toilet and prison rooms were also considered for granting the green status. Kanhangad Municipal Chairperson K.V. Sujatha presided over the function.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hosdurg-district-jail-gets-green-tag/article33689793.ece
29 January 2021||KASARAGOD,KERALA||Trade unions to intensify agitation at BHEL||Employees of BHEL Electrical Machines Ltd. in Kasaragod have intensified their agitation demanding the early completion of the transfer of equity in the company to the State government and payment of salaries, which have been pending for the past 18 months. Trade unions, including INTUC, CITU, STU, and BMS, formed a Joint Trade Union Action Committee to raise their demands on Thursday. Committee convenor A. Vasudevan said the unit in the district was proposed for disinvestment in 2016 in line with the NITI Ayog’s recommendation. He added that the unit was opened as a joint venture of BHEL and the Kerala government, with 51% and 49% stakes respectively. “Following disinvestment, the government agreed to take the rest of the stake, and a file was generated for its transfer in 2019. However, there has been inordinate delay on the part of the Central government in completing the process. This has put the life of 180 employees at stake, not to mention the huge debt into which the company has fallen,” he added. When disinvestment was proposed in 2016, the debt of the unit was around Rs. 50 lakh. However, it has now reached Rs. 50 crore, he claimed. Following disinvestment, adequate working capital was not made available by holders, and the unit suffered heavy losses by way of non-execution of projects, leading to cancellation of orders and financial crisis, he said. Mr. Vasudevan added that wages had been defaulted for the past two years along with non-payment of statutory remittances like provident fund and retirement benefits. This was despite orders from the National Human Rights Commission and the Kerala High Court to take appropriate steps to redress employees’ grievances. Even the High Court order directing the Centre and the Department of Heavy Industries to finalise the agreement of sale between BHEL and the State government within three months has not been complied with, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/trade-unions-to-intensify-agitation-at-bhel/article33689794.ece
29 January 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Police investigation in theft case uncovers brutal murder||The city police have uncovered a brutal planned murder hours after a fully charred body was found dumped alongside the railway track near Pulleppady overbridge. The body, which was found on Wednesday morning and could not be identified immediately, later turned out to be that of Joby, 19, of Fort Kochi. On Thursday afternoon, a police team led by C.H. Nagaraju, District Police Chief (Kochi City); Aishwarya Dongre, Deputy Commissioner, and a host of senior officials uncovered a plot involving a major theft that eventually led to the murder. At a press conference held at the Kochi Commissionerate, the police also produced four accused in connection with the theft in which gold ornaments weighing 130 sovereigns, over Rs. 1 lakh in cash, and a smart phone were stolen from a house at Elamakkara on New Year day. The arrested were identified as Denoy Chrosto, 24, of Thoppumpady; Haris aka Sulu, 34, from Malappuram; Manilal aka Surya, 19, of Kannamali; and Pradeep, 25, of Punalur. It emerged that Joby was the second accused in the case and was allegedly murdered by Denoy to keep the crime under wraps. The police said that Joby was murdered in the early hours of Wednesday after he was called there on the pretext of moving to a hide-out, and the body was set ablaze. “He was knocked down with a hammer and was set on fire using fuel, both of which were planted near the murder site well in advance,” Mr. Nagaraju said. Denoy allegedly plotted to steal the valuables from his uncle’s house and executed it with the help of Joby, while the other three were roped in to dispose of the loot. The theft was pulled off when the uncle and his family were at Denoy’s house in connection with his sister’s marriage. Though Denoy allegedly knew the place where the key to the house was kept, the duo broke open the backdoor of the house and the almirah using a crowbar so as not to draw any suspicions to Denoy. The team investigating the theft picked up Denoy on suspicion and his interrogation threw light on the theft and the subsequent murder. A team led by Thrikkakara Assistant Commissioner K.M. Jijimon and a team of sub inspectors and assistant sub inspectors arrested the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/police-investigation-in-theft-case-uncovers-brutal-murder/article33689834.ece
29 January 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Ensuring pandemic protocol in hostels an uphill task for Cusat||For the Cochin University of Science and Technology (Cusat), ensuring pandemic protocol in hostels is turning out to be a challenge. The varsity has announced a break for the offline sessions that resumed on January 4 after nearly 15 students and 10 teaching and non-teaching staff had tested positive. The postgraduate batches were asked to attend the classes initially. “Their offline exams that began on January 6 got over on Wednesday. The lab sessions will resume in the first week of February. A disinfection process of classrooms and labs will be carried out as per the pandemic protocol before resuming the sessions again,” said K.N. Madhusoodanan, Vice Chancellor. The authorities were finding it difficult to maintain the safety protocol and guidelines that include physical distancing and break-the-chain initiative in hostels round-the-clock. “Directions have been issued to step up vigil in hostels in view of the current situation. The monitoring has been stepped up, especially during night hours,” said Prof. Madhusoodanan. Hostel inmates have been told to be careful while venturing out in daytime. They have been asked to wear masks and use sanitisers to avoid the risk of getting infected. Hostel wardens have been advising students to restrict their movement outside hostels as students often visit eateries and other spots outside the campus. Online academic sessions will continue as planned earlier in spite of the temporary break for classroom sessions. The varsity had decided to go ahead with the blended learning and teaching mode even before resuming offline sessions in the first week of January. The mix of offline and online classes will remain till further notice as the pandemic situation has not improved in the State. An assessment of expanding the scope of offline sessions had taken a hit following the gradual increase in the number of students who had tested positive in two weeks after classes were resumed. The hostels will not be able to accommodate students more than the carrying capacity allowed as per the pandemic protocol.  Directions have been issued to step up vigil in hostels in view of the current situation K.N. Madhusoodanan Vice Chancellor||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ensuring-pandemic-protocol-in-hostels-an-uphill-task-for-cusat/article33689837.ece
29 January 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Solution in sight for development woes of Kadamakudy islands||An emergency executive meeting of the Goshree Islands Development Authority (GIDA) has cleared many projects, including a slew of bridges, critical to the infrastructural and overall development of the Kadamakudy islands in particular and the coastal region in general. The meeting was chaired by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and attended by Local Self-Government Minister A.C. Moideen. Clearance was accorded to the construction of Kothad-Chennoor bridge. S. Sarma, MLA, who attended the meeting, was confident of launching the construction of the bridge with an estimate of Rs. 37.50 crore at the earliest. The meeting also accorded administrative sanction for the construction of the Chennoor-Pizhala Bridge at an estimated cost of Rs. 19.50 crore. The bridge is part of a proposed road network project. The Chennoor-Cheriyamthuruthu bridge entailing an investment of Rs. 20.50 crore was also cleared by the executive committee meeting. Compensation package Emergency steps will be taken for the construction of the approach road of Kadamakkudy-Chathanad bridge. A compensation package will be given to those surrendering land for the project. The meeting decided to grant those getting displaced from their land and house as part of the project with four cents and other additional benefits over and above the compensation. The Coastal Development Corporation had been entrusted with constructing 18 groynes on the 24-kilometre stretch between Vypeen and Pallippuram at a cost of Rs. 25 crore. A Rs. 7.24-crore project has been cleared for improving transportation in the third phase of road development in Mulavukad. Administrative sanction will be accorded to the construction of the 350-metre approach road of Moolampilly-Pizhala bridge and works will get under way in the first week of February.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/solution-in-sight-for-development-woes-of-kadamakudy-islands/article33689836.ece
29 January 2021||Kochi,KERALA||CPT to transform Willingdon Island into a tourism hub||With ferrying of hard cargo getting containerised and their shipment getting relocated to the container transshipment terminal at Vallarpadam, the Cochin Port Trust (CPT) would shortly engage a consultant to ready a master plan for transforming Willingdon Island into a tourism hub. The idea is to ready a long-term master plan, based on which funds can be sought from the Ministry of Tourism and other departments concerned. Mumbai and Goa ports have already progressed much in this regard and have readied ambitious tourism plans, said M. Beena, Chairperson of CPT. “The impending master plan will look into aspects like what needs to be done and what can be done to optimally use idling space on the island for tourism purpose. Small parcels of land have been let out on lease. A master plan will shed light on how best to develop vacant land that the port owns. Apart from the Ministry of Tourism, those which handle shipping and also culture could be roped in to help set up ventures to enliven vacant spaces on Willingdon Island and smaller tracts of land that the port owns in neighbouring islands and in mainland Ernakulam,” she said. On the priority that would be accorded for different arenas of tourism, port sources said the consultants, to identify whom expression of interest has been invited, would take a call on this aspect. Even transportation of wood is getting containerised, while oil carrier vessels do not call at Willingdon Island. This has opened up space in the isle, they added. Already, the port has earmarked land outside the cruise terminal to set up kiosks that sell curios and other items, near the cruise terminal on Willingdon Island. The pandemic has played spoilsport with cruise tourism, since over 50 cruise liners had called at Kochi in 2019-2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cpt-to-transform-willingdon-island-into-a-tourism-hub/article33689825.ece
29 January 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||A crime and a confession||A revelation by the key accused in the Elamakkara theft case solved the mystery behind the charred body found along the railway track near Pulleppady overbridge on Wednesday and unveiled the murder plot. Denoy Christo was picked up by the team probing the theft as a suspect by which time, the police had considerable information on the accused. When grilled about his co-accused on Wednesday, Denoy bluntly confessed to have murdered the second accused Joby the previous night. Shortly thereafter, it emerged that it was Joby’s body that was found in a charred state. Reportedly, Denoy’s over-enthusiasm, probably born out of anxiety, in his interactions with the handler of the dog squad that was brought to investigate the theft, brought him under the police radar in the first place. Among other things, he is known to have asked the handler how long after the crime the dogs would be able to pick up the trail. The police attribute multiple motives behind the alleged murder, including the fear that the victim may expose Denoy as the brain behind the theft at the house of his own uncle. “Joby tried to pressure the third accused Sulu, who was in possession of the entire loot, to give part of it. It was also feared that Joby may have left behind fingerprints in the house that could bring the police to his doorsteps, and by extension, to those of others”. The police were able to recover Rs. 1.50 lakh and almost the entire loot except for a small part of it which was disposed of. The accused were reportedly waiting for an opportune moment to encash the stolen gold ornaments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-crime-and-a-confession/article33689832.ece
29 January 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Traco Cable renovates Irumpanam unit||Traco Cable Company Limited, a Kerala government enterprise, has renovated its unit at Irumpanam, Kochi, by installing new machinery worth Rs. 3 crore as part of the modernisation and expansion project. E.P Jayarajan, Minister for Industries, will inaugurate the renovated facility on Saturday. Anoop Jacob, MLA, will preside over the function. The company had used the Rs. 5 crore support given by the government to carry out its expansion plans. Of this, Rs. 3 crore was used at its Irumpanam unit, according to a release issued here. The Traco management hopes to bag more orders from other State electricity boards and from abroad through the initiative, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/traco-cable-renovates-irumpanam-unit/article33689857.ece
29 January 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||HC orders police protection for Water Metro work||The Kerala High Court has directed the police to take necessary steps to ensure that there is no threat to law and order at the site in Vypeen where the Water Metro terminal construction is on. Justice Anil K. Narendran passed the directive on a petition filed by the Marymatha Infrastructure Private Limited. The petitioner said that the company was executing the works of the Kochi Water Metro project. The entire work had to be completed by the second of February. The inauguration was scheduled for February 22. However, the work at the Vypeen site had come to a standstill because of the problems created by trade unions including the CITU and INTUC. The petitioner alleged that the union leaders were demanding engagement of their men in the construction work. They had also sought “nookukooli” (notional wage) if members of their unions could not be employed. They had indulged in violence and manhandled the site in-charge and supervisor of the construction works. Though a complaint had been lodged with the Vypeen police, no action had been taken. Unless the police provided protection, the company would not be able to complete the prestigious project. The court also directed the union leaders to file affidavits in response to the allegations of the petitioner. The court posted the petition for February 1 for further hearing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hc-orders-police-protection-for-water-metro-work/article33689828.ece
29 January 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Firm moves HC against termination of contract||The Kerala High Court on Thursday adjourned to January 29 the hearing on a writ petition by a company challenging the termination of its contract for construction of the Cochin Cancer Research Centre. The petition was filed by P and C Projects Pvt. Ltd., Erodey. According to it, the total prescribed period for completion of the project as per the agreement was 730 days from the date of handing over of the project site. The construction commenced on July 25, 2018, and was expected to be completed by July 23, 2020. However, several unexpected incidents, including the floods and COVID-19, had caused the delay in completing the project within the time period.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/firm-moves-hc-against-termination-of-contract/article33689829.ece
29 January 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||B2B portals to provide SMEs a global gateway||The Department of Industries, through an initiative of the Kerala Bureau of Industrial Promotion, has launched online platforms that will link the more than 1,40,000 micro, small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) in the State as well as the public sector undertakings in the State with businesses within the country and abroad. The portalswww.keralamarket.com,www.keralamarket.kerala. gov.inandwww.keralamarket.orgwill help businesses across the country and outside to interact with the MSMEs and PSUs in the State and conclude business transactions seamlessly, said an official of the Industries Department on Wednesday. The official said that the deals can be discussed online, products can be seen and deals finalised through the portals though no payment gateway has been established. The global reach of the Kerala MSMEs has been achieved with the aim of helping enterprises overcome the wide-ranging impact of COVID-19 pandemic. Most of the small enterprises in the State are not in a position to reach out to the wider market because of their limitations. The COVID-19 pandemic has made the situation much worse over the last one year. The MSMEs have been asked to register with the websites through the various District Industries Centres. The department official said that around 1,000 units had already registered for the facility and more are expected to follow suit. The units that have registered make a cross-section of the industrial undertakings in the State. The SME scene is dominated by agri and food processing companies, said the Industries Department official. It is estimated that there are more than 18,000 units in the agri-food sector in the State. The emphasis given by the State government to food production and processing under the ‘Subhiksha Keralam’ programme in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic has accelerated the process of more units coming up in the sector. The official also said that according to a rough estimate around 63,500 SMEs had been registered over the last 4.5 years till the end of December last year. Of these, more than 12,000 are in the agri-food processing sector. The SMEs are estimated to employ around seven lakh people. The number includes the additional 2.23 lakh jobs created over the last 4.5 years, the official added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/b2b-portals-to-provide-smes-a-global-gateway/article33689826.ece
29 January 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Sanskrit varsity to launch course in museology||Sree Sankaracharya University of Sanskrit has initiated an academic programme that would help mould trained professionals in museology. The postgraduate programme in museum studies will be launched this academic year. The M.A. course is among the new generation programmes approved by the government for 2020-21. “It will be the first-of-its-kind course in South India. Some of the institutions currently offering the postgraduate programme in the country include M.S. University, Baroda; Calcutta University; Benares Hindu University, Varanasi; Aligarh Muslim University; and National Museum Institute, New Delhi,” said B. Venugopal, academic coordinator and former Director of the National Museum of Natural History, New Delhi, and Indian Museum, Kolkata. Increasing demand Stating that there was an increasing demand for trained professionals in museology, Dr. Venugopal said that the course would provide a chance for those employed at the museums in the State to receive concrete training in the field. “Even those who wished to pursue such a course had remained reluctant as they had to travel out of the State. The academic programme will expose them to a wide variety of topics associated with museology, besides receiving hands-on training in museum design and management,” he said. The authorities will take steps to ensure effective links with initiatives like the Muziris Heritage projects and the Kochi Muziris Biennale to help students get exposure to the best practices in museology and heritage. Networking with leading museums in the country, including the National Museum, National Museum of Natural History, Indian Museum, as well as with leading museology departments of universities at Aligarh, Baroda and Kolkata will be additional benefits of the course, according to the authorities. The intake for the programme is 20. The Board of Studies includes experts from across the country. The course is likely to be launched by the second week of February under the Centre for Museum Studies. The varsity Syndicate is expected to soon clear the formalities ahead of rolling out the course.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sanskrit-varsity-to-launch-course-in-museology/article33689799.ece
29 January 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Train to be terminated at Shoranur||Train No. 06306 Kannur–Ernakulam Junction daily special will be short terminated at Shoranur Jn. on January 29, 30 and 31 to facilitate track maintenance in Vallathol Nagar–Wadakkancheri section. The train will remain cancelled between Shoranur Jn. and Ernakulam Jn. from January 29 to 31.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/train-to-be-terminated-at-shoranur/article33689822.ece
29 January 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Modern marine ambulances launched||Two modern marine ambulances that are aimed at providing swift emergency response to fishermen in distress in the seas were launched here on Thursday by Minister for Fisheries and Harbour Engineering J Mercykutty Amma. The ambulances named Pratyasa and Karunya follow the first one Prateeksha which had been launched by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan in August 2020. They will operate from Thiruvananthapuram, Kochi and Kozhikode. Costing Rs. 6.08 crore apiece, they were built by Cochin Shipyard Ltd (CSL). These 23-m-long vessels can simultaneously provide emergency medical care for up to 10 passengers. Having 700 HP engines, they can attain up to 14-knots speed. Apart from medicines, they would have paramedics, rescue staff and a mortuary on board. City-based KSINC would provide manpower to steer the vessels. A sum of Rs. 7.36 crore had been availed of from the Chief Minister’s relief fund as part of the Okhi rehabilitation package while Rs. 2 crore was sourced from the Fisheries’ Plan fund. The BPCL pooled in their CSR funds as the price of a vessel and CSL half the cost of a vessel. The city-based CIFT provided requisite technical help. In addition, the Fisheries Department would impart training to 10 fishers in deep-sea fishing and provide them boats. An agreement to construct vessels for the purpose will be inked in February. This is in view of the shortfall in fish catch. The Minister also inaugurated training for these fishers. Those who were present include Hibi Eden, MP; MLAs from the district, Fisheries Director C.A. Latha and Chairman of CSL Madhu S. Nair.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-modern-marine-ambulances-launched/article33689824.ece
29 January 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Union Minister inaugurates Fit India Week||Kiren Rijiju, Union Minister for Sports, inaugurated the “Fit India School Week” campaign at Kendriya Vidyalaya 2 at the Naval Base in a virtual event. Students gave a live online demonstration of various fitness activities on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/union-minister-inaugurates-fit-india-week/article33689827.ece
29 January 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Ernakulam reports 784 new cases||A total of 784 people tested positive for SARS-CoV2 in the district on Thursday. Five of these were health workers. As many as 33 new cases were reported from Maradu while Thrikkakara accounted for 29, Elanji 26, Cheranalloor 24, Thurvaur 22, Kavalangad 21, and Thripunithura 20 cases. There were 792 recoveries. The district had a cumulative case load of 10,873 as on Thursday. A fresh set of 7,427 samples were sent for testing on the day. In all, 3,145 health workers received their first dose of COVID-19 vaccine on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ernakulam-reports-784-new-cases/article33689830.ece
29 January 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Chakyarkoothu at TDM Hall||After a gap of almost a year, the Bank Employees Arts Movement Ernakulam (BEAME) is organising an event, a Chakyarkoothu recital by Margi Madhu, in collaboration with Ernakulam Karayogam at TDM Hall on January 30 at 6 p.m. “Angada doothu” is the story being staged. The event will be held in compliance with COVID-19 protocols, the organisers said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/chakyarkoothu-at-tdm-hall/article33689833.ece
29 January 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||HC directive to issue orders in prescribed format||The Kerala High Court has directed that ‘Order of Prior Recognition’ — under the terms of Rule 14 of the Kerala Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education Rules, 2011, and as per the Right to Information Act — be issued by the Deputy Directors of Education in Form No.II, as appended to the Rules, to schools seeking affiliation to the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hc-directive-to-issue-orders-in-prescribed-format/article33689842.ece
29 January 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||New cyclone shelter at Thazhava||The multi-purpose cyclone shelter at Thazhava is fully equipped to face any contingency, Revenue Minister E. Chandrasekharan has said. Inaugurating the project here on Thursday, he added that the government had conceived shelters with all facilities for evacuating persons living in areas vulnerable to natural calamities such as cyclones. 10 km off coastline Relief camps were usually opened in schools during calamities and such shelters would ensure that regular school days were not affected, he said. The shelter will function under the supervision of District Collector while the local body will be in charge of the management. The shelter at Thazhava panchayat, situated 10 km off the coastline in government land, can accommodate around 1,000 persons at a time. The 3.4-crore three-storey shelter completed under National Cyclone Risk Mitigation Project (NCRMP) has a large kitchen and dining hall. Facilities There are separate rooms, toilets and other facilities for men, women, children and differently abled persons. A shelter management committee, including local body heads, will handle the daily management of the multi-purpose structure during non-emergency situations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-cyclone-shelter-at-thazhava/article33689889.ece
29 January 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||As case graph rises, Kollam steps up caution||With the district reporting a rise in new COVID-19 cases, the authorities have decided to declare more micro-containment zones as per government instructions. A decision was taken at a COVID-19 review meeting of the District Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) chaired by District Collector B. Abdul Nasar on Thursday. The number of COVID-19 first-line treatment centres (FLTC) will be increased and officials will ensure the compliance of COVID-19 protocols and break-the-chain norms. Health, Revenue, Police and Local Self-Government departments will intensify preventive measures while more restrictions will be imposed on all tourist destinations in the district. The Health Department had issued new guidelines for Munroe Thuruthu after a spike in cases last week. Persons who work in tourism sector, including canoe operations, have been instructed to take monthly antigen tests following the surge in cases. While the number of cases has been going up in some panchayats, students testing positive has become another concern for the authorities. It was also decided in the meeting to step up surveillance at festival areas, weddings and shopping centres. Destitute homes The Health Department will conduct regular visits and awareness programmes at old-age homes and shelters for destitute. Since several cases have been reported from some destitute homes in the district, preventive measures to curb further spread will be taken.  More restrictions will be imposed on all tourist destinations in the district||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/as-case-graph-rises-kollam-steps-up-caution/article33689885.ece
29 January 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||685 test positive in Kollam||Kollam district reported 685 new COVID-19 cases and 547 recoveries on Thursday. Those who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 include 679 cases of local contact, three NRIs, two persons with no known source and one health worker. The district currently has 5,657 active cases. In Kottayam, 522 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2, of whom 514 persons, including two health workers, contracted the virus through local contact. Kottayam’s active case laod is 6,973 cases. The authorities have opened 16 more COVID-19 vaccination centres, taking the total number of centres to 35. As on Thursday, 6,398 persons in Kottayam have been vaccinated. As many as 452 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Pathanamthitta on Thursday. Of the new cases, 438 persons contracted the virus through local contact and among these, the contact source of 29 cases were yet to be identified. The disease claimed four more lives in the district. With 417 recoveries during the day, the district currently has 5,251 active cases. 432 in Alappuzha Alappuzha logged 432 COVID-19 cases and two deaths related to the infection. The new cases include 426 patients who contracted the disease through local contact. In the district, 391 people recovered from the disease. The active COVID-19 caseload stands at 4,399.  (With inputs from Pathanamthitta, Kottayam, and Alappuzha bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/685-test-positive-in-kollam/article33689887.ece
29 January 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||ITI invites applications||Government ITI, Kulathupuzha, has invited applications for fitter (matric) and plumber (non-matric) trades for the 2020-21 academic year. Application form is available at RPL Estate, Kulathupuzha, and Government ITI, Elamadu. The last date for accepting applications is February 5. Contact 0474 2671715.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/iti-invites-applications/article33689881.ece
29 January 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Man killed in accident||Rajesh, 35, was killed after being run over by a private bus near the Kottayam market on Thursday. The accident occurred around 9 a.m. He was standing on the roadside when he lost balance and came under the vehicle. A case has been registered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-killed-in-accident/article33689884.ece
29 January 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Services at one’s fingertips through ‘Nammude Kozhikode’||Want to raise a complaint over an overflowing drainage or a pothole-filled road in your area? You may not have to wait endlessly in the corridors of a government office any more to meet an official to sort out the issue. The Kozhikode district administration is all set to launch ‘Nammude Kozhikode’, a citizen-centric initiative to raise complaints over civic issues and ensure government services at one’s fingertips. The project also envisages greater public participation in various ongoing and new schemes for different sections of society as well, District Collector Seeram Sambasiva Rao told the media here on Thursday. Mr. Rao said the project has three components: citizen-centric governance, citizen participation, and co-creation of futuristic Kozhikode. A web application, to be made available on Google Play store, and a web portal will be launched soon to enable the project. The application will have details about various welfare schemes and projects. Anyone can raise complaints over civic issues, fix appointments with officials and public service providers — direct meeting, video conferencing, or phone calls. People can cite violations of rules, get emergency health services, disaster-related alerts, and public transport services. Details about employment services, tourism-related services, important news about the district, and facilities for internship and volunteer service with government departments too will be made available. Photos and videos can be uploaded onto the website or the app. An SOS button will be available for women to file harassment complaints. Mr. Rao said the project would also help people participate in various government projects, as they would be able to send across their responses. It will also help devise more pro-people schemes and communicate with government departments. He said it would help create a sustainable model for the futuristic development of Kozhikode. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan will launch the project online at 6 p.m. on Saturday. Ministers T.P. Ramakrishnan and A.K. Saseendran, and MLAs and MPs from the district will attend the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/services-at-ones-fingertips-through-nammude-kozhikode/article33689807.ece
29 January 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Master plan submitted for Calicut airport expansion||M.K.Raghavan, Kozhikode MP, has submitted an alternative master plan to the Airports Authority of India (AAI) chairman Arvind Singh for development of the Calicut Airport. He presented the master plan during a special meeting to chalk out a plan for the long-pending expansion of the airport. AAI member (operations) Indrakanti Narasimha Murthy, member (planning) Anil Kumar Pathak, member (air navigation services) Vineet Gulati, and other senior officials took part in the meeting. As a follow-up to the meeting, the AAI will hold talks with the officials of the Directorate General of Civil Aviation, the regulatory body of civil aviation in the country. The master plan was prepared by experts in the aviation field and the faculty of the National Institute of Technology-Calicut (NIT-C), Mr. Raghavan said. As per the plan, the length of the existing runway of 2,700 metres, the shortest of the four airports in the State, could be increased to 3,400 metres if the AAI utilised 19.46 acres of land in its possession and acquired another 43.11 acres. Such a step would resolve the issues of wide-bodied aircraft now being barred from operating services to the airport. The cargo factor that affected the trade and commerce sector, could also be solved. Also, a 420-metre extension of the approach lighting system could be made, he said. Suggestions have been made to revamp the airport apron for parking aircraft in a phased manner. By using the spaces judiciously and shifting some departments, new area for the construction of the apron so as to park 33 planes, including 14 wide-bodied aircraft, could be created, he said. Mr. Raghavan said that automated car parking could be facilitated in front of the existing terminal. However, this would also need acquisition of land.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/master-plan-submitted-for-calicut-airport-expansion/article33689803.ece
29 January 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||A host of initiatives lined up to be launched||Udayam, a scheme for the rehabilitation of destitute people; Enabling Kozhikode, a project to help differently-abled persons, and Cradle, a comprehensive child development project, are some of the initiatives under ‘Nammude Kozhikode’. District Collector Seeram Sambasiva Rao said on Thursday that Happy Hill, a project aimed at improving conditions at welfare homes, development of Government Mental Health Centre, Kuthiravattam, Suphalam, which aims at planting of fruit-bearing trees, Mission Thelineer to improve the condition of water resources, Mission Clean Beach to clean sea shores, and Arogya Jwala, a scheme aimed at strengthening ward-level health groups to arrest lifestyle diseases are some other projects. There are also campaigns to ensure safe food, safe public toilets, safe roads, quit smoking, and create awareness on cancer and other diseases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-host-of-initiatives-lined-up-to-be-launched/article33689805.ece
29 January 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Academics cite flaws in interview at John Mathai Centre||A group of academics have alleged that the interview for the posts of assistant professors in the department of economics at Calicut University’s Dr. John Mathai Centre at Thrissur, held recently, was flawed. In a letter to Syndicate members, the 20 academics, who applied for the posts, claimed that the subject expert panel was constituted by faculty members from various universities in Kerala whose academic credentials were not better than many of the participants of the interview. Allegations raised The panel lacked scientific rigour, and it did not have experts on economics from eminent institutions in the State such as the Centre for Development Studies, and the Gulati Institute for Finance and Taxation, Thiruvananthapuram, Indian Institute of Management, Kozhikode, and the Indian Institute of Technology, Palakkad. The interview was held on January 21, 22, and 23. The letter claimed that one of the participants had completed her PhD dissertation under the supervision of a senior academic, who was a subject expert on the interview board. Nepotism charge This was a clear sign of nepotism. Also, some panel members were fixated on bookish questions while making fun of most candidates and harassing them. It was also alleged that the subject expert panel hardly asked any questions about the research capabilities of the candidates, their publications, or their research projects or teaching experience, which are essential as per University Grants Commission guidelines. Besides, the current head of the department of economics is an assistant professor, but participated in the interview to choose assistant professors. This is a violation of norms, the academics alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/academics-point-to-flaws-in-interview-at-john-mathai-centre/article33689804.ece
29 January 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Interaction with members of film cast, crew||Red Youngs Vellimadukunnu is organising an interaction with the members of cast and crew of the much-appreciated Malayalam movie “The Great Indian Kitchen” here on Friday. A release said that the event would be held at 4 p.m. at the Kozhikode Town Hall. Theatre and cultural activists from the district would be present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/interaction-with-members-of-film-cast-crew/article33689809.ece
29 January 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Lapses alleged in distance education course||A group of persons, who had enrolled for M.Sc. Counselling Psychology offered under the distance education mode by Calicut University, have alleged lapses in the evaluation of their answer scripts, due to which, they claimed, they were yet to clear the course even six years after joining the course. Suresh Thonnakkal, who is among the 120 persons who had enrolled for the course in 2015, told the media on Thursday that the withdrawal of recognition for study centres during the middle of the academic sessions by the University Grants Commission was a bolt from the blue. Later, the School of Distance Education took over the course. By the time they completed the course, five years had passed. Some of the academic exercises had to be redone. Forty students dropped out of the course by the sixth year, and of them, only 11 students cleared the first and second semesters. Mr. Thonnakkal alleged that the Vice-Chancellors who were at the helm of affairs during the period had ignored their plight.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/lapses-alleged-in-distance-education-course/article33689810.ece
29 January 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Workshops to be held for madrasa teachers||Kerala Madrasa Teachers’ Welfare Board is conducting workshops for madrasa teachers on child psychology, child rights laws, and various schemes of the State government. Minister for Higher Education and Minority Affairs K.T. Jaleel will open a training session ahead of this here at Hotel Calicut Tower here at 10 a.m. on January 30.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/workshops-to-be-held-for-madrasa-teachers/article33689808.ece
29 January 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Active cases inch close to 8,000 in Kozhikode||The active COVID-19 case load from Kozhikode district reached 7,920 on Thursday when 584 fresh cases were reported from the district. According to the District Medical Officer, there were 569 locally acquired infections and the source of 13 others was not known. Local transmission Kozhikode Corporation accounted for 135 of the local cases of transmission, Koduvally 32, Kakkodi 27, and Thamarassery 20. As many as 5,393 samples were tested and the daily test positivity rate was 10.82%. There were 610 recoveries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/active-cases-inch-close-to-8000-in-kozhikode/article33689815.ece
29 January 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||6 PHCs to be upgraded in Pathanamthitta||In a major boost to the health sector in the district, six more primary health centres (PHCs) will soon be upgraded into the status of family health centres (FHCs). With this, the total number of FHCs in the district will be 22. The programme, being initiated under the 100 days programme of the State government, envisages offering outpatient service from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m., specialty clinics for breathing difficulties and depression, e-health programme and teleconsultation, besides ensuring the services of three doctors and four staff nurses. The PHCs at Mylapra, Naranamoozhi, Telliyoor, Kuttoor, Kaviyoor, and Seethathodu have been identified for upgrading. The upgraded centres will make use of the e-Health system, which has the health-related information of the entire population in their respective locations. The opening of the telecommunication system will ensure the service of expert doctors to people in remote areas. The authorities will expend Rs. 15 lakh from the State Plan Fund or National Health Mission Fund and the rest, from the local self-government institutions for each of these centres. Hospital inauguration Meanwhile, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan is slated to inaugurate the EMS Cooperative Hospital at Elanthur on Friday. Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac is slated to launch the hospital laboratory. Health Minister K.K. Shylaja will open the operation theatre, while Anto Antony, MP, will launch the intensive care unit. The authorities are on the final stages of opening a new outpatient facility at the Pathanamthitta General Hospital at a cost of Rs. 1 crore.  New status for PHCs at Mylapra, Naranamoozhi, Telliyoor, Kuttoor, Kaviyoor, and Seethathodu||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/6-phcs-to-be-upgraded-in-pathanamthitta/article33689883.ece
29 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||LED forms 60% of street lights||The city Corporation has replaced as much as 60% of the street lights in the city with LED lights, according to information provided by the civic body’s engineering wing. The replacement of the entire street lighting system in the city with LED lights has been happening in a phased manner, ever since the process began two years ago. According to Corporation officials, the city currently has more than 90,000 street lights, out of which around 57,000 have now been replaced with LED lights. In addition to this, around 5,000 sodium vapour lamps have also been replaced.  Non-working ones “Right now, we are replacing those street lights that are not working with LED lights. So, the distribution may not be equal across all wards. This is the only way possible, as replacing tube lights that are in working condition will lead to losses. Selling the old tube lights at scrap value also is not an option,” said an official of the engineering wing. The Corporation has managed considerable savings on power bills with the partial shift to LED lights. But, there has been a shortage of enough lights to replace the ones that have fallen into disuse for some time. From 2014 The civic body had first planned for the shift to LED street lights way back in 2014. This period has witnessed several rounds of discussions, postponements, and controversies over the street light project, which was perpetually caught in the processing stage. The initial plan was to hire the services of a private firm to replace all the street lights in the city in one go. Although Expression of Interest was issued and several companies responded, the move did not take off. Though there was a plan to hire SIDCO for the project later, even that was dropped. Now, the Corporation is continuing with the option of depositing money with the Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB), which replaces the street lights in phases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/led-forms-60-of-street-lights/article33690029.ece
29 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||State eyes bigger pie in Budget||With the Union Budget expected to give a push for new trains and Assembly elections round the corner, high hopes prevail among rail users for enhanced allocation for the railway network of the State. Kerala, which was given only a paltry allocation for prioritised projects such as doubling of the 18-km Ettumanur-Kottayam and Kottayam-Chingavanam corridors, 86.56-km Thiruvananthapuram Central-Kanyakumari, and coaching terminal at Nemom in the 2020-2021 Budget, is hoping for more allocation this time from Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman. The State is pitching for the 529.45-km semi-high speed railway corridor SilverLine from Kochuveli to Kasaragod and Sabari Railway to bring Sabarimala onto the railway map. The detailed project report (DPR) of the SilverLine and notification for cost-sharing of the Sabari Rail are with the Centre. But Railways are of the view that the thrust should be on completing the doubling work of the railway line via Kottayam and Alappuzha and improving the terminal facilities to bring more long-distance trains to the State. Doubling work Funds have been assured by Railways for completing the doubling of the 18-km Ambalappuzha-Haripad stretch and 18-km Ettumanur-Chingavanam stretch by 2022. A sum of Rs. 120 crore is needed for completing the works. The doubling of the 18-km Ettumanur-Chingavanam stretch will enable the much-needed thorough 620-km railway line from Mangaluru Junction to Thiruvananthapuram Central. The doubling of the railway line via Alappuzha is to be completed by 2024. The doubling of the 69-km Ernakulam-Ambalappuzha stretch and the 86.56-km Thiruvananthapuram Central-Kanyakumari have figured in Vision 2024 of Railways. A sum of Rs. 3,000 crore is needed for both the works and the sum had been assured in next three years, sources said. The State needs a minimum of Rs. 3,500 crore for completing the much-needed doubling works of the railway line. Chances for allocation for the Rs. 116-crore coaching terminal at Nemom is doubtful.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-eyes-bigger-pie-in-budget/article33689855.ece
29 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Pro VC to inquire mark tampering allegation||University of Kerala Pro-Vice Chancellor P.P. Ajayakumar will lead an inquiry into the alleged tampering of marks on an examination software. The Syndicate, which adopted the decision during its meeting on Wednesday, also ratified the order issued by Vice Chancellor V.P. Mahadevan Pillai to place section officer Vinod V. under suspension, pending inquiry. The Syndicate also resolved to issue a show-case notice to the suspended official. The official has been accused of wilfully tampering with the marks obtained by a 2015-18 batch student when he appeared for supplementary examinations in 2019. Controller of Examinations N. Gopakumar will assist Dr. Ajayakumar in scrutinising the files that had been handled by the official. The university had submitted a formal complaint to the police a few days ago seeking investigation, considering the serious nature of the suspected crime.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pro-vc-to-inquire-mark-tampering-allegation/article33690027.ece
29 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Capital registers 408 cases||The district recorded 408 COVID-19 cases and 270 recoveries on Thursday. With this, the active caseload touched 4,473. While 5,003 COVID-19 tests were conducted in 24 hours, the test positivity rate stood at 8.15. Among the fresh cases on the day, the source of infection is unknown in 86 cases, while there were six imported cases. Three health-care workers also tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. The district administration placed 1,364 people under quarantine, while 1,722 were permitted to conclude self-isolation as they displayed no symptoms of the disease. Quarantine Currently, 21,766 people are under quarantine in their homes and 55 in various institutions, a statement here said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/capital-registers-408-cases/article33690035.ece
29 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Param Vishisht Seva Medal for SAC chief||Air Marshal Amit Tiwari, AVSM VM, Air Officer Commanding-in-Chief, Southern Air Command (SAC), has been awarded Param Vishisht Seva Medal (PVSM). The honour is conferred on him in recognition of distinguished service of the most exceptional order and life time achievements in the service of the nation and is the highest peacetime military award. Air Vice Marshal S. Ramakrishnan, Assistant Chief of the Air Staff (Maintenance Plans) at Air Headquarters, has been awarded the Ati Vishisht Seva Medal (AVSM) for meritorious service. He is a native of the capital and an alumnus of the College of Engineering Thiruvananthapuram.  Group Captain Kesavan Nair Harisankar of Southern Air Command has been awarded Vishisht Seva Medal (VSM) in recognition of distinguished service of high order and life time achievements in the service of the nation. He also hails from the city and is now Command Engineering Officer at Southern Air Command.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/param-vishisht-seva-medal-for-sac-chief/article33690025.ece
29 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Stress on scientific practices for growth of dairy sector||Dairy farmers need to have access to cattle with high genetic potential, good quality fodder and mechanisation for the accelerated development of the State’s dairy sector, experts said on Thursday. The views were expressed at a thematic session on ‘Productivity of milch cattle in Kerala’ organised by the State Planning Board as a prelude to the ‘Kerala Looks Ahead’ international conference and consultation planned from February 1 to 3. Scientific management practices in different aspects of the dairy sector, including the genetic make-up of the cattle population, nutritional aspects and mechanisation to cut down labour costs, is key to increasing productivity and achieving self-sufficiency in milk production in the State, M. R. Saseendranath, Vice Chancellor, Kerala Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (KVASU), who chaired the session, said. Jose James, managing director, Kerala Livestock Development Board (KLDB), spoke on ‘Milk productivity trends of bovines in Kerala.’ He called for the adoption of new, implementable genetic technologies that can further accelerate productivity. Sudheer Babu, Professor and Head, College of Dairy Science and technology, KVASU, spoke on ‘Strategies for attaining sufficiency in milk production.’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/stress-on-scientific-practices-for-growth-of-dairy-sector/article33690028.ece
29 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Lockdown hobby brings national recognition for Class 10 student||The lockdown inspired the creative spirit in many people. For D. Beneetta Varghese, it marked a return to nature. Cooped up at home, this class 10 student of St. Joseph’s Higher Secondary School, Kallody, Wayanad, turned her attention to making toys from indigenous materials. Her efforts saw her win the first prize in toy-making using indigenous materials at the national Kala Utsav organised by the Union Ministry of Education. Beneetta made nearly 40 toys using locally available raw material such as bamboo; the leaves, midriff and broad base of coconut palm fronds and young nut (machinga); areca palm; plantain stem: and so on during the two days of the national competition. Her interest in crafts and making toys for her young cousins was what led her to take up toy-making in earnest during the lockdown. Photos posted on WhatsApp status resulted in encouraging phone calls from teachers and the school head teacher. It was then that she heard of the Kala Utsav and decided to take part in it. Block resource centre, district, and State-level competitions followed, and then it was time for the national event. Beneeta who could not use bamboo in the earlier rounds owing to limited time found two days enough to use her knife. Other winners C.S. Anand, a Plus One student of Government Higher Secondary School, Kongorpilly, Ernakulam, won the first prize in classical dance (boys) and Akshaya Shameer, a Plus One student at Government Higher Secondary School, Azhikode, Kannur, won the first position in painting (watercolour) in the Kala Utsav. Two students also bagged the third prize at the national level — S. Gopikrishnan, a class 12 student of St. Michael’s Anglo-Indian Higher Secondary School, Burnassery, Kannur, in classical music vocal (boys), and Amritha V.K. of Sacred Heart Higher Secondary School, Thalassery, in vocal music traditional folk (girls). Eighteen students from public schools represented the State in the national event. Arrangements were made for live telecast of the competition and interactions with the participants in Kozhikode. Online event The State-level rounds were organised online by the Samagra Shiksha, Kerala, adhering to the COVID-19 protocols. Competitions were held in all block resource centres by recording the performances of the students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/lockdown-hobby-brings-national-recognition-for-class-10-student/article33690032.ece
29 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Two women arrested on charge of theft||Two women who hail from Rameswaram in Tamil Nadu were arrested by the Medical College police for alleged theft of valuables of a fellow passenger on a bus. The accused were identified as Easwari, 25, and Muthumari, 24, who are siblings. They have been arrested in connection with the theft of the belongings of a woman while alighting from a bus at a bus stop in Pongumoodu on January 26. The duo apparently followed the complainant outside the bus and allegedly stole a purse from her bag amid a slight rush at the bus stop. The purse contained cash amounting to Rs. 17,300, a gold pendant (‘elas’), and a watch. Soon after realising that her purse was missing, the complainant alerted the police who found the accused duo nearby under suspicious circumstances. The stolen valuables were found in their possession. Another theft They purportedly confessed to have stolen the belongings of another person at the same spot on January 13.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-women-arrested-on-charge-of-theft/article33690036.ece
29 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||EICL to pay interim relief to employees||The management of English Indian Clays Ltd. (EICL) has announced that the company is prepared to provide an interim payment to the workforce as advance. Permanent employees would be paid Rs. 25,000 and contractual employees, Rs. 10,000, in two instalments, the EICL management said in a statement on Thursday. “The trade unions had been demanding an interim payment to the employees at Veli due to the ongoing suspension in work, owing to the low market demand and loss of market share. This decision was taken after the suggestions put forward by the Industries Minister, Labour Minister and the Cooperation Minister at the discussion that took place on January 20,” the statement said. The company said it expected to sell sand tailings at Veli at the earliest to manage funds for disbursing the money to the workers. The management also expressed hope that the market might start showing signs of revival by July or August. The employees had launched an indefinite stir after the company downed its shutters in August last year citing losses and acute shortage of raw material. Although operations were partially restarted at the Thonnackal unit, the Kochu Veli unit remains shut. On January 2, a contractual employee was found hanging on the company premises, triggering a fresh wave of protests.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/eicl-to-pay-interim-relief-to-employees/article33690042.ece
29 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Push for TransGrid 2.0 project in Palakkad||The Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) has cleared the detailed project report (DPR) for the Valluvanad lines and substation package under the Rs. 10,000-crore TransGrid 2.0 project aimed at strengthening the internal power transmission network in the State. The Rs. 184.33-crore package has been designed in two phases to ensure minimum supply interruption. The construction of a 220 kV gas-insulated substation at Vennakkara in Palakkad and a 220/110 kV multi circuit multi voltage (MCMV) line from Kuzhalmannam to Vennakkara will be taken up in the Rs. 82.31-crore first phase of the package. These works are to be executed over a period of 18 months. The construction of a 220/110 kV MCMV line from Vennakkara to Mannarkkad at a cost of Rs. 100.6 crore is in Phase II of the package. The upgrading of a portion of the 100 kV line from Puthupariyaram to Malampuzha also will be taken up at a cost of Rs. 1.42 crore in the second phase. A meeting of the full-time directors of the KSEB cleared the DPR submitted by the Chief Engineer (TransGrid). The meeting also decided to submit the DPR for funding through the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB). The KSEB has rolled out Transgrid 2.0 in a bid to strengthen the capacity of the internal transmission network in the State. This involves upgrading the existing 220 kV lines and setting up a number of new substations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/push-for-transgrid-20-project-in-palakkad/article33689795.ece
29 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Traffic curbs on Vazhuthacaud road||The City police began regulation of vehicular flow along the Vellayambalam-Vazhuthacaud road on Thursday to facilitate ongoing work on the sewerage system from the Althara Devi temple to Udarasiromani Road. According to Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order, Traffic) Divya V. Gopinath, the restrictions that will continue until February 20 will also be in effect on Manaveeyam Veedhi. Vehicles coming from Peroorkada and headed towards Vazhuthacaud will be required to divert at Vellayambalam and proceed either along Museum, Nandavanam, and Bakery or Sasthamangalam, Edappazhinji and SMC. Parking will not be permitted along the roads until the completion of the work being undertaken by the Kerala Water Authority.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/traffic-curbs-on-vazhuthacaud-road/article33690037.ece
29 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||5,771 new cases, test positivity dips to 9.87%||Kerala reported 5,771 new COVID-19 cases on Thursday when 58,472 samples were tested in the past 24 hours, taking the cumulative case burden of the State to 9,11,362 cases. The test positivity rate on the day was 9.87%. With 5,594 recoveries also reported on Thursday, the active case pool in the State now was 72,392. The cumulative recoveries reported in the State stood at 8,35,046. On Thursday, the Health Department added another 19 deaths which occurred in the State in the past few days to the official list of COVID fatalities, taking the toll to 3,682 deaths. Thiruvananthapuram reported six deaths, Thrissur four, Kollam three, Alappuzha two, while Kottayam, Kozhikode, Wayanad and Kannur reported one death each. The number of critically ill COVID patients being treated in ICUs in various hospitals across the State is 809, with 226 of them requiring ventilator support.  Ernakulam tops list Among the districts, Ernakulam continued to report the maximum number of new cases with 784 cases, while Kollam registered 685 cases, Kozhikode 584, Kottayam 522, Pathanamthitta 452, Alappuzha 432, Thrissur 424, Malappuram 413, Thiruvananthapuram 408, Idukki 279, Kannur 275, Palakkad 236, Wayanad 193, and Kasaragod 84.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/5771-new-cases-test-positivity-dips-to-987/article33689851.ece
29 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Pilgrim amenity centre at Vettucaud church||A Rs. 3-crore pilgrim amenity centre is coming up at the Madre de Deus Church, Vettucaud, here. The facility is part of Kerala Tourism’s Pilgrim Circuit, launched to promote pilgrim tourism by connecting various pilgrim centres in the State. Tourism Minister Kadakampally Surendran, in his address after laying the foundation stone for the centre, said the government had launched a string of projects in different parts of the State to step up infrastructural facilities for tourism. “This is for the first time that a government is taking initiatives for creating infrastructure facilities in places of worship. Madre de Deus Church has historical importance,” he said. In 18 months The construction of the pilgrim amenity centre will be taken up by Steel Industrials Kerala Limited (SILK) and it will be completed in 18 months. P. Bala Kiran, Director, Tourism; Sabu Jose, councillor, Vettucaud; and Fr. George Gomez, vicar of the parish, were present. Similar projects include those at Aniyoor, construction of auditoriums at Aliyavoor Siva Temple and Sri Durga Temple at Kallampally, Pilgrim Heritage Circuit at Kolathukara, development of destination facilities at Manvila, construction of amenity centres at Beemappally, St. Jude Pilgrim Centre at Vettinadu, Kusamuttam Temple, Chellamangalam Temple, Avukkulam Temple and Puthukkunnu CSI Church.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pilgrim-amenity-centre-at-vettucaud-church/article33690030.ece
29 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||CM to interact with students||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan will participate in an interactive session with students at Kerala University on February 6. Around 200 students selected from various affiliated colleges will take part in theCM@Campusprogramme. Vice Chancellor V.P. Mahadevan Pillai launched a website (www.keralauniversity.ac.in/cm@campus) for students to submit their suggestions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cm-to-interact-with-students/article33690023.ece
29 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||MoU for skill development centre||The State’s first entrepreneurship development centre is coming up at Angamaly. Kerala Institute for Entrepreneurship Development, under the Industries Department, and the Kerala Academy for Skills Excellence (KASE), under the Labour Department, will sign a memorandum of understanding in the presence of Minister for Industries E.P. Jayarajan and Minister for Labour T.P. Ramakrishnan on Friday. The centre will come up at Inkel Tower on the KASE campus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/entrepreneurship-development-centre-at-angamaly/article33689831.ece
29 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Telecast of Plus Two classes to end tomorrow||The telecast of Plus Two classes as part of the government’s First Bell digital classes on the KITE VICTERS channel will conclude on Saturday. Revision classes for Class 10 and Plus Two comprising two to four episodes (one episode of half-an-hour each) will be telecast from Sunday, KITE chief executive officer K. Anvar Sadath said. Some subjects may have two episodes, while others such as Mathematics will have four. On Sunday, two episodes will be telecast. From Monday, one episode of the revision class based on the focus areas will be telecast in the morning for both Class 10 and Plus Two. Classes as per episodes are available onfirstbell.kite.kerala.gov.in There is also a change in the schedule for the classes from Monday. The Kilikonchal classes for anganwadi students will be telecast from 11 a.m. Monday to Friday. Plus One students will have seven classes on these days. More classes will be telecast for Plus One students on Saturdays and Sundays.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/telecast-of-plus-two-classes-to-end-tomorrow/article33689856.ece
29 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Results published||The results of the scrutiny and revaluation of answer sheets of the DEd/ DElEd exam held in September 2020 have been published on www.keralapareekshabhavan.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/results-published/article33689813.ece
29 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Partial cancellation of train||Train 06306 Kannur–Ernakulam Junction daily special will be short-terminated at Shoranur Junction on January 29, 30, and 31 to facilitate track maintenance in the Vallathol Nagar-Wadakkancheri section. The train will remain partially cancelled between Shoranur Junction and Ernakulam Junction for three days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/partial-cancellation-of-train/article33689843.ece
29 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Govt. to issue bonds worth Rs. 2000 crore||The State government is issuing bonds worth Rs. 2,000 crore to mobilise funds for development projects. The bonds will be auctioned at the Mumbai Fort office of the Reserve Bank of India through the e-kuber platform on February 2. For details, visitwww.finance.kerala.gov.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/govt-to-issue-bonds-worth-rs-2000-crore/article33689848.ece
29 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Pic.mailed)-- PL ACCOMMODATE||Governor Arif Mohammed Khan on Thursday hailed Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala as a man of inimitable qualities who had risen from the ranks by virtue of his leadership capability. He was speaking after releasing a book titled Ramesh Chennithala: The path travelled . Major Archbishop of the Syro-Malankara Church Cardinal Mar Baselios Cleemis received the first copy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/picmailed-pl-accommodate/article33689850.ece
29 January 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||COVID vaccines gains of science: Governor||Governor Arif Mohammed Khan inaugurated the convocation ceremony of the Kerala University of Health Sciences (KUHS) on Thursday. The KUHS convocation programme is being held at a time when the country is going through the largest vaccination drive, the Governor said, inaugurating the ceremony online. Record time He said around 300 million people were expected to receive the vaccine before July. The two vaccines developed by scientists in a record time were great achievements of science. Health Minister K.K. Shylaja was the chief guest. Even at the time of the COVID-19 crisis, the KUHS could confer degrees to 800 graduates, she said. In all, 8,486 students from various colleges under the university were conferred degrees on Thursday. This included Medicine (3,986), Dental Science (1,485), Ayurveda (570), Homoeopathy (221), Siddha (24), Nursing (884), Pharmacy (670), and Allied Health Science (646). Rose Christy Jossy of the P.K.Das Institute of Medical Science, Palakkad, won the Dr. C.K. Jayaram Paniker Endowment Award. KUHS Vice Chancellor Mohanan Kunnummal and Pro Vice Chancellor C.P. Vijayan participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/covid-vaccines-gains-of-science-says-governor/article33689812.ece
29 January 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Law banning animals in circuses sought||The Animal Welfare Board of India (AWBI) has advised the Centre to pass a legislation banning animals in circuses. The recommendation comes on the heels of inspections conducted by the AWBI following orders of the Delhi High Court based on a petition filed by the People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) India. Acting on a directive of the Delhi High Court, the AWBI recently cancelled the performing animal registration certificates of five circuses and directed the respective State government to rescue and rehabilitate the animals. Notices issued The AWBI also issued show cause notices to two circuses for gross violations and discrepancies and directed eight circuses to submit papers related to their closure and to explain the whereabouts of animals. Eight of the 27 circuses registered with the AWBI are from Kerala or the owner is a Keralite. They are Great Rayman; Rajkamal; Great Bombay; Rambo (based in Pune but owner is a Keralite); Jumbo (two units); Amar, The Royal; and The Great Indian. In 2017, through an advisory to the Centre, the AWBI had recommended implementation of a strong legislation to end the use of animals in circuses for various reasons, including the cruelty inherent in the industry, legal violations, and the unworkable nature of the existing regulatory framework. In 2018, the Centre notified the draft Performing Animals (Registration) (Amendment) Rules, 2018 proposing to prohibit performance and exhibition of all animals in circuses. “We commend the AWBI for advising the Centre once again to ban the use of animals in circuses. PETA India calls for the ban on use of animals in circuses to be brought in as soon as possible,” says Manilal Valliyate, CEO, PETA India. Recent inspections conducted by the AWBI found that many circuses had closed long ago and some of them concealed their animals to avoid inspection. Financial crisis due to lack of public interest had forced many circuses to down shutters. The COVID-19 restrictions had worsened the condition. Of the 27 circuses registered with the AWBI between 2000 and 2010 holding 759 animals, only six are legal and functional now, and they collectively have 88 animals. An analysis by PETA India reveals that the dogs and horses were likely about two or three years old at the time of registration, so those still alive may have surpassed their retirement age and are thus unfit to be used for any work or performance.  We commend the AWBI for advising the Centre once again to ban the use of animals in circuses. PETA India calls for the ban on use of animals in circuses to be brought in as soon as possible Manilal Valliyate CEO, PETA India||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/law-banning-animals-in-circuses-sought/article33689792.ece
29 January 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Santhwana Sparsham adalats in Feb.||Santhwana Sparsham complaint redressal adalats will be held in the district on February 1, 2, and 4. The adalat for Thrissur taluk will be held at the Thrissur Town Hall on February 1. The Municipal Town Hall, Kunnamkulam, will be the venue for the adalat for Kunnamkulam, Thalappilly, and Chavakkad taluks on February 2. The adalat for Chalakudy, Kodungallur, and Mukundapuram taluks will be held at the Irinjalakuda Town Hall on February 4. Ministers from the district will hear complaints at the adalat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/santhwana-sparsham-adalats-in-feb/article33689994.ece
29 January 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Thrissur logs 424 cases||A total of 424 COVID-19 cases were reported in Thrissur on Thursday while 612 people recovered from the infection. There are 4,880 active cases in the district and 112 people from the district are undergoing treatment in hospitals in other districts. So far 86,159 cases have been reported from the district and 80,706 people have recovered.  236 in Palakkad As many as 236 people tested positive for COVID-19 in Palakkad district on Thursday. While 89 of them contracted the virus through direct contact, there were 139 cases without an identifiable source of infection. Officials said 148 persons recovered from the disease on Thursday. ( Inputs from Palakkad Staff Reporter )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/thrissur-logs-424-cases/article33689997.ece
29 January 2021||January 29 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Easing congestion||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/easing-congestion/article33689821.ece
29 January 2021||January 29 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Rush hour||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rush-hour/article33689798.ece
29 January 2021||January 29 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||A tradition of quality policing||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-tradition-of-quality-policing/article33689801.ece
29 January 2021||January 29 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||For better wages||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/for-better-wages/article33690041.ece
29 January 2021||January 29 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Festival charm||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/festival-charm/article33690044.ece
29 January 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Shivamogga blast: Karnataka police search Rayadurg area in Anantapur district||The Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh police jointly inspected the detonator magazines (storage points) in Rayadurg mandal of Anantapur district on Thursday following the death of six persons in a massive blast at Hunasodu on the outskirts of Shivamogga in Karnataka on January 21. Three of the six dead hailed from the Rayadurg area. ‘Unsafe manner’ The owner of the magazine at Jaggaluru in Davanagere district, from where detonators were taken to Shivamogga, maintains the Aduguppa magazine in Gummagatta mandal, and the Anantapur police found some stock kept in five vehicles reportedly in an unsafe manner. They seized the material and shifted them to Kurugunta Magazine near Anantapur city in the evening. Rayadurg Rural Circle Inspector Raja said since the material was kept in an unsafe manner, cases were booked against the person and material seized in the presence of Deputy Director Explosives Ravi Kumar and the local Tahsildar Venkata Chalapathi. Shivamogga Rural Circle Inspector Deepak was also present. The Karnataka police were also trying to locate the origin of the detonators that caused the explosion in the quarry there. Anantapur Superintendent of Police B. Satya Yesu Babu, meanwhile, ordered a safety audit of the magazines, and the Aduguppa magazine was inspected on Thursday. Explosive experts The police said the material had arrived at the magazine on Wednesday night. The police were waiting for explosive experts to arrive from Visakhapatnam to count and check if there was any excess or shortage in the quantity of explosive material permitted for storage and transportation. Aid handed over Rayadurg MLA Kapu Ramachandra Reddy had handed over Rs. 1 lakh each to the family members of the three victims from the Rayadurg Assembly constituency on behalf of the Bhrahmani Welfare Society. The dead were identified as Golla Pavan, 29, Mohammed Javed, 26, and Boya Raju 20.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/blast-karnataka-police-search-rayadurg-areas/article33689467.ece
29 January 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||CM likely to launch ration door delivery on February 1||The ‘Inti-Intiki Ration’ scheme, the door delivery of essential goods from ration shops, will be launched by Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy here on February 1. Anantapur Urban MLA Anantha Venkatarami Reddy and Municipal Commissioner P.V.V.S. Murthy inspected the Government Junior College grounds in the city for the conduct of a public meeting and launching the scheme through 974 delivery vans in the district. The preparations had begun for the Chief Minister’s visit, but according to the officials, the programme had not yet been officially finalised, and might even be cancelled. In all, 9,260 vehicles will supply the rations, including quality rice, at the doorstep of the cardholders in the State. In view of the first phase notification for the panchayat elections to be issued on Friday, the launch of the scheme hangs in the balance, though the vehicles were launched five days ago.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cm-likely-to-launch-ration-door-delivery-on-february-1/article33689976.ece
29 January 2021||ANANTAPUR / KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||ASHA workers demand job security, retirement benefits||The AHSA workers held a sit-in in front of the District Collector’s offices in Anantapur and Kurnool on Thursday, demanding that the government make their services permanent, apart from providing retirement benefits and improving their working conditions. The workers gathered in large numbers at the main gate of the Collectorate in Anantapur, blocking the vehicular traffic for some time. The police cleared one carriageway for the vehicles as more than 100 workers squatted on the road seeking solutions to their problems. Holding placards, they said the National Health Mission grants must be increased and they be given better pay scales. Centre of Indian Trade Union (CITU) district general secretary E.S. Venkatesh, ASHA Workers’ Association president Nagamani led a procession from Srikantham Circle in the city and reached the Collector’s office, demanding that the workers be recognised as government employees. Work pressure “Many ASHA workers, who have discharged the frontline duties during the COVID-19 pandemic, died of the virus. Their families must be given Rs. 50 lakh as insurance amount,” Mr. Venkatesh said. In Kurnool, the ASHA workers carried a banner displaying all their demands. They expressed concern over the increasing work pressure and wanted one ASHA Worker be appointed for each 1,000 population. Welfare schemes must be implemented for these frontline workers, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/asha-workers-demand-job-security-retirement-benefits/article33689962.ece
29 January 2021||ANANTAPUR / KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||SEC tour of three districts begins today||State Election Commissioner N. Ramesh Kumar will visit Anantapur, Kurnool, and Kadapa districts on Friday and Saturday. During his visit, Mr. Ramesh Kumar will hold meetings with the District Collectors, Joint Collectors I & II, DIG, Superintendents of Police, Additional SPs, DSPs, CEO, Deputy CEO, RDOs, and District Panchayat Officers. Mr. Ramesh Kumar will arrive in Anantapur at 12.30 p.m. from Vijayawada via Bengaluru. He will leave for Kurnool at 3 p.m. and hold a meeting there at 6 p.m. After an overnight stay, he will leave for Kadapa on Saturday. During a video-conference, District Collector Gandham Chandrudu, Joint Collectors Nishant Kumar and A. Siri, and SP B. Yesu Babu asked the polling officers to follow the instructions of the SEC. The polling and canvassing should take place in a peaceful manner, the District Collector told the officials. For the first phase, nominations will be accepted from Friday. In the Kadiri division of Anantapur district, 169 gram panchayats and 1,714 wards in 12 mandals will go to the polls in this phase. In Nandyal division of Kurnool district, 193 gram panchayats will go to polls. District Collector G. Veerapandian conducted a surprise check on the preparedness of the officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sec-tour-of-three-districts-begins-today/article33689972.ece
29 January 2021||ANTARVEDI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Seer inspects chariots of Antarvedi temple||Swatmanandendra Saraswathi of Visakha Saradha Peetham and B.C. Welfare Minister Ch. Venu Gopala Krishna on Thursday inspected the new and old chariots of Sri Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy temple at Antarvedi in East Godavari district. The police and endowments officials explained to him the security cover being provided to the old chariot that was destroyed in a fire accident last year. The Central Bureau of Investigation is investigating the chariot case. Speaking to reporters after performing puja at the temple, Mr. Swatmanandendra said that the new chariot was built in a record time with the support of artisans and the endowment authorities. He inspected the temple premises and enquired about the possibilities of developing new facilities, including a pond. Meanwhile, Mr. Venu Gopala Krishna and the endowments officials held talks on the preparedness for the annual Kalyanotsav that will be celebrated in February.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/seer-inspects-chariots-of-antarvedi-temple/article33689992.ece
29 January 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Family alleges harassment by gang of ‘occult practitioners’||Hardly four days after the brutal double murder of siblings reportedly by their parents in Madanapalle, yet another family of B. Kothakota, 150 km from here, complained to the police on Wednesday night that a ‘gang of occult practitioners’ had been extorting money from them for a year and deceived them into marry off their doctor daughter to a gang member, who later turned out to be a lorry driver. According to information, a private medical practitioner Krishna Reddy, 55, his wife Nirmala, 48, of B. Kothakota, and their two daughters were said to be suffering from some health and financial issues since a couple of years ago. Some youth from B. Kothakota and surrounding villages allegedly involved in occult practices had ganged up and lured the family to perform some rituals to overcome their troubles. They forced the couple to spend huge amounts for performing secret rituals at burial grounds and forested areas. Last year, they made the family perform the marriage of their 24-year-old elder daughter, who was preparing for medical PG entrance, with one of them, identified as Charan, claiming he was a software engineer. The couple allegedly gave a hefty dowry to the groom, who was later found to be a lorry driver. ‘Intimidated’ After realising the deceit, the family tried to approach the police several times, but were reportedly intimidated by the gang. They allegedly intensified their extortion during the COVID-19 pandemic. Following this, the elder daughter allegedly left home, purportedly for exam preparation. Deputy SP (Madanapalle) A. Ravi Manohar Achari said that based on the complaint from the couple, a case has been registered. The youth allegedly involved in the case are said to be absconding.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/family-alleges-harassment-by-gang-of-occult-practitioners/article33689990.ece
29 January 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Degree first year student goes missing||The police have formed a team to trace a degree final year student who went missing at Marjepalle in Gangavaram mandal near Palamaner on January 21. His parents lodged a police complaint on Thursday after they found a letter purportedly written by the student, Ganesh (20), before he left home. The parents, in the complaint, said Ganesh has been a good student since his school days. The parents said in the two-page letter addressed to them, Ganesh said that he was not interested in life and that he was struggling to cope up with depression. The parents also said that they had never found Ganesh so sad before. According to the parents, they saw Ganesh last when he left home on his motorbike, carrying his college bag and mobile phone, in the evening on January 21. They first thought he might have gone to his friend’s house without telling them. However, enquiring about him from all his friends and college staff bore no fruit, they said. Gangavaram Sub-Inspector Sudhakar Reddy said that a missing case has been registered. “We are leaving no stone unturned to trace the boy. As the mobile was switched off, we are pursuing all technical support available. We could establish some leads and we are sure to trace the boy,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/degree-first-year-student-goes-missing/article33689963.ece
29 January 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Newlywed found dead||The body of a newly-married woman was found hanging from a rope at her house in the Neerugattupalle area of Madanapalle town on Thursday. The woman, identified as Uma (22) from Tirupati, married her boyfriend Ramanjaneyulu, a weaver from Dharmavaram in Anantapur district, recently. With Uma’s parents not happy with the marriage, the couple got settled down in a weaver’s colony at Neerugattupalle. Ramanjaneyulu joined a powerloom unit there. Some neighbours reportedly found the body of Uma hanging from the ceiling on Friday morning. The police shifted the body to a hospital for autopsy. Ramanjaneyulu had been absconding since Wednesday night. A suspicious death case has been registered, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/woman-found-dead/article33689964.ece
29 January 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Freight services: SCR Guntur division takes a new initiative||After the red chilli, jowar grown in the black soils of Guntur is chugging its way to the far-off corners in the country, thanks to the new imitative of Guntur division of South Central Railway. The SCR, Guntur division, has begun freight services of agricultural commodities in 2020 by setting up business development units. First rake The first rake loaded with jowar has been transported from Reddipalem station to Namakkal station in Tamil Nadu which is 758 km from Reddipalem in Guntur. The freight train consisting of 21 wagons has transported 1,329 tonnes of jowar. Jowar is produced in Guntur district on large scale (to the tune of about two lakh tonnes per annum). The transportation of jowar by rail will help farmers/traders in marketing their produce with reduced en route damages and hassle-free delivery at destinations. Cement transportation In addition, the division has commenced loading of cement from the Nandyal station after a gap of three years on Republic Day. Cement packed in bags has been transported from Nandyal station after a gap of three years to Vidisha station of Madhya Pradesh which is 1,398 km from Nandyal. This freight train consisting of 21 BCN wagons has transported 1,326 tonnes of cement. During this interim period of three years, bagged cement has been transported by road. “Our BDU teams have consistently pursued with freight customers and explained various freight concessions being offered by the railways. Accordingly, customers have expressed their willingness and offered loading by rail, duly availing station to station rate, which has provided a rebate of Rs. 4.3 lakh in the freight charges for the mini rake loaded from Nandyal to Vidisha,” said Divisional Railway Manager A. Mohan Raja. SCR General Manager Gajanan Mallya complimented the officials and staff of Guntur division, especially the BDU team, for their continuous efforts towards tapping the new areas of freight business.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/freight-services-scr-guntur-division-takes-a-new-initiative/article33689443.ece
29 January 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||How can Naidu release manifesto for local body polls, asks YSRCP||YSRCP official spokesperson and legislator Ambati Rambabu has accused TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu of trying to turn the non-party gram panchayat elections into party-based exercise, and wondered why State Election Commissioner N. Ramesh Kumar is dithering over action against the Opposition leader for releasing a manifesto. “Mr. Ramesh Kumar has not been working in the spirit of the Constitution. Even if Mr. Naidu pairs up with Mr. Ramesh Kumar, the TDP cannot be saved from sinking,” Mr. Rambabu told the media at the party central office at Tadepalli. Stating that unanimous elections existed in the country, Mr. Rambabu questioned whether it was mentioned anywhere in the Constitution that there should be no unanimous elections in the local body polls. He further accused the SEC of dancing to Mr. Naidu’s tune and terrorising the government officials by exercising his powers. Mr. Ramesh Kumar, while still staying in Hyderabad, was blaming the government officials for rejecting his enrolment as a voter from Duggirala, Mr. Rambabu said. Unanimous elections Addressing the media in Tirupati, Minister for Panchayat Raj Peddireddi Ramachandra Reddy lashed out at Mr. Naidu for releasing the manifesto. “Who has given Mr. Naidu the right to release a manifesto while the model code is in force? While the government is keen on encouraging unanimous elections, Mr. Naidu is bent on creating havoc,” he alleged. Mr. Naidu could not get a majority in his own district and had never worked for the people, and therefore he had no moral right to speak about former Chief Minister Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy, who had worked selflessly and offered health services for only Rs. 1 in Pulivendula. He further accused Mr. Ramesh Kumar of arm-twisting the bureaucrats and government employees. “The government is following the verdict of the Supreme Court on panchayat elections, but the State Election Commissioner has been acting as a monarch,” he alleged. He also accused Mr. Ramesh Kumar of becoming a pawn in the hands of Mr. Naidu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/how-can-naidu-release-manifesto-for-local-body-polls-asks-ysrcp/article33689978.ece
29 January 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Include gopalamitras in MAITRI programme’||Narasaraopet Member of Parliament Lavu Srikrishnadevarayalu has urged Union Minister for Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Dairying Giriraj Singh to include 2,800 gopalamitras in Union government’s Multi-purpose AI Technician in Rural India (MAITRI) programme where artificial insemination technicians are being trained and given cash incentives. The MP was speaking at the committee meeting for the Ministry in New Delhi on Thursday to review the progress of National Artificial Insemination programme. Milk productivity The MP further said that milk productivity of cattle through artificial insemination of 50,000 bulls in Guntur district was being done. The MP said: “Through the combined force of AP-Amul project and NAIP, dairy farmers in Andhra Pradesh are marching towards better income through higher productivity cattle.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/include-gopalamitras-in-maitri-programme/article33689441.ece
29 January 2021||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pulivendula police nab treasure hunter gang||The Pulivendula police claimed to have solved the Chagaleru Vinayaka idol theft case with the arrest of gang of four suspected treasure hunters on Thursday. After the Vinayaka idol went missing a fortnight back in Chagaleru village of Vemula mandal, falling under Pulivendula constituency, there was much furore across the State that was already witnessing a spate of desecration of idols. However, it reportedly turned out to be the handiwork of a local hermit, identified as Sadguru Rama Maharshi Swamy, who allegedly hired four persons to bring the idol from the temple. “With the belief that the idol contained gems and diamonds inside it, the gang broke it and later dumped it on not finding anything,” Deputy Superintendent of Police (Pulivendula) E. Srinivasulu said. Sri Hari and Khadarvali of Vempalli, Nagendra and Nagendra Prasad of Tadipatri were arrested and sent to remand. An SUV and a two-wheeler were seized from them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pulivendula-police-nab-treasure-hunter-gang/article33689993.ece
29 January 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two burnt alive as car catches fire||Two persons, including driver, were burnt alive and three others were injured when a car caught fire after a live wire snapped and fell on it when the vehicle hit an electric pole at Mallisala village under Jaggampeta police limits in East Godavari district on Thursday. The deceased have been identified as Veerni Hanumanthu Rao (56) of Visakhapatnam and Mattu Sateesh (41) of East Godavari district. Veerni Ramadevi, Mannem Bhanu and Mannem Adithya, who were travelling in the back seat, however, escaped from the car after sensing the electrocution., according to East Godavari SP Adnan Nayeem Asmi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-burnt-alive-as-car-catches-fire/article33689988.ece
29 January 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Inoculation drive lagging in south coastal A.P.||The COVID-19 vaccination programme continued at a slower pace in south coastal Andhra Pradesh on Thursday. The selected frontline workers are said to be reluctant to take the jab as the single-day count is declining while the recovery rate is going up. A little over 50% of the health workers have been administered with the vaccine since January 16, when the drive began and the rest are said to be not coming forward for the inoculation. “Going by the present trend, we may find it hard to meet the vaccination target. We are using all skills to convince the selected beneficiaries to take the vaccine. The process of the local body elections being set in motion from Friday and the three-day Pulse Polio programme beginning on January 31 are also likely to hamper the vaccination drive,” said health officials. Only 995 health professionals took the jab in Nellore and Prakasam districts on Thursday, according to reports received by the health authorities in Nellore and Ongole till late in the evening. About 29,000 of the targeted 53,000 health workers in the first phase have been inoculated so far during the vaccination drive being taken up in the two districts since January 16, the health officials said. ‘Adverse effect’ A health worker from Kandukur, who was suffering from a chronic illness experienced some ‘adverse effects’ after he was administered with the vaccine, said Prakasam District Medical and Health officer P. Ratnavalli. “Most of the targeted beneficiaries working at the public health centres and government hospitals have been inoculated. Now, we will focus on the health workers in the private sector and complete the drive in the next seven to 10 days,” she said, adding that as many as 2,000 anganwadi workers were among the 13,000 beneficiaries who have taken the jab so far. “The response is not encouraging from health workers from some private hospitals,” observed Nellore DM&O S. Rajyalakshmi, adding none would be forced to take the vaccine. A group of Anganwadi workers and helpers in Ongole expressed reluctance over taking the jab. “The authorities should not compel those workers who are not ready to take the jab,” said Anganwadi Workers and Helpers Union of India Prakasam district general secretary E. Annapurna.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vaccination-drive-gets-lukewarm-response-in-south-coastal-districts/article33689968.ece
29 January 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Delicate cardiac surgery performed on youth||A rare cardiac surgery has been performed on a 20-year-old engineering student who sustained a blunt injury to his anterior chest in a road accident, at the Ramesh Sanghamitra Hospital here. A team of doctors led by Dr. G. Sudheer told the media that the patient was brought to the trauma care centre with hypotension and reduced heart rate. A quick scan of the chest and abdomen showed blood clots around his heart. The doctors removed blood clots. Later, they identified 2-inch tear in the heart and the same was repaired. “Now, the patient is doing well. A few patients survive post-cardiac tears. A literature review between 1957 to 2017 revealed that there were only 16 patients surviving after sustaining a blunt cardiac rupture in past 60 years,” said Dr. Sudheer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/delicate-cardiac-surgery-performed-on-youth/article33689966.ece
29 January 2021||PALAKOL (WEST GODAVARI DT),ANDHRA PRADESH||Sighting of snake: officials visit anganwadi centre||Officials of the Department of Women Development and Child Welfare (WD&CW) and the Municipal Corporation on Thursday visited the anganwadi centre at Bangarucheruvu Gattu where a snake was found. Responding to a news item published in The Hindu on snakes entering the anganwadi centre, West Godavari WD&CW Project Director K. Vijaya Kumari, Poduru Child Development Project Officer (CDPO) Ch. Indira, Palakol Municipal Corporation Divisional Engineer (DE) Vijay Kumar and other officials visited the centre and ward secretariat in the town. Ms. Vijaya Kumari checked the windows, ventilators, doors, drainage system and the surrounding area. The PD found that the premises and the ‘cheruvu’ behind the centre were in highly untidy condition. Bushes cleared Mr. Vijay Kumar said the bushes were cleared around the anganwadi centre and steps would be taken to beautify the tank. “Instructions have been given to the staff to take up repairs to the centre immediately. We will shift the children to other centre, if necessary,” said WD&CW Director Krithika Shukla. A report would be submitted to the District Collector, Joint Collector and other officials on the condition of the pre-school, Vijaya Kumari said. Municipal Commissioner N. Pramod Kumar accorded permission to take up temporary development works for the anganwadi centre and the secretariat building.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sighting-of-snake-officials-visit-anganwadi-centre/article33689444.ece
29 January 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD waives APSRTC lease amount for lockdown period||Taking a positive approach to the request of the Andhra Pradesh State Road Transportation Corporation (APSRTC), the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanam (TTD) has resolved to waive the lease amount of about Rs. 81.22 lakh pertaining to the lockdown period. The TTD has leased out certain lands and buildings both at Tirumala and Tirupati to the APSRTC since 1975 and is collecting monthly lease amounts since then. Though the dues were settled up to March 1988, the process hit a road block thereafter till 2016 when the TTD revised the lease amounts. Accordingly, it decided to realise the same till March 2018. However, the RTC repeatedly approached TTD with requests to adopt a rational approach in the fixing of the lease amounts, for it reportedly found the charges to be too high. Finally, the TTD in February last decided to settle the issue besides taking even the correlated factors into consideration. But, the exercise again could not reach its logical end with the outbreak of the pandemic. With this, TTD again could not arrive at a concrete conclusion with regard to the fixing of monthly rent to be collected from RTC on its lands and buildings. Meanwhile, the RTC discontinued its operations to Tirumala in view of COVID-19 from March 24 last year. Yielding to the request of TTD, it, however, agreed to operate mandatory services for the transportation of TTD employees to and from Tirupati even during the lockdown period until it finally resumed operations from June 8. Citing the local canteens at Tirumala, which were permitted with pre-mature closure and exempted of license condition on two months notice and collect GST as per the statutory norms in view of the pandemic, the RTC authorities in their request letter urged the TTD to extend them the same benefit and waive the lease amount for the lockdown period. The Estates committee, which was seized with the issue, however, sounded reluctant to entertain the request as it feared would pave the way for similar pleas from other governmental organisations, banks, shops and spiritual organisations and decided to refer the issue to the board of trustees which after discussions, resolved to waive the lease amount.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ttd-waives-apsrtc-lease-amount-for-lockdown-period/article33689987.ece
29 January 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||SV Bala Mandir to get additional hostel block||The TTD has resolved to construct an additional hostel block for the students of the Sri Venkateswara Bala Mandir in Tirupati. The institution has a strength of 150 girls and 129 boys. It is equipped with a hostel decent enough to accommodate 170 students. The TTD has resolved to construct another building to accommodate 256 students . It accorded an administrative sanction for Rs. 10.75 crore for the an additional hostel block using precast concrete technology in October last. But, it was forced to change the proposal to conventional concrete structure as no bidder came forward . It was only in last November that the TTD, which had by then invited the tenders thrice, finally approved the works through reverse auction process and pegged the cost at Rs. 7.60 crore. The new building is expected to get completed by the year end.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sv-bala-mandir-to-get-additional-hostel-block/article33689970.ece
29 January 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Family of deceased AR constable gets Rs. 30 lakh||The Tirupati Urban Police extended financial support to the family members of Armed Reserve constable Ghouse Basha who died in a road accident while on duty. Tirupati Urban Additional SP E. Supraja handed over a cheque for Rs. 30 lakh, accrued as part of the SBI’s Police Salary Package (PSP) scheme, to Basha’s wife Suneera on Thursday. Basha met with an accident while on duty in February last year and died. As Basha had an account under the PSP with the bank’s Annamaiah Circle branch, he is eligible for the insurance sum of Rs. 30 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/family-of-deceased-ar-constable-gets-rs-30-lakh/article33689971.ece
29 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP urges Governor to ensure free and fair panchayat polls||A delegation of the BJP and the Jana Sena Party (JSP), comprising Somu Veerraju, Nadendla Manohar, Kanna Lakshminarayana and Kandula Durgesh, submitted a memorandum to Andhra Pradesh Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan on Thursday, and requested him to issue instructions for the conduct of gram panchayat elections in a free and fair manner. The leaders alleged that the large-scale violence that was witnessed during the process of elections for the municipalities, ZPTCs and MPTCs last year, and the attacks on candidates and coercive measures taken by the ruling party leaders at that time, had resulted in an unprecedented spike in unanimous elections in favour of the YSRCP. These incidents created a doubt that the present elections might also be marred by violence and electoral malpractices against the backdrop of the spat between the government and the State Election Commissioner (SEC), the memorandum said. They also told the Governor that there had been attacks on temples and desecration of idols, but the government had so far not succeeded in nabbing the culprits. YSRCP slams Naidu YSRCP official spokesperson and legislator Ambati Rambabu on Thursday accused TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu of trying to turn the non-party gram panchayat elections into a party-based exercise. He asked why State Election Commissioner (SEC) N. Ramesh Kumar was dithering about taking action against the opposition leader for releasing a manifesto. “Mr. Ramesh Kumar has not been working in the spirit of the Constitution. Even if Mr. Naidu pairs up with Mr. Ramesh Kumar, the TDP cannot be saved from sinking,” Mr. Rambabu told presspersons at the party central office at Tadepalli. Stating that unanimous elections existed in the country, Mr. Rambabu questioned whether it was mentioned anywhere in the Constitution that there should be no unanimous elections in the local body polls. He further accused the SEC of dancing to Mr. Naidu’s tune and terrorising government officials by exercising his powers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bjp-jana-sena-urge-governor-for-free-and-fair-polls/article33689342.ece
29 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||HCL to organise mega virtual recruitment drive on Feb. 12, 13||HCL Technologies, which has begun its operations in the Global IT Development Centre at Gannavaram near Vijayawada in February last will recruit over 1,000 candidates with various educational and work backgrounds starting from intermediate pass-outs to professionals in IT. HCL Technologies corporate vice-president and New Vistas director Srimathi Shivashankar, at a press meet on Thursday, announced that the mega virtual recruitment drive will be conducted on February 12 and 13 and candidates who have just passed graduation and those having two to eight years experience in key technologies like Java, chip designing, .Net, Azure, SAP, Python and others can apply. TechBee Ms. Srimathi said that under the HCL's early career programme TechBee candidates who have completed intermediate with over 65% aggregate can apply for the one-year training programme after which job in entry-level would be offered. She said HCL also supports higher education of TechBee scholars through its arrangement with BITS Pilani or SASTRA University. She said already over 750 students have enrolled in TechBee programme. About the Gannavaram facility which was established as part of HCL’s New Vistas programme, Ms. Srimathi said that currently it has about 1,500 employees and in the coming four years it would be increased to 5,000. She said, 90% of the employees were from Vijayawada and surrounding regions. She said HCL also offers training to candidates in collaboration with the government and can train 1,000 students. Ms. Srimathi said that the drive aims at reaching out to professionals and freshers from the region and encouraging them to come back home where exciting careers in engineering services, application and product development and others would be provided. Further details about the recruitment drive are available on the HCL website hcltech.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hcl-to-organise-mega-virtual-recruitment-drive-on-feb-12-13/article33689440.ece
29 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Planning Board to usher in global standards in higher education sector||Recognising the importance of creating an environment that fosters collaboration and generate a synergy, the government has constituted a Higher Education Planning Board (HEPB) tasked with ushering in global standards in the higher education sector. “The idea is to bring together the State universities and the Central institutions in the State and facilitate exchange of ideas and best practices that can be executed not just to raise the standards of colleges and universities but also the academia,” said K. Hemachandra Reddy, Chairman of the Andhra Pradesh State Council for Higher Education, the nodal agency for the new initiative. The universities and institutions established by the Central government in the State work in isolation without much interaction with the State higher educational institutions. “Both the categories have their own strengths and tremendous potential to grow and develop by working together,” says Prof. Reddy. Chairman, APSCHE, is the Chairman of the Planning Board, Special Chief Secretary of Higher Education Department, Vice-Chairman of APSCHE, Special Commissioner of Collegiate Education, Directors or nominee of the Directors of the 12 Central institutions and Vice-Chancellors of the State Universities are members and Secretary, APSCHE, the Convener. The Board members will meet at least twice in an academic year, and the meeting will be preceded by a workshop on selected themes so that the outcomes can be placed in the meeting for discussion and suggestions can be made on policy changes. “We plan to host the first workshop in February,” said Prof. Reddy. The role of the Board members will be to suggest new courses of contemporary relevance and extend support in design and development of curriculum, promote inter-institutional research of global standard and to connect industry and research organisations to the higher education institutions in the State and to undertake capacity building programmes for faculty and leaders. The other focus areas will be to facilitate academic events involving national and international organisations, to promote mutually beneficial programmes such as skill development, placement support, sharing of infrastructure and learning resource, faculty exchange programmes, adoption of best practices and promotion of innovation, incubation and start-ups. “Identifying national and international trends in higher education sector and suggesting policy measures to enable local students adapt to them and also to identify the quality gaps and support measures to fill the same will be an important area to focus on,” said Prof Reddy, exuding confidence that the initiative would help develop an ecosystem of a fruitful collaboration between the State and Central institutions and create a culture of togetherness.  It will facilitate exchange of best practices that can be executed not just to raise the standards of colleges but also the academia. K. Hemachandra Reddy APSCHE Chairman||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/planning-board-to-usher-in-global-standards-in-higher-education-sector/article33689981.ece
29 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||CM: finalise tenders for new medical colleges by April 15||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has ordered the officials of the Medical, Health & Family Welfare Department to finalise the tenders for the construction of new medical colleges and augmentation of infrastructure in the existing ones by April 15. He has also directed that steps be taken for speedy execution of works under the Nadu-Nedu programme in the health sector in tune with the priority attached to it by the government. Addressing a review meeting on Thursday on the programme under which development works were being taken up at an estimated cost of Rs. 16,270 crore, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said emphasis should be laid on the establishment of YSR urban and village clinics, which were intended to take healthcare to the grassroots level. The process of acquiring land needed for the construction of new hospitals should also be expedited, he said. Further, the Chief Minister ordered that the vacancies in government hospitals be filled to ensure that the services were rendered without any major disruption. Officials told Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy that construction of 151 new Primary Health Centres (PHCs) and renovation of 982 existing ones would be completed by October and 10,011 village clinics would be ready by the end of April. Works under Nadu-Nedu in the area hospitals would be finished by the year-end, they said. Undiagnosed illness Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy enquired about the fresh cases of undiagnosed illness reported in West Godavari and instructed the officials to keep a close watch on it in order to deal with it effectively while finding out its exact cause.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cm-finalise-tenders-for-new-medical-colleges-by-april-15/article33689984.ece
29 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||KL engg. entrance exam from March 8||KL deemed to be University vice-chancellor L.S.S. Reddy has announced the schedule for the first phase of the online entrance examination which will be conducted on March 8, 9 and 10 for admission into engineering courses at the Vijayawada and Hyderabad campuses for the upcoming academic year. Addressing a press conference here, Mr. Reddy said that the entrance exams were conducted every year to encourage merit students. He said that classes would resume on the campus from February 1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kl-engg-entrance-exam-from-march-8/article33690060.ece
29 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||117 new cases, no death in State||For the sixth time this month, there were no COVID-19 death in the State in the last one day. In the 24 hours ending Thursday, 117 new infections were reported. The tally, therefore, increased to 8,87,466 while the toll remained at 7,152. The recoveries increased to 8,78,956 as 128 patients recovered in the last one day and the recovery rate stood at 99.04%. The number of tests conducted crossed 1.30 crore as 36,189 samples were tested in the last one day with 0.32% positivity rate. Krishna reported 26 new infections. It was followed by Visakhapatnam (19), Guntur (17), Chittoor (16), Kurnool (7), West Godavari (7), East Godavari (6), Nellore (6), Anantapur (4), Kadapa (4), Prakasam (3) and Vizianagaram (2). There were no new cases in Srikakulam. The overall toll in the districts was as follows: Chittoor (847), Krishna (676), Guntur (670), East Godavari (636), Anantapur (599), Prakasam (580), Visakhapatnam (561), West Godavari (541), Nellore (506), Kurnool (488), Kadapa (463), Srikakulam (347) and Vizianagaram (238). The overall tallies were as follows: East Godavari (1,24,225), West Godavari (94,210), Chittoor (86,993), Guntur (75,455), Anantapur (67,633), Nellore (62,304), Prakasam (62,172), Kurnool (60,791), Visakhapatnam (59,714), Kadapa (55,245), Krishna (48,585), Srikakulam (46,114) and Vizianagaram (41,130).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/117-new-cases-no-death-in-state/article33689975.ece
29 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Admission to AYUSH courses||Dr. NTR University of Health Sciences has invited applications for admission to undergraduate AYUSH courses for the academic year 2020-21 under the AP State quota (competent authority) seats in view of lowering of the qualifying cut-off scores in NEET-2020. Applications have to be submitted on the website – https://apmedadm.apntruhs.in Eligible candidates have to register their applications online and upload scanned certificates from 9 a.m. of January 29 to 6 p.m. of February 1. Details can be seen on the website – https://ntruhs.ap.nic.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/admission-to-ayush-courses/article33689983.ece
29 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Water users for location of KRMB in Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh State Water Users’ Associations (APSWUA) Federation has requested the Union Ministry of Jal Sakti, Department of Water Resources, to ensure that headquarters of the Krishna River Management Board (KRMB) was located in Vijayawada, the Krishna Basin Area. The federation, in the letter dated Thursday, said that the KRMB should be located in Vijayawada as decided previously by Andhra Pradesh and Union of India. Referring to the State government’s letter to KRMB, the federation pointed out the government decided that the Headquarters of KRMB would be stationed at Visakhapatnam city. Accordingly the Engineer- in-Chief (Irrigation) has been instructed to identify suitable accommodation for KRMB headquarters at Visakhapatnam. The government’s decision on the headquarters of KRMB was very objectionable. The proposed Visakhapatnam city is far from the Krishna Basin and is about 350 km distance from it or Vijayawada. As per the KWDT-II Award (yet to be published), KWDT-1B will come into force. The present KWDT-II proceedings are in an advanced stage. The award stipulated that “the board shall determine the place of its headquarters and locations at central and suitable places for its regional and sub-offices as the need be.” Certainly, it can be presumed that regional and sub-regional centres would be selected at locations within Krishna Basin only. Further, the Government of Telangana in the letter dated January 15, 2021 has also raised their objection for shifting the KRMB headquarters to Visakhapatnam. Hence, the Jal Sakthi Ministry was requested to retrieve its earlier instructions to KRMB to shift its headquarters and safeguard the rights of ayacutdars, said the federation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/water-users-for-location-of-krmb-in-vijayawada/article33689445.ece
29 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP urges Governor to act against Sajjala, two Ministers||The TDP has written a letter to Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan requesting him to take stringent action against two Ministers and the Adviser to the Government ‘for directly threatening and belittling a constitutional authority, for gross violation of constitutional principles, and also for violation of the oath taken by them’. TDP leaders Alapati Rajendra Prasad, Varla Ramaiah and MLC Buddha Venkanna, in their letter on Thursday, said the Ministers should be dismissed, and action should be taken against the Adviser. “The Ministers, P. Ramachandra Reddy and B. Satyanarayana, and the Adviser Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy were directly interfering in the election process by making derogatory statements against the SEC. They were also attributing political motives to the SEC which is a constitutional body, when it is functioning independently as per the constitutional mandate under Article 243-K,” they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-urges-governor-to-act-against-sajjala-two-ministers/article33689973.ece
29 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Inter practical exams: syllabus cut by 30%||The Board of Intermediate Education (BIE) has reduced the syllabus for Practicals (General) in Science subjects for the academic year 2020-2021 by 30% keeping in view the reduced working days due to COVID-19. A statement released by the BIE on Thursday said the details of the deleted topics subject wise had been communicated to the authorities concerned, and also available on the BIE website – bie.ap.gov.in. The syllabus for theory examinations was also reduced by 30%, and the same had already been uploaded on the website.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/inter-practical-exams-syllabus-cut-by-30/article33689979.ece
29 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Six arrested by city police for spree of property offences||The crime wing of the Visakhapatnam City Police on Thursday arrested six persons for their alleged involvement in a spree of property offences in the city. Two juveniles who were in conflict with the law were also taken into custody for their involvement in the crimes. In one case, Pendurthi police arrested a 29-year old man who was allegedly involved in five house burglaries at Gavarapalem and Seshadri Nagar areas, over the last few weeks. Police recovered seven tolas of gold ornaments worth Rs. 33,800 from the possession of the accused, identified as B. Ramesh (29) of Thatichetlapalem. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Crimes) V. Suresh Babu said that Ramesh had completed his B.Sc in chemistry. In 2018, he allegedly committed a burglary in Vizianagaram district and was arrested. He also has a suspect sheet at Bhogapuram police station. The accused works as a reactor operator at an industry in Parawada. In another case, Bheemili police arrested P. Veerababu (30) of Kakinada for his alleged involvement in two property offences at Tagarapuvalasa and Bheemili. Police said that on August 27, 2020, the accused had allegedly stolen a motorcycle and a wallet and decamped with Rs. 20,000 cash at R. Tallavalasa in Bheemili. Again, on the night of August 28, he had allegedly committed a burglary at Tagarapuvalasa and decamped with seven tolas of gold ornaments and Rs. 1.75 lakh in cash. After his arrest, police recovered the stolen motorcycle, Rs. 10,000 cash and two tolas of gold from his possession. In a case from Gajuwaka, special police teams arrested J. Rajesh (19) of Narsipatnam and K. Mallu Naidu (22), who was the ‘receiver’, and took a juvenile into custody for allegedly committing a burglary at Mulagada Housing Colony in Gajuwaka. Police recovered two tolas of gold ornaments and Rs. 1,500 cash. Mr Suresh Babu said that both the juvenile and Rajesh are ex-offenders. Addicted to ganja, alcohol and other vices and being neglected by their parents, the accused reportedly got sucked into a wayward life of crime. In another case, MVP police arrested A. Sampat Kumar (27) of Yadagirigutta in Telangana, for entering a house and allegedly attempting to snatch a gold chain from a woman at MVP Colony double road on January 2. The accused had even allegedly attacked the inmates of the house with a blade. In the fifth case, police arrested an ex-offender named N. Gowri Shankar (27) for allegedly stealing property worth Rs. 20,000 from a house at Ushodaya Junction in November 2020. Another accused in the case is yet to be nabbed. Meanwhile, Arilova police took a 16-year-old juvenile into custody for allegedly committing two burglaries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/six-arrested-by-city-police-for-spree-of-property-offences/article33690064.ece
29 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vaccination drive progresses smoothly in Visakha Agency||The vaccination programme for COVID-19 began in the 13 mandals of Visakhapatnam Agency, along with the nationwide launch on January 16. Twelve days on, no adverse event following immunisation (AEFI) cases have been detected, ITDA Project Director S. Venkateswar confirmed. In Visakha Agency, there are around 3,000 listed health workers, of whom around 2,400 are ASHA workers. Around 60% of them have already taken the jab, but so far there have been no cases of adverse effects or reactions, said Dr. Venkateswar. In 13 mandals in the Agency area, the government has 40 session sites ready for the vaccination programme, including 36 PHCs, two CHCs, one area hospital and one district hospital. But the vaccination programme is running in six to eight centres only on a rotation basis to cover all the mandals, as per the Union Government’s directions. According to Dr. Venkateswar, adequate vaccines are available and a cold chain is ready in all the centres. In all centres, we have ice-lined refrigerators with generator back-up, he said. District makes progress Meanwhile, taking the entire district into consideration, till Wednesday evening, 18,000 health workers out of 34,761 have taken the vaccine. “After initial hiccups, the pace has picked up in the last three to four days and we are averaging close to 1,000 to 1,200 jabs on a daily basis in about 63 session sites,” said Dr. Jeevan Rani, District Immunisation Officer. Awareness levels have picked up and health workers have become more confident about the vaccine, she said. But she also added that the percentage of turnout continues to hover around 60 to 65%. Glitches continue However, the glitches with CoWIN App continue to bother the district administration. The app was launched by the Union Government and is also maintained and monitored by it. “The problem of repetition of names is continuing and we have been asking authorities to rectify it,” said Principal of Andhra Medical College and District COVID Special Officer P.V. Sudhakar. The repetition is around 25-30% and this is reducing the effective turnout, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vaccination-drive-progresses-smoothly-in-visakha-agency/article33690074.ece
29 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||ASHA workers demand release of dues||Accredited Social Health Activist (ASHA) workers staged a protest at the Gandhi Statue near the GVMC office on Thursday, demanding an increase in the budget allocation under National Health Mission (NHM) by the Centre, and payment of the additional allowance of Rs. 1,000 for the lockdown period as promised. Scores of ASHA workers participated in the protest raising slogans in support of their demands. Honorary president of ASHA Workers union P. Mani said the COVID-19 pandemic has caused the death of several ASHA workers all over the country. Their dependents were not even paid insurance, she alleged, adding that though the Jagan Mohan Reddy government had increased the amount of wages being paid to ASHA workers, it was not extending welfare schemes to them on the plea that they were getting higher wages. Workers in the unorganised sector, who were getting more wages, were availing the benefit of various welfare schemes of the government, Ms. Mani said. She added that the ASHA workers were being made to report both to the secretariats and the Medical and Health Department and sought continuation of ASHA workers in the Medical and Health Department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/asha-workers-demand-release-of-dues/article33690062.ece
29 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||ACB raids EPDCL official, unearths assets worth crores||Officials from the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) conducted raids on the houses and properties of M. Nageswara Rao, Assistant Engineer at APEPDCL’s Kommadi sub-station, for allegedly amassing wealth disproportionate to his known sources of income, here on Thursday. On the first day of the searches, teams reportedly unearthed illegal assets with a book value of Rs. 3.88 crore, the market value of which is estimated to be around Rs. 20 crore, ACB officials said. A team led by Additional SP (ACB) Shakeela Banu and DSP ACB (Visakhapatnam Urban) Ranga Raju conducted searches simultaneously at 12 various locations such as Seethammadhara, Seethampeta, Visalakshi Nagar, MVP Colony and Rambilli, as well as at the residences of his relatives, in Visakhapatnam district since Thursday morning. According to a release from ACB officials of Visakhapatnam Range, during the course of searches, the unearthed assets include two houses, two flats, two vehicles and FDRs, all worth around Rs. 3.88 crore, including FDRs worth Rs. 1.11 crore. “The ACB teams have also come to know about the whereabouts of three bank lockers pertaining to the tainted officer. They are likely to be opened on Friday. Searches will continue,” Ms. Banu said. Mr. Nageswara Rao joined the Electricity Department on July 29, 1991 and underwent training as Lineman in Visakhapatnam. On October 27, 1992, he was promoted as Sub-Engineer. He was earlier arrested by the ACB for accepting a bribe from a complainant in Visakhapatnam Range and was convicted. On November 28, 2003, he was dismissed from service. Later, he was reinstated on August 12, 2013 as Sub-Engineer. On June 26, 2014, he was promoted as AEE.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/acb-raids-epdcl-official-in-vizag/article33690010.ece
29 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||More amenities at railway station||East Coast Railway General Manager Vidya Bhushan on Thursday visited Visakhapatnam Railway Station and commissioned a 350-watt rooftop solar photovoltaic plant and a renovated passenger lounge on Platform 1. The photovoltaic plant, installed atop the platform shelters, can generate 1,200 units of electricity per day and will account for savings of Rs. 10 lakh a year for the Railways, officials said. As part of his visit, Mr. Vidya Bhushan inspected various amenities being provided at the railway station along with Divisional Railway Manager Chetan Kumar Srivastava. Mr. Vidya Bhushan inspected the battery-operated cars that are used to ferry passengers at a nominal fare. Interacting with the ‘Meri Saheli’ team, a special task force of the Railway Police Force (RPF) to assist women passengers at stations and on trains, the GM lauded the efforts of the women RPF team in rescuing children and cracking down on trafficking of girl children. Health kiosk A mobile health kiosk was inaugurated on Platform 1 of the railway station. The health kiosk was set up under the non-fare revenue initiative where any passenger can undergo a health check-up by paying Rs. 100 for 30 kinds of tests. A mobile health kiosk called Health on Wheels is also the part of the new initiative which will be available on demand at the platform. Mr. Vidya Bhushan inaugurated the renovated ‘Reserved Lounge’ on Platform 1. The lounge offers modern amenities such as recliners, cushioned sofas, relaxing chairs, and automated fans and lights, all added as part of the station’s redevelopment.  The GM also inspected the newly-built entrance arch of the Visakhapatnam Railway Station and inspected construction works on the station façade, which are in progress. He also visited the theme park called Van Vihar Park, developed at Marripalem Railway Colony. The GM also interacted with railway union leaders of Shramik Congress and Shramik Union.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/more-amenities-at-railway-station/article33690065.ece
29 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Short-circuit led to blaze at firm, suspect police||The fire mishap at Paramount Agro Industries that occurred in the Industrial Estate late on Wednesday night is believed to have been caused by a short-circuit, according to the Duvvada police. “We are approaching the electricity department to be a part of the investigation,” police officials said. the management is estimating property damage of around Rs. 10 crore. District Fire Officer B.V.S. Ram Prakash said that the fire department rushed six tenders to the spot immediately after receiving information about the fire. Tenders from HPCL, Steel Plant and NTPC were also deployed, he said. “It took till morning to douse the fire as there was limited access to the accident site. We had to break the compound wall to carry out the firefighting operation. We also ensured that the fire did not spread to the tanks in the vicinity,” Mr. Ram Prakash said. “The company manufactures edible oil and packs it in sachets, tins and bottles. Some of the packed material, a shed and machinery were damaged,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/short-circuit-led-to-blaze-at-firm-suspect-police/article33690067.ece
29 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||3 school buses gutted||Three buses belonging to a renowned private school parked in an open place were gutted at Pendurthi on Thursday morning. Officials are yet to ascertain the reason behind the blaze. According to sources, some locals saw fire emanating from the buses and called the police and the fire department. Fire personnel doused the fire within a short time and ensured that the blaze did not spread to other buses parked nearby.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/3-school-buses-gutted/article33690068.ece
29 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Corruption is worse than terrorism’||Former Joint Director of the Central Bureau of Investigation, V.V. Lakshminarayana, said that corruption was worse than terrorism. He was speaking at a seminar organised by Youth for Anti-Corruption here on Thursday. Mr. Lakshminarayana said that the responsibility of eradicating corruption lies on the youth. He also unveiled a Youth for Anti-Corruption brochure. Mr. Lakshminarayana urged youth to join hands with YAC to eradicate corruption and create awareness on eradicating corruption in villages using social media and other sources. Appreciating the organisation, he said that the YAC has done a commendable job in the last 10 years in various parts of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana and said that it was now time to move to the north Andhra region. Rajendra Palnati, founder of Youth for Anti-Corruption, spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/corruption-is-worse-than-terrorism/article33690072.ece
29 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Collector asks returning officers to go by rule book||District Collector V. Vinay Chand called upon returning officers to diligently discharge their duties in the upcoming panchayat elections in the district. Addressing the ROs of Anakapalle Division at a training programme here on Thursday, the Collector said that ROs played a key role in elections and advised them to carefully study the handbook on guidelines issued by the Election Commission. The guidelines should be strictly followed during all stages of the election process, right from filing of nominations to scrutiny and withdrawal, he said. “There should be transparency in the acceptance or rejection of nomination. It should be ensured that there are no errors in the acceptance of nominations. If the nominations are rejected for any reason, the same should be mentioned clearly. The steps in the preparation of the ballot paper should be followed meticulously,” he said. Those contesting for the post of sarpanch/ward member should be 21 years of age and be a registered voter of the village/ward concerned. Sarpanch contestants from General category should pay a security deposit of Rs. 3,000; SC/ST/BC candidates should pay Rs. 1,500. Contestants for Ward Member from General category should pay Rs. 1,000 and reserved candidates Rs. 500. Nominations should be accepted only after verifying all eligibility criteria. Zilla Parishad CEO Nagarjunasagar gave a presentation on the EC guidelines. Joint Collector P. Arun Babu, ITDA PO S. Venkateswar, Narsipatnam Sub-Collector N. Mourya, DRDA PD Visweswara Rao, RDOs Lakshmi Sivajyothi, Seetharama Rao and Penchala Kishore attended.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/collector-asks-returning-officers-to-go-by-rule-book/article33690066.ece
29 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Drawing contest at zoo on International Zebra Day||The Indira Gandhi Zoological Park (IGZP) will conduct drawing competitions for students of Classes I to XII on January 31 to mark International Zebra Day from 9. 30 a.m. to noon. IGZP Curator Nandani Salaria said that the programme is intended to create awareness among children about the zebra and the challenges it faces in its natural habitat. The topic for Class I to VI is ‘Worksheets on Zebra’, while for Class VII and VIII, the topic is ‘Zebras in Vizag Zoo’. Similarly for Class IX to XII, the topic is ‘Role of Zebras in its habitat’. For more details, contact M. Purushottam, biologist at 9000151920.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/drawing-contest-at-zoo-on-international-zebra-day/article33690070.ece
29 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||24x7 control room for local body polls||Ahead of the panchayat elections, the district police have set up a special control room to keep a check on supply and transport of liquor, ID arrack and gutkha in Visakhapatnam district. The control room, arranged at the district police headquarters, would function round the clock and will be supervised by Rahul Dev Singh, nodal officer, Special Enforcement Bureau. Appeal to public Mr. Singh appealed to the public to call the control room on 6309917172 and inform the police if they come across anyone distributing liquor to voters, transporting liquor or ID arrack and sand in any area. He said that the public can even send pictures or videos to the same phone number. Staff at the control room will directly pass the information received from the public to the SEB Nodal Officer. Action will be initiated immediately and information regarding the complainant will be kept confidential, a release issued by the district police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/24x7-control-room-for-local-body-polls-in-visakhapatnam/article33690011.ece
29 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man found dead in Parawada||The body of a 30-year-old man was found at an isolated place in Ravada area under Parawada police station limits here on Thursday morning. The deceased was identified as G. Rami Reddy (30), a resident of Gorsuvanipalem in Parawada mandal. The victim was a daily wage worker at NTPC. Police suspect that unidentified miscreants might have murdered Rami Reddy and dumped his body in the area late on Wednesday night.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-found-dead-in-parawada/article33690069.ece
29 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||19 cases in district||The district reported 19 new COVID-19 cases in the last 24 hours, taking the cumulative tally to 60,226 as of Thursday. The death toll stood unchanged at 533. The district reported 10 deaths this month. Active cases and recoveries are 128 and 59,565 respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/19-cases-in-district/article33690071.ece
29 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Webinar on blended learning tomorrow||Central Digital learning and EduBrisk in association with The Hindu In School will be organising a webinar on ‘21st century schools for ubiquitous learning’ and panel discussion will be on ‘Is blended learning in the classroom the panacea’. The webinar will be held on January 30 from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. The webinar is being held to discuss the pedagogy, curriculum and technology for right implementation of blended learning in schools. For registration and for more details visit:http://bit.do/21st-Century-S chool. The keynote speaker will be Saiju Aravind, senior scientist DRDO (Retired), a member of the Institute of Defence Scientists and Technologists (IDST), ex-naval commander, educationist and founder and chief mentor of EduBrisk Knowledge Solutions Private Limited. Panelists will be B. Pratap Reddy, director, SCERT, Government of Andhra Pradesh (A.P.) Madhvi Chandra, associate director of Gitanjali Group of Schools and principal of Gitanjali Devshala, Lakshmi Chetty, co-founder of Sadhana High School, Nellore, and Renu Shorey, former director principal of educational institutions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/webinar-on-blended-learning-in-schools-tomorrow/article33689446.ece
29 January 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||9,102 polling stations in Vizianagaram||Around 14.80 lakh voters will exercise their franchise in the local body polls in 34 mandals in Vizianagaram district in three phases. The authorities will set up 9,102 polling stations in 959 panchayats. As per the schedule finalised by the State Election Commission (SEC), 15 mandals in Parvatipuram division will go to polls on February 15, nine mandals on February 17 and 10 mandals on February 21. The notification for the first phase of the polls for 415 panchayats under Parvatipuram division will be issued on February 2. The nominations will be accepted till February 4 and the last day for withdrawal of nomination is February 8. The final list of candidates will be announced on February 8, said Vizianagaram Collector M. Hari Jawaharlal, adding that 10,011 polling officers will oversee the election process. Training programme “We will conduct training programmes for the polling staff in two phases. The staff should understand the rules, regulations and guidelines to avoid any mistake,” he said. Meanwhile, the Police Department has reportedly sought additional forces in the ‘sensitive villages’. Vizianagaram Superintendent of Police B. Rajakumari said the candidates who wanted to campaign in public places should obtain permission from the offices of the respective DSPs. In a review meeting with the senior officials to know the data pertaining to sensitive places, Ms. Rajakumari suggested the officials to study the previous election to get information about the situation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/1480-lakh-to-exercise-franchise-in-vizianagaram/article33689969.ece
29 January 2021||January 29 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Enforcing the code!||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/enforcing-the-code/article33689431.ece
29 January 2021||January 29 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Helpful aid||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/helpful-aid/article33689986.ece
29 January 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Farmers lay siege to ITC Paperboards unit||Agitated over their unmet demands, a group of aggrieved subabul and eucalyptus farmers led by BJP Kisan Morcha laid a siege to the ITC Paperboards & Specialty Papers Division (PSPD) unit at Sarapaka in Burgampadu mandal on Thursday. Tension prevailed at the main gate of the PSPD unit when the demonstrators tried to barge into the paper mill in pursuit of their demands, sources said. The BJP Kisan Morcha State president K Sridhar Reddy along with the BJP Khammam district president G Satyanarayana and Bhadradri-Kothagudem district president K Satyanarayana squatted in front of the entrance gate of the paper mill in support of the agitated farmers. Addressing the demonstration, Mr Sridhar Reddy charged the paper mill management with failing to abide by the agreement it reached with the farmers’ organisations on April 4, 2018. He alleged that the paper mill management was depriving the subabul and eucalyptus farmers of the assured mill landed price of Rs. 4,500 per tonne. Tense situation He further alleged that the officials of the company failed to comply with the timeframe set in a meeting recently conducted by the district administration in Khammam to resolve the charter of demands of the subabul and eucalyptus farmers. Tense situation persisted at the entrance of the paper mill as the demonstrators continued their sit-in protest refusing to hold any more talks with the company officials demanding immediate resolution of the demands of the farmers. The police whisked away the demonstrators to the Burgampadu police station. The demonstrators were let off later.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/farmers-lay-siege-to-itc-paperboards-unit/article33689778.ece
29 January 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Vaccine nationalism not a good thing in challenging times’||“Vaccine nationalism is not a good thing in challenging times like this. We don’t want other nations to indulge in vaccine nationalism and depriving others,” said principal scientific adviser to the Government of India (GoI) K. Vijaya Raghavan on Thursday. ‘Limited use’ Speaking at a webinar organised by the Administrative Staff College of India (ASCI) on Thursday to dispel fears about the coronavirus vaccines, Mr. Raghavan said, “The Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) has approved a limited use of the vaccines keeping in mind the risk involved if the disease accelerates, which has happened elsewhere.” Fielding a range of questions from hesitancy among medical workers to roll-out of Co-WIN for senior citizens to safety concerns, Mr. Raghavan tried to allay fears in the general population. “There have been very few adverse effects even among the other vaccines, which are in trial or are being deployed. We are investigating every adverse effect with scientific rigour,” said Mr. Raghavan. “There is no cause of concern for safety. Safety and immunogenicity trials are robust and strong. Rare events might happen; we must keep a watch on it,” he said. “Public boarding for citizens will happen only after the frontline and healthcare workers are vaccinated in time to come and the app will be rolled out for general public,” said Mr. Raghavan, answering a question posed by K. Padmanabhaiah of ASCI, who said he tried to login to the app thrice without success. “Efficacy is measured during clinical trials with half the people getting the vaccine and the other half placebo. The efficacy is relative to the number who don’t develop immunity. Our goal is to immunise the population faster,” said Mr. Raghavan who expressed concerns about the mutations of the virus that are being reported from across the world. “We expect people who can pay to pay for the vaccine and we also want people like industrialists and businessmen subsidise the vaccine for those who cannot afford it,” he added.  There have been very few adverse effects even among the other vaccines, which are in trial or are being deployed. Vijaya Raghavan||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/vaccine-nationalism-not-a-good-thing-in-challenging-times/article33689747.ece
29 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Panel continues talks on PRC recommendations||The three-member committee headed by Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar continued negotiations with various employees unions on the recommendations of the Pay Revision Commission for the second day on Thursday. The committee members met representatives of five unions – PRTU Telangana, Telangana Class IV Employees Association, Telangana State United Teachers’ Federation, Telangana Revenue Employees Service Association, Twin Cities Telangana Government Drivers’ Central Association at the BRKR Bhavan. The meeting was convened in line with the directions issued by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao. The committee members heard the views expressed by the representatives of the five associations on the PRC recommendations and other issues. The Chief Secretary assured the members that their stand pertaining to the PRC recommendations as well as other issues would be taken to the notice of the Chief Minister for necessary action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/panel-continues-talks-on-prc-recommendations/article33689763.ece
29 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Focus on enhancing cultivation of horticultural food crops||Minister for Agriculture S. Niranjan Reddy sought the cooperation of ICAR-Indian Institute of Horticultural Research for enhancing the cultivation of horticultural crops in Telangana to improve the income of farmers. A team of officials led by Mr. Niranjan Reddy on Thursday visited ICAR-IIHR at Hessaraghatta near Bengaluru as part of the State government’s plans to encourage and enhance cultivation of horticultural crops having a demand in the market. Potato cultivation The Minister sought IIHR’s cooperation in increasing potato cultivation in Telangana since the crop has constant price in the market and has good demand across the country not as a vegetable but as raw material in the refreshment (snacks) market. The visit has been undertaken following Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao’s instructions to study the best practices in potato cultivation since availability of water for irrigation has increased in the State and cultivation of regular food crops has been resulting in glut impacting farmers’ income. The team also comprised Director of Horticulture L. Venkatram Reddy, Vice-Chancellor of Sri Konda Laxman Telangana State Horticultural University Neeraja Prabhakar and others. Stating that there was an urgent need to focus on production of quality regular and horticultural food crops in the country, the Minister said it would improve the export potential and ensure improved income for farmers. He told the scientists at ICAR-IIHR that Telangana was planning to increase the extent of horticultural crops with focus on export of spices, aromatic, vegetable and fruit crops. Best practices Accordingly, the government was studying the best practices in horticultural crops, he said, adding that they have plans to visit Gujarat, Haryana and other States as also Spain, Israel and New Zealand for this purpose. Mobile vegetable kiosks Stating that soils in Karnataka and Telangana were mostly similar, he appealed to scientists to focus on research on crops based on market demand so that farmers could take up crops having good demand. The team from Telangana examined the demonstration plots on cultivation of ridge gourd, cluster beans, carrot, chilli, tomato and radish. They also examined mobile vegetable kiosks. Later, the visitors had a meeting with ICAR-IIHR scientists, including its Director M.R. Dinesh, heads of departments K.S. Shivashankara (plant physiology), T.S. Aghora (project evaluation), and C.K. Narayana (post harvest tech).  Telangana is planning to increase the extent of horticultural crops with focus on export of spices, aromatic, vegetable and fruit crops. Niranjan Reddy Minister for Agriculture||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/focus-on-enhancing-cultivation-of-horticultural-food-crops/article33689743.ece
29 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Girl lone winner from city in TCS iON IntelliGem contest||A girl studying in class IX was the lone winner from Hyderabad in the grand finale of the 3rd edition of TCS iON IntelliGem contest. Devi Kashyap from Meridian High School in the city was the winner in the seniors category on the topic ‘Universal Values’, a release about the results said. TCS iON IntelliGem contest was conducted for students of grades 5 to 9 in three stages — qualifiers, pre-finals and a national-level grand finale. To ensure student safety, TCS iON IntelliGem went fully online this year and witnessed participation from schools in over 180 cities from 27 States. Of the 50 students who made it to the grand finale, 10 emerged winners. The winners and finalists were awarded cash prizes, new age toys, trophies, certificates, books and subscriptions, the release said. TCS iON is a strategic unit of Tata Consultancy Services. The topics of the contest, which were common for senior and junior categories, were Universal Values, Communication Skills, Global Citizenship, Creativity and Innovation and Financial Literacy. Other winners were from Bengaluru, Chennai, Pune and Gurgaon. Registrations for the 4th edition (2021-22) of the contest have opened. Schools across the country can register for the contest on intelligem.tcsion.com, the press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/girl-lone-winner-from-city-in-tcs-ion-intelligem-contest/article33689739.ece
29 January 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||NRIs offer ray of hope to wobbling heritage site||Up on a small hillock near the Ammuguda Railway Station in Secunderabad is Koh Imam-e-Zameen, a site for mourning during Muharram. The small hilltop shrine is reached by an almost vertical flight of steps numbering 147. Threatened by continuous pulverising of rocks in the surrounding area, the religious place was on the verge of collapse when a trust run by NRIs stepped in. At the very heart of the shrine, the two 15-feet long stone beams holding up the ceiling have developed cracks. “Due to the concrete dumped on the top, the beams developed these cracks which made it structurally unstable. We are putting iron beams to support the structure and hold it up,” says Syed Nazeer Hasan Abedi of the Al Kausar Trust, which is carrying out the renovation work on the site. Barefoot workers have welded and rivetted iron beams to hold up the ceiling while other workers are working on removing the flaking lime plaster. “We are mixing the lime mortar on another site and it will be brought here and used for plastering. We are following the same technique that was used by the builders of the site,” says Mr. Abedi. According to religious leaders, the site dates from Ibrahim Qutb Shah’s time (1550-1580) before the foundation of Hyderabad. The better-known site from the same period in Hyderabad is the Moula Ali shrine. It used to be spread over 180 acres where now various other structures have come up. There are three other religious sites that can be seen from the top. “People are coming and dumping huge rocks here. Others have put up tin shacks and are creating property documents. We want the sanctity of the site to remain,” says Mr. Abedi, as he lays out the plan for the site. There is an open area on the hillock, which is being turned into a sitting deck for visitors. Other amenities are being created for the convenience of visitors as dozens of workers go about their task. At a time when most heritage sites in the city are getting destroyed or decaying due to neglect, restoration of Koh Imam-e-Zameen provides a ray of hope that some of the city’s heritage will be salvaged by its citizens.  Due to the concrete dumped on the top, the beams developed these cracks. We are putting iron beams to support the structure. Syed Nazeer Hasan Abedi Al Kausar Trust||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/nris-offer-a-ray-of-hope-to-wobbling-heritage-site/article33689738.ece
29 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||QuEST Global sets up TCMS lab, to hire 200 engineers||Product engineering and lifecycle services company QuEST Global has set up a Train Control and Management System (TCMS) lab at its Hyderabad facility. Spread over 5,800 sqft, the lab will facilitate verification and validation of safety-critical TCMS software for multiple functionalities. The next-generation lab will host test racks for various product families of Bombardier Transportation, a release from QuEST Global said on Thursday. With this launch, QuEST plans to hire over 200 engineers in Hyderabad with expertise across all phases of the software development lifecycle, test automation, and ethernet and internet protocol technology. The lab was inaugurated virtually by head of Engineering Technology Office (ETO) Systems, Bombardier Transportation, Stephane Navarra and chairman and CEO of QuEST Global Ajit Prabhu. The facility is part of a strategic partnership signed by both companies in 2019 to strengthen cooperation and further develop engineering capabilities for rail industry. The lab has capacity to house more than 100 racks and simulations for performing TCMS software testing and hardware-software integration checks. The lab provides the QuEST team with the infrastructure to manage their deliverables end to end.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/quest-global-sets-up-tcms-lab-to-hire-200-engineers/article33689744.ece
29 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||GHMC employees, workers erupt in protests||A semi-naked protest by the GHMC employees against the Pay Revision Commission’s recommendations on Thursday ended with police taking the protesters into custody. Under the banner of the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Employees Union, several employees and workers held a shirtless demonstration in front of the GHMC head office near Tank Bund. Speaking on the occasion, GHMEU president U. Gopal threatened of another ‘Sakala Janula Samme’ (mass strike) on the lines of the Telangana movement if the pay revision fitment is not hiked. Demanding 50% fitment, he urged the employees to come together for non-cooperation movement for the same. In another development, a total of 17 employees’ and workers’ unions of the GHMC have come together to form a joint action committee (JAC) to protest various “employee unfriendly” policies of the corporation. They held a public meeting on the GHMC head office premises and flayed the corporation’s attitude towards employees and workers. The JAC, including organisations such as INTUC, AITUC, Telangana Greater Hyderabad Municipal Employees’ Union, and several others, condemned the decision to hand over the garbage transportation to Ramky Enviro Engineers Limited (REEL), and said this will render the future of thousands of employees and workers uncertain. Also criticised was the GHMC’s move handing over maintenance of more than 700 kilometres of road length in city to private contractors. Work burden on the employees and workers has increased over the years owing to erosion of staff, yet promotions at the right time are being denied. Even salaries are not being paid on time, and deductions such as PF and pension are not being deposited correctly, the statement alleged. Dearness allowance PRC fitments are not being implemented, and dearness allowance is not being increased at the right time. Besides, appointments on compassionate grounds are being delayed enormously, the JAC complained. Among the major demands by the JAC are the ones to scrap the agreement with REEL and replace GHMC vehicles with new ones, and announce pay revision for GHMC employees and workers immediately. Outsourcing workers should be regularised, and till such time, they should be paid equal wages for equal work, they said. Other demands include reduced work burden, cashless health cards for staff, and allocation of double bedroom dwellings, reduction of promotion period to two years, filling up of all vacant posts with due promotions, salary for outsourcing employees by the first of every month, employment on compassionate grounds within one or two months, timely depositing of statutory deductions, and several others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ghmc-employees-workers-erupt-in-protests/article33689756.ece
29 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Rs. 10 per tonne of coal to go to SCCL pension fund||The board of Singareni Collieries Company Ltd (SCCL) has approved the proposal for the company’s contribution of Rs. 10 per tonne of coal mined, towards the coal mines pension scheme fund for the benefit of retired workers. The decision was taken at the 556th board meeting of the company held here on Thursday. Chaired by Chairman and Managing Director of the company N. Sridhar, the meeting has also approved purchase of 12 motor graders with a cost of Rs. 33.74 crore and 21 side discharge loaders (SDLs) with a cost of Rs. 7.13 crore. Further, the meeting has agreed to extend some percentage of small contracts to the SC and ST sections as per GO 59. Guidelines for giving the contracts to SC, ST communities would be prepared in tune with the GO. In addition, the board has approved to provide mobile crushers in four of its opencast mines. Board Members – Director in the Ministry of Coal P.S. Goswami and Deputy Secretary Ajitesh Kumar — participated in the board meeting via video-conferencing, while Directors of the company S. Chandrasekhar (Operations & Personnel, Administration and Welfare), N. Balaram (Finance, Planning & Projects), D. Satyanarayana Rao (Electrical & Mechanical) participated in person. Giving the details of the board meeting later, Mr. Sridhar stated contribution of Rs. 10 per tonne of coal mined towards the coal mines pension fund was to overcome the shortage of fund. He explained that the retired coal mine workers would be paid lumpsum provident fund as one-time benefit and would also be paid monthly pension based on their service as part of the coal mines pension scheme. However, increasing number of retired workers had created shortage of fund and the contribution would be made from retrospective effect – from December 19 last. The board had approved provision of mobile crushers in RG-3, Srirampur, Ramakrishnapur and KTK opencast mines as also contracts for removal of overburden in the four mines. Purchase of 12 motor graders required in the opencast mines and 21 SDLs in underground mines was also approved by the board. The board meeting has further given its nod for company budget for 2021-22 with an outlay of Rs. 2,550 crore with an increase of about 45.7% compared to the previous year. It has approved the revised budget of Rs. 1,750 crore for 2020-21. General Manager (Coordination) K. Ravishanker and Company Secretary Sunitha also attended the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/rs-10-per-tonne-of-coal-for-pension-fund/article33689758.ece
29 January 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||PRC drafted at KCR’s behest: Congress||Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) president N. Uttam Kumar Reddy has claimed that the Pay Revision Commission (PRC) report was drafted as per the wishes of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao and questioned the silence of some employee union leaders, whom he accused of becoming the stooges of the Chief Minister. Speaking to reporters here along with MLC T. Jeevan Reddy, TPCC working president Ponnam Prabhakar and others on Thursday, he said the fitment of 7.5% was unrealistic and too below the expectations of government employees. He said some union leaders had compromised the future of lakhs of employees for their personal benefits and asked the employees to launch an agitation. Congress will support your agitation if the demands were not met with, he said. The TPCC chief also condemned the PRC’s recommendation for reducing the House Rent Allowance by nearly 6%. He said that the PRC has failed to consider the inflation factor while recommending cuts in HRA. Referring to the nearly 1.91 lakh vacancies identified in various departments of the State government by the PRC, he said the Chief Minister has been misleading the people of Telangana by giving contradicting and false figures on the existing vacancies. Since the actual vacancy figure is now available, the government should immediately fill up all the positions and not just 50,000, which KCR intended to fill up now. “Not even 25% of vacancies were filled by the TRS government in the last seven years.” In a separate statement, CLP leader Bhatti Vikramarka, Manthani MLA, D. Sreedhar Babu and former MP Madhu Yaskhi Goud demanded 60% fitment to the employees and termed the PRC as a futile exercise of 31 months that deceived the employees who played a key role in Telangana formation. Mr. Bhatti said while KCR spent hundreds of crores for constructing a house for himself, he reduced the HRA benefits to lakhs of employees. He said KCR always defames the employees citing major portion of budget being spent on their salaries and welfare. At the same time, there is no control on the waste of State funds for personal benefits of ministers and some officers. He said KCR, Ministers and even some officials in the CMO were frequently using helicopters wasting public money unnecessarily. He also said some employee union leaders were compromising the interests of employees for their personal benefits.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/prc-drafted-at-kcrs-behest-says-congress/article33689767.ece
29 January 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Shiv Sena Reddy is Youth Congress chief||Senior Congress leaders advised the Youth Congress workers to keep the government in check launching programmes that were in the interests of the youngsters, who are being deprived of their right of employment by the governments at the centre and the state. Participating in the programme where the newly elected Telangana Youth Congress president K. Shiv Sena Reddy and other office bearers took charge, all the seniors wanted them to make a difference to the State politics sincerely raising the issues concerned with the youth. TPCC president Uttam Kumar Reddy alleged that both Prime Minister Narender Modi and Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao have failed to address the problem of rising unemployment. Referring to the latest findings in the Oxfam report released this week, Mr. Uttam said that 12.2 crore people lost their jobs during the lockdown period alone and among them nearly 9.2 crore jobs were lost in the informal sector. He said neither Mr. Modi nor KCR displayed any concern over the rising unemployment. CLP leader Bhatti Vikramarka said Youth Congress workers have a great responsibility on them to save Telangana which was realised due to the sacrifices of hundreds of youth. TPCC working president Ponnam Prabhakar, former minister K. Jana Reddy, MLC T. Jeevan Reddy, Manthani MLA, D. Sreedhar Babu AICC Secretaries G. Chinna Reddy, Madhu Yaskhi Goud, Sampath Kumar, Vamshichand Reddy; former ministers, Marri Shashidhar Reddy, Shabbir Ali, Damodar Reddy were among those present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/shiv-sena-reddy-takes-charge-as-youth-congress-president/article33689771.ece
29 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Nurture plants, keep tension away’||Growing plants and taking care of them would help people busy in urban life not only overcome boredom but also keep away tension and psychological distress, as plants provide the much-needed relief, said Finance Minister Harish Rao. The Minister said this while inaugurating the ninth nursery mela at People’s Plaza here on Thursday, where about 120 stalls arranged by nurseries from different parts of the country were thrown open for public. The stalls displayed various types of bonsai, organic, medicinal, aromatic, fruit, flower and decorative plants. Besides, all tools required in backyard gardening were showcased at the exhibition-cum-sale. The State government had taken up Haritha Haram programme to improve green cover, identifying the significance of trees in healthy living, Mr. Harish Rao said. “Loving nature is nothing but loving the society,” he added. Stating that many people in the city had been taking up kitchen gardening and roof gardening, he said that there was a need to teach children about the importance of raising plants as it was necessary for a sustainable future.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/nurture-plants-keep-tension-away/article33689741.ece
29 January 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||No ‘TPCC’ and ‘TBJP’ without KCR, says KTR||Municipal Administration Minister K. T. Rama Rao has said that the ‘Telangana’ prefix in the posts of TPCC president N. Uttam Kumar Reddy and BJP president Bandi Sanjay were the gift of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao. “Their political positions are due to the formation of Telangana, which would not have been possible without KCR,” the Minister said indicating that they would have never got those positions in the combined Andhra Pradesh. He made these comments while referring to the constant criticism of the Chief Minister by both the leaders. “They are not even respecting the age of the CM while making harsh annd baseless comments,” the KTR said adding “there is a limit to our patience.” He was speaking at a programme organised to merge the Telugu Nadu Vidyut Karmik a Sangham into Telangana Rashtra Vidyut Karmika Sangham (Telangana State Electricity Employees Association). Mr. KTR asked the employees to counter the baseless attacks on the Chief Minister with the vigour they had countered the false claims of rulers of the combined AP during the agitation. Reeling out the success stories of Telangana he attributed the major success to the employees in the power sector who worked hard to ensure 24-hour power supply in the new State. He said the new state faced three days of power holiday every week but KCR’s vision has reversed the situation with 24-hour power supply to all the sectors. From 7,000 MW of power generation Telangana has grown to 16,000 MW of generation and our state is on the top in per capital power consumption in the country. KTR said the Chief Minister will announce the unemployment allowance soon, as promised in the 2018 Assembly elections||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/no-tpcc-tbjp-without-kcr/article33689769.ece
29 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||NTPC gives papaya saplings to farmers||As part of its corporate social responsibility and community development programme, NTPC-Ramagundam has distributed about 25,000 papaya saplings among 20 local farmers at Ramagundam in Peddapalli district on Thursday. According to NTPC officials, the community development measure had a financial implication of Rs. 3.25 lakh. The saplings were handed over to farmers at a programme held at NTPC’s vocational training centre in Ramagundam. NTPC-Ramagundam’s Head of Human Resources M. Vijaya Lakshmi distributed the to farmers from Badripalli, Kundanpalli, Talkkalpalli, Brahamanpalli, Gunturpalli, Malkapur and Mediapalli villages. Speaking on the occasion, Ms. Vijaya Lakshmi asked the farmers to do cultivation in a scientific way to derive high yield and good returns. Deputy General Manager (CSR) D.S. Kumar and others participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ntpc-gives-papaya-saplings-to-farmers/article33690022.ece
29 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||ACB nabs TSSPDCL employee||An employee of Telangana State Souther Power Distribution Company Limited was taken into custody on Thursday for allegedly demanding and accepting a bribe of Rs. 20,000, the Anti Corruption Bureau stated. The accused has been identified as Sabeel Baba, a computer operator who works in Tandur. He allegedly demanded the bribe for reducing industrial load from 74 HP to 49 HP of a quarry in Malkapur in Tandur. Rs. 13,900 in unaccounted cash was also recovered from his possession.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/acb-nabs-tandur-tsspdcl-employee/article33689755.ece
29 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Sandalwood plantation in State mooted||As part of its efforts to divert farmers from traditional crops to cultivating other crops to get better income, the State government is exploring the possibility of encouraging farmers to take up sandalwood plantations, with buy-back facility by the government. This was stated by Minister for Agriculture S. Niranjan Reddy during a visit to the Institute of Wood Science and Technology (IWST) at Bengaluru on Thursday. Stating that sandalwood plantation was a good alternative to raising traditional crops and incurring losses, he said a proposal would be submitted to Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao in this regard. He stated that private companies were entering into agreements with farmers directly on buying back sandalwood after their proper/prescribed growth (15 years). Scientists at IWST explained to the Minister that pruning and wood tests on sandalwood trees would adversely impact their growth and they had to be raised in natural method itself. The minister also had a meeting with Director of IWST M.P. Singh, senior officials H.R. Prabuddha and N. Palanikanth. Later, he visited the head office of Karnataka Soaps & Detergents Ltd, makers of Mysore Sandal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/sandalwood-plantation-in-state-mooted/article33689760.ece
29 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Dial 139 for all railways complaints/emergencies||Indian Railways has taken a decision to merge Railway Security Helpline number 182 into Rail Madad single Helpline number 139 for the convenience of passengers. This integration of both security helpline numbers to a single helpline number, 139, will help passengers make all inquiries, besides lodging grievances too. Earlier, 182 was the security helpline toll free number to provide speedy assistance to passengers in the event of thefts, harassment, pick pocketing or other criminal incidents on trains or rail premises. An Integrated Train Enquiry System “Rail Madad” 139 helpline number was also launched to provide real time feedback to passengers on status of redressal of their complaints. Now the option of uploading photos is available and an unique ID is instantly generated to relay the complaint online to field officials concerned for immediate action and the action taken is also communicated to the passenger through SMS. Web-based complaints can be registered throughwww.railmadad.indian railways.gov.in. The mobile app can be downloaded from Google Play Store or Apple IOS (iphone) store for android or IOS users. The facility registers various complaints like security, child helpline, catering, coach maintenance, accidents, vigilance and general issues for real time and immediate assistance in one easy step, said a press release on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/dial-139-for-all-railways-complaintsemergencies/article33690015.ece
29 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||CS mulls veg. supply to hostels from Ontimamidi||Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar has directed the secretaries and district collectors to examine the possibility of supply of vegetables from Ontimamidi to residential institutions and hostels across the State. The officials were accordingly asked to conduct a feasibility study and prepare an action plan for supplying the vegetables. This would help in getting vegetables at competitive prices and at the same time, benefit vegetable farmers. The Chief Secretary conducted a tele-conference with district collectors, secretaries of welfare departments and secretaries of residential institutions on supply of quality vegetables to various institutions. The meeting followed the surprise visit by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao to Ontimamidi vegetable market on Wednesday, where some farmers poured out their woes regarding collection of excess commissions by agents. The CS wanted the officials concerned to involve youth in procurement and supply of vegetables and if eligible, they should be provided support for transportation of commodities. Collectors were requested to conduct surprise inspections of educational institutions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cs-mulls-veg-supply-to-hostels-from-ontimamidi/article33689745.ece
29 January 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||186 fresh COVID cases in Telangana, one dies||Telangana State reported 186 fresh cases of coronavirus, taking the total to nearly 2.94 lakh while one related fatality pushed the toll to 1,594. Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) accounted for the most number of cases with 35, followed by Rangareddy and Medchal-Malkajgiri with 15 and 12 respectively, the government health bulletin said on Thursday, based on details as of 8 p.m. on January 27. The total number of coronavirus cases stood at 2,93,923 while recoveries were at 2,89,631. As many as 2,698 patients are under treatment and 31,119 samples were tested on Wednesday. Cumulatively, over 77.59 lakh samples have been tested. The samples tested per million population was over 2.08 lakh, the health bulletin said. The case fatality rate in the State was 0.54%, while it was 1.4% at the national level. The recovery rate in Telangana was 98.53%, while it was 96.9% in the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/186-fresh-covid-cases-in-telangana-one-dies/article33689749.ece
29 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||State receives Central grants of Rs. 1,385 cr. for RLBs||The State received Rs. 1,385 crore grant from the Central government towards grant to the rural local bodies (RLBs). The amount forms part of the Rs. 12,351.5 crore released to 18 States as the second instalment of basic grants released in the current financial year. Basic grants, released in line with the 15th Finance Commission recommendations, are untied and they could be used by the local bodies for location-specific needs except for salaries or other establishment expenditure. The grants were meant to ensure additional funds to rural local bodies over and above the funds allocated by the Centre and State for sanitation and drinking water under the Centrally sponsored schemes like Swachh Bharat and Jal Jeevan Mission. The Centre released the grants to the State which provided utilisation certificate for the first instalment and based on the recommendations of the Ministry of Panchayat Raj. The grants had been released with a condition that the States should transfer these funds to the rural local bodies within 10 working days of receipt from the Union government. Any delay beyond 10 working days would mandate the State government to release the grants with interest, according to a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/state-receives-central-grants-of-rs-1385-cr-for-rlbs/article33689764.ece
29 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||New police stations inaugurated||Home Minister Mohammad Mahmood Ali on Thursday appreciated the police’s work during COVID - 19 outbreak and said that they have adopted a friendly policing approach. He was speaking at the inauguration of the new building of the Nampally Law and Order and Traffic Police Stations. Mr Ali also pointed out that representatives from other States have been coming to Telangana to understand its system of policing. He also said that the Telangana Police is the leading police force in the country. DGP M Mahender Reddy pointed out that the Telangana government has sanctioned as many as 19 law and order police stations and six traffic police stations. A single police system has been implemented in the State. Hyderabad Police Commissioner Anjani Kumar said four persons have been trained in each police station and that they are working as receptionists who are assisting victims who approach the police station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/new-police-stations-inaugurated/article33689754.ece
29 January 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘What’s wrong in CBI probing Kaleshwaram?’||Sangareddy MLA T. Jayaprakash Reddy has questioned the objection of Energy Minister G. Jagadish Reddy to the Congress party’s demand for a CBI enquiry into Kaleshwaram project. “What problem has the Minister if there is an inquiry into the corruption. Why is he afraid?,” the Congress MLA asked at a press conference here, further making personal allegations against the Minister. Mr. Reddy took objection to the unsavoury remarks against the TPCC president N. Uttam Kumar Reddy by the Minister and asked where was the comparison between the Minister and the TPCC president. “Our leader was an officer in the Indian Air Force and what is the stature of Jagadish Reddy to even comment on Mr. Uttam Reddy?” he asked. He also ridiculed the comments of Jagadish Reddy against the first Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru. “People without any character have the gall to comment on Pandit Nehru,” he said and warned the Minister that he would face the ire of the people. “Who is Jagadish Reddy if Congress had not given Telangana,” he asked questioning the political existence of the Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/whats-wrong-in-cbi-probing-kaleshwaram/article33689775.ece
29 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Panel to study Mallannasagar design, technical issues||The State government has constituted a seven-member technical committee to resolve technical issues, issues related to designs, stability analysis, vetting of designs and any other issue related to Mallannasagar reservoir, a major component of Kaleshwaram project in Siddipet district, on Thursday. According to the orders issued by Principal Secretary (Irrigation) Rajat Kumar, the committee has been constituted after a proposal was made by Engineer-in-Chief (ENC). Engineer-in-Chief (General) C. Muralidhar will head the committee as its Chairman and ENC (Irrigation) at Gajwel B. Hariram will be its member-convenor. Chief Engineer K.S.S. Chandrashekar, Dr. Uma Shankar from IIT Hyderabad, Head of Geo-Technical Department in Osmania University Prof. M.V.S. Sridhar, geo-technical expert (scientist) from CWPRS, Pune and senior engineering geologist from GSI will be its members.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/panel-to-study-mallannasagar-design-and-technical-issues/article33689759.ece
29 January 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Minor fire at restaurant||A minor fire was reported on Thursday at the Gachibowli branch of Shah Ghouse, a popular chain of restaurants. There were no casualties. Firemen reached the spot and doused the flames which is said to be of electrical origin. A case has been booked and an investigation is underway.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/minor-fire-at-restaurant/article33690016.ece
29 January 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Youth stabbed||A youth was stabbed late on Wednesday night in the Balapur Police Station limits. The victim has been identified as Md Faisal (26). According to police, it was the victim’s acquaintance Md Fahaad who allegedly stabbed him over disagreements.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/youth-stabbed/article33690017.ece
29 January 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||200 booked for role in e-ticketing rackets||More than 200 persons were booked for their involvement in illegal e-ticketing rackets and Tatkal train tickets worth Rs. 2.3 crore were seized from them during special drives conducted in the South Central Railway (SCR) zone in the past few months, said G M Eswara Rao, Inspector General cum Principal Chief Security Commissioner, South Central Railway. Mr Rao inaugurated the new office building of the RPF at the railway station in the town on Thursday. Collector R V Karnan, Khammam Police Commissioner Tafseer Iqbal, the RPF Inspector, Khammam, K Madhusudhan and others were present. Speaking to mediapersons on the occasion, Mr Rao said the RPF conducted special drives after noticing that some unscrupulous elements were booking Tatkal e-tickets in large numbers using illegal softwares and fake IDs thereby blocking the e-tickets in the SCR zone. The special drives helped in weeding out the menace of the illegal software and making the Tatkal tickets available for the passengers on the e-ticketing official website. Contraband goods like Ganja worth about Rs. 2 crore were seized during checking of trains by the RPF teams in the zone in recent months. The RPF’s “Meri Saheli” initiative aimed at ensuring better safety of women passengers travelling alone on trains received positive feedback from all quarters, Mr Rao said, adding that the RPF recruited as many as 600 new staff including constables and sub-inspectors in the SCR zone. Among them 300 are women personnel, he noted saying the move would help serve women passengers more effectively. Lauding Khammam RPF Inspector Mr Madhusudhan for receiving the prestigious Indian Police Medal for his distinguished services, he commended the Khammam RPF for its pioneering initiatives to extend timely help to needy passengers particularly women and children in distress. He heaped praises on the RPF team for helping the needy during the COVID-19 lockdown and thereafter apart from discharging their designated duties of protecting the railway properties and ensuring safety of passengers with diligence. The social workers of several NGOs including Annam Srinivas Rao of Annam Seva Foundation and the Childline India (1098) and others were felicitated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/200-booked-for-role-in-e-ticketing-rackets/article33689777.ece
29 January 2021||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Green cover in Telangana up by 3.5%, says Harish Rao||Finance Minister T. Harish Rao said the green cover in the State has increased by 3.5% after the formation of Telangana. Addressing a gathering after inaugurating Tejovanam Urban Forest Park on the outskirts of the district headquarters on Thursday, Mr. Rao said the increase of green cover would offer fresh air and environment, in addition to reducing stress. He suggested planting and nurturing saplings should be part of one’s life. “Telangana is the only State that has been sparing about 10% of budget from the local bodies for greenery. Increase of greenery was made possible with proper plan of action and implementing it. This was established on about 500 acres at a cost of Rs. 4.5 crore. As many as 109 urban parks are proposed in the State, and already 35 parks, including the latest one in Siddipet, were inaugurated,” said Mr. Rao adding that about 100 acres at this place was specially allotted for oxygen park. Facilities for cycling track, walking, yoga and meditation were also established in the park. Stating that Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has been focusing on increasing the green cover from the very beginning, the Finance Minister said that this is as good as offering an asset to the future generations. He called upon people to make sapling plantation and protecting them a part of their social responsibility. Meanwhile, Mr. Rao said that the damaged pipelines due to railway work at Gajwel will be repaired with Mission Bhagiratha funds. He said that these roads were damaged due to Road Over Bridge works. The Minister held a review meeting with the South Central Railway Chief Engineer Sudharma, Mission Bhagiratha Superintendent Engineer Srinivasa Chary and Gajwel Area Development Authority (GADA) special officer A. Muthyam Reddy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/green-cover-in-telangana-up-by-35-says-harish-rao/article33690014.ece
29 January 2021||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Singaram village in Siddipet getting vacated||Slowly, but surely, the path is getting cleared for Mallannasagar. A few weeks ago, Erravalli, one of the two villages in Kondapaka mandal of Gajwel Assembly constituency got vacated and the villagers were provided temporary accommodation at Sangapur where double bedroom houses were constructed for the poor. They will be provided permanent accommodation at Mutrajpalli, where about 6,000 houses for the oustees of Mallannasagar are coming up. Rampur and Lakhmapur were already vacated for Mallannasagar. From Wednesday, another village, Singaram, was getting vacated. When a large number of oustees from the village had arrived at Sangapur, some of them were reportedly asked to go back to the native village stating that accommodation was available for a few. “Accommodation is being provided for those residing in the village. Those who had already left the village and are working at other places like Hyderabad, Siddipet and Gajwel were asked to wait till permanent housing at Mutrajpally was completed. Some of the houses were completed and some others were yet to be completed. In addition, facilities like water and drainage were yet to be provided,” Gulam Gouse Mohiddudin Iqbal, a villager, told The Hindu . More than 100 families have already vacated the village and 80 families are there in the village. It was stated that in the next one week they would also leave the village. “Complete compensation was not be paid for some oustees. They fear that the oustees may not get all compensations once they vacate the village. Some of the oustees are referring to the experiences of of other villagers who are yet to get total compensation. But for us, probably, there is no other go but to leave the village,” said Venakata Reddy, a native of the village.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/singaram-village-in-siddipet-getting-vacated/article33690020.ece
29 January 2021||bhubaneswar,||Villagers force family to perform last rites for their living child||A family was forced to perform symbolic last rites for a seven-year-old boy, as he had “unusual hair growth in the body” in Ganjam district in Odisha. The Ganjam district administration has ordered a probe into the incident and sanctioned Rs. 10,000 towards immediate assistance from the Chief Minister Relief Fund. The Tahsildar and the Inspector in charge of the local police station were asked to submit a report on the issue. The elder son of Ramachandra Nayak of Baghua village under the Jagannath Prasad block of Ganjam district has been suffering from a disorder that resulted in unusual hair growth in his body. “In 2018, the health problem of my son was highlighted in different media. As we are very poor, the district administration stepped in to facilitate treatment,” said Mr. Nayak. It is said that the parents did not follow the prescription or provide further treatment as result of which the boy developed wounds and had maggots in his scalp. In December, the boy was again taken to hospital where the wound healed after treatment. Family ostracised Then family was reported to have been ostracised. Villagers reportedly asked the family to perform symbolic last rituals. The family was even directed to host a community feast. “Since I am a daily labourer, I had to borrow Rs. 10,000 for a community feast. I conducted the rituals in a forest away from village. Our family members were forced to gulp down cow dung,” said Mr. Nayak.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/villagers-force-family-to-perform-last-rites-for-their-living-child/article33689956.ece
29 January 2021||Chandigarh,||Second shooter held in Sandhu murder case||Punjab Police on Tuesday arrested Inderjeet Singh, the second shooter allegedly involved in the killing of Shaurya Chakra awardee Balwinder Singh Sandhu in October last year at his native Bhikhiwind village in Tarn Taran district. The suspect was nabbed from Mumbai’s Chhatrapati Shivaji International Airport, hours before he was scheduled to board a flight to Dubai. According to the police, Sandhu was shot dead by Inderjeet and Gurjit Singh alias Bhaa. Director General of Police Dinkar Gupta said Gurjit Singh was arrested by the Delhi police on December 7 last, along with his associate, Sukhjeet Singh alias Bura. He said while Gurjit and Inderjeet Singh carried out the shooting, Sukhjeet had stationed himself a little away from the spot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/second-shooter-held-in-sandhu-murder-case/article33689955.ece
29 January 2021||Ghaziabad,||Protesters removed from Baghpat-Saharanpur site||The Baghpat administration removed the farmers protesting on Baghpat-Saharanpur highway in Baraut town of the district on Wednesday night. The farmers were protesting against farm laws at the site for many days. The videos of the eviction purportedly show policemen holding batons asking aged farmers to move out of the tents at night. Protesters could be seen rushing out with their belongings. Amit Kumar Singh, ADM, Baghpat, said the protesters were removed after the administration got a letter from the National Highway Authority of India wherein it said the construction work was hampered because of the agitation. He said farmers were peacefully removed and no force was used. Alok Singh, Circle Officer, Baraut, said the farmers were protesting on highway where construction work had to be done. “The work of NHAI is pending, their project cost is escalating,” he said. On whether they had been given any other site in the town to protest, Mr. Singh said “there is no other protest site.” On the hurry to remove elderly farmers after daylight, Mr Singh said it was not because of law and order problem. “Nobody was troubled. There was pleasant weather yesterday. Anyway there is no difference between day and night in towns. Everything is peaceful,” he maintained.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/protesters-removed-from-baghpat-saharanpur-site/article33689625.ece
29 January 2021||GURUGRAM,||Farmers vacate stir site on Delhi-Agra highway||Hundreds of farmers, mostly from parts of Madhya Pradesh, vacated the sit-in site on Delhi-Agra highway at Palwal on Thursday after the police served them notices with regard to the violence on the Republic Day. The Palwal Police had on Wednesday registered case against 2,000-odd unidentified people on charges of attempt to murder, among others, under the Indian Penal Code. Jaswant Singh, one of the farmers at the protest site, said they had decided to leave and return to their homes in Madhya Pradesh’s Gwalior for the time being, but vowed that they would return back in larger numbers. “Our numbers have dwindled over the past few days. So we have decided to leave for the time being. But we would return with greater strength,” said Mr. Singh. He said they were facing opposition from the locals as well after the violence on Republic Day. Superintendent of Police, Palwal, Deepak Gahlawat said the protesters were threatened with legal action in connection with the violence and were told to leave following which they decided to vacate the premises. Deputy Commissioner Naresh Narwal confirmed that the site was vacated and the traffic on the highway resumed. Around half-a-dozen separate groups of farmers from Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh were holding the sit-in at Palwal for almost two months now blocking the highway. It is the second protest site to be vacated in Haryana over the past 24 hours. Earlier farmers holding a sit-in at Masani barrage in Rewari’s Dharuhera on Delhi-Jaipur Highway were forced to leave on Wednesday following opposition from the locals in the wake of the violence on the Republic Day in Delhi. Most of the agitating farmers went to the Shahjahanpur protest site at Haryana-Rajasthan border.  Khap meet convened In a related development, Dadri MLA and Sangwan Khap president Sombir Sangwan has convened a meeting of Khap leaders from across Haryana at Rohtak on Friday to discuss the future course of action on the farmers agitation. Mr. Sangwan said the farmers were determined to take forward the agitation in support of their demands and a meeting has been called to discuss the strategy for it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/farmers-vacate-stir-site-on-delhi-agra-highway/article33689622.ece
29 January 2021||GURUGRAM,||Accept demands of farmers, Hooda appeals to Central govt.||Former Haryana Chief Minister and Leader of the Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Thursday again appealed to the government to accept the demands of the farmers. He said that farmers were continuing their agitation in extremely harsh conditions and the government should adopt sensitive attitude and accept their demands soon so that the farmers can return to their homes. Addressing a press conference in Rohtak, Mr. Hooda said that he had been supporting the farmers’ demands since day one and would continue to do so. He condemned the violence at the Red Fort during the tractor parade and said that these incidents were clearly aimed at disrupting the movement. Fair investigation Mr. Hooda said a fair and impartial investigation was needed to identify the people who came to the Red Fort with the intention of disrupting and derailing the disciplined and peaceful farmer’s movement. He said lakhs of farmers had reached Delhi to be part of the tractor parade and despite such a large number, there was no news of any confrontation, indiscipline or any kind of unwanted activity, except from one place. The Leader of the Opposition said the three agricultural laws would not benefit the farmers. “Like the Punjab government, the Haryana government should also provide financial help and a job to the families of the martyred farmers,” he said. On a question over Abhay Chautala’s resignation, Mr. Hooda said that his resignation would benefit the government and not the farmers. “We are going to bring a no-confidence motion against the government in the State Assembly and the resignation of Abhay Chautala has reduced one vote of the Opposition. The coalition will now need 45 votes instead of 46 to save the government,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/accept-demands-of-farmers-hooda-appeals-to-central-govt/article33689619.ece
29 January 2021||JAIPUR,||Over 76% polling for urban local bodies in Rajasthan||Over 76% of the voters cast their votes in the elections to 90 urban local bodies in 20 districts of Rajasthan on Thursday. The polling was held to elect 3,035 ward members of municipal bodies from among 9,930 candidates who were in the fray. The highest turnout at 94.5% was registered at Pokhran in Jaisalmer district. The 90 urban local bodies, which went to polls, included 80 municipalities, nine municipal councils and one municipal corporation. As many as 13 of these municipal bodies fall in the Assembly constituencies of five Ministers and a Deputy Chief Whip of the ruling Congress party. The local body polls were a test for the Ministers as well as the Congress MLAs, as their results will be an indication of public perception about their work and strength in their respective constituencies ahead of the State Cabinet reshuffle. The prestige of several senior Opposition BJP leaders and MLAs was also at stake in some urban body areas.  Counting on January 31 The election results will be announced after counting of votes on January 31, while the chairpersons of municipal bodies will be elected on February 7. The voters exercised their franchise through electronic voting machines at 5,253 polling booths, according to the Election Department. There were 30.28 lakh registered voters in the 90 local body areas. The elections took place in Ajmer, Banswara, Bikaner, Bhilwara, Bundi, Pratapgarh, Chittorgarh, Churu, Dungarpur, Hanumangarh, Jaisalmer, Jalore, Jhalawar, Jhunjhunu, Nagaur, Pali, Rajsamand, Sikar, Tonk and Udaipur districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/over-76-polling-for-urban-local-bodies-in-rajasthan/article33689954.ece
29 January 2021||JAIPUR,||Fugitive gangster held after 16-month hunt||Fugitive gangster Vikram Gujjar alias Papla, the most wanted criminal in Rajasthan carrying a reward of Rs. 5 lakh on his head, was arrested from Kolhapur in Maharashtra on Thursday after a 16-month-long hunt. The 29-year-old gangster, hailing from Haryana’s Mahendragarh district, is also wanted in several criminal cases in his native State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/fugitive-gangster-held-after-16-month-hunt/article33689624.ece
29 January 2021||Mumbai,||Four foreigners held in fake job racket in Pune||Four foreign nationals have been arrested from Pune for allegedly cheating several people of lakhs of rupees with the promise of jobs abroad, police said on Thursday. A team of the cyber police from the Mumbai Crime Branch raided a flat in Undri area of Pune and apprehended the four accused on Wednesday. The arrested accused include Nigerian and West African nationals who allegedly got in touch with at least 2,000 job seekers of various countries and cheated them. Fourteen mobile phones, four laptops, three memory cards, five routers, a data card, two international SIM cards were recovered from the premises. During the investigation, the police found that the accused had transferred at least Rs. 10 crore to a Nigerian bank. The accused had collected this amount from job seekers in the form of visa fees, programme fees, employment authorisation and travel allowance. The racket came to light on January 15, when Chembur resident Vishal Mandavkar approached the cyber police with the complaint of fraud. Mr. Mandavkar had responded to an ad about a job at a hotel in Canada and mailed his resume, following which he was asked to deposit Rs. 17.22 lakh as visa fee, programme fee, employment authorisation and travel allowance. Once the amount was paid, the contact person stopped responding to the complainant’s calls, it was stated. The accused had used 64 bank accounts of 12 Indian banks to collect money from job seekers. The police have recovered at least 2,500 people’s passport data.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/four-foreigners-held-in-fake-job-racket-in-pune/article33689872.ece
29 January 2021||Mumbai,||Celebrities, comedians express anguish as HC rejects Munawar Faruqui’s bail plea||Comedians Neeti Palta, Anuvab Pal and director Onir are a few names from the entertainment industry who have expressed disappointment over Madhya Pradesh High Court’s decision of turning down the bail plea of comedian Munawar Faruqui, who is accused of passing “indecent” remarks on Hindu deities during a show in Indore. Liberty of a person has to be “balanced” with his duties towards other citizens, Justice Rohit Arya of the Indore Bench of the high court said, citing a Supreme Court ruling. Mr. Onir called the order a “vindictive prosecution” against an artiste belonging to a minority community for “something he did not say”. The court noted defence lawyers’ argument that Mr. Faruqui had come to Indore on an invitation by organisers, and did not say anything that has been alleged. However, in the light of the statements of the complainant and witnesses and video footage of the show, “at this stage it is difficult to countenance to the submissions of the learned counsel for the applicant as complacency of the applicant cannot be ruled out”, the court said. “It is not a case of no evidence. More so, the investigation is in progress,” the court added. Mr. Palta tweeted: “Since the streets belong to hooligans, criminals & vigilantes, it makes sense that activists, journalists and comedians have shifted base to jails. #nojustice” Aditi Mittal, another comic, quipped that Justice Arya must be now be “referred to as ‘Injustice Rohit Arya’,” while commenting on a tweet about the court’s order. Mr. Pal shared a photo of the quote by Ugandan dictator Idi Amin — ‘There is freedom of speech, but I cannot guarantee freedom after speech.’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/celebrities-comedians-express-anguish-as-hc-rejects-munawar-faruquis-bail-plea/article33689871.ece
29 January 2021||Mumbai,||Omkar Group promoters remanded in ED custody||A special Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) court has remanded Babulal Varma and Kamal Kishore Gupta, promoters of Omkar Group, in the custody of the Enforcement Directorate (ED) till January 30 in a Rs. 22 crore slum rehabilitation fraud case. The duo was arrested on Wednesday, a day after raids on 10 residential and official properties of Omkar Realtors and Developers. Incriminating documents, including digital evidence, were seized in the raid. ED’s counsel Hiten Venegavkar told the court that the investigation was initiated after the Aurangabad Police registered an FIR against the accused under Sections 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention), 406 (punishment for criminal breach of trust), and 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property) of the Indian Penal Code. ED’s remand copy said, “Omkar Realtors and Developers Private Limited and its directors bought a firm, Surana Construction, which had Slum Rehabilitation Authority’s (SRA) rights for redevelopment of Anand Nagar SRA Cooperative Housing Society, Wadala. However, Omkar Group and its promoters did not pay dues to the seller, mortgaged future floor space index (FSI) of the project, and took huge amounts of loan.” The agency said that its investigation revealed loans worth Rs. 410 crore were diverted and not used for intended purposes. “No work of the SRA building was undertaken. The requisite rules and procedures under SRA were ignored and documents relating to names of slum dwellers were forged to claim more FSI for mortgaging it with banks for taking loans,” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/omkar-group-promoters-remanded-in-ed-custody/article33689877.ece
29 January 2021||Mumbai,||Consider Rao’s offence when deciding on bail plea: NIA to HC||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) told the Bombay High Court on Thursday that poet Varavara Rao was an accused in a case of national security and while considering his ill health and plea for bail on medical grounds, it must not lose sight of the seriousness of the offence. The NIA made the submission while opposing the bail plea of Mr. Rao, who was arrested in the Bhima-Koregaon violence case. Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh, who appeared for the NIA, told the HC that there were many undertrials in Maharashtra who were suffering from various ailments and being given requisite medical care by the State while in prison. Mr. Singh was responding to a suggestion made by a Bench of Justices S.S. Shinde and Manish Pitale that given his ailing health and advanced age, perhaps Mr. Rao could be granted bail under strict conditions to ensure he remained within the court’s jurisdiction. “What is the quality of life of an 82-year-old in detention? Is it worth to wait for another emergency to happen to take him to Nanavati (Hospital) only because we reject his bail because of your (NIA’s) apprehension?” the bench said. “Can it (bail) not be met with a condition? That he be kept within the jurisdiction of this court,” it said. The court noted that in a previous hearing last month, the State’s counsel, Deepak Thakare, had said that the charges in the case were yet to be framed and that 200 witnesses remained to be examined. Therefore, it could take some time for the trial to begin in the case. Mr. Singh, however, said instead of imposing conditions on Mr. Rao’s bail, the court could impose conditions on the State to ensure that he was given good medical care in prison.  The HC, however, remarked that it was the State’s responsibility to provide requisite medical care to undertrials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/consider-raos-offence-when-deciding-on-bail-plea-nia-to-hc/article33689876.ece
29 January 2021||New Delhi,||‘Finalise policy on rare diseases by March 31’||The Delhi High Court on Thursday directed the Centre to finalise the National Health Policy for Rare Diseases of 2020 by March 31 and make operational provision of crowdfunding envisaged under the law for treatment of high-cost rare diseases. Justice Prathiba M. Singh passed the direction while hearing two different pleas concerning children, who are suffering from duchenne muscular dystrophy, a condition that causes progressive muscle degeneration and weakness in the victim. The court issued the direction to finalise the policy and operationalise the digital platform by March 31. The draft policy has a section where the government proposed crowdfunding for treatment of high-cost rare diseases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/finalise-policy-on-rare-diseases-by-march-31/article33689618.ece
29 January 2021||Patna,||Social scientist Shaibal Gupta passes away||Patna-based social scientist and popular economist Shaibal Gupta passed away on Thursday. Mr. Gupta founded the Asian Development Research Institute (ADRI) and was member-secretary of it since the beginning. In 2016, the ADRI under his leadership had celebrated its 25-years of excellence with a programme attended by several world-famous academicians and scholars. Mr. Gupta was so popular a social scientist that every visiting academician or journalist from across the world to Bihar ensured to drop in his office or residence in Buddha Marg here for insights of issues related to their subject.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/social-scientist-shaibal-gupta-passes-away/article33689623.ece
29 January 2021||Pune,||‘Delay in implementing Maratha quota law could spark outrage’||Exhorting Maharashtra’s leaders to stop indulging in politics over the Maratha quota, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Rajya Sabha MP Udayanraje Bhosale, a direct descendant of the Maratha king Chhatrapati Shivaji, has warned that the delay in implementing the reservation law could spark uncontrollable outrage among the community in the State. Rebuking the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government for its tardiness in ensuring the implementation of the Maratha quota law, Mr. Bhosale said that the simmering resentment among the Maratha community was in real danger of spilling over. “If that happens, things could go out of hand. So, I urge every leader in the State not to wait until this moment and instead act fast… every MP and MLA in the State has a sizable Maratha electorate in his or her constituency. So, it is pointless to discriminate one community against another,” said the Rajya Sabha MP from Satara. He said it was in every leader’s interest to see that justice was done for the Maratha community. Mr. Bhosale shared the dais with his rival and cousin, BJP legislator Shivendraraje Bhosale (another descendant of Chhatrapati Shivaji), at a function in Satara, where they urged the State’s politicians to close ranks over the issue. ‘Merit-based approach’ Earlier, Mr. Bhosale said if the MVA government failed to get the Maratha quota law implemented, then reservation for all communities ought to be scrapped. Mr. Bhosale had called for a merit-based approach instead. On Thursday, Mr. Udayanraje Bhosale said the Maratha community did not want a quota whose benefits were sliced off from the OBC reservation. “Do not give us [the Maratha community] a quota while disadvantaging other communities. Our point is when all other backward communities are availing of reservation benefits, then why is that the Maratha community is being excluded?” he asked. Mr. Bhosale observed that it was a fallacy in perceiving the Maratha community as ‘upwardly mobile’ just because some of its community members were stalwarts in a number of areas. ‘Future looks bleak’ “The condition of labourers and students within the Maratha community is especially parlous… several of them are financially disadvantaged. Today, Maratha students are passed over despite securing more marks than their counterparts from other reserved communities,” he said, stating that the future looked bleak for these students. Mr. Bhosale further urged the community not to vote for those leaders in elections who did not stand up for their rights. Mr. Bhosale was earlier with Sharad Pawar’s Nationalist Congress Party (NCP). He joined the BJP before the last Lok Sabha elections, only to be trounced by the NCP’s Shriniwas Patil. The storm of the Maratha agitation throughout 2018 saw Mr. Bhosale cast in the role of a possibly important mediator between the community’s interests and the then BJP government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/delay-in-implementing-maratha-quota-law-could-spark-outrage/article33689874.ece
29 January 2021||Pune,||3,181 recoveries, 2,889 new cases in Maharashtra; active cases dip||COVID-19 recoveries outpaced new cases yet again in Maharashtra on Thursday, with 3,181 patients being discharged as opposed to 2,889 new cases. Active cases have dipped to 43,048 and the total case tally has reached 20,18,413. Fifty fatalities saw the total death toll climb to 50,944. The case positivity rate has dipped below the 14% mark, while cumulative recoveries stand at 19,23,187. The State’s recovery rate is 95.28% and the case fatality rate is 2.52%. “Of 1,44,30,223 laboratory samples tested thus far, 20,15,524 (with the case positivity rate down to 13.99%) have returned positive with over 63,000 samples being tested in the last 24 hours,” said State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate. Pune reported over 300 new cases to take its tally to 3,87,119. Fifteen deaths were reported to take its toll to 7,925. As per the district administration, active cases stand at 4,768, while the recovery rate is 96.37%. Mumbai reported 394 new cases to take its case tally to 3,07,569, of which 5,521 are active. Seven fatalities saw the toll reach 11,330. Nagpur district reported nearly 300 new cases, taking the district’s case tally to 1,34,921, of which 3,408 are currently active. Four deaths saw the total death toll reach 3,347. In western Maharashtra, Satara reported three deaths while 52 fresh cases saw the total case tally rise to 56,211, of which just 697 are active. Its death toll stands at 1814. Neighbouring Sangli reported just 31 cases and no deaths as the case load reached 50,786, of which 567 are active. Its death toll stands at 1,780. Kolhapur reported just 15 cases and zero fatalities as its tally reached 49,108, of which just 207 are active. The total death toll stands at 1,671. In north Maharashtra, Nashik district reported more than 200 cases and six fatalities as its total case tally reached 120,742, of which 1,165 are active. Its death toll stands at 1,990. Neighbouring Jalgaon district reported just 40 new cases and no deaths as its total case tally reached 57,312, of which only 455 are active, while its death toll stands at 1,474. A total of 1,97,941 people across the State are in home quarantine, while 2,804 are in institutional quarantine facilities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/3181-recoveries-2889-new-cases-in-maharashtra-active-cases-dip/article33689875.ece
29 January 2021||January 29 2021 00:00 IST,||‘U.S. will rejoin deal if Iran is compliant’||On his first full day on the job, U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken confirmed the administration’s position that if Iran were to become compliant with the terms of the now defunct Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA, or the “Iran deal”), the U.S. would re-enter it too. The Trump administration had pulled out of the deal in 2018. “With regard to Iran, President Biden has been very clear in saying that if Iran comes back into full compliance with its obligations under the JCPOA, the United States would do the same thing and then we would use that as a platform to build, with our allies and partners, what we called a longer and stronger agreement and to deal with a number of other issues that are deeply problematic in the relationship with Iran,” Mr. Blinken told reporters during his first briefing as Secretary. Out of compliance “But we are a long way from that point. Iran is out of compliance on a number of fronts. And it would take some time, should it make the decision to do so, for it to come back into compliance in time for us then to assess whether it was meeting its obligations,” Mr. Blinken said. The Secretary said he would constitute a team of experts to advise on how to engage with Iran, should Iran come back into compliance with the JCPOA. Mr. Bliken, who had said at his confirmation hearing that America would approach the world with “humility and confidence”, told reporters that the new team would be “ constantly questioning our own assumptions and premises” , not engaging in groupthink and that there would be self-reflection and self-criticism when confronted with foreign policy issues.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-will-rejoin-deal-if-iran-is-compliant/article33689328.ece
29 January 2021||January 29 2021 00:00 IST,||New Zealand tops COVID-19 performance ranking||New Zealand and Vietnam were ranked the best performing countries in their response to the pandemic, according to a COVID-19 “performance index” put together by the Lowy Institute, an Australian think tank, which sought to assess the impact of geography, political systems and economic development in assessing outcomes. The index, which was based on six different indicators, including confirmed cases and deaths per million people and the scale of testing, sought “to gauge the relative performance of countries”, assessing 98 countries in the 36 weeks that followed their hundredth case. “Fewer reported cases and deaths, both in aggregate and per capita terms, point towards a better response to the virus,” the Sydney-based think tank said. “More tests conducted on a per capita basis reveal a more accurate picture of the extent of the pandemic at the national level. Lower rates of positive tests, meanwhile, indicate greater degrees of control over the transmission of COVID-19.” U.S., Brazil worst India ranked 86 out of 98 countries, while the U.S. stood at 94 and Brazil at the bottom of the index. Taiwan, Thailand and Cyprus were in the top five. Sri Lanka was the best faring nation in South Asia, ranking 10, while the Maldives was at 25, Pakistan at 69, Nepal at 70, and Bangladesh at 84. The think tank said China was not included “due to a lack of publicly available data on testing”.  Assessing regional responses, the institute found that although the outbreak began in China, the Asia-Pacific region fared the best, while Europe and the U.S. were initially overwhelmed. Europe, however, “registered the greatest improvement over time of any region” before succumbing to a second wave, which it attributed to more open borders. Population size was one factor. Smaller countries with fewer than 10 million people “consistently outperformed their larger counterparts throughout 2020”. The level of economic development and regime-type were less significant than expected, which it attributed to “the relatively ‘low-tech’ nature of the health measures used to mitigate the spread of the virus” which “may have created a more level playing field between developed and developing countries”. “In general, countries with smaller populations, cohesive societies, and capable institutions have a comparative advantage in dealing with a global crisis such as a pandemic,” the think tank concluded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/new-zealand-tops-covid-19-performance-ranking/article33689331.ece
29 January 2021||COLOMBO,||Rajapaksa thanks India as vaccines arrive in Sri Lanka||Sri Lanka on Thursday received 5,00,000 doses of COVID-19 vaccine gifted by India, the country’s first consignment as the island nation prepares to begin its roll-out. President Gotabaya Rajapaksa, who received the vaccines from the Indian High Commissioner at the Bandaranaike International Airport on Thursday morning, tweeted: “Received 500,000 #COVID19 vaccines provided by #peopleofindia at #BIA today(28). Thank you! PM Shri @narendramodi & #peopleofindia for the generosity shown towards #PeopleofSriLanka at this time in need.” Vaccination will commence on Friday at six main hospitals in Sri Lanka’s Western Province, a statement from President Rajapaksa’s office said. “Around 1,50,000 health workers, 120,000 members of the tri-Forces, police and security forces who are at the frontline of COVID prevention operations will be given first priority,” the statement said. Sri Lanka’s public health sector, along with the military, has been leading the country’s response to the pandemic, since it struck the island in March 2020. Sri Lanka, which controlled the first wave effectively, is currently witnessing a surge in the coronavirus cases, with the number of positive patients and deaths going up from 3,300 and 13, respectively, in early October to 60,694 infections and 290 deaths as of Thursday. In addition to reporting the recent U.K.-variant of the virus, scientists in Sri Lanka earlier this week identified another new strain, reported in countries such as Switzerland, Denmark, Iceland, and Germany. India donated the vaccines to Sri Lanka following a request President Rajapaksa made to Prime Minister Narendra Modi. External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar, who was in Colombo earlier this month, had assured Sri Lanka that India would give it “top priority” while dispatching vaccines in the region. Over the past few weeks, the Maldives, Bhutan, Bangladesh, Nepal and Myanmar in the neighbourhood received vaccines from India, in addition to Mauritius, Seychelles, and Brazil and Morocco, that received them on a commercial arrangement. The Indian High Commission in Colombo, on the eve of the arrival of the vaccines said, the consignment of COVISHIELD vaccine was arriving on the “auspicious Duruthu Poya Day” [full moon], in what it called “a remarkable coincidence”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/rajapaksa-thanks-india-as-vaccines-arrive-in-sri-lanka/article33689324.ece
29 January 2021||Islamabad,||Don’t lift ban on Durrani’s foreign travel, Pak. govt. appeals in court||The Ministry of Defence in Pakistan has urged the Islamabad High Court that it should not lift a ban on foreign travels of former spy master Lt. Gen. Asad Durrani (retired), saying he has been in contact with anti-state elements from other countries since 2008, a media report said on Wednesday. Mr. Durrani, who headed the Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) from August 1990 to March 1993, had approached the court last year, urging it to remove his name from the no fly list. In contact with RAW In a written response to the petition, the Ministry said it had “evidence” which suggested that Mr. Durrani remained in contact with India’s Research and Analysis Wing. It also claimed to have evidence which suggested that Mr. Durrani had been in contact with anti-state elements from other countries since 2008. The court proceedings in the petition filed by the former ISI chief will commence in the second week of February, Geo News reported. Mr. Durrani, 79, who also served as the Director-General of the Military Intelligence in 1988, ran into hot waters in 2018 by co-authoring a book, titled The Spy Chronicles: RAW, ISI and the Illusion of Peace, with former R&AW chief A.S. Dulat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/dont-lift-ban-on-durranis-foreign-travel-pak-govt-appeals-in-court/article33689326.ece
29 January 2021||January 29 2021 00:00 IST,||‘India’s UNSC seat a matter of discussion’||In response to a question on whether India, Germany and Japan should become permanent members of the United Nations Security Council (UNSC), U.S. President Joe Biden’s pick for UN Ambassador Linda Thomas-Greenfield said discussions on the subject were under way. She noted that there were arguments for and opinions against these countries becoming permanent members. “There are some strong arguments for that but I also know that there are others who disagree within their regions that they should be the representative of their region. That too is an ongoing discussion,” she said during her Senate confirmation hearing. UFC group Ms. Thomas-Greenfield was presumably referring to the opposition that the Uniting for Consensus (UFC) group — Pakistan, South Korea, Italy and Argentina — has to the G4 (Brazil, Germany, Japan and Italy) becoming permanent members. In addition, China opposes permanent membership for India and Japan. The U.S. has for some years supported India’s permanent membership to the Council — with former President Barack Obama declaring his country’s support in his address to Parliament in 2010. In 2017, former President Donald Trump reaffirmed the U.S.’s support for the idea in a joint communique issued during Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to the White House. “Recognizing India’s growing role on the world stage, the Obama-Biden Administration formally declared U.S. support for India’s membership in a reformed and expandedUnited Nations Security Council,” Mr Biden’s campaign website had said. India has just embarked on a two-year non-permanent term at the UNSC. Ms. Thomas-Greenfield, a former Ambassador, who is likely to be confirmed soon, was grilled by Senators on a speech she gave in 2019 at the Savannah State University, which was sponsored by the Confucius Institute, established by the Chinese government to promote Chinese culture and language abroad. She expressed regret at having given the talk and said she was surprised by the Institute’s predatory activities — which she discovered later — in high schools and elementary schools. “We know that China is working across the UN system to drive an authoritarian agenda that stands in opposition to the values of the institution,” Ms. Thomas-Greenfield said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/indias-unsc-seat-a-matter-of-discussion/article33689330.ece
29 January 2021||Washington,||Biden warns Beijing over ‘expansionism’||A week into the job, U.S. President Joe Biden has sent a clear warning to Beijing against any expansionist intentions in East and Southeast Asia. In multiple calls and statements, he and his top security officials have underscored support for allies Japan, South Korea, Taiwan and the Philippines, signalling Washington’s rejection of China’s disputed territorial claims in those areas. On Wednesday, Mr. Biden told Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga that his administration is committed to defending Japan, including the Senkaku Islands, which are claimed both by Japan and China, which calls them the Diaoyu Islands. Tough stance That stance was echoed by Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin, who told Japanese counterpart Nobuo Kishi on Saturday that the contested islands were covered by the U.S.-Japan Security Treaty. He affirmed that the U.S. “remains opposed to any unilateral attempts to change the status quo in the East China Sea”, according to a Pentagon statement. Meanwhile, three days into the Biden administration, State Department spokesman Ned Price warned China about menacing Taiwan after it repeatedly sent more than a dozen military fighters and bombers through the island’s air defence zone. “We will stand with friends and allies to advance our shared prosperity security and values in the Indo-Pacific region — and that includes deepening our ties with Democratic Taiwan,” Mr. Price said in a statement. “Our commitment to Taiwan is rock-solid.” ‘Stand with Philippines’ Secretary of State Antony Blinken told his Philippine counterpart on Wednesday that a mutual defence treaty obliging the U.S. to defend the Philippines against attack in the Pacific also applied to the disputed South China Sea — something the Obama administration did not specify. Those comments and others sought to emphasise that the new Biden administration will not deviate from the firm security stance towards China that it inherited from former President Donald Trump.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/biden-warns-beijing-over-expansionism/article33689321.ece
29 January 2021||tehran,||Iran dismisses U.S. call||Iran dismissed on Thursday a call by the U.S. for it to return to full compliance of a nuclear deal first, insisting that it had only taken “remedial measures” since America’s withdrawal. “Reality check for @SecBlinken: The US violated (the) JCPOA,” Iran’s Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif tweeted, referring to the accord by its formal name, the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action. He said that as well as its unilateral withdrawal, the U.S. had also imposed sanctions that “blocked food/medicine to Iranians” and “punished adherence” to a UN resolution. “Now, who should take 1st step? Never forget Trump’s maximum failure,” he added, stressing Iran had “abided by the JCPOA”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/iran-dismisses-us-call/article33689322.ece
29 January 2021||Islamabad,||Pak. SC orders release of Pearl killers||Pakistan’s Supreme Court on Thursday dismissed appeals against the acquittal of British-born al-Qaeda terrorist Ahmed Omar Saeed Sheikh in the kidnapping and murder of Daniel Pearl in 2002 and ordered his release, a judgment denounced by the American journalist’s family as “a complete travesty of justice”. Pearl, the 38-year-old South Asia bureau chief for The Wall Street Journal , was abducted and beheaded while he was in Pakistan investigating a story on the links between the ISI, the country’s powerful spy agency, and the Al-Qaeda. Sheikh and his three aides — Fahad Naseem, Sheikh Adil and Salman Saqib — were convicted and sentenced in the abduction and murder case of Pearl in Karachi in 2002. The murder took place three years after Sheikh, along with Jaish-e-Mohammad chief Masood Azhar and Mushtaq Ahmed Zargar, was released by India in 1999 and given safe passage to Afghanistan in exchange for the nearly 150 passengers of the hijacked Indian Airlines Flight 814.  A three-judge Bench dismissed the Sindh government’s appeal against the Sindh High Court’s decision to overturn the conviction of Sheikh in the murder case. The Bench issued a 2:1 split judgment to uphold the SHC order by rejecting the appeals and ordered that Sheikh should be set free, his lawyer said. The court also ordered the release of the three other accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/pak-sc-orders-release-of-pearl-killers/article33689325.ece
29 January 2021||January 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Why haven’t other sports reached the heights of cricket?||On January 19, precisely a month after being bowled out for its lowest Test score of 36 against Australia, India bounced back to script one of its most memorable series triumphs. Dealing with injuries and insult in varying degrees, the squad fought gallantly to beat the odds and a full-strength opponent to retain the Border-Gavaskar Trophy. The series-clinching three-wicket win at Brisbane — the first for a visiting team since 1988 — was achieved by a team without nine of the regular players who formed the playing XI in the first Test at Adelaide. This fitting finale to India’s tale of guts and glory brought with it the admiration of not only the cricket-playing nations but also sports lovers across disciplines. But why has India not been able to replicate or even remotely match the success of cricket in other sports? R. B. Ramesh and Sharath Kamal discuss this question in a conversation moderated by Rakesh Rao . Edited excerpts: At the outset, let us have your views on this historic triumph. R. B. Ramesh:Initially, it was very disappointing that India got all out for 36. It felt like we didn’t show enough character in a tough environment. I was very curious about how things were going to pan out in the remaining Tests. It was heartening to see the Indian players rise to the occasion after such a debacle and win the second match. The players showed a lot of grit and determination. I was impressed, both as a former player and as a coach, because I always want to understand these things at a personal level so that this information can be shared with prospective students in the future. It was very inspiring to see the manner in which the Indian team bounced back. Sharath Kamal:For me, the biggest takeaway was that this bunch of youngsters who have done really well in Australia are ready, both physically and mentally, to take up the fight against any opposition. For players from India, there’s been a lot of improvement in attitude over the years. Earlier, when Indian teams toured abroad, we did not fare well because of different conditions. I feel the most important reason is that we feel intimidated the moment we go to a foreign land. I don’t see that particular aspect with these new, young players. That’s probably due to the Indian Premier League where Indian players are on a par with foreign players and are treated as equals. Since the Ultimate Table Tennis league began, we are able to talk to some of the leading players in the game at a personal level. We are no longer intimidated by them, by their game or their skill. Therefore, we are able to fight against the best players in the world. There is clearly a shift in the attitude of sportspersons from India. Hats off to what our Test team has done, especially after losing out players due to injuries. Some of the big names, including captain Virat Kohli, were not there. There were a few who were playing for India for the first time and they came out with flying colours. One didn’t feel they were nervous. I’m happy with this kind of spirit and that should be carried to other sports as well. No doubt, over the years, the cricket board has built a structure for coaching, holding tournaments at various levels, training match officials, etc. So what prevents other sporting disciplines from following the cricket model? Is it lack of infrastructure, funding, corporate support… ? RBR:If you look at our cricketing history, we did not reach the place we have reached in just a few years. When India won the 1983 World Cup, it was the first time that we as a cricketing nation became visible on the global stage and people started taking notice of us. It took a couple of decades, at least, for us to evolve and build an ecosystem from which we could produce champions. In India, we did not play chess at the top level in the international arena for many decades after independence. We had to wait for a young Viswanathan Anand, who first became World Junior Champion and then India’s first Grandmaster. When he broke into the top 10 and later into the top five in the world, others started noticing chess. I think the ‘chess revolution’ probably started from the early 1990s. It took another 10 years for Anand to win the world championship. I remember I was 12 years old when I wanted to become a Grandmaster like Anand. That is how I came to the game. There were not many tournaments or international competitions happening in India. There was no Internet. We had chess books from which players learnt their game, but even those were not available in plenty in India. It was mostly learning by trial and error. When we started participating in international competitions, we always had the feeling — at least I had the feeling — that we were kind of inferior to the foreign players. We felt kind of intimidated. You could say that we felt like they were superior to us and we were not good enough. This was always there at the back of my mind. But once we started playing more against overseas participants, we slowly began to realise that there was not a big difference between us and them. Probably, there was a lack of a chess culture here. We realised that once we trained ourselves professionally, we could compete with them at an equal level. It took a few years for us to realise this. One by one, many players from my generation and the subsequent generation started becoming Grandmasters. This inspired the subsequent generations to believe in their skills. SK:As Ramesh says, it is a process and it takes a lot of time, especially as India does not have a great sporting culture. If sports has become a profession today, this has happened only after 2010. Only after we won international medals did people start to see sport as a profession. Now, we have a sports industry. Prior to that, in my younger days, when I said I play sport, people used to say, but what do you do for a living? What else do you do? We were semi-amateurs back then. I think 2018 was a great year and we are still harping on that. I hope better years are ahead. When I won the Commonwealth Games gold medal in 2006, it was not considered great. If table tennis came to the limelight a little, it was in 2018 when a lot of players did India proud. In the Commonwealth Games, Manika Batra caught the eye and the men’s team did well too. Later that year, we won two medals at the Asian Games. That’s when the sport came into the limelight. Therefore, it’s very, very important that a lot of players do well. We need a lot more improvement in terms of infrastructure and technical know-how. I went to Europe to get better as a youngster and many players continue to follow that, but none of the coaches were able to follow us. That’s the reason the coaches are lagging behind. Unlike cricket, the quality of coaches in chess and table tennis leaves a lot to be desired. After all, the role of coaches cannot be undermined when we speak of building a larger pool of talented players. RBR:In the last decade or so, we have seen many Indian coaches coming up and that has added to the value of the game. It has also accelerated the process of producing champions. As a result, we don’t have to wait for foreign coaches to come and teach us basic things. We have a platform to do it ourselves. I think we have built a good platform and a larger base from where we can produce champions. I think it will still take around five to 10 years for many Indian players to reach the top 20 in the world. SK:We need to create an ecosystem where the coach is able to grow along with the player. An Indian coach will always know more than a foreign coach in terms of the upbringing of players in our society. A foreign coach can always share good technical knowledge, good technical know-how, but I think an Indian coach is the one who can actually get everything together. In terms of infrastructure, we do have a few set-ups that are on an international level, but we need more of those kind of set-ups. If we need to do well as a country, I think we need to have a wider base of players who have access to the top level of sport. That is very, very important. Compared to cricket, do you think the far less media attention that is given to chess and table tennis also reflects on the pace at which these sports are growing? RBR:I don’t think the media has been unfair to other sports or they have been partial to cricket. It might look that way for many, but I would say the media projects what the people want projected. In that sense, it is just doing its job. It is for other sports to grow and get public attention. Obviously, media support is essential and fundamental, but for that, you need activities that can be properly promoted, you need stars who can be projected. Let’s say our players are not doing well. Then there is not much that the media can project. The two have to go hand in hand. The players have to deliver, and the media can then project their achievements to a larger audience. I remember many younger players in the past who were given due attention when they were coming up whenever they achieved some great results. I don’t have any complaints against the media. SK:We’ve got due recognition from the media. On the contrary, I feel we’ve been unfair in not giving the media the kind of regular news that it needs in terms of achievements or scaling new highs. If we are able to perform at regular intervals at the international level, then of course the media has something to write about or project. But if you’re not doing great at the international level, then there is very little that the media can do. Do you think lack of visibility, owing to absence of live coverage of chess and table tennis tournaments, is a factor that affects a sport’s growth? RBR:That was the case probably about 10 years ago. You didn’t have visuals of any of our top performances. These days, almost all the major tournaments are available live on websites. These websites have video cameras covering the players in action in real time besides providing live commentary. SK:I think presentation makes everything look nice. Table tennis is a very intricate sport, involving speed and skill, all in a very small space. In India, we do not have a platform where matches involving Indians are shown. So yes, we suffer from this handicap. This is exactly where cricket remains way ahead of the rest. Matches involving India are telecast and everybody gets to follow them.  We need to create an ecosystem where the coach is able to grow along with the player. An Indian coach will always know more than a foreign coach in terms of the upbringing of players in our society. Sharath Kamal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/why-havent-other-sports-reached-the-heights-of-cricket/article33689319.ece
29 January 2021||January 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Global antitrust and the challenge of Big Tech||There are ongoing investigations worldwide, including in the European Union and the United States, on the abuse of monopolistic power by the Big Tech firms, especially Facebook and Google. Many compare this with the earlier antitrust investigations in the U.S. on the telecom industry and the break-up of the AT&T dictated by the Department of Justice in its Modified Final Judgment in 1982. Key differences now However, there are important differences this time around when compared with the earlier investigations. First, the information good that is being provided by the Internet firms of today, is largely non-rival. The consumption of information by one does not alter the value for the others. However, in telecom, due to limited network capacity, the consumption by one has an effect of decreasing value for the others and, hence, is rival in nature. Second, telecom services are within the jurisdictional boundaries of regulators and, hence, the regulators have the power to lay down rules of the orderly behaviour of the licensed telecom operators. On the other hand, the Internet firms operate globally, thanks to the ubiquitous Internet. Therefore, it is often difficult to lay down international rules of obligation and fulfilment by the different country regulators. Third, while it is debatable whether the goods and services provided by the Internet firms are excludable, telecom is certainly excludable due to the need for consumers to obtain connections from the respective telcos and pay the subscription charges for the same. It is this factor that was leveraged by the Internet firms to provide search, navigation, and social connectivity with no charge to the consumers, and, consequently, making these services non-excludable. In fact, the Internet, started as the Department of Defense project in the U.S., was created to be non-excludable. However, commercialisation of the Internet has created this new avatar of non-excludability that includes subtle trade-offs of personal information for availing services of the Internet firms. Monetisation models It must be pointed out that such non-excludable and non-rival goods, also known as public goods, are provided by governments. On the other hand, in a peculiar way, the information goods as described above are being provided by private firms. This arrangement poses several problems. First, while governments can cover the expense of providing public goods (such as police protection, parks and street lights) through tax-payers’ money, private firms need to have monetisation models to cover the costs of providing their services. Hence, the Internet firms have resorted to personalised advertisements and third-party sharing of the personal information of their users for monetisation purposes. Second, the strong network effects present in these Internet platforms warrant increasing the subscriber base and garnering as much market share as possible. This results in near monopoly of some firms in their defined markets. In order to retain their pole position, these firms may resort to anti-competitive behaviour including acquiring rivals to vertically integrate; erecting entry barriers by refusing to interconnect and inter-operate with competing firms, and leveraging their capital base, thereby engaging in predatory pricing, and driving out competitors. Indispensable applications However, network effects create a huge consumer surplus. Even without our knowledge, these Internet firms have now become an indispensable part of our lives. We cannot do without Google Maps for our day-to-day commute to various destinations; Google Searches are indispensable in our quest for information and news; Google Scholar is a necessary tool for academicians to explore relevant research artefacts. There are positive externalities as well. For example, Google Maps Application Program Interface (APIs) is being used by almost all logistic and transport companies; Facebook APIs are used for advertisement by almost all firms across the industry. Sundar Pichai, the CEO of Google, recently announced that its Search is being expanded to provide accurate and timely information on vaccine distribution to enable quick recovery from the COVID-19 pandemic. Hence, the question before policymakers is how to regulate these Internet firms from abusing their monopoly power while at the same time encouraging the positive externalities and consumer surplus they create. This is a tough nut to crack as it is often very difficult to prove that the firms engage in the abuse of their monopoly power. Due to strong network effects, it is not possible to ban or curtail these services. Even if other options are available (such as Signal and Telegram for messaging), the network effects bind customers to their often used platform (WhatsApp), even if it is not their favourite. Possible solutions A traditional view is to subsidise the good that creates positive externalities. Should the governments provide tax subsidy to these Internet firms in return for their orderly behaviour in the marketplace? Should the governments mandate sharing of Non-Personal Data (NPD) owned by these firms for societal and economic well-being as pointed out in the expert committee on NPD? It is legitimate as pointed out by the Australian government in its media legislation, that Google and Facebook must negotiate a fair payment with news organisations for using their content in Facebook’s newsfeed and Google’s Search. Controlled expansion of products and services without hurting the interests of consumers and smaller competing firms shall be the mantra used by these firms to minimise litigation, lawsuits and, eventually, wastage of tax-payers’ money. The other way to control any abusive behaviour of the Internet firms is to use the power of public voice. The million mails that were sent to the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India in March 2015, effectively put an end to the Free Basics programme of Facebook in India, thereby prohibiting any violation of Net Neutrality principles. Similarly, the huge public outcry and subsequent government actions have delayed the recent changes to privacy policy relating to the sharing of personal information between WhatsApp and its parent firm, Facebook. While governments and regulators deal with these dilemmas, should not the Internet firms adhere to core ethical principles in conducting their businesses? Lessons from the Enron scandal, and collusions between large banks and financial institutions during the 2008 financial crisis, indicate that firms that aim at super monopoly profits and are greedy to become powerhouses of the world, often end up in the ditch.  V. Sridhar is Professor, International Institute of Information Technology Bangalore. With inputs from Kala Seetharam Sridhar, Professor, Institute for Social and Economic Change||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/global-antitrust-and-the-challenge-of-big-tech/article33689307.ece
29 January 2021||January 29 2021 00:00 IST,||A political player who is rising, but is still no Lenin||Russia had its fair share of internal and foreign upheavals in 2020 — the novel coronavirus pandemic, the consequent economic downturn, the controversial arrest of a regional governor, the developments in Belarus, Kyrgyzstan, Moldova and Nagorno-Karabakh. But 2021 brought to focus another troubling event of the previous year: the tribulations of anti-Putin activist Alexei Navalny, which leave many questions unanswered. A saga, European sanctions The saga began on August 20 last year with Mr. Navalny falling ill on a flight to Moscow. His flight made an emergency landing at Omsk where Mr. Navalny was initially hospitalised and treated. He was, at the request of his wife, taken to Germany where he completed his treatment and had a miraculous recovery from what has emerged to be a near lethal poisoning. Meanwhile, the German government felt that it had enough evidence to accuse the Russian security services of poisoning Mr. Navalny. The Germans claim that he was struck with the now infamous Novichok poison, leading to the European Union imposing sanctions on six Russian officials, including the head of the national security outfit, Federal Security Service (FSB) and a chemical research centre. Russia denies the accusations. But the Russian government still has many questions to answer about the poisoning. The latest instalment of this story was Mr. Navalny’s detention on arrival from Berlin (January 17, 2021) and the subsequent country-wide public protests on Saturday (January 23). The charges against Mr. Navalny, include an old case in which he received a suspended sentence and a new case of fraudulent use of public money. Mr. Navalny denies all charges. The protests this time The protests demanding his release, while not the largest seen in Russia, were widespread, occurring in every major city, from the Pacific coast to the Baltic Sea; they resulted in about 3,000 people being detained and released. What does stand out, however, is that people from various strata and age groups joined the mostly peaceful protest actions. Normally, Navalny-related demonstrations attract primarily youth (15-25 years old). That others joined the protest this time is significant. It is probably a reflection of the deep disillusionment with the drop in living standards sparked off by years of Ukraine-related sanctions and lower energy prices, and worsened by the pandemic-driven economic downturn. This should worry the government even if Mr. Navalny himself is not causing them sleepless nights, although his call for ‘smart voting’ in the forthcoming parliamentary elections — all opposition voting for one person against the ruling party candidate — might. Political targets Mr. Navalny till the poisoning was a fringe political actor, mainly active in Moscow. His political career started with the liberal opposition party, Yabloko, in the early 2000s. He subsequently broke away to form his own nationalist group. His anti-corruption campaigns began in the late 2000s when as a shareholder of large companies such as Rosneft, Gazprom, he tried to seek greater transparency about their financial dealings. He followed this up with several exposés of key members of the Russian elite. Prominent among them are government officials (Igor Shuvalov, Alexander Bastrykhin, Viktor Zolotov) and oligarchs (Viktor Vekselberg, Roman Abramovich and Alisher Usmanov). All of them have denied the charges. His subsequent investigations have targeted Dmitry Medvedev, the former President and Prime Minister. The latest, now viral exposure, targets Russian President Vladimir Putin himself, although the charge of him owning a plush palace being built with government money in Southern Russia is not new and has been denied earlier. Earlier, Mr. Navalny’s presence was primarily online, barring sporadic street protests and his campaign for the Mayorship of Moscow. Some analysts have suggested that Mr. Navalny was used as a tool in the internal battles among the elites. This is not difficult to believe because some of the information that Mr. Navalny uses in his anti-corruption campaigns would be difficult, actually impossible, to find in publicly available sources. This kind of knowledge would have to come from someone not just inside, but very high-up in the system. Divided opinion The anti-regime protests expectedly sparked off varying reactions from analysts. Some suggest that these are the beginning of serious moves for regime change, while others call them a storm in a teacup. Surprisingly, the most pro-government TV anchor, Dmitry Kiselyov, chose to compare Mr. Navalny’s return from Germany to a similar journey in 1917 in a sealed train by iconic Bolshevik leader (Vladimir Ilyich Ulyanov) Lenin — the precursor to the October revolution of that year. Whatever Mr. Kiselyov’s reasoning, Mr. Navalny is no Lenin, even if the protests for his release continue. It is clear that now, Mr. Navalny will have a more prominent role in Russian politics and is likely to emerge as the darling of the western media — although, Moscow-based western media correspondents are less ebullient and more cautious in their assessments of Mr. Navalny and his future role.) Churn among the elites Mr. Navalny, notwithstanding the euphoria of the moment, is unlikely to be the catalyst that will lead to “regime change” in Russia. His nationalist platform is not currently capable of appealing to all sections of Russian society or convincing the political opposition to coalesce around it. He is simply not in the same league as Mr. Putin and several other leaders but could, for the time being, serve as the lightning rod for the people to register their disaffection with the regime’s policies. While India may not be waiting with bated breath for “regime change” in Russia, it is important to recognise that the shadow boxing taking place through Mr. Navalny is an indication of serious churn among the Russian elites. In Russia historically, barring once, change usually begins in the upper echelons of power. Nandan Unnikrishnan is Distinguished Fellow, Observer Research Foundation||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-political-player-who-is-rising-but-is-still-no-lenin/article33689310.ece
29 January 2021||January 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Remembering the Holocaust||Every year on January 27, the United Nations honours the victims of the Holocaust by reaffirming its unwavering commitment to counter anti-Semitism, racism, and other forms of intolerance. The date marks the anniversary of the liberation of the Nazi Concentration and Extermination Camp of Auschwitz-Birkenau by Soviet troops in 1945 and calls for a sombre reflection on the real dangers of extreme forms of hatred. “All of us, dying here amidst the icy, arctic indifference of the nations, are forgotten by the world and by life.” This poignant statement by a camp inmate engraved on the walls of Yad Vashem should make us all sit up and take note that this is not just a forgotten sentiment in the pages of history books. This is a palpable feeling even today. Time and again, we have seen how hate speech can prompt ordinary people to feed into prejudices and hostilities. Has the eternal promise to “never forget” already been forgotten? Hate speech has intensified Currently, the anonymity of the Internet and increased screen time during the pandemic have intensified hate speech. Greater exposure to hateful discourses online has allowed anti-Semitism and other variants of racism to fester in our societies. According to researchers at Tel Aviv University, the feelings of uncertainty, alienation and dejection brought on by the COVID-19 pandemic have aggravated anti-Semitism worldwide by attributing blame to the Jewish people and using them as a scapegoat. In this crucial time that requires unity, the proliferation of anti-Semitic sentiments on social media has revived prejudices and stereotypes, further dividing society. For this reason, understanding the significance of the Holocaust carries great importance today. The Holocaust was a watershed moment in history as it illuminates the many manifestations of hate and its impact. Therefore, whilst urging member states to strengthen the resilience of people against hateful ideologies, the UN emphasises the use of education as a potent tool to inculcate a culture of peace. Within the framework of its programmes on the prevention of violent extremism and Global Citizenship Education, UNESCO continually works towards advancing activities to prevent and address tacit and overt forms of anti-Semitism. However, education must not be viewed as a panacea to cure intolerance. Lessons on how racist ideologies and hate speech inform the development of tragedies like the Holocaust must go beyond textbook learning. This is because, often times, we have seen highly educated people perpetuating hatred. Denial and distortion Holocaust denial and distortion is flourishing online. This is defined by the International Holocaust Remembrance Alliance as a virulent expression of contemporary anti-Semitism. According to a previously launched report by the World Jewish Congress, more than 100 posts per day on average denied the Holocaust. This brings to light the increasingly growing dangers of online platforms in distorting reality and stoking hatred. UNESCO’s recently launched campaign called #ProtectTheFacts, developed by the International Holocaust Remembrance Alliance, the UN, and the European Commission, provides a unique opportunity this year to commemorate the victims of the Holocaust by promoting sound policies and practices that raise awareness about Holocaust denial and distortion. In today’s polarised world, empowering people to question and engage in critical reflections about the root causes and repercussions of hate crimes is essential. Individuals always have more power than they realise, for better or for worse.  Consequently, equipping them to make the rational choice of acting as active bystanders rather than perpetrators is the only way to create peaceful and sustainable societies. Ron Malka is Ambassador of Israel to India, Walter J. Lindner is Ambassador of Germany to India and Eric Falt is the Director and Representative of the UNESCO New Delhi cluster office covering Bangladesh, Bhutan, India, the Maldives, Nepal and Sri Lanka||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/remembering-the-holocaust/article33689314.ece
29 January 2021||January 29 2021 00:00 IST,||For one and all||In 2017, China’s President Xi Jinping became the first General Secretary of the Communist Party of China to attend the World Economic Forum at Davos, a gathering synonymous with global capitalism. He delivered a robust defence of globalisation, three days before newly elected U.S. President Donald Trump was set to be sworn in, and six months after the Brexit vote in the U.K. On January 25, Mr. Xi returned to the Davos platform, albeit virtually. His speech carried many of the similar themes from four years ago, calling for global unity, closer coordination on macroeconomic policy, and more equitable growth. It did also carry two messages that appeared to be aimed at Washington, a reflection of four turbulent years of a tariff and technology war between the world’s two biggest economies. “Each country is unique with its own history, culture and social system, and none is superior to the other,” he said. “Difference in itself is no cause for alarm. What does ring the alarm is arrogance, prejudice and hatred; it is the attempt to impose hierarchy on human civilisation or to force one’s own history, culture and social system upon others.” He also hit out at attempts “to build small circles or start a new Cold War, to reject, threaten or intimidate others, to wilfully impose decoupling, supply disruption or sanctions” and said a “misguided approach of antagonism and confrontation, be it in the form of cold war, hot war, trade war or tech war, would eventually hurt all countries’ interests.” If Mr. Xi’s first Davos speech found a broadly receptive audience amid a crisis in capitalism, with the rise of populism in the West creating the space for China to try and fill a void in global economic leadership, China will find a harder sell four years on. His message “to stay committed to international law and international rules instead of seeking one’s own supremacy” and for “the strong [to] not bully the weak” will appear especially jarring to those in China’s neighbourhood. Indeed, only the day before the speech, military commanders from India and China spent over 16 hours in talks, the latest unsuccessful attempt to disengage two forces that have been eyeball-to-eyeball for months, after China’s unprecedented military mobilisation across the LAC starting in May. It is not only India that is dealing with a harder Chinese military posture in the midst of a global pandemic. On January 23, eight bombers and four fighters from China entered Taiwan’s air defence identification zone, the latest warning to Taipei. One cannot find fault with Mr. Xi’s statement that “decisions should not be made by simply showing off strong muscles or waving a big fist”. Indeed, its importance is in its relevance to all the big, militarised powers. And, China is one of them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/for-one-and-all/article33689302.ece
29 January 2021||January 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Tempered optimism||The course of the coronavirus pandemic in the new year presents a picture of contrasts, with some rich countries running out of vaccines, experiencing a tide of new cases and deaths, and poorer countries going without access to vaccination, while India reports a case decline. Vaccine hesitancy may even be wasting precious vials in some States. Amidst suggestions that the worst is over, the Home Ministry has proposed further relaxations in the protocols for public activity from February, including occupancy levels in cinema theatres, holding of exhibitions and access to swimming pools. This will come as a relief to some of the outlying sectors that could not fully unlock so far, although, as the Ministry points out, all other activities have been permitted. The January 27 guidelines for Surveillance, Containment and Caution also create a window for further relaxation of international air travel, but the DGCA has decided to maintain status quo on scheduled flights till February end. Full-fledged inter-city rail services await a decision too. In an economy struggling with a demand contraction for goods and services, a graded opening is the prudent course, with strict enforcement of public health measures. It would be wrong to read the MHA’s unlock advisory, without taking cognisance of the protocols that must continue to be followed: use of face masks, healthy distancing, staggering of working hours, workplace sanitisation and firm action against spitting in public. These legal requirements, however, have been rendered moot in many instances by crowded election campaigns, agitations and gatherings. Many States are not even trying to persuade recalcitrant people in public. India’s declining infections have prompted a further relaxation of activity curbs, but there is no cause to lower the vigil. Genetic mutations of the coronavirus in South Africa, the U.K. and Brazil pose a new worry, with implications for those who have avoided infection so far or have recovered after a difficult battle. Poor communication and lack of transparency on vaccine efficacy data have produced hesitancy, resulting in low uptake in some States. On the other hand, the virus variants have turned the spotlight on second generation vaccines that are expected to protect against them but will take time to arrive. Without ready pharmaceutical remedies, citizens and policymakers have to fall back on the default toolkit of safe behaviour. There will be considerable interest in new measures in Europe, where governments now require use of masks of N95 or FFP2 standards, to offer higher protection in public places and transport; Germany is to give these free to people over 60 and to vulnerable individuals. In India, even with a sizeable population exposed to the virus, as seropositivity surveys show, the spate of infections in Kerala and Maharashtra underscores the value of the precautionary principle on the road to universal vaccination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/tempered-optimism/article33689303.ece
29 January 2021||January 29 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Which media house are you from?’||For a reporter, listening to voices from the ground is the most exciting part of the job. It doesn’t matter what beat you’re assigned, whether politics, environment, crime, or civic issues, or what event you’re asked to cover, whether elections or protests; it’s always the conversations on the ground and the story they help us build that matter. This is what I look forward to while reporting. When I was assigned to cover the farmers’ agitation, which has stretched on for over two months now to become a winter of discontent, I was naturally looking forward to speaking to as many people on the ground as possible and filing reports. Unfortunately, due to recent events and coverage by certain sections of the media, especially biased coverage and even fake news, even starting a conversation with the farmers has become increasingly difficult at the protest sites at the Singhu border and Tikri border in Delhi. Earlier, for all my other stories, I would simply establish contact with the respondent and begin a conversation. But the farmers at the protest sites are wary and distrustful of reporters. In several instances over the past few weeks, I have found myself cornered and questioned. I have been asked to prove that I do not belong to that section of the media which allegedly misrepresents the farmers. Their aversion to some media houses is so-deep rooted that convincing them to speak to me has become one of my biggest challenges on the ground. After all, what is a report without voices? And if I do manage to successfully convince them to speak to me, that’s not the end of the story. I get calls or WhatsApp messages from them the next morning demanding links of the story published — proof that I indeed stuck to my word. Once, at the Tikri border, after an extensive conversation with a group of farmers, I sought permission to photograph them. They agreed, but only on the condition that I would allow them to photograph my press card so that they can be certain that their photos won’t be misused. “ Majboori hain madam (We are helpless, Madam),” they told me. Even at the Singhu border, where posters of certain channels and anchors, all personae non gratae , have been put up, the same challenges stare at us. However, once trust is established, the farmers are friendly and generous. They have offered me fruits, tea, and even langar. It is not just reporters; in some instances, the mere sight of a camera makes the farmers uncomfortable. In some places, the protesters have prevented photojournalists from entering the protest site. The most common complaint from the farmers is that “the media” is not writing or showing their version of the story. Their primary complaint is largely with sections of the television media. But their distrust of the “media” — which is as an all-encompassing entity that includes print, digital and television media; sober and sensational coverage; factual reportage and fake news — in general has become problematic. We live in a polarised world where many inhabit echo chambers. While the farmers’ fears and concerns are understandable given some of the distorted coverage of their protests and the fake news phenomenon, it is also becoming increasingly difficult for us reporters to just do our job.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/which-media-house-are-you-from/article33689313.ece
29 January 2021||January 29 2021 00:00 IST,||The new economic menace to India||In this volume of about 250 pages Mr. B.C. Pal envisages the question of Imperial reconstruction in its bearing on India’s interest. He shows how the policy of the economic exploitation on which Britain holds India tends to widen under the new influences and warns us against the danger that the new Imperialism might mean to India, viz. the domination of the Colonies in addition to that of Britain. The Milnerian distinction between the self-governing Empire and the dependent Empire is exposed in its true colours. Mr. Pal has hard things to say about the hollow cant underlying the talk about Imperial Preference and other nostrums which have regained currency in post war discussions. The remedies that are suggested in the book to overcome this menace of increased exploitation of British capitalists are an alliance with British labour and equalisation of wages and hours of work for labour in India besides a taxation on all excess profits in the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-new-economic-menace-to-india/article33689311.ece
29 January 2021||January 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Churches against apartheid (From an Editorial)||While the British Premier, Mr. Heath, is busy asserting his Government’s right to sell arms to South Africa, Mr. Vorster’s regime is going on with its ruthless implementation of apartheid. It has now attacked important members of both the Anglican and Catholic churches. The Dean of Johannesburg has been imprisoned for his outspoken attacks on racialism and the Government is preparing to expel Father Cosmas Desmond who wrote a book underlining the horrors of resettlement of people according to the colour of their skin. The Father wants to go to London to visit his parents and the Government is not willing to grant him a visa to return. But if he stays on, he may find himself in prison pretty soon under one or the other of South Africa’s apartheid laws. Apart from this, the security police is closely watching all churches where priests with conscience are looking out for opportunities to permit inter-racial worship of God. Africans have been turned away from “whites only” churches, and “coloured” clergymen of the Dutch Reformed Mission have been specially warned not to do any propaganda against segregation. Apart from all this the Government has also moved against some whites in an Orange Free State small town for alleged intimacy with African women.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/churches-against-apartheid-from-an-editorial/article33689312.ece
29 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Economic Survey to be tabled today||Parliament’s Budget session kicks off on Friday, beginning with the tabling of the Economic Survey for this year. The Union Budget, which Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman has said will be ‘one like never before’ in the midst of the COVID-19 pandemic, will be presented on Monday. Rating agencies expect the government to factor in a wider deficit for the coming year in order to give the economy a fiscal stimulus to emerge faster from the pandemic’s effects. A key factor in the fiscal calculations for 2021-22, will also be the government’s stance on the recommendations of the Fifteenth Finance Commission. The Commission’s report on devolution of finances between the Centre and States for the coming five years is expected to be tabled along with the Centre’s Action Taken Report on its recommendations. The Commission, led by N.K. Singh, had submitted its report to the President on November 9. In its interim report for 2020-21 presented last year, the Commission had proposed reducing the share of States in the divisible pool of taxes from 42% to 41%, citing the creation of the union territories of Jammu and Kashmir. Though States have urged the Finance Minister in pre-Budget consultations to enhance transfers to them to help them meet revenue shortfalls, an increase in the transfer share to States is unlikely given the revenue constraints posed by the pandemic. “In the first report for 2020-21, the Commission had stated that it intends to give sectoral and performance-linked grants,” Brickwork Ratings had said in a note on Budget expectations on Tuesday. “It appears that the health sector may get some additional grants. Sectoral and performance-linked grants may not help achieve the intended objectives if the grants are small; if they are substantial, whether the transfer from the Centre will increase or will the same be done by reducing tax devolution remains to be seen,” Most rating agencies expect a significant increase in fiscal support for the economy, to be funded by an aggressive privatisation programme. The Cabinet this week cleared a new public sector enterprises policy that will determine strategic disinvestment plans for the coming year. The policy is expected to be announced in the Budget. “The Budget would be expansionary with the higher-than-trend expenditure allocations for infrastructure and welfare measures,” Care Ratings said in a note. “The theme... necessarily have to be ‘sustainable revival of the economy and employment creation, through targeted tax incentives and higher spending on infrastructure while maintaining an eye on fiscal consolidation’,” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/economic-survey-to-be-tabled-today/article33689284.ece
29 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Plug GST gaps, cut wasteful spending to lift fiscal support’||India should propose a credible privatisation plan for public sector firms, plug gaps in GST collections and cut wasteful expenditure from the Budget in order to contain borrowing costs while enhancing fiscal support for the economy, International Monetary Fund (IMF) chief economist Gita Gopinath said on Thursday.  ‘Expand job guarantees’ Stressing that there is a risk of a sharp rise in inequality, with millions entering extreme poverty, Ms. Gopinath said India must continue to provide support to the weaker sections and increase outlays for the national employment guarantee scheme this year as well. “The policies of in-kind and in-cash support that were deployed in 2020 and expired in 2020, should be deployed again this year. And also, the employment guarantee scheme (MGNREGS) should be expanded again this year like last year, so that you are able to prevent this rise in inequality,” she said, delivering a lecture at the National Council for Applied Economic Research (NCAER). On the IMF’s forecast for India’s economy to grow by 11.5% in 2021-22, Ms. Gopinath said most of the expansion would be ‘mechanical’ as “you are coming off an 8% estimated collapse in the previous year”. “If we do a simple adding up — over two years, we are looking at India being about 2% bigger, where it would have grown 12% normally. We still have a 9% to 10% gap that has to be filled.” Responding to concerns about high government debt, Ms. Gopinath said any tightening of fiscal policies in the middle of the pandemic while people are still being asked to stay home, would be ‘damaging’. “Every time you communicate your fiscal plans from now, you provide confidence that you have a medium-term fiscal framework that will bring the deficit under control once we are out of the pandemic and in a durable growth phase. That can be done by talking about specific plans,” she said. “For instance, In India, more effectiveness in GST collections, there are still gaps there... more credible disinvestment plans, there’s always been the intention but it hasn’t happened as intended. So credibility on all these fronts will give confidence to the markets and keep borrowing costs low during the transition,” Ms. Gopinath observed. “A perennial problem is that there is a lot of wasteful spending that gets done in Budgets, so this is a great time to think of how you can get rid of those,” the IMF chief economist concluded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/plug-gst-gaps-cut-wasteful-spending-to-lift-fiscal-support/article33689286.ece
29 January 2021||COIMBATORE,||Three States to divert more sugar for ethanol||Major sugar-producing States — Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra and Karnataka — are expected to see mills diverting a higher quantity of the commodity for ethanol production this season (October 2020 to September 2021) compared with the previous year. A press release from the Indian Sugar Mills’ Association (ISMA) said that the sugar mills in Uttar Pradesh are estimated to divert 6.74 lakh tonnes of sugar, by way of B heavy molasses and sugarcane juice for ethanol production this season as against 3.70 lakh tonnes in 2019-2020. Mills in Maharashtra are expected to divert about 6.55 lakh tonnes of sugar for ethanol production compared to 1.42 lakh tonnes in 2019-2020. In Karnataka, the mills are expected to divert 5.41 lakh tonnes as against 2.42 lakh tonnes last season.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/three-states-to-divert-more-sugar-for-ethanol/article33689280.ece
29 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Overseas route curbs impairing profitability’||IndiGo owner Interglobe Aviation Ltd. on Thursday said the continued curbs on international operations were hampering the airline’s return to profitability. “The low level of international capacity continues to remain a major concern for us, and continues to hurt our financials,” said CEO Ronojoy Dutta, after the company reported a third-quarter net loss of Rs. 620 crore. “We are anxious to get back in a big way into the international game,” he added. The loss, however, narrowed from the preceding quarter’s Rs. 1,194 crore loss as the government allowed more domestic flight capacity and demand improved, especially in tier-1 and tier-2 cities where it had “surpassed pre-COVID levels”. India has only partially resumed international flights via ‘air bubbles’ with 24 countries. The company said IndiGo was currently operating only 28% of its total international capacity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/overseas-route-curbs-impairing-profitability/article33689282.ece
29 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Maruti Q3 net rises 26%, company flags base effect||India’s largest carmaker Maruti Suzuki India Limited (MSIL) on Thursday posted a 26% increase in consolidated net profit to Rs. 1,996.7 crore for the quarter ended December, mainly on the back of higher sales. However, the company said “these results have to be viewed in the context that in the previous year FY2019-20, sales volume declined by 16% for the company and about 18% for the industry”. Total revenue from operations rose 13% to Rs. 23,471.3 crore in the quarter under review. Maruti sold more than 4.95 lakh vehicles in the quarter, an increase of 13.4%. Mitul Shah, head of Research, Reliance Securities, said Maruti had “reported subdued Q3 performance due to a sharp jump in commodity cost. However, we expect the domestic PV industry to record double-digit volume growth in FY22, which would support MSIL’s business.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/maruti-q3-net-rises-26-company-flags-base-effect/article33689288.ece
29 January 2021||MUMBAI,||India’s gold demand fell to 25-year low in 2020: WGC||Gold demand in India hit a 25-year low at 446.4 tonnes in 2020, compared with 690.4 tonnes in 2019 due to the COVID-19 induced lockdown and on account of record high prices, the India office of the World Gold Council said. Total jewellery demand in India for 2020 was down by 42% at 315.9 tonnes compared with 544.6 tonnes in 2019. The value of jewellery fell 22% to Rs. 1,33,260 crore, from Rs. 1,71,790 crore in 2019. Total investment demand for the calendar year was down by 11% at 130.4 tonnes in comparison with 145.8 tonnes in the previous year. “India’s gold demand dropped by over a third in 2020 settling at 446.4 tonnes, on the back of COVID-induced lockdowns and lifetime high prices,” Somasundaram P.R., managing director, India, World Gold Council, said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/indias-gold-demand-fell-to-25-year-low-in-2020-wgc/article33689278.ece
29 January 2021||HYDERABAD,||Laurus Labs Q3 net profit soars fourfold||Drugmaker Laurus Labs has reported Rs. 272.85 crore consolidated net profit for the quarter ended December, which is almost a fourfold increase from the Rs. 73.47 crore posted in the corresponding period of the previous fiscal. Revenue from operations increased 76% to Rs. 1,288.42 (Rs. 729.59 crore), while total income at Rs. 1,295.35 crore (Rs. 731.51) was 77% higher. CEO Satyanarayana Chava said all the divisions contributed to the growth in revenue. The generic API division recorded a growth of more than 100%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/laurus-labs-q3-net-profit-soars-fourfold/article33689276.ece
29 January 2021||Chennai,||TVS Motor profit doubles to Rs. 266 crore||TVS Motor Co. Ltd.’s standalone net profit for the third quarter ended December 2020 more than doubled to Rs. 266 crore driven by strong growth in two-wheeler sales in the domestic and international markets. Two-wheeler sales in the domestic market rose by 21% and international market by 31%, ahead of the industry’s growth of 13% and 20% respectively. The third quarter of FY20 saw a one-time reversal of an exceptional item of Rs. 76 crore. The board on Thursday declared an interim dividend of Rs. 2.10 per share.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/tvs-motor-profit-doubles-to-rs-266-crore/article33689289.ece
29 January 2021||Chennai,||Sundaram AMC to buy Principal||Sundaram Asset Management Co. Ltd. (SAMC), a 100% subsidiary of Sundaram Finance Ltd., has announced the purchase of the asset management businesses of Principal Asset Management Pvt. Ltd. (Principal). SAMC will acquire the schemes managed by Principal and acquire 100% of the share capital of Principal along with Principal Trustee Co. Pvt. Ltd., and Principal Retirement Advisors Pvt. Ltd. Principal will continue to operate the businesses until the deal is closed, Sundaram Finance said in a regulatory filing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/sundaram-amc-to-buy-principal/article33689291.ece
29 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Prasad bats for Indian 5G core network||Telecom Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad on Thursday said 5G core network should be Indian and the country should move faster on the next-generation technology with indigenously made telecom gear. The Minister said that the test bed was ready for 5G and that the government would soon grant a permit for trials. “We lagged in 2G, 3G and 4G but in 5G India should move at a speed faster than the world with made in India 5G,” Mr. Prasad said at an event of the National Informatics Centre Services Incorporated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/prasad-bats-for-indian-5g-core-network/article33689292.ece
29 January 2021||Hyderabad,||Granules net more than doubles to Rs. 147 cr.||Pharma manufacturing company Granules India has posted a consolidated net profit of Rs. 147 crore for the quarter ended December 31 compared with Rs. 64 crore in the year-earlier period. The firm has declared a third interim dividend of 25 paise per share for 2020-21.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/granules-net-more-than-doubles-to-rs-147-cr/article33689275.ece
29 January 2021||Chennai,||Equitas||Equitas Small Finance Bank Ltd. has reported a 18% increase in standalone net profit for the third quarter ended December to Rs. 111 crore. The lender posted a net interest income of Rs. 484 crore as against Rs. 384 crore, and the net interest margin was 8.47%, according to a regulatory filing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/equitas/article33689290.ece
29 January 2021||Chennai,||Burns: a left-hander with the right attitude||Batting in India for a visiting batsman calls for a certain amount of toughness and resilience. You often have to swim against the flow of the game and still have runs against your name. Rory Burns of Surrey and England is nothing if not a battler. Not the most attractive of openers, the southpaw, nevertheless, collects useful runs off his legs and through covers. Sound defence The 30-year-old Burns has a sound defence and doesn’t play deliveries he does not have to. Making his debut in 2019 at Galle, Burns has 1233 runs in 21 Tests at 32.44, with two hundreds, one in the Ashes Test at Birmingham and the other in Hamilton, New Zealand. Despite just 20 runs in his last four Test innings, against Pakistan, and missing the recent Test series in Sri Lanka owing to a paternity leave, Burns is the first-choice opener for England. In the first Test beginning here on Feb. 5, Burns and Dominic Sibley are likely to be the English opening combination. Burns is aware the present Indian attack is not just about spin. The side can hurt with its pacemen too and none is more lethal than Jasprit Bumrah. He said in a zoom chat here on Thursday, “Bumrah is quite a hard man to prepare for, isn’t he? He is obviously unique in terms of how he comes in and bowls. It would just be about working those angles.” Burns caught some of the gripping action between India and Australia on television back home and said, “India are in a pretty handy form, not necessarily their first playing XI at different points, but still, they managed to get over the line against Australia, it is just going to be a big challenge in their own conditions, looking forward to it.” The opener felt the English spinners would do well not to put pressure on themselves. “Dom Bess and Jack Leach got into their groove bowling in Sri Lanka. I do not think they should be putting any expectations on themselves.” Talking about the pitches, he said, “The pitches might be a little seamer friendly early on, looking at India’s seam attack. Day-night Test is also there, so the pitch might be a little different,” Leader by example Burns had words of praise for skipper Joe Root. “Root obviously leads from the front, you have seen that in the Test series against Sri Lanka, it was incredible to see him go about his business. He is a leader by example, in terms of how he captains the team, he is an easy bloke to follow." And Burns, the left-hander with the right attitude, will have a crucial role at the top of the order.  I do not think the England spinners should be putting any expectations on themselves||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/burns-a-left-hander-with-the-right-attitude/article33689393.ece
29 January 2021||MANCHESTER,||The Blades put United to the sword||Manchester United’s Premier League hopes suffered a huge blow on Wednesday with a 2-1 defeat by bottom side Sheffield United as Chelsea started the Thomas Tuchel era with a goalless draw against Wolves. The result at Old Trafford leaves Pep Guardiola’s Manchester City a point clear at the top of the table with a game in hand and looking increasingly a hot favourite to win a third title in four years. Villa loses to Burnley Elsewhere on a busy night of midweek action, Leicester drew 1-1 with Everton, Burnley beat Aston Villa 3-2 and Brighton drew 0-0 with Fulham. United was sloppy and uninspired from the start and the Blades broke the deadlock midway through the first half when Kean Bryan rose to glance home John Fleck’s corner after David de Gea failed to punch clear. Ole Gunnar Solskjaer’s men were level in the 64th minute when an outswinging corner from Alex Telles was met with a thumping header by Harry Maguire. Sheffield was back in front again in the 74th minute when Manchester United failed to clear and Oliver Burke’s strike took a wicked deflection off Axel Tuanzebe and went in off the underside of the bar. Dominant, but... Earlier, former Paris Saint-Germain boss Tuchel took charge at Stamford Bridge against misfiring Wolves less than 24 hours after replacing the sacked Frank Lampard. The home side dominated territory and possession, but created few clear-cut chances and the visitors had opportunities to leave with all three points. The draw lifted Chelsea to eighth spot, five points behind fourth-placed West Ham.   The results: Brighton 0 drew with Fulham 0; Burnley 3 (Mee 52, McNeil 76, Wood 79) bt Aston Villa 2 (Watkins 14, Grealish 68); Chelsea 0 drew with Wolves 0; Everton 1 (Rodriguez 30) drew with Leicester 1 (Tielemans 67); Manchester United 1 (Maguire 64) lost to Sheffield United 2 (Bryan 23, Burke 74) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/the-blades-put-united-to-the-sword/article33689296.ece
29 January 2021||January 29 2021 00:00 IST,||HFC roars back to hold BFC||A defensive meltdown in the final moments cost Bengaluru FC a precious win as Hyderabad FC snatched a 2-2 draw at the Tilak Maidan stadium in Goa on Thursday. BFC had the match in the bag, leading 2-0 with just five minutes of regulation time left, thanks to goals from Sunil Chhetri and Leon Augustine. A confident Naushad Moosa even replaced Chhetri, only for Hyderabad to hit back through Aridane Santana and Fran Sandaza in the 86th and 90th minutes respectively. Both goals were simple tap-ins off moves originating from the right flank, made possible by some lazy defending. Hyderabad could have won it all, if not for its rank profligacy earlier in the contest. The result, nonetheless, helped Manuel Marquez’s side retain its top-four position (19 points), even as it extended BFC’s winless run to eight matches, a streak that the club last experienced in 2016-17 when it was still part of the I-League. BFC took the lead in the ninth minute through a glancing header by Chhetri off a finely delivered free kick by Cleiton Silva. It came minutes after defensive mainstay Juanan hobbled off with a hamstring strain. Bright moves Hyderabad responded by stringing together a few bright moves but Santana, Joel Chianese, Joao Victor and Halicharan Narzary all failed to capitalise. Santana and Narzary, in particular, would be gutted with their efforts. On 24 minutes, the unmarked Spaniard had just Gurpreet Sandhu to beat but couldn’t curl the ball in. On the stroke of half-time, Narzary missed an open goal from five yards out off Akash Mishra’s fine cross from the left flank. Following the restart, Santana came close again, forcing Sandhu into saving his header. Just after the hour mark, Augustine’s first-ever ISL strike for BFC appeared to have killed the contest. The pacy 22-year-old latched on to a misplaced back pass from Hitesh Sharma and slotted home with the outside of his right boot. It was to Hyderabad’s credit that it did not wilt.  The result: Hyderabad FC 2 (Aridane 86, Sandaza 90) drew with Bengaluru FC 2 (Chhetri 9, Augustine 61).   Friday’s match: FC Goa vs SC East Bengal, 7.30 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/hfc-roars-back-to-hold-bfc/article33689452.ece
29 January 2021||Melbourne,||Tennis set to resume in Melbourne||With a coronavirus-enforced quarantine coming to an end, the world’s elite tennis players will go from two of the quietest weeks of their lives in Australia to three of the busiest. The government-mandated quarantine ahead of the Feb. 8-21 Australian Open had a controversial start. Some players complained bitterly after being forced into hard lockdown because passengers on their charter flights to Melbourne tested positive for COVID-19, and a letter from top-ranked Novak Djokovic to tournament officials offering his suggested rule changes sparked public backlash. The 14-day period of isolation for most players was scheduled to end from late Thursday and early Friday local time. Plaudits And with it came some plaudits from Serena Williams and Rafael Nadal. “It’s super, super strict . . . insane and super intense, but they are doing it right,” Williams said of the quarantine in an interview with The Late Show’s Stephen Colbert. “It’s definitely hard with a three-year old (her daughter Olympia), but it’s worth it because you want everyone to be safe.” Wider perspective The No. 2-ranked Nadal told CNN that international tennis players needed to maintain a “wider perspective on what’s going on in the world,” although he sympathised with the 72 players who were deemed to be close contacts of positive coronavirus cases from three charter flights and who had to stay in their rooms for 24 hours a day and could not practice. “When we came here we knew the measures were going to be strict,” Nadal said. “We knew the country is doing great with the pandemic. “Australia is probably one of the best examples in the world ... how they react through very challenging times.” Indeed, Australia has done well. Due to strict incoming traveler quarantines, limited movement between states and a previous hard lockdown of more than 4 million people in Melbourne when a second wave got out of control in Victoria state, Australia has had only 909 deaths attributed to COVID-19. And 820 of them were in Victoria — most during that second deadly wave when overnight curfews were put in place and use of masks made compulsory outside of home. There was some considerable doubt during that second wave whether the Australian Open would even be remotely possible in Melbourne. This year’s Australian Open was delayed by three weeks to allow arriving players to spend those 14 days in quarantine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tennis-set-to-resume-in-melbourne/article33689596.ece
29 January 2021||CHENNAI,||Mumbai Falcons ready to soar in Asian F3||Mumbai Falcons will begin its maiden campaign in the Formula 3 Asian Championship on Friday, with India’s top racers Jehan Daruvala and Kush Maini behind the wheel. The team unveiled its livery on Thursday, which incorporates the colours of the Indian Tricolour. The first round, which will be held at the Dubai Autodrome, will witness 23 racers from 17 different nationalities competing for honours. The Indian racing fans can watch the races live on the Mumbai Falcons Racing Limited YouTube Channel at 5 p.m. on Friday, and 12 noon and 5 p.m. on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mumbai-falcons-ready-to-soar/article33689586.ece
29 January 2021||KOLKATA,||Rijiju launches anti-doping RM||A reference material (RM), jointly synthesised by the National Dope Testing Laboratory (NDTL) and the National Institute of Pharmaceutical Education and Research (NIPER), Guwahati, for use in the anti-doping field was launched by Union Sports Minister Kiren Rijiju on Thursday. The RM, identified by NDTL as one of the rarely available ones globally, would be used to strengthen anti-doping measures in all World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA) accredited labs, said a statement from the Sports Ministry. During testing of a sample, RMs provide identity confirmation for prohibited substances which do not have threshold limits. NDTL and NIPER-G had signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) in August 2020 to synthesise 20 rare RMs over three years. Special moment “This is a special moment. I congratulate all the scientists in NDTL and NIPER-G for producing one of the 20 RMs,” said Rijiju. It has been decided to distribute 5mg of this indigenously developed RM to all the WADA-accredited dope testing laboratories free of cost. Rijiju said the gesture would generate goodwill.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rijiju-launches-anti-doping-rm/article33689587.ece
29 January 2021||Mumbai,||Is Ranji Trophy back on BCCI’s radar?||The possibility of the Ranji Trophy being staged this season is back on the radar. The BCCI apex council last week was divided on whether to stage the Ranji Trophy or the Vijay Hazare Trophy, the inter-State domestic one-day tournament. But The Hindu understands that word among some of the prominent State associations is that the Ranji Trophy is “more or less finalised” and a truncated edition of India’s premier First Class tournament may be held from the third week of February. Although the BCCI has remained tight-lipped on the subject, it is likely to make a formal announcement on Monday. It is learnt that Bengal and Kerala are set to train with the red ball in their respective preparatory camps, anticipating the announcement of the Ranji Trophy schedule. Another southern giant has planned two three-day practice games. The tournament is likely to be conducted along the lines of the Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy, with each team playing five league games. With the league stage — to be held in six cities — set to conclude around March 25, it is still uncertain whether the knockout stage will clash with the IPL or be scheduled after the T20 league.  (With inputs from Shayan Acharya)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/is-ranji-trophy-back-on-bccis-radar/article33689394.ece
29 January 2021||Chennai,||This Shahrukh too can be a big-budget star||Shahrukh Khan is a dyed-in-the-wool finisher and this breed comes rare in the game. “He is a game-changer and a match-winner,” says this big-built batsman’s Tamil Nadu coach D. Vasu. The other day in Ahmedabad, Shahrukh conjured a blinder, a 19-ball unbeaten 40 in the quarterfinal of the Syed Mushtaq Ali tournament. Tamil Nadu, unbeaten so far in this year’s competition, was on the verge of being knocked out at 66 for five in the 13th over. The in-form openers N. Jagadeesan and Hari Nishaanth were back in the hut quickly. And skipper and batting mainstay Dinesh Karthik contributed just 2. Himachal Pradesh’s 135 seemed miles away. The compact B. Aparajith was battling away at one end. He desperately needed a partner. The situation did not bother the 25-year-old Shahrukh. “I practise for moments like this. The position that I come in [No. 6 or 7] I am not going to get too many deliveries to face.” And tear into the Himachal bowling he did, with blows over mid-wicket, the straight hits. All of a sudden we were watching a different game. “When Shahrukh hits the ball, it stays hit. He picks the length and line quickly and there are no half measures. And he is such a powerful hitter. I am surprised he was not picked by an IPL team last season,” said Vasu. The IPL snub disappointed Shahrukh too. “Being overlooked for IPL did leave me dejected for a while but soon I was out sweating it out.” An injury meant he had to be operated on his little finger. “It was a tough phase but I came through it.” Returning to the Tamil Nadu-Himachal game, Tamil Nadu was home by five wickets, thanks to Aparajith and Shahrukh. This Shahrukh has it in him to be a big-budget star.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/this-shahrukh-too-can-be-a-big-budget-star/article33689398.ece
29 January 2021||January 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Well-oiled TN the favourite against Rajasthan||A confident and well-oiled Tamil Nadu takes on Rajasthan in a rematch of last season’s semifinal in the Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy at the Motera stadium in Ahmedabad on Friday. Ahead of its quarterfinal clash against Himachal Pradesh, an area of concern for TN was that its middle-order was untested. Stepping up to the plate However, in that game, the middle-order had to step up, with the side being reduced to 66 for five, pursuing 136. B. Aparajith and M. Shahrukh Khan rose to the occasion to help TN chase down the total with relative ease in the end. Earlier, seamer Sonu Yadav (three for 14 in four overs with 16 dot balls) had been the pick of the TN bowlers. In Rajasthan, TN faces an opponent with a strong bowling unit but one without enough batting firepower. Rajasthan’s batting depends heavily on three key players in Mahipal Lomror, Ankit Lamba and skipper Ashok Menaria — its only batsmen to have scored half-centuries so far in the tournament.  Rajasthan also doesn’t have the services of the Chahar cousins — Rahul is with the Indian camp in Chennai while Deepak is at the NCA in Bengaluru with a niggle. While it managed well in the quarterfinals without the duo, Rajasthan was up against a relatively weak side in Bihar that came through from the Plate Group. Its bowling unit of Aniket Choudhary, Khaleel Ahmed and Ravi Bishnoi will need to perform at its best to keep TN honest. TN coach D. Vasu said, “Yes, they have a strong bowling attack, so we should be watchful. At the same time, we have done our homework and are confident of doing well.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/well-oiled-tn-the-favourite-against-rajasthan/article33689400.ece
29 January 2021||Pune:,||Kildare well prepped for a hat-trick||Trainer S.K. Sunderji’s ward Kildare who has won well in his last two starts, and is in great heart, may score a hat-trick in the Republic Cup, the feature event of Friday’s (Jan. 29) Mumbai races to be held at Pune. Rails will be announced one hour before the first race.  RADICAL FORCE PLATE (Div. II) (1,600m), Cl. IV, rated 20 to 46, 1.00 p.m.: 1. Live By Night (10) Trevor 59, 2. White River (3) Neeraj 56.5, 3. Allied Attack (5) Dashrath 54.5, 4. Dalasan (4) Ayyar 54.5, 5. Rising Sun (6) Parmar 54.5, 6. Accenture (2) Sandesh 53.5, 7. Evangeline (9) K. Kadam 53.5, 8. Caesar (11) Nazil 52, 9. Hioctane (8) Chouhan 52, 10. Rospomare (1) Merchant 51.5 and 11. Adonijah (7) Raghuveer 51.  1. LIVE BY NIGHT, 2. RISING SUN, 3. HIOCTANE   ADOLFITO PLATE (Div. I) (1,200m), Cl. IV, 5-y-o & over, rated 20 to 46, 1.30: 1. Belenus (6) P. Vinod 60, 2. Goshawk (2) T.S. Jodha 60, 3. Dumas (9) Zervan 59.5, 4. Fine Tune (7) S.J. Sunil 59, 5. Jetfire (5) Parmar 58.5, 6. Collegium (13) Gagandeep 58, 7. Dancing Lances (14) Aniket 58, 8. Rising Brave (11) A. Prakash 58, 9. Alpine Express (12) V. Jodha 57, 10. Pulverize (8) Bhawani 57, 11. Northern Singer (4) Kaviraj 56.5, 12. Cellini (1) Trevor 56, 13. Twinspire (3) Peter 55 and 14. Officer In Command (10) M. S. Deora 52.5.  1. CELLINI, 2. JETFIRE, 3. DUMAS   SHANTIDAS ASKURAN TROPHY (1,200m), Cl. II, rated 60 to 86, 2.00: 1. Juno’s Guest (1) Aniket 61, 2. Excellent Gold (2) Dashrath 57, 3. Golden Guest (8) Akshay Kumar 56.5, 4. Hidden Gold (4) Trevor 55, 5. Headway (5) Zervan 54.5, 6. Revelator (7) Sandesh 54, 7. Majestic Warrior (6) Kaviraj 53 and 8. Sharareh (3) Parmar 50.  1. GOLDEN GUEST, 2. SHARAREH, 3. HEADWAY   CABRIOLET PLATE (1,000m), (Terms) Maiden, 3-y-o only, 2.30: 1. Alexander (1) T.S. Jodha 56, 2. Multiencrypted (3) Parmar 56, 3. Red Merlot (5) Dashrath 56, 4. Ginsburg (4) Neeraj 54.5, 5. Hilma Klint (6) J. Chinoy 54.5, 6. Princess Shania (2) Zervan 54.5 and 7. Thundering Spirit (7) Sandesh 54.5.  1. MULTIENCRYPTED, 2. PRINCESS SHANIA, 3. ALEXANDER   ICEBREAKER PLATE (1,400m), Cl. III, rated 40 to 66, 3.00: 1. Questionable (1) Gagandeep 60, 2. Sunrise Ruby (7) Nazil 57, 3. Princess Annabel (3) Bhawani 54, 4. Sandalphon (6) Trevor 51.5, 5. Benghazi (4) Neeraj 50, 6. Dreams (2) T.S. Jodha 49 and 7. Guarnerius (5) Parmar 49.  1. DREAMS, 2. SUNRISE RUBY, 3. PRINCESS ANNABEL   RADICAL FORCE PLATE (Div. I) (1,600m), Cl. IV, rated 20 to 46, 3.30: 1. Fanfare (4) Ajinkya 62, 2. Monarchos (9) Trevor 60, 3. Lion King (2) Zeeshan 58, 4. Properly Posh (6) Neeraj 57.5, 5. Justified (3) Sandesh 57, 6. Rubik Star (10) Bhawani 57, 7. Tasman (8) Nazil 56.5, 8. Black Cherry (7) J. Chinoy 56, 9. Fencing (1) Shailesh Shinde 55, 10. Arcadia (5) Mosin 54.5 and 11. North Star (11) Chouhan 54.5.  1. NORTH STAR, 2. JUSTIFIED, 3. BLACK CHERRY   REPUBLIC CUP (1,400m), (Terms) 4-y-o & over, 4.00: 1. Iron Age (2) Srinath 59, 2. Augustus Caesar (4) Neeraj 57.5, 3. Flying Visit (3) Trevor 55.5, 4. Kildare (1) Sandesh 54 and 5. St. Andrews (5) T.S. Jodha 54.  1. KILDARE, 2. IRON AGE   VICTORY MARCH PLATE (1,000m), Cl. V, rated 4 to 30, 4.30: 1. Arabian Perfection (7) M.S. Deora 59, 2. Head Honcho (8) Ayyar 59, 3. Ame (9) Parmar 58, 4. Princess Snow (13) Dashrath 57.5, 5. Trident (2) Shailesh 57.5, 6. Twinkling Star (3) Kaviraj 57.5, 7. Fendi (10) Merchant 57, 8. Treason (5) Zeeshan 56.5, 9. Brave (6) Aniket 56, 10. Stars For You (1) Bhawani 56, 11. About The Cloud (12) Nirmal 55.5, 12. Colosseum (11) Trevor 53.5, 13. Powerful Star (14) S. Kamble 53.5 and 14. Nusrat (4) Peter 51.5.  1. COLOSSEUM, 2. AME, 3. BRAVE   ADOLFITO PLATE (Div. II) (1,200m), Cl. IV, 5-y-o & over, rated 20 to 46, 5.00: 1. Timeless Deeds (9) Kaviraj 59, 2. Shae (12) Nazil 58, 3. Thunderclap (5) Chouhan 58, 4. Pleiades (8) T.S. Jodha 57.5, 5. Alauddin Khilji (14) Bhawani 56.5, 6. Monk (10) M.S. Deora 56, 7. Beemer (2) Akshay Kumar 55.5, 8. Between Friends (1) Ayyar 54.5, 9. Dilbar (7) S. Amit 54.5, 10. Pride’s Angel (11) Neeraj 54.5, 11. Tanhaiyaan (13) Trevor 54, 12. Flying Yoda (4) Aniket 53.5, 13. Titanium (6) S.J. Sunil 51.5 and 14. Sir Ramon (3) Zeeshan 49.  1. TANHAIYAAN, 2. MONK, 3. THUNDERCLAP  Day’s Best: CELLINI  Double: GOLDEN GUEST — DREAMS  Jackpot: (i) 2, 3, 4, 5 & 6. (ii) 5, 6, 7, 8 & 9. Treble: (i) 3, 4 & 5. (ii) 6, 7 & 8. (iii) 7, 8 & 9. Tanala: All races. Super jackpot: 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 & 9.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kildare-well-prepped-for-a-hat-trick/article33689919.ece
29 January 2021||January 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Dominant Punjab vs gutsy Baroda||Two unbeaten teams, Punjab and Baroda, go to battle in the Syed Mushtaq Ali T20 Trophy semifinal at Ahmedabad on Friday. Punjab and Baroda aced the group stages, with five wins in as many games, before recording contrasting victories in the quarterfinals. While Punjab cruised past Karnataka by nine wickets, Baroda edged out Haryana in a thriller. Baroda owes this semifinal spot to Vishnu Solanki, who sealed the tense chase against Haryana with a last-ball helicopter shot which went for six. Solanki and skipper Kedar Devdhar — the team’s highest run-scorer in the tournament — have emerged as Baroda’s batting mainstays.  Baroda will be severely tested by Punjab, which boasts of one of the best bowling attacks in the competition. Pacers Siddarth Kaul (13 wickets) and Arshdeep Singh (10 wickets) have done big damage at the start of the innings and have received fine support from Sandeep Sharma, Ramandeep Singh, Mayank Markande and Harpreet Brar. Every bowler possesses an economy rate of less than 7 — an indication of their disciplined approach. On the batting front, Punjab has been well served by opener Prabhsimran Singh, the highest run-scorer of the tournament (326 runs). Prabhsimran has scores of 43, 89 n.o., 63, 73 n.o. and 49 n.o., to more than compensate for one failure (9 vs. Tripura). Fellow opener Abhishek Sharma has also come good, holding a creditable tournament average of 40.2. Captain Mandeep Singh is a dependable presence in the middle-order, coming off crucial knocks (35 n.o. and 99 n.o.) in the previous two matches.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/dominant-punjab-vs-heroic-baroda/article33689397.ece
29 January 2021||Los Angeles,||Lakers suffer season’s first road defeat||Tobias Harris drove in the final dagger as Philadelphia 76ers thwarted a late Los Angeles Lakers rally to hand the reigning NBA champion a first road defeat of the season — 107-106. In a bruising heavyweight clash, the Eastern Conference-leading Sixers made a statement against the league-leading Lakers. Triple-double Joel Embiid scored 28 points, Ben Simmons notched up a triple-double of 17 points, 11 rebounds and 10 assists and Harris, fed by Seth Curry, sealed the victory with a pull-up jump shot with three seconds remaining. The Lakers, who had won a franchise-best 10 road games to start the season, nearly kept the streak alive despite trailing by 14 points in the fourth quarter. The Lakers, down by 12 with 3:07 remaining, produced a 13-0 scoring run launched by Alex Caruso's finger-roll lay-up. After three-pointers from Caruso, Dennis Schroder and Kentavious Caldwell-Pope, Anthony Davis gave the Lakers a 106-105 lead on a lay-up set up by LeBron James. After a time-out, Sixers inbounded the ball with 11.2 seconds remaining. They got the ball to Harris, who drove left and fired. Davis' desperate heave from half-court as time expired was never close. James, coming off a 46-point performance at Cleveland on Monday, led the Lakers with 34 points, Davis added 23 and Schroder had 16. Meanwhile, Brooklyn Nets, with a big night from its big three, escaped with a 132-128 overtime victory over the Hawks in Atlanta. Kevin Durant scored 32 points, James Harden added a double-double of 31 points and 15 assists with eight rebounds and Kyrie Irving added 26 points for the Nets, who won their third straight. Sabonis shines Indiana forward Damontas Sabonis delivered a triple-double of 22 points, 11 rebounds and 10 assists as the Pacers beat the Hornets in Charlotte 116-106. Sabonis was doubtful to start the game with a bruised left knee, but he showed no sign of trouble as he connected on nine of 10 shots from the floor, including two of three from three-point range. Elsewhere, Brandon Ingram and Zion Williamson scored 32 points each as New Orleans Pelicans overcame a 47-point performance by Bradley Beal to defeat Washington Wizards 124-106.  The results: New Orleans Pelicans 124 bt Washington Wizards 106; San Antonio Spurs 110 bt Boston Celtics 106; Atlanta Hawks 128 lost to Brooklyn Nets 132 (OT); Miami Heat 82 lost to Denver Nuggets 109; Philadelphia 76ers 107 bt LA Lakers 106; Toronto Raptors 108 lost to Milwaukee Bucks 115; Golden State Warriors 123 bt Minnesota Timberwolves 111; Phoenix Suns 97 lost to Oklahoma City Thunder 102; Utah Jazz 116 bt Dallas Mavericks 104; Charlotte Hornets 106 lost to Indiana Pacers 116; Cleveland Cavaliers 122 bt Detroit Pistons 107; Orlando Magic 107 lost to Sacramento Kings 121.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/la-lakers-suffers-seasons-first-road-defeat/article33689453.ece
29 January 2021||GURUGRAM,||Manas makes semifinals||Manas Dhamne beat third-seeded Nikhil Niranjan 6-4, 6-4 in the quarterfinals of the ITF grade-4 junior tournament at Tennis Project, Baliawas, on Thursday. The 13-year-old Manas, who came through the qualifying event, will challenge top seed Nishant Dabas in the semifinals. Champion of the last event, Chirag Duhan got past Ajay Malik in straight sets to set up a semifinal against fourth seed Aman Dahiya. In the girls’ section, Anjali Rathi battled past Lakshmi Prabha in three sets to set up a semifinal against top seed Sanjana Sirimalla. The girls’ champion last week, Shruti Ahlawat sailed past eighth-seeded Bhakti Shah for the other semifinal against second seed Reshma Maruri.  The results: Boys (quarterfinals): Nishant Dabas bt Krishan Hooda 6-3, 6-3; Manas Dhamne bt Nikhil Niranjan (US) 6-4, 6-4; Aman Dahiya bt Dhruv Tangri 6-2, 7-5; Chirag Duhan bt Ajay Malik 6-4, 6-3.   Doubles (semifinals): Nishant Dabas & Aman Dahiya bt Arunava Majumder & Wyatt Obrien 6-3, 6-2; Chirag Duhan & Anargha Ganguly bt Kartik Parhar & Dhanush Patel 6-4, 6-7(7), [10-7].   Girls (quarterfinals): Sanjana Sirimalla bt Suhitha Maruri 6-1, 6-3; Anjali Rathi bt Lakshmi Prabha 6-1, 4-6, 6-4; Shruti Ahlawat bt Bhakti Shah 6-2, 6-1; Reshma Maruri bt Sudipta Kumar 6-0, 6-1. Doubles (semifinals): Reshma Maruri & Suhitha Maruri bt Vidhi Jani & Sudipta Kumar 6-4, 6-4; Bhakti Shah & Riya Uboveja bt Hetevee Chaudhari & Veda Raju Prapurna 7-6(4), 6-3.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/manas-makes-semifinals/article33689594.ece
29 January 2021||Dubai,||Umpire Oxenford quits international scene||Australian umpire Bruce Oxenford on Thursday announced his retirement from international cricket after officiating in all three formats of the game for over 15 years. A regular member of the ICC Elite Panel of Umpires since 2012, Oxenford officiated in 62 Tests, the last of which was the final game of the Australia-India series in Brisbane. "I look back with pride at my international career as an umpire. It is still hard to believe that I officiated in close to 200 international matches. Such a long career was not really something that I had hoped for before commencing on this journey,” said Oxenford.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/umpire-oxenford-quits-international-scene/article33689297.ece
29 January 2021||COLOMBO,||SL chief selector quits||Sri Lanka’s Selection Committee chairman Ashantha de Mel has resigned from his post after the national team’s defeat against England in the recent home Test series. Sri Lanka Cricket (SLC) said in a statement that Ashantha has resigned from the post with immediate effect, citing personal reasons. The 61-year-old former pacer had also stepped down as team manager — a post he had simultaneously held — several days prior. He had held both roles since November 2018.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sl-chief-selector-quits/article33689298.ece
29 January 2021||Manchester,||Manchester United condemns ‘mindless idiots’ for racial abuse||Manchester United says it is disgusted by the online racial abuse targeted at players Axel Tuanzebe and Anthony Martial following its 2-1 home loss to last-placed Sheffield United. The perpetrators were “anonymous mindless idiots,” Man United said on Thursday in a statement. Sheffield United's winning goal on Wednesday at Old Trafford in the English Premier League struck Tuanzebe's outstretched leg and went in off the underside of the crossbar. Abuse targeting the players, who are both Black, included racist terms and emojis on their most recent Instagram posts. “Everyone at Manchester United is disgusted by the racial abuse received by players via social media after last night's game,” the team said without identifying the players. We utterly condemn it and it is encouraging to see other fans condemn this on social media also.” The club said it has “zero tolerance” of any form of racism or discrimination. United next plays at Arsenal on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/manchester-united-condemns-mindless-idiots-for-racial-abuse/article33689918.ece
29 January 2021||New Delhi,||Women’s Asian Cup in India next year||The 2022 Women’s Asian Cup, to be hosted by India, will be held from January 20 to February 6, the Asian Football Confederation announced on Thursday. The tournament will feature 12 teams, expanded from eight in the previous edition, comprising three groups of four with a minimum of 25 matches being played over 18 days. Eight teams will qualify for the newly-introduced quarterfinals. The event will also serve as a qualification tournament for the 2023 FIFA Women’s World Cup, which will see a record five Asian teams seal their spots to join co-host Australia for the newly-expanded 32-team global showpiece. Centralised venue The Qualifiers for the 2022 AFC Women’s Asian Cup is set to take place from Sept. 13 to 25 in a centralised venue as the continent’s hopefuls compete for the final eight spots to join the three highest-ranked sides from the last edition — Japan, Australia and China, who alongside host India receive automatic qualification. AFC General Secretary Dato Windsor John said: “India has seen incredible growth in recent years, and we are confident that the AFC Women’s Asian Cup India will present another historic step in the incredible journey of Indian football — one that will strengthen the passion for the game and leave a lasting impact for future generations of women footballers.” The tournament is one of the two marquee events being held in the country next year as the hosting rights of the 2022 FIFA U-17 Women's World Cup was also handed to India after the 2020 event was cancelled due to the COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/womens-asian-cup-in-india-next-year/article33689629.ece
29 January 2021||CHENNAI:,||Secretive Force wins feature event||Ms. Ameeta Mehra, Mr. Rienzie M.K. Edwards & Mrs. P.P.M. Edwards’ Secretive Force (Suraj Narredu up) won the South India Stayers Trial Stakes, the chief event of the races held here on Thursday (Jan. 28). Darius trains the winner. In the Multitude Plate (Div. II), Star Waves won in 58.03s to better the record of 58.40s set by Egyptiana in 2017.  1. GAME OF THRONES PLATE (1,800m), rated 00 to 25: PERFECT SUPPORT (A. Ayaz khan) 1, Catalyst (Umesh) 2, Gardiner (Zervan) 3 and Betty Boop (Azfar Syeed) 4. 7-3/4, nk and 1/2. 1m, 55.21s. Owners: Mr. Shariq Joshy & Mr. G.S. Sarath Varun. Trainer: G.S. Parmar.  2. SANTA ANITA PLATE (1,200m), 4-y-o only, rated 20 to 45: RIPPLING WATERS (Nakhat Singh) 1, Katahdin (Zervan) 2, Farewell (Azfar Syeed) 3 and Romantic Bay (Manikandan) 4. 5, 4-1/2 and 3/4. 1m, 11.67s. Owner: M.A.M. Ramaswamy Chettiar of Chettinad Charitable Trust. Trainer: R. Foley.  3. MULTITUDE PLATE (Div. II) , (1,000m), rated 40 to 65: STAR WAVES (Azfar Syeed) 1, Glorious Land (A.M. Alam) 2, Wakeful (Zervan) 3 and Kings Show (H. Rahul) 4. 4-1/2, 1-1/2 and 1. 58.03s (record time). Owner: M.A.M. Ramaswamy Chettiar of Chettinad Charitable Trust. Trainer: B. Suresh.  4. MULTITUDE PLATE (Div. I) , (1,000m), rated 40 to 65: PRETTY GAL (P. Sai Kumar) 1, Royal Prestige (A.M. Alam) 2, Lord Ascot (Nakhat Singh) 3 and Henrietta (B. Nikhil) 4. 2-1/2, shd and 1. 59.05s. Owner: Mr. M.A.M.R. Muthiah. Trainer: R. Karthik.  5. DHARMASENAN EBENEZER MEMORIAL CUP (1,000m), maiden 3-y-o only (Terms): BOLIVIA (Akshay Kumar) 1, Amore (Brisson) 2, Beauteous Maximus (Nakhat Singh) 3 and Dun It Again (P.K. Gaddam) 4. Lnk, 4-1/2 and 1. 59.92s. Owner: Mr. S. Pathy. Trainer: B. Suresh.  6. S. RANGARAJAN MEMORIAL TROPHY (1,800m), rated 60 to 85: RENO STAR (Akshay Kumar) 1, Royal Currency (Brisson) 2, Durango (Zervan) 3 and Royal Chieftain (P. Trevor) 4. 1-3/4, 1-3/4 and 6-1/4. 1m, 51.01s. Owner: Mr. H. Thambuswamy. Trainer: R.H. Sequeira.  7. SOUTH INDIA STAYERS TRIAL STAKES (2,400m), 4-y-o & over (Terms): SECRETIVE FORCE (Suraj Narredu) 1, My Opinion (Akshay Kumar) 2, Point To Prove (Neeraj) 3 and Caprisca (P. Trevor) 4. 1-3/4, 1/2 and 5. 2m, 33.18s. Owners: Ms. Ameeta Mehra, Mr. Rienzie M.K. Edwards & Mrs. P.P.M. Edwards. Trainer: Diarus.  8. COCCINELLA PLATE (1,400m), rated 20 to 45: GRAND ROYAL (Zervan) 1, Radical Review (Suraj Narredu) 2, Magical Wish (H. Rahul) 3 and Big Treasure (P. Sai Kumar) 4. 1-1/2, 4-1/2 and shd. 1m, 26.07s. Owners: M/s. Hyperion Blood Stock rep by Mr. & Mrs. Farouq Rattonsey, Mr. M. Sameer Rattonsey & Mr. Zaheer F. Rattonsey. Trainer: R. Foley.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/secretive-force-wins-feature-event/article33689506.ece
29 January 2021||January 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Bhakti explained||What is bhakti? How can it be defined? Sankara Bhagavadpada gives an example to explain bhakti. Suppose there is a newly wed couple. When the husband is away at work, the young wife waits eagerly for his return. Such is the attachment of a true bhakta towards the Lord. Ramanujacharya too gives an example to help us understand bhakti. Suppose there is a pot with a hole in it. Pour oil into this pot, and it flows out evenly through the hole. Likewise, the true bhakta’s thoughts about the Lord flow evenly and constantly. He is steadfast in his faith in the Lord. However, such bhakti does not come easily, said V.S. Karunakarachariar in a discourse. Before we can develop bhakti, we must first understand ourselves. We must do our duties without expecting anything in return. When one does bhakti yoga, one experiences indescribable joy. Vedanta Desika says that this joy far surpasses the joy one experiences in Sri Vaikuntha. The significance of bhakti yoga is explained by Krishna to Arjuna in the Bhagavad Gita. Arjuna is a confused man at the beginning of the battle. He is unwilling to kill those who oppose him on the battlefield because they are his relatives, his gurus. On the other side there are people who showered their affection on him. How can he attack them, he asks. Krishna tells him the importance of doing one’s karma, the difference between the atma and the body, how to do jnana yoga, how jnana leads to bhakti, how to do upasana, the different stages in bhakti yoga, the three gunas. He shows His Cosmic form to Arjuna, by giving him the required divine eyesight. He finally says that the best way to attain liberation is saranagati — total and unquestioning surrender to Him. It is only after this, that Arjuna picks up his weapon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bhakti-explained/article33689388.ece
29 January 2021||KOZHIKODE,||Expo 2020 Dubai to host World chess||Expo 2020 Dubai will host this year’s World chess championship from November 24 to December 16. The €2 million championship will see reigning champion Magnus Carlsen of Norway taking on the winner of the Candidates tournament, which had to be stopped midway last year because of the coronavirus outbreak. The Candidates tournament is slated to resume at Ekaterinburg, Russia, in April. Maxime Vachier-Lagrave of France and Ian Nepominachtchi of Russia were in the lead with 4.5 points each from seven rounds when the tournament was stopped last March. ‘Outstanding event’ “The World Championship match is an outstanding event, and we are proud to team up with Expo to create a breath-taking experience not only for the hardcore chess fans, but also for the wider audience,” said FIDE president Arkady Dvorkovich.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/expo-2020-dubai-to-host-world-chess-championship/article33689583.ece
29 January 2021||Kolkata,||Ganguly stable after second angioplasty||The Board of Control of Cricket in India (BCCI) president Sourav Ganguly underwent an angioplasty at a city hospital on Thursday after a similar procedure on January 2. “The procedure was uneventful. Mr. Ganguly is stable an under close observation,” a statement issued by Apollo Gleneagles Hospitals said. Renowned cardiac surgeon Devi Shetty and other senior doctors were present during the procedure. Ganguly had got himself admitted to the hospital on Wednesday after feeling pain and uneasiness in his chest . Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, who visited Ganguly, thanked the doctors for “successfully” completing the procedure.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ganguly-stable-after-second-angioplasty/article33689391.ece
29 January 2021||CHENNAI,||Indian players clear first COVID test||The Indian players cleared their first round of RT-PCR tests on Thursday and will have two more rounds before starting training from February 2 for the upcoming Test series against England starting here on February 5. The entire Indian contingent has already arrived in the city and both teams are staying at the Leela Palace hotel. Families allowed In another development, the BCCI has allowed the players to be accompanied by their families as it “could be extremely lonely” during quarantine. Vice-captain Ajinkya Rahane, senior opener Rohit Sharma, wicketkeeper Wriddhiman Saha and all-rounder Hardik Pandya have all been joined by their families.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/indian-players-clear-first-covid-test/article33689416.ece
29 January 2021||Bangkok,||Sindhu and Srikanth lose again||P.V. Sindhu and K. Srikanth are virtually out of contention for the knockout stage after losing their second-round matches in the BWF World Tour Finals on Thursday. A week ago Sindhu had suffered a demoralising defeat to Ratchanok Intanon and there was no change of luck this time too as she lost 21-18, 21-13 to the third-seeded Thai. “It wasn't my day. Losing the first game made the difference. My timing was a bit off,” Sindhu said. Srikanth enjoyed a 3-0 head-to-head against Wang Tzu Wei ahead of the match but it mattered little as the Taiwanese World No. 12 rallied to a 19-21, 21-9, 21-19 win.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sindhu-and-srikanth-lose-again/article33689293.ece
29 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Harikrishna holds Tari||P. Harikrishna once again displayed his defensive skills to hold Aryan Tari in the 10th round of the Tata Steel Masters chess tournament at Wijk aan Zee, in the Netherlands, on Wednesday. Playing white, Harikrishna (5 points) faltered in the middle-game before putting up a strong resistance and drawing in 52 moves. Anish Giri (7) became the sole leader after beating Radoslaw Wojtaszek.  The results (10th round): P. Harikrishna (5) drew with Aryan Tari (Nor, 4); Anish Giri (Ned, 7) bt Radoslaw Wojtaszek (Pol, 3.5); Andrey Esipenko (Rus, 6.5) bt David Anton Guijar (Esp, 3.5); Fabiano Caruana (USA, 6.5) drew with Magnus Carlsen (Nor, 5.5); Nils Grandelius (Swe, 5) drew with Alireza Firouzja (FIDE, 6.5) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/harikrishna-holds-tari/article33689294.ece
29 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||SAI’s NCOE project approved||The Sports Authority of India (SAI) has got Rs. 100 crore approved for the development of National Centres of Excellence (NCOE) across the country, during its governing body meeting held here on Wednesday. The project includes construction of hostels in Bengaluru and at the Indira Gandhi Stadium in Delhi, apart from creation and upgradation of various facilities. The SAI would also be outsourcing the management of hostels, mess and kitchen to expert agencies at various SAI centres to improve the overall standard. The start would be made with the newly built hostel at the Dr. Karni Singh Shooting Range and the one at the Nehru Stadium. International medal winners and Dronacharya award winners would be appointed as coaches on contract or deputation. “Our sports persons are our national pride,” said the Union Sports Minister, Kiren Rijiju, about hiring top athletes and expert coaches for the National Centres of Excellence. Quite significantly, the SAI would also attempt to have top-class educational facilities at its centres, on a public/private partnership.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sais-ncoe-project-approved/article33689588.ece
29 January 2021||GENEVA,||Speculation is hurting the athletes: Bach||IOC president Thomas Bach hit back at continuing speculation about if the Tokyo Olympics may be cancelled or postponed again, saying on Wednesday that such talk is damaging for the thousands of athletes preparing to take part this year. The International Olympic Committee and organisers in Japan have repeatedly insisted there is no Plan B for the Tokyo Games, which has been already postponed by one year because of the pandemic. Last week, Japan’s government quickly and firmly dismissed a report that it had concluded the games would have be cancelled. However, talk about whether the games can go ahead refuses to go away. “All these speculations are hurting the athletes in their preparations,” Bach said after a monthly meeting of the IOC executive board. The Games are scheduled to open on July 23, with 11,000 athletes competing in 33 sports. A total of 61% of entry places — more than 6,700 — have been earned and confirmed, the IOC said. No distractions needed Bach noted that athletes don’t need more distractions as they already have “to overcome the challenges in their daily training and competitions with all the restrictions they are facing.” “We want not to destroy any Olympic dream of any athlete,” the IOC leader said, noting that not even scientists can know the global health situation in six months’ time. “For all these reasons we are not losing our time and energy on speculations.” However, Bach stopped short of assuring the games will open on time. Similar pledges were made at IOC news conferences last March and three weeks later the games were postponed. No jumping queue Asked about vaccination programmes, Bach repeated that athletes and workers at the Olympics are advised to be inoculated but it would not be mandatory to enter Japan. “We are not in favour of athletes jumping the queue,” he said. The 206 national Olympic bodies have been urged by the IOC to liaise with their governments about the place of sports in vaccination programs. The COVID-19 pandemic has also affected the other major gathering of Olympic officials this year. The IOC’s annual meeting, where Bach is set to be re-elected unopposed, will now take place online instead of in a conference hall in Athens. Bach said the virtual meeting will keep its March 10-12 dates, and Athens will host the annual meeting in 2025. That is when the next president will be elected after Bach reaches the limit of 12 years leading Olympic body.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/speculation-is-hurting-the-athletes-bach/article33689895.ece
29 January 2021||TENKASI:,||Rajkumar powers Minnal to victory||Rajkumar (118 not out) starred in Minnal’s 68-run win over Dada CA in The District Cricket Association Tenkasi league.  The scores:   Minnal 222/3 in 25 overs (Rajkumar 118 n.o.) bt Dada CA 154/8 in 25 overs (Prabhakaran 47, Aji 3/29).   Gravity 127/4 in 25 overs (Mathan Ganesh 45 n.o.) lost to Tuf Beats 130/6 in 16.2 overs (Krishnakumar 3/30).   GK CA 104 in 25 overs (Mahendran 38, Dinesh 3/14, Shanmugam 4/20) lost to Eleven Tigers 105/0 in 13 overs (Shanmugaraj 51 n.o., Mahendran 51 n.o.).   FC 112 in 20.2 overs (Allwin 39, Mahesh Kumar 4/10, Marish Kumar 3/10) lost to Arunachalapuram 113/6 in 17 overs (Ganesh Prathiban 3/37).   Mettur 149 in 23.1 overs (Paul Moses Bilgon 61, Sylesh Kumar 3/21) lost to Integrated Logistics 154/4 in 22.3 overs (Surendar 60).   Super Friends 111 in 20 overs (Pon Lakshmanan 52, Sankara Ramakrishnan 3/29) lost to Rockerz 112/5 in 20 overs.   Paramakalyani 103 in 17.3 overs (Balasubramanian 3/8) bt RC 85 in 23.4 overs (Bala Chandar 3/11).   Rising Elevens 133 in 22.5 overs (Sheik Mydeen 44) bt Vasantham 118/9 in 25 overs (Sam Alexander 3/24).   Veeranam 100 in 22.3 overs (Subramani 4/20) lost to Indian 103/4 in 13.1 overs (Sundaraiah 45 n.o.).   Eleven Star 154 in 24.2 overs (Raj Kumar 36, Prabhakaran 60, Murugan 4/26) bt Future 114 in 21 overs (Vinoth 3/12, Kannan 3/22, Prabhu 3/18).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rajkumar-powers-minnal-to-victory/article33689628.ece
29 January 2021||January 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Tanmay and Takshith crack fine centuries||Centuries by Tanmay Agarwal (101, 95b, 8x4, 5x6) for Sporting XI and A. Takshith Rao (115, 95b, 8x4, 4x6) for Sec’bad Nawabs were some of the highlights of the A1-Division (three-day) league cricket championship on Thursday.  The scores:   A1-Div. (three-day): Second day: Group-A: BDL 350/6 in 90 overs & six for no loss in four overs vs EMCC 316 in 90 overs (Mohul Bhowmick 99, G. Lokesh 49, B. Anirudh 97, Thejodaur 4/55).   Jai Hanuman 356/9 in 90 overs & 72 for no loss in 10 overs (N. Anirudh Reddy 32 batting, G. Shashidhar Reddy 34 batting) vs Sporting XI 280 in 67.3 overs (Tanmay Agarwal 101, Prateek Reddy 34, Himalay Agarwal 50, C. Rakshann Readdi 46, Irfan Khan 3/37, Anurag Vittal 3/44).   Central Excise 334 in 77.1 overs & 56 for no loss in nine overs (Nitesh Reddy 34 batting) vs R. Dayanand 132 in 29.5 overs (Suraj Saxena 34, Dane Johnson 5/40).   SBI 367 in 84.3 overs & 37 for no loss in seven overs vs UBI 372/7 in 90 overs (Ronaly Rodrigues 36, Naveen Reddy 70, Abhinav Kumar 40, Amol Shinde 34, Neeraj Bist 85, M.A. Khader 62).   Deccan Chronicle 378/7 in 90 overs & 174/6 in 36 overs (Yash Kapadia 41, E. Srikar Reddy 40 batting) vs SCRSA 128 in 36.1 overs (G. Shyam Sunder 48, C.V. Milind 3/36).   Budding Star 262 in 64.2 overs & 121 in 32 overs (Bhavesh Seth 63, Raju Yadav 3/12, Owaiz Aslam 3/32) vs Income Tax 189 in 45.4 overs (Harshavardhan 86, B. Sandeep 38, Tanay Tyagarajan 6/59) & 55 for no loss in eight overs.   Group-B: AOC 199 in 59.1 overs & two for no loss in two overs vs MP Colts 356/7 in 90 overs (Ashesh Singh 46, Mickhil Jaiswal 181 n.o., Rahul Radesh 31, Sagar Sharma 3/70).   Cambridge XI 360/9 in 90 overs & 153/1 in 22 overs (Nitish Reddy 79 batting, Vinay Yadav 63 batting) vs Zinda Tilismath 194 in 57.2 overs (Sai Suprith 35, Anirudh 48, Pavan Kumar 4/54, Ashish Srivastav 3/43).   Combined District 179 in 44.2 overs & 204/9 in 40 overs (Ruthvik Surya 35, Md. Khayum 52 n.o., Md. Afreedi 41, M.J.S. Surya Prasad 4/27) vs Continental 253 in 73.3 overs (Aaron Paul 62 n.o., Syed Ali Hyder 45, Sunil Arvind 3/46, Md. Khayum 4/47) & 22/1 in 6.4 overs.   Gemini Friends 344 in 80.2 overs & 170 for no loss in 21 overs (N. Thakur Tilak Varma 90 batting, M. Abhirath Reddy 76 batting) vs Concorde 184 in 58.4 overs (Vignesh Reddy 47, Md. Asaduddin 41, Md. Saif Ali 39, Abdul Ela Qureshi 4/65, Rathan Teja 3/57).   Group-C: Gouds XI 134 in 67 overs & 190/7 in 40 overs (Rahul Varkey 47, Kritik Reddy 41) lost to Baalaji 392/9 in 90 overs (Vamshi Raghava 101, H.K. Simha 75, Ganesh 50, T.V.S. Narayan Teja 4/54).   Sec’bad Nawabs 178 in 57.4 overs & 198/8 in 40 overs (A. Takshith Rao 115, Zafarullah Khan 3/54) vs Sri Chakra 178 in 72.3 overs (Vikas Rao 49, B.K. Ranganath 3/36, P.G. Kaustub 3/43).   Khalsa 207 in 62.2 overs & 84/3 in 21 overs (Sarthak Bharadwaj 40 batting) vs Rohit XI 291 in 85.2 overs (Rohit Reddy 82, Razzak 64, Aliga Nitin 59, Prithvi Reddy 4/73, Md. Saif 3/21).   Charminar 489/7 in 90 overs bt Mahmood 166 in 55 overs (J. Reddy 39, Santosh S.V. 53, Md. Omer Rizwan 5/46, Md. Adnan Ahmed 4/42) & 185/8 in 40 overs (S.V. Santosh 30, Vasanth Bung 45, Md. Adnan Ahmed 3/17).   Apex 314 in 78.4 overs vs Sportive 331 in 88.5 overs (Shaik Sameer 116, Rachnesh Dubey 75, D. Lohit 44, Nitish Kumar 32).    Pushti Ladda shocked top seed Sama Chevika Reddy 6-0, 6-2 in the girls semifinals of the AITA Championship Series under-16 tennis tournament at the Sania Mirza Tennis Academy on Thursday.  The results: Boys: Singles, semifinals: Parth Malik bt Mihir Parcha 4-6, 6-2, 6-4; B. Venkat Rishi bt Vishal Vasudev 6-1, 6-4.   Doubles, final: Mihir & Rishi bt Naishik Reddy & Anish Jain 6-3, 3-6, [12-10].   Girls: Singles, semifinals: Pushti Ladda bt Sama Chevika Reddy 6-0, 6-2; Rishitha Basi Reddy bt Divija Maneni 6-4, 6-0.   Doubles, final: Rishitha & Sai Jahnavi bt K. Rithika & Nysha Baru 6-2, 6-2 .    G-9 Club defeated Airborne Club 36-20 in the final of the CCOB Cup Republic Day basketball tournament at City College ground. Dr. Vijayalaxmi, Principal, City College, and Md. Ali Pasha Quadri, President, CCOB Club, gave away the prizes.  The results (final): G-9 Club 36 (Dinesh 16) bt Airborne Club 20. Semifinals: Airborne Club 37 (Tony 15, Rama 10) bt Saints 23 (Abhishek 10); G-9 Club 37 (Mithil 18) bt YMCA 12 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tanmay-and-takshith-crack-fine-centuries/article33689726.ece
29 January 2021||Antalya (Turkey),||Ramkumar advances||Ramkumar Ramanathan defeated Ernesto Escobedo of the USA 7-6(6), 6-3 in the first round of the €44,820 Challenger tennis tournament here. It was the first victory in three meetings for the 26-year-old Ramkumar against the 24-year-old American. In the $15,000 ITF women’s event in Cairo, top seed Riya Bhatia lost in the second round to Slovenia’s Pia Lovric.  The results:   €44,820 Challenger, Antalya: First round: Ramkumar Ramanathan bt Ernesto Escobedo (USA) 7-6(6), 6-3.   $15,000 ITF, Cairo: Men, first round: Rimpei Kawakami (Jpn) bt Tushar Madan 6-0, 6-2. Women, pre-quarterfinals: Pia Lovric (Slo) bt Riya Bhatia 6-2, 6-3 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ramkumar-advances/article33689454.ece
29 January 2021||January 29 2021 09:25 IST,||Sudoku — January 29, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-january-29-2021/article33690501.ece
29 January 2021||January 29 2021 00:00 IST,||A swig of the Godless Doppelbock||When Abbas Razvi, Kaushal L.S., Aniketh Yadav, Moiz Mustafa, and Ravi Nidarmarthy of Godless, a metal band from Hyderabad, aren’t discussing music or jamming, they hold forth on one topic (apart from music) that unites them — beer. They recently collaborated with Hyderabad-based Over The Moon (OTM) brewing company and introduced Godless Doppelbock, a dark beer. A bock is a strong lager. Bassist Abbas Razvi says they chose to work on a dark beer to go with the profile and genre of the band. With eight albums under their belt, the band members say their love for beers, especially European beers (German and Belgium beer culture), became a passion when they travelled to Europe to perform at various music festivals. Abbas recalls, “After our performances, all we could think of was beer. The Germany and Belgium brews started growing on us and we realised we’d developed a taste for stouts. Thankfully, Hyderabad has the kind of beer we love.” Their love for the malted drink, especially stouts, often found them discussing flavours and brews. Abbas says it was an indication of something they missed drinking. “So we discussed it with Nicholas, the brewer at OTM and he was too happy to take our inputs and work on the flavour profile we wanted,” adds Abbas. He adds, “We spent about a month discussing the taste, and once Nicholas started the brew, we made several rounds to work on the flavour profile. We were very sure that we want something dark, medium to full-bodied, and yet different. Godless Doppelbock is a slightly stronger bock. Once the beer was almost ready, we felt we wanted to complement the chocolatey notes with a nice after-flavour that would balance the bitter aftertaste.” They chose hazelnut, and seem very happy with their choice. “It is not just us; dark beer lovers around the country are loving it too. When we put a teaser about Godless Doppelbock, our followers from Northeast to Pune enquired about when they can lay their hands on it. Unfortunately, it is only on tap at OTM in Hyderabad.”  This beer, like any other bock, is a strong lager.... The band members also share a love for stouts||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/a-swig-of-the-godless-doppelbock/article33689863.ece
29 January 2021||January 29 2021 00:00 IST,||The not-so-humble broken wheat||Through trial and error, Radhika Suresh found a simple recipe to make kozhukatta with broken wheat rava. Not an ingredient that is used frequently in most Malayali homes, varieties of broken wheat recently became a staple when the Kerala government began including them in free kits of grains, pulses, cooking oil, and spices distributed to ration card holders. “Searching for dishes to cook with broken wheat rava has become a necessity since we have been getting one kg packs from the ration shop with the kits from March 2020. Eventually, we became tired of the same old upma . That is when I hit upon the kozhukatta recipe,” says Radhika, project officer of Miyawaki afforestation programme run by Cultural Shoppe. Soba Thomas, a schoolteacher, trawled the Internet and found a recipe to make appam s with the wheat rava . Recipes ofdosa, idli, puttu , upma , payasam , falooda , milkshakes and kanji , all made with varying grades of broken wheat, are also much in demand among homemakers in Kerala. Innovation is the name of the game. “This broken wheat varies in size, from coarsely broken wheat to medium-sized rava and fine-sized broken wheat. That depends on the brand. At present, different kinds are also being sold in neighbourhood provision shops and super markets,” says chef Sandhya Kumar. Satheesh Babu, manager, FMCG in-charge, Supplyco, says the government has been buying the wheat and giving it to registered mills. “So the quality was assured. I believe the government began a trend of broken wheat being used frequently in many households. In the Athijeevana kits, initially given for three months from March, both broken wheat and atta were given along with 15 other items. In all, 85 lakh kits were given in about two-and-a-half months.” He adds that though the initial plan was to give the kits for three months, distribution resumed during Onam and was continued till December 2020. From January 2021 onwards, nine items are being given in the kits, but it does not include broken wheat. Going by the surge in popularity of broken wheat, the government is planning to enter the market with broken wheat under its brand name Sabari. Over the last 10 months, many cookery channels on YouTube, run by Malayalis, have featured wheat rava recipes. Even those running channels from the U.K. and the U.S. have uploaded such videos. U.K.-based Neethu Johns (YouTuber channel: Mums Daily) has uploaded recipes of interesting drinks using the rava , milk, and vegetables like beetroot and carrot. Some of these videos have raked up 1.3 million views. “During a phone call, my mother from Thrissur told me how her help was asking her for recipes to cook the rava . So my mother, a fine cook herself, experimented to make a milkshake and shared the recipe with me. I did my share of experimentation and added a dash of colour with beetroot and carrots,” says Neethu, a mother of four and a software engineer. Since the shake is for children, she wanted to avoid artificial colours. Neethu also has recipes such as appam , custard, laddoo , ice-cream, halwa , kalathappam and more, all with broken wheat.  Ahead of the curve But for Keralal-based K.S. Kumari, the trend is not new. She never misses a chance to cook broken wheat halwa at home. “The halwa is a big hit in my family. Now that there is always a stock of the wheat at home, I am tempted to make it often,” says the retired banker settled at Ettumanoor in Kottayam district. “Dosais the easiest dish to make. Usually the wheat, which is soaked in water for three to four hours, is ground with black gram ( urad dal ) and left to ferment. But I don’t add the dal. Once the wheat is made into a fine batter, I add grated coconut, carrot and sautéed mustard, split black gram, curry leaf, garlic, ginger, onions and tomato to the batter. Crisp dosas can be made immediately,” she says. Rajasree R., a homechef and entrepreneur from Thiruvananthapuram, makes a plethora of such dishes. “I have tried preparing unniyappam . Wheat, soaked in water for half an hour or so, is ground with mashed bananas and jaggery to prepare batter. Add fried coconut, cumin or sesame, if needed. I also make wheat balls, which you can also call the laddoo! To a mixture of jaggery syrup and grated coconut, add broken wheat that is fried. Make balls after adding a little rice flour to it,” she says. Bon appetit!||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/the-not-so-humble-broken-wheat/article33689866.ece
29 January 2021||January 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Thiruvananthapuram’s Turkish romance||Alwin Mathews and friends are on the lookout for “something different” to munch on a Sunday evening in Thiruvananthapuram. They drive by the series of mobile joints flanking the busy Kowdiar-Kuravankonam road, and stop by one vending Turkish-style rolls for a quick bite. “They are quite filling and spicy. Sometimes, I have one for a meal if I plan to skip dinner,” says Alwin. Thiruvananthapuram’s love for the West Asian snack shawarma now appears to have morphed into a trend of tangy Turkish rolls. Come evening, and Turkish roll joints that have mushroomed in the city become abuzz with the chatter of eager customers waiting to ‘grab’ and eat. It’s mostly a young crowd. At Istanbul Grills and Rolls, Kuravankonam, seasoned meat (chicken and beef) stacked around a slow-turning vertical spit gets ready. A deft hand shaves off meat slices that are transferred onto a flat saj bread ( rumali roti ) before onion, lettuce, tomato and some French fries are added. These are topped with mayonnaise and chilli sauce. The flatbread is then folded into a roll, wrapped in butter paper and served hot. Bazil Muhammad, proprietor, says he opened the joint after his travels in Istanbul two years ago. “There’s a street dedicated to meat rolls in Istanbul. I was blown away by the crowd there,” he says. He bought a truck and designed it to suit his requirements. The name, of course, is a tribute to the Turkish city. Competition is tight: close by stands Turkish Ottoman Rolls & Grills. Owner Muhammad Sharif says, “I was earlier running a travel agency that suffered greatly when the lockdown came. In order to retain my staff and help support them, I opened Ottoman.” To make his food as authentic as possible, he roped in cook Sulfikar Sulthan, who has experience preparing Turkish dishes while working with a restaurant in Oman. What primarily differentiates shawarmas from Turkish rolls is the mix of herbs and spices used in the latter. Also, unlike the Arabian shawarma, its Turkish cousin mostly steers clear of cabbage and tomato sauce. But those running these joints want to keep the ingredients that go into the masala a “trade secret”. “Apart from the mix, we use Kashmiri chilli that is added both in crushed and powder form. Mayonnaise, barbecue sauce and a bit of our spicy in-house sauce are added during mixing,” says Amal Raj R. of Turkish Ottoman Leba at Nalanchira. Spicing it up The original Turkish rolls are admittedly less spicy, and restaurateurs here understandably make tweaks to suit the desi palate. Mohammad Fauzan of Turkey Gold, a newly-opened shawarma joint attached to the restaurant Moroccan Midway in Pettah, says a spicy in-house sauce, jalapenos, cheese, tabasco sauce, and mustard sauce are used in their snacks. “I obtained the recipe for our Turkish rolls from a Syrian-origin Turkish chef that I got to know of via Facebook. After trials, we added some of our signature touch as well,” he says. Bab Arabia near Marappalam, which brands itself as a Turkish-Arabic restaurant, is perhaps the only place in the city that offers a wider choice of authentic Turkish cuisine. On the menu are Adana kebab (named after the city of Adana in Turkey), beyti kebab, pide, shish tawook (a type of kebab) and Turkish-style chicken k apama , a meat (beef, chicken or mutton) and rice-based dish. Akbar Kunnappadi, in-charge of Bab Arabia, says, “Authentic Turkish dishes are deemed quite healthy. They need minimal oil but are also less spicy. So we spice up our dishes to suit Malayali tastebuds. For marination, Kashmiri red chilli powder is added. Apart from Turkish spices, we use leaves of rosemary, garlic, black pepper, thyme, olive oil, Himalayan salt (rock salt) and a wee bit of butter for flavour.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/thiruvananthapurams-turkish-romance/article33689860.ece
29 January 2021||January 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Summer’s End Sweet pears||The story so far: Dhruv, Keya and Mishti find Albert in the vegetable garden with a curious story. And through the night, they have the feeling that they’re being watched.  Early the next morning, clutching hot mugs of coffee and discussing their plan of action, they were startled by knocking at the front door. “I’ll get it,” said Albert, whose face still bore the scars of last night’s assault. Moti uncle looked worried and followed him. Mishti was subdued and refused to leave Moti uncle’s side. The house was a mess with things lying all over, as if a hurricane had struck. The rain had stopped and the ground was soggy; the lawn covered with leaves that the wind had ruthlessly plucked from the trees. It was a wet and grim morning. Albert opened the door to find two teenagers. Ready to pick “Uncle, you said we could pluck the pears,” said one. “We came early because my mother wants to take it to the market today.” “Ah…um…yes…ok…” Albert muttered. After they finished the coffee, Albert picked up the cups and said, “I’ll start breakfast. You must be hungry after last night’s excitement.” “That would be nice. Are you up to it? Would you like one of us to help?” asked Moti uncle. “Cooking helps me relax. I’ll be fine.” A piercing scream broke the morning calm. Albert dropped the tray and they ran to the front door. The two boys were clinging to each other; terror writ large on their faces as they looked towards the upstairs windows. “What is it?” shouted Moti uncle. Shivering, one of the boys pointed. Moti uncle looked up and visibly paled. He charged back into the house taking the steps two at a time and barged into his room. But, there was no one there. It was just as he had left it. The others crowded at the door. “What did they see?” asked Dhruv. “No idea. Obviously, something that frightened them so much they screamed,” said Moti uncle. “Let’s find out,” said Keya. They turned to leave and Mishti let out a yowl and cowered in a corner. Half dragging, half carrying her, Keya took her out of the room. Just as she stepped out, she sensed a movement inside. When she turned around, there was nothing. She shrugged and followed the others. Moti uncle was questioning the boys. Albert had brought them hot sweet tea to help them recover from their shock. Shaking and shivering, they said, “We thought uncle was trying to tell us something. We looked up…at that window…”  To be continued...   The two boys clung to each other; terror writ large on their faces...||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/summers-end-sweet-pears/article33690106.ece
29 January 2021||January 29 2021 00:00 IST,||A hero’s salute||1 January 30 is observed as Martyrs’ Day across India. On this date, in 1948, Mahatma Gandhi was assassinated by Nathuram Godse.  2 Two days before his assassination, Gandhiji is said to have made this statement: “If I’m to die by the bullet of a mad man, I must do so smiling. God must be in my heart and on my lips. And if anything happens, you are not to shed a single tear.”  3 Gandhiji’s samadhi is located at Raj Ghat in Delhi. The name roughly translates to ‘Royal Steps’. The samadhis of other famous leaders like Jawaharlal Nehru, Lal Bahadur Shastri, Indira Gandhi, and Morarji Desai are also located near Raj Ghat  4 On this day, the Pesident, the Vice President, the Prime Minister, the Defence Minister, and the the Chiefs of Staff of the armed forces lay wreaths at the memorial in Raj Ghat.  5 The landscaping at the memorial was done by Alick Percy-Lancaster, the last Englishman to hold the post of Superintendent of Horticultural Operations, Government of India.  6 Apart from January 30, five other Martyrs’ Days are observed in India. March 23 is the death anniversary of freedom fighters Bhagat Singh, Sukhdev Thapar and Shivaram Rajguru.  7 May 19 is observed as Bhasha Shahid Divas (“Language Martyrs Day”) in commemoration of the protest as part of the Bengali Language Movement of Barak Valley in Assam.  8 October 21 is Police Martyrs’ Day (or Police Commemoration Day), observed by police departments nationwide.  9 On November 17, the state of Odisha observes the death anniversary of Lala Lajpat Rai as Martyrs’ Day.  10 November 19, the birthday of Rani Lakshmibai, the queen of Jhansi and a fierce opponent of the British rule, is also observed as Martyrs’ Day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/a-heros-salute/article33690131.ece
29 January 2021||January 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Blame games||“Ankur, where is my English Reader?” implored Jaya. “Have you tucked it away in your school bag by mistake?” “Stop being silly, Jaya!” Ankur hissed. “It’s high time you stop accusing me for everything.” “Only last week, you pinched my favourite storybook!” Jaya retorted. “Who? Me? I found it on top of the washing machine.” Dad stomped into the room. “I put my pair of socks on top of the TV set,” he growled. “Now where are they?” “What do you think I’ve done to them?” asked mum angrily. “Dad, stop blaming mum all the time,” said Jaya, Ankur has also picked up this infectious disease from you.” “Here are your socks,” said mum, as she lifted a magazine. “By the way, Jaya, were you the one who ate all the puris I’d made for lunch?” “Mum, I was on your side … and now you’re accusing me...” The culprit “Look, it’s Bow Wow,” said dad pointing to the dog wolfing down the last of the puris. “He’s benefited from our blame games.” “Didn’t you lose your glasses last week and blame me for hiding it?” said Ankur to his sister. “I found the specs inside the microwave oven!” dad laughed. “You must have put it there in your absent-minded way,” Jaya shot back. “Do you know what happened to my mobile phone?” sighed mum. “Dad tried to test its strength by placing it under the tyre of our car!” “Of course, I didn’t!” protested dad. “I was searching for the keys.” Later that morning, Ankur poked his head out of the wash room. “Hey, who took my underpants from the door?” he yelled. “Jaya, was it you?” “Oh, was it yours?” asked dad happily. “My plan worked brilliantly.”  Found them! Bow Wow wandered up, wagging his tail. Ankur’s underpants were wrapped around his belly. Dad had tied them around Bow Wow’s waist. “See! He didn’t wet the floor at all!” he said triumphantly. “How thoughtful!” smiled mum. “I don’t have to mop the floor any more.” “Fine!” screamed Ankur, “Dad, use your underpants next time. Not mine!” “Oh, how wonderful!” exclaimed Jaya, “Dad has not blamed anyone. He has even confessedon his own.” “Thank you, dad,” smiled Ankur. “For putting on brakes to our blame games.” “Let us all take a vow!” suggested dad softly, “to never blame each other again!” Mum, Jaya, and Ankur smiled and agreed.  “I found the specs inside the microwave oven!” dad laughed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/blame-games/article33690090.ece
29 January 2021||January 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Seeing is believing?||H ey everyone! I have a bad case of writer’s block, so I asked my cousin S to take on this week’s column. Don’t worry, S is as cool as I am (though she thinks she’s cooler). She wanted to call the column Bug Girl or Bug Person, but I didn’t want to confuse my long-time, loyal, loving readers. It’s still Bug Boy, okay; don’t let her tell you otherwise.  So, the Bug Boy has writer’s block and asked me to take over till his ‘well of creativity is no longer dry’. His words; NOT MINE. Is it just me, or is BB a little super dramatic sometimes? How do you all put up with him every week? Anyway, I’m doing this strictly as a one-time favour to him. So, allow me to introduce myself. I’m S, 11 years old, live in Chennai and am the coolest girl BB knows. I’m writing this week’s column as #MahilaKisanDiwas trends on Twitter. Now, before you tell my mom or anything, I’m not ON Twitter; I just use her account to doom scroll and see cat videos. Something new Now, the reason this hashtag caught my eye was because when I was a kid — and not so cool or so smart — I thought all farmers were men. It’s not my fault, ok? It’s Old McDonald’s. Ever since the Farmers’ Protests started in Delhi, I’ve been seeing just how many women farm too! And they’re totally rad! Well, apparently not everyone thinks it’s so cool that they’re out there fighting for their rights. The Chief Justice of our country said that protests were no place for women, and that they weren’t safe for them to be at. So, the farmers decided to show just how crucial women are to farming (and everything on the planet) by having a #MahilaKisanDiwas. Now, I’m usually not such a big fan of ‘days for women’. I think that, instead of all the effort people put into celebrating these days and hash tagging, they should just focus on removing all the stupid things standing in the way of women doing what they want. But, I thought MahilaKisanDiwas was pretty cool. Because I’ve never seen women farmers before and because they were doing super cool things like driving a tractor, leading protests and shouting slogans! It made me realise how much we believe based on the images we see. Which is why it’s so important to have more images of women protesting, being vocal and fighting for their rights. Then, no one can say that they don’t have a place in protests. So, if you’re one of those people who think women can’t do this or girls can’t do that, why not do an Internet search? You’d be amazed by how wrong you are! Actually, this whole column writing thing is kind of fun. I hope Bug Boy’s writing block lasts a little longer.  I’ve never seen women farmers before and they were doing super cool things.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/seeing-is-believing/article33690130.ece
29 January 2021||January 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Street-side gourmet||One of the latest additions to the UNESCO’S list of Intangible Cultural Heritage of Humanity isn’t a dish or a custom. It is a culture that is as intrinsic to the country it represents as yoga is to India: Singapore’s Hawker culture. According to the UNESCO, Singapore’s Hawker culture represents “community dining and culinary practices in a multicultural urban context”. This simply means that the street food stalls serve as a space where people from diverse communities and cultures sit and eat together alongside other activities such as chess-playing, busking and art-jamming. Initially, the vendors catered to the less affluent. In the 1960s, the government moved them to specially-built hawker centres to address the need for hygiene and regulation. There are 114 such centres across Singapore serving people from all walks of life and are also major tourist attractions. Local delicacies Every stall has its own speciality. Like Singapore’s own Chilli Crab — spicy, sweet and sour crab served with steamed or deep-fried buns. In 2016, Liao Fan Soya Sauce Chicken Rice & Noodle run by Chan Hon Meng at the Chinatown Complex Food Centre became the first hawker stall in the world to be awarded a Michelin star for a deceivingly simple-looking chicken cooked in soy sauce and served on fragrant rice. It is also “The Cheapest Michelin-starred Meal In The World”. Over the years, several community and non-governmental organisations and educational institutions have played a significant role in promoting and sustaining this hawker culture through training programmes, events and documentation projects. The decision to include this unique culture to the UNESCO Intangibles list was announced at a virtual ceremony on December 16, 2020, giving a boost to the street vendors, especially during the COVID-19 pandemic. Fun facts Gordon Ramsay tried his hand at a challenge against hawkers whose dishes were Chicken Rice, Laksa and Chilli Crab. He won the Chilli Crab challenge but lost the other two. Packs of tissue and bottles of water are used to book tables and seats and customers are advised to carry small change as the dishes are inexpensive. The Singapore Government rates the stalls for Hygiene, awarding an ‘A’ for ‘super clean’ and a ‘D’ for not acceptable. However, the locals joke that A means ‘avoid’ and D is ‘delicious, as the cleaner the stall, the less delicious the food.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/street-side-gourmet/article33690139.ece
29 January 2021||January 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Knowledge powerhouses||When did the first humans arrive in India? What are ancient Roman coins doing in a town near Puducherry? Why does the Khmer language of Cambodia look a bit like Tamil? How did merchants from Arabia end up in Kochi? Find the answers to these questions in The Incredible History of the Indian Ocean by Sanjeev Sanyal, which is filled with fascinating titbits, stories and legends and illustrations and maps. Aryabhatta, Sushruta, Chanakya, Surya Savitri, Patanjali .... Sreelata Menon’s Learned Men and Women of Ancient India is a collection of stories from the lives of seekers and teachers who laid the foundation for the scientists, doctors, philosophers and inventors of today. Whip up a plate with Asma Khan. Strategise about global affairs with Madeline Albright. Venture into business with Rihanna. All of them are immigrants, who left their birth countries for various reasons. In the third volume of the best-selling series Good Night Stories for Rebel Girls. meet 100 Immigrant Women Who Changed the World and inspire girls everywhere to follow their dreams, no matter where they lead. Journey through the animal and plant kingdoms with The Wild Wisdom Quiz Book Volume 3. Bursting with fascinating facts, little-known details and mind-boggling trivia and packed with quirky artwork, the book creates awareness about wildlife, biodiversity and conservation issues. Delve deeper into the world of animals and plants and explore our planet’s natural beauty.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/knowledge-powerhouses/article33690149.ece
29 January 2021||January 29 2021 00:00 IST,||The doctor is in||Across  1 Part of a syringe (6) 5 A doctor’s qualification, abbr. (2) 7 Pain (4) 8 Food is digested here (7) 9 Vehicles that take people to hospitals (10) 13 A ____ sample is used to detect digestive problems (5) 14 Psychological disorder (5) 15 The R in RBC (3) 16 First ___: immediate care for an injured person (5) 17 A radiologist takes an X-___ (3)  Down  2 An ophthalmologist treats this (3) 3 Related to teeth (6) 4 A medical test (4) 5 A spasm is an involuntary contraction of this (6) 6 Place for patients who need intensive care (3) 9 The aorta is an ____ (6) 10 It courses through your veins (5) 11 A malignant tumour (6) 12 Dry crust that forms on a wound (4) 14 The opposite of severe (4)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/the-doctor-is-in/article33690111.ece
29 January 2021||January 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Let the world know how curious you are||Why does February have 28 days?  The reason goes back to the Roman calendar, which came before the Gregorian calendar we now use. The first Roman calendar had just 10 months; in which six had 30 days and four had 31. The Roman king Numa Pompilius wanted to sync this with the lunar year so he added two more months. Since he wanted to avoid having even numbers, which were unlucky according to Roman superstition, he subtracted one day from each of the 30-day months to make them 29. The lunar year consists of 355 days. So he now had 56 days left. At least one month out of the 12 needed to contain an even number of days. So, he opted for February — a month that would host Roman rituals when the dead were honoured — as the unlucky month to have 28 days.    Whatis the colour of the sun?  The sun’s real colour is white. It appears as a yellow ball because the Earth’s atmosphere scatters other colours such as blue, green and violet more easily. Since hues like yellow, orange and red are less easily scattered, the Sun has a yellowish appearance throughout the day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/let-the-world-know-how-curious-you-are/article33690101.ece
29 January 2021||January 29 2021 00:00 IST,||GARFIELD||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/garfield/article33690097.ece
29 January 2021||January 29 2021 00:00 IST,||SUDOKU||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/sudoku/article33690125.ece
29 January 2021||January 29 2021 00:00 IST,||An ancient temple in a commercial hub||Nestled in the heart of George Town’s commercial hub, the guardian deity of Thambu Chetty Street continues to keep silent vigil over its noisy, traffic-choked bustle. The two rajagopurams of the goddess’ centuries-old abode, the Kalikambal temple, tower over adjacent structures in colourful, sculpted tiers. ‘Kalikambal is the sowmya swarupa (amsa) of Adi Shakti,’ says T.S. Kalidas, the hereditary priest, whose ancestors have been this temple’s archakas for generations. ‘Consecrated by the Sri Chakra, the seated ambal holds the pasa and ankusha in her two upper hands, the nilotpala blossom in the lower right, with her lower left hand in varada hasta. A unique feature is that the deity in the garbha griha faces west. This intensifies Ambal’s power as kshipra prasadini (swift granter of boons). Kalikambal is venerated by the local vendors, traders and residents for bringing success and prosperity in business and commerce. The annual utsavam held in the Vaikasi month includes the special chariots ‘Poonther’ and ‘Kinnither’, and Shiva is worshipped as Kamateswarar. Shivaji’s visit History buffs are fascinated by a significant event dating back to the 17th century. On October 3, 1677, Chhatrapati Shivaji, the Maratha king and warrior-general, is said to have visited this temple. Renowned for winning several fierce battles against the Mughal armies and for staving off enemy advances towards the south, the emperor, a staunch devotee of the goddess Bhavani, is believed to have paid obeisance to Kalikambal. The temple houses an image of the king on horseback and a stone inscription specifying the date. Renowned poet Mahakavi Subramania Bharati, who lived in Thambu Chetty Street during his Swadesamitran days, used to visit the temple. His intense outpourings of devotion found expression in verses such as ‘Yaadumaagi nindrai Kali’ (Kali Paattu, Kali Stotram). S. Subbusundaram, a long-time devotee, says, “The earliest recorded references to this deity appear to date back to the mid-1600s, when she was worshipped at the seashore by the residents of three fishing hamlets. Anointed red with sindoor, the goddess was called Chenni Amman. After 1639, when the British East India company began building Fort St. George and acquired surrounding settlements for their warehouses and commercial establishments, the temple was relocated inside the Fort, with the goddess known as ‘Kottai Amman’. When the Vishwakarma community of artisans migrated to Tiruvallikkeni to work on the construction of the Parthasarathy Swami temple, they transported stone from Tiruvannamalai to build the Kalikambal temple. Over time, the goddess became one of their chief deities, with the Vishwakarmas vanguarding the temple’s activities and administration. When forced to relocate again, they built the present temple under the guidance of Muthumari Achari. Says Kalidas, “Although the exact date of construction is unknown, a coin dating to the mid-1800s, discovered during the dwajasthamba pratishta in 2018, testifies to the present temple’s existence at that point and perhaps earlier. The earliest structures are the moolasthana, the utsava, and Nataraja’s granite mandapams. Later additions include the west rajagopuram built under the aegis of my grandfather in 1940, the Vishwa Brahma shrine, and the east rajagopuram completed in 1983.” New silver doors Adds Sarveswaran Achari, the temple’s managing trustee, “The most recent work has been a major renovation of the utsava ambal’s palli arai ( sleeping chamber). While the customary puja is performed after 8 p.m., a special puja will be held to consecrate the chamber in the evening today. Everyone is welcome to attend.” A new set of ornate silver doors and embossed brass walls are also part of the renovaton. Helming the project is S. Subbusundaram. Hailing from Valayapatti, his association with the Kalikambal temple spans 40 years. Sundaram says, “The teakwood doors are encased in intricately embossed silver sheets and the brass-plated walls were hand-worked by traditional master craftsmen in Pudukkottai.”  The Chennai-based author writes on music and heritage.    The earliest recorded references to this deity appear to date back to the mid-1600s S. Subbusundaram||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/an-ancient-temple-in-a-commercial-hub/article33689261.ece
29 January 2021||January 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Tyagaraja as inspiration||It is now more or less accepted that the songs sung at the Tyagaraja Aradhana are only those of the composer. And yet this was not so at least until the mid-1940s when songs in praise of Tyagaraja too were heard in Tiruvaiyaru. Thus we know that till his passing in 1919, Ramanathapuram Poochi Srinivasa Iyengar invariably sang ‘Sadguru swamiki sari’, his composition in raga Ritigowla in praise of Tyagaraja, at the Aradhana. Later, his disciple Bangalore Nagarathnamma made it a point to sing the same song, once the ritual waving of camphor was done. She also recited an ashtottara (a set of 108 names) on Tyagaraja that she had composed. Poochi Iyengar was not, however, the first to compose in Tyagaraja’s praise. That honour should probably go to the bard’s first cousin and also in all likelihood his first disciple — Manambucchavadi Venkatasubbier. His composition ‘Swamiki sari’ in raga Devagandhari is a very moving tribute, which incorporates some phrases from a few Tyagaraja kritis. Yet another prominent disciple was Walajahpet Venkataramana Bhagavatar, whose Mangalashtakam, a set of eight verses on Tyagaraja is fairly well known. But some of his other compositions on his preceptor have not been heard — ‘Guru charanam’ (Sankarabharanam) and ‘Guruvaru mahimala’ (Ananda Bhairavi) are but two. When Tyagaraja visited Venkataramana Bhagavatar at Walajahpet, the latter’s disciple, Mysore Sadasiva Rao, composed a song — ‘Sri Tyagarajaswami vedalina’ in Thodi, which is now lost. It is quite clear that even in his lifetime, Tyagaraja was much venerated and the subject of many songs. Paeans of praise It is interesting to note that the urge to compose in praise of Tyagaraja continued well into the 20th century. Harikesanallur Muthiah Bhagavatar created ‘Tyagarajaswami Sadguruvani’ in Hindolam. It encapsulates many details of Tyagaraja’s life as seen in contemporary accounts. Mysore Vasudevachar, also of the Tyagaraja lineage via Patnam Subramania Iyer and Manambucchavadi Venkatasubbier, given his felicity in Sanskrit, chose that language for his piece on Tyagaraja. ‘Srimadadi Tyagaraja guruvaram’ is in Kalyani. In more recent times, M.D. Ramanathan’s ‘Tyagaraja gurum’ in raga Kedaram is a great piece. In its gait and in the structuring of the entirely Sanskrit lyrics, it brings to mind Dikshitar more than Tyagaraja, but is one of the finest tributes to the composer. There is also no dearth of compositions in Tyagaraja’s praise in Tamil. Koteeswara Iyer’s song in Bilahari — ‘Ini namakkoru kavalaiyum illai’ records a vision that he had in his dream of Tyagaraja. He ends the composition with a line that pays tribute to his tutelary deity Murugan and Tyagaraja together! Papanasam Sivan’s ‘Ittharaniyil Tyagaraja sadguru’ is in Begada. It is remarkable for the same sentiment as Koteeswara Iyer’s creation — that the singing of Tyagaraja’s songs is a cure for all worries. There is also a song by him on the Carnatic Trinity — ‘Sangita trimurthigalai panindhu’ in raga Kedaragowla — it is probably the only composition where the trio — Syama Sastri, Tyagaraja and Muthuswami Dikshitar — are mentioned together. Women composers Women other than Bangalore Nagarathnamma were moved to compose on Tyagaraja too. A song in Tamil is D. Pattammal’s ‘Tyagabrahma kathamritham.’ Set in nine ragas, it gives the composer’s entire biography as narrated in the Harikatha tradition. It is noteworthy that in the song, Tyagaraja’s much-maligned elder brother has a new sin visited on him. He is blamed for burning Tyagaraja’s works — a tale not available in any other source. But the song itself a worthy tribute. Years ago, when I called on the great scholar T.S. Parthasarathy, he showed me a composition on Tyagaraja by ‘Andavan Picchai,’ which was the pseudonym of a woman composer, better known for her devotion to Murugan. Sadly I made no note of it then. Ambujam Krishna, the lyricist, was inspired to begin her journey in music during a visit to Tiruvaiyaru. It is therefore no surprise that she has a song, ‘Tyagarajaswami padambujam’ in Atana. The greatest corpus of songs on Tyagaraja is also by a woman — K.M. Saundaryavalli. Titled Sri Tyaga Guru Stuti Kirtanaigal , there are 30 songs, commended by Bangalore Nagarathnamma herself, in a letter dated November 18, 1951. The songs, with handwritten notations by the composer, were privately published. Many of the pieces make liberal use of Tyagaraja’s lyrics. N. Rajagopalan in his compilation, The Melodic Garland , gives details of her life. Born in 1914, she had her tutelage in music under nagaswaram artiste Murugula Sitaramayya. The death of the first six of her children made her take to composing as a prayer. She was later blessed with healthy progeny. Saundaryavalli became a prolific composer and the songs on Tyagaraja form but one part of her corpus. Perhaps no composer before and after Tyagaraja inspired such a flood of compositions, spanning a century and more. But then, Tyagaraja is unique.  The Chennai-based historian writes on music and culture.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/tyagaraja-as-inspiration/article33689252.ece
29 January 2021||January 29 2021 00:00 IST,||The bite-size purana||Akka, akka,” calls out a young girl to her sister as she arranges the dolls representing Vishnu’s 10 avatars. The older sibling gently puts the dolls in correct order, then performs a small dance depicting the Dasavataram to a verse from Jayadeva’s Gita Govindam . This video sequence introduces the viewer to the avatars, to Jayadeva and the Gita Govinda , and the Navaratri ritual of golu , all in a span of three minutes. The tale of Rudraksh In another video, a young boy named Rudraksh tells the story behind his name, explaining about Shiva and the rudrakshamala, and goes on to play the tabla, identifying Shiva as the god of rhythm. A team of 70 young storytellers presented stories like these in 55 episodes of a series that was streamed online over 42 days recently. Kutty Kahani — Eternal Stories, Young Storytellers was the brainchild of Bharatanatyam dancer and guru Ananda Shankar Jayant, who is also the founder of Natyarambha. With so many children stuck at home during the pandemic, Ananda saw that children who had their grandparents living with them got to listen to traditional tales from the two epics and learn about the myths. But many other children were left out. “Since these children are unfamiliar with many parts of cultural history, I used the digital platform to make some such stories accessible to them in a medium they are comfortable with,” she says. Colourful themes Ananda’s brief was clear. The narration was to be done by children aged between five and 13, in any language, through any art form of their choice — from mime to poetry. She asked the parents to make sure the video stories were less than five minutes long, so that they could be informative and interesting but not tedious. And she wanted to add something more, to compete with the glut of visual content on the market. “Gunjan Ashtaputre, my designer, not only created a colourful animation theme, but also enhanced the narratives in each episode with images of sketches, added on to make the narrative more impactful,” she says. It’s not just the visuals — the theme music is also distinctive. Reminiscent of Jim Reeves’ ‘Bimbo,’ it is quick to capture the attention of young children. The videos in their final avatar went through a long process to get there. Ananda had made it clear that complete responsibility for creating the stories lay with the parents. She had to send several videos back, asking them to stick to the stipulated format and length. In some cases, she had to ask them to record the voice separately, so that it could be synchronised later with the visual content. The content was then edited and sent for animation. That’s when visuals drawn from the storyline as well as subtitles in English and regional languages were added. Relevant slokas were interspersed wherever possible. Narthaki.com, Anita Ratnam’s dance portal, came forward as a digital partner for streaming. SBI and the Indian Council for Cultural Relations, New Delhi, also supported the initiative. When the videos went online, the advantage of the digital format was immediately clear — they attracted a large viewership. “The most satisfying experience has been the fact that everything from communication to creation has been done digitally,” says Ananda. “Once we started streaming it, the response was phenomenal and children across the globe came forward to participate with great enthusiasm. So overwhelming has been the response that we will need to present another season later. It would be exciting if the idea gains momentum and more people come forward.”  The author is a Chennai- based freelance writer.    I used the digital platform to make these stories accessible to them in a medium that they’re comfortable with -Ananda Shankar Jayant||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/the-bite-size-purana/article33689243.ece
29 January 2021||January 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Home is where the art is||Work from home is the new normal for many of us. For many artistes, however, home has always been a site for work and contemplation. Artistes who work out of home studios. Musicians who practise at home. Theatre practitioners who begin work on a play at home. For artistes, home is perhaps always an in-between space, a reconciliation between private and public life. An artiste’s home is also a space for discussion with others and rehearsals and brainstorming. It is where a work of art is born before it reaches the public, while baithaks and home concerts have always been a part of music performance in the country. Amidst the pandemic, artistes have turned to their homes in a more intense way, bringing the stage into the home so to speak. Some have opened up their homes to host performances for limited audiences. And in the process, the artiste’s home has also become a performance space — an interaction between the inner and outer worlds of the artiste and her art. A space that was perhaps only used by the artiste to create her work is now being shared and extended. In many ways, one could see this activity as the opening up of the private for the public. For limited audience Musicians Shubhendra and Saskia Rao have been hosting a series of concerts, ‘Unlock the Music,’ in their Delhi home. All health protocols and social distancing norms are strictly followed, and only around 20 people are allowed. . The concerts are advertised on social media and tickets are sold online on a first-come, first-served basis. The first concert featured a performance by Dhrupad exponent Ustad Wasifuddin Dagar, who was elated to sing for a live audience. Shubhendra says, “There are barely any monetary gains, as you can imagine from the size of the audience. Both musicians and listeners have been eagerly waiting for live performances, and then there is the unmistakable intimacy of a small concert. This format has also allowed us to meet a new group of listeners.” During the lockdown, theatre veteran Neelam Mansingh created a new solo-actor play, Black Box . She decided to host performances at her small home theatre in Chandigarh. Ten shows have been held so far. Each performance saw an audience of around 15 members, who sat distanced from each other. The doors and windows were also left open. Mansingh sees this as an event in itself. She reasons, “I think this is a much more natural way of staging a performance, where I invite the public to the space where the performance was conceived, worked upon and created. I find this to be a more meaningful way of sharing my work rather than taking the play to a commercial theatre.” Home turned into museum An interesting contrast to the above experiences is the Museum of Goa, an initiative by artist Subodh Kerkar, who invested his savings to create a museum in his home village of Saligão in North Goa. Kerkar conceived the museum as an extension of his home where he could freely meet visitors, often inviting them for an impromptu meal. During the lockdown, the artist decided to move to the museum. He was its sole occupant and audience. “The whole museum became a home to me. I started living there and produced a lot of work in seclusion. I completed a set of drawings and finished a book for children, besides participating in various webinars and online lectures,” he says. Kerkar also went for little walks in and around the museum, and shared the videos on social media. Many of these videos narrate the history of Saligão. The artist discovered the privacy of home in an otherwise public space. Perhaps these experiences will be the genesis of a new body of art, a truly homemade initiative. The writer is a culture critic. He teaches literary & cultural studies at Flame University, Pune.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/home-is-where-the-art-is/article33689269.ece
29 January 2021||January 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Hidimbi reborn||Pratiroop is a recent online series hosted by Warrier Foundation to promote classical art and raise funds for underprivileged children. Senior gurus such as Rama Vaidyanathan, Vyjayanthi Kashi, Dr. Neena Prasad, Sharmila Biswas and Prerana Shrimali, representing different genres, have mentored dancers Prateeksha Kashi, Nishtha Budhlakoti, Rohini Banerjee, Divya Warrier and Keertana Ravi, respectively. “We have been able to reach over ten lakh people across our social media platforms, taking them through the actual journey of how an artiste evolves. The series was powered by Indian Raga and guided by their CEO Sriram about how to change viewer perceptions towards research-oriented productions and to reach new global audiences,” says Divya Warrier. Interactive sessions Divya, a Mohiniyattam dancer, disciple of Jayashree Nair and Dr. Neena Prasad, was mentored by Guru Sharmila Biswas. The presentation begins with an interaction between the mentor and mentee. Says Biswas, “All our skills arise from inherent passions, different for each person. Developing skills to perform is by itself very creative.” Choosing Hidimbi as the nayika was a conscious effort by Divya to come out of her comfort zone. A rakshasi , the cannibal wife of Bhima, she was a woman with strong likes and dislikes. How did she bring up her son with ethics and values as a single mother? Once the subject was decided, Biswas instructed Divya to read and research. After about a month of reading everything from Vedavyasa to Peter Brooks, ancient and modern texts in Hindi, Malayalam and English, Divya ended up with a vast volume of notes, crowded and confused. Biswas set some basic rules for the script. Divya wanted to look at Hidimbi as a person, not influenced by conventional thoughts. It was not the image of a demon grotesque, loud, heavy-footed, but an agile and innocent mother with the wisdom of the animal world. Divided into segments The next step was to divide the story into scenes, including soundscape, dialogues, and basic movements. Gradually the script emerged. Putting together the music was a challenge, the singer from Kerala, the lyricist from Delhi, percussionist and recording person from Mumbai. Next came the choreography. “Sharmila didi wanted me to explore a few things — Hidimbi’s signature walk and usage of Vachika.” Divya learnt how to communicate effectively, about the importance of extensive research and analytical thinking, and about sticking to traditions while having an open viewpoint and objectivity. In the opening scene, Hidimbi performs morning puja. Her toddler son Ghatotkach interrupts her constantly. Their playfulness is like a tigress and her cub. The music is a ritualistic chanting followed by a lullaby. As Ghatotkach grows up, he is shown getting trained in astra, maya shastra and the ethics of warfare, Dharma Gyana. The smoke effect adds to the visual impact. Ample facial expressions, detailed hand gestures, and body language bring out Hidimbi’s persona. The next scene, inspired by Punar Milan of Prasuraam Rajshekar Basu, brings out the soft and romantic dimension of Hidimbi when she meets her Aryaputra. The use of English dialogue, while effective in conveying the mind voice, is a bit too sophisticated in the conversations with Ghatotkach. There are patches where the dialogue and music seem to overlap. The deployment of tanam and alaap sets the right mood for the scene. The Kurukshetra war starts. Ghatotkach is eager to join the family war, and his frustration is depicted clearly. Then the call comes and Hidimbi sends him with joy. Poignant depiction Hidimbi sees the war through her mayadrishthi and cheers the valorous feats of her son. When he is slain and in deep anguish, she flies to the battlefield and protects her son’s body from the hovering vultures. The metaphysical dimension of the cannibal mother is explicitly brought out by Divya’s eloquent abhinaya. The pained mother watches the celebrations in the Kaurava camp. Why is there a celebration in the Pandava camp? The story of Hidimbi ends on this poignant note. She carries her son and flies away. The music direction and percussion (udukkai, chendai and mridangam) is by Satish Krishnamoorthy, music composition and vocals by Jayan Kottakal, and lyrics by Dr. Chandrashekaran Nair. The opening conversation segment between the mentor and mentee is a bit too long and tedious. Effective use of stage space and light added to the quality of the programme. The use of props, particularly the red drape and white screen as Divya moves in and out of the shots, was proof of some good video editing by Krishna Perla. The Mohiniyattam costume refurbished with a dhoti-pant suited Hidimbi’s boisterous image. Divya plans to add two more scenes, Hidimbi as nayika and daughter-in-law for future shows.  The Mumbai-based author writes on music and dance.   Choosing Hidimbi as the nayika was a conscious effort by Divya to come out of her comfort zone||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/hidimbi-reborn/article33689271.ece
29 January 2021||January 29 2021 00:00 IST,||To mother with love||“Music comes to me more readily than words” – Ludwig Van Beethoven. What the great German composer said resonates in Bombay Jayashri’s music. Most children are introduced to music through lullabies sung by their mothers, and that becomes the most important bond that connects the child to the mother and the music. So it was with Jayashri. With her musician-parents as her initial gurus, the vocalist’s progress from lullabies to ragam tanam pallavi happened in the most natural manner. Music soothed her and this soothing quality extends to her music as well. Nominated for the Oscars for her lullaby in Life of Pi, she has now been awarded the Padma Shri. Bringing up her daughter in Bombay, known for its cosmopolitan culture, perhaps inspired her mother Seetha Subramanian to instil in Jayashri an open-mindedness towards art. She made her daughter not only listen to different genres of music but learn them as well. Thus, Jayashri grew up listening to ‘Sangeet Sarita’ on the radio, where one chosen raga would be rendered in Hindustani and Carnatic styles and also in film songs. It was this that prepared Jayashri to view music beyond borders and classifications. Growing up in Bombay also meant training the mind to focus amidst the sounds from neighbouring houses in an apartment building. But it also meant getting to hear a Rafi song from one window and a Bangla song from the other. Jayashri began her musical journey singing advertisement jingles and participating in light and classical music competitions. It was against this backdrop that young Jayashri began her crucial learning years under one of the finest teachers, Balamani, who opened up the world of music for her, besides laying a strong foundation in Carnatic music . A chance meeting with legendary violinist Lalgudi Jayaraman made Jayashri move to Chennai to train under him. He inspired her in more ways than one. He taught her not just musical nuances but to appreciate everything that spurs creativity — the blossoming of the flower, the sunset, the birds feeding their young. Jayashri acknowledges the role of her musical team as much as she does that of her various collaborators. Every time she worked with music directors such as M.S. Viswanathan, Ilaiyaraja, Harris Jayaraj or Jayachandran, or partnered with dancers like Chitra Visweswaran, Leela Samson and Alarmel Valli, it was an enriching experience. The lessons learnt from the two cities continue to inspire her, and though she carries the prefix of the city where she spent her growing up years, the city that is home to her now defines her music. Jayashri has also used her music to reach out to children. Her video ‘Journey into autism’ led to several other projects. For the past eight years, Jayashri and her students have been visiting Manjakkudi to share their music with underprivileged students. Dedicating the Padma Shri to her gurus, Jayashri says it fulfils the dream of her mother, the one who nurtured her musical vision.     The author is a Chennai-based   freelance writer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/to-mother-with-love/article33689273.ece
29 January 2021||January 29 2021 00:00 IST,||The journey to Tiruvaiyaru||As I sign off the Margazhi concerts, the path of musical pilgrimage in the new year opens up and charts my course. I board the car to be by the banks of the Cauvery on Bahula Panchami in January… and my destination is the sands of Tiruvaiyaru. For over three decades, year after year, this has been a ritual. With the Cauvery flowing serenely, there cannot be a better place to simply calm the mind, sing in abandon and surrender at the feet of the saint-poet. The energy that envelops Tiruvaiyaru during the Tyagaraja Aradhana cannot be expressed fully enough in words. To me, such congregations that reverberate with musical fervour and surrender only reinforce our value system. Enough research has been done and reams have been written on Tygaraja. He is a constant companion of every musician and music lover. He is a hierophant whose life demystifies religion and brings in a consciousness to those who perceive it as such. Though Tyagaraja composed a large number of kritis, each one a gem, sadly only around 700 are available today that are being sung and shared. Every song carries a strong yet gentle message. His compositions speak elaborately about the fleeting nature of life, suggesting that one should not develop too many attachments. Some of them like ‘Sugunamule Cheppukonti’ in raga Chakravakam also talk about surrendering to the supreme being. Schools of meditation worldwide aim at calming the confused mind and what better way can there be than a Tyagaraja composition to achieve this. He did not preach, but gave poignant musical expression to his devotion for Rama that serve as great life lessons. My grand guru G.N. Balasubramaniam extols Tyagaraja and says that he has composed the kritis in such a way that they allow the singer to bring out the essence of the ragas in a pleasing and satisfying manner, thereby giving abundant scope for manodharma. For this annual pilgrimage, my planning begins in October-November, when I check the date of the Panchami thithi and the Pancharatnam singing. I accept no other invitation during this time. It is like a pre-determined process that simply sets my concert calendar on its own. Some years, I have travelled twice to Tiruvaiyaru during the festival — to perform on the inaugural day and then again for the group singing.   An instance that comes to my mind is when I accompanied my guru, M.L. Vasanthakumari, for the first time to perform here. We sang ‘Mariyadha gadhiyya’ in raga Bhairavam. The pallavi is set in a manner that one vocalist can sing in the usual pitch and the other in the higher octave. I sang in the higher octave. After the concert, many in the audience expressed their appreciation of my singing to MLV amma. I was delighted to be lauded at this sacred venue and in the presence of my guru. In the year 2000, just a few days before the Aradhana (January 23) I was in Paris to perform at Theatre de la ville. But I knew I could not miss the annual event. So I landed in Chennai on January 22 and headed straight to Tiruvaiyaru. Another year, I got jaundice before my concert for Doordarshan’s South Zone programme at the Tygaraja Aradhana Festival.I was advised rest but I brushed aside caution and travelled. I stayed with a friend, where I was given a special diet, and I performed to my satisfaction and I was at peace. No medicine could have given me that feeling of well-being that the singing gave. In 2017, when I got the rare honour of presiding over the inaugural function of the 250th birth anniversary of this great composer, I felt it was his way of rewarding my perseverance. Many a times, during the group singing, I have heard comments about the lack of synchrony, or a lag in sruti or sangatis. I am undeterred by such criticism. It is only the experience and the ecstasy of the music that matter. The journey continues. The pandemic has impacted this year’s festival, but you realise nothing can stop the music from reigning in Tiruvaiyaru. When I sit in front of the sanctum sanctorum and begin to sing, ‘Jagadhanandakaraka’, the first Pancharatna kriti set in Nattai, my musical pilgrimage for the year is done.  The writer is a senior      Carnatic vocalist.   Some years, I have travelled twice to Tiruvaiyaru during the festival — to perform on the inaugural day and then again for the group singing||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/the-journey-to-tiruvaiyaru/article33689248.ece
29 January 2021||January 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Numerous strings in my lute||N. Rajendran presents his veenas with the flourish of a jeweller, carefully lining up the handcrafted string instruments against the wall of his drawing room in Thanjavur with the ‘kudam’ (resonator) resting on doughnut-shaped cushions on the floor. It’s been raining heavily, and there’s no electricity in Rajendran’s locality. A small candle is holding on bravely. The flickering flame picks up Rajendran’s workmanship as he removes the red canvas covering of the instruments. The strings seem to respond automatically to his touch as he takes off the wooden slat protecting the fingerboard. “This one took me more than a week to complete,” he says, pointing to a reddish-brown veena inlaid with etched silver along its edges. “And this one, with the Ashta-Lakshmi (eight manifestations of Goddess Lakshmi) on the kudam , also needed more effort than usual,” he adds. Inherited genius At 62 years, Rajendran is a fourth generation maker of the veena in Thanjavur, the inheritor of a heritage craft that is practised by around 150 people here. He makes bespoke string instruments like the Saraswathi Veena, Ekantha Veena, Rudra Veena and Tanpura in his home-based workshop in the temple town’s Srinivasapuram neighbourhood. Rajendran was recently in the news for making a replica of the ‘Mayuri Yaazh’, an ancient open-stringed harp of Tamil music with the resonator base shaped like a peacock. “I’m hoping to make one with the face of a lion next,” he says. Even though he grew up watching veenas being made, and got trained in the family business himself, Rajendran didn’t really take it up professionally until his father Natarajan passed away. “I was working in a bus company in Pollachi when my father died. I didn’t want this craft to disappear, so I quit my job and returned home at the age of 20 to Thanjavur,” he says. A lot has changed in the 40-odd years that Rajendran has devoted to the craft. “We used to stick the different parts of the veena with vajram , a gum made from heated plant resin, and nail them into place with hand-shaven bamboo slivers. These have been replaced by industrial epoxy adhesive and iron nails now,” he says. The GI tag To keep the weight (within five kilos) bearable for long hours of playing, the smaller secondary ‘kudam’ of the veena is now made of reinforced plastic (fibre) rather than wood. The Thanjavur veena was awarded a Geographical Indications (GI) tag in 2014, but this has not really changed things much on the ground, says Rajendran. “Though the minimum price of a veena is Rs. 30,000, artisans can earn only around Rs. 5,000 per piece after deducting labour and material costs,” he says. A more ornately engraved instrument can fetch up to Rs. 60,000. The perfectionist in him makes him stay away from supplying music stores with the lower priced models. “Usually, cheaper veenas are made of low-grade wood and are vulnerable to damage. I prefer to work on personal orders, and give a three-year guarantee. My son or I deliver the instrument personally, and I also take care of repairs,” he says. The right wood The wood is sourced from the jackfruit trees grown in Panruti (176 km from Thanjavur, in Cuddalore district). “The ‘pazha’ (jackfruit) is the best wood for musical instruments because it gives a good vibration. We need seasoned wood, which should be at least 50 years old, to make instruments like the veena, thavil and mridangam,” says Rajendran. A small truckload (enough for 10 veenas), costs him approximately Rs. 75,000. “The wood is cut into two-inch thick pieces. We then bring it home and further plane it down to 12 mm thickness. All of it is manual work,” he says, showing me the hollowed out casing of a Rudra Veena. The toughest to make is the ‘Ekantha Veena,’ which uses the entire trunk of a single tree. “You can make three Saraswathi Veenas with the wood of one Ekantha Veena,” says Rajendran. “But more people want to play the Ekantha Veena these days because it gives a better musical resonance.” Rajendran was awarded the District Craft Award for best craftsman three years ago by Poompuhar, the Tamil Nadu Handicrafts Development Corporation Ltd. “A traditional instrument maker like me has to be skilled in more than just carpentry and woodwork,” he says. “I formally learned Carnatic music for two years just to understand how to tune the veena. It took me a year simply to learn how to identify sruti (pitch).” The legacy He sounds wistful when he admits that his son, though trained in veena making, will not be following in his footsteps. “Young people have far more profitable career options these days. But I have taught four others to make these instruments instead. They’ve apprenticed under me for over 10 years, and I’m confident that they will take the craft forward,” says Rajendran. As the rain lets up, and the electrician turns on a tester bulb on a naked wire to help us take photographs, we catch a clearer glimpse of Rajendran’s workshop. The chisels and hammers look like they haven’t changed from his ancestors’ days. “I love working with wood,” says Rajendran, as he carefully taps out grooves on the ‘kudam’. “And to me, there’s nothing better than making veenas.”  I formally learned Carnatic music for two years just to understand how to tune the veena. It took me a year simply to learn how to identify sruti||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/numerous-strings-in-my-lute/article33689266.ece
29 January 2021||January 29 2021 00:00 IST,||‘The pollen waits on tiptoe’||“The Nārayaṇa of the lotus-heart has/ himself turned into the mortal Datta;/ as Ambikātanaya he mirrors in Kannada/ the universe’s inner voice.” - Ambikatanayadatta Since I began to seriously engage with it several years ago, I have come to believe that the Kannada poetry of Dattatreya Ramachandra Bendre is the best-kept secret in world literature. Born in the historic, culture-rich region of Dharwad as the 19th century rolled towards the 20th, Da. Ra. Bendre was a born poet, a true lyric genius whose poetry was “not so much his own as it was Kannada’s” (his own words), and not so much crafted as it was inspired and delivered to him by the ‘poetic power’ within him, which he named Ambikatanayadatta in honour of his mother Ambika. His genius helped Bendre create a new poetic style in Kannada that was radical, all-embracing and that effortlessly wove the janapada (folk idiom) of his beloved Dharwad into the fabric of modern Kannada poetry. Relentlessly inventive, Bendre’s 1427 Kannada poems spanned the spectrum — from the folksy to the formal, from the recitable to the incantatory, from the simple to the complex, from the worldly to the otherworldly — and he would soon come to be recognised as a varakavi , a heaven-touched poet; with the gift to use the Kannada language in ways previously unconsidered, much less explored. Of particular note is Bendre’s audacious and wholly original sublimation of Dharwad’s folk dialect into high lyric poetry — and that too in a language with an over-thousand-year classical literary history. This is likely without parallel in both Indian and world literature. By doing this, Bendre produced a poetry that Wordsworth, Coleridge and later Yeats all wished to write but never could; namely a poetry written “in the real language of men”. “In the poem’s heart, in the lotus’s womb,/ the pollen waits on tiptoe;/ your slightest kiss itself’s enough/ for a new creation to show.” Translating Bendre I began to translate Bendre into English to actively engage with his poems and to better understand his poetry by transferring them to the language I knew best. The necessarily “creative engagement” involved in such a transfer made the experience both fascinating and revelatory. Since I first ventured to translate a Bendre poem some five years ago, working to capture the naada or euphony that is at the heart of Bendre’s poetry has given me the chance to play with, flex, bend, and stretch the English language in all sorts of experimental ways. Given Bendre’s professedly deep affection for the rasika, it is extremely gratifying to have engaged with his poetry in such a capacity. “Push them, blow them, make them fly,/ let them fly as much they will;/these feathers that were born to fly,/ these feathers on a bird’s body.” A literary gap Hailed as 20th-century Kannada poetry’s crown-jewel, much feted and loved by the Kannada people, recipient of the Jnanapeetha award (India’s highest literary honour) and a legend during his own lifetime, it is nonetheless true that Bendre’s poetry did not really receive the international recognition it deserved — for several reasons, including its profound Kannada-ness, Kannada’s limited political mileage, and the lack of truly excellent translations. Though this never bothered Bendre (who never went abroad despite being invited to poetry festivals and workshops), it is a gap that, literature-wise, deserves rectifying. Like Bendre says in the lines above — in which the feather serves as a metaphor for a poem (each, at its finest, an exquisitely ethereal creation) — it is up to us, his rasika readers, to “push... blow... and make... fly” his luminous poem-feathers; whether they be “Kannada feathers” or “English feathers” or both. “The churn and churning of the word/ brought forth a euphony;/ it felt a joy – it spread a joy –/ in its own love it was happy;/ it did not mean – it did not want – it was just lyric poetry.” These lines are some of the most famous lines in all of Bendre’s poetry. Presented here as six lines, they are actually a transcreation of the three lines that make up the last stanza of Bendre’s famous ‘The Lyric Poem’; often understood to be “the poem that puts forth Bendre’s poetic credo”. Despite the suffering and heartache he faced, Bendre’s poetic yoga included endeavouring to transform his suffering into song. As he famously declared, “Rasika, let my troubles stay my own/ I will give you just their song!”  The author is a writer and translator.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/the-pollen-waits-on-tiptoe/article33689245.ece
29 January 2021||January 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Global dance and music contest||The International Carnatic Musician and Dancers Association will conduct an online competition for young music and dance learners. The competition will be conducted in three categories — State, National and International. Veteran violinist A. Kanyakumari; senior dancer Parvati Ravi Ghantasala; and saxophone artiste E.R. Janardhan have jointly organised the event. The last date for registration is January 31. Log on to thewww.icmda.co.infor registration or call 95154 17732 for details.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/global-dance-and-music-contest/article33689255.ece
29 January 2021||January 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Musical ode to the saint-poet||Mudhra’s Paalam TV has organised a series of lecture demonstrations and music concerts at 7 p.m. and 8 p.m., respectively, as part of the ‘Anubhav festival - experiencing the arts,’ until February 5. The online event celebrating the works of Saint Tyagaraja begins today. The week-long series can be watched on www.paalamtv.com and Mudhra’s Facebook and YouTube channel. Today’s programmes will be by Dr. Radha Bhaskar and Sriranjani Santhanagopalan. The schedule for the other days are: Tomorrow: ‘Sahithya Anubhavam’ by Malladi Suri Babu followed by Sikkil Gurucharan’s concert. January 31: Sriram Parasuram presents ‘Ragas conceived by Tyagaraja’ and Bharat Sundar’s concert. Senkottai Hariharasubramaiam presents Utsava Sampradaya and Divya nama keertanas on February 1, 7 p.m. The events will draw to a close with the nagaswaram recital of Adyar Balasubramaniam and Chithoor Devaraju (7 p.m.) followed by Dr. Radha Bhaskar’s lecdem on Pancharatnam at 8 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/musical-ode-to-the-saint-poet/article33689262.ece
29 January 2021||January 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Book on Ucchishta Ganapati of Tiruvarur||“Ucchiṣhṭa gaṇapatim bhaja re unnata padavim vraja re,” said composer Muthuswami Dikshitar in his kriti addressed to the deity Ucchishta Gaṇapati, a unique form of Gaṇapati. This deity is at the entrance to the shrine of Sri Kamalamba at Sri Tyagesa temple in Tiruvarur. Another unique form of Ganapati, a replica of the kundalini and mulaadhaara, is depicted in a dancing pose on a lotus encircled by a serpent, and is found on the way to the sanctum of Sri Tyagesa. Scholar Dr. V. Raghavan, who was born in Tiruvarur, took great interest in the study of the different forms of Gaṇapati. He located a rare manuscript, the ‘Ucchiṣhṭa Gaṇapati Stava,’ preserved in the University Collections in Thiruvananthapuram. He has edited this manuscript titled, ‘Ucchiṣhṭa Gaṇapati Sahasranāma Stava,’ giving his suggestions and addings meanings for the difficult namas in the footnotes. The Dr. V. Raghavan Centre For Performing Arts (Regd.) has published this hymn book for devotees, researchers and scholars. A Tamil transliteration of the Sanskrit hymn has been added for wider readership. For more details, call 9841430344.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/book-on-ucchishta-ganapati-of-tiruvarur/article33689264.ece
29 January 2021||New Delhi,||AAP changes party constitution, Kejriwal to continue as chief||The Aam Aadmi Party on Thursday amended the party’s constitution to remove a clause, which will allow Arvind Kejriwal to continue as the national convener of the party, multiple party leaders have told The Hindu . This is one of the 14 amendments made to the party’s constitution at the National Council meeting on Thursday. Before the amendment, as per the party constitution, no member was allowed to hold the same post as an office-bearer for more than two consecutive terms of three years each. “It has been removed. A total of 14 amendments have been made,” a party leader said. The party did not officially comment on the amendment or share the new constitution. Since the formation of the AAP in 2012 and its registration as a party in 2013, Mr. Kejriwal has been at the helm. In December 2018, the party’s national council had decided to extend its term by a year that gave Mr. Kejriwal a year more than the maximum tenure allowed by the constitution. At that time, his second tenure as national convener was about to end on April 26, 2019. ‘Practical difficulties’ Earlier in the day, in a video statement, senior party leader Manish Sisodia said that multiple changes to party’s constitution had been made at the national council meeting on Thursday to remove “practical difficulties” in going forward. Mentioning some of the amendments, Mr. Sisodia said, “Earlier, one clause of our constitution was that two people from the same family could not fight the election. This rule will be only valid for the existing members of AAP. But we are witnessing that many new leaders are joining our party two of whose family members have fought elections. In such cases, the party has decided to allow such people to join, fight elections and work for AAP.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/aap-changes-party-constitution-kejriwal-to-continue-as-chief/article33689609.ece
29 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Resident group up in arms against farmers||A group of people claiming to be residents of nearby villages staged a demonstration against the protesting farmers at the Singhu border on Thursday. They demanded that the inter-State highway be cleared.  ‘Hassles in commuting’ The group alleged that they faced several hassles in commuting due to the two-month-long protest. They said the farmers had disrespected the Tricolour on Republic Day. The tractor parade by farmers on January 26 had culminated in violence with clashes erupting at several locations in the national capital. Mahesh Chauhan, a resident of Palla village, which is a few kilometres away from the Singhu border, said: “The highway has been blocked for over two months now. It has caused immense inconvenience to all, including daily wagers, who need to travel for work among others. We want the road cleared as soon as possible. Today we have come in a small group but soon we will be assembling here in much larger numbers.” Won’t tolerate Raj Singh Saini, a resident of a village in Narela, said: “We cannot tolerate this anymore. We want the road near the Singhu border cleared. Today [ on Thursday], Pradhans of 40 villages along with others have come here. But we are ready to return with lakhs of people to ensure that the protesting farmers leave the borders soon.” Earlier in the day, farmers had prevented several media personnel from entering the protest site.  We cannot tolerate this anymore. Today [Thursday], Pradhans of 40 villages along with others have come here. But we are ready to return with lakhs of people to ensure that the farmers leave the border soon Raj Singh Saini Resident of village in Narela||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/resident-group-up-in-arms-against-farmers/article33689611.ece
29 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Policemen seek numbers as stirs ‘more violent now’||Following the violence that erupted in the Capital on Republic day, Delhi Police officers have become a worried lot. Many officials feel that it has become a public perception that a protest is only successful when the police is beaten up. “We are not left with an ounce of self-respect” — is a common feeling among some policemen after January 26. A Sub-Inspector (SI), who was posted at ITO during the violence, said looking at the video of policemen jumping from the wall at Red Fort, he was reminded of the Jallianwala Bagh incident. “This was probably how and why people jumped into the well. Thankfully, here police officials didn’t die,” he said. The officer said the nature of protests haschanged over the past couple of years. “Unline before when protesters could be controlled using police vehicles as barricades. The protests and protesters have become more violent,” he said, adding that there is a huge need for better equipment and allowances. A Head Constable, who was posted at the Red Fort, said if the force had equipment like spike barriers then tractors wouldn’t have been able to move. “Better riot gear is an absolute must. All we have is a lathi and poor-quality helmets,” he said. Many seek allowance Some officials said there is a need for Risk and Hardship Allowance for personnel. “Senior officers and Home Minister (HM) meeting the injured policemen is good but do something for us. Risk and Hardship allowance is given to paramilitary forces then why not us? Riot training should also be introduced. The old techniques don’t work anymore,” said another SI. “Often, the HM has appreciated us, saying we work with limited resources. Why not increase the number? In a force of 90,000, 30,000 each were deployed for Republic Day and protest sites and others were managing over 200 police stations,” he said. A DCP said: “It’s an itch to reclaim the lost pride”. He said the force was aware that things will not go as planned but as a “disciplined and obedient force”, they went ahead by putting up barricades. When the violence began, he said, the force gathered in “despair and resignation”. “Despair because what they had anticipated was now being witnessed and resignation because of being briefed, trained and drilled over and over into ‘no use of force’.” The officer recalled making calls to check on colleagues and getting asked questions like, “Why were these people allowed to take out a march when no one trusted their intent, words and body language? Why did we not ensure that in case of a battle, it is fought only at Singhu border?” A Constable said officials were told to use minimum or no force. “That is why we flee and next time, this is what we will do, we will run away at the possible moment,” he said, adding: We are beaten up everyone — be it lawyers, students, anti-CAA protestors or anyone,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/policemen-seek-numbers-as-stirs-more-violent-now/article33689617.ece
29 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Crime Branch to probe cases against protesters||The Delhi Police Crime Branch will investigate the cases of violence at the Red Fort, ITO and seven other places during the farmers’ tractor parade on Republic Day, an officer said on Thursday. He said the police have registered 33 FIRs in connection with the violence that left 394 police personnel injured and one protester dead on January 26. Lookout notices issued Lookout notices have been issued against 44 persons, the officer added. The Delhi Police said there was a “pre-conceived and well-coordinated” plan to break the agreement arrived at with farmer leaders to bring international embarrassment for the government on Republic Day. A special cell will also investigate the case registered under UAPA and sedition charges. “The role and conduct of organisations and individuals based in India as well as those out of the country is being probed. An investigation is under way,” said the officer. Many protesters reached the Red Fort with tractors and entered the premises, the police said. Some even hoisted religious flags on its domes and the flagstaff at the ramparts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/crime-branch-to-probe-cases-against-protesters/article33689613.ece
29 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Calm at Singhu border after R-Day storm||Two days after the tractor parade culminated into violence, the Singhu border on Thursday bore a relatively empty look with many of the vehicles missing in pockets along the highway. Prakat Singh, a farmer from Amritsar, who has been at the protest site for over a month now, said: “The few empty spaces does not mean that people have left. The number of people who are currently present here at the border is the same as what it was before. The people who had come specifically for the tractor parade have left. That is the reason why the space looks a bit empty. The new tractors which are coming in are getting parked either on the other end of protest site or on the other side of the road.” ‘Won’t leave site’ Some of the farmers also reasoned that many of their group members had to return to their respective villages due to personal issues. Gurjeet Singh, a farmer from Patiala, said: “When we came to the border, there were 20 of us but now, only five of us have remained. But we are determined to continue staying at the border till the laws are repealed.” Several of the langar facilities also bore a deserted look even though the volunteers maintained that the footfall had dipped compared to the last week but not to what it was initially. A volunteer at one of the langars, said: “...we are continuing with the sewa as usual.” Even facilities like the Kisaan Mall, which had come up over the course of the two-month-long protest, was closed. Volunteers present at the Khalsa Aid kiosk, however, said it had been shut “for a couple of days due to the unrest” but would reopen soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/calm-at-singhu-border-after-r-day-storm/article33689616.ece
29 January 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi records ‘very poor’ air quality||The air quality of Delhi, Gurugram, and Noida was in ‘very poor’ category on Thursday, stated Central Pollution Control Board data. “The AQI is likely to marginally improve and stay in the lower end of ‘very poor’ category for the next two days. AQI is forecast to marginally deteriorate towards the middle-end of the ‘very poor’ category on January 31,” said a statement by government-run monitoring agency SAFAR (System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research. The AQI of Delhi was 357 on Thursday, up from 318 on Wednesday, as per the CPCB’s 4 p.m. bulletin. The values for Gurugram and Noida was 338.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/delhi-records-very-poor-air-quality/article33689607.ece
29 January 2021||New Delhi,||199 new virus cases; 8,244 vaccinated in Delhi||With the number of vaccination sites being increased, 8,244 healthcare workers took COVID-19 vaccine in Delhi on Thursday, which is the highest single-day count till now, the Delhi government spokesperson said. Also, there were 15 Adverse Events Following Immunisation (AEFI) on Thursday. The number of people vaccinated on Thursday was 77.7% of the daily target of 10,600. The number of vaccination sites were increased to 106 on Thursday from 81 earlier. With a target of 100 healthcare workers each at each site, the total target has increased to 10,600 from 8,100.   Delhi, meanwhile, reported 199 new COVID-19 cases in the last 24 hours, taking the total number of cases to 6,34,524, according to a health bulletin released by the government on Thursday. With nine more deaths, the total number of fatalities here now stands at 10,829.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/199-new-virus-cases-8244-vaccinated-in-delhi/article33689608.ece
29 January 2021||New Delhi,||Riots: Natasha Narwal’s bail plea rejected||A Delhi court on Thursday rejected the bail plea of JNU student and Pinjra Tod member Natasha Narwal, booked under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act in a north-east Delhi riots case. Rejecting the plea that there was no video showing Ms. Narwal’s presence at Jafrabad metro station, Additional Sessions Judge Amitabh Rawat said, “At this stage of bail, I am of the opinion that in a case of conspiracy of such a largescale, not having a video is not so vital as generally conspiracy, by its very nature, is hatched in secrecy and not having videos of such a conspiracy is obviously rather than doubtful.” Ms. Narwal was arrested on May 23 last year, along with fellow JNU student Devangana Kalitha in relation with an FIR registered on February 24, 2020, over the sit-in protest at Jafrabad metro station against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act. Separate FIR The Crime Branch has lodged a separate FIR against both Ms. Narwal and Ms. Kalita in connection with the Delhi riots with charges of IPC Sections 147 (rioting), 353 (using criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), 307 (attempt to murder), 302 (murder) among others. The FIR also named relevant sections of the Arms Act and the Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/court-rejects-bail-petition-of-natasha-narwal-in-riots-case/article33689626.ece
29 January 2021||January 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Security beefed up at all three city borders||The police on Thursday moved nearly 30 farmers from DDA ground in Burari to Singhu border. They also beefed up security at Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur borders by deploying more policemen. Additional forces A senior police officer said after the violence, additional forces have been moved to protest site as precautionary measures. “To prevent any friction between locals and protesters, we have placed more barricades at borders. A small group of locals at Singhu staged protest and demand to open the road. Police intervened and the situation was pacified,” said the officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/security-beefed-up-at-all-three-city-borders/article33689612.ece
29 January 2021||New Delhi,||Shah, Baijal visit injured policemen||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Thursday visited two hospitals to enquire about the health of policemen who were injured in the R-Day violence. Mr. Shah visited the Shushrut Trauma Centre and the Teerath Ram Hospital — to enquire about the health of the injured police personnel. L-G Anil Baijal also met the injured policemen and instructed the medical officers concerned to provide the best treatment to them. The L-G also said he prayed for their speedy recovery in addition to issuing an appeal urging everyone to exercise restraint in the interest of peace and harmony.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/shah-baijal-visit-injured-policemen/article33689614.ece
