30 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Economic Survey predicts 11% growth next fiscal||India’s economy is firmly in the middle of a V-shaped recovery and will bounce back to record 11% growth in 2021-22 after an estimated 7.7% contraction this year, as per a “conservative” estimate in the Economic Survey for 2020-21, which termed this a “lockdown dividend” from the country’s stringent response to the COVID-19 pandemic. Making a strong pitch for the government to loosen its purse strings to spur the economy with a “counter-cyclical fiscal push” till the country returns to its pre-COVID-19 growth path, the Survey, tabled in Parliament on Friday, defended the conservative fiscal stimulus during the initial phase of the pandemic, stating that pushing down on the accelerator while the brakes are clamped “only wastes fuel”. Comparing the Indian economy’s resurgence from the collapse in the first two quarters of the year to the country’s recent cricketing fortunes, which recovered swiftly from the lows of being bowled out for 36 in the Adelaide Test to register a series win against Australia, Chief Economic Adviser Krishnamurthy Subramanian indicated that it was time to switch fiscal gears to a more aggressive approach. ‘Timing matters’ “Like in cricket, even in the economy, timing matters. When the ball is swinging around a lot, there’s a lot of uncertainty, you need to play carefully and focus on survival and the essential items… you play like (Cheteshwar) Pujara. Once the swing is gone, you bat like (Rishabh) Pant, which is what the Indian economy and policy makers are now focused on,” he said. “Wait for one day, I am sure you will see both Pujara and Pant in action,” he said at a conference after the Survey was tabled, indicating that the Union Budget for 2021-22 could be cautiously expansionary. “The V-shaped economic recovery while avoiding a second wave of infections make India a sui generis case in this unique, synchronised global recession,” the Survey said. It added that a rapid vaccination roll-out this year could boost recovery in the services sectors as well as stir up private consumption and investment. While absolute growth numbers may be remarkable in 2021-22 due to the low base effect, returning to pre-pandemic growth and output levels would take longer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/economic-survey-predicts-11-growth-next-fiscal/article33700715.ece
30 January 2021||MANGALURU,||City corporation decides to conduct fresh survey of all its property||Mangaluru City Corporation will conduct a fresh survey of its property in its all 60 wards to ensure that all were brought under the purview of property tax to augment the revenue collection. It will conduct the door-to-door survey using its multi-purpose workers who will use a mobile application to record data and images of property. The survey is GIS linked. According to Commissioner of the corporation Akshy Sridhar, the trial run of the survey is under progress in Kodialbail ward (No 30) since a month. The corporation will take up the actual survey on February 1 and it might take a minimum of 45 days to complete it, covering all wards. This time, the surveyors will record the type of floors based on the construction material used (such as granite, tiles and red oxide) as the property tax differed for the type of floors. Recording the type of floors is also to ensure that the property tax payers should not mislead the civic body while paying tax under the self-assessment scheme. After the commissioner informed about the survey during the meeting of the council on Friday, Leader of the Opposition in the council Abdul Ravoof suggested that the civic body hire the services of professionals to conduct the survey. As the multi-purpose workers have enough work to do, the corporation should get the survey done by trained personnel, he said and added that the multi-purpose workers are now overloaded with other works mainly related to the health sector. Responding to it, the commissioner said that as the multi-purpose workers are familiar with the wards allocated to them, they can conduct the survey efficiently. In case a need arises, the corporation can hire the services of others to conduct the survey, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/city-corporation-decides-to-conduct-fresh-survey-of-all-its-property/article33701199.ece
30 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||SEC orders transfer of Principal Secretary Praveen Prakash||Andhra Pradesh State Election Commissioner (SEC) N. Ramesh Kumar invoked his plenary powers to transfer Principal Secretary (General Administration-Poll) Praveen Prakash, holding him responsible for the inaction against some officers charged with dereliction of duty in the conduct of local body elections. The SEC also barred Mr. Prakash from interacting with Collectors, Superintendents of Police and any other officer either directly or indirectly dealing with matters relating to the elections. In a letter to Chief Secretary Aditya Nath Das on Thursday, Mr. Ramesh Kumar mentioned that the General Administration (Poll) Department (headed by Mr. Prakash) which had to implement his orders chose not to do so and deliberately had not implemented them in spite of specific directions from the commission. The said officers were allowed to continue to discharge their functions at a critical stage when they should have been kept away, which was the commission’s intention. “This is because of the failure as well as the intransigent attitude of GAD headed by Mr. Prakash, who has also reportedly scuttled the video conference convened on January 23 to review the poll preparedness, and instructed the Collectors and Superintendents of Police as well as other officers not to participate in the commission meetings. As a consequence, the commission was forced to reschedule the first phase of gram panchayat elections.” “Having thus reached the conclusion that Mr. Prakash has acted in a prejudicial manner to scuttle the conduct of free and fair elections which were upheld by a Division Bench of the High Court and subsequently by the Supreme Court, he is to be transferred,” the letter said. Writes to Governor Mr. Ramesh Kumar has written to Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan seeking action against Adviser to the government Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy and two Ministers for “attacking” the office of the State Election Commission, a constitutional body. Mr. Ramesh Kumar, in a strongly worded letter, said he had no alternative except to approach the Supreme Court to seek remedy. He said Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy had “attacked” the office on a party platform.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ap-sec-orders-transfer-of-official/article33700628.ece
30 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Amid clashes, fresh support pours in for farmers||In a renewed push to the farmers agitation against the three contentious farm laws after the unions appeared to be on the back foot following the Republic Day violence and police action, support poured in from parts of Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh on Friday. Farmers outfits, “panchayats”, and “khaps” across the three States assured support to the movement, even as clashes broke out between “locals” and the farmers at the Singhu border during the day, with incidents of stone-pelting. The police had to use tear gas and lathicharge to bring the situation under control. Attempts by the Uttar Pradesh administration to vacate the sit-in at Ghazipur late on Thursday, sparked an emotional outburst from Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait, who blamed the BJP for vitiating the atmosphere, and saw a dramatic surge in the number of farmers at the Delhi-U.P. border. As Mr. Tikait’s outburst went viral, thousands headed to the site from western Uttar Pradesh and Haryana through the night and the early hours of Friday. Several political leaders, including Rashtriya Lok Dal vice-president Jayant Chaudhary, Delhi Deputy CM Manish Sisodia, Swaraj Abhiyan’s Yogendra Yadav and Haryana Rajya Sabha MP Deepender Hooda also reached the Ghazipur protest site in solidarity with Mr. Tikait.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/amid-clashes-support-pours-in-for-farmers/article33700707.ece
30 January 2021||B. Tilak Chandar,||Don’t hand over first prize to bull tamer: High Court||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Friday granted an interim injunction, restraining the authorities concerned from awarding the first prize to the best bull tamer at Alanganallur jallikattu held on January 16 after a Revenue Divisional Officer inquiry confirmed impersonation. The first prize was a car sponsored by the Chief Minister. Justice G.R. Swaminathan granted interim injunction on the petition filed by R. Karuppanan of Melur, the runner-up at the rural sporting event. In his petition, he said that Kannan, declared winner at the event, had not even registered his name for participation in the jallikattu. The jersey which he wore at the event belonged to one Harikrishnan who participated in the first set of the event. Mr. Harikrishnan left the event following an injury and after that it was Kannan who wore the jersey and participated in the remaining sets of the event. He did so without undergoing a mandatory test for COVID-19, the petitioner said. He complained that this could not have happened without political backing and an inquiry was conducted into the incident. A case of impersonation was ascertained by a Revenue Divisional Officer and even now plans had been made to give the first prize to Kannan, he said. The case was adjourned till February 5.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/dont-hand-over-first-prize-to-bull-tamer-high-court/article33701182.ece
30 January 2021||New Delhi,||Jokes need no defence, stand-up comedian tells SC||Stand-up comedian Kunal Kamra, facing contempt for scandalising the Supreme Court with his tweets, said the phenomenon of “taking offence” to comedy or satire has been elevated to the status of a much-loved indoor sport in a growing culture of intolerance. “The suggestion that my tweets could shake the foundations of the most powerful court in the world is an over-estimation of my abilities... Just as the Supreme Court values the faith public places in it, it should also trust the public not to form its opinions of the court on the basis of a few jokes on Twitter... My tweets were not published with the intention of diminishing the faith of the people in the highest court,” Mr. Kamra said in a six-page reply to the suo motu contempt against him. Taking offence was now seen as a “fundamental right”, he said.“Comedians like Munawar Faruqui are jailed for jokes they did not make. School students are interrogated for sedition,” he told the Supreme Court. A Bench, led by Justice Ashok Bhushan, on Friday adjourned the hearing by two weeks. The lawyer for the person who filed the contempt complaint against Mr. Kamra sought time to file his response. “Hope the court will demonstrate that free speech is a cardinal constitutional value. If the powerful are unable to tolerate rebuke and criticism, we will be reduced to a country of incarcerated artists and flourishing lapdogs,” Mr. Kamra said. Jokes needed no defence, he wrote. Jokes were based on a comedian’s perception. His job was to share his perception with his audience and make them laugh. “Most people do not react to jokes that do not make them laugh. They ignore them like our political leaders ignore their critics. That is where the life of a joke must end,” he stated. “The more attention you paid to a joke, the more credible it became. The public faith in the judiciary is founded on the institution’s own actions, and not on any criticism or commentary about it,” he stated. Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, appearing for artist Rachita Taneja, who is also facing contempt for her tweets, agreed with Mr. Kamra that the Supreme Court rested on strong foundations. ‘Soul of comedy’ The comedian said he did not buy the argument that judges would be unable to perform their functions as they were the subject of comedy. Irreverence and hyperbole are tools for the comedic enterprise. Language and style are not meant to insult but to draw attention. “Brevity is the soul of comedy, though it may not be a familiar concept for the legal community.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/jokes-need-no-defence-stand-up-comedian-tells-sc/article33700887.ece
30 January 2021||New Delhi,||‘Govt. to abide by SC order on farm laws’||The Union Government respected the Supreme Court and would abide by its decision to stay the implementation of the three farm laws, President Ram Nath Kovind told a joint sitting of Parliament on Friday, even as he strongly defended the new laws and asserted that 10 crore small farmers have benefited from them. Referring to the violence during the tractor parade and the storming of the Red Fort, Mr. Kovind said it was “unfortunate” that the national flag was disrespected on the occasion of Republic Day. “My government has always respected freedom of expression and holding of peaceful agitations in a democratic set up. However, the recent acts of dishonouring the National Flag and showing disrespect to the auspicious occasion of the Republic Day are unfortunate,” Mr Kovind said. “While the Constitution gives us the right to freedom of expression, it is also expected that we abide by the laws and rules with equal sincerity.” He said the laws were brought in after extensive consultations, and different political parties, at different points of time, had thought of effecting these changes. He said these laws do not take away any rights and facilities that are available under the existing system; rather the laws have “provided new facilities to the farmers and has empowered them". Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his cabinet colleagues were seen thumping their desks when the President referred to the benefits of the farm laws.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-to-abide-by-sc-order-on-farm-laws/article33700713.ece
30 January 2021||CHENNAI,||Chennai start-ups foray into app-based water supply||GoWatr and Tankme, start-ups based in Chennai, are facilitating online booking of water tankers in and around the city. While GoWatr has just completed one year, Tankme is a new entrant. “The idea behind Tankme was very simple – to marry technology with Chennai’s biggest challenge. We decided to ‘Uber-ise’ this process, so that customers can easily book their tankers through our app. While the larger focus is on expanding our services, our immediate focus is to ensure tanker service across the city,” said Arun Ander, CEO and founder of Tankme. Kaushik Mohan and Fahad Javeed, Co-founders of Tankme, said an efficient water booking system will help in drastic reduction in operator cost and in turn reduce the cost. In traditional water delivery systems, 70% of the price a customer pays goes to meet the transportation cost alone, they said. The water delivery space has been crowded with private and government participation. Monitoring water levels GoWatr acts as an aggregator for water tanker supply to consumers and installs IoT and flow meter devices that helps monitor the storage level of water remotely. Their clientele includes apartments, malls, IT parks, educational institutions, restaurants and construction industry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/chennai-start-ups-foray-into-app-based-water-supply/article33700812.ece
30 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Minimum basic pay fixed at Rs. 23,000||The 11th Kerala Pay Revision Commission headed by K. Mohandas has fixed the minimum basic salary of State government employees and teachers at Rs. 23,000 and the maximum at Rs. 1,66,800. The other recommendations include 4% to 10% of the basic pay as House Rent Allowance (HRA), minimum pension and family pension of Rs. 11,500, and an additional allowance of Rs. 1,000 for pensioners above 80 years. Extending retirement age by one year to enable finance resource management, a minimum increment of Rs. 700 and maximum increment of Rs. 3,400, parent care leave of maximum one year with 40% salary, child care leave of maximum one year with 40% salary, enhancing paternity leave to 15 days and including adoption for paternity leave have also been mooted. In the report submitted to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan here on Friday, the commission said the revised pay and other benefits would have retrospective effect from July 1, 2019. In view of the financial crisis, the commission comprising M.K. Sukumaran Nair, Ashok Mamen Cherian, both members, and secretary G. Ashok Kumar recommended only a minimal increase in salary and allowances. The exchequer will need Rs. 4,810 crore annually to meet the hike in salary and pension. The 28% Dearness Allowance (DA) till July 1, 2019 will be merged with the basic salary and the fitment benefit will be 10%. No service weightage has been recommended. The employees will have no other option but to switch over to the new pay scales from July 1, 2019, and the changeover will be through Spark. The City Compensatory Allowance (CCA) has been shelved in view of the hike in HRA. Those in the Corporation limits will get 10% of the basic salary as HRA, 6% to 8% in municipalities and 4% in panchayats. The minimum and maximum HRA recommended is Rs. 1,200 and Rs. 10,000 respectively. The Death-cum-Retirement Gratuity (DCRG) has been enhanced to Rs. 17 lakh and pension will be fixed on the last drawn salary. The basic pension will be multiplied by 1.38 to revise the pension. The minimum salary of part-time contingent employees has been hiked to Rs. 11,500 and a maximum of Rs. 22,970, while their minimum pension will be Rs. 5,750 and maximum Rs. 11,485. The next pay revision has been suggested for 2026.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/minimum-basic-pay-fixed-at-rs-23000/article33701088.ece
30 January 2021||GUNTUR,||Governor urged to take action against Sajjala, two Ministers||State Election Commissioner N. Ramesh Kumar has written to Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan seeking action against Adviser to the government Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy and two Ministers for “attacking” the office of the State Election Commission, a constitutional body. Mr. Ramesh Kumar, in a strongly worded letter, said he had no alternative except to approach the Supreme Court to seek remedy. ‘Unfortunate’ He said that Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy had “attacked” the office on a party platform. It was unfortunate that despite being an adviser, holding the rank of a Cabinet Minister, he chose to attack the SEC from a party platform. Mr. Ramesh Kumar also urged the Governor to advise the Cabinet Ministers, Peddireddi Ramachandra Reddy and Botcha Satyanarayana, to refrain from making “personal, derogatory remarks” against him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/governor-urged-to-take-action-against-sajjala/article33700702.ece
30 January 2021||January 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Jokes need no defence, comedian tells SC||Stand-up comedian Kunal Kamra, facing contempt for scandalising the Supreme Court with his tweets, said the phenomenon of “taking offence” to comedy or satire has been elevated to the status of a much-loved indoor sport in a growing culture of intolerance. “The suggestion that my tweets could shake the foundations of the most powerful court in the world is an over-estimation of my abilities... Just as the Supreme Court values the faith public places in it, it should also trust the public not to form its opinions of the court on the basis of a few jokes on Twitter... My tweets were not published with the intention of diminishing the faith of the people in the highest court,” Mr. Kamra said in a six-page reply to the suo motu contempt against him. Taking offence was now seen as a “fundamental right”, he said. “Comedians like Munawar Faruqui are jailed for jokes they did not make. School students are interrogated for sedition,” he told the Supreme Court. Hearing adjourned A Bench, led by Justice Ashok Bhushan, on Friday adjourned the hearing by two weeks. The lawyer for the person who filed the contempt complaint against Mr. Kamra sought time to file his response. “Hope the court will demonstrate that free speech is a cardinal constitutional value. If the powerful are unable to tolerate rebuke and criticism, we will be reduced to a country of incarcerated artists and flourishing lapdogs,” Mr. Kamra said. Jokes needed no defence, he wrote. Jokes were based on a comedian’s perception. His job was to share his perception with his audience and make them laugh. “Most people do not react to jokes that do not make them laugh. They ignore them like our political leaders ignore their critics. That is where the life of a joke must end,” he stated. “The more attention you paid to a joke, the more credible it became.” “The public faith in the judiciary is founded on the institution’s own actions, and not on any criticism or commentary about it,” he stated. Rohatgi’s submission Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, appearing for artist Rachita Taneja, who is also facing contempt for her tweets, agreed with Mr. Kamra that the Supreme Court rested on strong foundations, and criticism need not be countered with contempt action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/jokes-need-no-defence-stand-up-comedian-tells-sc/article33700711.ece
30 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Class 9, 11 students back in school from Feb. 5||Class 9 and 11 students in the Capital will return to school from February 5 under strict COVID-19 protocols, Education Minister Manish Sisodia said on Friday. Degree colleges and diploma institutes (polytechnics and Industrial Training Institutes) will also open for project work and practical exams. The Minister said parents had demanded resumption of school for Class 9 and 11 students after the Delhi government gave permission for students, who are to sit for the CBSE examination, to start attending school from January 18. ‘80% attendance’ “Initially, parents were unsure about sending their children to school due to the pandemic. Schools saw poor attendance in the initial days. But now, parents have seen the preparedness of schools and are convinced of their children’s safety. About 80% attendance is being recorded in schools,” Mr. Sisodia said.  The Directorate of Education also issued exam instructions for Class 9 and 11. Midterm exams For Class 11, practicals, projects and internal assessments will be conducted at the school level from March 1. “Midterm exams may be conducted from March 20 to April 15, tentatively from 2.30 p.m. to 5.30 p.m. in all schools. Question papers for annual exams will be set covering all the reduced syllabus, which is uploaded on the DOE’s website,” the department stated. For Class 9, schools may conduct the first and second periodic assessment in the last week of February and third week of March respectively while maintaining COVID norms. “Midterm exams may be conducted from April 1 to April 15, tentatively from 2.30 p.m. to 5.30 p.m. in all schools. Projects and assignments given to students as holiday homework, or home assignments during the winter vacation will be considered Subject Enrichment Activities,” it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/class-9-11-students-back-in-school-from-feb-5/article33700892.ece
30 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||Primary schools in State to reopen on Feb. 1||Education Minister Adimulapu Suresh on Friday said schools in the State would be reopened for primary sections (Classes 1 to 5) from February 1 (Monday). In a statement, Mr. Suresh said one classroom would not have more than 20 students. Schools that did not have sufficient number of classrooms to accommodate all the students would have to conduct classes on alternate days. SCERT calendar He said all government, aided and unaided private schools would function full day from February 1, as per the academic calendar prepared by the State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT) (9 a.m. to 3.45 p.m.) for primary schools. Students attending physical classes must have written consent of parents/guardian, wearing of masks would be mandatory for students and teaching and non-teaching staff, frequent hand washing and all other related precaution to contain COVID-19 as per the guidelines had been communicated to the authorities concerned, the Minister said. He said the academic calendar for classes I to VI would be issued by the Director, SCERT. Adherence to protocol The Department of School Education took a final stand on the issue after Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, in his last review meeting with the department officials, directed them to explore possibilities of reopening schools in a full-fledged way, including the primary section (classes 1 to 5) from February in view of the declining cases of COVID-19. He said students, who had been away from schools, had to be brought back to the school fold but amidst strict adherence to the health guidelines to ensure their safe learning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/primary-schools-to-reopen-in-state-from-february-1/article33701277.ece
30 January 2021||New Delhi,||Govt. tightens oversight on funds received by NGOs||The Union Home Ministry has laid down a charter for banks which says that “donations received in Indian rupees” by non-governmental organisations (NGOs) and associations from “any foreign source even if that source is located in India at the time of such donation” should be treated as “foreign contribution”. As per the existing rules, all banks have to report to the Central government within 48 hours the “receipt or utilisation of any foreign contribution” by any NGO, association or person whether or not they are registered or granted prior permission under the FCRA. Last September, the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act, 2010, was amended by Parliament and a new provision that makes it mandatory for all NGOs to receive foreign funds in a designated bank account at the State Bank of India’s (SBI) New Delhi branch was inserted. FCRA regulates foreign donations and ensures that such contributions do not adversely affect the internal security of the country. All NGOs seeking foreign donations have to open a designated FCRA account at the SBI branch by March 31. The NGOs can retain their existing FCRA account in any other bank but it will have to be mandatorily linked to the SBI branch in New Delhi. Penal provisions The Ministry has laid out a series of guidelines and charter to make the NGOs and the banks comply with the new provisions. The charter for the banks said, “It may be noted that foreign contribution has to be received only through banking channels and it has to be accounted for in the manner prescribed. Any violation by the NGO or by the bank may invite penal provisions of the FCRA, 2010.” It added that “donations given in Indian rupees (INR) by any foreigner/foreign source including foreigners of Indian origin like OCI or PIO cardholders” should also be treated as foreign contribution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-tightens-oversight-on-funds-received-by-ngos/article33700888.ece
30 January 2021||Hyderabad,||Six of a family killed in auto-lorry smash||Six members of a family, including three women, were killed after their seven-seater autorickshaw collided head-on with a lorry at Marrimitta village of Mahabubabad district, 200 km from the State capital on Friday morning. The victims were identified as Jatoth Kalyani (48), her children Jatoth Pradeep (25) and Jatoth Prameela (23). The other three were Jatoth Prasad (42), his daughter Jatoth Divya (19) and Jatoth Ramu (33), all residents of Errakunta Tanda. They were going to Narsampet town in Warangal (Rural) district for marriage shopping of Prameela. Gudur Circle Inspector Raja Reddy said. Prameela’s wedding was fixed a couple of days ago. The accident took place around 10.30 a.m. when the auto driver lost control and collided with the lorry coming in the opposite direction, he said. The impact of the accident was such that the three-wheeler got mangled completely and occupants suffered multiple injuries and died on the spot. The bodies were shifted to Government Hospital, Mahabubabad for autopsy. Meanwhile, Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has expressed his condolences to victims’ families.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/six-of-a-family-killed-in-autorickshaw-lorry-smash/article33701036.ece
30 January 2021||lucknow,||HC orders protection for same-sex couple in U.P.||Noting that it was duty-bound to monitor the rights of citizens under threat on account of their sexual orientation, the Allahabad High Court has ordered police protection for a same-sex woman couple in Uttar Pradesh’s Saharanpur. The two women, aged 23 and 22, have been in a live-in relationship for a couple of years, the court noted. They are, however, facing resistance from their family members and had approached the High Court seeking directions to their families to not interfere in their relationship.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hc-orders-protection-for-same-sex-couple-in-up/article33700889.ece
30 January 2021||MANGALURU,||Scientist from NEERI visits Pachchanady landfill site||Lakshmikanthan P., a scientist from the Water Technology and Management Division, National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (NEERI), Nagpur, visited the landfill site of the Mangaluru City Corporation at Pachchanady on Friday to suggest to the corporation remedial measures for the landfill site disaster in 2019. High Court order Earlier, the High Court of Karnataka in its order on November 23, 2020 directed the corporation to appoint NEERI to suggest remedial measures and to ensure that such a tragedy/incident is never repeated. Following the High Court order, the city corporation wrote to NEERI on November 29, 2020 requesting it to suggest remedial measures and the future course of action to be taken. The scientist who visited the spot interacted with the corporation officials, including Madhu S Manohar, Environment Engineer in the corporation. With heavy rain in July and August 2019, the landfill waste staked at Pachchanady slipped from the landfill site and fell over the adjoining private property damaging houses and horticultural crops in August. Meanwhile, the court last week directed the corporation commissioner to release ad hoc compensation to eligible persons who lost property and land due to slipping of municipal solid waste.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/scientist-from-neeri-visits-pachchanady-landfill-site/article33701196.ece
30 January 2021||January 30 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Health infra must be agile’||The COVID-19 pandemic has showcased how a healthcare crisis can transform into an economic and social crisis, the Economic Survey noted. It said the healthcare policy must not become beholden to “saliency bias”, where policy overweighs a recent phenomenon. “To enable India to respond to pandemics, the health infrastructure must be agile,” it said.page 10||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/health-infra-must-be-agile/article33700701.ece
30 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Blast in Delhi: India reaches out to Israel||India on Friday assured Israel of safety of its missions and diplomats after a low intensity device exploded near the country's Embassy on the high-security APJ Abdul Kalam Road. A police officer on the spot said the explosive was planted in a used soft drink can and wrapped in polythene and ruled out any terror angle as of now. “Spoke just now to Israeli FM Gabi Ashkenazi about the explosion outside the Israeli Embassy. We take this very seriously. Assured him of the fullest protection for the Embassy and Israeli diplomats. Matter is under investigation and no effort will be spared to find the culprits,” Mr. Jaishankar said in a message. An informed source said Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla spoke to his Israeli counterpart, Alon Ushpitz, and Secretary in charge of Consular Affairs Sanjay Bhattacharyya spoke to Israeli Ambassador in India Ron Malka. Late in the evening, the police recovered a letter from the spot addressed to the Israeli Embassy. The contents of the letter were not disclosed to the media. Investigating teams have also recovered ball bearings from the spot.  ‘Bid to create sensation’ A team of Forensic Science Laboratory has collected evidence and an officer claimed that they had got some leads in the incident. Delhi police Additional PRO Anil Mittal said initial impressions suggested that it could be a mischievous attempt to create a sensation. “A very low-intensity improvised device went off at 5.05 p.m. No injury to any person was reported, nor was there any damage to property except the glass panes of three vehicles parked nearby,” Mr. Mittal said. Officials said they were scanning footage of CCTV cameras installed nearby to ascertain the sequence of events.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/india-reassures-israel-after-explosion-outside-embassy/article33700709.ece
30 January 2021||Bengaluru,||State seeks nod to vaccinate 1,000 eminent personalities||With the COVID-19 vaccination coverage hovering around 50% in the State, the Health and Family Welfare Department has written to the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) seeking permission to vaccinate over 1,000 influential personalities from all walks of life. These personalities, including celebrities, film stars, sportspersons, religious leaders, and heads of media organisations, are to be vaccine ambassadors who can help the State boost confidence among people to take the jab. However, they do not include politicians. Health and Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar said that politicians were not included in the list of eminent personalities as the Prime Minister had prioritised healthcare workers for vaccination in the first phase in recognition of their contribution in the battle against COVID-19. Although Karnataka’s vaccination coverage is the highest in the country, the State has been able to vaccinate only about half the targeted healthcare workers so far. While this is attributed to vaccine hesitancy owing to fear factor, there is also a new sense of confidence among healthcare workers that they do not require vaccination as they might have already developed antibodies. “Also, like in other countries, if politicians had taken the shot first it would have made us more confident about the safety of the vaccine,” said a senior doctor from Victoria Hospital who is yet to take the jab. Misconceptions However, Mr. Sudhakar said even if politicians were vaccinated first, it would not have made much of a difference. “The hesitancy is mainly because of misconceptions about vaccination and rumours spreading on social media,” he said. “We are expecting a reply from the PMO in a day or two. We are hoping that if cine stars, religious leaders and other influential personalities take the vaccine, then people even in rural areas will be convinced,” the Minister said. C.N. Manjunath, nodal officer for labs and testing in the State’s COVID-19 task force, said there were multiple reasons for the hesitancy. “Hesitancy and fear factor is a basic human tendency whenever a new vaccine is introduced. Besides, there is a sense of confidence among some who feel they do not require vaccination as they have already been exposed to the virus and have developed antibodies. But, vaccination is required even for those who have recovered,” he said. Moreover, the introduction of Covaxin even as concerns over the lack of substantial efficacy data still exist has also created confusion among healthcare workers, he added. As many as 3,06,187 healthcare workers of the targeted 5,92,260 have been vaccinated so far, taking the overall coverage in Karnataka to 52%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-seeks-nod-to-vaccinate-1000-eminent-personalities/article33700752.ece
30 January 2021||Kolkata,||TMC MLA Rajib Banerjee resigns from Assembly||Trinamool Congress MLA Rajib Banerjee on Friday resigned from the West Bengal Assembly. He had resigned as Forest Minister on January 22. The MLA from Domjur in Howrah district had been discontent against the party for the past several months. He had mentioned ‘nepotism’ in the party and said deserving people are sidelined in it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tmc-mla-rajib-banerjee-resigns-from-assembly/article33701156.ece
30 January 2021||LUCKNOW,||HC orders protection for same-sex couple||Noting that it was duty bound to monitor the rights of citizens under threat on account of their sexual orientation, the Allahabad High Court has ordered police protection for a same-sex woman couple in Uttar Pradesh’s Saharanpur. The women, aged 23 and 22, had approached the court seeking directions to their families to not interfere in their relationship.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hc-orders-protection-for-same-sex-couple/article33701245.ece
30 January 2021||KALABURAGI,||Private multi-speciality hospital sealed||A team of officers headed by District Health and Family Welfare Officer Janardhan raided and sealed a private multi-speciality hospital that was said to have been operating without registration under Karnataka Private Medical Establishment (KPME) Act, in Ballari on Friday, as per information provided by sources in the Health Department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/private-multi-speciality-hospital-sealed/article33701008.ece
30 January 2021||Bengaluru,||Two Ministers incited Council chaos: report||Blaming Deputy Chief Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan and Minor Irrigation Minister J.C. Madhuswamy for the pandemonium in the Legislative Council on December 15, 2020, a three-member House Committee has recommended the barring of several members, belonging to various parties, from participating in House proceedings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/two-ministers-incited-council-chaos-report/article33700754.ece
30 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Why can’t UPSC aspirants take exam again, asks SC||The Supreme Court on Friday asked the Union government what stopped it from giving Union Public Service Commission aspirants another chance to take the preliminary exam as a “one-time concession”. It, however, made it clear that it had no intention to ask the government to relax the age limit of 32 in order to allow the aspirants to have another crack at the exam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/why-cant-upsc-aspirants-take-exam-again-asks-sc/article33700891.ece
30 January 2021||Pune,||Local train services to resume from Feb. 1||The Maharashtra government on Friday extended the lockdown across the State till February 28. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray’s office said the general public would finally be permitted to travel in local trains from February 1. The services would operate in three slots: from the start of services for the day to 7 a.m., then from 12 noon to 4 p.m., and then again from 9 p.m. to the closure of services for the day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/local-train-services-to-resume-from-feb-1/article33701221.ece
30 January 2021||Bengaluru,||‘Schools can charge only 70% of tuition fees’||The Department of Primary and Secondary Education has reduced the fees that managements of private schools can collect from parents for the current 2020-2021 academic year. They can collect only 70% of the tuition fees that they had collected last year (2019-20), said S. Suresh Kumar, Primary and Secondary Education Minister at a press conference on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/schools-can-charge-only-70-of-tuition-fees/article33701224.ece
30 January 2021||CHENNAI,||52,257-crore investment proposals cleared||The State Cabinet on Friday accorded approval for 34 major proposals for investments to the tune of Rs. 52,257 crore in the State. The Cabinet meeting, chaired by Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, also cleared the Tamil Nadu Industrial Policy 2021.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/proposals-for-52257-cr-investment-cleared/article33700794.ece
30 January 2021||CHENNAI,||State logs 509 new cases and 6 fatalities||The State recorded 509 cases of COVID-19 on Friday, even as Ramanathapuram district saw no new case and five others — Perambalur, Tenkasi, Theni, Tirupattur and Villupuram — reported one infection each. Six more persons succumbed to the infection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-registers-509-new-cases-6-fatalities/article33700795.ece
30 January 2021||New Delhi,||No retreat, Rahul tells farmers||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Friday said that what was being done to farmers was absolutely criminal. At a press conference in Delhi, he exhorted the farmers not to cede even “an inch” of space since it was a question of their future and dignity. The government must not think that farmers were going to go home. This situation was only going to spread and there was an urgent need for a conversation and arrive at a solution. “I want to tell our farmers that we [Congress] are with them. You should not move an inch back, it’s a question of your future and you should fight for it. These four or five people, who are trying to rob you of your future, do not let them rob you. And we are with you in this fight,” he said. Without singling out any one incident of violence, he said, “What is being done to farmers is absolutely criminal. You are beating them, you are threatening them, you are bullying them, and you are trying to discredit them.” Farmers’ anger was only obvious, because the laws would destroy their livelihood, he said. Mr. Gandhi cautioned the middle class, saying that once the laws were implemented, the food prices would skyrocket. “This is the biggest transfer of wealth from the largest number of people to the smallest number of people. You have seen what has happened in COVID-19. During the pandemic, the poor have got poorer and a handful of rich people, 5-6 rich people, have just got richer and richer and richer and richer,” he alleged. Targets Home Ministry Speaking about the clashes between farmers and the Delhi Police on January 26, he asked how a group of farmers was let inside the Red Fort. He targeted the Home Ministry for ‘failing’ to protect a national monument. At a press conference on Wednesday, Congress general secretary, communications, Randeep Surjewala, said Tuesday’s events were a concerted orchestration. Plan to discredit farmers Mr. Gandhi said, “I think, absolutely, the person who has allowed this to happen should resign but there is no way he is going to resign. I mean, the BJP doesn’t take responsibility for its actions. So I don’t expect him to resign. But, the whole idea is to discredit the farmers.” It was essential to understand the three farm laws to understand the protest. “The first law destroys the mandi system, destroys the agricultural markets of this country. The second one allows unlimited storage of grain and other materials and will make it practically impossible for farmers to negotiate their prices. The third law basically says that if farmers have grievance, they cannot go to court,” Mr. Gandhi added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-retreat-rahul-tells-farmers/article33700640.ece
30 January 2021||New Delhi,||Speaker seeks MPs’ cooperation||Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla chaired an all-party meeting on Friday, the opening day of the Budget session, at which Opposition leaders demanded a debate on the farm laws on the floor of the House. Separately, the Business Advisory Committee (BAC) decided to end the first part of the session on February 13, instead of February 15 as scheduled earlier. February 15 being a Monday, BAC members unanimously decided to work on a Saturday and end the first part on February 13, instead of stretching it to a new week, said sources. Earlier schedule According to the earlier schedule, the session was to go on a recess on February 15 and reconvene on March 8 before it finally ends on April 8. The BAC also decided to allocate 10 hours for the debate on the Motion of Thanks to the President for his address to the joint sitting of Parliament that was delivered on Friday. The debate would take place on February 2, 3 and 4, and Prime Minister Narendra Modi would reply on February 5, the sources said. Later, at the all-party meeting, Speaker Birla assured the members that he would try to give every member a chance to speak on different issues and requested their cooperation. Responding to the Opposition’s demand for a debate on the farm laws, the government suggested that the issue can be raised during the Motion of Thanks debate. Earlier in the day, when the Lok Sabha briefly met to table the Economic Survey, Congress MPs trooped into the well of the House and shouted slogans against the farm laws.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/speaker-seeks-mps-cooperation/article33700654.ece
30 January 2021||MUMBAI,||‘Withdraw forbearance once economy recovers’||The Economic Survey 2020-21 has prescribed an early withdrawal of the regulatory forbearance that was adopted in the wake of the pandemic to ward off the threat of financial sector failures impacting the real economy. “Forbearance represents emergency medicine that should be discontinued at the first opportunity when the economy exhibits recovery, not a staple diet that gets continued for years,” the survey’s authors said, citing the lesson learnt from the prolonged continuance of the loosened regulations over the seven years following the Global Financial Crisis (GFC) of 2008. During the GFC, the forbearance, which should have been discontinued in 2011 when GDP, exports, IIP and credit growth had all recovered significantly, continued for seven years resulting in unintended and detrimental consequences for banks, firms, and the economy, the survey asserted. “Given relaxed provisioning requirements, banks exploited the forbearance window to restructure loans even for unviable entities, thereby window dressing their books,” it said. The lesson for policymakers was “to treat emergency measures as such and not to extend them even after recovery: when an emergency medicine becomes a staple diet, it can be counterproductive.” It recommends policymakers set thresholds of economic recovery at which such measures would be withdrawn. These thresholds ought to then be communicated to the banks in advance so that they could prepare for the same. “Prolonged forbearance is likely to sow the seeds of a much deeper crisis... forbearance should be accompanied by restrictions on zombie lending to ensure a healthy borrowing culture.” It said a clean-up of bank balance sheets was necessary when the forbearance was discontinued. “Note that while the 2016 AQR [Asset Quality Review] exacerbated the problems in the banking sector, the lesson from the same is not that an AQR should not be conducted,” the survey added. AQR imperative It said given the problem of asymmetric information between the regulator and the banks, which gets accentuated during the forbearance regime, an AQR exercise must be conducted immediately after the forbearance is withdrawn. “The asset quality review must account for all the creative ways in which banks can evergreen their loans. The banking regulator needs to be more equipped in the early detection of fault lines and must expand the tool kit of ex-ante remedial measures.” The Survey said a clean-up unaccompanied by mandatory capital infusion exacerbates bad lending practices. “Expecting banks to get recapitalised on their own on account of economic recovery may not be prudent.” Therefore, a clean-up exercise should be accompanied by mandatory recapitalisation based on a thorough evaluation of the capital requirements post an asset quality review, it added. “Apart from recapitalising banks, it is important to enhance the quality of their governance. Ever-greening of loans by banks as well as zombie lending is symptomatic of poor governance, suggesting that bank boards are “asleep at the wheel” and auditors are not performing their required role as the first line of defence,” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/withdraw-forbearance-once-economy-recovers/article33700668.ece
30 January 2021||January 30 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Delink boundary dispute from ties’||China on Friday said it “appreciates” External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar emphasising the importance of India-China relations, but reiterated its calls for the boundary dispute to “not be linked with the overall bilateral relations”. In a speech on Thursday, Mr. Jaishankar said the relationship needed to be built on “mutual respect, mutual sensitivity and mutual interests”. The Minister outlined eight propositions to take the ties forward after what he called a year of “exceptional stress”. ‘Prerequisite for ties’ Mr. Jaishankar underlined India’s view that peace on the border was a prerequisite for the rest of the relationship to develop. China’s actions last year had “not only signalled a disregard for commitments about minimising troop levels”, but also “showed a willingness to breach the peace and tranquillity” on the border that had been the foundation of the relationship. The advancement of ties, he added, was “predicated on ensuring that peace and tranquillity was not disturbed, and the Line of Actual Control [LAC] was both observed and respected by both sides”. Asked by the official media in Beijing to respond to his remarks, China’s Foreign Ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian said the Ministry “noted Minister Jaishankar’s remarks”. “He stressed the importance of India-China relations; it shows the Indian side attaches importance to the ties with China, we appreciate this,” Mr. Zhao said. ‘Work with us’ “Meanwhile, we stress that the boundary issue shall not be linked with the overall bilateral relations. That is important experience we have gathered through the countries many years efforts to keep the ties moving forward. We hope the Indian side will work with us to properly manage difference, promote practical cooperation and bring bilateral relations back on track.” China has in recent months hit out at India’s economic measures, such as the banning of apps and tightening the curbs on investment, saying events on the border should not be linked to other aspects of relations. India has reiterated its view that such a proposition is untenable, and normal relations can’t be restored until there is peace on the border and a full restoration of the status quo, prior to last summer’s transgressions. Mr. Jaishankar underlined that view in his speech, saying that any expectation that the events on the border “can be brushed aside and that life can carry on undisturbed despite the situation in the border is simply not realistic”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/delink-boundary-dispute-from-ties/article33700648.ece
30 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Opposition is trying to set ‘wrong traditions’, says BJP||The BJP on Friday accused the Opposition of trying to set “wrong traditions” by boycotting President Ram Nath Kovind’s address to both Houses of Parliament at the commencement of the Budget session. It said the Congress’s condemnation of the violence at the Red Fort on Republic Day was mere “tokenism”. Speaking outside Parliament, Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said, “Today’s Budget session commenced with the President’s address, but it is really unfortunate that the entire Opposition boycotted it.”  ‘Above differences’ “The President of India is above political differences; he is the constitutional head. Respecting him in his address is healthy practice of democracy. It is unfortunate that the Opposition, especially the Congress who governed the country for 50 years, boycotted it. What traditions are they establishing?” he said. The Congress members, of whose leading family — the Nehru-Gandhis — had for generations unfurled the national flag at the Red Fort on Independence Day as Prime Ministers, had failed to properly condemn the siege of the Red Fort by protesters on Republic Day. “I regret to say that except for tokenism, there was no real condemnation of the defilement of the Red Fort on that [January 26] day by the Congress,” he said. ‘Disrespected the public’ BJP national general secretary Bhupendra Yadav said, “The President of India represents the rule of the public. The Opposition has disrespected the public by boycotting his Parliament speech. They failed in governance and are now failing as a responsible Opposition.” The government has been facing a protesting Opposition from day one of the Budget session, with the boycott of the President’s address to both Houses of Parliament and shouting of slogans as Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman tabled the Economic Survey.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/opposition-is-trying-to-set-wrong-traditions-says-bjp/article33700652.ece
30 January 2021||New Delhi,||Govt. tightens oversight on funds received by NGOs||The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) has laid down a charter for banks which says that “donations received in Indian rupees” by non-governmental organisations (NGOs) and associations from “any foreign source even if that source is located in India at the time of such donation” should be treated as “foreign contribution”. As per the existing rules, all banks have to report to the Central government within 48 hours, the “receipt or utilisation of any foreign contribution” by any NGO, association or person whether or not they are registered or granted prior permission under the FCRA. Last September, the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act, 2010, was amended by Parliament and a new provision that makes it mandatory for all NGOs to receive foreign funds in a designated bank account at the State Bank of India’s New Delhi branch was inserted. FCRA regulates foreign donations and ensures that such contributions do not adversely affect the internal security of the country. All NGOs seeking foreign donations have to open a designated FCRA account at the SBI branch by March 31. The NGOs can retain their existing FCRA account in any other bank but it will have to be mandatorily linked to the SBI branch in New Delhi. Penal provisions The Ministry has laid out a series of guidelines and charter to make the NGOs and the banks comply with the new provisions. The charter for the banks said, “It may be noted that foreign contribution has to be received only through banking channels and it has to be accounted for in the manner prescribed. Any violation by the NGO or by the bank may invite penal provisions of The FCRA, 2010.” It added that “donations given in Indian rupees (INR) by any foreigner/foreign source including foreigners of Indian origin like OCI or PIO cardholders” should also be treated as foreign contribution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/govt-tightens-oversight-on-funds-received-by-ngos/article33700700.ece
30 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Online memorial to COVID-19 victims going live today||Photographs, obituaries and blogs written by relatives or friends of COVID-19 victims. An online national memorial, conceived for those who died of COVID-19 across the country, goes live on Saturday, an initiative by a Kolkata-based NGO comprising medical fraternity and others. “COVID-19 snatched the opportunity for families to bid a traditional goodbye to their loved ones who they lost to the virus, so this unique venture is an attempt to allow people across the country to grieve and possibly even heal together. Grief is a very private emotion. But, through this website, we hope people will realise that they are not alone,” said Abhijit Chowdhury, a volunteer with Covid Care Network (CCN), an NGO led by a group of doctors spearheading this initiative. The initiative, he said, was born out of the COVID-19 gloom that enveloped the world last year. “COVID took away family members in a merciless manner where we could not even bid farewell. With this digital memorial, we can keep the memories of loved ones with us forever. The memorial will be a space for thousands of Indians and their families,” he said. The website — https://www.nationalcovidmemorial.in — would display photographs, obituaries and blogs in memory of individuals written by relatives or friends, after going through an editing and authentication process. Relevant material may be sent to nationalcovidmemorial@gmail.com or submitted directly at the website. “We may need an accompanying certificate of death for regulatory reasons only,” Dr. Chowdhury said. The volunteers added that the venture would help society as a whole, as the emotional toll that COVID-19 takes when the deceased are denied a dignity of exiting can be traumatic. ‘“The unceremonious, unsung manner of doing this [bidding the final goodbye] has had an emotional cost. We are just sending the message across, and we now have people sending in photographs and obituaries as well as blogs for the site,” Dr. Chowdhury added. He said the NGO was ready with infrastructure to handle the huge volume of information that could come their way. “There is an editorial team and a digital team, and we are guided by a panel of advisers of persons of eminence from different walks of life across the country. Authenticity of information is cross-checked with data and a certificate of demise,” he said. Dr. Chowdhury added that an important challenge for the group would be to get “stories of the people who were not tech-savvy and belonged to a relatively marginalised segment of society”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/online-memorial-to-covid-19-victims-going-live-today/article33700659.ece
30 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Agility key to countering pandemics||The ongoing pandemic has showcased how a healthcare crisis can get transformed into an economic and social crisis, noted the Economic Survey 2020-21. It said the healthcare policy must not become beholden to ‘saliency bias’, where policy overweighs a recent phenomenon. “To enable India to respond to pandemics, the health infrastructure must be agile,” it said. Stating that COVID-19 had spread worldwide because it is a communicable disease, the survey notes that the next health crisis may not possibly involve a communicable disease and that India’s healthcare policy must continue focusing on its long-term healthcare priorities. “Following the COVID-19 pandemic, a key portfolio decision that healthcare policy must make is about the relative importance placed on communicable versus non-communicable diseases. To enable India to respond to pandemics, the health infrastructure must be agile. For instance, every hospital may be equipped so that at least one ward in the hospital can be quickly modified to respond to a national health emergency while caring for the normal diseases in usual times. Research in building such health infrastructure can guide how to build such flexible wards.” Telemedicine potential It added that the pandemic had revealed the potential of telemedicine to provide healthcare access in remote areas. “This needs to be harnessed to the fullest by especially investing in Internet connectivity and health infrastructure.” The National Health mission had played a critical role in mitigating inequity as the access of the poorest to pre-natal and post-natal care as well as institutional deliveries had increased significantly, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/agility-key-to-countering-pandemics/article33700662.ece
30 January 2021||Bengaluru,||Deve Gowda keeps away from President’s address||H.D. Deve Gowda, former Prime Minister and JD(S) supremo did not attend President Ram Nath Kovind’s joint address to Parliament, in solidarity with the farmers agitating against the farm laws. Early on Friday he announced his decision in a tweet, “In solidarity with my farmer brothers fighting against the three #FarmLaws, I have decided, after consulting my party @JanataDal_S units, not to attend the President’s joint address of Parliament today.” The Opposition parties, led by Congress and backed by Left parties and some regional parties, had decided on Thursday not to attend the address. JD(S) had not figured in this list on Thursday. However, Mr. Gowda announced that his party too will join the group early on Friday through the tweet. In Karnataka It may be mentioned here that BJP-led government in Karnataka has been able to pass a contentious farm law with the help of JD(S) in the Upper House. Amendments made to the Karnataka Land Reforms Act, 1961, that had not been cleared in the first go in the Legislative Council were chairperson and deputy chairperson. Elections to the latter are being held on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/gowda-skips-presidents-address/article33700759.ece
30 January 2021||Hyderabad,||Vaccine hesitancy not new to India||Doubts about the efficacy of vaccines is not new in India. The same dilemma was confronted by the British when they rolled out vaccines for plague and cholera over 120 years ago. While religious considerations played a role in the hesitation, a tragic incident where 19 persons died after getting vaccinated added to the reluctance among the citizens. Fears about religious contamination due to use of taboo meats like cow and pig during the culture of prophylactic vaccines drove large sections of population away from the vaccines. The scientists found a way out by using goat’s meat which was acceptable for culturing the vaccine. “A suitable culture medium has been obtained by digesting goat’s meat in the autoclave at 140°C with hydrochloric acid, and then neutralising the acid medium with caustic soda,” says the Plague Commission Report of 1901. This solution to religious intransigence was solved by Waldemar Mordecai Wolff Haffkine, a Ukrainian bacteriologist who began working with the colonial administration in Bombay. Among the religious leaders, Aga Khan gave instructions to his followers after which 81% of the community got inoculated. Then tragedy stuck. In October 1902, 107 people were inoculated in Mulkowal village in Punjab. Within a few days, 19 people died of tetanus poisoning and the blame fell on Haffkine and his laboratory in Bombay. A Commission of Inquiry reached a conclusion that the vaccine batch was tainted and Haffkine had to quit in disgrace. At that moment, Ronald Ross, who had won a Nobel Prize for his research on Anopheles mosquito in Secunderabad, stepped in to help Haffikine. Ross wrote to Nature journal, linking the poisoning incident to vaccine hesitancy. “The public perception that the poisoning was due to carelessness at the laboratory and not to an accident was leading to rejection of the vaccine at a time when 20,000 deaths were occurring per week due to plague,” wrote Ross, who by then was working as a professor of Tropical Medicine in University of Liverpool. Haffkine was exonerated following pressure by Ross and other scientists. While the efficacy of the plague vaccine was not quantified, the safety of the vaccine was clear. The roll-out of the vaccine gained traction, overcoming all odds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/vaccine-hesitancy-not-new-to-india/article33701053.ece
30 January 2021||CHANDIGARH,||BJP sponsoring opposition to farmers’ protests: BKU(U)||With “local people” reportedly demanding that farmers vacate the protest sites near the Delhi borders, Joginder Singh, president of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ugrahan), one of the largest outfits in Punjab, on Friday said the BJP government at the Centre were sponsoring such acts. Mr. Singh told The Hindu that the government was playing dirty tricks to give an impression that the farmers’ movement was weakening, which, he said, “was only strengthening after the excesses committed by the government”. Mr. Singh said, “It’s all BJP’s plot. They have government in Haryana and they are planting their own people to speak against us — be it in Singhu or at Tikri. Two people had approached me at Tikri, asking our union to remove our stage. We told them that we were fighting for a cause for future generations, after which they left. We will not let the government be successful in their dirty tricks. We will expose the government.” “The government is committing excesses on farmers who are peacefully protesting on the borders of Delhi. What happened in Ghazipur is a clear example of these excesses. None of the farmers have done any damage to anyone, even the court has reiterated that protesting and staging ‘dharna’ is a democratic right of farmers, but the government was witch-hunting farmers,” he said. Mr. Singh said the government was trying to frame farmers by lodging fake cases against them. “Are farmers terrorists? We strongly condemn this,” Mr. Singh said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-sponsoring-opposition-to-farmers-protests-bkuu/article33700626.ece
30 January 2021||January 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Rahul has given a call for violence: BJP||The BJP on Friday accused Congress MP Rahul Gandhi of giving a call for “violence” after he held a press conference warning the government that if the protests by farmers against the three agriculture laws is not dealt with properly, then the agitation may well spread across the country. At a press conference at the BJP’s national headquarters, Union Minister Smriti Irani said Mr. Gandhi’s statement was unprecedented. “Never before in our democratic history have we witnessed a political leader asking for fire of violence to spread instead of seeking and promoting peace,” she said. His statements suggested that the violence during the farmers’ tractor rally on Republic Day could be replicated across the country, she alleged. Ms. Irani pointed out the lack of any reference to the 300 Delhi Police personnel injured during Tuesday’s violence. “He [Rahul Gandhi] not only wants law and order breakdown but also supports anarchic elements daring to insult the Tricolour and break the country,” she stated. Mr. Gandhi was upset as the police remained restrained in tackling the situation and was unhappy that there was no pile of “dead bodies”. So he himself wanted to fuel fire in the country, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rahul-has-given-a-call-for-violence-bjp/article33700633.ece
30 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Novavax, to be made by SII, shows 89% efficacy in U.K.||American company Novavax, whose COVID-19 vaccine is set to be made in large numbers by the Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII), has reported that its vaccine has proved to have 89% efficacy in preventing the infection in some trial volunteers in the United Kingdom. However, the efficacy dropped to 60% when it was tested in volunteers in South Africa, a likely consequence of a mutant coronavirus variant that is now deep-rooted there. The study enrolled more than 15,000 participants aged between 18 and 84, including 27% over 65. The efficacy results are an “interim analysis” as the Phase-3 trials are ongoing. When 62 RT-PCR positive cases were analysed, 56 were observed in the placebo group versus six cases observed in the vaccinated (NVX-CoV2373) group. Of them, 61 were mild or moderate infection and one — in the placebo group — was a severe infection. More than half the positive cases were found to harbour the ‘U.K. variant’, which is linked to heightened infectivity, and the vaccine protected 85% of those with the variant as opposed to 95% with the original variant. Since December, scientists have raised concerns over mutated variants, particularly those isolated in the U.K., South Africa and Brazil that harbour changes, allowing the virus to cheat the immune system. These variants are being linked to renewed waves of the virus, but haven’t been shown to be more lethal. Researchers associated with the trial said 60% efficacy was good news as nearly 90% of those who participated were affected by the South African variant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/novavax-to-be-made-by-sii-shows-89-efficacy-in-uk/article33700649.ece
30 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Capital budget allocated for defence completely utilised since 2016-17||The allocated capital budget for defence has been fully utilised since 2016-17, reversing the previous trends of surrender of funds, as per the Economic Survey. “The trend of underutilisation of defence budget has also been reversed from financial year 2016-17,” the Survey stated. The allocation for defence budget, including civil estimates and pensions for 2020-21, was Rs. 4,71,378 crore or Rs. 40,367.71 crore more than the budget estimates of 2019-20. On account of the lengthy procurement process and delays in finalising deals, in the past, unused funds had been returned at the end of the financial year. Last year, the armed forces went for a series of emergency procurements since the stand-off with China in May along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Eastern Ladakh. At the Army Day address on January 15, Army Chief General Manoj Naravane said that last year, 38 deals were executed through ‘emergency and fast track’ route and these were worth about Rs. 5,000 crore. In addition, capital procurements worth Rs. 13,000 crore were concluded. On efforts to boost indigenisation of weapons systems, the Economic Survey said Defence Public Sector Undertakings (DPSU) and Ordnance Factories (OFs) were striving to increase the indigenous content of the equipment and products manufactured by them. “The indigenous content as on March 31, 2020 was 74.56%,” it noted. On efforts to boost private sector participation in domestic manufacturing, it said that as a policy, the DPSUs and OFs have been outsourcing many of their requirements and ‘the value of outsourcing, in terms of value of production, for the FY 2019-20 stands at 41.70%.” Wide vendor base Further, over the years, a wide vendor base had been developed. Exports from the Ordnance Factory Board (OFB), the DPSUs and the private sector had increased from Rs. 4,682 crore in 2017-18 to Rs. 9,116 crore in 2019-20. Since the opening of defence sector to private participation in 2001, 44 Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) proposals and joint ventures have been approved for manufacture of various equipment, both in the public and the private sectors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/capital-budget-allocated-for-defence-completely-utilised-since-2016-17/article33700666.ece
30 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘High out-of-pocket expenses for health can lead to poverty’||India has one-of-the highest level of Out-Of-Pocket Expenditures (OOPE) contributing directly to the high incidence of catastrophic expenditures and poverty, notes the Economic Survey. It suggested an increase in public spending from 1% to 2.5-3% of GDP — as envisaged in the National Health Policy 2017 — can decrease the OOPE from 65% to 30% of overall healthcare spend. The Survey states about 65% of deaths in India are now caused by non-communicable diseases (NCDs) with ischemic heart diseases, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and stroke being the leading causes. The Survey observes that the health of a nation depends critically on its citizens having access to an equitable, affordable and accountable healthcare system. The OOPE, as a share of total health expenditure, drops precipitously when public health expenditure increases. The Survey also underlines that OOPE for health increases the risk of vulnerable groups slipping into poverty because of catastrophic health expenditures. The life expectancy in a country correlates positively with per capita public health expenditure, it notes.  Private healthcare The Economic Survey observed that bulk of the healthcare in India is provided by the private sector. “Private hospitals charge much higher than government hospitals for treatment of same ailment and higher charges do not assure better quality,,’’ it said. The Survey added that for enabling India to respond to pandemics, the health infrastructure must incorporate flexibility as events requiring healthcare attention may not repeat in identical fashion in future.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/high-out-of-pocket-expenses-for-health-can-lead-to-poverty/article33700670.ece
30 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Bare necessities gap between States has narrowed since 2012, survey shows||Poorer States have reduced the gap with rich States in providing citizens with access to the basics of daily life — housing, water, power, sanitation, cooking gas — according to a new ‘Bare Necessities Index’ (BNI) in the Economic Survey 2020-21. The index, which draws its name from Baloo the Bear’s song in the movie adaptation of Rudyard Kipling’s Jungle Book, uses existing National Statistical Office survey data to show that between 2012 and 2018, serious gains were made in the area of sanitation although equity in housing access still lagged. States such as Kerala, Punjab, Haryana and Gujarat top the index, while eastern Indian States of Odisha, Jharkhand, West Bengal and Tripura occupy the lowest rungs. States which showed significant improvement include Uttarakhand, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh. “Inter-State disparities in the access to ‘the bare necessities’ have declined in 2018 when compared to 2012 across rural and urban areas,” said the survey. “Access to ‘the bare necessities’ has improved disproportionately more for the poorest households when compared to the richest households across rural and urban areas. The improvement in equity is particularly noteworthy because while the rich can seek private alternatives, lobby for better services, or if need be, move to areas where public goods are better provided for, the poor rarely have such choices.” However, the survey noted there was still a gap between urban and rural India, as well as among income groups, and recommended “effective targeting of the needier population” in government schemes. Better Centre-State coordination with local governments is needed, as they were responsible for civic amenities in urban areas, added the survey. It also suggested the BNI could be constructed at district level using large annual household survey data, to show progress.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bare-necessities-gap-between-states-has-narrowed-since-2012-survey-shows/article33700672.ece
30 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||India’s ratings don’t reflect economy’s fundamentals: CEA||India’s sovereign credit ratings do not reflect the economy’s fundamentals, Chief Economic Adviser Krishnamurthy Subramanian said on Friday, while pitching for sovereign credit ratings methodology to be made more transparent and less subjective. “Never in the history of sovereign credit ratings has the fifth-largest economy in the world been rated as the lowest rung of the investment grade (BBB-/Baa3). Reflecting the economic size and thereby the ability to repay debt, the fifth-largest economy has been predominantly rated AAA. China and India are the only exceptions to this rule,” the CEA said. The Economic Survey, tabled in Parliament on Friday, added that while sovereign credit ratings do not reflect the Indian economy’s fundamentals, “noisy, opaque and biased credit ratings” damage FPI flows. “Sovereign credit ratings methodology must be amended to reflect economies’ ability and willingness to pay their debt obligations by becoming more transparent and less subjective. ‘Must address bias’ “Developing economies must come together to address this bias and subjectivity inherent in sovereign credit ratings methodology to prevent exacerbation of crises in future,” it said. The CEA also pointed out that the problems of India’s administrative processes derive less from lack of compliance to processes or regulatory standards, but from over-regulation. ‘India overregulates’ “It is not possible to have complete regulations in a world which has uncertainty as it is not possible to account for all possible outcomes. The evidence, however, shows that India over-regulates the economy. “This results in regulations being ineffective even with relatively good compliance with process,” Dr. Subramanian said in the Survey. The Chief Economic Adviser also pitched for simplification of regulatory processes by avoiding substitution of supervision with more complex regulation, along with transparent decision-making processes. The CEA also highlighted that given the problem of asymmetric information between the regulator and the banks, which gets accentuated during the forbearance regime, an Asset Quality Review exercise must be conducted immediately after the forbearance is withdrawn.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/indias-ratings-dont-reflect-economys-fundamentals-cea/article33700677.ece
30 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Govt. playing games with farmer unions’||Former National Democratic Alliance (NDA) partner Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) pledged support to the protesting farmers, and decried what it described as attempts by the government to “play games” with the farmer unions that, it said, led to the violence on Republic Day. SAD leader Sukhbir Singh Badal said he had a telephone conversation with Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait and told him that the party would support his group’s efforts in full. “I spoke to Rakesh Tikait ji  and assured him of Akali Dal’s unstinted support to the kisan andolan [farmers’ protest]. I lauded his principled stand against Central oppression. We also reminisced about how our fathers fought as one for the cause of the farmers and resolved to do the utmost to ensure their victory,” Mr. Badal said. The SAD had walked out of the ruling NDA during the monsoon session of Parliament last year when the three contentious farm laws were cleared by both Houses. Former Union Minister Harsimrat Badal said it was regrettable that “there was not a single word in the President’s address to both Houses of Parliament about the 100 or more farmers who have died protesting against the three laws”. ‘Skilful game’ “The government is trying to crush the protests. Their tandav [dance of fury] over the emotions of the farmers is very open. A game was played very skilfully on January 26 on innocent farmers who did not know the roads of Delhi. We condemn violence, but let us not be blind to fact that the government has stooped to low means to deflect from the real issues just because they don’t want to deal with it,” she said. The party had joined 18 other political parties in boycotting President Ram Nath Kovind’s joint address to both Houses of Parliament, and MPs from the party stood in protest outside the House throughout the speech.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/government-playing-games-with-farmer-unions-says-sad/article33700623.ece
30 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Why UPSC aspirants can’t take exam again, asks SC||The Supreme Court on Friday asked the Union government what stopped it from giving Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) aspirants another chance to take the preliminary exam as a “one-time concession”. It, however, made it clear that it had no intention to ask the government to relax the age limit of 32 in order to allow the aspirants to have another crack at the exam. Several aspirants had approached the Supreme Court for another chance at the exam, claiming that the spread of COVID-19 and the resultant lockdown hampered their preparations for the prelims held on October 4. The government is against giving them another opportunity or any sort of relaxation in age, saying it would amount to extending differential treatment having cascading consequences.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/why-upsc-aspirants-cant-take-exam-again-asks-sc/article33700631.ece
30 January 2021||SRINAGAR,||3 Hizb militants killed in Pulwama encounter||Three Hizbul Mujahideen militants were killed in an encounter in south Kashmir’s Pulwama on Friday. Another group of militants was trapped in Pulwama’s Lelhar area in the evening. “Three Hizb militants were killed during an operation, launched following a specific input provided by the Awantipora Police regarding the presence of terrorists in Mandoora village in Tral area,” Inspector General of Police (IGP) Vijay Kumar said. “They were given an opportunity to surrender. However, they fired indiscriminately.” They were all residents of Pulwama’s Awantipora. The police said they were part of the groups involved in several terror crimes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/3-hizb-militants-killed-in-pulwama-encounter/article33700635.ece
30 January 2021||January 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Govt. to abide by SC order on farm laws||He said these laws do not take away any rights and facilities that are available under the existing system; rather the laws have “provided new facilities to the farmers and has empowered them.” Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Cabinet colleagues were seen thumping their desks when the President referred to the benefits of the farm laws. Without naming China, the President also referred to the unprecedented escalation of tensions in the borders, informed about deploying additional troops on the borders and paid homage to the 20 soldiers who made supreme sacrifices in a violent face-off clash with Chinese troops at the Galwan valley (Easten Ladakh) last June. While the President’s address — prepared by the Cabinet to showcase the achievements of the union government — dwelt on agricultural reforms at length, more than 20 Opposition parties, led by the Congress, boycotted the Presidential address. However, Congress MP from Punjab Ravneet Bittu entered the Central Hall of Parliament and raised the slogan ‘Jai Jawan Jai Kisan’ during the address and demanded repeal of the three laws. Later, Congress MPs including Rahul Gandhi protested outside the Parliament House.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/govt-to-abide-by-sc-order-on-farm-laws/article33700636.ece
30 January 2021||January 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Economic Survey predicts 11% growth||With India expected to emerge as the fastest growing economy in the next two years as per International Monetary Fund, the Survey argued that the country’s ‘mature policy response to this “once-in-a-century” crisis provides important lessons for democracies to avoid myopic policy-making and demonstrates the significant benefits of focusing on long-term gains’. “The global economy, including India, has been set back in time by the pandemic induced crisis. In the five years before 2020-21, Indian economy grew at an average growth of 6.7%. In 2021-22, a sharp recovery of real GDP growth of 10%-12% is expected based on a low base effect and inherent strengths of the economy. It is assumed that the economy grows at its trend growth rate of 6.5% in 2022-23 and 7% in 2023-24, aided by the structural reforms. If two scenarios of 12% growth and 10% growth in 2021-22 are envisaged, India would be 91.5% and 90% below the trend level of output, respectively, by 2023-24,” the Survey noted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/economic-survey-predicts-11-growth/article33700641.ece
30 January 2021||January 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Jokes need no defence, says stand-up comedian||Jokes needed no defence, he wrote. Jokes were based on a comedian’s perception. His job was to share his perception with his audience and make them laugh. “Most people do not react to jokes that do not make them laugh. They ignore them like our political leaders ignore their critics. That is where the life of a joke must end,” he stated. “The more attention you paid to a joke, the more credible it became.” “The public faith in the judiciary is founded on the institution’s own actions, and not on any criticism or commentary about it,” he stated. Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, appearing for artist Rachita Taneja, who is also facing contempt for her tweets, agreed with Mr. Kamra that the Supreme Court rested on strong foundations, and criticism need not be countered with contempt action. He said constitutional offices — including judicial offices — needed no protection from jokes. The comedian said he did not buy the argument that judges would be unable to perform their functions just because they were the subject of satire or comedy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/jokes-need-no-defence-says-stand-up-comedian/article33700642.ece
30 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Plea seeks appointment of PMLA tribunal chief||The Supreme Court on Friday asked the government to respond to a petition seeking reasons for the delay in appointment of chairman and members to the appellate tribunal under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). A Bench led by Chief Justice of India Sharad A. Bobde gave the government four weeks to reply to the petition filed by Amit Sahni, who said the appointments to the tribunal should be made on a priority basis. “The tribunal in New Delhi is struggling to dispense justice, particularly in the absence of its chairman and three members out of sanctioned strength of four and acute shortage of administrative staff,” Mr. Sahni, represented by advocate Preeti Singh, said in his plea. “The very object for constituting tribunals is to supplement the functions of High Courts and other courts and to ensure that the consumer of justice gets speedy redress,” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/plea-seeks-appointment-of-pmla-tribunal-chief/article33700650.ece
30 January 2021||New Delhi,||Opposition flays President’s address||Opposition parties flayed President Ram Nath Kovind’s address on Friday, calling it a laundry list of the government. In his speech, the President said the three farm laws were passed after extensive deliberations. CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury called it a gross misrepresentation. “Such gross misrepresentation vindicates the decision to boycott this address,” Mr. Yechury tweeted. The Left MPs boycotting the President’s address had staged a protest march in front of Parliament on Friday morning. Mr. Yechury said the farm Acts were passed in a din, not allowing any discussion, negating voting and suspending MPs who demanded a vote. Congress MP Manish Tewari said the “ritual” of the President’s address should be done away with. “Time has come to do away with the Ritual of President’s address to joint sitting of both Houses of Parliament & Governor’s address to Vidhan Sabha’s. It is an inane recitation of a laundry list of Government’s alleged achievements. A sheer waste of precious Legislative time,” Mr. Tewari said in a tweet. His colleague in the Lok Sabha, Karti Chidambaram, said the address could not have been more prosaic. “Nothing that actually matters to the country was discussed today, aside from the same old laundry list of government talking points.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/opposition-flays-presidents-address/article33700657.ece
30 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Lockdown provided a boost to gig economy’||The lockdown gave a boost to the gig economy, while it had an “inevitable impact on the vulnerable and informal sector,” the Economic Survey for 2020-21 noted. “During the period of COVID-19 induced lockdown, the increasing role of the gig economy was evident with significant growth of online retail business,” it stated. Gig or platform workers had lacked basic rights and social security till the recent Code on Social Security was introduced. “COVID-19 has exposed the vulnerability of urban casual workers, who account for 11.2% of urban workforce (All-India) as per PLFS, January-March, 2020, a significant proportion of them are supposed to be migrants who were impacted by the lockdown,” the survey noted. “In order to incentivise more women to join the labour force, investment in institutional support to affordable and quality child care facilities, paid paternal leave, family-friendly work environment, and support for elderly care needs to be made” besides promoting non-discriminatory norms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/lockdown-provided-a-boost-to-gig-economy/article33700664.ece
30 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Focus on growth than on alleviating inequality’||India must keep its focus on economic growth, rather than trying to alleviate inequality, says the Economic Survey, arguing given India’s current stage of development, redistribution of wealth is not feasible without growing the overall pie. Unlike the developed world, in India, economic growth and inequality both have similar correlations with socio-economic indicators such as health, education, fertility rates, crime and drug usage. The Survey also draws on the Chinese experience to suggest in countries with high growth rates and high levels of absolute poverty, there is no trade-off between growth and inequality. It said questions regarding conflict between growth and inequality become more pertinent “especially because of the inevitable focus on inequality following the COVID-19 pandemic.” An Oxfam report had showed Indian billionaires increased their wealth by 35% during the lockdown at a time when a quarter of the country was earning less than Rs. 3,000 per month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/focus-on-growth-than-on-alleviating-inequality/article33700674.ece
30 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Increase ration shop prices of rice, wheat’||The Centre must increase the prices which 80 crore poor people pay for subsidised rice and wheat at ration shops to trim the ‘bulging’ food subsidy bill, the Economic Survey recommended on Friday. Under the National Food Security Act, ration cardholders are allowed to buy 5 kg of foodgrains per person each month at a subsidised rate of Rs. 2 per kg of wheat and Rs. 3 per kg of rice. This rate, known as the Central Issue Price (CI), has not been increased since the NFSA was enacted in 2013. However, the Food Corporation of India’s economic cost of buying and distributing foodgrains had surged since then. For wheat, the economic cost had risen from Rs. 19 per kg in 2013-14 to almost Rs. 27 per kg in 2020-21. For rice, the increase is from Rs. 26 per kg to Rs. 37 per kg. “While it is difficult to reduce the economic cost of food management in view of rising commitment towards food security, there is a need to consider the revision of CIP to reduce the bulging food subsidy bill,” said the Survey.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/increase-ration-shop-prices-of-rice-wheat/article33700675.ece
30 January 2021||Thrissur,||BJP meet discusses strategies for polls||The gold and dollar smuggling cases have put the government in a tight spot, Bharatiya Janata Party State president K. Surendran has said. Addressing a State committee meeting of the party here on Friday, he said the Chief Minister, four Ministers, and the Speaker would be in more trouble with the progress of the investigation. Many people with criminal background got special consideration in foreign countries through the protocol office. They included those involved in smuggling cases too, he added. The meeting was held to discuss strategies for the Assembly elections. State office-bearers, committee members, district presidents, and secretaries participated. Sobha Surendran was noticed for her absence. She allegedly stayed away from the meeting insisting that she will not participate unless her complaints were addressed by the party. She had earlier alleged that the State leadership was ignoring her. “The Left Democratic Front rule is mired in corruption. The Chief Minister who welcomed the investigation of Central agencies in the gold smuggling case initially started criticising them when his Principal Secretary was arrested,” Mr. Surendran alleged. He said now the Left Democratic Front was against the Comptroller and Auditor General as it questioned the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board. The government had pushed the State into a debt trap. Mr. Surendran said the government had failed in controlling the COVID-19 outbreak. People were reluctant to take vaccination in the State. The Health Department and the government had totally failed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kerala-bjp-panel-discusses-strategies-for-assembly-polls/article33701120.ece
30 January 2021||MALAPPURAM,||Orthodox metropolitans visit Panakkad house||Metropolitans of the Malankara Orthodox Syrian Church visited Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) leaders at Panakkad near here on Friday with an objective of trying to strengthen the bonds between the Muslim and Christian communities in the State. Metropolitans Geevarghese Mar Yulios and Yakob Mar Irenios reached IUML chairman Syed Hyderali Shihab Thangal’s house at Panakkad in the morning and held discussions with the Muslim League leaders. IUML general secretary P.K. Kunhalikutty, MP, State general secretary K.P.A. Majeed and district president Syed Sadikali Shihab Thangal joined the meeting. Syed Hyderali Thangal said it was a friendly visit by the metropolitans. The Church leaders said their visit was part of strengthening the cordial relations between the communities. They said deliberate attempts were being made from some political corners to create an impression of rift between the Christian and Muslim communities. They said none should be allowed to create communal divisions, especially during the election time. They said that they wanted to convey the message that there was no rift between the two communities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/orthodox-metropolitans-visit-panakkad-house/article33701164.ece
30 January 2021||January 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Amid clashes, fresh support pours in for farmers||A ‘mahapanchayat’ called by BKU president Naresh Tikait in U.P.’s Muzaffarnagar, it was decided that there would be no compromise with the dignity of farmers. Mr. Yadav said the battle of Ghazipur would prove to be Waterloo for [Prime Minister] Mr. Modi and [U.P. Chief Minister] Mr. Yogi. “In every major war there is a battle that turns everything around. And in this war of the farmers this battle of Ghazipur has turned everything around,” said Mr. Yadav. The leaders of Samyukt Kisan Morcha, a joint front of farmer unions, announced that they would observe January 30 as “Sadhbhawna Diwas” (Goodwill Day) and observe a day-long fast at all protest sites. They appealed to the public to join them. The announcement came at a press conference late in the evening. Farmers’ outfits in Punjab and Haryana also started mobilising fresh batches of farmers to reach the protest sites to ensure that the agitation doesn't fizzle out. Panchayats were also held in several parts of Haryana late on Thursday night expressing solidarity with the agitating farmers and vowing to continue their support to the movement. The unions claimed that farmers in Haryana took over the protest sites at Rohad, Sampla, Bastara and Panipat toll plazas a day after the local administration managed to get them vacated. At a khap panchayat in Haryana’s Rohtak called by Dadri MLA Sombir Sangwan, the representatives of around 150 khaps reiterated support to the movement and decided to send batches of 10,000 farmers each to the protest sites around Delhi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/amid-clashes-fresh-support-pours-in-for-farmers/article33700629.ece
30 January 2021||January 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Blast in Delhi: India reaches out to Israel||Late in the evening, the police recovered a letter from the spot addressed to the Israeli Embassy. The contents of the letter were not disclosed to the media. Investigating teams have also recovered ball bearings from the spot. Later in the evening, a statement from the Israeli Embassy said “relevant Israeli authorities” were in contact with officials in India regarding the incident. A team of Forensic Science Laboratory has collected evidence and an officer claimed that they had got some leads in the incident. Delhi police Additional PRO Anil Mittal said initial impressions suggested that it could be a mischievous attempt to create a sensation. “A very low-intensity improvised device went off at 5.05 p.m. No injury to any person was reported, nor was there any damage to property except the glass panes of three vehicles parked nearby,” Mr. Mittal said. Officials said they were scanning footage of CCTV cameras installed nearby to ascertain the sequence of events. The blast took place while the Beating Retreat ceremony was taking place at Rajpath.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-reassures-israel-after-blast-outside-embassy/article33700630.ece
30 January 2021||New Delhi,||Editors Guild flays FIRs against scribes||The Editors Guild of India has strongly condemned the BJP-ruled Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh governments for filing FIRs against senior editors and journalists for reporting on the farmers’ protest and the ensuing violence that took place in Delhi on January 26. It demanded that the FIRs be withdrawn immediately. The Guild statement refers to the specific incident of reporting the accounts pertaining to the death of one of the protesters on their personal social media handles as well as those of the publications they lead and represent. However, no journalist has been named in the statement. The death of Navreet Singh who, as per the police accounts, died after the tractor he was driving overturned, has become a point of contention. “It must be noted that on the day of the protest and high action, several reports were emerging from eyewitnesses on the ground as well as from the police, and, therefore, it was only natural for journalists to report all the details as they emerged. This is in line with established norms of journalistic practice,” the Guild said. It said the claim that the tweets were “intentionally malicious” was false. The Bengaluru City police too have registered an FIR against eight individuals including Congress MP Shashi Tharoor, senior journalists and editors Rajdeep Sardesai, Zafar Agha and Vinod K. Jose for sedition and promoting enmity between groups.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/editors-guild-flays-firs-against-scribes/article33700643.ece
30 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Simultaneous vaccination to begin in Feb.||The Union Health Ministry on Friday asked all States and Union Territories to initiate simultaneous vaccination of frontline and healthcare workers against COVID-19 from the first week of February. As on date, the database of more than 61 lakh frontline workers has been uploaded on the Co-WIN portal.  Adequate vaccines Vaccination of healthcare workers began on January 16 and Health Ministry Additional Secretary Manohar Agnani said in his letter that the database of frontline workers was being updated by the States and UTs. Adequate vaccines had been provided to the States/UTs, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/simultaneous-vaccination-to-begin-in-feb/article33700644.ece
30 January 2021||New Delhi,||Allow me to take paternity leave: TDP MP||Telugu Desam Party’s (TDP) Lok Sabha MP Ram Mohan Naidu has taken paternity leave from the Budget session of Parliament as he and his wife are expecting their first child. The two-time MP, in his leave application to Speaker Om Birla, said as a responsible husband and a soon-to-be father, he wished to be by his wife’s side. “I believe childcare should not solely be the responsibility of the mother. I look forward to being an equal contributor in the care and progress of our child,” the 33-year-old added. Parliamentarians do not have a fixed leave structure. The MPs have to inform the Lok Sabha Speaker or the Rajya Sabha Chairman. The leave application is then directed to a committee, Absence of Members from the sitting of the House, which decides on the request. “We need to talk about a father’s role in parenting. The more it becomes part of our daily discourse, the more it will get normalised. These discussions should be held at every workplace,” Mr. Naidu said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mp-seeks-paternity-leave-from-budget-session/article33700646.ece
30 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Amit Shah cancels West Bengal tour||Union Home Minister Amit Shah’s tour of poll-bound West Bengal scheduled for January 30-31 was cancelled late Friday evening. Mr. Shah was expected to fly in to Kolkata on Friday night for the trip which included public rallies and former Forest Minister of the State Rajib Banerjee joining the BJP. Sources in Mr. Shah’s office confirmed the same  . Mr. Shah is said to be keeping a close watch on developments with regard to protests by farmers against the three farm laws and the low intensity blast which took place close to the Israeli Embassy on Friday. The situation at various points on Delhi borders continued to remain tense on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/amit-shah-cancels-west-bengal-tour/article33700699.ece
30 January 2021||New Delhi,||15 obituary notices in RS on first day||On the first day of the Budget session of Parliament, 15 obituary notices were read in the Rajya Sabha by Chairman Venkaiah Naidu — three of them for sitting members, 11 former members and one for playback singer S.P. Balasubrahmanyam. Reading out an obituary reference to Ram Vilas Paswan, who passed away on October 8, Mr. Naidu said Paswan was a champion of the poor, downtrodden and dispossessed. “Soft-spoken and dignified in his conduct, he was known for his approachability and extending assistance to the needy and vulnerable, irrespective of their affiliations.” In his passing away, the country has lost an able administrator, a distinguished parliamentarian. Speaking about Congress leader Ahmed Patel, Mr. Naidu said he was a leader with mass appeal. “He was full of ceaseless energy and tremendous dynamism. Known for his fond and deeper connections with the grassroots-level political workers, Shri Patel played a key role in strengthening his party through his planning and strategies.” The third sitting member to pass away was BJP leader Abhay Bhardwaj. In his death, Mr. Naidu said, the country has lost an eminent lawyer and an able parliamentarian. The Chairman paid tributes to Congress leader Motilal Vohra. He reminded the members of how Vora used to tirelessly work even at his age. He not only used to attend the Upper House, but also actively participated in its proceedings. Mr. Naidu also paid condolences to the family of former member of the House, Jaswant Singh.  For S.P. Balasubrahmanyam, Mr. Naidu recalled the singer’s world record of singing 40,000 songs in 16 different languages — Tamil, Telugu, Kannada, Malayalam, Odia, Assamese, Marathi, Punjabi and Hindi. “The Telugu people in particular and the world of music in general will be indebted to him for unearthing fresh and latent singing talent through the popular programme Padutha Theeyaga , telecast on ETV for many years,” Mr. Naidu said. The other obituary references were read out for Syeda Anwara Taimurji, Rasheed Masood, Keshubhai S. Patel, Bhagirathi Majhi, Kailash Narain Sarang, Madhavsinh Solankiji, Kamal Morarkaji, B. S. Gnanadesikan and Ramji Lal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/15-obituary-notices-in-rs-on-first-day/article33700656.ece
30 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||A series of mini-Budgets, says Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday termed the current Budget session of Parliament that began during the day “the first of this decade” and an “opportunity to fulfil the dreams of freedom fighters”, even as Opposition parties boycotted President Ram Nath Kovind’s address to both Houses of Parliament on the three contentious farm laws. “The last year was also a year which saw not one but several mini-Budget-like packages announced as we dealt with the COVID-19 pandemic. This Budget is to be seen as part of that series of mini-Budgets presented by the government last year,” Mr. Modi said. The government would take every step to fulfil people’s expectations, he said, adding that he hoped that the MPs would direct their energy to this goal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/a-series-of-mini-budgets-says-pm/article33700660.ece
30 January 2021||New Delhi,||Chidambaram slams survey’s reform ‘claims’||Former Finance Minister P. Chidambaram on Friday slammed the government’s Economic Survey for showcasing the farm laws and the Labour Codes as part of structural reforms. “According to the Survey, the top three ‘structural reforms’ were the (1) anti farmer laws (2) the new MSME definition and (3) the four Labour Codes,” the opposition Congress leader tweeted. “The farmers have rejected the three Farm laws. The MSMEs have said that they had got no relief at all. The Trade Unions have, rejected the four Labour Codes! What is reform is what the people have rejected. It is the new definition of ‘reform’ and ‘democracy’,” he posted on his Twitter feed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/chidambaram-slams-surveys-reform-claims/article33700678.ece
30 January 2021||Hyderabad,||Raja Singh sentenced to one year jail||BJP MLA Raja Singh was sentenced to one year imprisonment on Friday by a special sessions court trying cases pertaining to MPs/MLAs here on the charge of assaulting a public servant and preventing him from discharging his duty in 2015. Mr. Singh said in a release here that the court granted him bail and gave him one month to file an appeal before the High Court. The MLA had been taken into preventive custody on December 10, 2015 on the issue of a ‘beef festival’ proposed to be organised in the Osmania University.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/raja-singh-sentenced-to-one-year-jail/article33701039.ece
30 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC bats for women officers||The Supreme Court on Friday urged the government to provide relief to women who served as officers in the Short Service Commission of the defence forces without dragging them into litigation before the Armed Forces Tribunal. “They are your own officers. They have served the Navy and the Army. Please try to sort it out with the authorities. Why push them into the litigation cycle again? They are in their years of retirement now,” a Bench led by Justice D.Y. Chandrachud addressed the government side led by Additional Solicitor General Sanjay Jain.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-bats-for-women-officers/article33700698.ece
30 January 2021||New Delhi,||SC seeks response from Assam NRC coordinator on Jamiat plea||The Supreme Court sought a response from Assam NRC coordinator Hitesh Dev Sarma on a plea by Jamiat Ulama-i-Hind and other parties challenging his move to delete names of ‘ineligible’ persons in the final list. A Bench led by Chief Justice of India Sharad A. Bobde issued formal notice to Mr. Sarma, which is returnable in four weeks. The court agreed to examine the issue after the parties deleted their prayer for contempt action against the official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-seeks-response-from-assam-nrc-coordinator-on-jamiat-plea/article33700893.ece
30 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Metro floats tenders for work on elevated line along OMR||Chennai Metro Rail Ltd. (CMRL) has floated tenders for building a 10-km elevated stretch from Sholinganallur to SIPCOT in Siruseri along the IT Expressway (OMR). The work is scheduled to be completed in three years. This line will have stations at Shollinganallur Lake, Sri Pooniamman Temple, Sathyabama University, St. Joseph’s College, Semmencheri, Gandhi Nagar, Navalur, Siruseri and SIPCOT 1 and 2. Before the COVID-19 pandemic, thousands of vehicles used to ply along this stretch, which has a concentration of IT companies and colleges. Peak hour traffic jams have become the norm in the area. CMRL officials do not want to delay the start of the work. “The idea is to wrap up the whole project within 6-7 years. We want to finish this stretch in three years. Since we know what mistakes we made in phase I, we are trying to avoid them in this project. We realise that this stretch may get a lot of patronage from the IT sector employees. In phase I project itself, a majority of the passengers belong to the IT sector,” an official said. At first, priority would be for Madhavaram-CMBT and Madhavaram-Taramani sections, which together cover 52 km. The work would be taken up with financial assistance from JICA. But, now the CMRL has been floating tenders to begin construction simultaneously at multiple locations across the city. The phase II project runs for 118.9 km with 128 stations. Daily commute on this stretch would be a challenge to the public for three years once the CMRL begins construction work. Unless efficient traffic management plans are put in place, commuters would have a tough time, road users say.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/metro-floats-tenders-for-work-on-elevated-line-along-omr/article33700814.ece
30 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Rs. 52,257-cr. investment proposals cleared||The Tamil Nadu Cabinet on Friday accorded approval for 34 major proposals for investments to the tune of Rs. 52,257 crore in the State. The Cabinet meeting, chaired by Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami at the Secretariat, also cleared the Tamil Nadu Industrial Policy 2021, which will be unveiled soon. The investments are likely to create over 93,000 jobs, according to an official release. “The incentive packages have been customised to suit the requirements of each investor,” it said. The government had entered into facilitation memoranda of understanding (MoUs) with some investors to enable them to undertake preliminary works. “Now, with the Cabinet approval, detailed legally binding MoUs will be executed,” the release said. Mobile phone parts While Tata Electronics will invest Rs. 5,763 crore to make mobile phone components and create 18,250 jobs in Krishnagiri, Pegatron Corporation, a Taiwanese mobile phone maker, would invest Rs. 1,100 crore in the first phase and create over 14,000 jobs in Chengalpattu. Luxshare of Taiwan would invest Rs. 745 crore and create 4,000 jobs. It would make electronic components and wearables in Sriperumbudur, “thus reviving the defunct Motorola factory”, the release said. Sun Edison will invest Rs. 4,629 crore and employ over 5,000 people to produce solar photo-voltaic modules. Ola Electric will invest Rs. 2,354 crore and create employment for 2,182 persons in the SIPCOT park at Bargur, Krishnagiri, for making electric vehicles and batteries. The release said German company Eickhoff Wind Ltd. will invest Rs. 621 crore and employ 319 persons to make gearboxes for wind energy production near Chennai. “This is a relocation of the company’s production facility from China and Germany,” the release said. Germany’s global chemical major BASF will invest Rs. 345 crore and create over 200 jobs to make auto-emission catalysts at Chengalpattu, while Lucas TVS will invest Rs. 2,500 crore and employ over 3,500 persons for manufacturing lithium-ion batteries in Tiruvallur district. Daicel Corporation of Japan will set up India’s first airbag inflator manufacturing unit at One Hub Chennai in Chengalpattu district with an investment of Rs. 358 crore. The project will create jobs for 180 persons. LS Automotive, a Korean company, will make automotive switches in Tiruvallur district with an investment of Rs. 250 crore, employing 200 persons, and Autoliv Inc., based in the U.S., will invest Rs. 100 crore and employ 400 persons to make passenger safety products (auto components) in the SIPCOT park at Cheyyar in Tiruvannamalai district. Data Patterns will invest Rs. 303.52 crore and create over 700 jobs in the Chennai node of the Tamil Nadu Defence Industrial Corridor to make defence- and aerospace-related products.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rs-52257-cr-investment-proposals-cleared/article33700808.ece
30 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State logs 509 infections and 6 fatalities||The State recorded 509 cases of COVID-19 on Friday, even as Ramanathapuram district saw no new case and five others — Perambalur, Tenkasi, Theni, Tirupattur and Villupuram — reported one infection each. A total of 24 districts recorded fewer than 10 cases each. A total of 148 persons tested positive for the infection in Chennai, 57 in Coimbatore and 48 in Chengalpattu. There were 28 cases in Tiruvallur, 21 each in Salem and Tiruppur and 20 in Erode. Those testing positive on Friday also included five returnees. The State’s tally reached 8,37,327. Another 531 persons were discharged after treatment. A total of 4,601 persons are presently under treatment for COVID-19 in the State. Six more persons succumbed to the infection. Chengalpattu, Chennai, Coimbatore, Salem, Thanjavur and Vellore reported one death each. A total of 52,520 samples were tested in the last 24 hours. Meanwhile, Aarthi Scans and Labs in Kovilpatti, Thoothukudi has been temporarily removed from the ICMR’s list of approved laboratories for COVID-19 testing. On the 14th day of vaccination, 8,659 persons were inoculated, taking the total number of persons immunised against COVID-19 so far to 97,126. As many as 8,484 persons received Covishield on Friday and 175 Covaxin.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-logs-509-infections-and-6-fatalities/article33700810.ece
30 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Three polls in five years, and no end to civic woes||Dr. Radhakrishnan Nagar, also known as R.K. Nagar, has seen three elections in just over five years, but many civic problems remain unresolved. Former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa was elected from the Assembly constituency during the 2015 byelection and the 2016 election. The Election Commission cancelled a byelection after her death. Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam leader T.T.V. Dhinakaran was elected to the Assembly from the constituency as an independent in the December 2017 byelection. In the run-up to that byelection, the “VIP constituency” turned into a massive festival zone, where Mr. Dhinakaran and the AIADMK were locked in a tussle of ego and prestige. But the constituency has since been ignored by the government and its elected representative, residents allege. The constituency encompasses mostly people in the lower income group. Primary among the demands of the residents are proper roads and a solution to the traffic congestion, caused by two railway level crossings, sometimes up to an hour. “In the last five years, ever since Jayalalithaa died, officials have not carried out any work. There are a number of slum board tenements here, but there is no maintenance. The roads are in a bad shape, and the Metro Rail work — we do not know when it will see the light of the day,” said Boopalan, joint secretary, Seniamman Koil Nagar Slum Board Tenements Welfare Association. A. Susai David, an auto driver, who has been a resident of New Washermanpet for nearly 37 years, said the bad condition of the roads leads to other problems, like frequent repairs to vehicles. “There are also power outages in the area; street lights do not work, and they are not even being maintained. We hope whoever comes to power will do something for us at least this time,” he said. Another resident said there were issues of law and order, and senior officials should tackle the increase in ganja selling in the area. P.B. Ramesh Raja runs a welding business. He has been a resident of the area since his birth 51 years ago. Mr. Raja said a solution to the level crossing issue should be the priority. “There is a heavy traffic in the area and due to the Metro Rail work, traffic piles up. Among other issues, the housing board flats, which were handed over only in 2018, are leaking. Almost 90% of the flats have water seepage. Officials inspect the flats and go away but nothing is being done,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-polls-in-five-years-and-no-end-to-civic-woes/article33700827.ece
30 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Pulse polio campaign aims at covering 70.26 lakh children||Tamil Nadu, which is entering the 17th polio-free year, is set to vaccinate 70.26 lakh children aged below five during the pulse polio immunisation campaign on January 31. According to a press release, 43,051 booths will be established at all primary health centres, government hospitals, Integrated Child Development Services centres, noon-meal centres, schools and other important places. The booths will function from 7 a.m. to 5 p.m. All children aged up to 5 will be given the vaccine. Transit booths will function in compliance with COVID-19 guidelines at major bus stands, railway stations, toll plazas, checkpoints and airports. Mobile teams will administer the drops to children living in remote, inaccessible and migrant areas. Children immunised recently under the routine schedule and the newborns should be given the oral polio vaccine. To identify the missed out children, marking is done for all vaccinated children on the left little finger. Private paediatricians and private hospitals will also administer the drops on the campaign day. The Health Department will also cover children of migrant workers. More than 3,000 government vehicles have been deployed and about two lakh personnel of the government departments and volunteers have been drafted. The campaign will be held in adherence to COVID-19 protocol and guidelines. It is mandatory to maintain physical distance, to wear masks and wash hands during the activity. Persons/children with fever/cough or other symptoms of COVID-19 should not be allowed inside the booth. Only one caregiver should accompany each beneficiary, said the release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pulse-polio-drive-aims-at-covering-7026-lakh-children-aged-below-5/article33700798.ece
30 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Pocso Act not intended to punish teenagers in romantic relationship’||The Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act of 2012 is not intended to bring within its ambit the romantic relationships between adolescents or teenagers. Yet, many youngsters are getting prosecuted under the law. It is high time that the Act is amended appropriately, the Madras High Court has said. Justice N. Anand Venkatesh said several cases booked under the stringent Pocso Act fell under the category of elopement of teenagers. However, as a consequence of police complaints lodged by the family members of the girls, the boys get arrested invariably and thereafter their youthful life comes to a grinding halt.  “An adolescent boy caught in a situation like this will surely have no defence if the criminal case is taken to its logical end. Punishing an adolescent boy who enters into a relationship with a minor girl by treating him as an offender was never the objective of the Pocso Act,” the judge said. He hoped that the legislature would take note of the situation. Quoting from American professor Jeffrey Arnett’s book Adolescence and Emerging Childhood , the judge said adolescence was associated with many psychosocial and developmental challenges including the processing of intense emotions and first loves. It was also essential to acknowledge the vast exposure to digital content which influences the youth. Pausing for a moment, Justice Venkatesh clarified that he was neither turning a blind eye to cases where the victim might, under the effect of trauma, convince herself that an element of consent was present nor scientifically justifying the accused in every case. “That will depend on the facts and circumstances of each and every case,” he said. In the present case before him, the judge pointed out that the victim girl herself had filed a memo stating that it was she who forced the accused, in his early twenties, to elope with her in 2018 though he was not inclined to do so. Now, her parents too were not interested in prosecuting the case since it was a stumbling block in getting her married. After examining the legal possibility of quashing a case booked under non compoundable offences, the judge held that it could be done since the offences were purely individual/personal in nature. “It involves the future of two young persons who are still in their early twenties… Quashing the proceedings will not affect any overriding public interest,” the judge concluded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/amend-pocso-act-hc/article33700841.ece
30 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Governor lauds Mahaveer awardees||“The forces of modern culture are sweeping across the globe and upsetting our traditions, values and attitudes. “It is imperative that we do not lose the core values of our culture, namely, non-violence, peace and harmonious living and helping the needy,” said Governor Banwarilal Purohit. He was speaking at the Mahaveer Awards for excellence in human endeavour in their chosen fields event organised by Bhagwan Mahaveer Foundation in the city on Friday. He said that such awards will encourage many others to emulate such selfless service. The Governor lauded the awardees, in various categories like women social entrepreneur, education, non-violence and vegetarianism, medicine, community and social service, including Federation of Indian Animal Protection organisation, New Delhi, Baba Palla Singh Goushala, Punjab, Shree Panchmahal Anusuchit Jati Education Trust (PAJET), Manav Kalyan Trust, Gujarat, Anand Kumar, founder of ‘Super 30”, Shyamalatha Mohan Raj, Jeevodaya Hospice for Cancer Patients in Chennai, Pain and Palliative Care Society, Kozhikode, Gramin Adiwasi Samaj Vikas Sansthan, Madhya Pradesh and Sewadham Ashram, Madhya Pradesh. Powerful role models “The recipients of the awards this evening are powerful role models for our society. They are a blend of social commitment and compassion. I am grateful for their services to the weak and underprivileged in our society. I congratulate the award winners and I am sure that many more will be inspired to follow them in their quest to serve society with selflessness,” he added. D.R. Mehta, former chairman, Securities and Exchange Board of India, S. Gurumurthy, Editor, Thuglaq , T.S. Krishnamurthy, former Chief Election Commissioner of India, and Prasanchand Jain, Managing Trustee, Bhagwan Mahaveer Foundation and other dignitaries participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/governor-lauds-mahaveer-award-winners/article33700817.ece
30 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM chairs meeting of Collectors on COVID-19||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Friday chaired a video-conference of collectors to review the COVID-19 situation in Tamil Nadu. He also held a virtual meeting with public health and medical experts. An official release said he instructed the officials to ensure immediate draining of water stagnated in rural and urban areas owing to the recent rain. “It should not lead to [mosquito breeding and] dengue menace because it would lead to a situation wherein it would difficult to ascertain whether fever was a symptom of COVID-19 or dengue. Disinfectants should be used frequently...,” he said. Mr. Palaniswami said the weekly public grievances redressal meetings, usually held on Mondays by the collectors, could be resumed (These meetings were suspended after the pandemic broke out). The district administration and the Education Department should coordinate to ensure that there is no spread of COVID-19 among school students attending in-person classes, he said. Thanks to the review meetings held by the government, involving the district administration and the Health Department, the spread of COVID-19 has mostly been controlled, he said. “These efforts have resulted in some districts reporting not even a single case,” he said. He also instructed collectors to distribute long-pending house pattas to applicants immediately. Officials were asked to speed up the process to assess the losses suffered by farmers in the recent cyclones. Report handed over The Special Investment Promotion Task Force (SIPTF), constituted by the State government to attract investments from countries looking to relocate their supply chains to India due to COVID-19, submitted its report to Mr. Palaniswami, in the Secretariat. Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam, who led the SIPTF, handed over the report to Mr. Palaniswami. Industries Secretary N. Muruganandam and Special Secretary in the Industries Department V. Arun Roy were present. The Terms of Reference of the committee included identifying sectors in which Tamil Nadu could attract investments and formulating special incentive packages and facilitations, necessary to attract them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-chairs-meeting-of-collectors-on-covid-19/article33700803.ece
30 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Frontline workers of other departments, mediapersons to get vaccine from Feb. 1||From February 1, the front-line workers of government departments other than health, such as police, local administration and revenue, as well as mediapersons, will receive the COVID-19 vaccines, Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar said on Friday. “A total of 1.55 lakh persons of the Police Department, 1.07 lakh persons of the Department of Local Administration and 1.20 lakh persons of the Department of Revenue have registered themselves for the vaccination,” he told reporters. He requested the frontline workers of the Health Department to come forward to get vaccinated by then. The Department had already registered six lakh frontline workers and started vaccination on January 16. Dr. Vijayabaskar said the State has so far received 12,34,920 doses of Covishield and Covaxin. So far, nearly 97,000 persons had been vaccinated. “While we are empanelling big private hospitals, doctors, nurses, paramedical workers and front-line workers of small hospitals can take the vaccines from the regional vaccine centres. We have decided to empanel nearly 200 small private hospitals,” he said. The Chief Minister held a meeting with the Collectors and medical experts on Friday. “All have appreciated Tamil Nadu for having done very well in controlling COVID-19 at the global level. WHO Chief Scientist Soumya Swaminathan appreciated Tamil Nadu’s excellent work... Countries in Europe are facing the next wave of infections and are under lockdown. Tamil Nadu is recording nearly 500 cases a day, and we have reduced the rate of mortality to a great extent,” he said. The Minister said the government would consider the demand of Rajah Muthiah Medical College students for fixing the government fees for them. The demand of nurses appointed through the Medical Services Recruitment Board for regularisation of their services would also be considered. So far, 792 mini-clinics were opened. The Health Department had created 6,000 new posts for doctors, nurses and workers, he said. Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan and Director of Public Health and Preventive Medicine T. S. Selvavinayagam were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/frontline-workers-of-other-departments-mediapersons-to-get-vaccine-from-feb-1/article33700805.ece
30 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Mop-up round for vacant MBBS, BDS seats begins today||The selection committee of the Directorate of Medical Education will hold counselling for lapsed seats in MBBS and BDS on Saturday and Sunday. As per the committee’s website, there are four vacancies in government medical colleges as of 4 p.m. on Friday. These include one in Kilpauk Medical College in the city and three in the Rajah Muthiah Medical College. One seat has been reserved in Vellore Medical College as a writ petition has been filed in the court. As many as 15 seats are vacant in self-financing medical colleges, with five seats vacant in Tagore Medical College and three seats in the newly established Indira Medical College in Tiruvallur. Two seats are vacant in Panimalar Medical College and one each in Muthukumaran and Madha medical colleges in Chennai; Dhanalakshmi Srinivasan Medical College in Perambalur; Karpagam Faculty of Medical Sciences in Coimbatore. The Government Dental College has one vacant seat and Rajah Muthiah Dental College has 10 seats. There are 102 vacancies in self-financing dental colleges. The merit list for those who have applied newly for the NRI lapsed MBBS seats will be released on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mop-up-round-for-mbbs-bds-seats-begins/article33700958.ece
30 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Birdwatchers scan sanctuaries, backyards for avian life||At the end of the Pongal bird count in and around the city, birders have found avian life not just in sanctuaries, but also around smaller waterbodies and in backyards. The Pongal bird count has been taking place in the State since 2015, and is based on the model of the Christmas bird count held in the western countries. It is conducted mainly to encourage people to go around waterbodies near their residences, said P. Jeganathan of the Tamil Birders’ Network. He is also the co-ordinator of the Pongal Bird Count. People can upload their lists on e-bird. It is a citizen science activity that takes place for four days. Over the years, the statistics have given an idea of the population and habitats of birds, he said. Every year, the responses have been tremendous, and this year, many people did the activity from their homes. The compilation is on and the final list could take some time, he added. During the count, Nature Trust volunteers spotted the Bar-headed Goose and the Eurasian Oystercatcher, both rare, in the Andhra side and the Tamil Nadu side of the Pulicat respectively. Bar-tailed Godwits and Great Knots were also seen along with many waders. In Pallikaranai, 182 species of birds have been recorded, despite constraints, and the bird count is estimated at over 40,000. Gadwall, which was first noticed in south India in 2018, has been regularly visiting Pallikaranai for four years, said K.V.R.K. Thirunaranan, founder, Nature Trust. Another feature the birders have noticed is of Melmaruvathur becoming a successful habitat, with pelicans nesting in large numbers. The delay in the Vedanthangal bird sanctuary realising enough water has forced the pelicans to change their habitat to Melmaruvathur and the temple administration has provided the required facilities, they said. Vedanthangal has 26 species, but the number of birds is less compared to five years ago. “About 60,000 birds used to visit, but the numbers have dwindled to under 20,000 now,” said a regular birder. Karikili, a very old sanctuary and a paradise for wild ducks, and which has also gradually faded from the conservation map, is slowly regaining its habitat. This year, about 1,500 Northern pintails visited the sanctuary. Another birding hotspot in the Tiruporur forest range is the Kelambakkam-Kovalam creek that has Eeurosian curlews, Whimbrels and Ruddy Turnstone as visitors. Greater Flamingos, Pelicans and Painted Storks can also be seen here. “Not just birding, habitats are also important. It can be a backyard or a sanctuary, and birders should note the threats to the eco-systems and help sustain these habitats. This helps in conservation,” said Mr. Thirunaranan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/birdwatchers-scan-sanctuaries-backyards-for-avian-life/article33701195.ece
30 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Aptel sets aside TNERC’s 2018 wind tariff order||The Appellate Tribunal for Electricity (Aptel), New Delhi has set side wind tariff order issued by Tamil Nadu Electricity Regulatory Commission (TNERC) in 2018, which imposed restrictions on use of power banking facility and increased many other charges. In the tariff order issued on April 2018, TNERC had restricted the use of banking facility for one month for wind projects commissioned on or after April 1, 2018. For projected commissioned on or before March 2018, the banking facility was allowed to continue for 12 months. The banking facility allowed captive wind power generators to sell surplus power to distribution companies. Through the facility, wind power producers feed the electricity generated by their windmills into the State grid and draw the power for captive use within the banking period. In its 2018 tariff order, the TNERC also increased the banking charges from 12% to 14% and also withdrew the banking facility for all wind energy stations selling power to third party. It also effected an increase in cross subsidy surcharge from 50% to 60%, while the wheeling and transmission charges were increased to 50% from 40% of what was applicable for conventional power. The TNERC had fixed fee-in-tariff at Rs. 2.86 per unit without accelerated depreciation (AD) and Rs. 2.80 with AD for sale of power to the State utility and also reduced the delayed payment levy to 1% interest from 1.5%. In the present case, Tangedco had moved Aptel against TNERC allowing the banking facility to continue for existing captive projects, while Tamil Nadu Spinning Mills Association, Indian Wind Power Association, Watsun Infrabuild Pvt. Ltd were aggrieved by the restrictions on banking facility for future projects and also increase in charges. Aptel noted that several State Commissions have been struggling to find fair and equitable solutions to the vexed issues arising from power banking and said ad hoc approach is more to blame for such state of affairs. “The Regulations framed by TNERC [which have the force of law] do envisage banking facility. While we are very clear in our mind that so long as the preferential treatment for renewable sources of electricity is mandated by law and public policy, the benefit of power banking cannot be taken or wished away,” it added. Aptel also requested the Central government to call upon the Central Electricity Authority to undertake the necessary study and recommend fair and equitable solutions on the issue, balancing the interest of all stakeholders. It also said orders on the issue prevailing before the 2018 order shall stand restored and TNERC shall ensure all necessary consequential orders are passed and its directions are scrupulously complied with by all concerned. Aptel directed that the State Commission shall not bring about changes in the rules for power banking by any further order without undertaking a study based on data.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aptel-sets-aside-tnercs-2018-wind-tariff-order-restricting-power-banking-facility/article33700843.ece
30 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stalin promises separate cell to deal with people’s petitions||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Friday said once elected to power, his government would wipe out the sufferings that every individual faced during the AIADMK government and invest thousands of crores of rupees to create new industries.  Launching Ungal thoguthiyil Stalin (Stalin in your constituency), the DMK leader’s State-wide outreach programme in Tiruvannamalai ahead of the Assembly election, he said all sectors in the State had suffered a serious setback in the 10-year rule of the AIADMK. People had also lost their peace of mind, he said. ‘Basic amenities’ “There are no schemes. Even constituencies of the Chief Minister, the Deputy Chief Minister and others Ministers lack basic amenities,” he said. Mr. Stalin, who received petitions from local residents highlighting their problems, said they had reposed faith in the DMK. He promised to fulfil their demands. “It will be a people’s government and it will take care of their welfare. You have left your burdens on my back with the hope that the DMK will form the government. Yes, certainly it will form the government,” he said. Mr. Stalin said he would open the box of petitions the day after he takes oath as the Chief Minister (when elected). “A separate cell will be created to deal with the petitions and address people’s problems,” he said. Recalling various schemes unveiled by the previous DMK regimes for the betterment of people on the fringes of society, weavers, farmers and government employees, Mr. Stalin said industries in and around Chennai were proof of his contribution to industrial development. “In a similar manner, problems of the people will be addressed in 100 days,” he said. ‘With the people’ Mr. Stalin said Kalaignar [M. Karunanidhi], as a Chief Minister, had accorded priority to resolving people’s problems and had rushed to Red Hills, past midnight, in 1999 when the bund of a lake developed a breach. “I was the Mayor of Chennai and it was feared that the city would be flooded. He rushed to Fort St. George and geared up the entire administrative machinery and the preparations saved Chennai,” he said. Mr. Stalin said he learned the concept of being with people when they were in trouble from his late father.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stalin-promises-separate-cell-to-deal-with-peoples-petitions/article33700834.ece
30 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chennai Corporation begins registration of e-vehicles||Pedestrians and motorists hit by e-vehicles used for garbage clearance will get insurance coverage. Greater Chennai Corporation officials said the civic body had started the registration of over 3,800 e-vehicles that have been used for solid waste management in the city. The registration will facilitate insurance coverage for pedestrians and motorists hit by the vehicles. “All the e-vehicles will be registered. We will make arrangements for compensation of pedestrians injured by e-vehicles during garbage collection,” said N. Mahesan, Chief Engineer of the Corporation. At present, there is no third party insurance for these vehicles. At least 3,000 battery operated vehicles are used by private conservancy operator Urbaser Sumeet in the southern southern zones such as Sholinganallur, Perungudi, Adyar, Kodambakkam, Teynampet, Alandur and Valasaravakkam. Another private conservancy operator, Ramky, will also use e-vehicles in most of the streets in zones such as Tiruvottiyur, Manali, Madhavaram and Ambattur from February 26. The Corporation has procured e-vehicles for zones such as Anna Nagar, Royapuram, Thiru. Vi. Ka. Nagar and Tondiarpet. In a few weeks, at least 5,000 e-vehicles will collect garbage from the households on 40,000 streets in the 15 zones of the city. The Corporation is constituting a committee of experts on contract basis for the solid waste management cell.  We will make arrangements for compensation of pedestrians injured by e-vehicles during garbage collection||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gcc-begins-registration-of-e-vehicles/article33701179.ece
30 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Nurses want services regularised||Nurses recruited through the Medical Services Recruitment Board (MRB) staged a protest on Friday, demanding that the government regularise their services. N. Subin, general secretary of the Tamil Nadu MRB Nurses’ Empowerment Association, said the State government had recruited 14,000 nurses through MRB since 2015. “Nurses are first recruited on a two-year contract on the basis of merit through an examination. The government says that the nurses will be absorbed under the regular timescale after two years, but this has not been done. Till date, only 2,000 nurses have been regularised,” he said. Court order According to him, the State government has also not implemented a court order to grant them “equal pay for equal work”. “When we joined, our monthly salary was Rs. 7,500. In 2017, following a protest, the government raised the pay to Rs. 14,000. But it has not implemented equal pay for equal work. As per this, we should get Rs. 42,000, on a par with staff nurses,” he said. Meanwhile, members of the Tamil Nadu Government Nurses’ Associations wore black badges to work to draw the attention of the government to their charter of demands. They demanded pay on a par with Central government nurses, one-month special pay that was announced by the government for COVID-19 duty, ex-gratia for nurses affected by COVID-19, and solatium and government jobs for families of nurses who died.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nurses-want-regularisation-of-services/article33700839.ece
30 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM seeks release of Rajiv case convicts||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami called on Governor Banwarilal Purohit in the Raj Bhavan on Friday and submitted a representation seeking the release of all the seven convicts in the Rajiv Gandhi assassination case. Speaking to reporters, Fisheries Minister D. Jayakumar, who accompanied the Chief Minister, said Mr. Palaniswami handed over a representation to the Governor requesting him to take a favourable decision over the issue. “The Chief Minister said it was the collective sentiment of the people of Tamil Nadu to release them,” Mr. Jayakumar added. On behalf of the State government and on behalf of the AIADMK, the request was reiterated, he said. “The Governor listened to the Chief Minister, read through the representation and said he would take an appropriate decision,” he added. Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam and Secretaries to the Chief Minister were also present. The meeting comes a few days ahead of the Assembly session, which is scheduled to commence on February 2 with the Governor's address.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-seeks-release-of-rajiv-case-convicts/article33700830.ece
30 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||A.R. Rahman presented ‘Alert Being Icon Award’||From providing medication and nutritious food to organising a baby shower, Leo Akash Raj has helped over 350 pregnant HIV positive women, differently abled, widows and those from the economically weaker section. This young man, whose wishes to see an infant death-free nation, was given an award at the fourth edition of “Alert Being Awards” by ALERT, a voluntary non-profit organisation working to ensure “Right to life” a reality in India. Another award-winner Hari Krishnan from Saidapet adopted 250 families during COVID-19 and helped them with the money he had saved for his wedding. Fourteen such people from various walks of life were honoured at the event in the presence of Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan and Commissioner of Police Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal. Oscar Award-winning music director A.R. Rahman was chosen for the “Alert Being Icon Award”. The Alert Being Icon Award for an organisation was presented to the Biocon Foundation founded by Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw. In his video message, Mr. Rahman said ALERT had been doing a brilliant job in empowering a common man to save lives. “I look forward to being part of ALERT’s noble mission to save lives.” Thirty COVID-19 warriors were honoured with Alert Being Covid Frontline Warrior for their contribution during the pandemic. Alert Being Awards 2020 received 156 nominations from 15 States and 35 districts across India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ar-rahman-presented-alert-being-icon-award/article33700824.ece
30 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Metro’s north line inspection put off||The final inspection of Metro Rail’s phase I extension project has been postponed, sources said. The Commissioner of Metro Rail Safety (CMRS), who had to give final clearance and certify the 9-km stretch from Washermenpet to Wimco Nagar for safety, was scheduled to inspect the line from January 31 to February 3. The final signalling safety certificate has been delayed by the contractor in the last minute which caused the postponement of the inspection, sources said. The certificate had to be given on Friday but the contractor has informed Chennai Metro Rail Ltd. that it would be delivered only on February 3. Without this, inspection cannot be taken up. “We were prepared with everything for the inspection. It is unfortunate that the contractor had to inform us in the last minute. Now, the inspection may happen from February 5 to 7,” a source said. Meanwhile, the construction of stations is reaching final stages, sources said. “Barring one station, the construction of all others will be completed on time. The work is on round the clock,” another source said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/metros-north-line-inspection-put-off/article33700815.ece
30 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.G. Narayanan Endowment lecture||The T.G. Narayanan Endowment Lecture organised by the English Department (aided), Madras Christian College, will be delivered by novelist, poet and philanthropist Chitra Banerjee Divakaruni on Saturday. Ms. Divakaruni, who is also a professor of creative writing at the University of Houston, will speak on “Bridging barriers through literary texts”. The lecture will be delivered online at 9 a.m. and will be livestreamed on the 'Department of English MCC' Youtube Channel onhttps://www.youtube.com/ watch?v=pFk52kiqV0w &feature=youtu.be.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tg-narayanan-endowment-lecture/article33700823.ece
30 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘India Inc. has a long way to go for gender diversity’||Although there has been a shift towards ensuring gender equality at work, India Inc. still has a long way to go, Abanti Sankaranarayanan, chief strategy and corporate affairs officer, Diageo India, said. “India Inc. is willing to fix the gender diversity problem. A lot of attention and thinking on the issue has been going on in board rooms of progressive companies,” she said. Ms. Abanti was delivering the Raghu Pillai Memorial Lecture, organised by Coaching Foundation India Ltd. (CFI) and the Madras Management Association, as a part of national conclave on “Women in leadership- future perspectives”. Ms. Abanti pointed out that the contribution of women to India’s GDP was only 18%, the second lowest among developing countries, when compared to 41% in China. She said women had just 4% representation in senior management, while it was 11% in the board level.  Various measures She suggested measures like making diversity a visible business priority for the CEO and the executive leadership and having a target in terms of the share of women in the workforce for achieving gender diversity at the workplace. CFI honoured Nirmala Menon, founder and CEO, Interwave Consulting, by admitting her as an Honorary Fellow. It presented a citation of honour to five of its senior coaches for their contribution towards SheLeads, a flagship women leadership programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/india-inc-has-a-long-way-to-go-for-gender-diversity/article33700835.ece
30 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Activist wants disability awards announced||The decision to postpone the announcement of national awards has upset persons with disabilities. The Department of Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities had invited applications for the awards on July 25, last year. It had also scheduled a meeting of the national selection committee on December 1. However, the department later put out a notice on December 5 that the meeting had been postponed due to the pandemic. The department falls under the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment. C. Govindakrishnan, founder of Nethrodaya, an institution for the welfare of persons with disability, said it was a violation of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act of 2016. “The Union government had continued its practice of announcing the Padma awards even during the pandemic. Yet when it comes to us the pandemic has been cited as the reason,” he said. Condemning the “step-motherly attitude” of the Union government, he said the community was not treated on a par with persons without disability.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/activist-wants-disability-awards-announced/article33701294.ece
30 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||3 held for selling ganja||Three persons were arrested for supplying ganja to college students in Royapettah police station limits. The police received information about a youth frequenting a lodge in a suspicious manner. A special team mounted surveillance on three persons staying in the lodge. The police intercepted them on V.M. Road and found them possessing ganja packets. About 10 kg of ganja was recovered from them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/3-held-for-selling-ganja/article33701295.ece
30 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Rotary Club, Freshworks donate equipment to VHS||The Rotary Club of Madras East joined hands with Freshworks and donated critical care equipment to the Voluntary Health Services (VHS). The equipment, estimated at Rs. 5 lakh, will help their COVID-19 care facilities and this project, which was initiated by the Rotary Club of Madras East and is funded by Freshworks. Murugavel Selvan, club president, expressed his gratitude to the donor as well as VHS for their service.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rotary-club-freshworks-donate-equipment-to-vhs/article33700822.ece
30 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Vintage car, bike show tomorrow||The Madras Heritage Motoring Club is organising a vintage and classic car and bike drive from Chennai to Mamallapuram on January 31. The vintage cars will first assemble for display at Bala Vidya Mandir, Adyar, from 8 a.m. to 9.30 a.m. C.K. Ranganathan, chairman and managing director, Cavinkare, will flag off the drive. The vehicles will then head to Dakshinachitra for a brief display and will proceed to Welcomhotel Kences Palm Beach, Mamallapuram, for display. Replicas of Mercedes and Ford Quadricycle and 30 cars and bikes, ranging from the 20s to the 70s, including Rolls Royce, Austin and Dodge Brothers, will be on display.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vintage-car-bike-show-tomorrow/article33700816.ece
30 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Call for women entrepreneurs||Golden Jubilee Biotech Park for Women Society, Siruseri, Chennai, which has been provided capital for a seed fund to be deployed as equity into new technology enterprises of women, has invited proposals from women entrepreneurs. Women from across the country, who hold 51% or more equity in a private company incorporated in India as a start-up can apply, according to a statement. Start-ups need to be working in the field of cutting-edge technologies such as biotechnology and MedTech, among others, and must have proof of the concept ready, it added. The Application form can be downloaded athttps://www. biotechpark.co.in/seed-fund.htm||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/call-for-women-entrepreneurs/article33700836.ece
30 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||IOCL, CPCL donate Rs. 3.12 crore for T.N.’s vaccine drive||Indian Oil Corporation Limited and Chennai Petroleum Corporation Limited (CPCL) have donated Rs. 3.12 crore for the COVID-19 vaccination programme of the State government as part of their corporate social responsibility initiative. The funds will be used to procure ice-lined refrigerators, deep freezers, walk-in coolers and refrigerated trucks for the transportation and storage of the COVID-19 vaccines. MoU signed P. Jayadevan, Executive Director and State Head, IOCL signed an memorandum of understanding with J. Radhakrishnan, Secretary, Department of Health and Family Welfare, towards this initiative.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/iocl-cpcl-donate-rs-312-crore-for-tns-vaccine-drive/article33701006.ece
30 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC stays order to surrender Veda Nilayam keys in court||The first Division Bench of the Madras High Court on Friday stayed the operation of an order passed by a single judge on Wednesday directing the State government to surrender with the Registrar General of the court the keys of former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa’s Poes Garden residence ‘Veda Nilayam’, which had been converted into a memorial since Thursday. Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy granted the interim stay after Advocate General Vijay Narayan pointed out to the court that the property was never in possession of the legal heirs J. Deepa and J. Deepak, the niece and nephew of Jayalalithaa. He said the government had acquired it in accordance with law. Filing an appeal against the single judge’s order, the State contended that keys of ‘Veda Nilayam’ had been in the custody of the Collector of Chennai for long and hence there was no necessity to disturb such a status quo. The single judge’s order was passed on writ petitions preferred by the legal heirs, who had challenged the acquisition proceedings and the award of Rs. 67 crore. Mr. Narayan said Ms. Deepa and Ms. Deepak were declared legal heirs when the acquisition proceedings were halfway through. Nevertheless, the government had given them sufficient opportunity to present their objections to the acquisition, considered those objections and then arrived at a decision that the acquisition was absolutely necessary in public interest. After hearing theAdvocate General and Additional Advocate General S.R. Rajagopal, the Division Bench ordered issuance of notices, that were returnable by Wednesday, to the legal heirs on the appeals preferred by the State. It was made clear that the other portions of the single judge’s order with respect to not opening the memorial for public view and not letting anyone inside the building would be in force until further orders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-division-bench-stays-order-to-surrender-veda-nilayam-keys/article33700832.ece
30 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Vaiko criticises use of English in Namma Chennai Selfie Spot||MDMK general secretary Vaiko on Friday took exception to the use of English at the ‘Namma Chennai’ selfie spot on the Marina, saying it was an insult to Tamil. The selfie spot had an installation with the word ‘Namma’ in Tamil and ‘Chennai’ in English. “It should not be in Tanglish—a collage of Tamil and English,” he said. Mr. Vaiko said while the spot was expected to be an important identity of Chennai, the government should not allow corruption of language in the name of changing with times.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaiko-slams-use-of-english-at-selfie-spot/article33700828.ece
30 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||TNTA appeal to CM||The Tamil Nadu Teachers Association has appealed to the government to offer marks to candidates who have experience in teaching in schools while recruiting teachers for government colleges. The Teachers Recruitment Board had announced filling up of vacancies in government arts and science colleges and many teachers who were teaching in schools have also applied for these posts, said P.K. Ilamaran, association president. “On January 21, the Board began scrutiny of certificates. It has allocated 15 marks for teaching experience, nine for higher education and 10 for performance in interview. The Board has taken teaching experience in colleges for the process. We want it to consider teaching in schools as an experience,” he said in his appeal to Chief Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tnta-appeal-to-cm/article33701304.ece
30 January 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Coming together of farmers has helped, says award-winning FPO||Velliangiri Uzhavan Farmer Producer Company Ltd. that recently won the ‘Best Performing Farmer Producer Company-Governance’ award said the coming together of farmers had helped its members as well as others. The company received the award from Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami at the Republic Day function held in Chennai. The company’s chairman D. Kumar said that in the last eight years it had increased its turnover from Rs. 45,000 to Rs. 12 crore by sending vegetables, coconut and other produce to different parts of the country and abroad as well. The company had also helped farmers drip irrigate their fields, set up a vegetable sorting and grading centre in Booluvampatti and promote organic farming as well. S.P. Velumani, one of the directors, said the coming together of farmers had helped them negotiate coconut price with traders, prevail upon them to agree to buy coconut based on weight and also negotiate with farm labourers to fix the cost of de-husking and harvesting coconuts. In the process, farmers in and around Thondamuthur, who were not the members of the company, had also benefited, added R. Venkat Rasa, coordinator. Mr. Kumar said the farmers came together to form the company with support from Isha Foundation, which had helped in every stage of the process. After forming the company and gaining experience, the company was helping farmers in other parts of the district come together to float similar farmers’ producer organisations. Another, benefit that the farmers in and around Thondamuthur had gained because of the company was that they were getting trained in organic farming as well, added A. Vel Mylsamy, another director. The company said it received the ‘Best FPO’ award last year from Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coming-together-of-farmers-has-helped-says-award-winning-fpo/article33700846.ece
30 January 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||One death, 57 new cases in Coimbatore district||Coimbatore district reported one death and 57 new COVID-19 cases on Friday, taking the overall tally to 54,282. A 47-year-old man who was under treatment for the disease died, and the district’s toll rose to 671, the Health Department said. The district at present has 429 active cases. Fifty-three patients were discharged from various treatment centres in the district on Friday. Tiruppur district reported 21 fresh cases, and the overall tally rose to 17,850. No deaths were reported in the district. As many as 17,452 patients have recovered and 177 were active cases. On Friday, 23 patients were discharged from various treatment centres. Twelve persons tested positive for the disease in the Nilgiris on Friday. With the latest infections, the total number of confirmed COVID-19 cases in the district stood at 8,199. Sixty-five persons are under treatment. Salem district reported 21 new cases, all indigenous, and one death. Erode district reported 20 new cases and Namakkal six cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/one-death-57-new-cases-in-coimbatore-district/article33700859.ece
30 January 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Anganwadi workers seek government employee status||A large number of anganwadi workers and assistants from the district staged a demonstration outside the District Collectorate here on Friday seeking recognition as government employees.  A release said that the members of Tamil Nadu Anganwadi Workers and Assistants Association took out a rally and staged a dharna outside the Collectorate. The Association’s district secretary Shanthi led the demonstration on Friday. Pension sought The protesters also demanded time-bound salaries, adequate pension, and retirement benefit of Rs. 10 lakh for workers and Rs. 5 lakh for assistants, according to the release. Members of the Tamil Nadu Anganwadi Workers and Assistants Association will stage a demonstration in Chennai on February 5 and will submit petitions to Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami listing their demands, according to the release. In Tiruppur, the anganwadi workers and assistants staged a demonstration outside the Tiruppur Corporation office on Mangalam Road on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/anganwadi-workers-seek-government-employee-status/article33700856.ece
30 January 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Contract conservancy workers allege irregularities in disbursement of wages||Members of the contract conservancy workers’ union affiliated to the CITU staged a protest here on Friday alleging irregularities in disbursement of wages to those working for the Coimbatore Corporation. Daily wages Though Rs. 614 a day was fixed as wages for the workers in 2017 and a government order was issued, the 3,000-odd workers working in Corporation were getting only Rs. 318. The district administration should look into the issue, ensure disbursement of proper wages and the Coimbatore Corporation should look at regularising the services of those who had worked for at least 10 years as permanent workers. The protesting workers also demanded disbursement of retirement benefits to conservancy workers who had retired in the recent past. The workers led by the union district secretary K. Rathinakumar also demanded special wages for those who had worked to contain COVID-19 spread during lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/contract-conservancy-workers-allege-irregularities-in-disbursement-of-wages/article33700853.ece
30 January 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Minor girl found dead||A 15-year-old girl studying in Class IX at a government school near Valparai allegedly ended her life on Thursday. The girl was found dead in the house by her mother. Kottur police have registered a case and further investigations are on. Assistance to overcome suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050. Godown gutted Fire broke out in a plastic scrap godown at Mettupalayam in the early hours of Friday. Officials from the Fire and Rescue Services Department said that the call was received at 4.50 a.m. and three fire fighting vehicles reached the spot near Sirumugai Road. No injuries were reported and the fire was doused by 8 a.m., officials said. Further investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/minor-girl-found-dead/article33700848.ece
30 January 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Wild elephant kills man in Coimbatore||The Forest Department officials on Friday found the body of a man who was killed by an elephant near Narasipuram in Coimbatore district. Police sources said Karthi, 47, a resident of Selvapuram, was attacked by a lone tusker on Thursday evening near a reserve forest at Narasipuram. They believe he must gone there to visit a temple. He suffered injuries and died on the spot. The body was sent to Coimbatore Medical College Hospital for an autopsy on Friday. Alandurai police have registered a case. Forest Department officials said the wild elephant was spotted in a village near Narasipuram on Thursday and a night patrol team chased it back to the forest around 10.30 p.m. The incident must have occurred prior to the arrival of the patrol team, the officials said. A sum of Rs. 50,000 will be provided to the victim’s kin as immediate relief out of the Rs. 4 lakh solatium given by the State government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/wild-elephant-kills-man-in-coimbatore/article33700796.ece
30 January 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Elephant found dead near Sirumugai||A female elephant was found dead in a reserve forest within the Sirumugai forest range, in Coimbatore district on Thursday. Forest Department officials said the field staff found the carcass while patrolling the Mothur Pethikuttai reserve forest, on Thursday around 5 p.m. The animal’s genitals were found swollen. An autopsy was conducted on Friday. Blood loss Forest veterinary officer A. Sukumar, who performed the autopsy, said the 23-year-old elephant suffered severe blood loss, which led to anaemia and caused its death. No external injuries were found on the carcass. The intestines were empty and its internal organs devoid of blood, he added. “We initially thought the elephant died due to pregnancy complications, but it was not pregnant,” Mr. Sukumar said. This is the second elephant death in the Coimbatore forest division this year. After the autopsy, the carcass was left in the wild for scavengers, said officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/elephant-found-dead-near-sirumugai/article33700804.ece
30 January 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Held for GST evasion||Officers of the Central GST Commissionerate, Coimbatore, have arrested and remanded in custody S. Karthikeyan, proprietor of Sunrise Enterprises, Coimbatore, for bill (invoice) trading without supply of goods. According to an official press release, the unit had received and issued invoices without supplying goods to scrap dealers and traders for commission. The total tax evaded is Rs. 2.23 crore. Investigation of connected scrap dealers is under progress.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/held-for-gst-evasion/article33700849.ece
30 January 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Encroachment removed||Coimbatore Corporation on Friday demolished nine houses that were built encroaching upon road space in Al Ameen Colony in Ward 86 in South Zone, said a release from the civic body. Town Planning Officer-Demolition S. Ravichandran supervised the eviction drive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/encroachment-removed/article33700850.ece
30 January 2021||Coimbatore/ Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||PMK demands internal reservation for Vanniyars||Pattali Makkal Katchi (PMK) workers staged a protest in front of the Coimbatore and Tiruppur Collectorates on Friday demanding 20% reservation for Vanniyars in government jobs and education institutions. In Coimbatore, the protest was led by the party’s youth wing deputy secretary Ashok Srinithi. Around 100 cadre marched from the Thandu Mariamman temple on Avinashi Road to the Collectorate. As the Coimbatore City Police stopped them in front of the Collectorate, the cadre raised slogans demanding 20% reservation within the MBC quota for Vanniyars. The protest was in response to a call given by the PMK leadership for a State-wide protest to highlight the demand. Mr. Srinithi told the journalists at the protest site that the reservation that Vanniyars had obtained a few decades ago after losing 21 lives had not benefited the community members. Therefore, the PMK had once again raised the issue demanding internal reservation for Vanniyars. The State Government should accede to the party’s demand, he said and added that the PMK was submitting a petition to the district administration to be forwarded to the State Government. In Tiruppur, nearly 400 workers participated in a rally led by the party’s State deputy general secretary Ramesh on Palladam Road. Following this, they staged a demonstration outside the Collectorate. A section of the PMK workers then met the District Revenue Officer G. Saravanamurthy and submitted a petition, the police sources said.  The State Government should accede to the party’s demand Ashok Srinithi PMK youth wing deputy secretary||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pmk-demands-internal-reservation-for-vanniyars/article33700852.ece
30 January 2021||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||Survey of crop loss incomplete: farmers||Agriculture Department officials, while enumerating crops destroyed in the north-east monsoon and unseasonal rains for giving compensation, have were taken in the enumeration for compensation, did not cover the Nilakottai-Batlagundu belt fully, said farmers from that region. Speaking at the monthly grievance day meeting for farmers held through video conferencing from the respective block offices of the Agriculture Department on Friday, the farmers said the survey was incomplete in many villages. “Without intimation, the survey teams arrived when we were not present. Hence, they left without taking down the details such as type of crop raised, extent of crop raised, damage, survey number, etc.,” they said Collector M Vijayalakshmi, who presided over the meeting, said the farmers need not have apprehensions and all the damages would be taken note of as per the parameters/guidelines laid by the State government. The farmers expressed satisfaction over the Collector’s reply and wanted to know the date and time of the next visit of the officials. Farmers from Sirumalai asked the Collector to instruct the survey team to visit their hamlets also as wild boars had destroyed their crops after the unseasonal rains. However, agriculture officials said that it has to be inspected by Forest Department officials, who would ascertain the loss. The Nilakottai farmers wanted jasmine plants at subsidised prices. Farmers from Natham Sathukudi said the big tank had thick growth of karuvelem trees, due to which the water could not be stored. They wanted the PWD engineers to inspect and clear them. Joint Director Pandithurai and other officials participated in the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/survey-of-crop-loss-incomplete-farmers/article33700972.ece
30 January 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Interim relief handed over to farmers whose livestock were killed by wild animals||An interim relief scheme that provides compensation to the farmers whose livestock were killed by wild animals in Sathyamangalam Tiger Reserve was launched at Hasanur on Friday. Launched jointly by the Worldwide Fund for Nature (WWF - India) and Talavadi Adhivasigal Munnetra Sangam (TAMS), Nihar Ranjan, Chief Conservator of Forests and Field Director, STR, handed over the cheques to four farmers. Devendra Kumar Meena, District Forest Officer, Hasanur Division and Deputy Field Director, STR, and officials were present. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Ranjan said that forest belongs to the people and provides clean air, water, nutrients for agriculture and better health. “Unfortunately sometimes, there is a conflict between wildlife and people living around forests, resulting in losses”, he said. He said that the forest department has also schemes to compensate the loss of livestock and termed the scheme as innovative as it provides on-the-spot relief to the people. Mr. Meena reiterated the importance of community-based conservation models and congratulated TAMS and WWF for launching the scheme. Ajay Steffan, Senior Programme Officer, WWF-India, said that the initiative would benefit the community and more importantly enhance people’s participation in wildlife conservation in STR. Balan, secretary of TAMS, said that the scheme is expected to improve the relationship between communities living near STR and wildlife. “This would be a good example, paving a way for community-led conservation,” he added. Speakers said that tribal people and other forest dwelling communities living in hamlets and villages of STR are dependent on livestock for their livelihood and sometimes these livestock get killed by wild animals such as tigers and leopards. They said that the scheme is a replication of a similar scheme in Bandipur Tiger Reserve that has been implemented successfully by the Mariamma Charitable Trust for the past 13 years. The event also showcased the culture and tradition of tribal people through music and traditional food, such as dishes made from local varieties of millets which were served to the guests. Cattle owners and farmers may call 8838-332124, to avail the interim relief.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/interim-relief-handed-over-to-farmers-whose-livestock-were-killed-by-wild-animals/article33700989.ece
30 January 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Explosives seized from defunct quarry||Explosives stored illegally in a defunct quarry at Bejalatti village in Bargur hills were seized by the Bargur police here on Thursday. Based on a tip-off that explosives were stored illegally, a team comprising Revenue Inspector Kokila, Muniyappan, Village Administrative Officer, Bargur ‘A’ Village, Anthiyur Block, and the police inspected the quarry that was non-functional for 12 years. They found a room in which explosives were stored illegally. The team seized 450 kg ammonium nitrate, and 1,282 gelatin sticks, detonators and slurry explosives stored in an unsafe manner at the quarry. A case under Section 9B (1) (b) of Explosive Act, 1884 was registered against the quarry owner Sumathi (74) of Gobichettipalayam and against Murugesan of Salem, who took the quarry on lease. Inquiries revealed that Sumathi had leased out the quarry to Murugesan that was functioning till 2009. In October, 2020, Murugesan had dumped the explosives and left after which the quarry was not opened.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/explosives-seized-from-defunct-quarry/article33700993.ece
30 January 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Four fined for hunting deer||Four persons, who hunted a deer at Vilamundi Forest Range in Sathyamangalam Tiger Reserve (STR), were fined Rs. 1 lakh here on Friday. During patrolling, forest staff found four persons with a gunny bag at Ukkanooran Kuttai area and intercepted them. They found the meat of a male deer along with its head and legs in the bag.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/four-fined-for-hunting-deer/article33700994.ece
30 January 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Farmers’ grievance meeting conducted||The farmers’ grievance meeting was organised after a long hiatus, albeit through video conferencing linked to the panchayat union offices, here on Friday. The farmers’ grievance meetings that were shuttered due to the pandemic were conducted here locally lined to the Collectorate through the panchayat union offices. According to the administration, the district had recorded 882.1 mm of rainfall last year. Up to December, a total of 1.18,073 ha has been brought under cultivation in Krishnagiri. This included paddy in 20,240 ha; millets in 45,031 ha, and various crops in 52,794 ha in the district. In addition, oil seeds have been cultivated in over 16,444 ha in the district. Presiding over the meeting remotely, Collector V. Jayachandra Bhanu Reddy urged farmers to use water judiciously in the cropping season, especially during the oncoming summer season. Farmers were also urged to approach the agricultural engineering department for farm inputs through subsidy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-grievance-meeting-conducted/article33701000.ece
30 January 2021||L. Srikrishna,TAMIL NADU||Police bust smuggling gang, arrest 19||Police here have unravelled a network of smugglers transporting ganja, ketamine and other narcotic substances to Sri Lanka. The exercise, which involved several teams, led to the arrest of 19 persons from Madurai, Ramanathapuram, Rameswaram and Thanjavur. Over 420 kg of ganja, Rs. 29.50 lakh, which included hawala money, two four-wheelers, one two-wheeler, three boats, 15 mobile phones, two weighing scales, one GPS gadget and one laser light were seized. The police said following the seizure of 34 kg of ganja from S. Chelladurai (39) of V. Kamatchipuram, Usilampatti, in Madurai district, a team raided the dwelling of Nawaz Khan in Ramanathapuram district. Superintendent of Police E. Karthik told The Hindu on Friday that the accused confessed to have procured the narcotic substance from Andhra Pradesh. After procuring two kg of ganja at Rs. 3,000 from A.P., a contact would sell it to Chelladurai at Rs. 7,000. Chelladurai, in turn, would sell it to Nawaz Khan at Rs. 15,000. Nawaz Khan supplied ganja in bulk quantities to his Sri Lankan contacts at the rate of Rs. 25,000 per two kg. With the aid of GPS, the smugglers used to reach particular points in the sea, deliver the contraband and collect the money. The SP said a boat would be anchored at an isolated place in Thangachimadam, and with the contraband it would reach the Sri Lankan contacts later. On some occasions, the Sri Lankan agents – Master, Jeevanandam, Sudarsanam, Ragu and Madhan – visited Rameswaram and Vadakadu and collected ganja packets from the local merchants – Dinesh, Rajesh and Ramesh, all accomplices of Nawaz Khan. During interrogation, the police also found that Nawaz Khan, through his accomplices Katti Mohamed and Noor Mohamed from Rameswaram, had procured ketamine and other drugs at Mannadi and Triplicane in Chennai and smuggled them to Sri Lanka. About a fortnight ago, the police seized 139 kg of ganja abandoned near the shorehere. When a special team probed the accused, they admitted to having smuggled it to Sri Lanka and when the Indian Coast Guard spotted them, they abandoned it and escaped. A police officer said ganja was being smuggled from Andhra Pradesh to Madurai district in trucks in about four to seven days. Sometimes, the agents took the narcotic substance to Thanjavur district and handed it over to some contacts. Hawala operations were also active in this activity. Kenikkarai police have registered cases under various sections of the NDPS Act.  Ganja is being smuggled from Andhra Pradesh to Madurai district in trucks in about four to seven days Police official||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-bust-smuggling-gang-arrest-19/article33700980.ece
30 January 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Regularise our services’||A group of anganwadi workers and helpers staged a demonstration at the Collectorate here on Friday urging the district administration to make them permanent government employees. The protesters said that many of the anganwadi workers and helpers had been performing their duties continuously for the past several years. "Apart from our regular work, the anganwadi workers have been collecting information and data for various government departments. They have been performing their duties even amidst the natural calamities," said Varadhalakshmi, District Secretary, Anganwadi Workers and Helpers Association. Dearness allowance as well as pension must be paid to all the anganwadi workers, they demanded. All anganwadi workers must be paid Rs. 10 lakh at the time of retirement, they said. The helpers must be paid Rs. 5 lakh while retiring, demanded the protesters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/regularise-our-services/article33701187.ece
30 January 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Impact of Sasikala’s release depends on her stand: BJP||The impact of release of former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa’s close aide V.K. Sasikala from jail on Tamil Nadu politics depends on the political stand she would take, according to BJP State president L. Murugan. Mr. Murugan told reporters here on Friday that his party would respond based on her political stand. He said this after inspecting the venue where the party national president J.P. Nadda is scheduled to kick-start election campaign by BJP in Madurai on Saturday. “After this meeting, several key party leaders will visit cities, including Chennai, Coimbatore, Tirunelveli, Tenkasi, Salem and Ramanathapuram for the election campaign,” he said. Accompanied by the party national secretary, C.T .Ravi, Mr. Murugan said that National Democratic Alliance would continue in Tamil Nadu.“The alliance that was forged for the Parliamentary election will continue for the State Assembly election too,” he added. Recalling that the then AIADMK chief Jayalalithaa had addressed election meeting in Madurai in 2011 and went on to capture power in the State, Mr. Ravi claimed BJP will win double digit seats in Tamil Nadu in the ensuing election. Mr. Nadda is scheduled to have closed-door meetings with party functionaries and important community leaders here during his visit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/impact-of-sasikalas-release-on-politics-depends-on-her-political-stand-bjp/article33700974.ece
30 January 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Don’t promote any tainted person, says HC Bench||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Friday restrained Madurai Kamaraj University from further promoting any person whose promotion was already in dispute. A Division Bench of Justices M.M. Sundresh and S. Ananthi passed the order on a public interest litigation petition filed by M. Lionel Antony Raj of Madurai, complaining of large-scale irregularities in previous appointments and promotions in the university. The petitioner sought a direction to the authorities concerned to implement the final report submitted by a high-level committee and revise promotions and appointments of teaching and non-teaching staff. He pointed out that people were appointed straight away to various posts in 2017 and 2018 during the stint of P.P. Chelladurai as Vice-Chancellor and V. Chinnaiah as Registrar and no reservation was followed. The appointment of Mr. Chelladurai as Vice-Chancellor to Madurai Kamaraj University was set aside by the Madras High Court and the order was upheld by the Supreme Court. Though a high-level committee headed by retired High Court Judge G.M. Akbar Ali submitted a report pointing out various irregularities, no steps had been taken to implement the report, the petitioner said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dont-promote-any-tainted-person-says-hc-bench/article33701190.ece
30 January 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Impact of Sasikala’s release depends on her political stand, says Murugan||The impact of the release of V.K. Sasikala, close aide of former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa, depends on her political stand, State BJP president L. Murugan said on Friday. Election campaign Mr. Murugan was here to inspect the venue where the party’s national president, J.P. Nadda, is scheduled to kick-start election campaign on Saturday. “After this meeting, several key party leaders will visit cities including Chennai, Coimbatore, Tirunelveli, Tenkasi, Salem and Ramanathapuram for the election campaign,” he told reporters. Accompanied by the party national secretary, C.T. Ravi, Mr. Murugan said that National Democratic Alliance continued in Tamil Nadu. “The alliance that was forged for the Parliamentary election will continue for the State Assembly election too,” he added.  Double-digit seats Recalling that the then AIADMK chief, Jayalalithaa, had addressed election meeting in Madurai in 2011 and went on to capture power in the State, Mr. Ravi claimed BJP will win in double-digit seats in the election. Mr. Nadda is scheduled to have closed-door meetings with party functionaries and important community leaders here during his visit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/impact-of-sasikala-tied-to-her-political-stand-bjp/article33700837.ece
30 January 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Ensure implementation of PCI guidelines’||The Madurai Bench of Madras High Court on Friday ordered notice to the Centre in a public interest litigation petition that sought a direction to implement the guidelines issued by the Press Council of India to media outlets to follow in reporting cases on deaths by suicide. Action must be taken against media outlets that fail to follow guidelines, the petitioner said. A Division Bench of Justices M.M. Sundresh and S. Ananthi ordered the notice in the petition filed by I. Mohamed Razvi of Madurai. Pointing out to several recent incidents, particularly on the coverage of NEET, the petitioner said that politicians and media outlets in the State had created an impression as if it would spoil the future of students and was tough. He said that private television news channels in the State were creating fear in the minds of students by repeatedly showing news on death by suicide by students. This would reduce confidence in students and discourage them. Also this was resulting in copycat incidents. Therefore, it must be ensured that the guidelines issued by the Press Council of India are followed, he said. The case was adjourned for further hearing till February 19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ensure-implementation-of-pci-guidelines/article33701191.ece
30 January 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||‘MGR-Jayalalithaa temple’ to be inaugurated today||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami and Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam will jointly inaugurate a temple built in memory of late AIADMK leaders M.G. Ramachandran and Jayalalithaa on a sprawling 12-acre site at T. Kunnathur near Tirumangalam on Saturday. Speaking to reporters here on Friday, Revenue Minister and Amma Peravai coordinator R.B. Udhayakumar said the two leaders had rendered yeomen service to the needy and the poor that people would always thank and remember them. On January 14 (Pongal), their life size bronze statues, weighing 400 kg each, were installed at the temple amidst chanting of mantras. Special kalasams had been placed on the gopuram (tower) of the temple. For the last two days, yagasalai pujas with hymns chanted by 21 Sivacharyas were being performed at the shrine, he said. AIADMK cadres, including women who were on a fast for the last 21 days, had been taking out a padayatra from different parts of southern districts and would reach the temple on Saturday, Mr. Udhayakumar said. He added that 135 beneficiaries would be distributed cows and 234 economically weak party cadres from across Tamil Nadu would be given porkizhi on the occasion. Annadhanam had been arranged at the temple for the visitors. The CM and Deputy CM would be accorded a rousing reception from Tirumangalam Toll Plaza up to the temple, the organisers said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mgr-jayalalithaa-temple-to-be-inaugurated-today/article33700955.ece
30 January 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||High Court dismisses plea||The Madurai Bench of Madras High Court on Friday dismissed as withdrawn a petition that sought a ban on COVID-19 vaccine claiming that it had side effects. A Division Bench of Justices M.M. Sundresh and S.Ananthi observed that the petition was absolutely irrelevant. The petition was filed by G. Thirumurugan of Ramanathapuram. After the counsel representing the petitioner apologised to the court, he was permitted to withdraw the petition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/high-court-dismisses-plea/article33701189.ece
30 January 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Remarks against official expunged||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Friday expunged certain remarks made against Higher Education Secretary Apoorva by a single judge Bench. The judge had made the remark while quashing a recruitment notification issued by Bharathidasan University, Tiruchi, that treated the entire university as one unit for applying the reservation policy. A Division Bench of Justices M.M. Sundresh and S. Ananthi expunged the remarks made against the Higher Education Secretary and observed that the adverse remarks were not necessary. The court was hearing the appeal preferred by the V-C of the University. The appeal against the single judge order was dismissed as not pressed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-expunges-remarks-against-official/article33700831.ece
30 January 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||HC expunges remarks||The Madurai Bench of Madras High Court on Friday expunged certain remarks made on Higher Education Secretary Apoorva by a single judge bench. The judge had made the remark while quashing a recruitment notification issued by Bharathidasan University, Tiruchi, that treated the entire university as one unit for applying reservation policy. A Division Bench of Justices M.M. Sundresh and S. Ananthi expunged the remarks and observed that the adverse remarks were not necessary. The court was hearing an appeal preferred by the Vice-Chancellor of the university. The appeal against the single judge order was dismissed as not pressed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-expunges-remarks/article33700953.ece
30 January 2021||Nagercoil,TAMIL NADU||A fruitful avocation for a retired headmaster||They also serve who preserve. J. Joe Prakash, a retired headmaster, chose to more than ensure that his students’ future was preserved. He took his passion for banana crops a step further; he went in search of banana variants that were presumed to be extinct, or at least had disappeared. “I began my search for rare bananas four years ago when my grand-daughter Adna Johannes was born. Since then, I have succeeded in collecting 35 varieties,” Joe Prakash, 63, told The Hindu . A writer, who also considers himself a naturalist, he has been reproducing and distributing these rare varieties to those who are interested in growing them. His garden is 10 km away from his residence at Senamvilai in Kanniyakumari district; he spends his evenings in the garden tending to the banana crops. “My objective is to save these plants from becoming extinct. I collected mostly from friends and people who have similar interests,” said Mr. Prakash, who has planted them in his 35- cent garden at Mullankinavilai. “I have succeeded in reproducing them and distributing them to those who are interested in it.” It is a labour of love for him, so he does not charge anything for the plants, and spends his own money to take care of them. In 1965, Jacob Kurien, a Kerala researcher, had recorded 165 varieties of bananas in Travancore in a study that had covered the areas from Kanniyakumari to Kollam. But even farmers in the district think that there is only one type of ‘Matti’, a small banana with a fine aroma, unique to Kanniyakumari district. Mr. Prakash was able to collect four varieties of ‘Matti’, including a rare ‘Semmatti’ (red-coloured Matti), ‘Then Matti’ (honey Matti) and ‘Malai Matti’ (Hill Matti). The benefits of ‘Semmatti’ have been highlighted by J. Lohidas, Associate Professor, Department of Botany, Scott Christian College, who had studied the banana varieties for his doctoral thesis.  Commercial viability “I found that ‘Semmatti’ is low in sugar and high in ascorbic acid content,” he said, explaining that most of the varieties became extinct because farmers had opted only for commercially viable crops. In Mr. Prakash’s garden stand a few varieties of ‘Nenthiram’; ‘Othaikomban’, which will bear only one bunch; four varieties of ‘Peyan’ (‘naatu pazham’); ‘Karumthuzhuvan’ (‘black rasthali’); ‘Moongil Vazhai’ (bamboo banana) with an erect flower; ‘Poongathali’; ‘Neikathalai’ (Royal banana meant for the Travancore kings); and ‘Poojakathali’ (used in temple pujas). “I am still searching for ‘Anaikomban’, which will bear just one fruit,” said Mr. Prakash, an English literature student, who had a brief stint as a journalist. He has also written a few books. As a person who travels widely, Mr. Prakash has also introduced a few varieties of banana from the Philippines, Singapore and Malaysia.  I began my search for rare bananas four years ago when my grand-daughter Adna Johannes was born. Since then, I have succeeded in collecting 35 varieties||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-fruitful-avocation-for-a-retired-headmaster/article33700802.ece
30 January 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||One party rule in Centre, U.T. will benefit people: Namassivayam||Former Minister A. Namassivayam on Friday said people of the Union Territory would benefit if BJP comes to power as the Centre was also governed by the same party. “The Union Territory will immensely benefit if BJP comes to power here. People will benefit if the same party rules in the Centre and the Union Territory. I was compelled to quit from the Congress ministry as I was not able to deliver anything for the public because of the style of functioning of the Chief Minister,” he said on his arrival at the BJP office here, after he was inducted into the party in New Delhi on Thursday. The attitude of the Chief Minister towards the Centre and the Lt. Governor has taken the Union Territory backwards by 20 years. No development works or welfare schemes could be implemented because of Chief Minister’s confrontation with the Lt. Governor, he said. “The Chief Minister adopted such a stand for his personal benefits. He thought only by attacking the Centre he will be able to get national stature,” Mr. Namassivayam said. He urged the BJP workers to strive hard to bring the party to power. Earlier in the day, he was given a reception at the Kalapet border by his supporters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/one-party-rule-in-centre-ut-will-benefit-people-namassivayam/article33701298.ece
30 January 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||MGMCRI performs its first renal transplant successfully||Mahatma Gandhi Medical College and Research Institute (MGMCRI), a constituent college of Sri Balaji Vidyapeeth, has successfully performed its first renal transplant. The procedure was performed on a 33-year-old male who had renal failure. The patient who hails from Nagapattinam district had received the donor kidney from his 26-year-old spouse. The couple was discharged in a healthy condition following a 12-day stay in the hospital. A noteworthy feature is the 60% subsidy levied on the cost incurred towards the live renal transplant, a press note from MGMCRI said. While lauding the efforts of the transplant team, Subhash Chandra Parija, Vice Chancellor of Sri Balaji Vidyapeeth, said initiatives for starting a liver transplantation programme had been started as part of an overall effort to strengthen the organ transplant services at MGMCRI. These services would benefit the underserved patient community in and around Puducherry and neighbouring Tamil Nadu, Dr. Parija said. Liver transplants would be commenced at the earliest upon receiving necessary permission from the competent authorities, he said. The renal transplant programme was initiated subsequent to the approval provided by the Ministry of Health & Family Welfare, Government of India, New Delhi. Dr. Parija informed that all patients with end-stage renal failure or those with Chronic Kidney Disease Stage 4 need to be assessed for renal transplantation. Kidneys can be donated by either living donors or from deceased donors. Deceased donors are either donations after brainstem death or donation after circulatory death. A state-of-the-art and dedicated operation theatre supported by fully-equipped critical care units and post-operative ward would henceforth render its services for this exclusive renal transplant programme, said Nirmal Coumare, Medical Superintendent, MGMCRI. The successful renal transplant was performed by the team of specialists led by Hemachander, nephrologist and Kalayan Ram Kone, urologist of MGMCRI. Benefit of underserved The hospital is ready to perform renal transplantation in a phased manner in view of the fact that 12 patients with chronic renal failure have already registered. Empanelment with the Tamil Nadu Chief Minister’s Comprehensive Health Insurance Scheme for renal transplant has also been aimed at for catering to a larger patient community, especially hailing from the underserved areas in the neighbouring districts of Tamil Nadu, doctors said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mgmcri-performs-its-first-renal-transplant-successfully/article33701299.ece
30 January 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Art for Land opens at the Unity Pavilion tomorrow||The 6th annual edition of Art for Land, a fund-raiser event by Auroville for acquiring land to implement its master-plan, opens at the Unity Pavilion on Sunday. A month-long event, “Liminal Space” will bring together artists, musicians and performers from all over the world. According to Auroville, the entire month will be devoted to the art show and will also feature concerts, performances, stimulating talks and other events such as Grace Lottery and the annual Generosity Fair. Art for Land has already made a significant contribution to Auroville’s land consolidation and is a recognised showcase for the creativity of Auroville’s artists, and artist friends from the Sri Aurobindo Ashram and the Auroville International chapters in India and abroad. Generous acts Each of the participating artists has generously donated works to support Auroville’s land. In addition to the high-quality of the artworks and the Exhibition, there will be weekly events, with some of them broadcast live from the Unity Pavilion. Works can be viewed and reserved at the Unity Pavilion (daily from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m.) or online at artforland.in. More information is available at unitypavilion@ auroville.org.in All proceeds from art purchase and donations at the events go to the Acres for Auroville land campaign for Auroville’s still missing lands. Following an action-filled opening that will have a curated exhibition and music, the first week will include a meet-and-greet with artists (February 2 and 4), sound bath by Svaram unit in Auroville featuring deep relaxation and vibrations with basic acoustic instruments (February 3), art meditation (February 6).  All proceeds from art purchase and donations at the events go to the Acres for Auroville land campaign for Auroville’s still missing lands||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/art-for-land-opens-at-the-unity-pavilion-tomorrow/article33701301.ece
30 January 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Government issues guidelines for surveillance, containment, caution||Puducherry added 31 new COVID-19 cases on Friday to take the Union Territory’s overall tally past the 39,000 cases mark. No death was reported in the Union Territory over the last 24 hours. Meanwhile, the government has issued a set of guidelines for surveillance, containment and caution against COVID-19 that would be in effect till February 28, on the basis of a directive from the Ministry of Home Affairs. The new cases, which were confirmed from testing 2,961 samples, were most in Puducherry (16), followed by Mahe (12) and Karaikal (three). The Yanam enclave did not report any new case. With 27 patients discharged from hospitals, the number of active cases in the Union Territory stood at 295. Of this, 108 were in hospitals and 187 in home isolation. The test positivity rate was 1.04%, case fatality rate 1.66% and recovery rate 97.58%. The coronavirus tally in the Union Territory stood at 647 deaths, a total caseload of 39,004 and 38,062 patients recovered so far. Of an estimated 5.70 lakh samples tested so far by the Health Department, about 5.27 lakh were negative. Violation punishable In a seven-page order extending the state of alert against the coronavirus till the end of February and essentially reiterating the national directives for COVID-19 management, District Collector Purva Garg said any violation of guidelines would be punishable under provisions of the Disaster Management Act, 2005 and Epidemic Act. Though the number of active cases of COVID-19 has been declining steadily over the last four months, in order to consolidate the substantial gains against the spread of COVID-19, and to fully overcome the pandemic, there is a need to maintain caution and strictly follow the prescribed containment strategy, focused on surveillance, containment and strict observance of the guidelines, the order said. The detailed set of guidelines take effect from February 1, the order said. 10 new cases Cuddalore district reported 10 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Friday, taking the district’s tally to 24,920. While 24,598 persons have been discharged, the number of active cases in the district stands at 19. In Kallakurichi district, three persons tested positive, taking the total number of positive cases in the district to 10,869. Villupuram district reported one positive case, taking the overall count to 15,176.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/government-issues-guidelines-for-surveillance-containment-caution/article33701303.ece
30 January 2021||Pudukottai,TAMIL NADU||There is no safety for women and they are living in fear, says Kanimozhi||DMK women’s wing leder M.K. Kanimozhi on Friday alleged that women were living without any safety in Tamil Nadu. “Where is the protection for women in the State,” she asked citing the Pollachi sexual abuse and other sexual assault cases against women. Interacting with journalists at Thulayanur village in Tirumayam block, Ms Kanimozhi, who was here as part of the DMK’s ‘Vidyalai Nokki Stalinin Kural’ (Stalin’s voice for a dawn) said the present AIADMK government had signed the UDAY Scheme and accepted NEET both of which were stoutly opposed by former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa. “Is this the way to rule in Amma ’s (Jayalalithaa) way?” she wondered. Replying to a query, Ms. Kanimozhi said the DMK was not a party which changed its policies by the minute and asserted that her party was not under the clutches of any corporate company. She said technological support was now required to face an election for which a strategist’s firm was working with the DMK. Those criticising the DMK had also engaged strategists for providing technical and technological support. Ms. Kanimozhi said the DMK firmly opposed the new farm laws and its withdrawal was the consistent stand of the party and its leader M.K. Stalin. This was also the demand of the agitating farmers. She insisted that the DMK would achieve “huge victory” in the upcoming elections and Mr. Stalin would become the next Chief Minister. Talks of fissures between the Congress and the DMK were just a canard, she said. Earlier, Ms. Kanimozhi interacted with vegetable growers at Alavayal, heard the grievances of the women self-help groups and campaigned at various places in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/there-is-no-safety-for-women-and-they-are-living-in-fear-says-kanimozhi/article33700957.ece
30 January 2021||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||30 injured in Pudukottai jallikattu||Thirty persons were injured in a jallikattu event held at Malayakoil in Panayapatti police station limit in the district on Friday. As many as 662 bulls brought from various places were released one after the other at the event that lasted five hours. About 150 tamers took part. The bulls were subjected to examination by veterinary teams and tamers with COVID-19 negative certificates were only allowed after checking them at the event venue, said police sources. Three among the injured were referred to the Pudukottai Government Hospital for treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/30-injured-in-jallikattu/article33700947.ece
30 January 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Special trains between Bengaluru and Nagercoil||The Southern Railway has announced fully reserved special trains between KSR Bengaluru and Nagercoil here. According to a release, Train no.07235 KSR Bengaluru – Nagercoil daily special train will depart from KSR Bengaluru at 5 p.m. every day from January 31 and it willd reach Nagercoil at 8.20 a.m the next day. Train no.07236 Nagercoil – KSR Bengaluru daily special train will depart from Nagercoil at 7.10 p.m. every day from February 1 and it will reach KSR Bengaluru at 9.20 a.m the next day. The train is composed of one AC 2-tier, three AC 3-tier, 10 sleeper class, four general second class and two luggage-cum-brake van coaches. The train will stop at Bengaluru Cantonment, Hosur, Dharmapuri, Salem, Namakkal, Karur, Dindigul, Madurai, Virudhunagar, Satur, Kovilpatti, Tirunelveli and Valliyur. Train no.07235 will stop at Rasipuram as well, the release adds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/special-trains-between-bengaluru-and-nagercoil/article33701005.ece
30 January 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Protest staged against SSP privatisation move||The Labour Progressive Federation protested in front of the Salem Steel Plant (SSP) here on Thursday on various demands. The protesters demanded that the Centre should give up its efforts to privatise the steel plant and retain it as a public sector undertaking. They also demanded that the vacancies in the plant be filled up and salary discrepancies be settled at the earliest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/protest-staged-against-ssp-privatisation-move/article33700987.ece
30 January 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Nurses attend duty wearing black badge||Nurses at the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital protested by wearing black badges while on duty demanding that the State government fulfil their various demands. The protesters demanded that the nurses in State government service should be provided with salaries on par with nurses under Central service. They demanded incentives for nurses who were involved in COVID-19 duty, compensation for nurses affected by COVID-19 disease and jobs for kin on compassionate grounds for those who died due to the disease. The nurses demanded time-bound promotions and creation of positions as per Indian Nursing Council norms. Over 300 nurses took part in the protest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nurses-attend-duty-wearing-black-badge/article33701002.ece
30 January 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Two students from Salem selected for Science Congress||Two Class 10 students from Salem have been selected for the National Children’s Science Congress (NCSC) based on their research reports. Vishal and Raveenprakash, students of Attur Government Boys Higher Secondary School, have been selected for the National Children’s Science Congress here. They were guided by their teacher Munuswami and Principal Chandrashekaran. The students prepared a report on ‘Myths around drumstick tree’. According to members of Tamil Nadu Science Forum who coordinates the event in State, 87 reports were submitted online from the district for the district-level meet and 15 were selected for the State level event. They said, 311 reports were reviewed at the State level, of which 30 were selected for the National Congress.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-students-from-salem-selected-for-science-congress/article33701003.ece
30 January 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Water released||About 1,500 cusecs of water was discharged through Cauvery river from Mettur dam on Friday. According to PWD officials, the water level at the dam was 105.98ft against a total scale of 120 ft.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-released/article33701001.ece
30 January 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Awards distributed||The Long Service Awards were distributed at Salem Steel Plant on Thursday. According to a release, 122 employees along with their families attended the event held on the unit premises and received the award for 25 years of service at the steel plant. Sanjeev Taneja, Executive Director of the plant, and other senior officials presented the certificate and mementos to the staff.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/awards-distributed/article33700986.ece
30 January 2021||Staff ReporterMadurai,TAMIL NADU||Open more DPCs, say farmers||The need for opening more number of Direct Purchase Centres (DPCs) across the district for purchasing paddy crop dominated the discussions held during the farmers' grievance meeting held at the Collectorate, here on Friday. Collector T. Anbalagan, Joint Director of Agriculture T. Vivekanandan, and officials from various departments participated in the meeting. A section of farmers also charged that 'agents' were appointed for managing the DPCs based on the influence of ruling party members. Members of Farmers Producers Groups must be entrusted with the responsibility of managing the DPCs, demanded the farmers. Mr. Vivekanandan replied that DPCs were opened at many places across the district with an aim to benefit the farmers. He urged the farmers to work together so that all farmers sell their produce at the DPCs. M. Thirupathi, a farmer from Kulamangalam, said that the district-level committee that was formed to check the irregularities in the functioning of DPCs had not conducted any inspection. "The unofficial practice of paying around Rs. 60 for each bag of rice at the DPCs is still prevalent, which needs to be addressed," he added. The farmers also stressed that both agricultural and horticultural crops were damaged across the district due to the recent rains. They sought proper compensation for the crops, including for farmers who had not insured their crops. P. Manikandan, a farmer from Usilampatti, urged the district administration to increase the quantum of water being released for the 58-canal scheme. "As the water storage at Periyar and Vaigai dams are at a good level, the officials can comfortably release water through the 58-canal scheme. If the officials can't increase the quantum of water being released, they can at least increase the number of days that water is being released through the channel," he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/open-more-dpcs-say-farmers/article33701185.ece
30 January 2021||TENKASI,TAMIL NADU||Collector inspects rain-hit paddy fields in Tenkasi district||Leading a team of officials from the Departments of Agriculture and Revenue , Collector G.S. Sameeran has started inspecting paddy fields affected by the recent rains along the western ghats since wednesday to ascertain the quantum of destruction caused by the unseasonal rains in mid-January and the compensation to be given to the affected farmers. After the unseasonal and unprecedented rains that lashed Tirunelveli, Tenkasi and Thoothukudi districts in mid-January the storage in all the dams has raised . But the rains caused extensive damage to the crops, much to the agony of farmers. The rains that spoilt their ‘Pongal’ celebrations also damaged roads in these districts. Crop damage is inspected in the three districts to ascertain the quantum of damage and commensurate compensation to be given to the farmers. Farmers who raised paddy and vegetables in Tenkasi district have suffered heavy loss in the recent rains. The Collector also met aggrieved farmers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/collector-inspects-rain-affected-paddy-fields/article33700960.ece
30 January 2021||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Open DPCs in Ammapettai immediately: CPI||A protest was held by the Communist Party of India (CPI) on Friday demanding immediate opening of direct purchase centres (DPCs) at Ammapettai and surrounding areas. According to R. Senthilkumar, Ammapettai, CPI Union Secretary, the Tamil Nadu Civil Supplies Corporation has not opened a permanent DPC at Ammapettai and even temporary DPCs that were usually set up at Puliyakudi, Pallavaroyanpettai, Puthur and Kokkeri around Ammapettai during the Samba harvest season had not been opened. The harvested crop has been stocked in open near these centres for the past few days, he claimed and added that the corporation opens DPCs only at the places where the farmers staged demonstrations demanding opening of the centres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/open-dpcs-in-ammapettai-immediately-cpi/article33700946.ece
30 January 2021||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Cholapuram comes under CCTV network||Sixteen closed-circuit television cameras installed to monitor the major thoroughfare at Cholapuram in Kumbakonam taluk, sponsored by the All Traders Welfare Association, Cholapuram, were commissioned on Friday. The cameras have been linked to the control room set up at the association’s office at Ramanujam Street. Participating in the inaugural function, V. Asokan, Deputy Superintendent of Police, Thiruvidaimaruthur, thanked the traders for joining hands with the law-enforcing machinery to ensure safe living environment for the public. Addressing the , A. M. Vikrama Raja, president, Tamil Nadu Vanigar Sangangalin Peramaippu, urged the State not to insist remittance of profession tax by traders who were asked to shut their business for a major part of the last financial year in view of the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cholapuram-comes-under-cctv-network/article33700943.ece
30 January 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Civic issues will be resolved within a month, says official||Grievances pertaining to waterlogging, construction of storm water drains, badly damaged roads due to recent rains and other civic issues would be sorted out within a month, Corporation Commissioner V.P. Jayaseelan has promised. Addressing a special grievance redressal meeting here on Friday for the benefit of residents from wards in east and north zones, Mr. Jayaseelan said the civic body would take positive action on all the 45 petitions. A good number of residents from the East Zone sought drainage facility, re-laying of battered roads, replacing damaged caps in underground drainage manholes etc. When a person submitted application for property name transfer, action was taken within two hours. Executive Engineer Sermakani, Assistant Executive Engineer Saravanan, Executive Engineer (Planning) Rangarajan and Assistant Commissioners Chandramohan, Prince and Balasubramanian participated in the meeting. Similar meeting for the south and west zones will be conducted in the respective zonal offices on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/civic-issues-will-be-resolved-within-a-month-says-official/article33700964.ece
30 January 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||‘Give us gratuity of Rs. 10 lakh’||Anganwadi workers staged a demonstration in front of the Collectorate here on Friday to highlight their demands, including gratuity of Rs. 10 lakh on superannuation. The protestors, led by A. Mariammal, district president of anganwadi workers’ union, raised slogans demanding time-scale for them after recognising them as government employees. Besides giving them pension and family pension, the anganwadi workers should be given a gratuity of Rs. 10 lakh and Rs. 5 lakh to the assistants. After CITU secretary R. Russel formally inaugurated the protest, district secretary of AnganWadi Workers’ Union M. Chandra addressed the 500-odd protestors gathered in front of the Collectorate. Similar agitation was organised near Tenkasi Collectorate also.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/give-us-gratuity-of-rs-10-lakh/article33700962.ece
30 January 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Constable’s house burgled||Burglars have decamped with gold jewellery worth Rs. 4.80 lakh from the house of a Government Railway Police constable at Sorispuram here. Police said the burglars had gained entry into the house of Balasubramanian in New Sundar Nagar under SIPCOT police station limits after breaking the main door. The constable, who is working in Chennai, had gone with his family to visit his parents in Thalaivanvadali near Authoor. When Mr. Balasubramanian returned home on Friday, he found that the burglars had stolen 12 sovereigns of gold ornaments kept in the safe. The SIPCOT police are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/constables-house-burgled/article33700937.ece
30 January 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Kudamuritti bridge gives commuters the jitters||The surface on the overbridge across Kudamuritti river on the Tiruchi-Karur Highway has suffered extensive damage following the latest spell of rainfall making the narrow bridge a traffic bottleneck. The road surface has been heavily eroded and in some places the old concrete surface is also exposed. Cracks and potholes have also developed at several places on the bridge, forcing motorists to move at a snail’s pace to negotiate the bridge. With a police check-post being located close to the bridge, steel barricades have been placed to force vehicles to slow down at the spot. Besides, town bus halts are also located right next to the check-post. Traffic snarls are a frequent occurrence, especially whenever bullock carts cross the bridge, town buses halt near the check-post or when the police signal a vehicle to pull over for checks. The bridge across the river, close to its confluence point with the Cauvery in the city, has grown weak over the years. Built by the British in 1924, the narrow bridge has been struggling to cater to the growing traffic. The Highways Department has even placed a signboard prominently asking motorists to ‘go slow as the bridge is in disrepair.’ Irate commuters fret and fume over the delay in executing a proposal to widen the bridge. Although the State Highways Department is currently widening the 11-km stretch between Tiruchi and Thindukarai, a proposal to widen the Kudamuritti bridge on the highway was de-linked from the project for reasons best known to the authorities. The department had originally planned to build a new bridge across the river and included it in the proposal for widening and strengthening of the Tiruchi-Thindukarai stretch of the highway at an estimated cost of Rs. 73 crore. This included a plan to construct a new bridge across Kudamuritti at a cost of Rs. 15 crore. The department later decided to take up the construction of the bridge as a separate project. A government order has since been issued for preparation of a detailed project report for the construction of the bridge. But the project has not reached the execution stage yet. A team of experts would have to make a technical study and prepare the report, sources indicated. When contacted, a Highways Department officer said that temporary repairs would be carried out on the bridge over the next couple of days. However, with nearly 80% of the road widening project on the Tiruchi-Thindukarai section being completed so far, residents of the suburbs are clamouring for the early construction of the bridge. “Earlier, they said construction of a new bridge will be taken up as part of the widening of the Tiruchi-Thindukarai stretch. Now the road widening is nearing completion; once it is completed the volume of traffic is bound to increase on the stretch as more vehicles would take this route instead of the Tiruchi-Musiri Road. The authorities should expedite the process and ensure that the new bridge was built at the earliest to fully de-congest the stretch,” said P. Ayyarappan, a road safety activist of Allur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kudamuritti-bridge-gives-commuters-the-jitters/article33700939.ece
30 January 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||New signages come up in city to aid tourists||Travellers to the city will soon see bright new signage erected by the Tiruchi Corporation to guide them to their destinations. The civic body is utilising funds from the Smart Cities Mission to set up the signage in various important landmarks and junctions in the city. In an attempt to assist travellers and tourists, the civic body has drawn up a plan, worth Rs. 4.15 crore to set up well-lit signboards showing directions to important locations, including Rockfort, Central Bus Stand, District Collectorate among others. The boards are part of the work to create smart roads across the city, senior officials of the civic body said. A contractor, based in Pudukottai has been roped in for the work where five large signboards of 20-metre width and five of 15-metre width will be installed. Two such boards have been installed at the Salai Road - Karur Bypass Road junction. Eleven ‘way-finding’ signboards of a smaller size, four city-guide maps, 1,300 median markers, 980 cautionary boards and 275 road name boards are also planned. The work is being done as part of the Area Based Development project of the Smart Cities Mission in the city and is focussed on a seven-kilometre radius of the Rockfort. The work would be completed in a month, senior officials of the civic body told The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-signages-come-up-in-city-to-aid-tourists/article33700933.ece
30 January 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK functionary expelled||A district-level functionary of the ruling AIADMK was expelled from the party on Friday apparently for putting up posters welcoming former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa’s aide V. K. Sasikala upon her release from prison after serving a four-year sentence in the disproportionate assets case. Posters in the name of ‘Puliyur’ R. Annadurai, district representative of Andhanallaur-South Union in the party and former District Panchayat councillor, appeared in different parts of the district on Friday hailing Sasikala as ‘ Thyaga Thalaivi Chinnamma ’ “who had led a life of penance with Amma (Jayalalithaa) for 33 years.” The posters which referred to ‘ Chinnamma ’ as AIADMK general secretary featured photos of Sasikala and Jayalalithaa along with that of Annadurai. In a swift reaction, AIADMK coordinator O. Panneerselvam and co-coordinator Edappadi K.Palaniswami, issued a joint statement announcing the expulsion of Mr. Annadurai for indulging in anti-party activities. They urged party cadres not to have any contact with Mr. Annadurai. He is the second office bearer to be expelled from the party in the past few days. An MGR Mandram office bearer of Tirunelveli was expelled on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-functionary-expelled/article33700940.ece
30 January 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Transgenders get a taste of agri entrepreneurship at NRCB||A group of eight transgenders were exposed to opportunities available to turn as agri entrepreneurs by tapping the potential of banana, a widely grown fruit in the region, during a two- day training organised by the National Research Centre for Banana (NRCB) here recently. The initiative was part of a NRCB mission on “reaching the unreached.” The programme, funded by NABARD, was attended by eight transgenders Kajol, president of the Social Action For Emancipation (SAFE), an organisation that works for the uplift of the transgender community, a NRCB press release said. Inaugurating the training through video conference Anand Kumar Singh, Deputy Director General, Horticultural Science, Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR),elaborated on the scope of entrepreneurship and underlined the need for branding and pan India marketing. The ICAR will extend support for marketing under such initiatives, he said. B. K. Pandey, Assistant Director General, ICAR, briefed the participants on the government schemes available including for establishing cold storages and supply chain management. S.Uma, Director, NRCB, said it was a maiden initiative of the centre meant for economic empowerment and self-reliance of transgenders through banana cultivation and utilisation. The training would open up a plethora of options to them, she said and explained the potential for producing various banana based products. NRCB would host more training programmes for transgenders and offer incubation facilities for the interested trainees. S. Backiyarani, D. Ramajayam, P. Suresh Kumar and C. Karpagam, Scientists, NRCB, provided hands-on training to the participants on preparation of banana flower pickle, central stem juice, low-fat banana chips, raising nursery for ornamental banana and multiplying traditional banana varieties by macro propagation. Opportunities for raising funds for sustainable business projects were also explained. V. Kumar, Principal Scientist of the institute, explained various aspects of banana cultivation. While thanking NRCB for hosting the training, Ms. Kajol suggested that the programme be scaled up for the benefit of transgender community across the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/transgenders-get-a-taste-of-agri-entrepreneurship-at-nrcb/article33700936.ece
30 January 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||45 new COVID-19 cases and one death recorded in central region||The central districts continued to record a low number of COVID-19 cases with 45 patients testing positive for the viral infection. One death was reported in Thanjavur according to the bulletin released by the Department of Health and Family Welfare on Friday. A 54-year-old man from Thanjavur who was suffering from acute respiratory distress syndrome died of COVID-19 at a private hospital. All eight districts in the central region reported less than 10 cases on Friday. Tiruchi reported nine while Karur and Nagapattinam reported an equal number of cases - eight each. Among the patients who tested positive were primary contacts and patients with a history of respiratory illnesses. A patient who was undergoing treatment at the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital was discharged after recovering from the viral infection. Among the patients who tested positive in Karur were inter-district travellers from Salem and three residents of Ansari Street in Karur. Thanjavur reported seven new cases, while Pudukottai recorded six. Four patients tested positive in Ariyalur, while in Tiruvarur two persons tested positive. One new COVID-19 case was reported in Perambalur district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/45-new-covid-19-cases-and-one-death-recorded-in-central-region/article33700934.ece
30 January 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Partial cancellation of trains||The Mysuru - Mayiladuthurai festival special train ( 06232) has been extended to run up to March 31. The Mayiladuthurai - Mysuru festival special train (06231) has been extended to run up to April 1, a press release from Salem Railway Division said.  Southern Railway also announced partial cancellation of the Palakkad Town - Tiruchi Junction - Palakkad Town special trains due to line block to facilitate engineering works. A release said the Palakkad Town - Tiruchi Junction special train (06844) would be partially cancelled between Erode and Tiruchi Junction from January 29 to February 2. The train will run from Palakkad Town to Erode only. The Tiruchi Junction - Palakkad Town special train (06843) would be partially cancelled between Tiruchi Junction and Erode from January 30 to February 3. The train will run from Erode to Palakkad Town only.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/special-trains-to-run-for-extended-period/article33700948.ece
30 January 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||No water supply today and tomorrow||Drinking water supply would remain suspended to the following areas in the city on Saturday and Sunday owing to a burst in the pumping mains near Sarkarpalayam: Sanjeevi Nagar, Devadhanam, Viragupettai, Mahalakshmi Nagar, Malaikoil, Nehruji Nagar, Ariyamangalam Ukkadai,Ariyamangalam, Jaganathapuram, Malaiyappa Nagar, Rail Nagar, Senthaneerpuram, Sangiliandapuram, Military Colony, Vivekananda Nagar, J.K.Nagar, Mela Kalkandarkottai, Ponneripuram, Kallukuzhi, Ponmalaipatti, Central Prison, Subramaniapuram, Airport, Kamaraj Nagar, Sembattu, Khaja Nagar, Khajamalai, K.K.Nagar, Thendral Nagar, Anand Nagar, Sathyavani Muthu Nagar and Ayyappa Nagar. Work to repair the damaged pipeline near Sarkarpalayam was on and regular water supply would be restored to these areas on Monday, a Corporation press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-water-supply-today-and-tomorrow/article33701344.ece
30 January 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Paddy raised on 34,845 ha as dams have 97% storage||With the reservoirs in Tirunelveli district having 97.05% storage, farmers have raised crops on 44,095 hectares, including paddy on over 34,845 hectares,said Collector V. Vishnu. Addressing the virtual farmers’ grievance day meet here on Friday, Mr. Vishnu said the district, which received 716.92 mm rainfall between January and December last year against the annual average of 814.80 mm - with a deficit of 12% - recorded 349.91 mm rainfall in January this year against the average of 50.20 mm, which is 697% in excess. Consequently, the dams - Papanasam, Servalar, Manimuthar, Vadakku Pachaiyar, Kodumudiyar and Nambiyar - have 97.05% water, which was 79.20% during the corresponding period last year, he said. Buoyed by the good storage, farmers have also cultivated minor millets on 595 hectares, grams on 7,510 hectares, cotton on 653 hectares, sugarcane on 33 hectares and oilseeds on 459 hectares. “We have adequate stock of chemical and bio fertilizers in primary agriculture cooperative societies and farmers should sow only certified seeds to get a better yield. The agro inputs are sold only through point of sale outlets to ensure immediate online payment of subsidy to the farmers’ bank account. Agriculture officials have been instructed to conduct surprise check on the sale points for quality, quantity and the price. So far the officials, after conducting the raids, have banned the sale of agro inputs worth Rs. 55.33 lakh, including 25.15 tonnes of seeds,” the Collector added. The crop loss caused by unseasonal rains in January was being surveyed to expedite disbursal of compensation. Subsidy Small and marginal farmers would get 100% subsidy for installing micro irrigation gadgets such as dripper, sprinkler etc., while others would get 75% grant as they conserved water even while ensuring a better yield. As the district had received Rs. 10.68 crore for installing the micro irrigation equipment on 2,500 hectares during this fiscal, farmers should make use of this opportunity to have a better yield in sugarcane, coconut, oil palm, groundnut, grams, cotton, etc. Farmers could approach the Offices of Assistant Directors of Agriculture in their taluks to get more details about the scheme and avail subsidy by submitting Aadhaar card, adangal, computer chitta, map and the certificate given by the tahsildar, in case of small and marginal farmers. They could do so online onwww.tnhorticulture.tn.gov. in/horti/mimisor submit the documents with the Assistant Director, he said. ‘Insure crops’ He urged banana growers of Ervadi, Moolaikkaraipatti, Nanguneri, Poolam, Vijayanarayanam, Munneerpallam, Radhapuram, Samooharengapuram, Thisaiyanvilai, Levingipuram, Pazhavoor, Panagudi and Valliyoor areas to insure their crop by paying a premium of Rs. 3,211 per acre before February 28. In case of crop loss, the farmers will get Rs. 64,220 per acre. It can be paid in the PACBs, nationalised banks or common service centres by submitting the application along with copies of first page of the bank passbook, chitta / patta and the adangal issued by the village administrative officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/paddy-raised-on-34845-ha-as-dams-have-97-storage/article33700968.ece
30 January 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Pension pay orders given ahead of retirement day||The Employees’ Provident Fund Organisation handed over pension pay orders to a few subscribers who retire from service on Sunday. The Union government, in a bid to ensure uninterrupted service delivery to the subscribers of EPFO, has introduced a scheme, ‘Prayaas,’ to give pension to the retiring EPFO subscribers on their date of retirement under this programme. Hence, the EPFO-Tirunelveli organised an event on its premises on Thursday to disburse the pension payment orders to the subscribers retiring on January 31. Subscribers Pappathi, Theivanai, Subbammal, Shenbaganatchiyar and Anandavalli - all employed with Muruga Home Industries, Surandai; P. Paramasivan and Samydoss of Madura Coats, Ambasamudram; Pasupathi Murugesan of Original Wax Matches, Serma Santha Seenivasan of Fauna International, and Paul Kani of K.M. Pillai, received their pension pay orders from V. Kalaichelvan, Assistant PF Commissioner. Mr. Kalaichelvan appealed to the employers to extend their cooperation for the successful implementation of this plan by duly following the pre-requisites required such as KYC of the employees, online updation of profile and nomination, advance payment of contribution dues for the retiring month, forwarding of pension claim in 10-D enclosing the additional documents as deemed necessary. Senior officers of EPFO – Tirunelveli S. Thilagar, R. Ramana Kesaha and Saraswathi were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pension-pay-orders-given-ahead-of-retirement-day/article33700970.ece
30 January 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Nurses stage protest, seek better pay||Wearing black badges, nurses of Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital staged a demonstration to highlight their charter of demands. Led by Manikandan, president of Tamil Nadu Government Nurses’ Association, the nurses raised slogans to highlight their demands. They said the State government should fix the pay scale and other perks on a par with their counterparts in Central government Hospitals and give five-stage promotion for nurses as being given by the Union government. The State government, as promised, should give one-month salary as incentive for their work during COVID-19 outbreak. Families of the nurses who succumbed to COVID-19 after contracting the virus while treating the patients should be compensated adequately. Moreover, a member of the affected family should be given government employment. Services of nurses who had beene serving for more than six years on consolidated pay should be regularised. Moreover, the system of giving consolidated pay should be abolished. With the number of patients coming to the government hospitals increasing sharply, the number of nurses should be increased commensurately. As the nurses returned to duty after staging the demonstration, the functioning of Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital was not affected.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nurses-stage-protest-seek-better-pay/article33700966.ece
30 January 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||PMK seeks 20% exclusive reservation for Vanniars||Demanding 20% reservation exclusively for Vanniyars in education and employment, Pattali Makkal Katchi cadres staged a demonstration in front of Tirunelveli railway junction on Friday.The protest was led by the party’s district secretary, Zion Thangaraj. In Tenkasi, the PMK cadres staged demonstration near the new bus stand while a similar agitation was organised in front of the Thoothukudi Collectorate also.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pmk-seeks-20-exclusive-reservation-for-vanniars/article33700981.ece
30 January 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Water level||Water level in Papanasam dam on Friday stood at 140.45 feet (permissible level is 143 ft.), with an inflow of 672.06 cusecs and a discharge of 794.75 cusecs. The level in Manimuthar dam was 116.85 ft. (118 ft.), with an inflow of 213 cusecs and a discharge of 445 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article33701349.ece
30 January 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Polio immunisation drive on Sunday||Nearly 2.8 lakh children below five years are set to be covered in the polio immunisation drive in Tiruppur district on January 31(Sunday), the District Administration said. According to a press release, a total of 1,154 centres, including 26 mobile units, will be set up across the district to administer polio vaccine free of cost. About 4,780 health workers along with volunteers from the Rotary Clubs will be involved in the campaign.     NGO Chandrans Yuva Foundation organised a women’s bike rally from Podanur to Pollachi on Tuesday. The participants carried placards with slogans on Republic Day and women empowerment, a release said. The NGO also recently conducted a welfare camp for tribal people at Kozhikamuthi within the Anamalai Tiger Reserve, which saw the participation of Inspector General of Police (West Zone) K. Periaiah, according to the release.       Pollachi MP K. Shanmugasundaram on Wednesday wrote to Union Railway Minister Piyush Goyal urging the resumption of Coimbatore-Rameswaram overnight express train, which was operated prior to the broad gauge conversion. The train was operational since the British era and enjoyed high patronage, the letter said. The train services must be resumed with stoppages at Kinathukadavu, Pollachi, Udumalpet, Palani, Madurai and Ramanathapuram, the MP said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/polio-immunisation-drive-on-sunday/article33700857.ece
30 January 2021||Tiruvannamalai,TAMIL NADU||Complaint boxes kept at Stalin’s meeting in Tiruvannamalai||Villagers thronged Tiruvannamalai to attend DMK’s outreach programme – ‘ Ungal Thogudhiyil Stalin ’ – held on Friday. DMK president M.K. Stalin addressed the gathering and many of the participants submitted petitions, with their long-pending grievances, in a drop box kept at the venue. The programme, intended to strike a chord with people from different sections of the society, was held in Ganesapuram in Tiruvannamalai town. It was attended by villagers from Kalasapakkam, Kilpenathur and Chengam. “More than 300 volunteers from the DMK youth wing sat at the entrance and helped people fill petitions with their address and contact numbers. Many of them had already brought the petitions in an envelope. All these were collected in a huge drop box kept at the venue,” said an organiser at the venue. Most of the grievances were about old-age pension, family disputes and pattas. “Most of it are long-pending issues,” said another organiser. While leaving the venue, Mr. Stalin sealed a box full of petitions and took the keys with him. “Your petitions are my petitions. These issues will be addressed in the first 100 days of DMK coming to power,” he said. Stalin honours three During the event, Mr. Stalin honoured K.V. Jeyasri, a Tamil teacher from Tiruvannamalai who won the Sahitya Akademi award 2019; R. Kannagi, 52, from Tiruvannamalai, who was conferred with the Tamil Nadu government’s Avvaiyar award and Vinisha Umashankar, who recently won the Children’s Climate Prize conferred by the Children’s Climate Foundation from Sweden, for her innovation — solar ironing cart.  More than 300 volunteers from the DMK youth wing sat at the entrance and helped people fill petitions||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/complaint-boxes-kept-at-stalins-meeting-in-tiruvannamalai/article33701293.ece
30 January 2021||Tiruvarur,TAMIL NADU||ADT 52 paddy’s non-lodging nature established during the recent rain||The non-lodging nature of ‘Aduthurai 52’ (ADT 52) paddy variety is said to have been re-established during this samba season as the delta region received unseasonal and unexpected heavy rain. Farmers in Polakudi village, Nannilam Taluk, Tiruvarur district who had taken up the cultivation of ADT 52 variety on a fairly larger area this season were taken aback as the sky opened up during December resulting in the fields getting flooded with rainwater. However, they heaved a sigh of relief on witnessing their efforts to drain rainwater from the fields churned out positive results as the standing crop did not lodge. Thus, the Tamil Nadu Rice Research Institute, Aduthurai, Thanjavur district, which had released this long-duration paddy variety for Maharashtra and Chhattisgarh States through the Central Variety Release Committee in 2018 decided to organise a Field Day for farmers to get enlightened about the advantages of cultivating this variety. The participating farmers, numbering around 60, were taken to the field where ADT 52 paddy crop was ready for harvest and a plot harvesting exercise was conducted to ascertain the expected yield on Wednesday. The plot harvest exercise gave out a result of 7,050 kilograms of paddy per hectare which is much higher than the field trial result of around 5,000 kilograms per hectare recorded by the Institute at the time of launching of this variety, sources said. Addressing the farmers, V. Ambethgar, director, TRRI, emphasised the importance of new rice varieties for different stress conditions due to climate changes and prophylactic measures to be adopted towards major pest attacks and diseases through rationalised and split application of fertilizers and crop boosters. Apart from highlighting the advantages in the cultivation of ADT 52 variety, latest production technologies of Rice Fallow Pulses were also explained to the participating farmers during the programme organised under the ICAR Seed Project HRD programme, sources added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/adt-52-paddys-non-lodging-nature-established-during-the-recent-rain/article33700942.ece
30 January 2021||Tiruvarur,TAMIL NADU||Stone pelting on farmers’ houses in Tiruvarur alleged||The Tamizhaga Anaithu Vivasayigal Sangangalin Orunginaippu Kuzhu (Tamil Nadu All Farmers Associations Coordination Committee) president, P. R. Pandian has claimed that for the past few days stones were pelted at night hours on the houses of farmers who had taken part in the tractor rally on Republic Day. In a statement issued here on Friday, the Coordination Committee president alleged that such incidents were taking place at the instance of police who had tried their level best to thwart the tractor rally held across the State on Republic Day. Claiming that the police, who always remain in good terms with the farming community were forced to adopt such measures as the Chief Minister, Edappadi K.Palaniswami, was supporting the three new farm laws enacted by the Union government, Mr. Pandian cautioned the Chief Minister against turning the police against farmers and urged him to release immediately farmers who were booked under various sections for participating in the protests. He had also demanded that the tractors seized by the police be handed over to the farmers concerned in view of the on going harvest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stone-pelting-at-farmers-houses-in-tiruvarur-alleged/article33700944.ece
30 January 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Rare dragonfly ‘rediscovered’ in the Nilgiris after 87 years||A dragonfly, Anaciaeschna martini , commonly known as Martin’s Duskhawker, has been ‘rediscovered’ in the Nilgiris after 87 years. The rediscovery of the species was published recently in the Journal of Threatened Taxa , titled ‘Rediscovery of Martin’s Duskhawker from Western Ghats, Peninsular India, with notes on its current distribution and oviposition behaviour.’ Interestingly, the record of this dragonfly in the Nilgiris could have gone completely unnoticed, if not for amateur enthusiasts sharing pictures of the insects they had been documenting in the Western Ghats. Manoj Sethumadhavan, a trustee from the Wynter-Blyth Association, a group of enthusiasts documenting the different species of insects, primarily butterflies and moths in the Nilgiris, said he had shared a picture of the Martin’s Duskhawker on a Facebook group. “Other naturalists like Dr. Kalesh Sadasivan, from the Travancore Natural History Society in Thiruvananthapuram saw the picture and went about trying to identify the dragonfly,” said Mr. Manoj, who co-authored the paper on the species’ rediscovery along with Kalesh Sadasivan, S. Jeevith and Baiju Kochunarayanan. The authors of the paper noted that the last record of Anaciaeschna martini in India was from 1933 from the Anamalai Hills. The species had been documented in the Nilgiris and in Munnar over the last few years. The distribution range for the species was Sri Lanka, Nepal, Peninsular India and Japan, they said. Speaking to The Hindu , Mr. Manoj Sethumadhavan noted that dragonflies, which belonged to an order of flying insects known as Odonata, were prime indicators of a healthy ecosystem. “The richness and wealth of the environment can be assessed by the presence or absence of these subtle species. Serious study of Odonates of the Western Ghats has gained momentum only recently, since the early part of the last decade. Apart from the scientific community, citizen-science initiatives are also now on to identify and conserve these little-known fauna of our region,” he said. The authors of the paper noted that the study of these lesser-known species could also serve as an indicator of how the Western Ghats landscape was being changed due to anthropogenic factors. “As A. martini is known to be a high-elevation species restricted to montane lakes and waterbodies, and known to inhabit grasslands and wet montane forests, any threats faced by Shola forests and grasslands could also impact species like the Martin’s Duskhawker,” said Mr. Sethumadhavan. The status of the species was possibly locally ‘not uncommon’, but may be rare altogether in the Western Ghats. Further studies of odonates occupying the montane lakes of Western Ghats could help identify the changing environment conditions of this threatened mountain ecosystem, said Dr. Kalesh Sadasivan in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rare-dragonfly-rediscovered-in-the-nilgiris-after-87-years/article33700845.ece
30 January 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Indian gaur dies of injuries likely to have been caused by explosive||A 10-year-old Indian gaur, that sustained grievous injuries to its jaw, suspected to be from a crude explosive, succumbed to its injuries on Thursday. The gaur was injured around a week prior to its death, and the Forest Department had been attempting to treat it, but with little success. This is the fourth such incident in the last few years, around Wellington in Coonoor, where Indian gaurs have been seriously injured by the explosives. N. Sadiq Ali, an environmentalist and founder of the Wildlife and Nature Conservation Trust (WNCT), said farmers living around the area were using crude explosives to target wild boars, known to crop raid. “Unfortunately, it is not just wild boar that are killed by these explosives, but also other herbivores such as the Indian gaur,” said Mr. Ali. He added that the use of such explosives had resulted in the death of other wildlife too in the district, such as elephants in Pandalur a few years back. “The Forest Department needs to use local informants to find farmers and residents using such explosives and track locations from where they are being brought. Offenders should be booked under the Explosive Substances Act to set an example and discourage such crimes from occurring,” he added. Special teams have been formed by the Department to look into the incident. Coonoor ranger S.M. Sasikumar said the Department had got permission to fit cameras in the area to monitor the movement of people. “We hope the cameras can help catch the perpetrators, or at least serve to discourage people from using explosives while trying to deal with wildlife endangering their crops,” said Mr. Sasikumar. He said a post-mortem was performed on the body of the gaur. He added that results were awaited to confirm the cause of death.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/indian-gaur-dies-of-injuries-likely-to-have-been-caused-by-explosive/article33700806.ece
30 January 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||18 fresh cases in Vellore||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 20,712 with 18 new cases reported on Friday. While a total of 20,260 persons have been discharged, the active cases stand at 104. The district's death toll is 348. In Ranipet district, three cases were reported positive taking the tally to 16,110. In Tirupattur district, the total number of positive cases stood at 7,566 with one new case on Friday. In Tiruvannamalai district, two new cases were reported, taking the total to 19,348. Out of this, 19,038 have been discharged and the active cases stand at 27.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/18-fresh-cases-in-vellore/article33701296.ece
30 January 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Anganwadi workers, ayahs demand time scale of pay||Hundreds of anganwadi workers and ayahs staged a demonstration at Virudhunagar Collectorate pressing for regularisation of service, time scale of pay, gratuity and pension. The protest was led by district president of Tamil Nadu Anganwadi Workers and Helpers Association P. Esther Rani. “After having put in 35 years of service, I get only Rs. 13,000 as monthly salary. The work of teachers like us does not end at anganwadi centres,” she said. The workers were responsible for enumeration of pregnant women, checking their health, registration of birth and death, distribution of nutritious food to pregnant women and children. “Over and above, we have to go for polio drops vaccination drive, revision of electoral rolls. With so much of work, when we retire, we get just Rs. 2,000 as pension. Can we buy gas cylinder and milk with that pension?” she said. The workers demanded that Rs. 10 lakh instead of Rs. 1 lakh gratuity should be given to the teachers and Rs. 5 lakh instead of Rs. 50,000 gratuity should be given to the ayahs. “It seems this government is neglecting women, as only they are employed in anganwadis,” she said. After the district-level demonstration at the Collectorates, the association has planned for a State-wide demonstration in Chennai on February 5.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/anganwadi-workers-demand-time-scale-of-pay-service-regularisation/article33700983.ece
30 January 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Plea to abolish new pension scheme||A group of government employees and teachers affiliated to Contributory Pension Scheme (CPS) Abolishment Movement on Friday staged a day-long hunger strike pressing to revoke new pension scheme. The protest was led by its district coordinator K. Muniyandi, who said that the protest was staged to remind the present government that it had promised twice to repeal the Contributory Pension Scheme. “Former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa, in 2016, announced in the well of the Assembly that her government will revoke CPS and constituted a committee to look into it. However, two years after the panel submitted its report, the State government has neither made the details of the report public nor kept its promise,” he said. Besides, the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam had made an election promise to do away with CPS and to re-introduce the old pension scheme, in 2016. Stating that around six lakh employees, teachers and those in uniformed services were affected by the NPS implemented with effect from April 1, 2003, Mr. Muniyandi said that since the Tamil Nadu government was yet to give its formal assent to NPS, it had a good opportunity to abolish it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/abolish-new-pension-scheme-say-govt-employees-teachers/article33700984.ece
30 January 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||2.5 lakh poultry birds to be vaccinated||The Department of Animal Husbandry will begin vaccination of backyard poultry, farm chicks and turkey against Ranikhet disease from February 1 to 14. A total of 2.50 lakh birds would be administered the vaccine by veterinary doctors at the villages, said Virudhunagar Collector R. Kannan. Though the disease, that leads to whitish diarrhoea among the poultry birds was not found in the district, the vaccination is being done as part of a State-wide programme, said Joint Director of Animal Husbandry S. Arunachalakani. He said that the birds affected by Ranikhet disease will have whitish diarrhoea followed by dullness and death. Stating that all the birds aged eight weeks and above should be vaccinated, the Collector appealed to the poultry farmers to make use of the opportunity to safeguard their birds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/25-lakh-poultry-birds-to-be-vaccinated/article33700975.ece
30 January 2021||VIRUDHUNAGAR,TAMIL NADU||Pulse Polio drive tomorrow||A total of 1.47 lakh children in the age group of 0 to 5 years in Virudhunagar district would be administered polio drops on Sunday. In a statement issued here on Friday, Collector R. Kannan said the National Pulse Polio vaccination drive would be held at 1,168 centres set up in government hospitals, Primary Health Centres, Health Sub Centres, Anganwadi centres, schools, and places of worship. Administration of oral drops would begin at 7 a.m. and go on till 5 p.m. Besides, 46, mobile centres would be set up to cover railway stations, cinema houses, lodges and crowded places to vaccinate children on the move. Even if the oral drops were given as per the schedule, parents should ensure that the vaccination was given on Sunday also. Similarly, immaterial of the children having slight fever, cold, cough, diarrhoea, the vaccine should be administered, the statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/147-lakh-children-to-be-covered-in-pulse-polio-drive/article33700976.ece
30 January 2021||January 30 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||21 cases in Salem district||A total of 21 COVID-19 positive cases were reported in Salem on Friday. According to health officials, all cases were indigenous, including eight in Salem Corporation limits. According to a bulletin, a 83-year-old man died at Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital in Salem. Erode district reported 20 new cases, taking the district’s tally to 14,325. While three persons were discharged, 193 continue to be under treatment. In Namakkal, six indigenous cases were reported. Coimbatore district reported one death and 57 new cases, taking the overall tally to 54,282. A 47-year-old man who was under treatment for the disease died, and the district’s toll reached 671, the Health Department said. The district at present has 429 active cases and 53 patients were discharged from various treatment centres in the district on Friday. Tiruppur district reported 21 fresh cases, and the overall tally rose 17,850.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/21-cases-in-salem-district/article33700991.ece
30 January 2021||January 30 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Protests demanding separate quota for Vanniyar community||Urging the State government to provide 20% separate reservation for the Vanniyar community in education and jobs, cadre of Pattali Makkal Katchi took out a rally and staged a demonstration near the Erode Collectorate on Friday. Over 400 cadres, including women, took out the rally from GH Roundabout to the Collectorate during which they held party flags and raised slogans demanding reservation for their community members. They said that the Vanniyar community is the largest among the backward communities and denying 20% reservation in education and in government jobs is denial of justice. They said that their demand for caste-wise census was also denied by the State government, which, instead formed a committee. They said that they have every right to demand reservation for their community and urged the government not to deny their rights any more. Later, they submitted a petition to Collector C. Kathiravan and left. Salem Members of the Pattali Makkal Katchi conducted a massive protest in front of the Collectorate. Close to 4,500 cadres of the party gathered and raised slogans demanding that the State government fulfil long-standing demand of the party to provide reservation for the community. Cadres of the party from different parts of the district gathered at the place leading to traffic congestion at the Collectorate junction. The partymen were led by State organising secretary M.K. Selvakumar and deputy joint secretary R. Arul. The protesters said that they are not fighting for reservation not just for Vanniyar community but for all communities based on caste-based population. Krishnagiri Cadres of PMK staged a protest demonstration outside the Collectorate demanding quota within quota for Vanniyars. The party had called upon Vanniyars from other political parties other than the PMK to take part in the protests with their party flags as an expression of solidarity.However, there were no participants from other parties. The protests were underlined as a demand for social justice for Vanniyars and that reservations within the MBC quota would not undercut into the reservations of other backward castes and scheduled castes and general category. In Dharmapuri, PMK cadres staged a protest outside the Collectorate. However, in a stray attack allegedly by some of the protesters, a youth was injured and left with a bleeding head. The young man, reportedly mentally challenged, was beaten up because he was allegedly sporting a knife. The victim was tended to by the police gathered there. One of the policemen was seen holding the youth’s bleeding head with a towel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/protests-demanding-separate-quota-for-vanniyar-community/article33700998.ece
30 January 2021||January 30 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Staff nurses stage protest at CMCH||Staff nurses working at the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital (CMCH) staged a demonstration wearing black badges here on Friday demanding the one-month’s special pay promised by the State government. State vice-president of Tamil Nadu Government Nurses Association P. Tharakeswari, who led the protest, said that the Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami had announced in March 2020 that one-month’s special pay would be given for healthcare workers on COVID-19 duty. However, none of the staff nurses had received it so far, she alleged. Other demands Their other demands include converting contract nurses into permanent employees, pay hike, time-bound promotions and hiring more nurses to meet the staff shortage in government hospitals. The demonstration was held from 7 a.m. to 8 a.m. Similar demonstrations will be held every day in a manner that will not affect the patients as nurses working in COVID-19 ward and intensive care units will not participate, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/staff-nurses-stage-protest-at-cmch/article33700854.ece
30 January 2021||January 30 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Prisoner dies on way to hospital||A convict serving life imprisonment in the Coimbatore Central Prison died on the way to hospital on Friday. Police sources identified the deceased as P. Murugasamy (43) from Udumalpet in Tiruppur district. He was sentenced to life imprisonment in a Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act case in 2019. On Friday, he experienced difficulty in breathing and used an asthma inhaler, following which he became unconscious. He was escorted by the police personnel to Coimbatore Medical College Hospital, where was declared as brought dead, according to the sources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/prisoner-dies-on-way-to-hospital/article33700858.ece
30 January 2021||January 30 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||ERODE||Dr. R.A.N.M. Arts and Science College: 23rd Graduation Day, V. Naganathan, Chief Conservator of Forests (Research), State Forest Research Institute, Chennai, chief guest, 11 a.m.  RD College of Arts and Science: Webinar on Academic and Scholarly Writing, Neha Soman, Research Scholar, Department of English, Bharathiar University, Coimbatore, resource person, 10 a.m.  Meenakshi School of Fine Arts: Online workshop on 3D drawing of Floating Ball, 11 a.m. to 1 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/erode/article33700992.ece
30 January 2021||Begnaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Bike thief’ arrested||Probing the case of a two-wheeler theft report from Magadi Road on January 25, the police have arrested Ranjith, also from the same area, for the theft. With his arrest, the police said they have cracked two other two-wheeler theft cases. They recovered three two-wheelers from him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bike-thief-arrested/article33700768.ece
30 January 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Memorandum signed||BLDE Education Society has entered into a memorandum of understanding with Hubballi-based Deshpande Foundation for skill training and making students job-ready. This MoU will enable BLDE Society’s colleges to organise the Deshpande Skilling and Leaders Accelerating Development Programme to develop leadership skills among students. It will make them respond to social problems with innovative solutions. It will also help students pick up vocational and communication skills that could make them industry-ready. The MoU will inspire students to become entrepreneurs and innovators. It will help them find technological solutions to industrial problems.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/memorandum-signed/article33701014.ece
30 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Two Ministers incited Council chaos: report||Blaming Deputy Chief Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan and Minor Irrigation Minister J.C. Madhuswamy for the pandemonium in the Legislative Council on December 15, 2020, a three-member House Committee, headed by Marithibbe Gowda, in its interim report has recommended the barring of several members, belonging to various parties, from participating in House proceedings for a period ranging from one to two sessions. Condemning the behaviour of two senior Ministers on that day, the committee, whose report was tabled in the House on Friday, has pinned the blame on them for inciting the chaos. It also stated that it was not proper for them to hold any government post. The committee has also recommended barring another Minister, Kota Srinivas Poojary, for two legislative sessions and felt that he, too, should not discharge any responsible position in the government. It has identified Mr. Poojary for inciting Arun Shahapur. Congress members, including Opposition chief whip M. Narayanaswamy, Nazeer Ahmed, Srinivas V. Mane, and Prakash K. Rathod, have been recommended for being barred from one legislative session for physically dragging S.L. Dharme Gowda and kicking the door that had been closed by ruling party members. Congress member Chandrashekar B. Patil, who sat on the chair during the fracas, has also been recommended for a one-session ban.   The House committee was formed to probe the chaos in the Legislative Council during the winter session after the ruling BJP members seated the then Deputy Chairman — the late Dharme Gowda — on the chair even before the quorum bell had stopped ringing. Dharme Gowda was physically pulled out of the chair by Congress members, even as the ruling BJP members pushed him back. The ruling party members had closed the door to prevent the entry of Chairman K. Prathapachandra Shetty, against whom they had moved a no-confidence motion that was rejected. After watching visuals of the events and hearing the accounts of marshals and others, the committee has sought an inquiry by a retired High Court judge on the lapses committed by Legislative Council Secretary K.R. Mahalakshmi, besides keeping her out of the session till the committee gave its final recommendation. The committee felt that the Secretary had failed to discharge her duties according to the rules. The report has recommended the dropping of charges against Dharme Gowda since he is now deceased. Mr. Shetty had formed a five-member committee to go into the unprecedented chaos in the Upper House. However, the two BJP members — A.H. Vishwanath and S.V. Sankanur — withdrew, leaving Congress members B.K. Hariprasad and R.B. Thimmapur in the panel, besides Mr. Marithibbe Gowda of the JD(S). BJP’s stand While BJP Ministers have indicated that the State government will not acknowledge the report for its lack of legal sanctity, the report cites the Additional Law Secretary who has termed the committee legally set up by the Chairman using residuary powers under Rule 342.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-ministers-incited-council-chaos-report/article33700783.ece
30 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HAL aircraft, U.S. bomber at Aero India||This edition of Aero India, beginning February 3 at Air Force Station, Yelahanka, will not only see integrated flying of Surya Kiran and Sarang aerobatics team, but also also feature flying and static display of indigenous aircraft from the HAL stable. Among other highlights is a ‘fly-by’ by B-1B bomber of the U.S. Air Force, and flying display of Airborne Early Warning & Control (AEW&C) system, Light Combat Aircraft (LCA) Tejas and LCA Navy of the DRDO. The B-1B, a supersonic heavy bomber that carries largest conventional payload of guided and unguided weapons, belongs to the 28th Bomb wing based out of Ellsworth Air Base in South Dakota. A release from the U.S. Embassy said the U.S. team will be led by Don Heflin, U.S. Charge d’Affaires, and leading U.S. defence companies will take part.  HAL’s show Titled ‘Aatmanirbhar Formation Flight’, HAL will showcase LCA trainer (LIFT Trainer), HTT-40, IJT, Advanced Hawk Mk 132 and Civil Do-228 in special formation showcasing the spectrum of trainers and signifying self-sufficiency in the trainer segment. A release said that HTT-40, Advanced Hawk Mk132 and Civil DO-228 will also be available for customer demonstration flight. It said that Sukhoi 30 MKI, Advanced Light Helicopter (ALH) Dhruv, Light Combat Helicopter (LCH), Light Utility Helicopter (LUH) will also take part in the flying display. Static display will include Do 228, Hindustan Turbo Trainer (HTT)-40 and LUH and ALH Mk III, the release added. The outdoor display will feature Rotary wing products such as LCH, ALH Mk IV Rudra and ALH Civil variant. An interesting display will be the Combat Air Teaming System (CATS) simulator that will have TEJAS-MAX cockpit as the mothership platform with embedded air teaming intelligence concepts to demonstrate to engage in the mission, the release added. With the central theme of India Pavillion being Rotary wing capabilities in India, the release said scaled models of IMRH, ALH, LUH, LCH will be displayed.  DRDO products The DRDO, which has more than 30 laboratories connected to aeronautical development, will exhibit over 300 products and technologies. According to DRDO, its displays will also include Nirbhay missile and P-16 Heavy Drop Systems. Besides the missiles, technology sub-systems like RF Seeker, IIR Seeker, PINAKA Guidance Kit, Model of rail track rocket sled (RTRS) facility and exploder for naval warheads will also be on display.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hal-aircraft-us-bomber-at-aero-india/article33700785.ece
30 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||On track with cycle lanes||Cycling on the busy Racecourse Road and Raj Bhavan Road in the central business district (CBD) will now be a breeze. While the cycle lane on the footpath between R.C. College and turf club is ready, painting work on the track on the Raj Bhavan Road is being taken up. Both these roads are part of the 5-km stretch from Minsk Square, Raj Bhavan Road, to Basaveshwara Circlethat is being developed by the Bengaluru Smart City Ltd. (BSCL). The dedicated footpath with cycle track and tactile pavement track was to have been completed in November last year. The BSCL had planned to create cycle lanes on 30-km of roads in the CBD. According to BSCL managing director Rajendra Cholan, the Directorate of Urban Land Transport (DULT), which has provided the design for the cycle lanes, is conducting field study to identify roads where these lanes could be created. “DULT has submitted drawings for 14 roads already. However, in some cases, the road width is less, for which a discussion with the traffic police is essential before the proposal can be approved,” he said. Meanwhile, the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) is also working on cycle tracks on a 35-km stretch between Silk Board and Lowry Junction, as part of the Non-Motorised Transit project, for which Rs. 51 crore has been earmarked. BBMP’s initiatives Senior officials in the BBMP’s Road Infrastructure Department told The Hindu that 5-km on this stretch between Lowry Junction and Mahadevapura is ready. Work is under progress between Silk Board and Iblur Junction, the official said. “While the footpath development work has been completed, asphalting work for the cycle track is under progress, following which bollards will be fixed,” he said. Also in the pipeline is a cycle track from Lowry Junction to Trinity Circle and a loop from 80-feet Road near Old Madras Road to Domlur flyover. “Work on these stretches will be taken up after those under progress are completed, based on availability of funds and permission from the Police Department,” he said. The cycling community is hoping that agencies will complete the projects within the deadlines. Sathya Sankaran, Bengaluru’s bicycle mayor, said that once work on the cycle tracks are complete, signboards would have to be put up. “We will coordinate with the traffic police, and request them to issue a notification prohibiting parking of vehicles on cycle lanes and ensure that vehicles don’t use the dedicated track,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/on-track-with-cycle-lanes/article33700763.ece
30 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||School managements unhappy with govt. decision on fees||The Department of Primary and Secondary Education’s decision to allow schools to collect only 70% of the tuition fees charged in the last academic year has not gone down well with private schools. Despite the government saying that fees they will be allowed to collect can cover the salaries of teaching and non-teaching staff, managements say otherwise. “Many parents have not paid this year’s fee or even last year’s amount. So, if a few parents pay 70% of the tuition fees, it will not be sufficient for us to pay our staff their full salary. The government has not even issued an advisory urging parents who had not paid the fees to clear the dues,” said D. Shashi Kumar, general secretary of the Associated Managements of Primary and Secondary Schools in Karnataka. Many school managements had voluntarily slashed fees while others had devised ways to help families of students who were in financial distress. Mansoor Ali Khan, general secretary, Management of Independent CBSE Schools Association, also expressed disappointment in the “arbitrary decision of the department”. “School managements will challenge this decision in court as the department has not considered the plight of budget schools and their financial health. Many schools will eventually be forced to shut down,” he said. Many top private schools said they had invested innew infrastructure for online classes. Nooraine Fazal, founder-director of Inventure Academy, said the move was disrespectful to all parents, teachers, and school managements who have worked 24x7 on children’s well-being despite campuses being closed. She also wondered if the government would waive 30% of the taxes or cut school costs accordingly. However, a small number of schools have welcomed the move. Lokesh Talikatte, State unit president of the Recognised Unaided Private Schools’ Association, Karnataka, said “We do not want to make profit this year and want to ensure that there is continuity in our students’ education.” B.N. Yogananda, member, Karnataka State Private Schools Parents Associations Coordination Committee, said the parents would withdraw the protest they had scheduled for Sunday. Admissions Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar said he would discuss with officials on whether admissions to private schools for the 2020–21 academic year, which were temporarily halted, should be reopened now that a decision on fees had been taken.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/school-managements-unhappy-with-govt-decision-on-fees/article33700772.ece
30 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Schools can charge parents only 70% of tuition fees: Minister||The Department of Primary and Secondary Education has reduced the fees that managements of private schools can collect from parents for the current 2020-2021 academic year. They can collect only 70% of the tuition fees that they had collected last year (2019-20), said S. Suresh Kumar, Primary and Secondary Education Minister at a press conference on Friday. The fee cut will be applicable to schools affiliated with the State and central boards. If parents have already paid the entire amount, schools should either give them a refund or adjust the amount with next year’s fee. “Parents should be given the option of paying the fees in two or three installments,” said Mr. Suresh Kumar, while noting that the State government had the authority to prescribe fees based on the Karnataka Education Act 1983 and also under certain clauses in the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897. School managements are unhappy with this decision given that at the start of the academic year, the government had only stated that they could not increase fees compared to the previous year. However, the government’s decision has brought some measure of relief to parents who had been protesting across the State citing financial constraints brought about by the pandemic. For the past several months, parents’ associations had been demanding government intervention especially as many private schools were refusing students who hadn’t paid their fees access to online classes. S.R. Umashankar, Principal Secretary of the department, said that the amount schools can collect by way of tuition fees will cover the salaries of their teaching and non teaching staff and also include library, sports, and laboratory fees. “For this academic year, schools will not be allowed to accept donations or charge optional fees for extra curricular activities such as transport or swimming fees,” he said. Mr. Suresh Kumar justified the decision to cap the amount schools can charge on the grounds that they did not conduct classes on campus from June to December 2020, as a result of which their recurring expenditure was reduced. “The decision was taken after the Commissioner for Public Instruction (CPI) held several rounds of meetings with stakeholders including parents and school managements,” said Mr. Suresh Kumar. If parents have any grievances against the school, they can approach committees that will be formed for this purpose at the district level.   If parents have already paid the entire amount, schools should either give them a refund or adjust the amount with next year’s fee||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/schools-can-charge-only-70-of-tuition-fees-minister/article33700755.ece
30 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Bill tabled to protect depositors in financial firms||With increased instances of fraudulent transactions by financial firms surfacing, the Karnataka Protection of Interest of Depositors in Financial Establishments (Amendment) Bill, 2020, was tabled in the Legislative Assembly on Friday to authorise the State government to investigate complaints of such transactions. The Bill empowers the government to appoint one competent authority in cases pertaining to any financial establishment that is spread over more than one district. It also enables the secretary of the Revenue Department to extend the time limit for filing applications in the special court for orders to attach properties of firms indulging in fraudulent transactions. The Bill seeks to empower special courts to assess the value of attached assets and facilitate their sale expeditiously. There would be a recurring expenditure of Rs. 1.5 crore as per the proposed legislative measure. The Bill also enables the government to utilise the services of the e-auction platform, empanelled agencies, official liquidators, and valuers approved by any nationalised bank for valuation of assets. The Karnataka Municipalities and Certain Other Law (Amendment) Bill, 2021, was also tabled in the Assembly to extend the time limit for payment of property tax and to provide rebate of 5% if tax is paid within one month from the date of commencement of the amendment Act.   The Karnataka Municipalities (Second Amendment) Bill, 2021, was introduced to revise the existing property tax structure and provide a simplified property tax base, improve revenue in municipalities by linking property tax base to the prevailing guidelines under Section 45B of the Karnataka Stamps Act, 1957, and bring about property tax reforms. It replaces an Ordinance. It envisages an increase in property tax by 3% for every financial year in which no revision of guidance value is made.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bill-tabled-to-protect-depositors-in-financial-firms/article33700776.ece
30 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Pranesh elected Dy. Chairman of Council||BJP member M.K. Pranesh was elected Deputy Chairman of the Legislative Council on Friday. He defeated senior member and Congress nominee K.C. Kondaiah. Mr. Pranesh polled 41 votes, against the 24 polled by Mr. Kondaiah. His election had become certain after the Janata Dal (S) extended its support to the BJP in exchange for the Chairman’s post. Basavaraj Horatti of the JD(S) is expected to contest for the Chairman’s post when it falls vacant. Eight members were absent during polling. Soon after his election, Mr. Pranesh said he would work through consensus and take all members along.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pranesh-elected-dy-chairman-of-council/article33700781.ece
30 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HC to BBMP: Survey religious structures on both private, public properties||The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) will have to survey all types of religious structures, existing both on public and private properties in the city as the High Court of Karnataka on Friday declined to accept even a second survey conducted by the BBMP to identify religious structures put up illegally on public properties. How can you identify illegal religious structures on public properties without surveying religious structures on private properties, which could have encroached upon public properties such as footpath and roads, the court asked BBMP Commissioner N. Manjunath Prasad, who was directed to personally present before the court through videoconference. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Sachin Shankar Magadum made these observations during the hearing of a PIL petition initiated suo motu by the court to monitor the steps taken by the State government to implement the apex court’s directions. Mr. Prasad informed the Bench that he held a detailed discussion with officials, and got a fresh survey conducted between January 21 and 23 involving staff of both the engineering and revenue departments of the BBMP, and it was found that there are about 1,588 illegal religious structures in the city and 1,337 of them were put up prior to September 29, 2009, when the apex court issued directions to deal with such structures. The Bench orally asked him how the survey can be accurate without surveying all types of religious structures whether they are built on public or private properties. Interestingly, in the first survey only 106 illegal religious structures were found on public properties and the court had described that even a child would not believe that the city has only such a small number of illegal structures. Giving time till February 26 for the BBMP to submit fresh details of illegal religious structures as per the apex court’s directions, the Bench also asked the civic body to submit an action plan to deal with such structures.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hc-to-bbmp-survey-religious-structures-on-both-private-public-properties/article33700764.ece
30 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Will bring in separate sand policy for coastal region’||The government will introduce a separate sand policy for the coastal region of Karnataka, as per the long-standing demand of the people of that region, said Mines and Geology Minister Murugesh Nirani on Friday. In his reply to U.T. Khader of the Congress in the Legislative Assembly during Question Hour, Mr. Nirani said the policy would be introduced to help the people of Udupi, Dakshina Kannada, and Uttara Kannada districts. “Construction activities have been affected in many parts of the State because of shortage of sand. The government will take steps to prevent such problems in any part of the State,” Mr. Nirani said. The Minister also said the Coastal Regulation Zone (CRZ) authority has been instructed to clear 13 sand mounds located along riverbeds coming under CRZ in 2020-21. The seven-member District Sand Monitoring Committee, headed by the Deputy Commissioner, will issue temporary permits to 104 applicants to extract sand from 13 sand mounds for one year. The Minister added that action was taken to clear sandmounds as per the instructions of the Union Environment, Forest and Climate Change Ministry. The Mines and Geology Department would consider only those having temporary permits to clear the sand mounds of 2011-12 and a couple of years prior to that along the riverbedsin the CRZ.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/will-bring-in-separate-sand-policy-for-coastal-region/article33700779.ece
30 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||D.J. Halli violence: Claims invited on loss, damage, govt. tells HC||The State government on Friday told the High Court of Karnataka that a public notice has been published in newspapers in English and Kannada on January 28 inviting claims on loss and damages caused to public and private properties during the August 11, 2020, violence that occurred in D.J. Halli-K.G. Halli localities. A submission in this regard has been made before a Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Sachin Shankar Magadum during the hearing of a batch of PIL petitions. The claims will have to submitted to the authorised officer in the Office of the Claims Commissioner, housed in Room numbers 1 and 2, 1st floor, Balabrooie Guest House, Palace Road, Bengaluru, in multiple modes - in person, by registered post, and through courier service on or before February 28. Citizens can submit audio, video or other recordings from private and public sources to the Claims Commissioner to pinpoint the damages and the nexus between the perpetrators of the crime along with a written statement containing name, address, phone number, e-mail ID accompanied by an affidavit throwing light on contents in the recordings, and a list of witnesses to be examined by the Commissioner. The public notice has also asked the government agencies and police machinery to submit audio, video and other recordings available with them related to the acts of causing damages to public, or private properties.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dj-halli-violence-claims-invited-on-loss-damage-govt-tells-hc/article33700786.ece
30 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Did Bescom take BBMP nod to install transformers on footpaths, asks HC||The High Court of Karnataka on Friday directed the Bangalore Electricity Supply Company Ltd. (Bescom) to clarify whether it had taken permission from the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) to install electricity transformers on footpaths across the city. Also, the court told the BBMP to take a clear stand on transformers installed on footpaths as the High Court, in a PIL petition, had directed the BBMP to keep the footpaths free for pedestrian movements and clean as the law vests right and obligation on footpaths with the BBMP. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Sachin Shankar Magadum issued the directions while hearing a PIL petition filed by Wing Commander G.B. Athri (retd). The petitioner had complained that authorities had failed to remove and relocate transformers and other electrical installations from footpaths and roadside drains. The Bescom, in its response to the petition has stated that are 8,659 distribution transformer centres located on footpaths, road, etc in the city and out this 4,035 transformers were found causing hindrance to public. Already, 3,196 such transfers were replaced with single-pole transformers to ensure safety of public and to reduce footprint of transformers on footpaths. The Bench also directed Bescom to explain whether any opinion from experts were taken prior to installing transformer at a seven feet height in a spun pole to ensure safety of public. Denying the allegation that Bescom has encroached upon footpaths and storm-water drains, it has claimed that Bescom erected transformers as per the provisions of the Electricity Act, 2003 and the Telegraph Act, 1885. “Bescom is taking all measures to prevent any type of accidents or hazard due to electrical and transformers on the footpath and roads, including changing the distribution transformer centres and laying the cables underground in phased manner. Therefore, though there are risks associated with erection of transformers on footpaths, same are essential and cannot be removed as there is no other alternative measure,” the Bescom pointed out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/did-bescom-take-bbmp-nod-to-install-transformers-on-footpaths-asks-hc/article33700760.ece
30 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Pulse Polio: Over 64 lakh children to be covered||The State is all set to administer polio vaccine to a targeted 64,07,930 children below the age of five starting January 31, following all COVID-19 appropriate behaviour. COVID-19 vaccination will not be taken up on this day and on mop-up round days in government hospitals, said Health and Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar. Pulse Polio immunisation campaign that was supposed to be held on January 17 had been postponed in view of COVID-19 vaccination roll out on January 16. Addressing presspersons, the Minister said this year, there would be only one round of the Pulse Polio immunisation campaign. Till now, the immunisation campaign was held in two phases every year. While 32,908 booths have been set up across the State where parents take their children for polio vaccination, as many as 49,338 teams have been formed comprising 1,10,179 vaccinators. The vaccination drive between 8 a.m. and 5 p.m. includes door-to-door outreach programmes. To help tourists, commuters and those in transit, the Health Department has also set up vaccination booths with 1,934 transit teams at railway stations, bus stops, metro stations, and airports. For those who miss out on January 31, there will be a mop-up round from February 1 to 3. “Under routine immunisation programme, every child is given five doses of oral polio vaccine (OPV) and two doses of inactivated injectable polio vaccine (IPV) and the State is committed that no child should miss these doses,” the Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pulse-polio-over-64-lakh-children-to-be-covered/article33700765.ece
30 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Tentative schedule out||The Department of Pre-University Education (DPUE) has announced the tentative timetable for the second year Pre-University (PU) course examination, which was postponed due to COVID-19. According to the tentative schedule, the examination will begin on May 24 and conclude on June 24. They will be scheduled between 10.15 a.m. and 1.30 p.m. The pandemic had upset the academic calendar for schools and colleges. It was only on January 1 that II PU students started attending classes on campus. If students have any objections, they can write to the Joint Director examinations, DPUE Malleswaram, Bengaluru, before February 6 or email the authorities atjdexam@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ii-pu-exam-tentative-schedule-out/article33700758.ece
30 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Lokayukta issues directive on minimum wages||LokayuktaP. Vishwanatha Shetty issued directions to the Labour Department to ensure all outsourced employees working for the State government and in various institutions of the State are paid minimum wages. “Details of agencies that have supplied labour to government agencies need to be recorded, and any default on their part on payment of ESI, PF, and other benefits should lead to their disqualification and take steps not to renew their licence for future years,” he said in his order. Mr. Shetty recommended that a system be put in place where government departments report on the agencies they have roped in and the number of employees engaged through outsourcing every year. He suggested that the Labour Commissioner form a committee of experts to finalise guidelines for outsourcing of employees, including those suggested by him, in eight weeks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/lokayukta-issues-directive-on-minimum-wages/article33700766.ece
30 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Horatti, Pranesh blamed||Newly elected Deputy Chairman of the Council, M.K. Pranesh, has also been blamed for playing a part in the December 15, 2020, chaos and closing the door through which the Chairman usually enters the Council hall. Terming this “unparliamentary behaviour”, the panel has recommended that he be barred from two legislative sessions. Janata Dal (S) member Basavaraj Horatti, the most senior member of the House who is also tipped to replace Chairman K. Prathapachandra Shetty, has been accused of “making the Deputy Chairman sit in the chair in violation of the House rules”. He has also been identified to have asked the members who surrounded the chair to move out so that proceedings could start with the Deputy Chairman in the chair. The committee has recommended that he, along with members K.T. Srikantegowda and Govindaraj, be barred for two sessions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/horatti-pranesh-blamed/article33700782.ece
30 January 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Phone-in programme today||Bangalore Water Supply and Sewerage Board will hold a phone-in programme on Saturday between 9 a.m and 10.30 a.m. According to a BWSSB release, the board’s Chairman will interact with consumers on water billing, manhole overflowing, meter reading issues, improper water supply, and sanitary issues, among other issues. Members of the public can call 080-22945119 to participate in the programme. Consumers are required to share their R.R. number details before raising a complaint, the release stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/phone-in-programme-today/article33700761.ece
30 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Five university Bills tabled||Five Bills related to universities, including three private ones, were tabled in the Assembly on Friday. The Bengaluru Dr. B R Ambedkar School of Economics University (Amendment) Bill, 2021, was introduced to rename the university as Dr. B.R. Ambedkar School of Economics University, Bengaluru. The University of Horticultural Sciences (Amendment) Bill, 2020, was tabled to reduce the number of members in the board of management of the University of Horticultural Sciences, Bagalkot, as per the directions of the Indian Council of Agricultural Research. Sri Jagadhguru Murugarajendra University Bill, 2020, was tabled to establish a private university in the name of Sri Jagadhguru Murugarajendra by Sri Jagadhguru Murugarajendra Vidhyapeetha Trust, Chitradurga. The Vidya Shilpa University Bill, 2020, was tabled to establish a private university by Vidyanidhi Education Trust, Bengaluru. And the Atriya University Bill, 2020, was introduced to set up a private varsity by the A.S. Kupparaju and Brothers Charitable Foundation Trust, Bengaluru.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/five-university-bills-tabled/article33700777.ece
30 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Notification issued on number of councillors||More than a month after the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike Bill, 2020, was passed by the State legislature, the government issued two notifications — one on the number of councillors and another on delimitation — on Friday. The number of councillors in the BBMP will be 243 with immediate effect. With the number of wards increased from 198 to 243, the delimitation exercise will have to be taken up. For this, a notification has been issued constituting a four-member Delimitation Commission. The commission, with a tenure of six months, will be headed by the BBMP Commissioner. The Supreme Court has issued a stay on the Karnataka High Court order on holding polls to the BBMP council.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/notification-issued-on-number-of-councillors/article33700767.ece
30 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Consider teachers as COVID warriors for vaccination’||Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar has requested the Prime Minister and Union Health and Family Welfare Minister to consider schoolteachers as COVID warriors and ensure that they are vaccinated on priority. In the letter to the Prime Minister on Friday, Mr. Kumar said teachers have worked as COVID warriors on the frontline and also in containment zones. “They even visited households to collect data and create awareness among the public. As schools have reopened now and teachers are returning to schools and coming in contact with children, it is need of the hour to vaccinate them,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/consider-teachers-as-covid-warriors-for-vaccination/article33700770.ece
30 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Security tightened at Israeli consulate||Security has been tightened at all Israeli establishments, including the Consulate General of Israel in Bengaluru and an Israel visa facilitation centre in view of a blast outside the Israeli Embassy in Delhi on Friday evening, Bengaluru Police Commissioner Kamal Pant said. The minor IED blast took place outside the Israeli Embassy in Delhi; no one was injured. Israeli establishments in the city have earlier been targets of multiple low-intensity terror attacks. The National Investigation Agency (NIA) that probed the Church Street Blast case — a low intensity bomb that went off outside a restaurant killing a pedestrian on December 28, 2014 — alleged an Israeli delegation that was supposed to visit the restaurant was the target of the attack. The NIA arrested Alam Jeb Afridi, a SIMI member hailing from Ahmedabad and who had been at large for over five years then, from the outskirts of the city for his alleged role in the Church Street blast. The investigation had revealed that he had carried out two arson attacks against the visa facilitation centre in the city before and after the Church Street blast.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/security-tightened-at-israeli-consulate/article33700773.ece
30 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Fine or jail time||The Karnataka Epidemic Diseases (Amendment) Bill, 2020, was introduced in the Legislative Assembly on Friday to impose a fine of up to Rs. 50,000 or imprisonment for three months, or both, on those violating the rules and regulations under the Act. The Bill assumes significance in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic. Health and Family Welfare Minister K. Sudhakar tabled the Bill.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/fine-or-jail-time/article33700778.ece
30 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Stalls for GI products||Karnataka boasts of a total of 42 products that have been included in the Geographical Indication (GI) of goods list. This is out of 370 goods have been given GI tag in the country. Separate stalls for GI goods would be set up at the Bengaluru and other airports in the State for their promotion, said Major and Medium Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar on Friday in the Assembly. He was replying to Abhaya Prasad of the Congress.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/stalls-for-gi-products/article33700787.ece
30 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Arecanut categorised wrongly, says Minister||Arecanut has been wrongly included in the list of narcotics and drugs and will be removed from the list soon, Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai informed the Legislative Assembly on Friday. In his reply during Zero Hour to members representing the arecanut-growing region of the State, Mr. Bommai said the mistake that has occurred by including arecanut in the list of narcotics and drugs would be set right soon. H. Halappa, Araga Jnanendra, and M.P. Kumaraswamy, all ruling BJP members, sought a clarification from the government on the matter as the price of arecanut crashed by Rs. 2,000 per quintal in the market following media reports. They demanded government compensation for the losses incurred by growers following the crash in price. Arecanut is grown in 12 districts in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/arecanut-categorised-wrongly-says-minister/article33700788.ece
30 January 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||‘No change in retirement age’||Karnataka State Government Employees Association president C.S. Shadakshari has said there was no proposal before the State government to alter the employees’ retirement age. In a press release issued in Shivamogga on Friday, Mr. Shadakshari said the reports suggesting that the government was considering to retire officials at age of 60 years or after completing 33 years of service, which is earlier, were baseless. “There is no need to worry about such reports. There is no such a proposal before the government”, he said. He has also thanked the governmnent for allowing the encashment of earned leaves of the employees for the year 2021. This facility was stopped earlier due to the economic crisis following COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/no-change-in-retirement-age/article33701229.ece
30 January 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||SP warns against illegal liquor, gutka sale||Hassan Superintendent of Police R. Srinivasa Gowda has said the district police will take stern action against those into the illegal sale of liquor and gutka and those who drive vehicle under the influence of alcohol. He gave this assurance to people who called him during the phone-in programme he held in his office on Friday. Many of the complaints he received were related to the illegal sale of liquor and gutka. A few people appealed to the SP to take action against those do rash and negligent driving. He received calls from Channarayapatna, Sakleshpur, Arkalugd and Hassan taluks. A couple of people draw his attention to traffic problems in their towns. A caller from Channarayapatna requested the officer to address the problems with the traffic signal system at Navodaya Circle in the town. He assured the public that the private shops that had come up encroaching upon the footpaths would be removed. Senior officers of the department were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sp-warns-against-illegal-liquor-gutka-sale/article33701226.ece
30 January 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||ST tag: ‘Struggle by Kurubas will continue’||The struggle has been to get the Scheduled Tribe tag for Kuruba community, not to make any person a leader of the community, said former Minister and MLC H.M. Revanna. He spoke to presspersons during a visit to Hassan on Friday. The community had been fighting for the ST tag since pre-Independent times. “We have not succeeded. Now, the struggle is being held under the leadership of the seer of the community and State Kurubara Sangha”, he said. Devaraj Urs, during his rule as Chief MInister, had recommended favouring the ST tag for the community. Siddaramiah also recommended the same during his rule. However, the demand had remained unfulfilled. “We are taking out a padayatra to put pressure on the government. Hundreds of people from Hassan will also join the march at Dobbespet on February 1”, he said. Answering a question, Mr. Revanna said the support of Rashtriya Swamysevak Sangha was required for the agitation, as both the Centre and State government were functioning with its support. Support Further, he said Mr. Siddaramiah was in favour of the struggle and efforts to bring him to the agitation were already on. Mr. Revanna held a meeting with representatives of the community in Hassan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/st-tag-struggle-by-kurubas-will-continue/article33701228.ece
30 January 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Frequent changes in tax laws condemned||Members of Hassan District Tax Practitioners Association staged a protest in Hassan on Friday raising several objections in the tax laws. They wanted Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitaraman to reduce the burden of the tax practitioners and traders by taking necessary measures. The members staged a protest wearing black ribbons on their shoulders, in response to a call given by the Western Maharashtra Tax Practitioners’ Association. Even three years after the Goods and Services Tax (GST) was brought in, the government had been making numerous amendments, impacting the business. The repeated pleas for the corrective measures had not been fulfilled, resulting in financial and mental stress for both the traders and tax professionals, they said. “We support the GST, but we strongly object to frequent changes in GST law, denial of input tax credit”, the protesters said. They also objected to the way the government treat the professionals and traders. H.R. Shivakmar, H.I. Sandesh and others of the association took part in the stir.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/frequent-changes-in-tax-laws-condemned/article33701230.ece
30 January 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Minister to meet officials on anti-cow slaughter law||Minister for Animal Husbandry Prabhu Chavan will hold a meeting with officers in Hassan on Saturday on implementing the amended anti-cow slaughter law in the district. He will visit the Veterinary College at 10.30 a.m. and meet the officers at 11.30 a.m. The Deputy Commissioner, Superintendent of Police and other senior officers will attend. Later, the Minister will travel to Chikkamagaluru, where he would hold a similar meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/minister-to-meet-officials-on-anti-cow-slaughter-law/article33701225.ece
30 January 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Felicitated||Hassan district unit of Bharat Gyan Vigyan Samiti felicitated singer Guarantee Ramanna and theatre personality P. Shadrak in Hassan recently. Guarantee Ramanna, who has penned more than 500 songs for various pro-people movements, has been chosen for Karnataka Janapada Academy award. The contribution of P. Shadrak to theatre has been recognised by Karnataka Nataka Academy, which chose him for the annual award. C. Soubhagya of BGVS, A. Savithri, honorary president of the district unit of BGVS, were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/felicitated/article33701227.ece
30 January 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Indigenous remedy for efficient management of solid waste||The Swachh Swast Trust of Hubballi led by social activist Vishwanath Patil has come up with an indigenously-developed Swachh Swast Wastebin Project aimed at facilitating efficient solid waste management, particularly wet waste. Elaborating on the project, Mr. Patil, who is chairman of the trust, told presspersons here on Friday that the indigenously-developed garbage handling system is highly cost effective. “The garbage collecting area is completely hygienic and good looking. There will be no menace of dogs, pigs or mosquitoes as the garbage bin will remain closed,” he said. On the maintenance of the new system, he said that one drive with one operator can lift the garbage at multiple points without much effort as the vehicle is automated and the garbage bin is shifted through a simple mechanism. There will also be no problem with regard to finding space for dust bins, as they will be placed underground and there will be no stench, he explained. Mr. Patil said that he had been experimenting with the system for the last four years in his locality, Vishweshwar Nagar, and after trial and error, he has now converted a sports-utility vehicle into a fully automated auto tipper. To a query, he said that the cost of setting up an underground dust bin will be around Rs. 32,000 and there can be one dust bin for 10 households. The automated auto tipper will cost around Rs. 12 lakh and it can cover several localities in a day, he said. Mr. Patil said that the whole idea of Swachh Swast Wastebin Project is to facilitate easy solid waste management through adapting innovation. “We have not done this project for business. We want organisations or local bodies to adopt this method to ensure easy and quick solid waste disposal, particularly for wet waste,” he said. He said that the trust members Ramanamurthy K., Neela Vasant Biradar, Mahantesh Doddamani and others extended cooperation in executing the project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/indigenous-remedy-for-efficient-management-of-solid-waste/article33701022.ece
30 January 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||KLETU students develop Maya for bank customers||In a first-of-its-kind, students of KLE Technological University (KLETU) have developed a humanoid robot, specifically aimed at extending a helping hand to banking customers. Named Maya, the humanoid robot has been developed by students of Automation and Robotics of KLETU Prithiv Deshpande and Alwin M., along with research assistants Abhijit Sampthkrishna and Kartik Lakamanhalli under the guidance of Assistant Professors Ashwini G.K. and Sridhar Doddamani and Head of the Department Professor Arun Giriyapur. The students told presspersons in Hubballi on Friday that based on the requirement of the bank, which had approached them for a robotic platform, they had developed the humanoid robot which can be deployed on any flat surface. “The bank has the software ready but wanted us to develop a robotic platform. Under the sponsored project we have developed Maya which will help address customer needs. When it experiences power shortage, it goes to the charging point and charges the battery on its own,” they explained. The robot has been developed to provide better customer service in banks. The robot has chatbot, face recognition, automatic docking after discharge and computer programmes powered by artificial intelligence which can imitate conversations such as a human using different regional languages. Developed under a sponsored project at a total cost of Rs. 5 lakh, Maya weighs 15 kg with battery backup of eight-10 hours with the capability of interpreting various queries. It took nearly eight months of work for the team to get Maya ready. The team members said that there is still scope for further development and based on response from customers on the humanoid robot’s functioning, further additions or improvements can be done. According to Prof. Arun Giriyapur, positive response from customers can lead to further deployment of humanoid robots in various locations. The team members said that the basic algorithm of the humanoid robot was developed by them and they have avoided complicated mechanism to make it simple.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kletu-students-develop-maya-for-bank-customers/article33701020.ece
30 January 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Booked||A case of extortion has been registered in Dharwad against the son of a murdered history-sheeter, according to the police. The Dharwad Rural Police have booked Arbaz Hanchinal and his associates based on a complaint by a real estate developer Mohammad Kuduchi. Arbaz is the son of Fruit Irfan who was murdered in Hubballi a month ago.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/booked/article33701012.ece
30 January 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Awareness on saving fuel||For creating awareness on fuel conservation and environment protection, the Ballari divisional office of Indian Oil Corporation Ltd. is conducting a cyclothon in Ballari city on Sunday. The cyclothon will be flagged off at 6.30 a.m. on Sunday from Durgamma Gudi Grounds. After proceeding through SP Circle, Sudha Cross, Moti Circle and Royal Circle, the event will conclude at the originating point. All cycling enthusiasts and students are requested to participate in the rally with their bicycles after adhering to the necessary COVID-19 guidelines. The participants will get certificates, the release said. For further details, contact Kiran Kumar on Ph: 9448289961.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/awareness-on-saving-fuel/article33701018.ece
30 January 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Private multi-speciality hospital sealed||A team of officers headed by District Health and Family Welfare Officer Janardhan raided and sealed a private multi-speciality hospital that was said to have been operating without registration under Karnataka Private Medical Establishment (KPME) Act, in Ballari on Friday. As per information provided by sources in the Health Department, the team, which included Taluk Health and Family Welfare Officer Mohan Kumari and District RCH Officer Anil Kumar, carried out a surprise raid on the premises of Svastha Hospital situated at Sudha Cross in Ballari city and found that the hospital was operating illegally without obtaining necessary permissions. The team members visited the operation theatre, the intensive care unit, patient wards and other departments and took stock of the procedures being followed in offering medical services. It is learnt that the hospital authorities failed to provide the required information and documents, including the registration certificate and the price list for different treatment. Since the owner of the hospital was not present, the lab technician told the team that doctors visited the hospital as and when required. The team members then visited the wards and took information from the patients about the treatment offered and the money paid. Alerted by the raid, the owner rushed to the hospital and admitted that he was running the hospital for the last eight months and promised the team members that he will get it registered under KPME Act shortly. “We have made all the preparations and gathered necessary documents. We will shortly get the hospital registered,” he told the team members. Speaking to The Hindu , Dr. Janardhan said that all the patients in the hospital were shifted to government and private hospitals before locking down the hospital. “Registration under KPME Act is mandatory to run a medical establishment. This hospital is not registered. We have shifted the patients to other hospitals and locked it down. We will now submit a report to the Deputy Commissioner for further action,” Dr. Janardhan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/private-multi-speciality-hospital-sealed/article33701017.ece
30 January 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||M.B. Ambalagi passes away||President of The North-Eastern Teachers Forum and educationist-activist M.B. Ambalagi passed away on Thursday. He was 57. He was ill for some time and failed to respond to treatment. Prof. Ambalagi is survived by wife, daughter and son. In 2014, Prof. Ambalagi took voluntary retirement to contest in the elections to the North-East Teachers Constituency on JD(S) ticket. Recently, he quit the JD(S) after the party denied him ticket to contest from North-East Teachers Constituency in the 2020 polls. The deceased was the founder of Gurupadeshwar PU and Degree College and is known for providing free coaching classes and tutorials for students from poor economic backgrounds.  The last rites were performed in his native village Garampalli in Chincholi taluk on Friday evening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mb-ambalagi-passes-away/article33701026.ece
30 January 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Cyclothon tomorrow||Indian Oil, the biggest oil marketing public sector undertaking, is organising a cyclothon titled “Saksham Cycle Day-2021” event in Kalaburagi city on Sunday. Nithin Geerthi, Kalaburagi branch depot manager of Indian Oil, addressing presspersons here on Friday said that the cyclothon is being jointly organised by the Petroleum Conservation Research Association and the oil marketing companies to propagate the importance of fuel conservation and efficient energy utilisation by avoiding using vehicles at least one day in a month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cyclothon-tomorrow/article33701015.ece
30 January 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Concern over rivers drying up fast||Scientists and environmentalists have expressed serious concern over the frequent landslips along the Western Ghats in the State, including the one at Bangarapalke in Belthangady taluk on Monday, even as they have cautioned that there will be dry days in the coming years as the rivers are drying fast. The destruction of green cover, particularly the Shola forests, for various projects, including the massive denuding of the top cover for the Yettinahole Water Diversion Project, has drastically reduced the rainwater holding capacity of the soil, said environmentalist Dinesh Holla. Consequently, all the rainwater during the monsoon immediately gushes down the valleys and joins the sea, despite there being enough rainfall. Water flow in the rivers comes down soon after the rainy season as the soil does not hold enough water to release it gradually. Hejmadi Gangadhar Bhat, Professor in Marine Geology with Mangalore University, said that frequent landslips atop the Western Ghats in the last three-four years have destroyed the green cover on the ghats. This has exposed top soil as well as stone layers to direct sunlight. The nutrient-rich thick layer of the top soil gets washed away because of these developments. Also, thousands of trees have been felled for various projects. All these, Prof. Bhat told The Hindu , have drastically reduced rainwater percolation into the soil thereby causing frequent floods during the monsoon and reduced water flow in the rivers off-monsoon. Restoration of greenery on the ghat stretch as well as construction of check-dams along river courses to store excess water should be resorted to to ensure adequate water supply to people, he suggested. Tremor series Mr. Holla said that the 2018 landslips in the Sakleshpur, Mudigere and Belthangady belts of the Western Ghats were the direct impact of extensive blasting and felling of trees for the Yettinahole project that involved construction of seven check-dams and laying hundreds of kilometres of huge pipelines. The Mrithyunjaya, a tributary of the Netravathi in Belthangady taluk, is almost dead, while the Kumaradhara and the Kempu Hole, the other tributaries, might dry up soon due to diversion of rivulets for the Yettinahole project. Monday’s Bangarapalke landslip should not be seen as an isolated one as landslips were highly unlikely during non-monsoon season. It has occurred very close to the Netravathi’s birth place, Yelaneer, and the days are not far away for the Netravathi too to dry up, he cautioned. Frequent landslips across the ghat have loosened soil and boulders thus causing more landslips. The situation is similar in the Uttara Kannada stretch of the Western Ghats too with landslips at many locations and rivers drying up fast after rainfall, Mr. Holla said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/concern-over-rivers-drying-up-fast/article33701210.ece
30 January 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Eight cycle riders clinch Super Randonneur Title||As many as eight seasoned riders, seven from Dakshina Kannada-Udupi and one from Kasaragod in Kerala, clinched the Super Randonneur Title by completing a 600-km Brevetes De Randonneur Mondiaux (BRM) within 40 hours between January 22 and 23 in Mangaluru. The BRM was organised by Team We R Cycling affiliated to Audax Club Parisien (ACP), one of the most coveted cycling bodies in the world, and Audax India Randonneurs (AIR). Aptly named Wheel-O-Coast, the route took the riders all along the coast connecting BC Road, Ullal and Kundapur with a 40-hour target. After being flagged off at Mangala Stadium, the riders moved to BC Road via KPT, back to Ullal via Pumpwell, then to Kundapur Shastri Circle, back to Mangala Stadium, again to Shastri Circle, back to Mangala Stadium, again to Shastri Circle and back to Mangala Stadium, to complete 600 km. While many would dread a 600-km ride at a stretch, 10 riders who were determined to become Super Randonneurs, began their ride after WeRC’s own Super Randonneur Shyamprasad Naik flagged it off on January 22. Mr. Naik briefed the riders about safety, rules and a few tips to survive beyond 600 km. Of the 10, two — Kaushik Boloor and Rajesh Nayak — dropped out in the middle due to weather condition and other reasons. The other eight, Shemjaz Arakkal Maniyat, Navin Kotian, P.N. Ramaraj, B. Gautham Baliga, Joseph Pereira, V.N. Sreekanth (Kasaragod), Gururaj Krishnamurthy and Sarvesh Samaga, completed the ride with ease. Sixty-one-year-old Pereira, who was regularly riding an average 100 km a day since a fortnight, was not seen at all after the flag off. The other nine rode in groups all through the first stretch and the group got split as the riders’ ordeal escalated. Super Randonneur Tilakchandra supported the event and the riders throughout. Mr. Pereira said that it was his first longest ride and he dedicated it to his wife Violet Pereira for making it possible. BRMs are rides of fixed distances to be completed within specified time limits, passing through predetermined time controls. The recognition is equal regardless of the finishing order with every rider finishing the event within the cut-off time getting a certificate and a medal directly from ACP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/eight-cycle-riders-clinch-super-randonneur-title/article33701204.ece
30 January 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘Identify land for cow shelters in every taluk’||Udupi Deputy Commissioner G. Jagadeesha on Friday directed officials concerned to identify land to set up at least two cow shelters in every taluk so as to look after cattle in need of care. Presiding over a special meeting of the district Prani Daya Sangha in Udupi, Mr. Jagadeesha said that establishing goshalas in every taluk has become mandatory following the enforcement of Karnataka Prevention of Slaughter and Preservation of Cattle Ordinance, 2020. Whenever farmers and the general public hand over cattle that were either of no use or injured to officials concerned, such cattle need to be taken care of by the government. Trustee of Neelavara Goshale Sarvottama Udupa suggested that places where fodder too could be grown along with establishing the shelters be identified. Mr. Jagadeesha said that cattle transporters should possess all relevant permissions and documents to transport cattle. Otherwise, owners of cattle and vehicles and others involved in transportation could be penalised. Proper care should be taken to ensure cattle do no get injured during transportation and they should sufficiently be fed fodder and water before transportation. Adequate light and air should be available in the vehicles meant for transporting cattle. Vehicles transporting cattle should not exceed 25 kmph speed while there should be compartments for each cattle. Transportation of cattle was prohibited between 8 p.m. and 6 a.m. And, cattle cannot be transported between 11 a.m. and 3 p.m. too during summer. Sangha members suggested sufficient personnel be appointed to run goshalas besides making registration of such shelters compulsory. Steps should be taken to prevent encroachment of gomal land. Superintendent of Police N. Vishnuvardhan, Additional Deputy Commissioner B. Sadashiva Prabhu, Zilla Panchayat Deputy Secretary Kiran Pednekar and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/identify-land-for-cow-shelters-in-every-taluk/article33701208.ece
30 January 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||City corporation urged to issue water bills monthly||Taking the ruling BJP to task for laxity in issuing water bills, the Opposition Congress in the Mangaluru City Corporation Council on Friday urged the corporation to ensure that consumers are issued monthly bills. Leader of the Opposition Abdul Ravoof and the former Mayor and now a Congress member M. Shashidhar Hegde said that if the civic body issued monthly bills many a problem related to exorbitant billing can be avoided. Mr. Hegde said that even after the Mayor conducting two Water Adalats to address anomalies in the issue of bills, people continue to get abnormal bills. The corporation should maintain consistency in issuing bills. The former Mayor said that in some cases consumers have got bills up to Rs. 15,000 for domestic supply which is three or four times more than their normal bills. Multi-purpose health workers should be asked to issue water bills monthly by streamlining the process, he said. Mr. Ravoof said that when consumers are issued bills monthly, the issue of getting exorbitant bills will subside on its own. Anil Kumar, a member from Panjimogaru ward, said that many industries having their units on the banks of the Phalguni are discharging untreated sewage into the river, thus polluting it. The corporation should take steps to stop it. Responding to this, Mayor Diwakar instructed an environment engineer to inspect such spots, identify such industries and write a letter to the Karnataka State Pollution Control Board (KSPCB) to take take action against them. The council agreed to name the popularly called Lady Hill Circle as Brahmashree Narayana Guru Circle. It accepted a report of the Standing Committee for Town Planning and Improvement which had decided to recommend to the council to name the circle after social reformer Narayana Guru. An agenda tabled in the meeting on the matter said that though the then Mayor in 2003 had given approval for naming the circle after Narayana Guru, the meeting of the council on August 28, 2003 had decided to postpone the matter. Later, the council in its meeting on September 22, 2020 decided to refer the matter to the Standing Committee for Town Planning and Improvement for a report. The committee in its November 13, 2020 meeting said that as per the records available with the corporation, the particular circle has not been officially named. Hence, the committee decided to recommend to the council to name the circle after Narayana Guru. It also recorded the objections by two members A.C. Vinayaraj and Abdul Lathif to it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/city-corporation-urged-to-issue-water-bills-monthly/article33701214.ece
30 January 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Karnataka Bank to host foundation day lecture||Gururaj Karjagi, Chairman, Academy for Creative Teaching, Bengaluru, will deliver the 97th Founders Day Lecture of Karnataka Bank at 4 pm. on February 18. The bank has scheduled the programme through virtual mode on the Webex platform owing to COVID-19, said a release. Dr. Karjagi, who has published over 22 research papers in international journals, has brought out 15 series of Karunaalu Baa Belake books that have become popular, the release quoted bank Managing Director and CEO M.S. Mahabaleshwara as saying. He has also built over 85 schools of high repute all over the world.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/karnataka-bank-to-host-foundation-day-lecture/article33701211.ece
30 January 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Kasturba Hospital gets appreciation||Kasturba Hospital, Manipal, received a certification of appreciation from the State government and Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana recently for performance under the Ayushman Bharat-Arogya Karnataka scheme. The certificate was handed over to Avinash Shetty, Medical Superintendent of Kasturba Hospital, by S. Angara, Minister for Fisheries, Port and Inland Transport during the Republic Day function in Udupi recently, a release said. Since empanelled under the Ayushman Bharat-Arogya Karnataka scheme in 2018, Kasturba Hospital has treated 15,000 patients under this scheme and of them 13,000 were patients from below poverty line families. During the pandemic, the hospital treated 1,043 COVID-19 patients under Ayushman, of which over 400 were in ICU, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kasturba-hospital-gets-appreciation/article33701215.ece
30 January 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Swab tests at CFTRI’s COVID-19 testing centre cross 1.2 lakh||Continuing its support to the long-drawn battle against COVID-19, the CSIR-Central Food Technological Research Institute (CFTRI), Mysuru has successfully completed 1.20 lakh swab tests at its COVID-19 Testing Centre since last year. This was the third testing centre set up here for carrying out RT-PCR tests after the one at the Microbiology Department (on the premises of K.R. Hospital) in Mysore Medical College and Research Institute (MMCRI) and another at the JSS Hospital. Free service The MMCRI Testing Centre (Viral Research and Diagnostic Laboratory) and the CSIR-CFTRI Testing Centre are the two public institutions that have been providing services to the public free of cost since the outbreak. The CSIR-CFTRI came forward to support the district administration in the fight against the pandemic by setting up the centrer and carry out RT-PCR tests since testing was key for containing the spread of the disease. With its support, Mysuru could do more testing, helping in combating the pandemic which had peaked and the district was identified as a COVID-19 hotspot because of the spurt in The cases and the fatalities had dropped substantially since October last, and increase in testing was cited as one of the reasons for flattening the curve. Landmark The MMCRI lab and the CSIR-CFTRI COVID-19 Testing Centre have together tested nearly five lakh swab samples collected from the district, and the authorities said it is a major landmark towards the control of COVID-19 spread in the district. To mark the occasion of crossing 1.20 lakh swab tests, the CSIR-CFTRI on Friday felicitated the COVID-19 warriors of its testing centre and the district and Health Department officials, including Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri, in recognition of their significant contributions in combating the pandemic. CSIR-CFTRI Director Sridevi Annapurna Singh, scientists from the premier lab and others were present. Crucial role Dr Ravindra P V, in-charge Coordinator, CSIR –CFTRI Testing Centre, Mysuru, and Dr Prakash M Halami, Coordinator and Nodal Officer said, “The 1.20 lakh swab tests could be achieved because of the hard work and dedication of the young staff of the testing center. The support of the CSIR-CFTRI director, the heads of the departments, State and district administration, the RBI, Mysuru branch and Vasudaiva Kutumbakam Pratistanam Trust, Shivamogga was significant in achieving this milestone.”  In her address, Dr. Singh said the CSIR-CFTRI, in addition to its contribution to the testing, also contributing towards sequencing of Coronavirus genome to find out the possible mutations in the virus from the samples originated from the district. The institute is also developing immunity-boosting food supplements /formulations, diagnostics as well as sanitizers in the effforts towards COVID-19 mitigation, she added. Those who were felicitated at the CSIR-CFTRI event include Ms. Rohini Sindhuri; MMCRI Dean and Director C.P. Nanjaraj; District Health Officer Amarnath; District Vector-Borne Diseases Control Officer Chidambar, District Surveillance Officer Shivaprasad;, senior health officials Siraj, Ravi, Rajeshwari, and Narayana Krishnamurthy; General Manager, RBI branch, Hugar; Deputy Medical Superintendent, Government Ayurveda Panchakarma Hospital, Murali; Nuva Reddy; and all the staff of the CSIR-CFTRI COVID-19 Testing Centre.  The MMCRI lab and the CSIR-CFTRI COVID-19 Testing Centre have together tested nearly five lakh swab samples collected from the district.  To mark the occasion of crossing 1.20 lakh swab tests, the CSIR-CFTRI on Friday felicitated the COVID-19 warriors of its testing centre and the district and Health Department officials.  CSIR-CFTRI is also contributing towards sequencing of the Coronavirus genome to find out the possible mutations in the virus from the samples originated from the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/swab-tests-at-cftris-covid-19-testing-centre-cross-12-lakh/article33701237.ece
30 January 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Contract hiring of pourakarmikas decried||Safai Karamchari Commission Chairman M.Shivanna said here on Friday that he will strive for the comprehensive development of pourakarmikas. He told mediapersons that he will recommend the abolition of the practice of hiring pourakarmikas on contract. The pourakarmikas are an exploited lot and the contractors do not pay them properly as per the laws and are even deprived of Provident fund facilities in violation of the law. Mr.Shivanna said the condition of the pourakarmikas whether they were engaged in UGD cleaning or other forms of labour, was pathetic and he will hold discussions with slum board development authorities and the Karnataka Housing Board personnel to ensure that they get decent accommodation facilities. In the case of 1,600 pourakarmikas of Mysuru City Corporation, arrangements will be made to credit their wages directly into their bank accounts and this practice will come into effect from February 1. He said the daily breakfast allowance for pourakarmikas who work from 6 a.m. to 2 p.m. shift in the MCC will be increased from Rs. 20 to Rs. 50. More than 90 per cent of the pourakarmikas engaged in the morning shift are women and this enhanced allowance will benefit all of them, he added. Expressing concern over the prevalence of manual scavenging and people still engaged in it, Mr.Shivanna said their numbers had increased from 302 in 2013 to over 3,000 in the present times. The commission will take this issue seriously and get it banned and those encouraging manual scavenging will be prosecuted, he warned. Earlier, Mr.Shivanna visited a few residential colonies of the pourakarmikas to take stock of their living condition and apprise himself of their problems. He said most live in congested places with 2 or 3 families sharing a single house devoid of toilet or bathroom facilities. Citing recommendations of the expert committees on improving the conditions of the pourakarmikas, Mr.Shivanna said he will study and strive to implement the measures to bring about an improvement in their living conditions besides giving emphasis to their educational needs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/contract-hiring-of-pourakarmikas-decried/article33701235.ece
30 January 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||AIISH staff get COVID-19 vaccine||The 700-plus staff and students of the Mysuru-based All India Institute of Speech and Hearing (AIISH), a premier institute under the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare for addressing communication disorders, got the first dose of Covishield vaccine. The three-day vaccination drive was concluded on the institute premises here on Friday. N. Parimala, who is the seniormost employee besides being the Assistant Registrar of the Institute, was the first to get administered with the vaccine, followed by M. Pushpavathi, Director of the Institute. Ms. Parimala is also a cancer survivor, an AIISH press release said here. A team of doctors comprising Sundara Raju, G. Rajeshwari and Prakash, assisted by a nursing team, took all precautionary measures for the smooth conduct of the vaccination programme. The second dose would be administered 28 days after the first dose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/aiish-staff-get-covid-19-vaccine/article33701232.ece
30 January 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Patronisation for train travel improving||The graded unlocking and gradual resumption of train servicescoupled with a dip in the new COVID-19 cases, seem to have had a positive impact on train travel. The train services across the country came to a grinding halt in March 2020 consequent to the outbreak of COVID-19. The railways operated Shramik Specials to cater to the migrant workers, and a limited number of passenger services were introduced subsequently most of which used to run only on select routes. Though the Indian Railways is yet to announce the normal running of trains as per the scheduled timetable, sources said response to the limited number of trains operating is encouraging through it is nowhere near the pre-pandemic period. The Mysuru Division of South Western Railway used to operate 145 trains in the pre-pandemic period. After the pandemic eased out, 84 trains have resumed to connect various destinations. This covers nearly 57 per cent of the passenger services provided by the division. Statistics from the railway authorities also shows a positive trend in the passenger patronisation of various trains since the last few months. Train Number 06504 which was among the first to be introduced in the country on May 22, 2020 connecting Mysuru with Bengaluru had 11.3 percentage utilisation during that month while the percentage utilisation was 15.06 during June. This was 17.53 per cent in July, increased to 42.94 per cent in August and peaked at 65.27 per cent in September. The average percentage utilisation during December was 62.71 per cent. In terms of number of people travelling by the train, against a capacity of 1,938, the number of passengers during December used to vary from a low of 726 on a trip to a high of 1,896. Similar trends have been observed so far during the current month as well. The percentage utilisation in case of the corresponding train from Bengaluru to Mysuru was 70.95 per cent during December. Similarly, the Chamarajanagar-Tirupati Express has a high patronisation and was 76.63 per cent during December, as per the railway records. But in case of long distance services entailing overnight journey the response has been encouraging so far. Trains connecting Mysuru and Solapur, Mysuru-Jaipur, Mysuru-Ajmer Mysuru-Dharbanga have good patronisation. Sources in the railways said though some of the coaches tend to be relatively empty during departure from Mysuru, passengers board the train at different stations en route which adds up to the total passengers patronising a service. “The scenario was bad with near empty trains covering the entire stretch of the journey when a limited number of services were introduced in May. The situation remained the same till August but has gradually improved since September’’, the sources added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/patronisation-for-train-travel-improving/article33701239.ece
30 January 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||MCC acquires ‘bandicoot robot’||Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) has acquired a ‘Bandicoot Robot’ used in the processing of cleansing the Under Ground Drainage (UGD) system. MCC is the first urban local body to acquire it in Karntaka, MCC Commissioner Gurudatta Hegde said here on Friday. The acquisition of the robot from Pune comes in the midst of the preparation underway to emerge as the Cleanest City in the Swachh Survekshan 2021. “Personnel from Pune will soon arrive in the city to train the pourakarmikas in operating the robot”, he said. The robot, which is expected to clean the UGD of bandicoots and prevent mishaps that take place during its manual cleaning, will be inaugurated by Minister for Urban Development Byarathi Basavaraj soon. Mr. Hegde said the MCC has drawn up a plan of action for Swachh Survekshan 2021 and was ironing out the thorny issues.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mcc-acquires-bandicoot-robot/article33701233.ece
30 January 2021||Special Correspondent,KARNATAKA||SWR operates 268 Shramik Special trains||Republic Day was celebrated in the South Western Railway Zonal Office and Divisional Office in Hubballi on Tuesday. General Manager of South Western Railway Ajay Kumar Singh unfurled the national flag and received a guard of honour from the railway protection force from Bengaluru, Mysuru, Hubballi and Civil Defence contingents. He said that South Western Railway operated 268 Shramik Specials during the epidemic and ferried 3.91 lakh people to their home States, to reunite with their families. As many as 279 parcel trains operated carrying 56,000 tonnes of essentials. It had dispatched four rakes of maize and two rakes of automobiles to Bangladesh and Nepal. He said that 60 % of incremental automobile loading of Indian Railways was contributed by South Western Railway. South Western Railway was the first zone in Indian Railways to start intra-state passenger trains after lockdown, based on the advice of the State government. Railway authorities distributed over 2.56 lakh meals in lockdown, in coordination with IRCTC. He appreciated the work of the workshops in Hubballi and Asokapuram (Mysuru) for getting isolation coaches ready, preparing masks, sanitisers and personal protection equipment kits for catering to the needs of COVID-19 warriors. He said that the Railway Hospitals treated over 2,900 patients infected with COVID-19 and could successfully discharge over 2,785 patients after treatment (barring a few active cases and deaths). There were 104 unfortunate cases of COVID-19 fatalities in Railway families. When compared to the pre-COVID-19 period, South Western Railway was running the highest number (68 %) of trains. He pointed out that the operation of services to Kempegowda Airport Halt Station, Bengaluru, commenced this month. As much as 96 km of doubling has been completed this year, including Lachyan-Hotgi of Chikkodi Rd-Raybag, Harihar-Devaragudda and Unkal to Dharwad. Doubling of 45 km line between Gubbi-Nittur and Yelhanka-Makalidurga is in the pipeline having been authorised by CRS. As much as 110 km of track has been electrified so far in this year. Works on Baiyyapanahalli coaching terminal and Hubballi Yard re-modelling are in the final stages and slated to be commissioned by the end of next month. The Railways built five road overbridges and 31 road underbridges and subways this financial year. As many as 36 manned gates have been closed so far. The limited height subway at Londa was completed in just 90 days with immaculate planning and was likely to enter the Limca book of records for the fastest grade separator ever constructed. South Western Railway has opened the Hubballi Rail Museum, redeveloped Mysuru Rail Museum and developed Arasalu Station as Malgudi Museum. Water supply to railway establishments in Hubballi from the 113-year-old Devaragudihal Lake has been restored and over 50 gardens have been developed. Divisional Railway Manager Arvind Malkhede unfurled the national flag, inspected the parade and received general salutes from the Parade in the Hubballi division. He said that the gross earnings of the division was Rs. 1,939 crore. In this year, the division achieved 22.9 million tonnes loading, surpassing the loading during corresponding period of the last year. The division achieved parcel revenue of Rs. 1.17 crore, the highest ever parcel revenue earned by the division in a single month. During the current financial year, 26.4 km long new railway line between Gangavathi and Karatgi was completed. New station buildings are being constructed at Belagavi, Hosapete, Dharwad, Bagalkot and Vijayapura also, he said. Hubballi Division became the first in South Western Railway to get accredited with ISO 9001:2015 certification for safety, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/swr-operates-268-shramik-special-trains/article33701011.ece
30 January 2021||January 30 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Schools can charge only 70% of tuition fees: Minister||“For this academic year, schools will not be allowed to accept donations or charge optional fees for extra curricular activities such as transport or swimming fees,” he said. Mr. Suresh Kumar justified the decision to cap the amount schools can charge on the grounds that they did not conduct classes on campus from June to December 2020, as a result of which their recurring expenditure was reduced. “The decision was taken after the Commissioner for Public Instruction (CPI) held several rounds of meetings with stakeholders including parents and school managements,” said Mr. Suresh Kumar. If parents have any grievances against the school, they can approach committees that will be formed for this purpose at the district level.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/schools-can-charge-only-70-of-tuition-fees-minister/article33700774.ece
30 January 2021||January 30 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Risky||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/risky/article33701024.ece
30 January 2021||January 30 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Remembering George||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/remembering-george/article33701206.ece
30 January 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Truck hits toll booth cabin of new bypass||One of the toll booth cabins of the newly inaugurated Alappuzha bypass road at Kommady was destroyed after a truck hit it in the early hours of Friday. According to officials, the accident was caused by a lorry carrying timber. “Timber was extended beyond the outer edge of the truck and it hit the cabin while the vehicle was passing through the toll gate,” said an official. The toll collection on the bypass road is yet to begin. The State government has urged the Centre to avoid collecting toll citing the project was implemented with equal shares borne by the Union and State governments. The Centre has not yet responded positively to the State's plea. Meanwhile, the bypass road is witnessing heavy rush with people coming in large numbers to experience a ride through the new road. The elevated stretch of the bypass that passes by the Alappuzha beach has turned out to be a selfie-taking spot. With people stopping to take photos, the road witnessed traffic blocks on Friday. The bypass road was thrown open to the public on Thursday. The 6.8-km two-lane Alappuzha bypass road, passing through the western side of NH 66, links Kommady in the north to Kalarcode in the south. The project came to fruition after a wait of nearly five decades. One of the major features of the bypass is a 4.8-km stretch of the elevated highway that passes by the Alappuzha beach. Of the 4.8-km elevated highway, 3.2 km is flyover. The project was implemented at Rs. 348 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/truck-hits-toll-booth-cabin-of-new-bypass/article33701170.ece
30 January 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Alappuzha takes prompt ABC steps||In a bid to tackle the stray dog menace, the Alappuzha municipality has started to implement the Animal Birth Control (ABC) programme. The municipal area witnessed an increase in the incidents involving street dogs in recent times. As part of the programme, specially trained groups under the aegis of the Kudumbashree Mission have begun capturing strays for sterilisation. Captured dogs “The captured dogs have been shifted to the Government Veterinary Hospital at Kanichukulangara for sterilisation. After sterilisation, dogs will be put under observation and provided special care, before releasing at the places of their capture and after affixing ear tags for identification,” said an official. Apart from implementing the ABC programme, the civic body is also planning to introduce issuing licences for keeping dogs as pets. Recently, the district administration directed the local bodies to initiate measures to tackle the stray dog menace by effectively implementing the ABC programme. At present, the district has two ABC centres functioning at Mavelikara and Kanichukulangara. Measures have been taken to set up more such centres in the district. Final phase The construction of an ABC centre in the Alappuzha municipal area is in the final phase. Besides, steps have also been taken to administer anti-rabies vaccines to dogs with the help of animal welfare NGOs. The stray dog menace has become a major issue in the Alappuzha municipality and several other parts of the district. Several people suffered dog bites in recent weeks. In September 2019, stray dogs attacked and injured more than 30 people in Alappuzha town in a span of a few hours. Following this, several measures were announced to tackle the problem, but stray dog numbers remain high. Experts have called for proper waste management, which would address the issue to a large extent. One of the main reasons for the increase in stray dog numbers was the dumping of garbage and slaughter waste, they pointed out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/alappuzha-takes-prompt-abc-steps/article33701167.ece
30 January 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Eravikulam park to be shut from February 1||The Eravikulam National Park has witnessed new births of the Nilgiri tahr and the authorities are preparing to close the park on January 31. Munnar Wildlife Warden R. Lakshmi said on Friday that three new calves were sighted at Naikollimala under the park last week. She said the park would be closed from February 1 to April 1 to ensure a safe calving season. A survey of the new births and population in the park, the largest natural habitat of the mountain ungulate, would be held in April. Range officer Job J. Neryamparambil said the most number of 155 births was reported last year. A peaceful ambience during the pandemic could be a reason for the rise in the population. As per the last survey in 2020, the Nilgiri tahr population in the park was 723. “The mating season is in monsoon and the calving season extends from February to March,” he said. The newborns would come down to tourist entry areas two weeks after birth. Though poaching was once a major issue, no cases had been reported in the past ten years. However, leopard, tiger, and wild dog prey on the calves. He said Nilgiri tahrs from the park would also migrate to the Kurinji Sanctuary and the Anamalai Tiger Reserve in Tamil Nadu. Annual survey was also being done there. “Nilgiri tahrs prefer tender grass and 10 to 15% of the grassland in the park is subjected to controlled burning to grow tender grass. An increase in the tahr population does not create shortage of fodder,” he said adding that the park had a mountainous topography with large areas of grasslands. For the past few years, the survey was also being conducted in isolated areas with presence of the ungulate. The number of calves in 2017 was 87 and 75 in 2018. Changes in climate conditions can influence the mating season.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/eravikulam-park-to-be-shut-from-february-1/article33701149.ece
30 January 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Public may air grievances at meeting||The taluk-level meeting of Santhwana Sparsham, an initiative to find solutions to public grievances, will be held here on February 15, 16 and 18. The Peerumade taluk-level meeting will be held at Nedumkandam on Feb. 15, Devikulam meeting at Adimali on Feb. 16, and Idukki and Thodupuzha taluk-level meeting at Cheruthoni on Feb. 19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/public-may-air-grievances-at-meeting/article33701168.ece
30 January 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Awareness programme for civic body chiefs||Kerala State Food Commission (KSFC) chairman K.V. Mohan Kumar has said that the commission would focus on ensuring food security to the marginalised sections of people in society. Speaking after inaugurating an awareness programme of the commission here on Friday, Mr. Mohan Kumar said that the civic bodies in the State had to play a responsible role in ensuring food security. The programme was organised to sensitise the presidents of civic bodies in the district to the significance of the Food Security Act and various projects that come under the Act. Commission member M. Vijaya Lakshmi presided over the function.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/awareness-programme-for-civic-body-chiefs/article33701107.ece
30 January 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Tuskers stray into villages, trigger panic||A herd of wild elephants that strayed into human habitations near Panamaram in Wayanad district on Friday morning triggered panic among the local people. Forest Department sources said a herd of four tuskers had entered a village at Mechery from Pathiri reserve forest in the South Wayanad forest division. The herd was sighted inside a private coffee plantation at Mechery around 6.30 a.m. A team of Forest officials led by Chethalayath Forest Range Officer B. Asiff and Mananthavady Forest Range Officer K.V. Biju reached the spot. The animals then entered some thickly populated areas, including Eranellur, Nelliyambam, Punjavayal, and Mararkadavu, raising anxiety among people. However, the Forest officials managed to scare them away by bursting crackers and beating drums. The elephants, however, neither raided crops nor caused any damage to property. They did not try to attack anybody on their way to Mararkadavu forest, sources said. After five hours of chase, the team managed to drive the elephants into the Mararkadavu forest, nearly 7 km away from Mechery, South Wayanad Forest Divisional Officer B. Ranjith Kumar said. As many as 80 members of Forest staff from three forest divisions of South and North Wayanad and Wayanad wildlife sanctuary participated in the operation. North Wayanad Forest Divisional Officer Ramesh Bishnoy and Mr. Ranjith Kumar supervised the operation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/herd-of-tuskers-strays-into-villages-triggers-panic/article33701109.ece
30 January 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Health Department to conduct sero prevalence survey||The Health department is preparing to conduct a serological prevalence study in the district to ascertain the baseline prevalence of SARS-CoV-2 antibodies in the community. A serological prevalence survey involves drawing blood samples to detect whether the person was exposed to SARS-CoV-2 in the past and whether the person has developed Immunoglobulin G (IgG) antibodies to combat the infection. The survey would be conducted in two municipalities and five grama panchayats in the district. Apart from the civic bodies, the survey would be conducted in select police stations, civic body offices and hospitals, Health department sources said. The study would help determine the possibility of yet another wave of COVID-19 and help policy makers evolve appropriate preventive or control strategies, sources said. The study would measure the SARS-CoV-2 antibody levels in blood samples and would help to determine the actual extent of the spread of the virus in the community, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/health-department-to-conduct-sero-prevalence-survey/article33701100.ece
30 January 2021||Kannur,KERALA||Sudhakaran hits out at CPI(M) leader||Kannur Member of Parliament and KPCC Working Committee president K. Sudhakaran on Friday criticised CPI(M) State secretary A. Vijayraghavan’s comments on the Congress leaders’ meeting the Indian Muslim Union League leadership at Panakkad. Mr. Sudhakaran asked whether it was wrong for Congress leaders to visit the houses of leaders of a UDF constituent. He said he would still go to Panakkad and hold a meeting. On the question of Assembly elections, he said that the CPI(M) had an alliance with the BJP for the forthcoming polls as was evident in the local body elections held recently. Asked whether he would take up the post of KPCC president, he said that he did not aspire for the post but would accept any position given to him by the party.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sudhakaran-hits-out-at-cpim-leader/article33701106.ece
30 January 2021||KASARAGOD,KERALA||Central varsity develops epilepsy predicting helmet||A research team of the Central University of Kerala, Kasaragod, has obtained a patent for designing an epilepsy predicting helmet. The team, consisting of the research scholar Fasil O.K. and Assistant Professor Thasleema T.M. under the guidance of R. Rajesh, Head of the Department of Computer Science, began research in automatic detection and prediction of epilepsy from electroencephalography ( EEG) signals in 2016 in the department of computer science of the university. The device called, “Brain signal capturing safety helmet”, detects brain signals and predicts the chances of an attack of epilepsy well in advance. The team developed suitable algorithms for the analysis of epileptic EEG signals. The members of the team presented their project in various international conferences and published many scientific papers. Mr. Fasil said epilepsy was a chronic brain disorder that affected a large population across the globe. Epilepsy disturbs the brain’s normal functioning and affects the day-to-day lives of patients. Patients who drive vehicles or handle complicated machines face more risks. Dizziness and unconsciousness caused by the disorder may lead to accidents or injuries. It is in this context that the helmet that predicts the onset of a fit of epilepsy plays an important role by alerting the patient beforehand. This helps the patient to adopt appropriate precautions. The team has obtained a design patent for the model (Design number: 335166-001). The same model could be used for sleep detection for drivers with a few changes in the algorithms, they said. Mr. Fasil said that they were in discussion with the National Institute of Mental Health and Neuro Sciences (NIMHANS) for further research in the field.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/central-varsity-develops-epilepsy-predicting-helmet/article33701091.ece
30 January 2021||KASARAGOD,KERALA||Minister to inaugurate water conservation project||Revenue Minister E. Chandrasekharan will inaugurate the Rs. 113.3-crore Comprehensive Water Conservation Project under the Kasaragod Development Package, at the collectorate conference hall here on Saturday. Check dams, soil and water conservation activities, river rehabilitation projects, and innovative rubber check dams are being implemented as part of the project. The inauguration of the works being implemented in different parts of the district and the announcement of the projects for which the tender process has been completed with the approval of the administration will take place. The projects are designed to find a permanent solution to the drinking water shortage and for ensuring water for irrigation in the district. N.A. Nellikunnu, MLA, will preside over the function. K. Rajmohan Unnithan, MP; K. Kunhiraman and M. Rajagopalan, MLAs; District Panchayat President Baby Balakrishnan; and District Collector D. Sajith Babu will be present. The Kasargod Development Package also aims at rejuvenating the rivers in the district. Work is in progress to expand rubber check dams in the district as part of the package.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/minister-to-inaugurate-water-conservation-project/article33701096.ece
30 January 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||CSML to give Rs. 10 crore for work on canals||Projects to restore the city’s canals and mend waterlogging issues will receive funding of Rs. 10 crore under Cochin Smart Mission Limited (CSML). The decision was taken at a recent CSML board meeting chaired by Chief Secretary Vishwas Mehta, who is also CSML chairman. For work pending under the second phase of Operation Breakthrough and for waterlogging-alleviation measures suggested in a report prepared by Esteem Developers, Rs. 10 crore would be set aside from CSML funds, said Mayor M. Anilkumar. A CSML spokesperson said the funds would be utilised for work to be implemented immediately in the Mullassery canal and Rameswaram-Kalvathy canal areas. A total of Rs. 42 crore had already been set aside under CSML’s canal rejuvenation project, they said. The Rs. 10 crore would be allocated from those funds. Additional funds could also be made available under CSML for a comprehensive proposal to deal with waterlogging in the Mullassery canal area, the Mayor said. “A detailed project report for the Mullassery canal will be prepared soon. Funding from foreign agencies was initially suggested for the project, but since that might take time to seek, funds might be made available from CSML to implement the project at the earliest,” he said. The proposals are to be presented before the corporation council at a special council meeting that the Mayor plans on holding soon. CSML also had a pending project for the Rameswaram-Kalvathy canal, he said. Other projects CSML will partially fund the construction of the first Rajiv Awas Yojana (RAY) housing tower for landless residents of Thuruthy. A sum of Rs. 21 crore will be made available to the Kochi Corporation for completion of the tower, in phases, as and when construction progresses. A meeting would be held with the District Collector, Mayor and people’s representatives to discuss an upcoming sewage treatment plant in West Kochi, that failed to take off after residents in the area raised apprehensions, said a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/csml-to-give-rs-10-crore-for-work-on-canals/article33701131.ece
30 January 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Striking a false note with photostats||The Panangad police on Wednesday arrested a 32-year-old man who allegedly used fake currency notes for financial transactions. He had allegedly used the notes for three transactions before an alert provisions store owner at Nettoor called his bluff and handed him over to the police. Four fake Rs. 500 notes, which were actually photostats of original currency notes, were recovered from him. “He managed to take the photostat of the currency note on the pretext of using them for a film shooting. He had taken eight copies and had used three of them before he was caught during the fourth attempt. We have managed to identify all except one shop where he used it,” said A. Ananthalal, Station House Officer, Panangad. All the fake notes were passed off as real ones in small shops in and around Nettoor during daytime. The only time he reportedly tried the same during the night, he got caught, thanks to the alert store owner. “That he was able to fool people despite using unsophisticated fakes shows that people have to be more vigilant against being cheated in this manner. Hence, we are conducting a drive of sorts to create awareness about it,” said Mr. Ananthalal. The accused, Anshad of Iravipuram in Kollam, reportedly devised the ploy to overcome the shortage of money to pay rent. The police have not found any antecedents to suspect that he might have done it in the past. Kerala Merchants Chamber of Commerce authorities said that though there had not been any complaints about fake currencies from its members, it could be due to the fact that such notes were circulating without anyone’s knowledge. “Everyone seems to be under the impression that there are no fake currencies any longer. If currencies forged using new methods are introduced into the system undetected in large numbers, then we may have a serious problem. “Other than alerting our members to fake currencies, we may also have to train them on how to detect them since some of them were cheated despite banks sharing tips with them,” said G. Karthikeyan, president, Kerala Merchants Chamber of Commerce.  That he was able to fool people despite using unsophisticated fakes shows that people have to be more vigilant against being cheated in this manner A. Ananthalal Station House Officer, Panangad||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/striking-a-false-note-with-photostats/article33701127.ece
30 January 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Apologise to people, Congress tells govt.||The Kerala government which cheated the world by disseminating wrong and misleading picture of its COVID-19 management efforts should apologise to the people and return all laurels it has received for its pandemic control measures, demands Congress leader Benny Behannan, MP. Addressing a press conference here on Friday, Mr. Behannan alleged that the State government had fudged the pandemic data, including the number of tests conducted, the sick, and those who died. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan was using the pandemic situation to reap political benefits, he alleged. Tall claims The tall claims of Mr. Vijayan and Health Minister K.K. Shylaja regarding the disease control measures proved to be hollow, as Kerala now topped the list of States with the highest number of patients. Mr. Vijayan had failed to understand the intensity and spread of the disease in the State, he alleged. Mr. Behannan alleged that Kerala was the only State that tried to harvest political gains out of the disease. The government had become the merchants of death as COVID-19 count had peaked in the State, he said. The State government should reveal the names of epidemiologists from whom it sought advice for handling the health situation. The State should follow the good practices followed elsewhere to check the spread of the disease, he demanded. Hibi Eden, MP, said the COVID first-line treatment centres of the State had been completely closed down, which left an impact on the health scene. The scarcity of funds with local bodies, which were running the centres, had also impacted the disease control measures, he alleged. T.J. Vinod, MLA, was also present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/apologise-to-people-congress-tells-govt/article33701281.ece
30 January 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Police tighten up pandemic protocol||With the State government taking a serious note of the spike in COVID-19 cases and considering tightening up restrictions, the Ernakulam Rural Police have embarked on an awareness campaign. Accordingly, the police have begun making public announcements on the need to comply with the COVID-19 protocol, including proper wearing of masks and maintaining physical distancing. District Police Chief (Ernakulam Rural) K. Karthik said campaigns would be intensified by deploying additional uniformed personnel. “Janamaithri beat police personnel are conducting house visits, while more patrolling units have been deployed for enforcement of the protocol. Public functions will be allowed in accordance with government guidelines, and violators will be strictly dealt with,” he added. The restrictions are applicable to weddings and funerals too. Physical distancing norms will be strictly enforced in markets and other business establishments. Use of masks is mandatory, while shops should arrange for hand sanitisers. Mr. Karthik said a 24x7 control room was functional at the district police headquarters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/police-tighten-up-pandemic-protocol/article33701135.ece
30 January 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Tourism project for Kadamakkudy||Close on the heels of notifying Kadamakkudy as an official tourism destination, the Tourism Department has chalked out a project worth Rs. 5 crore for the idyllic network of islands, which is already a popular hub of cyclists and birdwatchers on account of the presence of migratory birds. The project is proposed on an acre of land in the possession of the Kadamakkudy grama panchayat, for which no-objection certificate will have to be secured from the Panchayat Department. “Among other things, the project proposes to develop a water sports terminal and introduce houseboats. A walking trail is also planned to introduce visitors to the culture and livelihoods of the islanders, including fishing and agriculture. The narrow walkways cutting through the lush green fields will be fortified for the purpose,” said S. Vijayakumar, secretary, District Tourism Promotion Council (DTPC). A floating restaurant and cycling and kayaking activities are also being planned as part of the project. A welcome centre will be set up along the Container Terminal Road, probably next to the new bridge connecting Moolampilly to Pizhala island, which may serve as the entry point to Kadamakkudy. “The idea is to bring visitors to the welcome centre, give them an orientation about Kadamakkudy, and then take them on the walking trail,” said Mr. Vijayakumar. The project will be implemented through the Kadamakkudy Aqua Agriculture Tourism Society (KAATS), which was formed about a year ago, with the representation of all stakeholders, including the panchayat, government departments, and farming communities with the object of promoting farm and rural tourism. “The society proposes to develop some 100 start-ups related to sustainable agriculture in due course, and that coupled with the tourism project will help develop Kadamakkudy into a farm tourism hub,” said Mahesh Gopalakrishnan, project consultant, KAATS. The Kadamakkudy panchayat committee is yet to formally take up the project. “Though we are aware of the project proposed on our land, the committee has not discussed it yet,” said Mary Vincent, panchayat president.  The society proposes to develop some 100 start-ups related to sustainable agriculture in due course, and that coupled with the tourism project will help develop Kadamakkudy into a farm tourism hub Mahesh Gopalakrishnan Project consultant, Kadamakkudy Aqua Agriculture Tourism Society||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rs-5-cr-tourism-development-project-chalked-out-for-kadamakkudy/article33701125.ece
30 January 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Ernakulam registers 865 fresh cases||Ernakulam recorded 865 fresh COVID-19 cases on Friday, when 6,692 tests were done. The active caseload of the district has crossed 11,000, with 11,027 people recovering from the infection. From Thrikkakara, 35 people tested positive, while 30 new cases were recorded from Maradu, 29 from Karukutty, 26 from Elanji, and 25 each from Okkal, Kalady, and Nedumbassery. Two health workers were infected, and the source of infection in 31 persons could not be detected. A total of 711 people tested negative on Friday, and 25,707 people remain in quarantine. While 8,689 people are recovering at home, 46 patients are at the Government Medical College Hospital, 76 at PVS Hospital and 25 are at the Fort Kochi Taluk Hospital. So far, 380 people have succumbed to the infection in the district, while a cumulative total of 1,06,386 cases were recorded, going by figures on the State government’s online COVID-19 data dashboard. On Friday, 2,844 health workers took the Covishield vaccine at 27 centres in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ernakulam-registers-865-fresh-cases/article33701130.ece
30 January 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Honey trap: 2 arrested||The Central police on Friday arrested two persons on the charge of robbing a businessman of gold ornaments through an alleged honey trap. Mahesh George, 32, and Shibu George, 28, of Udumbunchola in Idukki are accused of robbing a consultancy firm proprietor by threatening him to publish his photographs with a woman on social media. The victim was contacted by a woman on January 6 seeking a job. He asked her to visit the office. The woman contacted him again on January 9 asking for the way to his office. Since the victim was out of his office, the woman allegedly volunteered to meet him at the spot where he was. When the victim went to pick her up, the accused forcibly entered his car in the guise of shadow police. They allegedly took his car’s key and forced him to the rear seat. His hands were allegedly tied and he was beaten up before being stripped of Rs. 12,500, a smart phone and a silver chain weighing over four-and-a-half sovereigns. He was then taken to Foreshore Road from where a woman and a man allegedly entered the car. The petitioner was then forced into compromising postures with the woman. Later, he was threatened that the pictures would be circulated on the social media and made to withdraw Rs. 7,500 using his ATM card besides purchasing a smart phone worth Rs. 9,500 using his credit card. Later, the accused took him to a bar and when they got drunk, the petitioner fled. However, he was reluctant to petition the police immediately out of fear that his pictures might get circulated. He eventually petitioned when the woman rang him up again seeking to meet him. A team led by Central Station House Officer S. Vijayasankar and comprising Vibin Kumar and Thomas Pallan, senior civil police officer Aneesh and civil police officers Ranjith and Ishak made the arrest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-held-for-robbery-using-honey-trap/article33701128.ece
30 January 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||More hop-on hop-off boats for Muziris tours||The number of hop-on hop-off boats that ferry heritage enthusiasts to historic locales in the Muziris region is set to increase, with the Muziris Heritage Project entering into a pact with the Kerala Shipping and Inland Navigation Corporation (KSINC) to procure four more such vessels and a rescue boat. The locales were linked by six such AC boats and five smaller ones called water taxis. The four new ones that will be procured by July will be non-AC hop-on hop-off boats, each capable of carrying 25 passengers. Their height has been reduced so that low-lying bridges do not pose a hurdle. Another order for four more boats would be placed once the new boats arrived, said P.M. Noushad, managing director of the heritage project. Budget allocation The need for more boats was felt since Rs. 5 crore has been earmarked in the budget, mainly to impart non-formal education to schoolchildren and to drive home the point of heritage conservation. In addition, 12 of the 15 boat terminals envisaged under the project are ready, and the other three will be completed before the year-end. Moreover, visitor inflow is expected to go up in the coming months, since all monuments have been reopened in tune with the relaxation of pandemic curbs. The boats in operation at present would be improved, simultaneous with the induction of new boats, he added. The total cost of procuring the new fibre-reinforced plastic (FRP) boats is Rs. 3.30 crore, and an agreement in this regard was inked on Wednesday by Mr. Noushad and Prasanth N., the Managing Director of KSINC. “The boats have been designed with advanced features and comfort. They will be under warranty for one year, while there would be yet another year’s Annual Maintenance Contract (AMC). The KSINC is engaged in constructing FRP boats for numerous agencies, including Kerala Tourism, DTPCs, KTDC and the Department of Sports and Youth Affairs, apart from those in other States,” said Mr. Prasanth. “Efforts are on to renovate more monuments in the heritage zone. In addition, we are gearing up for the fourth edition of the annual kayaking event, that is scheduled to be held on February 12 and 13, to highlight, among other issues, the need to protect waterbodies,” said Mr. Noushad. Cruise connectivity Officials of the KSINC and the heritage project are also learnt to have arrived at a consensus onNefertiti, the KSINC’s cruise ship, operating monthly trips to the terminal near Marthoma Church located in the heritage zone. The Kochi-Muziris cruise can be covered in 90 minutes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/more-hop-on-hop-off-boats-planned-for-muziris-tours/article33701121.ece
30 January 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||CCRC construction work of poor quality, HC told||The Kerala High Court on Friday adjourned to February 5 the hearing on a writ petition filed by the construction company challenging the notice for termination of its contract for the construction of the Cochin Cancer Research Centre (CCRC). When the petition filed by P&C Projects Pvt. Ltd., Erode, came up for hearing, the counsel for INKEL submitted that the quality of work done by the company was poor. In fact, a portion of the under-construction building for the cancer centre had collapsed owing to poor quality of work. Besides the delay in completing the project in time, the substandard quality of work had also prompted INKEL to issue termination notice to the company. The company could complete only 30% of work despite the extension of deadline. In its petition, the company submitted that several unexpected incidents, including floods and the pandemic, had delayed the completion of the project, and, therefore, the termination notice was illegal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ccrc-construction-work-of-poor-quality-hc-told/article33701123.ece
30 January 2021||Kochi,KERALA||PCB notice to polluting firms on Willingdon Island||With complaints pouring in from the public about mixing plants beside the Alexander Parambithara bridge-Mattancherry BOT bridge stretch in Willingdon Island causing severe air pollution over a vast area, the Pollution Control Board (PCB) has issued notice to them. Level of pollutants The board is gearing up to measure the level of pollutants let out from their stacks. “We inspected a temporary bitumen mixing plant a week ago and issued notice to it. The installation is intended to ready materials for road work. The firm does not have a pollution-monitoring system of its own,” said a senior PCB official. The thick smoke and other pollutants from such units, most of which were given permission by the Cochin Port Trust (CPT) to temporarily function from the area which it owns, have been causing hardships, especially to people residing in the vicinity. People who frequent the CPT Avenue Walkway and even motorists too have to put up with the smoke and odour.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pcb-notice-to-polluting-firms-on-willingdon-island/article33701122.ece
30 January 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Nod for bridge alignment||The Railway has accepted the revised alignment of the Vaduthala overbridge, Hibi Eden, MP, said. The project had failed to take off despite funds being earmarked in the 2016-17 budget. Mr. Eden and T.J. Vinod, MLA, made efforts to overcome issues facing the project for which Rs. 47.50 crore was expected from the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB). “The Railway suggested a few revisions in the detailed project report submitted by RBDCK [Roads and Bridges Development Corporation of Kerala], in view of the need to augment tracks. Subsequently, I convened a meeting of Railway and RBDCK officials in December 2020, wherein a revised project was finalised and submitted to the Railway,” Mr. Eden said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/railway-okays-vaduthala-bridge-alignment/article33701132.ece
30 January 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||State to consider plea by kin of naxalite||The State government on Friday informed the Kerala High Court that it would consider favourably the plea for compensation made by the legal heirs of A. Varghese, a naxal leader who was shot dead in a fake police encounter in the Thirunelli forest area in 1970. When a petition filed by the brothers and younger sisters of Varghese came up for hearing, senior public prosecutor Suman Chakravarthy submitted that the government would consider the demand for compensation if a representation was filed by the legal heirs of Varghese. In two months In view of the submission, Justice A. Nagaresh disposed of the petition by allowing the legal heirs to file a representation in this regard and directing the government to consider and pass orders within two months of the filing of such a representation. The petition sought a declaration that they were legally entitled to a compensation of Rs. 50 lakh with interest for the loss of reputation, goodwill and loss of affection, dependency, care and protection, caused to the petitioners because of the murder of Varghese. In an affidavit that was later withdrawn, the Stae government had earlier taken the stand that the conviction of a former senior police officer by the Central Bureau of Investigation Special Court on October 28, 2010 was not a sufficient ground for seeking compensation for the alleged State brutality, which was not in existence at any point of time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-to-consider-plea-by-kin-of-naxalite/article33701150.ece
30 January 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Youth arrested under KAAPA||The rural police arrested a man under the Kerala Anti-social Activities Prevention Act (KAAPA) as part of Operation Dark Hunt. The arrested is Rinshad, 27, of Chittattukara. He remains lodged at the Viyyur Central Jail. His arrest was based on a report of District Police Chief (Ernakulam Rural) K. Karthik. The police arrested a person who was accused of threatening Janamaithri beat police officials during a house visit. Abhilash, 40, is accused of flashing a knife and hurling abuse at the police officials who visited his house to inquire about his sick father and differently abled sister on January 11.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/youth-arrested-under-kaapa/article33701133.ece
30 January 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||674 new cases in Kollam||The district reported 674 new COVID-19 cases and 461 recoveries on Friday. Those who tested positive include four NRIs, 663 contact cases, two persons with no known source, and five health workers. The district currently has 11,944 persons under observation and the total number of samples collected is 7,19,302. While 1,284 persons completed home quarantine on Friday, the Health Department has traced 1,61,316 primary and 14,106 secondary contacts of the patients.  Alappuzha  The district reported 421 COVID-19 cases on Friday. Of the fresh cases, 414 patients contracted the disease through local transmission, while the source of infection of one person remains unknown. Four persons who came from other States and two from abroad also tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. Meanwhile, 244 people recovered. The active COVID-19 caseload in the district stands at 4,576.  (With inputs from Alappuzha bureau)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/674-new-cases-in-kollam/article33701175.ece
30 January 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||KSRTC on revival path, says Minister||The Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) is on the path of revival with the support of its staff and the public, Minister for Transport A.K. Saseendran has said. Inaugurating a new office building and women’s waiting area at the Punalur KSRTC bus station on Friday, he said the government had been implementing several projects for the overall development of the corporation. “The government has spent over Rs. 5,000 crore in the last five years for various developments. The three zones of the KSRTC including Thiruvananthapuram, Ernakulam and Kozhikode will be made profit-making centres along with the new SWIFT services. After identifying profitable services more attention will be given to them. The profit made will be used to support crisis-ridden services,” said the Minister, who also flagged off the new service from Punalur to Kudiyanmala in Kannur. The KSRTC Punalur unit was operating 54 schedules earlier, but after the pandemic it came down to 34. “All arrangements are in place for operating more services from Punlaur and they will be started within 10 days. In order to address staff shortage, 10 drivers from the Cherthala depot will be temporarily deployed at Punlaur. Steps have been taken to start Punalur-Guruvayoor service also,” he said. Minister K. Raju said various development works of the depot were progressing with public support. The renovation works at the Punalur sub-depot were completed using Rs. 1.6 crore from Mr. Raju’s ADF.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ksrtc-on-revival-path-says-minister/article33701172.ece
30 January 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Applications invited for vacancy||The Chadayamangalam block panchayat has invited applications for the vacancy of accredited engineer in connection with the implementation of the MGNREGS. Qualification needed is engineering degree in the civil or agricultural streams. Those interested can appear for an interview at 10 a.m. on February 9.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/applications-invited-for-vacancy/article33701173.ece
30 January 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Seat-sharing a tough task for UDF in Kottayam||With the primary round of discussions on seat-sharing in the United Democratic Front taking off on Thursday, the stage is now set for intense wrangling between the Congress and the Kerala Congress (M) faction led by P.J. Joseph over the allocation of seats in Kottayam. While the KC(M) looks to field candidates in all the six seats it had contested previously, the Congress, as lead partner of the coalition, is not keen on allotting the regional party more than three seats. The issue is set to be complicated further with the Indian Union Muslim League set to stake claim for the Poonjar seat. Of the nine Assembly seats in the district, the KC(M) had contested from six and the Congress from the remaining three in the previous election. But with the exit of the KC(M) faction led by Jose K. Mani, the Congress now seeks to take over at least half of these seats. Case of Pala “While the Joseph group has a natural claim over the Kaduthuruthy and Changanassery seats, it will have to drive a hard bargain for seats like Poonjar, Kanjirappally, or Ettumanur. There is, however, a broad consensus on Pala if the LDF’s Mani C. Kappen, the sitting MLA, who faces the prospect of losing the seat, decides to align with the UDF,” said a senior Congress leader. No mood to relent The leaders of the Joseph group, however, are in no mood to relent. “There is no question of giving up the Poonjar, Kanjirappally or Ettumanur. The expansion of the Congress in Central Travancore should not be at the cost of the KC(M),” said a party leader. Having demanded 15 seats this time, the party expects to bag anything between 10 to 12 seats including the seven seats that the Joseph group had contested from for long. A broad consensus on seat-sharing is expected to be arrived at a meeting of the UDF district committee on February 4. P.C. George factor Meanwhile, the coalition appears to have put on the back-burner a proposal to cooperate with the Kerala Janapaksham (Secular) led by P.C. George MLA . The move is being dropped in view of the protests against the legislator in and around Erattupetta and strong opposition within a section of the UDF. The Congress, meanwhile, has launched a major revamp in Kottayam that involves setting up of new committees at the booth level, besides reconstituting some of the block and constituency-level committees. The move is in view of the party’s poor performance in the recent local body elections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/seat-sharing-a-tough-task-for-udf-in-kottayam/article33701165.ece
30 January 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Movie a lighter version of real situation: Jeo Baby||Sexual division of labour and commercialisation of marriage form the foundation of domestic violence. Depicting these two aspects clearly is the victory of the movie The Great Indian Kitchen , said feminist activist K. Ajitha. Speaking at a discussion on the topic ‘Are kitchens in Kerala so fearsome?’ in connection with the movie’s theme, organised by Red Youngs and Manjadikkuru theatre fraternity in Kozhikode on Friday, she said the movie was something the feminist movement in Kerala could project to create awareness among people. Director of the movie Jeo Baby said his experience in the kitchen was the driving force behind the film. “The male lead in the movie has shades of my character. The movie brought out the disgusting traits of myself,” he said, adding that the movie was just a lighter version of the real situation. Moderator Shahina Rafeeque cited various criticisms that the movie had faced since its release a couple of weeks ago on an OTT platform. However, Jeo Baby said the criticisms were welcome. “There could have been shortcomings in the script. But it is just how I perceived the issue,” he said. Walkout an option? The female protagonist’s walkout from the house of her husband was applauded by many, as was also criticised. “I know that everyone cannot walk out from similar situations like that. My protagonist is an educated and privileged woman. She can afford to walk out. But not those women who she meets on the roadside doing day-to-day jobs. Hence I cannot suggest a walkout as a solution to the issue,” Jeo Baby said. “The distance between her walkout and the stage where she applauds is too big, that many falter on the way. There is another movie waiting to be made on the hardships of a divorced woman,” he added. Activist Kanakadurga, one of the two women who first entered the Sabarimala temple after the controversial Supreme Court verdict, was part of the discussion. The movie takes up the Sabarimala issue to highlight its effect on ordinary women. Directors Prathap Joseph and A. Shanthakumar, and activist Gargi H. also took part in the discussions. Earlier, the crew of the movie, around 60 of them, and cast who are mostly theatre artistes from Kozhikode, including T. Suresh Babu who played the father-in-law and Kabani who played Usha, the servant, besides lyricist Mridula Devi Sasidharan and singer Niranjana were honoured.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/movie-a-lighter-version-of-real-situation-jeo-baby/article33701094.ece
30 January 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Concern in council over waste collection by private agencies||The involvement of private agencies in the door-to-door collection of waste in Kozhikode is a cause for concern, observed a meeting of the Kozhikode corporation council on Wednesday. In view of the fire that broke out in a scrap collection unit at Cheruvannur recently and the presence of similar units across the city, the corporation needs to keep track on how these private agencies dispose of the waste they collect, said councillor K.P. Rajesh in a submission. The councillor pointed out that the presence of private agencies put a dent on the earnings of the corporation’s Harithakarma Sena. Some councillors pointed out that private agencies were preferred by many as they do not demand segregation of waste. On the other hand, the Harithakarma Sena demands that waste be properly segregated at the source primarily as biodegradable and non-biodegradable besides its subdivisions such as plastic, metal, glass and e-waste. Councillor C.P. Sulaiman said that it was mainly commercial establishments that preferred to hand over waste to private agencies while households complied with the norms of the Harithakarma Sena. He demanded the intervention of the corporation to bring the whole system into the government fold. However, Deputy Mayor C.P. Musafir Ahamed said that the Harithakarma Sena in the corporation was not fully equipped to meet the demands of the whole city. While the Sena is very active and strong in some wards, it has barely started functioning in some others. He said that it was necessary to bear with private agencies until the Sena is fully equipped to meet demands of the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/concern-in-council-over-waste-collection-by-private-agencies/article33701112.ece
30 January 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Traffic police resume ‘Click on and send’ drive||As part of intensifying action against traffic rule violators, the city police have resumed their ‘Click on and send’ special drive, encouraging the public to send images or videos of traffic rule violations through instant messaging applications. They will be examined by a team of traffic police personnel for instant action. Since 2018, the city traffic wing has been acting tough on public complaints received through social media applications and messaging apps. There were also many people who had been awarded the ‘Good Samaritan’ certificates for actively participating in the drive. Similar recognition is also on the cards for those who send the images or visuals of maximum number of violations with clear evidence. According to policemen attached to the traffic wing, they will mainly make use of WhatsApp for receiving public complaints. The numbers are: 6238488686, 9497987176, 9497990113 and 9497990112. “One of the biggest attractions of this special drive is that it will let the complainants know the details of action taken on their complaint,” they add. Any type of traffic rule violations such as helmetless rides, violation of lane traffic discipline, use of mobile phone while driving, overload, one-way rule violations or illegal alteration of vehicles can be messaged to the police. The only condition is that the images should be clear along with details such as the registration number of the vehicle, place of occurrence and time.  Helplines Those who are comfortable with the use of Facebook or Qkopy instant messaging app also can use them for alerting cops on violations. Helpline numbers can also be used to seek the support of traffic patrol squads to reach any particular location for spot action. The Motor Vehicles Department is also planning to launch a similar drive across the State to improve citizens’ participation in law enforcement drives.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/traffic-police-resume-click-on-and-send-drive/article33701095.ece
30 January 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Marine ambulance reaches Beypore port||Fishermen’s long-pending demand for a full-fledged rescue team to quickly respond to distress calls has finally become a reality with the launch of Karunya Marine Ambulance Service in Kozhikode district. The custom-made boat, which reached Beypore on Friday, was accorded a grand reception under the leadership of Beypore MLA V.K.C Mammad Koya. The fully equipped rescue boat with 24x7 support of medical staff was designed by complying with the international safety protocol by the Cochin Shipyard. Karunya was one of the three such custom-made boats made for coastal districts in the State. The government spent Rs. 18 crore for the completion of the three ambulances. Fisheries Department officials said the boat, which was flagged off from Kochi on Thursday, was made at a cost of Rs. 6 crore with all the advanced features to attend to 10 persons at a time. With a length of 22.5 metres and a speed of 14 knots, it was built with facilities such as examination and nursing room, medical bed, emergency medicines, mortuary freezer and medical lockers, they said. Officials also said the staff required for the functioning of the boat would be appointed by the Kerala Fishing and Inland Navigation Corporation. The appointment of nursing staff has already been completed. The boat’s service would also be available for all northern Kerala districts in emergency situations. MLA’s promise V.K.C. Mammad Koya, MLA, who opened the reception event at Beypore, said fishermen and their associations at the harbour should ensure the boat’s successful operation. He said the marine ambulance service was one of the many exclusive development projects planned for the development of the fishing harbour. Referring to some of the yet-to-be completed projects for fishers in the area, Mr. Koya said all the required developmental needs had already been brought to the attention of the State government for immediate action. “A comprehensive development plan for Beypore is on the anvil under the leadership of District Collector Seeram Sambasiva Rao and it will totally change the location,” he said. District Collector Seeram Sambasiva Rao, representatives of fishermen organisations, people’s representatives and Fisheries officials were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/marine-ambulance-reaches-beypore-port/article33701103.ece
30 January 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Nirdesh pins its hopes on Union Budget||The National Institute for Research and Development in Defence Shipbuilding (Nirdesh) in Kozhikode is pinning its hopes for revival on the Union Budget to be presented by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Monday. The 10-year-old institute functioning directly under the Department of Defence Production on a 40-acre land at Chaliyam has been in state of limbo almost all these years. Funds sourced via the Mazagon Dock Limited, Goa Shipyard Limited, Hindustan Shipyard Limited, and Garden Reach Shipbuilders and Engineers Limited are sustaining the project. When Former Defence Minister A.K. Antony laid the foundation stone for Nirdesh in 2011, the Centre had promised that a world-class ship designing institute would be established at a cost of Rs. 600 crore in the subsequent years. However, the project was caught in a bureaucratic maze of Ministries of Defence and Finance resulting in the project failing to take off. All these years, some infrastructure came up on the land and training were conducted apart from research collaboration with Central government institutions. Proposals to design small vessels for the Navy as well as harbour vessels, tugs, ferries, and survey ships and to set up a design software unit and training centre for naval architecture are in the cold storage. A Rs. 200-crore revival package that was mooted to revive the project also failed to yield any positive results.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nirdesh-pins-its-hopes-on-union-budget/article33701114.ece
30 January 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||710 new COVID cases in Kozhikode||The Health department on Friday confirmed COVID-19 in 710 more persons in Kozhikode district. With this, the total number of patients undergoing treatment for the viral infection has reached 7,971. Of the newly confirmed cases, 683 persons contracted the virus through local transmission. The source remained unknown in the case of other persons. Among the newly confirmed cases, there were four health workers and one Gulf returnee. No one from other States figured in the latest list. Based on the updated list of primary and secondary contacts, over 1,000 more persons were added to the list of people under observation. At the same time, 670 persons who were undergoing treatment in various hospitals were discharged on Friday. According to Health department officials, 5,772 more samples were sent for lab tests on Friday. They said the number of tests would be increased in the days to come. On Friday, the highest number of 168 local transmission cases were reported from the city corporation limits.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/710-new-covid-cases-in-kozhikode/article33701104.ece
30 January 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||CM to open new police station building||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan will inaugurate the newly constructed Kunnamangalam police station building on February 5. It is one of the model police stations in Kozhikode district selected for implementing various community policing schemes. The new building is situated in a one-and-a-half acre spacious compound. The State government has spent Rs. 1.49 crore for the construction of the new building with better facilities. Improved surveillance camera systems and a better road to the station are also part of the new project. For its completion, a local development fund of Rs. 64 lakh had been sanctioned by P.T.A. Rahim, MLA. According to the Kunnamangalam police, the surveillance camera system under a hi-tech control room is part of a comprehensive city surveillance project, which will ensure better night surveillance in Kunnamangalam town area. Recurring incidents of thefts and other crimes had prompted many traders in the area to find a permanent solution like this with the support of the police, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cm-to-open-new-police-station-building/article33701111.ece
30 January 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Award for industrialist||TiE Kerala has selected P.K. Ahammed, chairman of Peekay Steel Castings (P) Limited for the “Life time achievement award” for 2020 for his outstanding contribution in promoting entrepreneurship in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/award-for-industrialist/article33701092.ece
30 January 2021||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Arya Vaidya Sala to celebrate Founder’s Day||Kottakkal Arya Vaidya Sala will celebrate its Founder’s Day on Saturday. The celebrations will coincide with the 57th Ayurveda seminar on “Post-COVID-19 Syndrome”. “We have clubbed the two prestigious annual events considering the special demand by the special occasion created by COVID-19,” said Arya Vaidya Sala chief physician P. Madhavankutty Varier. The celebrations will begin with floral tributes at the statue of Arya Vaidya Sala founder P.S. Varier on Saturday morning. V.R. Prabhodhachandran Nair, former chairman of the Kerala Kala Mandalam, will deliver the P.S. Varier Memorial Lecture..||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/arya-vaidya-sala-to-celebrate-founders-day/article33701101.ece
30 January 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Republic Day celebrated||The Shabari Ashram at Akathethara near here celebrated Republic Day by cleaning up the premises. Ashram’s old students association leaders V. Subramanian, Narayanan, and Kandamoothan led the drive. Kerala Harijan Seva Sangham secretary N. Gopalakrishnan hoisted the national flag. Shabari Ashram secretary T. Devan, Harijan Seva Sangham vice president K. Unnikrishnan, treasurer M.N.G. Panikkar, and ashram manager K.C. Raju spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/republic-day-celebrated/article33701289.ece
30 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Adalats for swift action||A system has been put in place as part of Santhwana Sparsam, a grievance redressal adalat, to swiftly address the issues faced by the public in the district. The complaints, which will be classified by officials from various departments, will be handed over immediately to the district offices. All steps have been taken to ensure complete success of the adalat, Social Justice Department Secretary Biju Prabhakar, who is the coordinator for the adalat in the region, said in an overview meeting here on Friday. Complaints related to all government departments will be taken up at the Santhwana Sparsam adalat. Complaints can be submitted through Akshaya centres free of cost oncmo.kerala.gov.intill February 2. The complainant should provide a contact number along with the complaint. The details regarding processing and the docket number will be sent to this number. A team headed by District Collector Navjot Khosa is classifying the complaints. Elaborate arrangements Mr. Prabhakar instructed the officials to consider each of the complaints seriously and to address the issue immediately. Medical facilities, ambulance services, police, and Fire and Rescue Services will be available at all the adalat venues. KSRTC special services will operate on the days of the adalat. Complaints from two taluks each will be taken up on a day. On February 8, complaints from Kattakada and Neyyattinkara taluks will be taken up at the Neyyatinkara Government Boys Higher Secondary School. On February 9, complaints from Varkala and Chirayinkeezh taluks will be taken up at the Attingal Government Boys Higher Secondary School. On February 11, complaints from the Thiruvananthapuram and Nedumangadu taluks will be taken up at the adalat to be held at the SMV Higher Secondary School.  Details regarding processing and the docket number will be sent to the number provided with complaint||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/adalats-for-swift-action/article33701321.ece
30 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Compelling questions on State’s pandemic management||Exactly a year after SARS-CoV-2 reached the shores of Kerala, when the virus was first detected in a student from Wuhan, the State has come full circle. It now finds itself in the spotlight again: this time it has the highest case pool of active COVID-19 cases in the country. Kerala’s graph is steadily climbing, while it is going down in the rest of the country. Kerala’s brush with Nipah was what initially shaped its response to the coronavirus. Though the nature of both was entirely different, the public was well-oriented towards masking, isolation, contact tracing and quarantine when these suddenly became the imperatives against COVID. In fact, much of Kerala’s successes in COVID containment were led by an aware and vigilant public, local bodies and the police, rather than the Health Department. Achievement Kerala’s biggest achievement was the manner in which it meticulously did strategic testing of symptomatic persons, contact tracing, isolation and treatment so that the peak was delayed. At no point was the public health system overwhelmed by patient overflow and mortality rate was kept under check. Delaying the peak also meant that the disease transmission would be slow and prolonged in the community. “This trajectory of the pandemic was expected and we were prepared for a long plateau. What we did not reckon was the level of fatigue that had set in amongst field health workers and a weary public,” says Rajeev Sadanandan, Chief Minister’s adviser on COVID. As the plateau got extended, the State eased up on restrictions in public places. The public was lulled into believing that the pandemic was on its way out. By this time, contact tracing and follow-up in the field had become non-existent; the police had officially withdrawn from their task of maintaining COVID protocols and the political attention had moved on from COVID. Herd immunity A committee of the Department of Science and Technology which analysed India’s COVID cases in December reported that till November Kerala had missed about 25 infections for every medically diagnosed case while this was about 70-120 cases for most other States and 300 or more for Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. This meant that while most States would have attained high herd immunity levels, Kerala’s population largely remained susceptible. “The current course of COVID in the State is but the natural course of the pandemic and it will not go away till at least 60% of the population is affected. If we are pointing to how other States have brought down their case graph, then an explanation is in order on what these States did differently than Kerala,” says T.S. Anish, public health expert. That said, right from the beginning, surveillance and data management are areas where Kerala seriously messed up. The State never opened up the primary database from districts for data analysts to generate more granular or disaggregated data. Such micro-level data could have given valuable pointers on identifying case clusters, where surveillance and testing needed to be stepped up. Political exigencies also led the government to deliberately delay conducting a serosurveillance study till local body poll results were out. A study at the right time could have given a clear indication of the actual prevalence of the disease in the community. To what extent did the government uphold transparency and balance political compulsions against science will forever remain the most compelling questions on Kerala’s COVID management.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/compelling-questions-on-states-pandemic-management/article33701147.ece
30 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Isaac: KIIFB funds set aside for key city projects||The Detailed Project Report (DPR) for the Capital Region Development Programme (CRDP) has been prepared and a company to implement the project will be formed soon, Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac said here on Friday. He was speaking at a seminar on capital development based on the announcements in the State Budget for the financial year 2021-22. “Developing the capital as a knowledge hub will be the most suitable option. Even common people will be part of this initiative. There will not be a digital divide. Our idea of knowledge society implies access to knowledge for everyone, who then would play a part in innovation. The infrastructure needed for these industries are now being developed,” he said. Dr. Isaac said funds had been allocated from the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB) for a host of projects, including the Vattiyurkavu junction development, and for the construction of flyovers. The second phase of the City Road Improvement Project (CRIP) will also begin soon. These projects, along with the proposed flyovers at Pattom and Ulloor, would smoothen the traffic flow within the city. He said the existing sewage treatment plant might be insufficient to meet the demands in the future, owing to which extensions to the same would be made. As part of the ‘Aarogya Nagaram’ initiative, a Rs. 700-crore project to improve the Government Medical College, Thiruvananthapuram, was being implemented.  Heritage city Dr. Isaac placed the heritage city project as one of the most promising projects for the city that will change its face, with conservation activities of the various heritage buildings and spots. The film city project at Chithranjali would turn the city into one of the best production hubs in the State. “What we have envisaged in the Budget are the projects to be carried out in the city over the next five years. We will consult with domain experts from various areas to formulate these projects,” he said. He asked Mayor Arya Rajendran to turn the city Corporation into a coordinator of all the projects taken up by the various departments in the city. The Mayor had to organise review meetings every three months to analyse the progress of these projects. Personalities from various fields and city residents put forward their suggestions regarding the city’s development. Former Chief Secretary S.M. Vijayanand said a master plan was necessary for spatial planning of the city’s development. He said the lack of a BUDS School within the Corporation area had to be addressed. Social Justice Department Secretary Biju Prabhakar said walkways and foot bridges were necessary in various parts of the city. Filmmaker Shaji N. Karun lauded the government for taking up the Chithranjali film city project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/isaac-kiifb-funds-set-aside-for-key-city-projects/article33701331.ece
30 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||3 key projects may get short shrift in Budget||Three key projects, two of them to be executed on 50:50 cost-sharing basis between the State and Railways, aimed at the upgrade of Kerala’s railway network and speedier travel are unlikely to get sufficient allocation in the Union Budget. The 529.45-km semi-high speed rail SilverLine, billed as a game-changer in State’s infrastructure as well as economic development, is yet to receive the nod of Railways and the Centre. Although Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan is pursuing the new line from Kochuveli to Kasaragod with special interest despite opposition from various quarters, Railways are yet to give its approval to the Detailed Project Report (DPR) submitted by Kerala Rail Development Corporation Limited (K-Rail), a joint venture of Railways and the State. Official sources said the chances of the project figuring in the Budget were bleak as the DPR had not been cleared. Coaching terminal The delay on the part of the Railway Board to give approval to the DPR for the Rs. 116.57-crore Phase I of the Nemom coaching terminal will again confine the project to paper. The coaching terminal, whose foundation stone was laid, had failed to get capital in the previous Union Budget as Rs. 50 lakh was made available from the Safety Fund. The DPR for the terminal has been lying with the Railway Board since November 2, 2019. The foundation stone was laid by Railway Minister Piyush Goyal on March 7, 2019. The third key project that is likely to be hit will be the 111.2-km Angamaly-Erumely Sabari Rail aimed at putting the Sabarimala temple into the railway network. The project has got a new lease of life with Kerala agreeing on January 6, 2021 to bear 50% of the estimated Rs. 2,815.62 crore. The official notification of January 7, 2021 by the State that states that the income received will be shared on 50:50 between the State and Railways after deducting the expense incurred has reached Railways. The Transport Department had earlier cancelled a government order issued during the tenure of the previous United Democratic Front government for cost-sharing. Railways are sceptical of the present move and see it as one aimed at the forthcoming elections to the Assembly, sources added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/3-key-projects-may-get-short-shrift-in-budget/article33701151.ece
30 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Decision awaited on Kanayi Kunhiraman’s plea||It has been almost three weeks since the meeting between Tourism Minister Kadakampally Surendran and sculptor Kanayi Kunhiraman at Shanghumughom, but a decision is awaited on Mr. Kunhiraman’s plea that the decommissioned Indian Air Force helicopter placed near his Sagarakanyaka sculpture be shifted elsewhere. Mr. Kunhiraman, who is busy with a project at the Kumaran Asan National Institute of Culture at Thonnackal, said he had not received any word from the Minister or the Tourism Department since the January 11 meeting. The sculptor said he has been trying to get in touch with Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. In the meantime, construction has been progressing at a frenetic pace on the once-landscaped mounds next to the iconic, 105-ft-long mermaid sculpture. Stalemate After a controversy erupted over the Mi-8 chopper, Mr. Surendran had invited Mr. Kunhiraman to a meeting at Shanghumughom, but it had ended in a stalemate. Mr. Kunhiraman had maintained that the helicopter should be shifted. He also objected to the new constructions around his sculpture saying that they marred the very concept on which the mermaid and the surrounding landscapes were based. The sculptor said on Friday that he was not prepared for compromises on the issue. On January 13, the matter found its way into the Legislative Assembly. Replying to questions, the Tourism Minister said the helicopter was placed approximately 50 m away from the sculpture. To a related question, he said the department had not received any complaints about its placement. Meanwhile, a senior Tourism Department official said a suggestion that trees should be planted between the helicopter and the sculpture was being considered by the department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/decision-awaited-on-kanayi-kunhiramans-plea/article33701334.ece
30 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||UDF expanding ties with fundamentalists: CPI(M)||Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] acting State secretary A. Vijayaraghavan said on Friday that the United Democratic Front (UDF) had expanded its alliance with religion-based parties in the Assembly polls. Voters had rejected the UDF in the local body polls after it was caught red-handed kowtowing to the Jamaat-e-Islami and its political arm, the Welfare Party of India (WPI). The UDF, at the instance of the Indian Union Muslim League, continued to press on with the relationship. The WPI propped up Congress presidents in scores of panchayats.  Thin line The line between the Congress and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) had become increasingly thin. Congress Ministers in Puducherry had defected to the BJP. The Sangh Parivar brand of Hindu nationalist politics was not anathema to the Congress any more. The Congress had assembled a motley crew of centre-right Hindu groups and borderline Islamists to defeat the Left Democratic Front in the Assembly polls. In contrast, the CPI(M)’s political line was firmly moored to secularism and unflinching. The party faced the elections with a strong focus on social welfare, infrastructure development, education, health, agriculture, environment, gender equality, social liberty and improvement in general quality of life. The UDF had no comparable plan, he added. Meanwhile, Congress leaders attacked Mr. Vijayaraghavan for injecting an angry tenor of Islamophobia into the election campaign.  Tacit understanding UDF convener M.M. Hassan said Mr. Vijayaraghavan’s rant against the IUML was indicative of the tacit understanding the CPI(M) had struck with the BJP. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan should state whether the IUML, which partnered with the CPI(M) in 1964 to share power, was a fundamentalist outfit. The BJP’s plot to render the Congress politically irrelevant appeared to have found takers in the CPI(M) State leadership. The Centre had back-pedalled the multiple investigations into the gold smuggling case to politically aid the CPI(M), he added. Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee president Mullappally Ramachandran, working president K. Sudhakaran and All India Congress Committee general secretary K.C. Venugopal condemned Mr. Vijayaraghavan’s “attack” on the IUML. Mr. Venugopal said in Kalpetta that the CPI(M) and the BJP were the opposite sides of the same coin.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/udf-expanding-ties-with-fundamentalists-cpim/article33701319.ece
30 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Medical college doctors threaten indefinite strike||The faculty of Government Medical Colleges across the State boycotted duty and stayed away from OP clinics and elective surgeries from 8 a.m. to 11 a.m. on Friday to protest against the government’s indecisiveness in implementing the pay revision of medical college teachers, with arrears pending since 2016.  The faculty will go on a relay hunger strike from February 5 if Friday’s token strike does not persuade the government to initiate talks with doctors and settle issues without delay. If the government does not announce a favourable decision, the entire faculty at Government Medical Colleges will go on indefinite strike from February 9 and boycott all services, except emergencies and COVID-19 care, Kerala Government Medical College Teachers’ Association (KGMCTA) said in a statement here. The KGMCTA also protested against the government order slashing the pay of Assistant Professor in entry cadre. They said here that the faculty had decided to boycott all teaching activities of undergraduates, PG students, and super speciality students. They will also stay away from all Medical Boards, VIP duties, and meetings other than than those related to COVID-19.  Faculty of medical colleges across the State boycotted duty and stayed away from OP clinics and elective surgeries from 8 a.m. to 11 a.m. on Friday||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/medical-college-doctors-threaten-indefinite-strike/article33701288.ece
30 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Forest dept. institutes probe into alleged turtle poaching||The Forest Department has initiated an inquiry into the alleged poaching of a turtle that is suspected to have taken place near Vizhinjam on Friday. The investigation was launched on the basis of a video circulated by People for Animals (PFA), a non-governmental organisation (NGO), on social media that captured gruesome visuals of a woman removing the innards of the reptile as it writhed in pain.  The alleged incident occurred at Pulluvila. A post accompanying the clip claimed that a dolphin had also been butchered in similar fashion a few days ago. Scheduled animal A team from the Paruthippally forest range office was dispatched to the location of the crime. Poaching of turtles, a scheduled animal, amounts to violation of the provisions of the Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972. Besides, the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960, can be invoked in such cases. According to Shaji Jose T.F., Paruthippally forest range officer, a case will be registered in connection with the incident. Efforts were being made to bring to book those involved in the incident. The allegations of similar instances being reported from the region will also be investigated. The official said regular interventions were being made to sensitise fisherfolk to endangered and other animals that were protected under various laws and the need to conserve such species.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/forest-dept-institutes-probe-into-alleged-turtle-poaching/article33701327.ece
30 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||414 new cases in capital||The capital district’s COVID-19 caseload increased as 414 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Friday. The number of active cases was 4,506 with 376 COVID-19 patients recovering from the illness. While 6,204 tests being conducted during the last 24 hours, the test positivity rate stood at 6.67%. Barring three imported cases, almost all cases have been attributed to local transmission of the infection. The source of infection is unknown in 98 cases. Two health-care workers are among those who tested positive. The district administration placed 1,621 people in quarantine, while 1,257 others were permitted to conclude self-isolation after testing negative for the disease. Currently, there were 22,127 people quarantined at their houses and 55 in various institutions in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/414-new-cases-in-capital/article33701329.ece
30 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||A lost research opportunity||Kerala turned its back on its scientific community and academia and totally ignored scholastic and clinical research during an entire year of the pandemic. And that is a huge negative on the State’s balance sheet on COVID-19. The only solid research done during the pandemic period, a pilot genomic surveillance study at the Government Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode, was done by the Delhi-based IGIB, and it also encouraged the State government to initiate a proper genomic surveillance study across districts. Original strain “The very first case of COVID-19, that too, the original virus strain from Wuhan, was first reported in Kerala. Some of us who excitedly submitted proposals for epidemiological studies and genomic sequencing were totally disappointed by the State’s response,” a senior scientist said. “We have no dearth of scientific institutions or inquisitive minds. Our medical colleges have had an year’s experience in treating COVID-19 patients, including some miraculous saves. Yet, all attempts to initiate clinical research or clinical trials were shot down saying that we needed Indian Council of Medical Research’s approval. We even offered to bring together a brilliant team for research but the government was not keen,” a public health expert said “Kerala could have had a very informed response to the pandemic had we explored more. A new disease, COVID-19 would have been a huge learning experience. But that is one lost opportunity which the authorities do not even want to see,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-lost-research-opportunity/article33701142.ece
30 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||UDF counters ‘demonisation’ of IUML||The Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) has made a concerted pitch to counter what its leaders describe a “demonisation” of the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML). The front reportedly feels the Left Democratic Front’s (LDF) bid to "stir prejudice" against the IUML to polarise voters on religious lines had fallen on receptive ears, especially among the Christian community in central and south Kerala. The "Islamophobic" propaganda reflected in the erosion of traditional UDF votes in the recent local body polls. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) had also electorally benefited from the bogey of radical Islam raised by the LDF. A party insider said several external factors had caused the adverse focus on the IUML politics. In January, the Syro-Malabar Church had passed a resolution expressing concern over the “rising cases of love jihad.” The synod saw an Islamist plot that targeted young Christians.  Chandrika editorial Soon, the LDF slammed a top IUML leader for endorsing the Turkey government's decision to change the iconic Hagia Sophia's status from a historical museum to a mosque. His position appeared consistent with that of radical Islamist organisations. The IUML newspaper Chandrika had carried the leader's opinion piece prominently. LDF criticism The IUML's stance prompted LDF convener A. Vijayaraghavan to state that the party had gained a definite Islamist edge. Soon, he portrayed the IUML as a “Trojan Horse” for the Jamaat-e-Islami and other Islamist outfits to gain control of the UDF. The UDF leaders had overtly courted the Welfare Party of India (WPI ) in the run-up to the local body polls. The LDF had blamed the IUML for the "alliance". The Congress had attacked the "hostile Islamophobic drift" the LDF and BJP leaders had allegedly brought into the campaign. On Friday, two Metropolitans of the Malankara Orthodox Syrian Church called on IUML State president Panakkad Syed Hyderali Shihab Thangal at his residence in Malappuram. They termed the visit "a friendly call". Simultaneously, Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala and former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy called on Baselios Thomas 1 of the Jacobite Syrian Christian Church at his headquarters at Putnehkurishu in Kochi.  They had also met the Sree Narayana Dharma Paripalana Yogam (SNDP) Yogam and Nair Service Society leadership. The Kerala Yatra by Mr. Chennithala will attempt to bring all communities on board.  “The Islamophobic" propaganda reflected in the erosion of traditional UDF votes in the recent local body polls.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/udf-counters-demonisation-of-iuml/article33701110.ece
30 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||CM presents State film awards||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Friday presented the State Film Awards for 2019 at a function at the Tagore Hall here. He also presented the J.C. Daniel award to filmmaker Hariharan. Culture Minister A.K. Balan presided. Entry to the function was limited to the award winners and invited guests due to the prevailing COVID-19 protocols. Mr. Vijayan said that the State film awards, which completed 50 years this year, had played a key role in the artistic growth of Malayalam cinema. Artistic value It nurtured those who experimented with new subjects and techniques, providing them the necessary confidence to reach for even greater heights. The awards had honoured artistic value as well as works which stood for progressive values.  Vasanthi , a tale on a woman’s survival against odds, directed by Rahman brothers (Shinos Rahman and Sajas Rahman) won the award for the best film, while Lijo Jose Pellissery picked up his second best director award in three years for Jallikattu . Suraj Venjaramoodu won the best actor (male) award and Kani Kusruti won the best actor (female) award.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cm-presents-state-film-awards/article33701141.ece
30 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||‘Nothing wrong in antigen tests ’||Kerala’s “over reliance” on antigen tests, which are less sensitive, rather than the gold standard RT-PCR (reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction) test, is responsible for the State’s current predicament, a huge majority believes. How factual is this? “There is a clear distinction between testing a person for clinical diagnosis and testing for public health surveillance. From a public health perspective, one should worry less about test sensitivity and prioritise testing frequency and faster turnaround time. Even the most sensitive RT-PCR test has a sensitivity of only about 70% which means that we are likely to miss 30%,” said T.S. Anish, Associate Professor of Community Medicine, Government Medical College Hospital, Thiruvananthapuram. Moreover, PCR tests are more resource intensive, require a high turnaround time and are not easily accessible. Key role Antigen tests, on the other hand, are point of-care tests which can pick up individuals when they are the most infectious. Thus, they have a key role in rapidly identifying those at highest risk for transmitting disease. (Rethinking COVID-19 Test Sensitivity — A Strategy for Containment, M. Mina et.al, NEJM Nov. 2020) Fast identification “Tests that can quickly identify many individuals with infectious virus (rather than simply viral RNA), including when individuals have no symptoms, could limit the spread of infection and help prevent large outbreaks. Antigen tests have the potential to serve this role,” (November 13, 2020 JAMA). Rapid antigen tests being the villain, is “utter nonsense”, a public health expert has said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nothing-wrong-in-antigen-tests/article33701143.ece
30 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Helping them realise a dream||The three-decade-long dream of a mother and son for a roof over their heads has been realised by the Kudumbashree members of Aryanad grama panchayat. The Kudumbashree women in the panchayat came together to build a ‘Snehaveedu’ for Omana and her son Johnny, both of whom are mentally ill. Omana, 65, and Johnny, 37, used to live in a run-down house at Kanjirammoodu before moving to her sister’s house a year ago. As they had no regular source of income, the Kudumbashree had included them under the Padheyam scheme for providing packed meals. Though Omana had tried to get a house sanctioned for years, her mental condition made it difficult to get funds to build a house on her own. It was at this stage that the Kudumbashree came forward to build her a house, especially as Omana was a beneficiary of the Kudumbashree Snehitha Calling Bell initiative for the elderly living alone. Each of the 370 Kudumbashree neighbourhood groups in the panchayat contributed Rs. 1,000, taking the total money raised to over Rs. 3.5 lakh. Construction began after bringing down Omana’s dilapidated house on 5 cents. The neighbourhood group members’ efforts resulted in a 400-sq ft house, with one bedroom, a hall, kitchen and bathroom.  Aryanad grama panchayat president V. Bijumohan named the house ‘Snehaveedu’ and handed over the keys to the beneficiaries on Wednesday. Kudumbashree district mission coordinator K.R. Shaiju, community development society chairperson Sunitha Kumari, and Kudumbashree members were present. Ms. Sunitha Kumari said they would make attempts to get treatment for Omana and Johnny so that they could lead normal lives.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/helping-them-realise-a-dream/article33701336.ece
30 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||6,268 cases, 22 deaths||Kerala reported 6,268 COVID-19 cases on Friday. The test positivity rate was 10.66%. With 6,398 recoveries, active cases touched 72,239. On Friday, 22 more deaths were added to the official list. Thiruvananthapuram reported seven deaths, Kottayam and Kozhikode four each, Ernakulam three, while Pathanamthitta, Thrissur, Malappuram and Kannur reported one death each. Among districts, Ernakulam reported 865 cases, Kozhikode 710, Kollam 674, Kottayam 623, Thrissur 497, Pathanamthitta 447, Alappuzha 421, Malappuram 414, Thiruvananthapuram 414, Kannur 349, Idukki 302, Palakkad 259, Wayanad 173 and Kasaragod 120.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/6268-cases-22-deaths/article33701144.ece
30 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Master scale of 83 stages, 27 scales||The 11th Kerala Pay Revision Commission headed by K. Mohandas has come up with a master scale of 83 stages while arriving at 27 pay scales with a minimum salary of Rs. 23,000 and a maximum of Rs. 1,66,800. Special allowance for village officers and tahsildars and special pay for specialty doctors, super-specialty doctors, and specialist Ayurveda doctors has been recommended to the government. The commission, in its report submitted to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Friday, has recommended upgrade of the key post of tahsildar to principal tahsildar with higher pay scale. In the engineering departments, the post of overseer grade I and draftsman grade I will be renamed as Sub Engineer. Career Advance Scheme Ayurveda, homoeopathic, and veterinary doctors will get a higher pay scale as per the Career Advance Scheme (CAS). Unification of salaries of paramedical staff in the Health Department has also been recommended by the Pay Revision Commission. More sections have been included in the professional category for CAS and high scales introduced. The time-bound higher-grade scheme has been simplified by the Pay Revision Commission. The allowances of the personnel in the police force will be merged and additional grades have been recommended. Additional allowances have been mooted for personnel working in various courts. The personnel in the nursing wing will get enhanced uniform allowance and additional grades, besides a 10% increase in other allowances.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/master-scale-of-83-stages-27-scales/article33701138.ece
30 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Revised timetable for SSLC examinations||The revised timetable for the SSLC examinations beginning March 17 has been published. There is change in the dates for Physics, Social Science, First Language Part 2, and Biology examinations. The revised timetable is: March 17 (1.40 p.m. to 3.30 p.m.): First Language Part 1; March 18 (1.40 p.m. to 4.30 p.m.): Second Language English; March 19 (2.40 p.m. to 4.30 p.m.): Third Language Hindi/General Knowledge; March 22 (1.40 p.m. to 4.30 p.m.): Social Science. March 23 (1.40 p.m. to 3.30 p.m.): First Language Part 2; March 25 (1.40 p.m. to 3.30 p.m.): Physics; March 26 (2.40 p.m. to 4.30 p.m.): Biology; March 29 (1.40 p.m. to 4.30 p.m.): Mathematics; March 30 (1.40 p.m. to 3.30 p.m.): Chemistry. Model exams The SSLC model examinations will be held from March 1 to March 5 in the morning or afternoon hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/revised-timetable-for-sslc-examinations/article33701145.ece
30 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Two arrested for murder||The Ayiroor police on Friday arrested two persons in connection with the murder of their neighbour during the early hours of the day. Kunjumon, 45, and Santhosh, 35, of Charumkuzhy were arrested in connection with the murder of 35-year-old Raju. Following a dispute, the Raju was allegedly stabbed to death by the duo. Santhosh also bludgeoned Raju using an iron rod in a fit of rage. Despite being rushed to a hospital nearby, Raju’s life could not be saved.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-arrested-for-murder/article33701330.ece
30 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||British Council to train nurses||The government has entered into an agreement with the British Council to train 10,000 nurses in English language to clear the IELTS (International English Language Testing System) examination for them to be eligible for employment opportunities across the world. Principal Secretary, Higher Education, Usha Titus and Director, British Council South India, Janaka Pushpanathan signed the agreement in the presence of Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac and Higher Education Minister K.T. Jaleel here on Friday. The training, conducted under the Additional Skill Acquisition Programme, will have the council imparting lessons in a blended learning format comprising both synchronous or live and asynchronous training.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/british-council-to-train-nurses/article33701152.ece
30 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Project for Indo-Russian cooperation||The Russian Cultural Centre here has launched a new project to promote cooperation between institutions in Russia and those in Kerala in the area of science and technology. The initiative has been introduced as part of the ‘Year of Science and Technology’ celebrations in Russia this year. G. Madhavan Nair, former chairman of the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO), inaugurated a ‘Science and technology festival’ on the occasion on Thursday. Mr. Madhavan Nair said Russia had always given priority to development of science and technology. “Russia is not only researching many spheres of technology, but also extending help to friendly nations. Indo-Russian cooperation in the space and nuclear sectors is an excellent example.”  Nandini V. Kumar, former Deputy Director General of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), said India and Russia had gone a step ahead in developing a vaccine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/project-for-indo-russian-cooperation/article33701324.ece
30 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Minister releases calendar for schools||The National Service Scheme of the higher secondary wing of the General Education Department has brought out a calendar of observances and planner for schools with stress on anti-substance abuse activities as part of COVID-19 prevention. Minister for Excise T.P. Ramakrishnan released the calendar and planner, brought out in association with the State Vimukthi Cell for school staff rooms, here on Friday, according to a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/minister-releases-calendar-for-schools/article33701326.ece
30 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||CPI(M) slams police action against farmers||The Communist Party of India (Marxist) condemned the police action against agitating farmers in New Delhi. CPI(M) acting State secretary A. Vijayaraghavan said the Uttar Pradesh government had sent goon squads comprising Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) volunteers wearing hoods to attack the farmers alongside paramilitary forces. The Central government posed an existential threat to democracy, secularism, and federalism. It had muscled through patently anti-Muslim laws. The farm laws threatened farmers’ livelihood and rendered them vulnerable to the vagaries of market forces and corporates. The Bharatiya Janata Party had created a military State in Kashmir after abrogating its special status. The CPI(M) has challenged the move in the Supreme Court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cpim-slams-police-action-against-farmers/article33701097.ece
30 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||City student bags Bal Puraskar||Hrudaya R. Krishnan, a Class 12 student of Christ Nagar English Higher Secondary School, Kowdiar, has received the Pradhan Mantri Rashtriya Bal Puraskar for this year in the field of art and culture. The Pipinmoodu resident has received the ‘A’ grade at the State School Arts Festival for Veena for four consecutive years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/city-student-bags-bal-puraskar/article33701323.ece
30 January 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||497 test positive in Thrissur||The spike in the number of COVID-19 cases in the district is a cause of concern for the Health Department. The district disaster management committee on Friday decided to intensify preventive measures in view of the spike in cases. Strict action would be taken against those violating the COVID-19 protocol, the District Collector said. The first case in the country was reported in Thrissur in a medical student who returned from Wuhan University on January 30 last year. Though the Health Department managed to check the tally, it is increasing once again in the district. A total of 497 COVID-19 cases were reported in the district on Friday while 588 people recovered from the pandemic. There are 3,856 active cases in the district and 110 people from the district are undergoing treatment in hospitals in other districts. So far, 86,656 cases have been reported from the district and 81,294 people have recovered. According to official statistics, 476 people, including ten health workers, contracted the disease through local contact on Friday. Of them, 101 are above the age of 60 and 21 are below the age of 10. In all, 3,359 people are under home care. In all, 119 people were admitted to hospitals on Friday. A total of 5,445 samples were collected for testing on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/497-test-positive-in-thrissur/article33701284.ece
30 January 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Muslim outfits controlling LDF and UDF, says BJP||The Left Democratic Front (LDF) and the United Democratic Front (UDF) in the State are under the influence of Muslim religious fundamentalists, BJP State president K. Surendran has said. He was addressing mediapersons after the BJP State committee meeting here on Friday. The BJP would keep equal distance from both, he said. “The IUML and the Jamaat-e-Islami are controlling the UDF. The left front is in alliance with the Popular Front and SDPI,” he said. Giving clear indication of pro-Christian strategies of the party, Mr. Surendran said the majority community and the Christian community were not getting their due. The Christian leadership had complained to Prime Minister Narendra Modi that even the welfare measures given by the Centre were not reaching them, he said. Both the UDF and the LDF were promoting communalism. The Congress had no voice in the UDF. Decisions were taken by the IUML. The UDF should make it clear whether they would give the deputy chief minister post to the IUML if they got power, he said. “The Congress has not cleared why Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala has been kept aside. Mr. Ramesh has been a victim of vote bank politics. People from the majority community have no future in the UDF,” Mr. Surendran said. The State government and the Chief Minister were trying to take credit of the Central schemes, he alleged. “It is a lie that 2.5 lakh houses were built under the LIFE project. Houses were built under Prime Minister Awas Yojana. Alappuzha and Kollam bypasses are also achievements of the Centre,” he said.  Both the UDF and the LDF are promoting communalism K. Surendran BJP State president||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/muslim-outfits-controlling-ldf-and-udf-says-bjp/article33701286.ece
30 January 2021||January 30 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Tacky treatment lets down jetpack topic||A story material powerful enough to make conservative elements rise up in anger is like a jetpack for any filmmaker. Unni R.’s story Vaanku (Azaan), on which the movie is based, had also spawned a school drama a couple of years ago, leading to protests from those who wanted no questioning of religious practices. Yet, the movie adaptation, directed by debutante Kavya Prakash, is marked by a certain flatness. The whole movie hinges on a wish that Raziya (Anaswara Rajan), a final-year college student, has set her heart upon. She wants to recite the muezzin’s azaan call, which only males are allowed to do as per religious strictures. Before the wish is revealed, we are shown hints of what is waiting for her from family and society. Her father (Vineeth), who once used to be a normal, fun-loving youth, is becoming increasingly conservative under the influence of a local Ustad. He shuns bright clothing and insists that his wife and daughter wear face-covering niqab. The script does imply that such practices are recent imports, as his mother is shown advising him against such tendencies. He is also shown to be opposed to the idea of the daughter going for higher education. The effects of Raziya’s wish in such a household is imaginable. It all held such potential for a taut, emotional ride for the protagonist. Yet, what we have here is a staid, dreary narrative. Even the climax is so tame and uneventful. It would be surprising if this work creates half the ripples that the school drama based on the same story did. S.R. Praveen||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tacky-treatment-lets-down-jetpack-topic/article33701099.ece
30 January 2021||January 30 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Toppled by pandemic||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/toppled-by-pandemic/article33701338.ece
30 January 2021||January 30 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Strengthening bonds||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/strengthening-bonds/article33701116.ece
30 January 2021||January 30 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Annual visit||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/annual-visit/article33701291.ece
30 January 2021||January 30 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Up in arms||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/up-in-arms/article33701154.ece
30 January 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Forcible’ unanimous elections in gram panchayats is unacceptable: SEC||A mobile app that will have the capability to upload voice, video, and text messages and a call centre will be launched by the State Election Commission (SEC) for receiving complaints from the people about the panchayat elections, State Election Commissioner N. Ramesh Kumar has said. Addressing the media here on Friday after holding a review meeting with the district revenue and police officials, Mr. Ramesh Kumar said political parties had represented to Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan apprehending “forcible unanimous decisions” in the gram panchayat elections. “As the State Election Commissioner, I assure you that there will not be any forced unanimous decisions. The revenue and police officials have been asked to constitute shadow teams in the villages to get feedback on engineered, forcible, or rigged unanimous elections, and such ones need to be stopped and those responsible for them need to be grounded,” Mr. Ramesh Kumar said. A level-playing field would be ensured, he said. “The viewpoint that gram panchayats will flourish only if unanimous decisions emerge is wrong. Creating an atmosphere where a certain percentage of gram panchayats must give unanimous decision is not acceptable, and they will not lose anything even if elections are held,” Mr. Ramesh Kumar observed. In a democracy, there could be four divergent viewpoints, but we need to honour each and every one of them, he opined. App to be ready by third phase An agency had come forward to develop the app, which would display a dashboard of the panchayat elections providing all information needed, and this was an effort to make the elections free, fair, and transparent, the SEC said. “All complaints received from any source, including the app, will be taken into consideration and resolved as early as possible,” Mr. Ramesh Kumar said. “The app is still in the evolving stage. It may be fully functional by the time nominations for the third phase begin,” he added. Mr. Ramesh Kumar further said that all COVID-19 protocols should be adhered to during the elections. “The polling time has been extended from 7 a.m. to 1 p.m. earlier to 6.30 a.m. to 3.30 p.m. so that bunching of voters does not happen. Even COVID-19 positive persons can exercise their franchhise by wearing PPE kits,” he said. Anantapur Range DIG Kanti Rana Tata, District Collector Gandham Chandrudu, Superintendent of Police B. Satya Yesu Babu, and Joint Collectors Nishant Kumar and A. Siri were present.  The viewpoint that gram panchayats will flourish only if unanimous decisions emerge is wrong N. Ramesh Kumar State Election Commissioner||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/forcible-unanimous-elections-in-gram-panchayats-is-unacceptable-sec/article33701256.ece
30 January 2021||B. Madhu Gopal,ANDHRA PRADESH||Several doctors vouch for vaccine||Posts on social media on adverse reactions seem to have created a scare among prospective beneficiaries of the COVID-19 vaccination programme, which was started in the country two weeks ago. A section of people, including doctors, are expressing apprehensions, even as many others vouch for its safety. Doctors say there is no cause for worry as mild reactions like rashes, swelling and pain due to the injection are common for any vaccine. However, the death of a couple of health workers, elsewhere in the State after taking the vaccine, is creating apprehension among public. “Our plan is to vaccinate a little over 40,000 beneficiaries in the district in the first phase, which commenced on January 16,” P.V. Sudhakar, COVID-19 Special Officer and Principal of Andhra Medical College, told The Hindu recently. “Only those who have vaccine allergy should avoid it, while all others having allergies like dust and food allergy can take the jab, but the response in such patients will be slow,” he said.  Session sites District Medical & Health Officer P.S. Suryanarayana underlined the need to remove vaccine hesitancy among the public. “In the first phase, only healthcare workers are being vaccinated and 19,000 have taken the vaccine, so far. Barring two cases of anxiety related disorders, no other major issues have been reported from anywhere in the district,” says Dr. Suryanarayana. “There are no major adverse cases, so far, in the State. Our concentration now is on motivation of beneficiaries,” said G. Rambabu, State Nodal Officer for COVID-19. G.V. Narasimha Rao, a retired doctor, residing at Seethammadhara, who was initially apprehensive of taking the injection, registered for the vaccination programme after being convinced by other doctors. “There may be occasional mild reactions and showing it as an excuse to avoid taking the vaccine is not wise,” said G. Hanumantha Rao, an Associate Professor at MIMS, Vizianagaram. “The COVID-19 vaccination drive was launched at our hospital only on January 20. I have got myself vaccinated and some of our professors got the shot. However, a few of our doctors are reluctant,” said G. Raghunadh Babu, Superintendent, Government ENT Hospital. “I had tested positive for COVID-19 in October, 2020, and recovered completely. I was confident of the safety of the vaccine and did not even get a mild reaction after the injection. I will take the second dose after 28 days,” said B. Ramachandra Rao, an Associate Professor at the Government ENT Hospital. Ramesh Kumar, ENT surgeon, and M. Lakshmi Suma, a PG student, said they did not experience any adverse reactions after vaccination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/doctors-vouch-for-safety-of-covid-vaccine/article33701254.ece
30 January 2021||CHINTOOR (EAST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||Six CRPF companies guarding tri-State border to be roped in for local polls||The East Godavari police are all set to rope in the six companies of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) that are guarding the district’s tri-State borders of Telangana, Odisha and the Dandakaranya region of Chhattisgarh to ensure the smooth conduct of elections in the 78 gram panchayats that have been declared as areas affected by Left Wing Extremism (LWE). In an official release, District Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy said that 78 gram panchayats fall in the LWE-affected area while 11 others were “inaccessible.” Of the total 1,103 gram panchayats in the district, only 1,072 will go to the polls. The remaining 31 will not go to the polls as there is a proposal to merge them in urban bodies. Of the 32.54 lakh voters who will exercise their franchise, the number of women voters is 16.33 lakh. “We are prepared to conduct elections in the LWE-affected panchayats with the support of the six CRPF companies that are already on ground to check the LWE activities at the tri-State border. Talks will be held with the CRPF authorities on January 31 to finalise the action plan,” Superintendent of Police Adnan Nayeem Asmi told The Hindu . “Our prime concerns are to ensure transportation of the polling material to certain pockets in the Chintoor Agency and reaching the inaccessible terrains. The existing CRPF force will be enough to conduct the polling in the strategic areas,” he said. ‘The existing environment in the Agency is favourable for the conduct of elections peacefully,” Mr. Nayeem Asmi said. Major challenge “Absence of communication system in some pockets in the Agency remains a major challenge for the conduct of election through the ballot box method,” he added. As many as 272 panchayats have been declared hypersensitive and 283 as sensitive. As many as 11,872 ballot boxes are required for the elections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/six-crpf-companies-guarding-tri-state-border-to-be-roped-in-for-local-polls/article33701266.ece
30 January 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Bachelor’s Group’ keeps mango growers on edge||A three-member herd of wild elephants, known in local circles as the Bachelor’s Group, is giving sleepless nights to forest officials and farmers for the past one month ever since it strayed into the plains of Nagari Assembly constituency. Forest officials have been trying unsuccessfully to drive the elephants back into their habitat near V. Kota-Pernampattu (T.N.) border, some 150 km away. During the past one month, the herd had mostly confined itself to the hillocks of Karvetinagaram range between Puttur and Vadamalapeta. Though their present location is 30 km from the Seshachalam hills on the eastern side, all efforts to drive them in the direction of Tamil Nadu did not yield fruit. Farmers of Vadamalapeta, Puttur and Ramachandrapuram mandals have requested the forest officials to initiate steps to protect their crops from the jumbos. Last week, the elephants were seen moving towards Karvetinagaram, showing signs of retreating along the path through which they had entered the Nagari plains. However, in an apparent change of plans, they once again advanced back to the same spot near the Gulluru water body near Vadamalapeta. Forest Range Officer (Karveti Nagaram) Sivanna said that handling of a three-member herd is tricky. “Had it been a lone elephant, we could have taken some steps to drive it towards its original habitat near Tamil Nadu, or into the Seshachalam hills,” he said. The FRO said that since the beginning of January, the jumbo trio had mostly limited their movements to the forested hills and open glades inside. “They are very rarely approaching the fields at dawn or dusk, but there are no reports of major crop losses but for stray incidents. Though the presence of elephants is altogether a new development to the Nagari plains, the forest department is fully geared up to tackle them if they cross into human habitations. At present, the forest belt of Karveti Nagaram range is having sufficient fodder and water for the elephants,” Mr. Sivanna said. The official said that this situation could continue for the next couple of months, but not beyond that. “The forest stretch where the elephants are currently camping is surrounded by mango gardens in a vast area, covering Karveti Nagaram, Puttur, Nagari, Vadamalapeta, Ramachandrapuram and Chandragiri mandals. During the mango season, the wild elephants are generally known for raiding the orchids. In view of this, we are hopeful of forming an action plan to address the jumbo problem,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bachelors-group-keeps-mango-growers-on-edge/article33701273.ece
30 January 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Will continue to expose SEC’s biased functioning’||State Election Commissioner N. Ramesh Kumar is like a passing cloud, whose stint will end in two months, but the government will be at the helm for a longer period, Adviser (Public Affairs) to the government Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy has said. “The SEC has been going overboard in passing comments against the government and our leaders, ignoring the flaws of the Opposition. We will continue to expose his biased functioning. I have held various positions in the party. The SEC need not judge as to who should speak what in our party while totally ignoring the release of manifesto by TDP president N. Chandrababu Naidu for the panchayat polls that are apolitical and are not conducted on party symbols,” Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy said while addressing the media at the party central office at Tadepalli on Friday. ‘Impatient, vindictive’ “The SEC seems to be working as a political activist under the direction of Mr. Naidu. He has been stepping out of his purview and acting impatiently. Those in that post will have to be mature enough, be responsible, and work for the smooth conduct of polls,” Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy said. “The SEC is being vindictive and is misusing his constitutional powers. While he has to perform his duties as a referee, he has been biased towards a single party. He is enforcing his personal agenda,” Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy alleged. Principal Secretary (Panchayat Raj) Gopal Krishna Dwivedi was a victim of the SEC’s “impatience and anger,” Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy said. Everyone had seen the way Mr. Naidu had treated Mr. Dwivedi when he was the Chief Electoral Officer in 2019, he said. “Mr. Naidu had rushed to the CEO office and terrorised him. The CEO could have registered a case against him, but he had maintained restraint,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/will-continue-to-expose-secs-biased-functioning/article33701264.ece
30 January 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||TVS launches new model||Pioneer TVS managing director Chukapalli Ramesh on Friday launched TVS XL winner moped in the market. Pioneer TVS, which has been operating in Guntur for 40 years, unveiled the new TVS Excel Winner moped. CEO Premchand said that the TVS XL Winner moped will have a front hydraulic suspension, mobile charging facility, premium dual tone seats and LED DRL. CEO Nimmagadda Premchand, TVS area sales manager Karthik and territory sales manager Syed were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tvs-launches-new-model/article33700718.ece
30 January 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Complete all irrigation projects in time, Jagan tells officials||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Friday held a detailed review of all the priority irrigation projects — Polavaram, Nellore Barrage, Sangam Barrage, Veligonda, Vamsadhara — with Irrigation Minister and senior Irrigation officials, and directed them to complete all the projects in time. The officials told Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy that the civil works pertaining to the Nellore Barrage were being completed on time and gates would be installed by March 31. “The project can be launched in April,” they said. Regarding the Sangam Barrage works, the officials said that civil major works had been completed and material pertaining to the gates had reached the project site and works would be completed by the end of March. The officials further said there were issues such as loose soil of the Out Tunnel of the Vamsadhara project and that 14,000 cusecs of water had been drained out so far. In another tunnel, there was loose soil of up to 134 metres, they said. “The Veligonda project is also on the fast track with works getting completed for the Tunnel I head regulator. The works relating to Tunnel II will begin in April and completed in three months. Works relating to Tunnel I will be completed by March and that of Tunnel II by August,” they said. The Chief Minister was also briefed about the Polavaram project. Irrigation engineers said that spillway works were going on at a fast pace and works relating to fixing of radial gates and approach channel would be completed by April. A special officer would be appointed to facilitate approvals, they said. The works pertaining to reach one of the upper coffer dam would be completed by the end of March, reach two by the end of April and the third reach by end of May. The works relating to coffer dam would be completed by the time monsoon sets in, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/complete-all-irrigation-projects-in-time-jagan-tells-officials/article33701261.ece
30 January 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Praveen Prakash clarifies to Chief Secretary on SEC charges||Principal Secretary to Chief Minister and Principal Secretary, Government (Political) and GAD, Praveen Prakash, has in a letter clarified to Chief Secretary Aditya Nath Das that he has never violated the orders of State Election Commissioner. Clarifying on the issue related to the “failure” to respond to the letter dated January 25, Mr. Prakash said in the letter that the Chief Secretary was the head of the GAD and he reported to him. He said that all forms of communications should be addressed to the Chief Secretary. “I am still not able to get an answer to myself that what is the inaction from my side in this regard. Every IAS officer serving as well as retired knows that as far as AIS officer’s issues are concerned, the decision never ends at the Principal Secretary (Political) level. He is just a supporting officer to the Chief Secretary like five other Principal Secretaries in the GAD. So, holding me accountable for the point above raised is in what way justifiable? Is it fair? Is it ethical?” Mr. Prakash questioned. Regarding the issue of alleged “influencing Collectors, SPs and other officers” suggesting them to refrain from attending SEC video-conference on January 23, Mr. Prakash said status quo was maintained in the intervening period between the judgments of the Division Bench and the Supreme Court. “The decision to maintain status quo was taken to avoid confusion in the field about the gram panchayat elections. The decision was communicated to the SEC in writing and the same was known to officers in the field too. That was the sole reason for officers not attending the video-conference,” he said. “Hence, it is beyond my comprehension that how Mr. Ramesh Kumar can assume that I am capable of intimidating the officers into submission, which is nothing but a failure to trust this truly blessed cadre,” said Mr. Prakash.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/praveen-prakash-clarifies-to-chief-secretary-on-sec-charges/article33701262.ece
30 January 2021||Harish Gilai,ANDHRA PRADESH||Renovation works of VUDA park nearing completion, says official||Renovation works for the NTR VMRDA Park, known as VUDA park, at Beach Road, are put on fast-track since the last couple of months and are nearing completion. Though the park comes under the supervision of Visakhapatnam Metropolitan region Development Authority (VMRDA), the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) officials are carrying out the development project as part of the Smart City initiative and aim to complete it by the next one month. Spread over in 33 acres, the VMRDA park is being developed in three zones creating recreational facilities for people of all the age groups, including walkers, children, elderly persons, sports enthusiasts and others. Explaining some of the highlights of the project, GVMC Chief Engineer M. Venkateswara Rao said that nature trail for walkers and BMX cycling track for enthusiasts are being set up. He said that an exclusive multi-purpose lawn is being developed with yoga circle for the yoga enthusiasts. The park would have exclusive sports courts for games like badminton, tennis, basketball and skating are being set up, he said. The project also includes children’s play arena with various play equipment and outdoor gym area with various types of equipment for the public. The boating facility is completely renovated, while food courts are also being set up. Seating arrangement, walking tracks and lighting facilities are also renovated. Artefact of fishing boat, Lord Buddha view point and new mural paintings of tribal folk on the walls are expected to be not just good attractions but also selfie points for the tourists. Keeping in view of nature lovers, the contractors were also instructed to focus on greenery. Landscaping is being done with herbal plants, shady trees and a wide variety of flower plants on the premises of the park. Meanwhile, in view of increasing traffic issues, parking facility for two-wheelers and four-wheelers has been enhanced. “The works are being taken up as part of smart city project at a cost of about Rs. 33.50 crore. We are planning to roll up the works by the end of February,” said Mr. Venkateswara Rao. The park located just nearby beach at a prime location is one of the oldest and biggest ones in the city. It attracts a large number of tourists for its facilities like lake boating, skating and walking paths.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/renovation-works-of-vuda-park-nearing-completion-says-official/article33701388.ece
30 January 2021||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vemana university gearing up for NAAC accreditation||Yogi Vemana University is gearing up for the forthcoming visit of a peer team from the National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC). Vice-Chancellor M. Surya Kalavathi, who completed her first year in office, addressed reporters here on Friday along with Registrar D. Vijaya Raghava Prasad. She announced that the varsity had taken up an academic, financial and green audit ahead of the NAAC visit. “The Internal Quality Assurance Cell (IQAC) has been strengthened and we are hoping for a good rank this time,” she said. On the augmentation of infrastructure and laboratories, she said the Gurukulam building handed over to the university by the State government would be used for new facilities. While the English language laboratory has been renovated, the MBA and M.Com labs would be readied shortly. Prof. Kalavathi said the management has laid special focus on developing the university’s three major units, namely YVU campus college, YSR Engineering College campus and the C.P. Brown library and Language Research Centre. On the impact of the pandemic, she said that the varsity was able to keep pace on the academic and research fronts, in spite of the hiccups posed by the lockdown. The varsity made a record of sorts by announcing the results of the Post Graduate Common Entrance Test (YVUPGCET) on the very last date of the examinations. “The counselling process is on and classes for the new batch will commence next month,” she added. Registrar Prof. Prasad said the e-office and learning management system in academics had been successfully implemented and the varsity had bagged three quality awards from Indian Standards Organisation (ISO) last year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/yvu-gearing-up-for-naac-accreditation/article33701252.ece
30 January 2021||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tight security in Kadapa for nomination phase||The police department has made tight security arrangements of filing of nominations for the first phase of panchayat elections began in the district on Friday. Flying squads, static surveillance teams have been formed to ensure strict vigil. Superintendent of Police K.K.N. Anburajan on Friday inspected the village secretariat building at Nandyalampet in Mydukur mandal, which has been modified as the nomination cluster ahead of the polls. Nine Deputy Superintendents, 16 Inspectors and 25 Sub-Inspectors had been drafted for duty for the nomination phase, while 25 policemen would stand guard at every nomination cluster. Every mandal would be supervised by an official in the cadre of Deputy Superintendent of Police, who would offer instructions to route mobiles, striking force, special striking force personnel. “Barricades will be erected around and no vehicle will be allowed within a radius of 100 metres from the nomination clusters,”Mr. Anburajan instructed. Special teams had been formed immediately after the code came into effect, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tight-security-in-kadapa-as-nomination-process-begins/article33701253.ece
30 January 2021||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Last day for admissions||Dr. YSR Architecture and Fine Arts University, Kadapa, has announced January 30 the last date for receiving applications for admission into its various courses. The university will conduct common entrance test for admission into its Bachelor of Fine Arts (BFA) course in Applied arts, animation, painting, sculpture, photography, art and Bachelor of Design (interior design) courses, for which the last date has been fixed as January 30 (without fine) and February 2 (with fine). Candidates with a pass in Intermediate can apply, said coordinator K. Mrutyunjaya Rao. Details can be had at https://sche.ap.gov.in/ADCET or www.ysrafu.ac.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/last-date-today/article33701250.ece
30 January 2021||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Influencing voters to opt for unanimous election will be viewed seriously’||Giving undue publicity to the financial incentive for gram panchayats that elect their sarpanches unanimously will be viewed as an activity negative to the democratic spirit of elections, and such “forced unanimous” decisions will be stopped at any cost, State Election Commissioner N. Ramesh Kumar has asserted. Addressing the media here on Friday night, Mr. Ramesh Kumar said that those trying to influence the voters by any means to go for unanimous elections would be put under house arrest to ensure free and fair casting of votes. Mr. Ramesh Kumar said that in the 2006 elections, there were 18% cases of unanimous elections in Kurnool district, and that had come down to 14% in 2013, mainly due to the voters being better informed and democratic values getting imbibed. “But if someone tries to give advertisements to propagate ‘unanimous election’ as though it is the panacea for development of gram panchayats, it will be viewed seriously and summarily stopped,” he warned. “The Kurnool electors are quite matured. They had came out to vote in highest numbers - 88% in 2013 elections. I hope, in the current elections, despite the COVID-19 pandemic disturbing the people health-wise, they will come out in large numbers and vote,” Mr. Ramesh Kumar said. Strict vigil Camera teams would follow people coming for canvassing in the villages and a shadow team would keep an eye on their activity, he added. Kerala, Karnataka, and Rajasthan held panchayat elections, and no large-scale unanimous elections were witnessed there, and none campaigned / publicised this aspect, the SEC observed. “Unanimous elections are a natural process in a few places where people of eminence or popular in a village are urged by all local residents to unanimously get elected for development of their panchayat. But no financial lure or criminal force should be used. Superintendent of Police Fakkeerappa Kaginelli and District Collector G. Veerapandian have made sufficient arrangements to check such instances,” he said. The SEC was all praise for all those involved in controlling COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/influencing-voters-to-opt-for-unanimous-election-will-be-viewed-seriously/article33701259.ece
30 January 2021||NANDIGAMA (KRISHNA DT),ANDHRA PRADESH||Police officials visit sensitive villages||Superintendent of Police (SP) M. Ravindranath Babu and Additional SP Vakul Jindal on Friday visited the sensitive and hyper-sensitive villages in Krishna district in view of the gram panchayat elections. The SP visited the nomination centres and enquired about the process at Kanchikacherla, Jaggaiahpet and Nandigama areas. Mr. Ravindranath Babu interacted with the villagers and enquired the Deputy Superintendents of Police (DSPs), Circle Inspectors (CIs), SIs and head constables about the trouble mongers in villages. Mr. Jindal held meetings with the villagers of Mylavaram, Pondugula and other areas and directed Nuzvid DSP B. Srinivasulu to conduct meetings with the village and community elders for smooth conduct of the elections. He visited the nomination centres and asked the staff whether they have any problems. The SP directed the officials to step up vigil on the border checkposts on AP-Telangana States. Nandigama DSP G. Nageswar Reddy, CIs Kanaka Rao and P. Srinu other officers accompanied the SP and the ASP. Liquor bottles seized The Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) officials and the Mylavaram police seized 1,920 liquor bottles, being smuggled from Telangana State, at Ananthavaram checkpost. The value of the seized stocks was Rs. 2.3 lakh, the SP said. The ASP said the arrested accused K. Naresh, N. Yesu and G. Saibabu were smuggling the liquor from Gatla Gouravaram village in Telangana State for use during the panchayat elections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-officials-visit-sensitive-villages/article33700731.ece
30 January 2021||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||No mobiles in polling stations, says Collector||Srikakulam District Collector J. Nivas has said that mobile phones will not be allowed into polling stations during the panchayat elections. The Collector on Friday directed the polling staff to give wide publicity about this since everyone was carrying mobile phones in villages too. Conducting a training programme for the polling staff, he said only returning officer would be allowed to carry a mobile phone as he will have to contact officials of the Election Commission and district administration. He suggested that polling staff should be acquainted with rules and regulations during training programmes itself since errors in the election process would be viewed seriously.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/no-mobiles-in-polling-stations-says-collector/article33700721.ece
30 January 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD to bear additional cost of Kanipakam chariot||The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) has come forward to bear the additional cost involved in the making of a golden chariot for the Sri Varasiddhi Vinayaka Swamy temple in Kanipakam, which is expected to run into several crores. It was in 2008 that the Kanipakam Devasthanam decided to get a golden chariot readied with the help of TTD and had deposited Rs. 1 crore into the latter’s account in February 2010 and deposited another Rs. 5 crore in October 2019.  Though it was decided that the gold would be procured from MMTC, Hyderabad, the TTD later decided to use its own gold. Accordingly, the government passed a G.O. on February 27, 2020 permitting the TTD to draw the required gold from its treasury. Kanipakkam authorities requested the TTD to take into account gold rates prevailing on February 15, 2010 and October 10, 2019 on which dates the money was deposited into the TTD’s account. The TTD board in a meeting last November agreed to consider the gold rates as per the Chennai bullion market on the respective dates that the payments were made.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ttd-to-bear-additional-cost-of-kanipakam-chariot/article33701274.ece
30 January 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sri Padmavathi Nilayam withdraws COVID service||Sri Padmavathi Nilayam, which was turned into a COVID Care Centre to house patients when cases were surging and many hospitals were getting overwhelmed, has withdrawn from offering the services, announced Tirupati Urban Development Authority (TUDA) officially on Friday. The massive building complex abutting the Chennai highway was finally taken over by TUDA when COVID struck. With 934 beds, the centre admitted 14,389 patients--13,988 of them from Chittoor district alone-- referred home isolation to 2,537 and performed lab investigations on 36,752 persons during the period. Apart from TUDA, SETVEN and the District Sports Authority, departments like Medical and Health, Cooperatives, Revenue, Education, Tourism and Panchayat Raj chipped in to ensure round-the-clock services to the patients. TUDA Chairman Chevireddy Bhaskar Reddy recalled the “darker initial days” of March, when doctors ran from pillar to post for ventilators, and administrators scrambling to procure masks and sanitisers. Health staff felicitated “It was all chaos when the pandemic struck, but our priority was to fill confidence in the patients,” said Dr. Reddy, who had donned the PPE suit to personally check on the critically-ill persons in the State COVID Hospital at SVIMS. He lauded the role of TTD in extending finance for infrastructure and the policemen for maintaining the guard during the lockdown. Along with TUDA Vice-Chairman S. Harikrishna and Secretary S. Lakshmi, he felicitated frontline warriors for rendering yeoman services during the pandemic. SVIMS Director B. Vengamma, Medical Superintendent Ram, Venkatrami Reddy (surgical gastroenterology), Alok Sachan (endocrinology), Alladi Mohan (medicine), Usha Kalawat (virology lab), SVMC Principal Jaya Bhaskar, Ruia Superintendent M. Bharathi, Chittoor DM&HO S. Penchalaiah and DCHS P. Saralamma were among those honoured.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sri-padmavathi-nilayam-withdraws-covid-service/article33701276.ece
30 January 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Conclave held on draft labour laws||The new Labour Law Codes introduced by the Central government in September 2020 are aimed at reducing hassles for stakeholders, explained B. Udayalaxmi, Principal Secretary (Labour, Employment, Training and Factories). She was participating in a conclave on ‘Draft labour laws’ held at Sri City here on Friday, when she interacted with senior Human Resources Managers of industrial units. The new codes contain several game-changing provisions that regulate wages, industrial relations, social security and occupational safety, health and working conditions, she said. ‘Security net widened’ Ms. Udayalaxmi mentioned that the social security net of Employees State Insurance Corporation (ESIC) and Employees Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) had been widened to cover all workers, including the self-employed sector. Director of Factories D. Chandrasekhara Varma and Deputy Chief Inspector of Factories (Chittoor district) M.V. Sivakumar Reddy took part.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/conclave-held-on-draft-labour-laws/article33701249.ece
30 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ensure anganwadi centres are kept clean and tidy: official||Women Development and Child Welfare (WD&CW) Director Kritika Shukla has directed officials and staff of the department to visit the anganwadi centres, which are being opened from February 1, and take up sanitation drive on the school premises. Now, known as pre-schools, the centres were closed for the last ten months due to COVID-19, and the government gave instructions to reopen them from February 1. In the wake of an incident in an anganwadi centre in West Godavari district where a snake was sighted, alert was sounded in the State, the Director said. Ms. Shukla instructed the WD&CW Project Directors, Child Development Project Officers (CDPOs), anganwadi supervisors and women protection Secretaries to inspect the centres. “In all, thee are 55,607 anganwadi centres in the State. Many are running in government buildings and some are functioning in private leased buildings,” the Director told The Hindu on Friday.  Safety We are taking steps to provide foolproof safety for the children,she said. With the anganwadi staff finding snakes coming into the centre at Bangarucheruvu Gattu in Palakol town in West Godavari district a couple of days ago, they were asked to clean the classrooms and the premises in all anganwadis before their opening. “Instructions have been given to clear bushes on the premises, sanitise the classrooms and kitchen and check whether there are any rats, lizards, cockroaches and other insects in the rooms, which are shut. The CDPOs have been asked to check electric wiring and provide necessary electrification in the schools,” Ms. Shukla said. The PDs should check the structural soundness (condition) of the schools. Toilets should be cleaned and drinking water and other facilities be provided in all anganwadi centres, she said. “As the anganwadi staff were distributing rice, red gram dal, eggs, balamrutam, milk, groundnut chikkis, ragi flour, jaggery, oil, dry dates and other material to the beneficiaries under Take Home Ration (THR) under YSR Sampoorna Plus programme in the anganwadi centres, we asked the teachers, ayahs and staff to remove the stocks and clean the rooms,” the Director said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ensure-anganwadi-centres-are-kept-clean-and-tidy-official/article33700729.ece
30 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||APERC constitutes panel on short-term power procurement||The AP Electricity Regulatory Commission (APERC) has constituted an expert committee to study and prepare a report on the methodology to be followed for approval/ratification of short-term power procurement so that the overall power purchase costs are reduced to the extent possible and the consumers derived the benefit from it in the form of reasonable tariffs and at the same time the interests of discoms are protected. APERC secretary C. Ramakrishna stated in a press release that the committee, which consists of Usha Ramachandra, Professor & Director of the Centre for Energy Studies, Administrative Staff College of India, Hyderabad, N. Sree Kumar from Prayas Energy Group and M. Sivarami Reddy, retired chief engineer of APSEB, will submit their report in a month. It was further said that power purchase cost constitutes about 80% of the annual revenue requirement of the discoms and any increase thereof adversely affects the electricity tariffs levied on the consumers. Demand-supply gap A part of the power purchase costs is accounted by the short-term procurement of power from the market necessitated to bridge the demand-supply gap. Objections are being raised time and again on the need to procure short-term power when the State is in an energy surplus situation. Mr. Ramakrishna said: “Though it is true that the State is in an energy surplus situation on an annual basis, the unpredictable and intermittent nature of generation from the renewable sources is resulting in a gap between demand and supply during certain time blocks or seasons forcing the discoms to go for short-term procurement to bridge the gap.” The APERC, therefore, constituted the above committee to suggest ways to keep the short-term power purchase costs in manageable limits in order to bring down the overall costs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/aperc-constitutes-expert-panel-on-short-term-power-procurement/article33700724.ece
30 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP State unit invites Shah, Yogi for ‘rath yatra’||The BJP seems to have evolved a strategy to make inroads and catapult itself as a force to reckon with in the State. What lends credence is the saffron party’s plan to rope in Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath and Union Home Minister Amit Shah to participate in the ‘Devalaya Parirakshana Yatra’ it proposes to take out from Kapilateertham in Tirupati to Ramateertham in Vizianagaram district from February 4 to 9. Tirupati byelection Incidentally, the yatra being proposed in protest against the series of attacks on temples in the State and the government’s alleged negligence to contain them, comes ahead of the byelection to the Tirupati Lok Sabha constituency. According to a senior leader, the BJP State leadership has already placed its request, or invitation, before the Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister seeking his participation in the ‘rath yatra’ on the inaugural day. Similarly, Mr. Amit Shah has been requested to join the yatra at Ramateertham on February 9. As per the route plan, the ‘rath yatra’ covers a distance of 1,271.3 km touching all the temples that have been attacked in the recent past in the State. Meanwhile, a BJP delegation led by its State general secretary S. Vishnuvardhan Reddy has submitted a memorandum to the police seeking permission for the yatra. “We hope the police will accord us permission. The party will, however, go ahead with the yatra even if permission is denied,” says a senior leader.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bjp-state-unit-invites-shah-yogi-for-rath-yatra/article33701381.ece
30 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||High Court sets aside removal of Ashok as chairman of three temple boards||The Andhra Pradesh High Court has set aside the removal of senior TDP leader P. Ashok Gajapathi Raju from the post of chairman / Founder Family Member (FFM) of the trust boards of three temples, including Sri Rama Swamy Devasthanam at Ramateertham in Vizianagaram district. Mr. Raju was expelled from the posts for allegedly failing to take steps that could have prevented the destruction of the idol of Rama at the Ramateertham temple. The government had issued a memo in the first week of January removing Mr. Raju from the posts for failing to discharge his legitimate duties and for not addressing issues related to safety of the temples. In his petition, Mr. Raju argued that he was removed from the post of FFM / trust board chairman of Ramateertham temple, Sri Pyditalli Ammavari Devasthanam in Vizianagaram and Sri Mandeswara Swamy temple in East Godavari through a memo (instead of G.O.) in blatant violation of Section 28 (2) of AP Charitable and Hindu Religious Institutions and Endowments Act, 1987. The court apparently agreed with his contention that the Commissioner of Endowments and the Executive Officers were the custodians of the temples as per Section 29 of the Act and not the chairpersons / FFMs. Mr. Raju questioned how could he be removed from the posts of three temples for “an act at one temple.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/high-court-sets-aside-removal-of-ashok-as-chairman-of-three-temple-boards/article33701269.ece
30 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||125 new infections registered in State||There were no COVID-19 related deaths for the second consecutive day in the State. In the 24 hours ending Friday morning, 125 new infections were reported. While the toll remained at 7,152 (death rate of 0.81%), the tally increased to 8,87,591. Recovery rate The recovery rate was put at 99.05%. The total recoveries reached 8,79,131 with 175 patients recovering during the period. The number of patients undergoing treatment was put at 1,308. The overall positivity rate of the 1.305-crore samples tested so far slightly came down to 6.80% and that of 42,809 tests conducted in the last one day was 0.29%. Krishna again topped other districts with the highest single-day tally of 26 new infections. It was followed by Guntur and Visakhapatnam, which reported 19 new cases each. The tally of other districts was as follows: East Godavari (14), Chittoor (13), West Godavari (9), Nellore (8), Anantapur and Srikakulam (five each), Kurnool (3), VIziangaram (2), and Kadapa and Prakasam (one each). The overall district-wise tallies were as follows: East Godavari (1,24,239), West Godavari (94,219), Chittoor (87,006), Guntur (75,474), Anantapur (67,638), Nellore (62,312), Prakasam (62,173), Kurnool (60,794), Visakhapatnam (59,733), Kadapa (55,246), Krishna (48,611),Srikakulam (46,119) and Vizianagaram (41,132).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/125-new-infections-registered-in-state/article33701258.ece
30 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP decries raw deal to sanitary staff||The Telugu Desam Party (TDP) has demanded that the State government immediately pay the salaries and arrears along with interest to the sanitary workers who risked their lives to save the lives of the people at the height of the coronavirus pandemic. Pay compensation In a letter to the Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Friday, Repalle MLA Anagani Satya Prasad stressed the need to recognise the services rendered by the sanitary workers on a par with the other frontline warriors. The promised Rs. 50 lakh compensation should be paid to the families of the sanitary workers who died while working during the pandemic period, he said. Mr. Satya Prasad criticised the government for not taking back the 20% sanitary staff who were removed from work after the COVID-19 infection rate came down. All these workers were taken to save the public lives when infections peaked and they had rendered tireless services. The families were now struggling to lead their lives in the absence of a job and were stuck in debts. They should be taken back into work and given job security, Mr. Satya Prasad said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-decries-raw-deal-to-sanitary-staff/article33700722.ece
30 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Convocation of SPAV today||The School of Planning and Architecture, Vijayawada (SPAV), will hold its fifth convocation ceremony in virtual mode on Saturday. As many as 160 graduates, comprising the students who completed their Bachelors in Architecture and Planning, Masters in Urban and Regional Planning, Environmental Planning, Sustainable Architecture and Landscape Architecture and Ph.D scholars will receive their degrees. Chief guest Mumbai-based eminent architect Alpa Sheth will be chief guest, while Chairperson of the Board of Governors of SPA, Vijayawada, and renowned architect Brinda Somaya from Mumbai will preside over the programme. Director, SPAV, Minakshi Jain, will present a detailed institute report on the key achievements in last one year. Various other dignitaries from All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE), University Grants Commission (UGC), Institute of Town Planners India and other institutes will attend the online programme, according to a press note.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/convocation-of-spav-today/article33700723.ece
30 January 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||High alert in State following Delhi blast||High alert has been sounded in the State, particularly at all security zones, following the IED blast near the Israeli Embassy in New Delhi on Friday. Security has been stepped up at all airports and ports and other highly secured places in wake of the blast. Police have been asked to be alert along the sea coast. The marine and the local police have been directed to intensify patrolling along the coast. “We instructed the officers to take up checking in all bus and railway stations and other public places. The public are requested to alert the police, if they found movement of strangers or any suspected baggage or parcel,” a police officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/high-alert-in-state-following-delhi-blast/article33701280.ece
30 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Deodhar’s swipe at Jagan, Naidu||BJP Andhra Pradesh affairs co-in-charge Sunil Deodhar tweeted on Friday that the “acting of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy and his predecessor N. Chandrababu Naidu as Hindutvaites” is fake and in itself a victory of his party. “These dramas did not help Rahul Gandhi in 2019 and Telangana Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao in the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation elections. The nation knows the distinction between a crow and a nightingale,” the BJP leader observed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/deodhars-swipe-at-jagan-naidu/article33701267.ece
30 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kanna Babu appointed SEC Secretary||The government transferred and posted K. Kanna Babu, Special Commissioner of Disaster Management (DM) and ex-officio Additional Secretary of revenue (DM) as the Secretary of the State Election Commission. He is kept in full additional charge of the posts of Special Commissioner and ex-officio Additional Secretary of revenue (DM), Managing Director of AP State Disaster Management Authority and the Commissioner of Fisheries until further orders, according to a G.O. issued by the Chief Secretary Aditya Nath Das.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kanna-babu-appointed-sec-secretary/article33701270.ece
30 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ensure free and fair panchayat polls, Collector tells officials||District Collector V. Vinay Chand has underlined the importance of the nodal officers in ensuring free and fair polls in the ensuing panchayat elections, which will be held in four phases in the district. At a review meeting here on Friday, the Collector directed them to make foolproof arrangements for the smooth conduct of the polls. He spoke on the appointment of route officers, zonal officers, preparation of route maps, arrangement of vehicles, videography, postal ballot, ballot papers, ballot boxes, transport of polling staff. He said that Constituency and Mandal Special Officers for conduct of the polls have been appointed. He said that 18 teams have been formed under the supervision of Joint Collectors for coordination with the District Collector. The Nodal Officers should not leave the headquarters. The works pertaining to conduct of the elections should be held at the MPDO offices at the mandal headquarters. The training classes for the staff should also be held at these offices. Arrangements should be made to provide accommodation and working meals for the polling staff. There are 969 village panchayats in four revenue divisions in the district. Rekhavanipalem panchayat of Bheemunipatnam mandal has been merged in Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation(GVMC) and hence polls will not be held for it. The notification has been released for the polls in 340 of the 344 panchayats in Anakapalle Division. Nominations can be filed till January 31 (till 5 p.m.); scrutiny will be done on February 1; appeals for reject applications February 2; disposal of appeals by Appellate authority February 3; last date for withdrawal of nomination February 4 (after 3 p.m.). Polling will be held from 6.30 a.m. to 3.30 p.m. and counting of votes will be done from 4 p.m. on February 9. Results would be declared on completion of the counting process.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ensure-free-and-fair-panchayat-polls-collector-tells-officials/article33701386.ece
30 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||ACB opens three bank lockers of AE, ‘unearths’ more assets||A day after unearthing illegal assets worth Rs. 3.88 crore from Assistant Engineer of APEPDCL, Kommadi Sub Station, M Nageswara Rao, officials from Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) opened three bank lockers of the official and detected about 1.7 kg gold ornaments, Rs. 4.53 lakh cash and several documents related to fixed deposits worth around Rs. 41 lakh here on Friday. With the latest seizures, the total net worth of his assets is said to be about Rs. 4.6 crore, market value for which is estimated to be more than Rs. 30 crore. According to the ACB officials, all the gold, cash and fixed deposits recovered on Friday were found in the name of the family members of the accused. The ACB officials will open one more bank locker in Hyderabad on Saturday, it was learn. The ACB officials conducted raids on houses and properties of Nageswara Rao on Thursday. On the first day, the officials reportedly unearthed illegal assets with a book value of Rs. 3.88 crore and their market value is estimated to be Rs. 20 crore. The assets include two houses, two flats, two vehicles and FDRs. The ACB officials registered a case against the officer and produced him before before the ACB court in Visakhapatnam here on Friday. The court has sent him in remand till February 12.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/acb-opens-three-bank-lockers-of-ae-unearths-more-assets/article33701378.ece
30 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||ECoR General Manager conducts inspection||General Manager of East Coast Railway (E Co R) Vidya Bhushan conducted window trailing inspection from Visakhapatnam to Borraguhalu (Borra caves) to review various safety works and track maintenance on Friday. He was accompanied by Divisional Railway Manager Chetan Kumar Shrivastava, Principal Chief Operations Manager Pramod Kumar Jena, Principal Chief Engineer N.S. Ukey, Principal Chief Mechanical Engineer Gautam Dutta, ADRM (infra) Akshay Saxena and officers from the division. He inspected various developmental activities carried out in the section and at Borraguhalu station. He inaugurated the augmentation works for drinking water supply to Chimidipalli from Borraguhalu. Later, the General Manager went to Araku and commissioned the renovated officers rest house at Araku railway station. He appreciated the divisional officials for their commitment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ecor-general-manager-conducts-inspection/article33701309.ece
30 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Solve layout problems, plot owners urge VMRDA||The Lakeview VUDA Layout Plot Owners Association(LVLPOA) at its recent general body meeting discussed the problems pertaining to the long-neglected layout, which was developed by VUDA at Madhurawada. Though the plots were auctioned by VUDA to the public way back in 2002, it had failed to implement a number of commitments made, at the time of plot allotment. The unfulfilled commitments include provision of perimeter wall, power supply lines, streetlights, water supply, restoration of overhead water tank, underground sewage, community shops, commercial housing and children’s park. The layout is beset with problems like open defecation, unauthorised dumping of garbage and debris. The Suddagedda lake, which stands out as the main attraction of the layout, is being polluted , the plot owners said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/solve-layout-problems-plot-owners-urge-vmrda/article33701307.ece
30 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Fixed dentures in one hour||A 73-year-old man, who had lost all his teeth and was wearing removable dentures, visited a dental clinic in the city recently and walked out in less than an hour, smiling broadly with a full set of fixed dentures. The implant surgery was shown live to reporters waiting in another room on CCTV. After half an hour, A.V. Rao, the senior citizen, walked up to the waiting reporters to share his joy. The live surgery was done by Dr. Kandarpa S. Srinivas, laser dental surgeon and dental implantologist, at Srinivas Complete Dental Care at Seethammadhara on Thursday. “I am doing a project in Uzbekistan due to which I have to go there frequently. Dental procedures require long sittings. A dental surgeon in Mumbai told me of the advances in dentistry, which make it possible to undergo dental procedures for fixed dentures and walk out of hospital on the same day,” recalled Mr. Rao. Ill-fitting and uncomfortable dentures were causing an embarrasment to Mr. Rao while meeting clients as part of his international consultancy project. “I inquired about the advances in dentistry in Hyderabad and finally came to Dr. Srinivas. He did a quick research on the latest advances in dental implants and zeroed in on this procedure,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/fixed-dentures-in-one-hour/article33700716.ece
30 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Yoga classes for weight reduction from Feb. 1||The Department of Yoga and Consciousness (Yoga Village), Andhra University, would conduct offline and power yoga classes for weight reduction from February 1. The timings for the classes are from 4 p.m. to 5 p.m. and 5 p.m. to 6 p.m, said Head of the Department K. Ramesh Babu. He said that interested can contact 9398019922 for more details.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/yoga-classes-from-feb-1/article33701310.ece
30 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Special Enforcement Bureau sets up control room||Ahead of Panchayat elections, a 24/7 control room has been set up by Visakhapatnam City Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) under the directions of Police Commissioner Manish Kumar Sinha. The SEB officials said that people can send their complaints and even pass information by phone/SMS/ WhatsApp to a dedicated number 9440904317 during the panchayat elections in the city, about any illegal activity regarding liquor, ID arrack, sand, gaming and NDPS activities. Immediate action will be taken on the information received and the details of those who have provided the information will be kept confidential, the officials said. According to the instructions of Commissioner, Special Enforcement Bureau, Vineet Brijlal, an action plan in has been formulated by Additional DCP (SEB) V. Ajitha and Assistant Commissioner SEB M. Bhaskar Rao. The instructions have been conveyed to all the SEB personnel in the city during the coordination meeting. “The SEB shall work in coordination with the Police Department ,” said Ms. Ajitha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/special-enforcement-bureau-sets-up-control-room/article33701377.ece
30 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||District reports 19 new infections||The district reported 19 new COVID-19 infections in the last 24 hours taking the tally to 60,245, as on Friday. Accoding to the bulletin, no deaths were reported and 20 persons, who were undergoing treatment for the coronavirus, recovered in the last one day. The death toll stands at 533. The number of active cases and recoveries stands at 127 and 59,585 respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/district-reports-19-new-infections/article33701390.ece
30 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Veturi award presented to Bhuvana Chandra||The 11th Veturi literary award was presented to renowned film lyricist Bhuvana Chandra. The award was given jointly by Veturi Sahithi Peetham and Sri Prakash Cultural Association at Tuni on Friday. Payakaraopeta MLA Golla Babu Rao, who attended the event as the chief guest, gave the award. Literary persons from Tuni and Payakaraopeta felicitated Mr. Bhuvana Chandra. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Bhuvana Chandra said he was honoured to receive the award. He said there were pportunities for up-and-coming singers and lyricists, but they need to have command over Telugu literature.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/veturi-award-presented-to-bhuvana-chandra/article33701271.ece
30 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Poor sanitation near Poorna Market irks official||GVMC Additional Commissioner V. Sanyasi Rao expressed anger over sanitary wing officials for poor sanitation near Poorna Market. He inspected the surrounding areas of Poorna Market and fruit market in Zone III here on Friday. Mr. Sanyasi Rao asked the sanitary inspector to ensure cleaning of roads and drainages from time to time. He also enquired whether door-to-door garbage collection is going on daily. Mr. Sanyasi Rao also appealed to the shopkeepers to use dustbins without fail and also hand over waste to the sanitary staff. He instructed the GVMC staff to impose fines on those shopkeepers using plastic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/poor-sanitation-near-poorna-market-irks-official/article33701389.ece
30 January 2021||VIZIANAGARAM/SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP to test the waters in panchayat polls||The Bharatiya Janata Party wants to test the waters in the panchayat elections, thanks to its significant fight in Ramateertham where Lord Rama’s idol of Sri Kodandrama’s temple was vandalised a month ago. The party, which gives utmost priority for protection of temples, has fought for the immediate arrest of the culprits who were indulged in vandalism and organised many agitations by mobilising leaders and cadres of both Vizianagaram and Srikakulam districts. BJP leaders felt that its fight for protection of temples and public issues further strengthened the party in many villages and youngsters are keen on contesting the panchayat elections. Party senior leader Pakalapati Sanyasi Raju, who unsuccessfully contested the Vizianagaram parliament seat in 2019 elections, said the party could get renewed energy after formation of the Narendra Modi government second time at centre. “Many schemes of the Union government are ensuring speedy development in villages. The villagers are also able to understand the importance of the schemes. It certainly helps our candidates, although the elections are being held on non-party basis,” said Mr. Sanyasi Raju. Cheepurupalli former MLA Gadde Babu Rao, who recently joined the BJP, said that many youngsters were willing to join the race in several panchayats in Cheepurupalli constituency. “People are fed up with regional parties,” he said. Series of meetings BJP Vizianagaram Parliamentary wing president Reddy Pavani, party Srikakulm Parliamentary party wing president Ravi Babji and other senior leaders are holding meetings with candidates who came forward to contest the elections. The party is planning to field candidates for at least 500 seats out of 959 panchayats in Vizianagaram district. The party is expected to filed candidates in 400 places in Srikakulam district. According to sources, the party’s plan is to have its own cadre in all villages irrespective of outcome in panchayat elections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bjp-to-test-the-waters-in-panchayat-polls/article33700720.ece
30 January 2021||January 30 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Back in action||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/back-in-action/article33701383.ece
30 January 2021||January 30 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Eye-catching||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/eye-catching/article33701393.ece
30 January 2021||January 30 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||On the job||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/on-the-job/article33701279.ece
30 January 2021||January 30 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Hard grind||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hard-grind/article33701380.ece
30 January 2021||January 30 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Code compliance||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/code-compliance/article33700726.ece
30 January 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Clamour for mining varsity in coal hub grows louder||The long-standing demand for a mining university in the coal mining hub of Kothagudem is growing louder with several student unions making a fervent appeal to TRS MPs to press for the Centre’s nod for the mining university in the current Budget session of Parliament. Various students’ unions, mainly the Students’ Federation of India (SFI), have been consistently demanding the setting up of a mining university in the mineral rich and coal mining centre of Kothagudem to provide higher education and employment opportunities to the local youth in the mining industry. The vociferous demands from students and youth organisations to this effect prompted the authorities concerned to forward a proposal to upgrade the University College of Engineering (Kakatiya University) in Kothagudem into a mining university in 2016. A panel of experts, including representatives of the Telangana State Council of Higher Education (TSCHE), conducted a field visit of the University College of Engineering in the coal town as part of a feasibility study the same year. However, the ambitious plan appears to be stuck in limbo now. The demand for a mining university and a tribal university in the mineral-rich and tribal dominated district remained unfulfilled till date due to the apathy of the ruling dispensations at the State and the Centre, deplored Bhupendra, district convenor, SFI. “We appeal to the TRS MPs representing the erstwhile undivided Khammam district to raise these demands on the floor of the House during the Parliament session to realise the long-cherished aspirations of the youth of the district. We will chart out an agitation plan to press for the universities in the district soon,” he asserted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/clamour-for-mining-varsity-in-coal-hub-grows-louder/article33701318.ece
30 January 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Brf||Telangana State Commission for Protection of Child Rights (TSCPCR) will hold a sitting of its bench in Bhadrachalam town on February 2 to hear cases related to violation of child rights. The bench will receive complaints pertaining to child labour, trafficking, sexual abuse, forced child begging, malnutrition, denial of admission to schools and other violations of child rights, according to a press release. The sitting will be from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. at the Sub-Collector’s office. The child rights body will look into grievances related to children (0-18 years) and resolve them. Complaints related to child rights violations can be submitted to the bench in writing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/brf/article33701080.ece
30 January 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘India ready to act as global test bed for tech-based solutions’||IT Minister K.T. Rama Rao has said that India, given its broad spectrum of economic, social and geographical scenarios, was well positioned to act as a global test bed for building emerging technology-based solutions, which can be readily scaled across Third World countries to achieve sustainable development goals. The Minister said that Telangana has formulated actionable technology policy frameworks for the State in emerging tech areas such as Blockchain, Drones, Artificial Intelligence, Open Data, Cyber Security, and Cloud. He was speaking at the World Economic Forum’s virtual panel session on “Harnessing Emerging Technologies in India” on Friday. The panelists deliberated on “How can emerging technologies further boost productivity, expedite the growth transition and reinforce resilience to future shocks to meet India's pressing challenges?”. The participants included Rajan Anandan, Managing Director, Sequoia Capital; Meagan Fallone, Director, Barefoot College International and Jai Shroff, Global CEO, UPL Ltd. The session was moderated by Diksha Madhok. Steps taken by TS During his opening remarks, Mr Rama Rao spoke about the steps initiated by Telangana government to leverage innovation and emerging technologies in various sectors like agriculture, healthcare and education. He also gave an overview of the various multi-stakeholder initiatives like AI for Agriculture and Medicines from the Sky. He said Telangana was investing in improving digital infrastructure via the T-Fiber project. Responding to a question, the Minister opined that digital readiness has been instrumental for a V-shaped economic recovery during the COVID pandemic. Conventional businesses rapidly went online across the country, leveraging improving internet accessibility. Internet has enabled access to new markets helping first movers to not only recover but thrive during the pandemic. In his concluding remarks, the IT Minister said that underlying disparities in healthcare, education, financial stability and technology have led the COVID-19 crisis to disproportionately impact certain groups and countries.  Conventional businesses rapidly went online across the country during the pandemic, leveraging improving internet accessibility. K.T. Rama Rao, IT Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/india-ready-to-act-as-global-test-bed-for-tech-based-solutions/article33701048.ece
30 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Centre releases only Rs. 245.96 cr. flood relief||The Centre has announced release of an additional assistance of Rs. 245.96 crore to Telangana State, which was affected by floods in October last year. Under NDRF The high-level committee under the chairmanship of Union Home Minister Amit Shah announced the assistance under the National Disaster Response Fund (NDRF). The release forms part of the Rs. 1,751 crore released to five States – Assam, Arunachal Pradesh, Odisha, Telangana and Uttar Pradesh that braved these natural disasters during the previous southwest monsoon, the Union government said in a press release. The Centre has released just Rs. 245.96 crore after the State government sought immediate financial assistance of Rs. 1,350 crore. Widespread damage Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao who addressed a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi in October said there was widespread damage and massive crop loss across the State due to heavy rains. Primary estimates of the losses due to rains were estimated at Rs. 5,000 crore, he said. After 3 months More than three months after the Chief Minister made his request, the Centre said it had deputed inter-ministerial Central teams immediately after the calamities without waiting for the receipt of memorandum from the affected State governments. It claimed that it had released Rs. 19,036.43 crore to 28 States from the State Disaster Response Fund and another Rs. 4,409.71 crore to 11 States from the NDRF.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/centre-releases-only-rs-24596-cr-flood-relief/article33701068.ece
30 January 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Cyberabad Security Council turns 15, celebrations galore||The Society for Cyberabad Security Council (SCSC), the collaboration between Cyberabad Police and IT Industry, completed 15 years on Friday. Home Minister Mohammed Mahmood Ali, DGP M. Mahender Reddy, Principal Secretary (IT and C) Jayesh Ranjan, Police Commissioners Anjani Kumar (Hyderabad), V.C. Sajjanar (Cyberabad) and Mahesh M. Bhagwat (Rachakonda) and other senior officers took part in the event. Mr. Ali said that SCSC is the perfect example of public-private partnership. He added that the only difference between human beings and animals is the ability to help others. “There is no development if there is no peace. Both are interdependent. The collaborative efforts of public and police is essential for public safety,” he said. DGP Reddy explained how SCSC came into being: “It has become a role model for the best collaborative efforts between the industry and the police. An interface of this scale doesn’t exist anywhere in the world.” SCSC had become a benchmarking institution and must be replicated in all districts, he said. “We have recently issued orders to all unit officers across the State to form such bodies. Benefits of the technology must go through the police service delivery. Towards that effect, we started digitisation of our services. We have taken up CCTV projects on a war footing,” Mr. Reddy said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cyberabad-security-council-turns-15-celebrations-galore/article33701046.ece
30 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Revanth’s petition dismissed||The ACB special court here on Friday dismissed a petition filed by Congress MLA A. Revanth Reddy challenging jurisdiction of ACB court to try the cash for vote scam registered against him. Mr. Reddy is facing criminal case registered by the ACB in 2015 accusing him of offering Rs. 50 lakh bribe to nominated MLA Elvis Stephenson to cast vote in favour of TDP nominee in MLC elections. Mr. Reddy was in TDP then and eventually joined Congress. Investigators framed charges against him and the trial was to begin when Mr. Reddy filed a case challenging jurisdiction of the court. His counsel contended that the charges frame against him did not constitute a crime under the Prevention of Corruption Act and hence the ACB special court has no power to try the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/revanths-petition-dismissed/article33701082.ece
30 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||197 new COVID cases in State||Active COVID-19 cases in Telangana have come to around 2,500 with 197 fresh cases and 356 recoveries reported during the 24-hour period till 8 pm on Thursday. As on Thursday night, the total positive cases in the State reached 2,94,120 and that of recoveries was 2,89,987. With two more COVID-related deaths reported on Thursday, the total number of fatalities due to the infectious virus has gone up to 1,596. The active cases were 2,537, including 1,083 individuals in home and institutional isolation, and the remaining under treatment in various government and private hospitals. A bulletin on the COVID-19 status in the State issued by Director of Public Health G. Srinivasa Rao on Friday also stated that the recovery rate has increased to 98.59% in Telangana as against 96.9% at the national level. Similarly, the case fatality rate remained at 0.54% in the State against 1.4% at the national level. The bulletin stated that a total of 31,486 samples were screened to detect COVID-19 positive cases during the 24-hour period till 8 pm on January 28, taking the total tests done in the State till that time to 77,90,901. Of the samples collected on Thursday, reports pertaining to 748 persons were awaited. Among the tests done on Thursday, 27,554 were done in government hospitals/labs and 3,982 in private hospitals/labs. Of the positive cases reported on Thursday, maximum of 38 cases were from GHMC area followed by 13 from Rangareddy, 12 from Karimnagar and 11 from Medchal-Malkajgiri districts. In the remaining 29 districts, Jayashankar-Bhupalapally, Jogulamba-Gadwal and Narayanpet reported zero cases, while the other 26 districts reported cases in single digits.  Case tally On Thursday, Hyderabad topped the list with 38 cases followed by Rangareddy (13), Karimnagar (12) and Medchal-Malkajgiri (11) Jayashankar-Bhupalapally, Jogulamba-Gadwal and Narayanpet reported zero cases Rest 26 districts had cases in single digit||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/197-new-covid-cases-in-state/article33701041.ece
30 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Mahabubnagar facilities set example with 96% inoculation||The Government Medical College and General Hospital at Mahabubnagar have set an example for other health institutions, both in the government and private sector in the State, in meeting the COVID-19 vaccine delivery target. Director of GMC Mahabubnagar Putta Srinivas said of the 901 healthcare workers in the two institutions, 866 have been inoculated as of January 29 with a coverage of 96.16%. “With such huge response to vaccination among the healthcare workers of GMC and GGH, we have set an example for other institutions in the State. By doing so, we wish to be a role model for other healthcare workers, a section of whom have some hesitation,” he said. According to GMC and GGH Mahabubnagar officials, the total number of healthcare workers including doctors, nursing staff, paramedical staff, technical staff and other support staff in GMC was 453 and that in GGH, the number stood at 517. However, 28 healthcare workers in GMC and 41 in GGH were not eligible for vaccination as they included pregnant women, lactating mothers and others having reasons on medical grounds. With 413 of the 425 eligible healthcare workers in GMC and 453 out of 476 in GGH being vaccinated, the inoculation rate has been 97.17% in GMC and 95.6% in GMC. The remaining 12 and 24 remaining healthcare workers in the two institutions, respectively, have cited different reasons including allergies, medication, not willing and others for not getting inoculated. NO AEFI cases Dr. Putta Srinivas stated that except for pain at the injection site, mild headache and mild fever in some cases, no other adverse event following immunisation (AEFI) have been reported in the two institutions so far. Meanwhile, the percentage of healthcare workers in the State and Central government institutions to be inoculated as of Friday was 64 as 1,09,161 of the 1,76,728 were given the vaccine. In the private institutions, the coverage was 35.5% as 54,879 out of 1,54,396 healthcare workers were inoculated. The cumulative percentage of vaccination was 57. 47% covered on Friday According to the officials of the Directorate of Public Health, only 47% of the healthcare workers targeted for inoculation on Friday were covered in 352 sessions planning for the day. As against a total 32,635 healthcare workers planned to be covered on the day, only 15,360 took the vaccine. Only two minor AEFI were reported and both the individuals were said to be stable. Director of Public Health Dr. G. Srinivasa Rao stated that vaccination for the private healthcare workers would continue on January 30 and again next week on February 3, 4 and 5.  With such huge response to vaccination among the healthcare workers of GMC and GGH, we wish to be a role model for other healthcare workers, a section of whom have some hesitation. Putta Srinivas, Director of GMC Mahabubnagar||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/with-96-inoculation-facilities-in-mahabubnagar-set-example/article33701042.ece
30 January 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Abducted girl rescued||A two-and-half-year-old girl, who was kidnapped by an auto rickshaw driver, for selling to an issueless couple, at Malakpet was rescued within 24 hours, police said on Friday. According to the police, the girl’s father, 27-year-old ragpicker Sudugu Ajay, was sleeping with his wife Laxmi and daughter on a footpath at Moosarambagh on January 27.  During sleep In the wee hours of January 28 Mr. Ajay woke up and found that his daughter was missing and he lodged a complaint at the Malakpet police station. A case was registered. The police arrested 29-year-old auto driver Kalavala Sravan Kumar, from Amberpet, for kidnapping the girl, and she was rescued from the abductor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/infant-girl-rescued-within-24-hours/article33701059.ece
30 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Daylight murder of employee rights: BJP on PRC report||Telangana government employees are now struck by a ‘second coronavirus strain’ through the KCR government’s ‘unscientific’ Pay Revision Commission (PRC), which had recommended just 7.5% fitment in salary hike for employees, charged senior BJP leader P. Muralidhar Rao on Friday. “Our party is totally opposed to the PRC report, which is already late by three years. This is nothing but daylight murder of employee rights. The TRS government is sure to face their wrath as such a low hike was last given in 1974 and it is absolutely false to claim the amount spent on salaries here is highest in the country,” he told a press conference. Mr. Rao questioned the criteria used by the PRC in reducing HRA and cutting 1% for health and accused the government of being totally ‘irresponsible’. “We totally condemn the commercial approach towards healthcare. We demand Rs. 20,00,000 gratuity as given by the Centre and States like Gujarat, UP and others, to the staff here. A cashless health insurance scheme similar to the CGHS should also be introduced,” he said. Picking holes in the PRC report, the senior leader said that contract employees and those working in the educational institutions got a raw deal too. “KCR government cannot hide behind the high debt for the low hike because it has been claiming the capital investment is for improving productivity. The Chief Minister claimed to be heading a rich State and now cannot make the employees suffer due to TS being a debt trap,” he averred. “In any case, the people of Telangana, including the youth and unemployed, are not ready to believe the TRS any more as the PRC had revealed vacancies in the government. We have been highlighting the various ‘deficiencies’ in governance and had released chargesheets of various sectors. But, this is a paralytic government that functions only in fits and starts. For instance, it has been able to appoint only two VCs so far to the universities,” pointed out Mr. Rao. Telangana was formed irrespective of political parties and TRS alone cannot claim credit so the party totally rejects the contention of Minister K.T. Rama Rao’s assertion that leaders of other parties had benefited only because of his party’s successful agitation for a separate State. The BJP leader also charged the TRS of trying to put obstacles in the path of collection of donations for the Sri Rama Janmabhoomi Temple by the trust concerned. Training his guns on the Congress, he alleged that its Punjab government had sent ‘gangsters’ to Delhi to storm the Red Fort on Republic Day. Boycott of President’s address in support of the farmers’ agitation was an ‘insult’ to Parliament.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/daylight-murder-of-employee-rights-bjp-on-prc-report/article33701066.ece
30 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||NABARD pegs State’s credit potential at Rs. 1.35 lakh crore||The National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD) has projected the State’s credit potential for the financial year 2021-22 at Rs. 1,35,780.33 crore, 18.5% higher than the previous year’s Rs. 1,14,578 crore. Farm credit gets the lion’s share of the total credit potential at Rs. 72,321.93 crore, almost Rs. 9,000 crore more than the current fiscal’s Rs. 63,388 crore and the ancillary activities like food processing accounted to Rs. 8,281.3 crore against the Rs. 7,812.22 crore projected for the current financial year. Credit potential for agriculture infrastructure was pegged at Rs. 2,764 crore against the Rs. 2,484 crore in the credit plan released by the bank in the presence of Finance Minister T. Harish Rao on Friday. Credit potential for MSMEs too received due attention with an estimated Rs. 39,361.13 crore, over Rs. 10,000 crore higher than the Rs. 28,577.64 crore projected for the fiscal 2020-21. Housing credit was projected at Rs. 8,640.21 crore while the projection for education was at Rs. 2,347.85 crore against Rs. 8,149.86 crore and Rs. 2,256.26 crore projected respectively for the year 2020-21. NABARD chief general manager Y.K. Rao said four major thrust areas — farm mechanisation, oil palm cultivation, farmer producer organisations and agriculture infrastructure fund — were identified by the bank for the next fiscal in view of major interventions taken up by the State government as well as the bank. Mr. Harish Rao thanked NABARD for implementing his suggestions as part of the year’s plan and said the credit plans should be designed keeping in view the needs and aspirations of farmers. Elaborating on the strides made in Telangana in the priority sector, he said that the State registered cultivation in over 65 lakh acres last rabi, which was much higher than the normal of around 30 lakh. The sector was facing new challenges in areas like shortage of labour, inadequate storage space, cold storages and processing and packing. These need to be addressed in right earnest and action plans should be evolved accordingly to provide loans to farmers to cater to their needs. Harvesting equipment should reach farmers’ doorsteps while focus should be on quality, processing and packaging in view of the significant enhancement in production over and above the requirements mandating exports abroad. “Only increase in productivity will not benefit farmers, efforts should be made to reduce the production costs to help them,” he said. In this context, he stressed the need for encouraging cultivation of oil palm and NABARD could render its assistance in this direction. Efforts should also be made to adapt new agricultural practices and NABARD should provide loans to graduates in agriculture related studies. State Planning Board vice-chairman B. Vinod Kumar said that agricultural production in the State had increased manifold post bifurcation, but no commensurate increase in the income of farmers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/nabard-pegs-states-credit-potential-at-rs-135-lakh-crore/article33701072.ece
30 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Owaisi criticises BJP over handling of farm laws||All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen president Asaduddin Owaisi on Friday commented on the Centre’s handling of the farm laws and accused the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) of not respecting democratic processes, and maintained that attitude damages the ‘sanctity of the Parliament.’ Mr Owaisi took to Twitter and in a series of tweets said that he had demanded a discussion on the farm laws when they were proposed. He alleged that when the BJP faces ‘justifiable’ opposition, the party ‘backtracks’. He reiterated that when these laws were proposed, the AIMIM had demanded that they be sent to a standing committee. “If the BJP had followed these processes, it wouldn’t have been so surprised by the backlash. Now looking at the opposition, it is decided to suspend the laws for 1.5 years (sic),” he tweeted, adding that the BJP should ‘learn to listen to public representatives’. “Steamrolling Parliament first and then suspending laws isn’t good for democracy’s health.(sic)” The Hyderabad parliamentarian touched upon discussions on minority affairs and said that there has been only one discussion on the subject. He demanded that a discussion be held in the upcoming Parliament session. Mr. Owaisi also demanded a session on Chinese intrusions into Indian territories. “It's not acceptable to say Chinese occupation is a sensitive matter & no discussion can happen. There are adequate protections in parliamentary procedure to allow a discussion. We've seen many images & reports in media. As Members of Parliament we have a right to seek answers from govt (sic),” he tweeted.  If the BJP had followed the process, it wouldn’t have been so surprised by the backlash.   Asaduddin Owaisi, MIM chief.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/owaisi-criticises-bjp-over-handling-of-farm-laws/article33701086.ece
30 January 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Prepare vision document to promote alumni role’||Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan asked the universities to come up with vision documents outlining the strategy and roadmap to promote the role of alumni in the development of universities. Emphasising on the fact that alumni have a great potential to contribute to the universities, she said that it was high time that the universities take the proactive steps to promote the alumni role. She was reviewing the progress of the “Chancellor Connects Alumni,” initiative launched last year, with the vice-chancellors and the registrars of the universities through a virtual mode. “The alumni can contribute in different ways like extending financial assistance, scholarships, fellowships, travel grants, sponsorships, and research grants to the students. They can also donate laboratory equipment, computers and construct buildings like the PG Block constructed by the alumni of the Sri Venkateshwara Medical College in Tirupati,” she said. The Governor directed the authorities to organise the department-wise, faculty-wise, college-wise and the university-wise alumni association meetings so as to engage the alumni with the institution and promote their role in its development. Proactive drive “There must be some proactive drive to enrol all the alumni in the chancellor connects alumni portal and explore their contribution.” Special Chief Secretary Chitra Ramachandran, senior IAS officers and in-charge vice-chancellors of different universities in the State Jayesh Ranjan, Arvind Kumar, B Janardhan Reddy, Rahul Bojja, Collegiate Education Commissioner Navin Mittal and other vice-chancellors and the registrars were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/take-steps-to-promote-alumni-role/article33701060.ece
30 January 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||State-wide policy necessary for reopening hostels: Arvind Kumar||In-charge Vice-Chancellor of Osmania University K. Arvind Kumar argued for a State-wide policy on the reopening of hostels instead of leaving it to the discretion of the universities. Speaking at an interaction with Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan here on Friday, he also wanted clarity on the hostels reopening for research scholars. The meeting was organised to discuss the readiness of the universities to open their portals to the students. In-charge vice-chancellor of the Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University- Hyderabad (JNTUH)) Jayesh Ranjan said that they have already started coordinating with all the 261 affiliated colleges for the implementation of COVID-19 prevention safety norms and all the constituent colleges are ready for opening on February 1. Special Chief Secretary Chitra Ramachandran said the SOPs prepared by the State and Central governments will be scrupulously implemented while assuring that State government was fully prepared to ensure the safety of the students in the educational institutions. Earlier, the Governor emphasised on the need for taking care of students’ health, safety, psychological, and nutritional aspects during the resumption of physical classes. She appreciated the vice chancellors for conducting the online classes, examinations and declaring the results. The Governor also advised the universities to go for the health profiling of all the students to offer them best services in case of any exposure to the COVID-19. Special Chief Secretary Chitra Ramachandran, in-charge vice-chancellors Jayesh Ranjan, Arvind Kumar, B. Janardhan Reddy, Rahul Bojja, T. Chiranjeevulu, Collegiate Education Commissioner Navin Mittal, Chairman of the Telangana State Council for Higher Education (TSCHE) Papi Reddy, and other vice-chancellors and registrars of all the universities in the State were among those who interacted with the Governor and Chancellor of the universities during the video conference.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/reopening-hostels-a-policy-decision/article33701061.ece
30 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Get ready for Assembly polls: CPI||CPI general secretary D. Raja has exhorted the party rank and file to be prepared for the forthcoming assembly elections in five States as they are crucial for the Left parties in general and CPI in particular. The CPI leaderships in West Bengal, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Assam and Puducherry should focus their energies on the upcoming elections in these States, he said. Mr. Raja delivered the inaugural address at the three-day national executive and national council meeting of the CPI which got off here on Friday. The national council was the first meeting with direct participation convened by a political party after the incidence of the pandemic. The meeting is expected to discuss at length about the upcoming elections in the five States and the ‘anti-people’ legislations enacted by Prime Minister Narendra Modi led Central government among others. The CPI general secretary lamented that the Central government resorted to several retrograde steps in the light of COVID and enacted several “anti-farmer and anti-worker” legislations in Parliament. The enactment of the legislations had exposed once again that the BJP-led government was working to serve the interests of big businesses and corporates. The Government was sure to face severe opposition from the farmers, workers, women and other sections for its agricultural laws and privatization of the public sector establishments in the guise of the pandemic. The national council of the CPI which is slated to start from Saturday would deliberate on these issues. The national council meeting would also evolve strategies that should be adopted in the run up to the elections in the five States.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/get-ready-for-assembly-polls/article33701074.ece
30 January 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Mother, daughter found dead in lake||A woman and her eight-year-old daughter were found dead in a lake at Kanjar village of Nizamabad district on Friday. The victims were identified as 38-year-old J. Anuradha and her eight-year-old daughter J from Kanjar village. According to the police, Anuradha reportedly killed her daughter by pushing her into the lake and then she also jumped into the water. She was reportedly vexed by her husband’s harassment and resorted to the extreme step.  There is always someone to listen at: +914066202000 or 6666 1117 at this Hyderabad-based suicide intervention centre Roshni.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/mother-daughter-found-dead-in-lake/article33701312.ece
30 January 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Mandal panchayat officer in ACB net||Four people, including mandal panchayat officer of Maheshwaram mandal and panchayat secretary of Mansanpally village in Rangareddy district, were arrested by the Anti Corruption Bureau officials on Friday for allegedly accepting a bribe of Rs. 7.5 lakh from a complainant and his friend for showing official favour. Realtor complains Officials said that panchayat secretary J. Geeta, Mansanpally sarpanch’s husband Kandi Ramesh, deputy sarpanch B. Narasimha Yadav were caught red handed when they demanded and accepted the bribe of Rs. 5.50 lakh at Gram Panchayat office from complainant Jakkidi Muthyam Reddy, who works at a real estate company. Simultaneously, Maheshwara MPDO Goda Srinivasulu was also caught while taking a bribe of Rs. 2 lakh at his office from Jampala Srinivas, a friend of Mr. Muthyam Reddy to allow their real estate venture at Mansanpally village and not to create any ‘hurdles’. Amount recovered “Tained amount of Rs. 5.5 lakh and Rs. 2 lakh was recovered from the possession Geeta and Srinivasulu respectively,” an official said, adding that all the four accused were produced before the Special Judge for ACB cases, Hyderabad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/four-people-in-acb-net/article33701083.ece
30 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||JAC wants revised consolidated pension||The Telangana government Pensioners’ Joint Action Committee (JAC) has demanded that the government should implement the revised consolidated basic pension and revised consolidated family pension with effect from July 1, 2018. The government should positively consider the recommendation by PRC for granting monetary benefit arising from the fitment formula with effect from July 1,2018, the Pensioners’ JAC said in a letter addressed to the three-member committee headed by Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar. JAC chairman K. Lakshmaiah said that the additional quantum of the pension/family pension should be fixed at 10% of the basic pension/family pension for pensioners who completed 70 years. The government could add 5% once every five years thereafter. The proposal for contribution of 1% of the basic pay towards the corpus that would be created towards employees health scheme was totally unacceptable. Pensioners were however, prepared to give Rs. 100 a month towards the corpus if the government was willing to give a matching contribution. The JAC also wanted the government to make alterations to the PRC recommendations ensuring that the gratuity limit at the time of retirement should be raised to Rs. 20 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/committee-for-revised-consolidated-pension/article33701075.ece
30 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||HC stays order on ‘fraud’ bank account||The Telangana High Court on Friday passed an interim direction staying declaration of M/s Coastal Projects Limited’s bank account as fraud by the Reserve Bank of India and other banks. A bench of Chief Justice Hima Kohli and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy passed this order after hearing a writ petition filed by Sabbineni Surendra of the company. While the company’s bank account declaration as fraud was stayed, the bench made it clear that the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and the Enforcement Directorate (ED) officials were at liberty to proceed against the company in accordance with law. The investigating agencies cannot be prevented from taking action as per the law, the bench said. The company had availed crores of loans from different banks and allegedly defaulted. It eventually went into liquidation and a liquidator was appointed. Meanwhile, the RBI had declared the company account as fraud as per its Master Circular issued earlier. Challenging this, the company moved the HC. HC order on land Hearing a separate PIL petition, the bench directed the State government not to permit registration of some land in Vattinagulapally of Gandipet mandal in RR district. No constructions should also be permitted in the said land, the bench said. Counsel for the petitioner Chinnola Naresh Reddy and environmentalist Purushotham Reddy told the court that these lands were given away to government during the Bhoodan movement, inspired by Vinoba Bhave. The Government Pleader for Revenue Bhaskar Reddy informed the court that these lands were under the list of prohibition and hence cannot be registered to any private parties.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hc-stays-order-on-fraud-bank-account/article33701064.ece
30 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||HC directs Labour Dept. to form board for workers in 4 weeks||Taking exception to the State government not constituting State Level Social Security Board to look after the welfare of workers in unorganised sector, the Telangana High Court directed Labour Commissioner to form the board within four weeks. The HC also instructed the Labour Commissioner to appear for the virtual hearing on February 25. A bench of Chief Justice Hima Kohli and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy passed these interim directions while hearing a PIL petition filed by Congress leader and former Deputy Chief Minister Damoder Rajnarsimha. When the CJ sought to know if the board was constituted as per the law, the Labour department counsel replied that it was under “active consideration” of the government and requested for some more time. “What some more time is required...it is already five months since it was heard last time,” the CJ remarked. The counsel, further explaining, said the government already nominated two members of the board. The CJ then asked how many members would be there on the board. With the counsel replying that the Board would be comprising 32 members, the CJ said that suggested that the board constitution was apparently not high on the priority of the government. Observing that non-constitution of the board “was unacceptable”, the bench made it clear to the counsel that the board should be constituted within four weeks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hc-directs-labour-dept-to-form-board-for-workers-in-4-weeks/article33701081.ece
30 January 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Pandemic has pushed digital economy ahead’||“The pandemic has disrupted our lives on one hand, but on the other, caused a quiet revolution, and advanced the digital economy by a decade,” observed Venu Srinivasan, chairman of Sundaram Clayton Group. Delivering the Foundation Day lecture of the ICFAI Foundation for Higher Education virtually on ‘Living in the World of Exponential Technology and Digitalisation’, he said the era of digital revolution has changed the way wealth was being created. Wealth creation that was in manufacturing, petrochemicals, mass manufacturing, engineering and industry moved to digital networks, software and information technology. Innovation cycles have become shorter and innovations are reaching people at a much faster rate, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/pandemic-has-pushed-digital-economy-ahead/article33701051.ece
30 January 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||New chief for NIRD-PR||G. Narendra Kumar has assumed charge as the Director General of National Institute of Rural Development and Panchayati Raj (NIRD&PR) for a period of five years. Earlier, he was Additional Chief Secretary, Government of Delhi. Mr. Narendra Kumar holds a Ph.D. from Osmania University and Master’s Degree in Public Administration from Maxwell School of Public Affairs, USA. He was instrumental in setting up four universities in Delhi as well as in increasing access to quality technical and higher education there. He was also known for developing Pondicherry as the Hardware Capital of India. Earlier, he worked in various national and international academic institutions such as Administrative Staff College of India and ICRISAT, a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/new-chief-for-nird-pr/article33701050.ece
30 January 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Panel holds negotiations||After meeting representatives of employees’ unions, the three-member committee headed by Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar held discussions with the unions representing teachers. The panel heard the views presented by Telangana Teachers’ Union, Telangana Rashtra Teachers’ Federation and Rashtra Upadhyaya and Pandit Parishad at BRKR Bhavan on Friday.The CS assured the representatives that their views would be taken to the notice of Chief Minister K. Chandrashekhar Rao for initiating necessary action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/panel-holds-negotiations/article33701076.ece
30 January 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Cong. dares KTR for a debate on jobs||Telangana Congress has challenged Municipal Administration Minister K.T. Rama Rao to prove his claims of recruitment of 1.35 lakh people by the TRS government and asked him to come for a debate on the issue. AICC secretary A. Sampath Kumar said at a press conference here on Friday that government should provide details of all the 1.35 lakh jobs it provided if it was sincere. “This is yet another ploy to mislead youngsters ahead of the Graduate MLC elections,” he claimed. On KTR’s announcement that the government was ready to declare unemployment allowance of Rs. 3,016 as promised, Mr. Sampath Kumar said, “This is to keep the youngsters in good spirits but will never be a reality as the TRS lacks sincerity.” “If you are sincere, apologise to the unemployed first and release the amount for the last 26 months since the scheme was promised in 2018 Assembly elections,” he said. In a separate press conference, TPCC spokesperson Medipally Satyam ridiculed KTR’s claim that TPCC president Uttam Kumar Reddy should be grateful to KCR for his position. He said, in fact, KCR and his entire family should be grateful to the Congress and Sonia Gandhi for their very existence in Telangana.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cong-dares-ktr-for-a-debate-on-jobs/article33701078.ece
30 January 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Transfer NIMS lands to AIIMS: BJP||Despite MBBS students joining All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) at Bibinagar last year, the State govt. is not providing the required documents, permissions and sanctions, thus hindering its expansion by the Centre, alleged BJP leader Gudur Narayana Reddy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/transfer-nims-lands-to-aiims-bjp/article33701084.ece
30 January 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Run at Sanjeevaiah Park||Secunderabad Runners are organising a five km and 10 km run at Sanjeevaiah Park here on Sunday. The run will start at 6 a.m. following all the COVID-19 norms. The run is being conducted both in virtual and physical formats and participants would get an e-certificate on submission of their run statistics.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/run-at-sanjeevaiah-park/article33701056.ece
30 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Revenue recovery quick in Telangana||The Economic Survey presented to Parliament by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitaraman on Friday noted that the V-shaped recovery in revenue collections was quite quick in States such as Telangana and AP. The Survey defined V-shaped recovery as akin to revenues dipping steeply and taking off upwards in a ‘V’ curve. When the economy was gradually unlocked since June 2020, a V-shaped recovery was experienced then. An attempt was made to capture the impact of the stringency of lockdown on high frequency indicators of economic activity in States across India. States like Haryana and Gujarat witnessed recovery a month later in July while Maharashtra, a key COVID hotspot and the biggest contributor to India’s GDP, witnessed a recovery August onwards. The survey also said that Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat and Bihar restricted the case spread best while Kerala, Telangana and AP had saved the most lives. In terms of deaths, Kerala, Telangana and AP managed it effectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/revenue-recovery-quick-in-telangana/article33701077.ece
30 January 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Green channel helps transport beating heart||Hyderabad traffic police facilitated the transport of a human heart by providing non-stop movement to the ambulance carrying the live organ. At 04.24 a.m. on Friday they arranged a green channel for transportation from Apollo Hospital, Jubilee Hills, Hyderabad, to Care Hospital, Banjara Hills. The distance between both hospitals was 6.6 km and was covered in six minutes. “The medical team carrying heart left at 04.24 a.m. from Apollo Jubilee Hills, and reached Care Hospital at 04.30 a.m.,” Additional Commissioner of Police (Traffic) Anil Kumar said. Liver transplant Seven out of 30 patients who underwent liver transplant surgery at Gleneagles Global Hospitals since the relaxation of lockdown were COVID-19 positive. In two instances, both donor and the recipient tested positive for coronavirus. Raghavendra Babu, clinical head and senior consultant liver transplant surgeon at the hospital, said the transplant surgeries were performed with 100% success rate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/green-channel-helps-transport-beating-heart/article33701044.ece
30 January 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||CS explains about the rapid strides made by TS to Japanese Consul General||Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar told Consul General of Japan in Chennai Taga Masayuki that Telangana was the rice bowl of the country. The CS explained the rapid strides made by the State in different fields, especially agriculture, under the leadership of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao when the Consul General met him at BRKR Bhavan on Friday. They discussed about the matters of common interest during the meeting. The Consul General expressed his appreciation for the State and evinced interest in knowing about the progress made here. The CS presented a copy of his book “Methods for Community Participation” in Japanese language to Mr. Masayuki.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cs-explains-about-the-rapid-strides-made-by-ts-to-japanese-consul-general/article33701070.ece
30 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Kapil Dev takes a swing at Haldi Golf County||Cricketing great Kapil Dev visited the Haldi Golf County in the city on Thursday. “I am delighted to play at Haldi Golf County. The golf course has premium facilities with an amazing view. It is a great project that offers a spectacular golf course along with residential opportunity,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/kapil-dev-takes-a-swing-at-haldi-golf-county/article33701043.ece
30 January 2021||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Junior colleges ready for reopening: RIO||District Intermediate Education Officer Govindaram informed that the junior colleges in the district are ready for reopening and all steps were put in place to follow COVID–19 regulations. Informing that written permission from parents is mandatory for students to attend classes, he said that all the students would be screened for temperature before being allowed into classrooms. The students suffering with fever, cold or other problems will be sent to the medical officers for further checking, if required, he added. The students were directed to attend classes by wearing masks and carrying their own water bottles. “Only 20 to 30 students will be allowed in each classroom and the students will be seated maintaining the mandatory six feet distance. Classes will be conducted on alternate days. Attending classes in college is not mandatory. They can attend the same classes online,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/junior-colleges-ready-for-reopening-rio/article33701315.ece
30 January 2021||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Parents sell girl child for Rs. 40,000||In a shocking incident, sale of a girl child came to the notice of officials on Friday. Now, they are in the process of rescuing her. According to officials of the Women and Child Welfare, Nagalakshmi and Naveen of Mallupally village in Mirdoddi mandal were blessed with a baby girl two weeks ago. She was the fourth child in the family. Considering that they would not be able to take care of the child due to poverty, the couple sold the baby girl to a family in Warangal district for about Rs. 40,000.  Routine visit The incident came to light when an anganwadi teacher visited the couple’s house for vaccination and found the baby girl missing. When repeatedly questioned, they admitted that the girl was sold to a family of Bimadevarapally mandal headquarters town in Warangal Urban district. Meanwhile, the officials contacted their counterparts and requested them to rescue the girl child and bring her back to Siddipet. Women and Child Welfare coordinator K. Ramu said that the girl is being brought to Siddipet and will be shifted to Sishugruha in Sangareddy as her parents are not ready to take her back. He said that the girl may be given for adoption if those who “purchased” her opt for the process of legal adoption.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/parents-sell-girl-child-for-rs-40000/article33701316.ece
30 January 2021||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||BRF||Collector P. Venkatarami Reddy has urged farmers to make drip irrigation sanctioned for both Erravalli and Narsannapet, two villages adopted by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao, a grand success. In an awareness programme held for farmers from both the villages at Erravalli on Friday, Mr. Venkatarami Reddy said that drip irrigation should be used properly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/brf/article33701079.ece
30 January 2021||January 30 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||A fun love letter to the original classic||While Spock and Kirk are breaching the final frontier exploring strange new worlds, seeking out new life and boldly going where no one has gone before, there are other less important ships following in the wake of the Enterprise — like the U.S.S. Cerritos — whose missions include gifting diplomatic trinkets to Gelrak V and towing disabled ships.  Rick and Morty’s Mike McMahon looks at life on this not-so-important ship in the animated show, Star Trek Lower Decks . Producer Alex Kurtzman has rightly called the sprightly show a love letter to Star Trek . By focusing on life below decks, the show tells the story of those who usually would be running and screaming in the background. The show explores the Star Trek universe, through the eyes of the lower deckers — Beckett Mariner (Tawny Newsome) a rule-breaker and a constant source of worry to her mum, the captain of Cerritos, Carol Freeman (Dawnn Lewis); the rule-bound Brad Boimler (Jack Quaid), who desperately wants to become captain; the eternally optimistic medical bay ensign D’Vana Tendi (Noël Wells), and Sam Rutherford (Eugene Cordero) who is starry-eyed with all the engineering stuff on board. There is also first officer, hearty and buff Jack Ransom, (Jerry O’Connell), choleric pucca sahib tactical officer Shaxs (Fred Tatasciore) and a wicked cat, T’Ana (Gillian Vigman), a Caitian doctor and infirmary head. Set in 2380, a year after 2002’s Star Trek: Nemesis , Lower Decks offers laughs, action, adventure and most importantly, “buffer time”. Tendi’s freakish genetically-engineered dog, Boimler’s phasing, the scary Farm, where medical mishaps are supposedly treated, Boimler’s date, which Mariner refuses to believe in, and Mariner’s Vindicta avatar when she remodels Boimler’s holodeck program into a movie, ensure the 25-minute episodes hum along smoothly. At the end of tenth episode, ‘No Small Parts’, when Boimler unwittingly reveals Mariner is the Captain’s daughter, one can happily say “Live Long and Prosper,” and await Season 2, which will drop later this year.  Star Trek: Lower Decks is currently streaming on Amazon Prime Video||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/a-fun-love-letter-to-original-classic/article33701055.ece
30 January 2021||New Delhi,||‘Locals’ stage protest at Tikri demanding farmers’ removal||The Tikri border, one of the epicentres of the agitation against the Centre’s farm laws, witnessed tense moments on Friday as a group of people claiming to be locals staged a protest demanding removal of the farmers there. The group of around 30-40 people from nearby areas, carried national flags and raised slogans against the alleged “dishonour” of the Tricolour by the farmer protesters on January 26. “Everyone saw how the national flag was dishonoured at Red Fort during tractor rally by farmers. We cannot allow such elements to stay here and work against the country in the garb of farmers,” one of the group members said. Heavy police force present on the spot persuaded the group to go back after some time. “We have nothing against the farmers and their demands. But we also have our rights and problems. Our livelihood has been hit and we cannot move about freely due to closure of the border for over two months,” said another group member. The agitating farmers alleged that the BJP was behind the protest by the “so-called” locals. “After failing to break our resolve to continue the agitation against the farm laws, they are now sending goons to create mischief and disturbance,” one of the protesting farmers Vija said. In the evening, police further fortified the barricading at the border point by dumping earth and placing concrete blocks to prevent movement of vehicles towards Delhi.   We have nothing against the farmers and their demands. But we also have our rights and problems A group member||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/locals-stage-protest-at-tikri-demanding-farmers-removal/article33700899.ece
30 January 2021||Chandigarh,||Fresh batches to man protest sites||With protesters on Delhi borders being pressured to vacate dharna sites, farmer outfits in Punjab and Haryana have started mobilising fresh batches to reach the locations to ensure that the agitation does not fizzle out. Rakesh Bains, spokesperson of Bharatiya Kisan Union (Chaduni), in Haryana told The Hindu that the government was trying to scuttle the agitation. “Farmers across Haryana have decided to firmly stand against the government. Several villages in Haryana have decided to send tractor-trolleys loaded with people to the protest sites. In the next two-three days, the number of protesters will swell at the Delhi borders when tens of thousands of people will reach the borders. We will not relent till our demands are met,” he said. Joginder Singh, president of Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ugrahan), one of the largest farmers’ organisations in Punjab, said that fresh batches are on their way to join the protest. “We will not settle on anything less than repealing the three farm laws,” he said. Sarvan Singh Pandher, general secretary of Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, said farmers and farm labourers from Punjab, mainly Gurdaspur, Kapurthala, Amirtsar and Tarn Taran districts will start marching on January 30 to reach the Singhu-Kundli border. Support from parties Some political parties have also decided to send their party workers to express solidarity with farmers. The Shiromani Akali Dal has asked its party cadre to rush to the three protests sites on the border with Delhi. Senior leader Bikram Singh Majithia appealed to all SAD and Youth Akali Dal workers to reach the dharna sites at Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur, stating that they were needed even more than before. Mr. Majithia said, “I know a large number of you have been camping on the Delhi borders for the last two months. However, the Central government is making attempts to crush the movement in league with the BJP government of Haryana. We must ensure this attempt to silence the voice of the farmer does not succeed at any cost. No sacrifice is too big to ensure a win for the peasantry as well as ensuring peace and communal harmony is not disturbed,” he said. Indian National Lok Dal leader Abhay Chautala said he would be marching to Ghazipur in support of farmers on January 30.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/fresh-batches-to-man-protest-sites/article33700923.ece
30 January 2021||Chandigarh,||Haryana suspends mobile internet in 14 more districts||The Haryana government on Friday suspended mobile internet services, all SMS services, excluding banking and mobile recharge, and all dongle services provided on mobile networks, except voice calls, in 14 districts until 5 p.m on January 30. The decision has been taken to prevent disturbance of peace and public order, said an official statement. The 14 districts are Ambala, Yamunanagar, Kurukshetra, Karnal, Kaithal, Panipat, Hisar, Jind, Rohtak, Bhiwani, Charkhi Dadri, Fatehabad, Rewari and Sirsa. Earlier, the government had ordered suspension of mobile internet services in Sonipat, Jhajjar and Palwal districts. “The suspension has been ordered under Rule 2 of Temporary Suspension of Telecom Services (Public Emergency or Public Safety) Rules, 2017,” the statement added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/haryana-suspends-mobile-internet-in-14-more-districts/article33700924.ece
30 January 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Punjab steps up school opening||Punjab School Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla said on Friday that all government, aided and private schools were set to reopen for Class 1 and 2 and pre-primary classes from February 1. The Minister said he has directed the Education Department officials and school managements to strictly comply with COVID-19 guidelines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/punjab-steps-up-school-opening/article33700930.ece
30 January 2021||JAIPUR,||Gehlot condemns FIRs against Tharoor, scribes||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Friday strongly condemned the first information reports registered against Congress MP Shashi Tharoor and six senior journalists over the violence during the farmers’ tractor rally in Delhi on Republic Day. Mr. Gehlot said the FIRs were “clearly an attempt to intimidate and harass” the Opposition as well as the media. “Systematic targeting of [the] Opposition and media goes against every norm of democracy,” he tweeted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/gehlot-condemns-firs-against-tharoor-scribes/article33700928.ece
30 January 2021||JAIPUR,||Four dead in spurious liquor tragedy in Bhilwara||Four people, including a woman, died and five others were hospitalised in a critical condition after they consumed spurious liquor in Saran Ka Kheda village of Bhilwara district on Friday. The victims allegedly consumed the liquor at different times after purchasing it from a kiosk where it was brewed. The area is situated in Bhilwara district’s Mandalgarh tehsil. The people who fell ill were shifted from Mandalgarh to Mahatma Gandhi Government hospital at the district headquarters. The deceased were identified as Hazari Bairwa, Sardar Bhat and Daleel Singh, and woman Saturi. Those admitted to the hospital also included two women. Four police officers, including Mandalgarh Circle Officer Vinod Kumar and police station in-charge Manoj Kumar Jat, District Excise Officer Mukesh Devpura and seven other excise officials were placed under suspension over the tragedy. The State government ordered an inquiry by the Ajmer Divisional Commissioner and sought a report within 15 days. Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot has condoled the deaths and announced an ex gratia of Rs. 2 lakh each to the next of kin of the deceased. Those being treated in the hospital will get an assistance of Rs. 50,000 each.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/four-dead-in-spurious-liquor-tragedy-in-bhilwara/article33700929.ece
30 January 2021||LUCKNOW,||Allahabad High Court provides protection to same-sex couple||Noting that it was duty-bound to monitor the rights of the citizens under threat on account of their sexual orientation, the Allahabad High Court has directed police protection for a same-sex woman couple in Uttar Pradesh’s Saharanpur. The two women, aged 23 and 22, have been in a live-in relationship for a couple of years and are voluntarily living with each other on account of their sexual orientation, the court said. They are, however, facing resistance from their family members and had approached the court seeking directions to their families to not interfere in their relationship. “The petition highlights the stark reality of the society where the citizens are facing discrimination at the hands of the society only on account of their sexual orientation despite it being well settled that sexual orientation is innate to human being,” the court said in an order dated January 21. A Division Bench of Justices Mahesh Chandra Tripathi and Sanjay Kumar Pachori directed the Senior Superintendent of Police, Saharanpur to extend suitable protection to the petitioners in the event they approach the officer for necessary protection and ensure that no harassment is caused to them.  SC verdict Counsel for the petitioners contended that despite legitimacy being accorded to such relations by the Supreme Court in the case of Navtej Singh Johar & Ors. v. Union of India, (2018) 10 SCC 1, the petitioners are being threatened with violation of their rights enshrined under Article21 of the Constitution only on the ground of their sexual orientation. “... this Court being a constitutional Court is duty bound to monitor and observe the Constitutional morality as well as the rights of the citizens which are under threat only on account of the sexual orientation,” the High Court said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/allahabad-high-court-orders-protection-for-same-sex-couple/article33700927.ece
30 January 2021||Mumbai,||Anna Hazare announces fast, calls it off hours later||Social activist Anna Hazare on Friday said he won’t be proceeding with the indefinite fast against the farm laws and claimed that the Centre has agreed to some of his demands. Earlier in the day, Mr. Hazare (84) had announced that he will be starting the hunger strike from his village Ralegan Siddhi on Saturday. Mr. Hazare said he had written to the Prime Minister and Agriculture Minister five times on the issue but to no avail. “The Union government has agreed to some of my demands and also announced setting up a committee to improve the lives of farmers. I have decided to suspend my proposed indefinite fast starting from Saturday,” he said. While announcing the hunger strike, Mr. Hazare had said, “I have been demanding reforms in the agriculture sector, but the Centre doesn’t seem to be taking the right decisions. The Centre has no sensitivity left for farmers.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/anna-hazare-announces-fast-calls-it-off-hours-later/article33701161.ece
30 January 2021||Mumbai,||Tight security in State after Israeli Embassy blast||Maharashtra Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar said he has issued instructions to strengthen the security apparatus in the State, along with Mumbai and Pune, in view of the low intensity improvised device blast near the Israeli Embassy in New Delhi on Friday. A Mumbai Police official said an alert was issued in the city following the blast.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/tight-security-in-state-after-israeli-embassy-blast/article33701160.ece
30 January 2021||Navi Mumbai,||Three arrested for stealing Bullet bikes||The Navi Mumbai Crime Branch’s Unit I has arrested three people who stole 62 Royal Enfield Bullet bikes from Maharashtra and Goa between September 2020 and January 2021. Forty-four bikes worth Rs. 1.30 crore have been recovered. The accused have been identified as Amol Shivaji Dhobale (35), a resident of Ghatkopar; Sohail Imtiaz Shaikh (28), a resident of Mumbra; and Saurabh Milind Karanje (23), a resident of Vikhroli. Unit I officials found that in all 12 cases filed in Navi Mumbai, bikes were stolen in the evening. Additional Commissioner of Police B.G. Shekhar Patil said CCTV footage showed that the accused used an ignition switch to start the engine. “Usually, thieves break the handle lock or open the socket,” he said. Navi Mumbai Police Commissioner Bipin Kumar Singh said the accused used an ignition switch worth Rs. 500 to steal a bike worth lakhs within seconds. He said, “We would be writing to the company to add some more protective features.” Mr. Singh said one accused would watch the bike, while another would track the owner who would have entered a shop or a mall. The third accused would attach the ignition switch to the jointer of the bike’s ignition box and start it, he said. Mr. Singh added that the accused targeted Bullet bikes owing to their good resale value and attraction among the youth. “The accused posed as recovery agents of banks and sold the bikes to youths at Rs. 50,000. They also forged RC books to make the buyers believe the bikes were authentic.” The Crime Branch’s Unit I formed four teams under senior police inspector Sunil Shinde and deployed them in Mumbai, Thane, Pune, Akluj in Ahmednagar, and Osmanabad, where the accused had sold the bikes. The accused had 14 cases registered against them with Thane police, 12 with Pimpri-Chinchwad police, three with Mumbai Police, and one each with Pune city, Pune rural, Ahmednagar, and Goa police. Unit I also seized a stolen car that the accused had used to go on a trip to Goa and steal a bike. The first arrest was made on January 22. The accused have been remanded in police custody till Sunday. Mr. Shinde is conducting further probe into the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/three-arrested-for-stealing-bullet-bikes/article33701162.ece
30 January 2021||New Delhi,||BJP goons asking farmers to vacate protest sites at Delhi borders: AAP||Senior AAP leader and Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Friday said that it was not local residents, but “goons of the BJP” who are asking farmers to vacate protest sites at different borders of Delhi. While visiting a protest site in Ghazipur at Delhi-Uttar Pradesh border, Mr. Sisodia said that BJP should explain why they were terming “sardars as traitors”. Meanwhile, Water Minister Satyendar Jain, who had visited Singhu border, another protest site, with water tankers claimed that on the BJP’s orders, the police did not even allow supply of basic facilities, such as water to the farmers. “It’s unfortunate that “sardars”, who are strong patriots, are being called traitors. The real traitors are the ones who are calling the farmers that. Central government is wronging the farmers under the pressure from ‘capitalist friends’. AAP always stands with farmers and the Sikh community,” Mr. Sisodia said. He said that farmers who feed the nation are being called traitors, being abused and being called violent. “The BJP is calling them traitors. The BJP will have to tell the country why they are calling ‘sardars’ traitors,” the AAP leader said. Mr. Sisodia said that on Thursday, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had talked to Rakesh Tikait, one of the leaders of the farmers. “He [Mr. Tikait] had said that the Uttar Pradesh government has removed facilities for water. We made arrangements last [Thursday] night. We have arranged nine to 10 tankers and toilets on directions of the Chief Minister.” When asked about local people allegedly asking farmers to leave the protest sites, Mr. Sisodia said, “These are not locals. These are goons of the BJP.” “Rakesh ji, we are completely with the farmers. Your demands are valid. It is wrong to discredit the farmers’ movement, call farmers as traitors and make false cases against leaders of farmers who have been agitating peacefully for so many days,” Mr. Kejriwal said in a tweet in Hindi. Mr. Jain claimed that the central government and the BJP leadership were behind this “shameful decision” to stop the water tankers at Singhu. “They want to keep the farmers thirsty and hungry because they think in this way, they can stop the protest. The Kejriwal government believes that when the farmers are in Delhi, it is our fundamental duty to provide them with water and toilet facilities,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/bjp-goons-asking-farmers-to-vacate-protest-sites-at-delhi-borders-aap/article33700915.ece
30 January 2021||New Delhi,||‘U.P. ordinance on conversion capable of public mischief’||Justice Ajit Prakash Shah, former Chief Justice of Delhi High Court, on Friday said the controversial Uttar Pradesh Ordinance aimed at checking unlawful religious conversions for inter-faith marriages was “capable of great public mischief”. Justice Shah made the remarks while speaking at a virtual meet organised by the Delhi High Court Women Lawyers’ Forum on ‘Attack on Love Marriage and Freedom of Choice’. Justice Shah, who headed the High Court Bench that decriminalised homosexuality in 2009, said the idea of fraternity is being tested most in India today. “We are watching this attack on this most fundamental of democratic principles play out in our backyard through The Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Religious Conversion Ordinance, 2020,” Justice Shah said. The former Chairman of Law Commission of India said: “This Ordinance has been promulgated to combat the perceived threat of ‘love jihad’, a term commonly used to describe inter-faith relationships and marriage. The ordinance makes it a criminal offence for a person to convert another by coercion, misrepresentation and so on. There is nothing objectionable in that itself. But it greatly violates the freedom of conscience and the fundamental right to practice religion. It also strikes at the right to life and liberty guaranteed by the Constitution.” Burden of proof He explained that ordinarily, in any given case the burden of proof is on the prosecution. Under this Ordinance, however, every religious conversion is presumed to be illegal. The burden of proof now lies with the person accused of religious conversion to prove that it is not illegal. The offence is cognisable and non-bailable, so the police can arrest the accused without a warrant, Justice Shah said, adding, “Interestingly, reconversion is not illegal.” “An aggrieved person can lodge a complaint against anyone. A lot of people can be brought under this net. This law is capable of great public mischief. Indeed my own marriage is inter-faith as amongst one of my children. Such relationship should be celebrated, instead we are criminalising them,” he remarked. “With the executive and legislature having failed us on this front what can the third arm of the government [judiciary] do. In a recent case, the Allahabad High Court held that marriage is a matter of choice and every adult woman has the fundamental right to choose her partner,” Justice Shah said. Speaking at the virtual meet, advocate Kirti Singh said the entire drama of ‘love jihad’ was done to target inter-faith marriages, and particularly Hindu and Muslim interfaith marriages.  An aggrieved person can lodge a complaint against anyone. With the executive and legislature having failed us on this front what can the third arm of the government [judiciary] do. Justice Ajit Prakash Shah Former Chief Justice of Delhi HC||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/up-ordinance-on-conversion-capable-of-public-mischief/article33700909.ece
30 January 2021||New Delhi,||IIT-K submits proposal to Delhi govt. on real-time pollution study||IIT-Kanpur has submitted a proposal to the Delhi government for conducting a study to find what exactly are the sources of pollutants in the city’s air on a real time basis, a Delhi government official told The Hindu . The move follows a decision by Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia to “terminate” the same study, which was being done by University of Washington in St. Louis for the Delhi government, in December. Cost of project “According to the proposal, the new study will cost about Rs. 11 crore. An expert committee will examine the proposal and, if found feasible, then the study will be allotted to IIT-Kanpur on nomination basis without a tender. The decision will be taken by the Cabinet,” the official said. The proposed study is different from the earlier one as a whole team will be working on the new one. Also, a “super monitoring site”, a tall structure with sensors, will be set up by IIT-Kanpur, as part of the study, according to officials. “IIT-Kanpur will analyse the data and create an algorithm which will give what are sources of pollution on a real-time basis,” the official added. As per the proposal, it will take 18 months to complete the study once approved. The study is important since what causes pollution in the city has been a matter of constant debate between the city and the Central government. The Delhi government has been stating that stubble burning in Punjab and Haryana is the major cause of air pollution in Delhi during the winter. On the other hand, the Centre has multiple times pointed out that local pollutants in the city are also a main reason. In 2018, the Delhi Cabinet, headed by Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, had approved a proposal for the study by University of Washington in St. Louis. The university went ahead with the study and the government paid them more than Rs. 50 lakh. However, a three-member committee appointed by the Delhi government raised red flags about the study in October and November. Later, a decision was taken in December to cancel it and find a new agency to do the study.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/iit-k-submits-proposal-to-delhi-govt-on-real-time-pollution-study/article33700918.ece
30 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Republic Day celebrations in Delhi come to a close||Seats were at a fair distance from each other, and not only the attendees but the officers who performed with their drums and pipes had masks on. What stole the show of Beating Retreat was an old favourite composition by the Air Force Band. As the Republic Day celebrations came to a close with Beating Retreat on Friday at Vijay Chowk, the drums embedded with white light played by the Air Force Band, especially during their composition “Evening Star”, got a round of applause louder than the rest. Performances “All of it was absolutely amazing but ‘Evening Star’ stood out for me. It was really upbeat and different. It was a performance which millennials like us could connect with,” said Sneha Bhansali (21) who had come with her friends and to the event for the first time on Friday. Another element of the event which caught people’s keen attention was playing of a song on the Indian Army titled ‘ Hum sher hai Galwan ke ’, with a video playing out in the background of Army officers in Galwan. The event started with Navy, Army and Air Force chief arriving in their cars followed by Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Vice-President Venkaiah Naidu and finally President Ram Nath Kovind arriving with a fleet of decked-up horses. There were a few new perfoprmances this time, including ‘Tiranga Senani ’  and ‘ Nidar Yodha ’  presented by the Air Force Band, ‘Bharat Vandana ’ by Naval Band, and ‘ Abhinandan Bharat ’ and ‘ Sambhodan Echo ’ by Army Military Band. The retreat ended with the hymn ‘Abide with me’ followed by ‘ Saare jahan se accha ’ which visibly evoked a feeling of patriotism in the crowd. While the number of guests this time being limited owing to COVID-19, a few managed to get entry passes. Harsh Bhandari (17), a resident of Hauz Khas, who had come with his mother, said: “I have come for the third time and I think I will continue to come as I want to join the Army eventually. This event fills me with patriotism.” This was the first time for 76-year-old Krishna Aggarwal at the event, which he had been wanting to attend for last many years. Her four daughters and husband are working for the defence forces and she never got an opportunity to attend one. “I was born before independence so all such events fill me with pride,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/republic-day-celebrations-in-delhi-come-to-a-close/article33700912.ece
30 January 2021||New Delhi,||BJP condemns ‘resurgence of miscreants’ at borders||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Friday sought to condemn “the resurgence of miscreants and arson elements” on the Singhu and Ghazipur borders in addition to accusing Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) of “standing shoulder to shoulder” with them. Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta questioned as to why Mr. Kejriwal had not met policemen injured during the violence on Republic Day or spoken about the incident since. “The condition of many policemen remains critical, but Kejriwal has neither visited the injured security personnel yet nor condemned the incident. These 400 jawans are also sons and daughters of someone and are residents of Delhi,” he alleged. “Kejriwal, who calls himself the son of Delhi, thinks it is better to respect those who spread anarchy than to honour those who fight against such elements. This is the reason why when the police arrived to remove the miscreants peacefully, Kejriwal’s entire staff stood with the miscreants,” he also alleged. AAP and Congress stood in support of “miscreants” at protest sites, Mr. Gupta alleged, with Delhi government Ministers “facilitating them”. The stand of the Kejriwal government in respect to those who “disrespect the national flag” was an insult not only to Delhi, but the entire country, he also alleged.  The condition of many policemen remains critical, but Kejriwal has neither visited the injured security personnel yet nor condemned the incident Adesh Gupta Delhi BJP president||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/bjp-condemns-resurgence-of-miscreants-at-borders/article33700913.ece
30 January 2021||New Delhi,||Air quality to remain ‘very poor’ on weekend||The air quality of Delhi and Gurugram was in the “very poor” category and Noida’s was “severe” on Friday, according to CPCB data. The national capital’s air quality is not expected to improve much in the coming days. “An improvement in ventilation index is forecast for the next two days, AQI is likely to marginally improve to the middle to lower end of the very poor category for Saturday. AQI is forecast to marginally deteriorate towards the middle-end of the very poor category on January 31 and February 1,” said SAFAR.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/air-quality-to-remain-very-poor-on-weekend/article33700919.ece
30 January 2021||New Delhi,||‘Daily habits can lead to spinal ailments’||Association of Spine Surgeons of India (ASSI) on Friday said that everyday habits, such as prolonged sitting or standing, poor posture, carrying heavy bags, unsupervised or excessive physical training, are major contributors to spinal ailments. “Since the lifestyle is more sedentary now, you are sitting more, and people tend to slouch in chairs or bed. Especially during the COVID-19 crisis, people are working from home and since there is no proper work environment in most cases, it leads to more bad postures and that in turn, leads to spinal ailments and back pain,” said H.S. Chhabra, ASSI president and chief of Spine Services at Indian Spinal Injuries Centre, New Delhi. The ASSI on Friday launched a country-wide injury prevention and awareness programme and awareness about “spine-healthy lifestyle” and will partner with 1,000 institutions, including schools, colleges and other organisations. “It is not just mishaps or accidents that result in spinal injuries. Simple everyday habits such as poor posture, carrying heavy bags, inadequate furniture, unsupervised or excessive physical training or not wearing helmets are major contributors to injuries. Simple interventions, such as wearing seatbelts and helmets diligently, using ergonomic furniture in offices and schools and adoption of correct posture can go a long way in reducing burden of injuries and back pain. Apart from stressing on the need for using effective safety equipment, the awareness programme will also incorporate awareness on spine-healthy lifestyles, posture-correction techniques and exercise regimens,” said Gautam Zaveri, Joint Secretary of ASSI.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/daily-habits-can-lead-to-spinal-ailments/article33700916.ece
30 January 2021||New Delhi,||HC seeks response to plea by PETA||The Delhi High Court on Friday asked the Animal Welfare Board of India (AWBI) and the Central Zoo Authority (CZA) to respond to a plea by People for Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA), seeking to issue show-cause notices to several circuses and cancel their registration certificates due to alleged violations committed by them. A Bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli asked the AWBI and the CZA to file detailed replies within three weeks, and posted the case for further hearing on February 25. PETA submitted that as per the AWBI, only six circuses are functional now, but show-cause notices have been issued to only two of them. To this, the AWBI and the CZA said show-cause notices have been issued to all the six circuses and action is being taken against them. The plea was filed in a pending petition by PETA for protection of animals in circuses stranded across the country due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Another plea by Federation of Indian Animals Protection Organisation, seeking similar relief, is also pending before the High Court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/hc-seeks-response-to-plea-by-peta/article33700908.ece
30 January 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi reports 249 new virus cases, six more deaths||Delhi witnessed 249 new COVID-19 cases in the last 24 hours, taking the total number of cases to 6,34,773, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Friday. Also, six more deaths have been reported, taking the total number of deaths to 10,841. A total of 58,725 tests were done in the past 24 hours. 1,551 active cases  Of the total cases, 6,22,381 people have recovered and there are 1,551 active cases. The positivity rate of COVID-19 cases was 0.42% on Friday and the overall positivity till now was 5.98%, as per the bulletin. Out of the total 8,701 beds available for COVID-19 treatment in Delhi, 91.9% beds were vacant.  Also, there were 1,227 containment zones in the city as of Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/delhi-reports-249-new-virus-cases-six-more-deaths/article33700920.ece
30 January 2021||Pune,||Mumbai local train services to resume from February 1||The Maharashtra government on Friday extended the lockdown across the State till February 28. “The government is satisfied that Maharashtra is threatened with the spread of COVID-19, and therefore to take certain emergency measures to prevent and contain the spread of virus, it is expedient to extend the lockdown in the State further till February 28,” reads the order issued by Chief Secretary Sanjay Kumar, on behalf of the Governor. The order said activities already allowed and permitted from time to time shall be continued and earlier orders shall be aligned with the current directive and remain in force till February-end. At the same time, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray’s office said the general public in Mumbai city and the Mumbai Metropolitan Region would finally be permitted to travel in local trains from February 1. Mr. Kumar has asked the Chief General Managers of Western and Central Railways to allow local train commuters to travel as per the laid down schedule. The State government said it will request all establishments to stagger their work schedule so that employees can benefit from the new schedule. However, in a bid to manage large crowds of commuters, the government has fixed time slots in non-peak hours for the public to travel. Timings for commuters The services would operate in three slots: from the start of services for the day to 7 a.m., then from 12 noon to 4 p.m., and then again from 9 p.m. to the closure of services for the day, the order issued by Mr. Kumar stated. In between these timings, only those in essential services, such as frontline workers and healthcare staff, single women travellers, and those with a special pass from the State government, would be allowed to travel. Women have already been allowed access to the local train services since October last, after a request from the State to the Railway Minister. “My dear Mumbai citizens, for the convenience of all of you, the Mumbai local train will be started from February 1,” Union Railway Minister Piyush Goyal tweeted. He added, “I urge all of you to follow all necessary guidelines related to coronavirus during the journey. Any kind of negligence can become a problem for us and others as well. If you will be safe, then everyone travelling with you will be safe.” (With PTI inputs)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/mumbai-local-train-services-to-resume-from-february-1/article33700926.ece
30 January 2021||Pune,||Maharashtra sees slump in recoveries||Maharashtra saw a slump in recoveries on Friday, reporting 2,771 new COVID-19 cases as opposed to just 2,613 patients being discharged. With this, the State’s active case tally has marginally risen to 43,147. The total case tally has reached 20,21,184. Fifty-six fatalities saw the total death toll climb to 51,000. The cumulative recoveries stand at 19,25,800. While the State’s recovery rate is 95.28%, the case fatality stands at 2.52%. “Of 1,44,96,359 laboratory samples tested thus far, 20,15,524 (with the case positivity rate down to 13.94%) have returned positive with over 66,000 samples being tested in the last 24 hours,” said State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate. Pune reported more than 450 new cases to take its tally to 3,87,590. As per State Health Department figures, 21 deaths (of which 11 had occurred previously were only just reconciled) were reported to take the total death toll to 7,946. As per district administration figures, the active case tally, which had reduced below 4,800 a few days ago, has risen to cross the 5,000-mark while the recovery rate has dipped incrementally to 96.31%. Mumbai city reported 494 new cases to take its total case tally to 3,08,063, of which just 5,417 are active. Eight fatalities saw the city’s death toll reach 11,338. Nagpur district in Vidarbha reported more than 350 new cases, taking the total case tally to 1,35,278, of which 3,503 are currently active. Two deaths saw the total death toll reach 3,349. In western Maharashtra, Satara reported three deaths while 92 fresh cases saw the total case tally rise to 56,303, of which just 727 are active. Its death toll stands at 1817. Sangli reported just 21 cases and no deaths as the district’s tally reached 50,807, of which only 580 are active. Its death toll stands at 1,780. Kolhapur reported just 28 cases and zero fatalities as its total case tally reached 49,136, of which just 209 are active. The total death toll stands at 1,671. In north Maharashtra, Nashik district reported more than 100 cases and just one death as its total case tally reached 120,853, of which 1,180 are active. Its death toll stands at 1,991. Jalgaon reported 72 new cases and two deaths as its total case tally reached 57,384, of which only 501 are active, while its death toll stands at 1,476. Dr. Awate informed that currently, a total of 1,95,127 people across the State were in home quarantine and 2,771 were in institutional quarantine facilities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/maharashtra-sees-slump-in-recoveries/article33701163.ece
30 January 2021||Wuhan,||WHO team begins fieldwork in Wuhan to trace virus origins||Experts from the World Health Organization visited a Wuhan hospital on Friday as the fieldwork began in a closely watched coronavirus origins probe that will take in a food market presumed to be “ground zero” of the pandemic. The WHO investigation has been hobbled by delays, and there are fears over access and the strength of evidence a year after the virus emerged in the central Chinese city. The team met Chinese officials on Friday and then left their Wuhan hotel in a fleet of cars, trailed by a media pack reflecting the intense global scrutiny on a visit whose aim is to establish how the virus was transferred from animals to humans. The Xinhua hospital — where some of the earliest COVID-19 patients were admitted — is among the field visits, which will “include the Wuhan Institute of Virology, Huanan market, Wuhan CDC laboratory,” the WHO said in a tweet on Thursday — three sites now indelibly linked with the pandemic. The Huanan market — which remains boarded up — is believed to have been the first major cluster of infections, while former U.S. president Donald Trump had pushed an unsubstantiated theory that the virus escaped from a testing facility at the Wuhan Institute of Virology. The mission’s exact itinerary remains unclear — tweets from the WHO and its experts are so far the main source of information. The highly politicised mission had been beset by delays, with China refusing access until mid-January. China on Thursday warned the United States against “political interference” during a trip, after the White House demanded a “robust and clear” investigation. The WHO insists the probe will be tethered tightly to the science behind how the virus jumped to humans. Beijing is desperate to take the air out of the blame game and instead train attention on its handling and recovery from the outbreak. In a tweet on Thursday, WHO chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said he had had a “frank discussion” with China’s Health Minister Ma Xiaowei. “I asked that the international scientists get the support, access & data needed, and the chance to engage fully with their Chinese counterparts,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/who-team-begins-fieldwork-in-wuhan-to-trace-virus-origins/article33700621.ece
30 January 2021||COLOMBO,||Sri Lanka begins vaccine roll-out||Sri Lanka on  Friday  commenced its COVID-19 vaccination drive, a day after receiving a consignment of 5,00,000 doses of Covishield vaccine gifted by India. Three Army personnel and a senior doctor received the first jabs, marking the launch of the roll-out at six main hospitals in Sri Lanka’s Western Province. A total of 1,50,000 health workers and 120,000 members of the tri-forces, police and security forces, tasked with combating the coronavirus pandemic in the country, will be covered in the first round, the government has said. President Gotabaya Rajapaksa, who on Thursday received the vaccines at the Bandaranaike International Airport, thanked the people of India for their “generosity”. The Covishield vaccines, made in India, are the first doses of vaccine to arrive in Sri Lanka. China will donate 3,00,000 vaccine doses by mid-February, the Chinese Embassy here said. Colombo is also in talks with Russia to procure more vaccines. Speaking at the launch of Sri Lanka’s vaccine drive, Indian High Commissioner Gopal Baglay said international cooperation was key to fighting the pandemic. “We hope the vaccines will help open up the economy and also instil confidence in the minds of people,” he said. The vaccination drive that began on Friday coincides with a surge in COVID-19 cases in Sri Lanka. On Thursday, a total of 892 cases were reported. That is the highest number of daily cases so far. Sri Lanka has recorded 61,586 infections — about 6,854 active cases — and 297 fatalities as of Friday evening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/sri-lanka-begins-vaccine-roll-out/article33700616.ece
30 January 2021||Kabul,||U.S. is bombarding civilians in breach of Afghan deal: Taliban||The Taliban on Friday rejected Washington’s accusations that it had not lived up to its promises in Afghanistan, in turn claiming the U.S. was ‘bombarding civilians’. The U.S. signed a landmark deal with the insurgents last year, agreeing to withdraw its troops from the country in return for security guarantees after a stalemate on the battlefield. “The other side have violated the agreement, almost every day they are violating it,” Mohammad Naeem, a Taliban spokesman said. “They are bombarding civilians, houses and villages, and we have informed them from time to time, these are not just violations of the agreement but violations of human rights.” The U.S military has in recent months carried out air strikes against the Taliban fighters in defence of Afghan forces in some provinces. Taliban spokesman Zabihullah Mujahid added on Twitter that the allegations against the group were “unfounded” and that it was “fully committed” to the agreement. Pentagon spokesman John Kirby told reporters on Thursday that the Biden administration remains committed to the Taliban-U.S. deal and ending the war “in a responsible way”. However, he said, “the Taliban are not meeting their commitments to reduce violence, and to renounce their ties to al-Qaeda”. “We are still involved in trying to get a negotiated settlement,” he added. The agreement, signed in Doha last year, required the Taliban to halt attacks on U.S. forces, sharply decrease the level of violence in the country, and advance peace talks with the government in Kabul.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-is-bombarding-civilians-in-breach-of-afghan-deal-taliban/article33700617.ece
30 January 2021||NAYPYITAW,||Myanmar poll panel rejects fraud claims||Myanmar’s Election Commission rejected allegations by the military that fraud played a significant role in determining the outcome of November’s elections, in which Aung San Suu Kyi’s party won majority of seats. The decision, announced Thursday, came amid heightened tensions after the military, which had ruled Myanmar for five decades until 2015, refused to rule out the possibility of a coup if their complaints were ignored. Call for election review Aung San Suu Kyi’s National League for Democracy party captured 396 out of 476 seats in the November 8 polls, allowing them to form the government for five more years. The military-backed Union Solidarity and Development Party won 33 seats. The military has been calling on the government and the Union Election Commission to review the results. It says it has found 8.6 million irregularities in voter lists in 314 townships that could have let voters cast multiple ballots or commit other "voting malpractice,” but the Election Commission said there was no evidence to support these claims. On Tuesday, a military spokesperson declined to rule out a coup, saying the military would continue to file complaints about alleged irregularities in line with laws and the Constitution. Myanmar’s military chief Min Aung Hlaing on Wednesday said that the Constitution could be revoked if the laws are not being properly enforced. “... We all need to abide by the Constitution. If one does not follow the law, such law must be revoked. If it is the Constitution, it is necessary to revoke the Constitution,” he said. The UN released a statement saying the Secretary-General is following with great concern recent developments in Myanmar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/myanmar-poll-panel-rejects-fraud-claims/article33700613.ece
30 January 2021||Washington,||Biden taps nuclear deal veteran to resume negotiations with Iran||The new U.S. administration under Joe Biden has named Rob Malley, an architect of the 2015 nuclear deal with Iran, as its special envoy to resume talks with Tehran, defying pressure from hawks who accuse him of being too conciliatory toward the Islamic republic. Secretary of State Antony Blinken “is building a dedicated team, drawing from clear-eyed experts with a diversity of views,” State Department spokesman Ned Price said. Mr. Malley, a childhood friend of Mr. Blinken, has been serving as head of the International Crisis Group, an independent non-governmental organisation focused on conflict resolution. Before that, he was one of the chief negotiators on the 2015 nuclear deal reached by Iran and world powers, under which Tehran was promised economic relief for curbs in its contested nuclear programme. The deal was reached under Barack Obama.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/biden-taps-nuclear-deal-veteran-to-resume-negotiations-with-iran/article33700697.ece
30 January 2021||The Hague,||Pfizer vaccine not linked to deaths: EU regulator||The Pfizer/BioNTech coronavirus jab has no link to reported post-vaccination deaths and no new side effects, the EU’s medicines regulator said on Friday based on the first data from the vaccine’s rollout. The update by the Amsterdam-based European Medicines Agency (EMA) followed reports that dozens of mainly elderly people had died in Norway and other European countries after receiving a first shot of the vaccine. The EMA said it had looked at the deaths and “concluded that the data did not show a link to vaccination with Comirnaty (the name of the vaccine) and the cases do not raise a safety concern.” In its first safety update since the EU started its vaccination campaign in December, the watchdog said that overall, data “is consistent with the known safety profile of the vaccine, and no new side effects were identified.” “The benefits of Comirnaty in preventing COVID-19 continue to outweigh any risks, and there are no recommended changes regarding the use of the vaccine,” the EMA said. The frail and the elderly are first in line for vaccinations in many countries. Norway in particular registered 33 deaths among some 20,000 retirement home residents who had received their first dose of the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine. Concern grew as a number of countries, including France and also Denmark, Finland, Iceland and Sweden, gave similar reports. Oslo said earlier this month it had not established a link but recommended doctors consider the overall health of the most frail before giving them the jab. The EMA said that “given concerns which arose from Norway” it had reviewed reports of deaths of people of any age after receiving the jab. “In many cases concerning individuals above 65, progression of (multiple) pre-existing diseases seemed to be a plausible explanation for death,” it said. The EMA noted that clinical trials of the Pfizer vaccine had included people aged 75 and older. Nod to AstraZeneca The EMA authorised AstraZeneca’s vaccine for use in adults throughout the European Union on Friday, amid criticism the bloc is not moving fast enough to vaccinate its population. The regulator licensed the vaccine to be used in people 18 and over.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/pfizer-vaccine-not-linked-to-deaths-says-eu-regulator/article33700614.ece
30 January 2021||Beijing,||China executes former banker in graft case||China on Friday executed a former top banker accused of taking $260 million worth of bribes, as well as other forms of corruption and bigamy, state broadcaster CCTV reported. Lai Xiaomin, the former chairman of Huarong — one of China’s largest state-controlled asset management firms — was put to death by a court in the northern city of Tianjin, CCTV said. “The amount of bribes received by Lai Xiaomin was extremely large, the crime’s circumstances were particularly serious and the social impact was particularly severe,” CCTV quoted the Chinese Supreme People’s Court, which reviewed and approved the execution order, as saying. The report did not specify how Lai was executed, but said he was allowed to see close relatives before his death.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/china-executes-former-banker-in-graft-case/article33700610.ece
30 January 2021||Moscow,||EU--Russia-Navalny||A Moscow court on Friday considered a request to put several allies of Russian opposition leader Alexei Navalny under house arrest as authorities sought to stymie more protests over the jailing of the anti-corruption investigator. Tens of thousands of people demonstrated across Russia last weekend to to seek the release of Mr. Navalny.AP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/eu-russia-navalny/article33700612.ece
30 January 2021||PESHAWAR,||AS--Pakistan-Afghanistan||A fugitive militant leader from Pakistan who carried a $3 million U.S. bounty for alleged terrorist activities was killed by a roadside bomb in neighboring Afghanistan along with two associates, an Afghan official said on Friday. The commander, Manghal Bagh, led an outlawed militant group called Lashkar-e-Islam. The group had frequently targeted Pakistani troops in the country's northwest until the mid-2010s.AP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/as-pakistan-afghanistan/article33700611.ece
30 January 2021||Moscow,||Putin signs off on extension of New START treaty||Russian President Vladimir Putin on Friday signed off on legislation extending a key nuclear pact between Russia and the U.S. by five years. “Russian President Vladimir Putin signed the law ‘on the ratification of the extension of the deal between Russia and the USA’,” the Kremlin said, referring to New START, the last remaining arms reduction pact between the former Cold War rivals.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/putin-signs-off-on-extension-of-new-start-treaty/article33700695.ece
30 January 2021||ANKARA,||EU--Turkey-Iran||Turkey hopes the U.S. will return to the nuclear deal with Iran under U.S. President Joe Biden’s administration, Turkish Foreign Minister Mevlut Cavusoglu said after meeting his Iranian counterpart in Istanbul on Friday. “I hope that with the Biden administration, the U.S. will return to this agreement and cooperation on the (nuclear) issue is restored,” Mr. Cavusoglu said. “In this way, God willing, the sanctions imposed on Iran are lifted.”AP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/eu-turkey-iran/article33700619.ece
30 January 2021||January 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Casting the net in a sea of conflict||Samson Darwin was a toddler when his family fled their home in Jaffna in the 1990s, to escape the civil war that was tearing apart Sri Lanka’s north and east. Mandapam camp in Ramanathapuram became their “home”. Away from incessant bombing and destruction, they thought they had another chance at life. Last week, 28-year-old Darwin’s body was brought back home after he and three other fishermen died in the Palk Strait, in Sri Lankan waters. Darwin’s wife (they got married just a year ago) had given birth to their first child weeks before that, and just as their new life as a family was about to begin, his life ended. Darwin fled the civil war nearly 25 years ago but the adversity that began chasing him then came a full circle that fatal night. “After escaping the battle in Sri Lanka, we came here [Ramanathapuram]... but Darwin died in the hands of the Sri Lankan Navy,” a relative says, requesting anonymity. He echoes the grief that pervades their village following the tragic death of Darwin, along with A. Mesiya (30), V. Nagaraj (52) and S. Senthil Kumar (32), all hailing from Ramanathapuram, on the night of January 18. Outraged by the incident, Tamil Nadu fishermen have accused the Sri Lankan Navy, which was patrolling the seas for “poaching” fishing trawlers, of killing the four men. The Sri Lankan Navy, on the other hand, maintains that the fishermen and their boat “sank” while “resisting arrest” by a Navy vessel. The Indian government conveyed its “strong protest” to Sri Lanka, and insisted it adopt a humanitarian approach in dealing with fishermen. Sri Lanka’s Fisheries Minister Douglas Devananda, a Tamil from Jaffna, set up a three-member committee tasked with finding a “permanent solution” to the Palk Bay fisheries conflict, affecting fishermen of Tamil Nadu and northern Sri Lanka. None of the official statements mentions a probe being sought or agreed to. The four Tamil Nadu fishermen and the Sri Lankan Naval personnel alone were witnesses to what happened late that night, mid-sea, and only one side is alive to tell their story. A long-festering problem “What wrong did my brother do? He was unarmed and he has been brutally killed,” says A. Simon, Mesiya’s older brother, in his thatch-roofed hut in Thangachimadam, a predominantly fishing village in Ramanathapuram. “Whenever we set out fishing we pray that we return home safely, irrespective of whether the catch is good or not. The innocent fishermen’s end is horrifying.” That too at sea, to which their lives are so intimately tied. Fisherfolk wake up to the sound of the sea, head to the waters for a living, come back to the shore, catch some sleep at odd hours, again with the reassuring sound of the waves. “After fishing for about 30 hours, we return to the shore. On many days, the Sri Lankan Navy, under the pretext of surveillance, chases us. Sometimes they throw stones at our boats or hurl empty liquor bottles,” says another fisherman mourning Mesiya’s death. Fishermen’s representatives in Tamil Nadu accuse the Sri Lankan Navy of injuring hundreds of fishermen over the years. “About 300 of our fishermen have died in the Palk Strait,” says P. Sesu Raja, Rameswaram-based leader of a fishermen’s association engaged mostly in bottom trawling. The Sri Lankan Navy has consistently denied the mounting allegations — through the years of the war and since it ended in 2009. While the cause of death of the deceased fishermen has never been established in a court of law, the fact that these young fishermen died at sea remains a grim reminder of the human cost of the Palk Bay fisheries conflict. Their distressing death, when they were out at sea to earn a day’s living, is yet another stark reflection of a long-festering problem — of depleting marine resources in the Palk Bay, competing livelihoods of fishermen, and a solution that remains elusive, as the fishermen on both sides are unable to agree on it. Tamil Nadu fishermen are not a homogenous group with the same interests. They are part of a complex ecosystem of moneyed and often politically influential owners of trawler fleets who engage other fishermen; of those who practise traditional fishing in their small, mechanised boats; and thousands of poor fishermen who have only their labour to sell in order to survive. Depending on who you ask, a different aspect of the problem comes to light. Like Sesu Raja, most owners of the 5,000-plus registered trawlers say that the Sri Lankan Navy “attacked our fishermen”, arrested them, or seized their vessels. Daily wage fishermen speak of the enormous pressure on them to risk their lives and go as far as it takes to get a decent catch that would ensure a day’s earnings in full. Arockia Sesu, 47, from Thangachimadam, who has been fishing for 29 years, says he makes about Rs. 700 on a good day. With a family of five, including his elderly mother and two children, making both ends meet is no easy task. “Earlier, it was just poverty which we had to battle. But in recent years, we also have to safeguard ourselves from the Sri Lankan Navy’s aggression,” he says. Straying in international waters Despite the GPS units attached to their boats, the fishermen often stray into Sri Lanka’s territorial waters, across the International Maritime Boundary Line, mutually agreed upon by the neighbouring countries in the mid-1970s. India embraced mechanised fishing using bottom trawlers, after its fishing fleet was “modernised” between the 1950s and the early 1970s, with millions of dollars from the Norwegian government. In the fishing method of bottom trawling, fishermen drag large nets from the vessels through the sea, virtually scooping out young fishes, shrimps and other organisms from the seabed indiscriminately. Some use thangoosi valai or monofilament nets, widely considered harmful for marine species. The catch, using these methods, has proved significantly higher, boosting the State’s exports. Data from the Fisheries Department show that Tamil Nadu exports about 1.28 lakh tonnes of sea food, amounting to Rs. 5,591 crore. For the export-oriented governments at the Centre and State, and profit-driven owners of trawlers, the practice gradually became an addiction despite the serious environmental implications along the Tamil Nadu coast, periodically highlighted by scientists. Small-scale fishermen, too, bear the brunt. In Pudukkottai district, further up the coast, small-scale fishermen spoke of how the trawlers have struck a huge blow to their livelihoods. “They [trawlers] return with huge catches thus depleting the marine resources and depriving the smaller mechanised boat fishermen of Pudukkottai district of good catch,” said B. Balamurugan, president of the Mechanised Boats Association in Jagadapattinam, from where over 200 mechanised boats using traditional fishing practices operate. The trawlers are not just at the centre of an international conflict but have also bred local conflicts, points out Chinna Adaikkalam, President of the Kottaipattinam Mechanised Boat Owners Association. “The longer-sized and higher capacity Karaikal trawlers have resorted to long durations of fishing, for almost 15 days, leaving hardly anything for us in our seas,” he says. Intuitively chasing fish, Tamil Nadu fishermen employed in the larger, mechanised trawlers regularly veer into Sri Lankan waters. The ecological damage is comparatively less on the Sri Lankan side because most Sri Lankan fishermen do not engage in bottom trawling. It is the prospect of a bigger catch that pushes Tamil Nadu fishermen to risk encountering arrest by the Sri Lankan Navy or worse, death. Strained livelihoods and ties Over time, Sri Lankan fishermen grew more vocal about the adverse effects of bottom trawling along their coastline. Their catches fell, and livelihoods were threatened. Fishermen on both sides speak of a time when they shared cordial ties. “We would call each other machaan and maapilai [brother-in-law and son-in-law]. We would share our porridge, karuvaadu [dried fish] and beedis. They would give us cigarettes and biscuits,” Sesu Raja recalls. Sri Lankan fishermen too reminisce about a time when they took an overnight boat journey to catch the latest M.G. Ramachandran film in Rameswaram and return the following day. But the Sri Lankan civil war and the growing use of mechanised bottom trawlers in India have strained their ties. For a good part of the nearly three-decade civil war, fishermen in the northern Jaffna peninsula and the Vanni were barred access to the sea, as the Sri Lankan Navy, along with the armed forces, was taking on the LTTE. It is when the war ended in 2009 that the fisherfolk, most of them displaced in the years of strife, returned to their homes, and gradually began to rebuild their lost livelihoods. However, their return to sea was far from smooth: they found their catch dwindling after Indian trawlers ravaged their seas at least thrice a week, and their nets, often bought with huge loans, getting caught and damaged under the trawlers. The Sri Lankan Navy stepped up surveillance, arresting fishermen and seizing trawlers “trespassing” into Sri Lankan waters. Since 2010, more than 3,000 Indian fishermen, all from Tamil Nadu, have been arrested by the Navy. As of today, 12 fishermen and more than 60 trawlers are in Sri Lankan custody. The issue has remained a sensitive bilateral issue, but the Central, State and provincial governments in India and Sri Lanka have achieved little success, besides “paying lip service”, fishermen note with distrust. Sri Lanka banned bottom trawling in 2017, and in 2018, imposed large fines on foreign vessels fishing illegally in its waters. While arrested fishermen have been released periodically, at times after a considerable diplomatic push by New Delhi, the 60-odd trawlers seized since remain in custody. Their owners in India are yet to come to Sri Lanka, to appear in court and pay the fine, before reclaiming the vessels, say officials in Sri Lanka’s Fisheries Department. Options tried and tested Talks at the governmental level, as well as among fishermen, have not resulted in a durable solution. With heightened surveillance and increased arrests making news in late 2020, India and Sri Lanka resumed bilateral talks, after a three-year gap, in December 2020, through a Joint Working Group with senior officials from both sides. Apart from government-level talks, fishermen leaders from both countries have held discussions several times since 2004. They met at least six times between 2010 and 2015 – in both India and Sri Lanka – when the Palk Bay conflict intensified. Tamil Nadu fishermen could not keep their promise of “phasing out” trawlers, and also refused to agree to Sri Lankan fishermen’s demand that bottom trawling be fully stopped as a goodwill gesture. Talks remain deadlocked since. “It is not possible to find a solution to the five-decades-old vexatious issue in two or three sittings. No follow-up action has been taken to resume talks for so long. Governments are receptive and react only when fishermen are killed or arrested in Sri Lankan waters,” says U. Arulanandam, Tamil Nadu’s representative of the Alliance for the Release of Innocent Fishermen, a long-time activist based in Pamban, Ramanathapuram. While a section of fishermen in Pudukkottai and Ramanathapuram districts is for restarting talks, fisher leaders in Sri Lanka remain sceptical. “We are really pained by the recent death of Indian fishermen. We are all fishermen first, only then Indian or Sri Lankan. We fully understand their suffering, we are in solidarity with them and want to put an end to this,” says K. Rajachandran, who leads a fisher cooperative in Karainagar, a small island off the Jaffna peninsula. At the same time, he calls for more sincerity in trying to come up with a solution. “I have been for several rounds of these talks. Despite many assurances to phase out trawlers, they continued coming in trawlers very close to our shore. If they agree to use small boats and traditional fishing methods, we are more than willing to come to the table to work out an arrangement to share our resources responsibly. That is the only way our future generations can live,” he says, insisting that stopping the use of trawlers be a pre-condition for future talks. Unlike the state, fisher leaders do not talk in terms of invisible boundary lines in the sea, or the law that deems their fishing “illegal, unreported and unregulated”. They appear more inclined towards a humane and practical arrangement that will address their short-term concerns of securing their livelihoods, as well as the long-term interest of preserving the marine organisms in the Palk Bay. “The use of bottom trawlers has to be stopped fully. Northern fishermen here, whose livelihoods were devastated by a long-drawn civil war, are frustrated that despite their struggle over many years, the problem of bottom trawling by Tamil Nadu has not ended,” says Ahilan Kadirgamar, senior lecturer at the University of Jaffna, who researches fisherfolk’s livelihoods in Sri Lanka’s war-affected region. “There could be more rounds of talks and a promise of a permanent solution, but how can you really resolve this crisis without addressing the fundamental problem that is bottom trawling,” he asks. Further, the Indian trawlers have spawned a fleet of relatively smaller, but still destructive trawlers in Jaffna, Rajachandran notes with concern. “We don’t oppose trawlers because they are from India. We oppose trawlers from Jaffna [there are some 500] as well. It is the destructive practice we are against, not the fishermen engaging in it.” Some others like Annalingam Annarasa, leader of the federation of fisher cooperative societies in Jaffna, want to give talks another chance. “Honestly, this is not an issue between two countries, or one between the Tamil Nadu fishermen and the Sri Lankan Navy. It is fundamentally an issue threatening the livelihoods of Tamil fishermen in both India and Sri Lanka. We need to work together with mutual understanding and solidarity,” says Annarasa. “We need to form an alliance with small-scale fishermen in Tamil Nadu and together raise awareness about the dire consequences of bottom trawling. That could be a starting point for talks.” Solution in sight? Meanwhile, a project of the Indian government, aimed at weaning Tamil Nadu fishermen off trawlers and diverting them to deep-sea fishing methods, took off in 2017, but has hardly progressed as planned. Both New Delhi and Tamil Nadu, implementing the Rs. 1,600 crore initiative, hoped to replace at least 2,000 trawlers with deep sea fishing boats with long lines and gill nets. However, less than a tenth of that target has been achieved, The Hindu reported in December. According to Johny Tom Varghese, Project Director Palk Bay and Additional Director (Fisheries) in Tamil Nadu, deep sea fishing will eventually be lucrative, though it is capital-intensive. “A fisherman who invests his money in a deep sea fishing boat can break even in about 18 months. We are training them. We have signed 103 agreements with individuals under the scheme,” he says. Those grappling with the shift from trawlers to deep sea vessels are also confronted with rising costs. In Sesu Raja’s view, the 70% subsidy, together from the Centre and State, for the deep sea fishing boats, is insufficient. “The governments had worked out the cost at Rs. 80 lakh per boat, while it is almost Rs. 1.20 crore today,” he observes. Pointing to the scheme’s “very slow progress,” Arulanandam says, “If it is implemented within a year or two, I hope it can offer a possible solution. But the governments should make sure of buying back all existing trawlers.” The fishermen in Kottaipattinam and Jagadapattinam villages in Pudukkottai too complain that while the government is taking steps to introduce deep sea fishing, the old boats are yet to be weeded out. The proposal to shift fishermen of Kottaipattinam, Jagadapattinam and Rameswaram towards deep sea fishing has not picked up, fishermen say. There have not been many takers for fish farming in the Gulf of Mannar, either. The hype following the successful demonstration of fish farming by the Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute in Mandapam was short-lived. The Fisheries Department seized mechanised boats used for pair trawling on several occasions, but the punitive actions could not eliminate the practice fully. The deep divisions among various fishing groups and frequent agitations have put the brakes on enforcing strict regulations, according to fishermen. As the campaign in election-bound Tamil Nadu picks up, the issues of fishermen, who constitute a sizeable electorate in coastal districts, will take centre stage again. “The real challenge for fishermen on both sides is to keep this issue in focus even after the polls,” says Annarasa, reflecting a similar sentiment heard in Tamil Nadu about “not allowing politicians to exploit our situation.” At one level, the problem at hand is historical, complex and layered. At another, it is about sustaining and sharing finite marine resources in the Palk Strait, a narrow strip of water, just over 100 km at its widest, separating south India and northern Sri Lanka. As fishermen repeatedly point out, at the heart of this persisting conflict is their insecurity about their livelihoods and futures. Elections come and go, but that is yet to be decisively addressed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/casting-the-net-in-a-sea-of-conflict/article33700609.ece
30 January 2021||January 30 2021 00:00 IST,||A Budget blueprint for difficult times||As the country prepares to enter a new financial year after an ominous and gloomy 2020-21, there are great expectations about green shoots and the shape of the economic recovery. The havoc wreaked by the novel coronavirus pandemic on people’s lives and livelihoods is deep and enormous. The impact of the COVID-19 induced lockdown cannot be understood merely through headline macro-economic numbers of Gross Domestic Product (GDP), stock market indices, industrial activity indices or any such measure. COVID-19 has destroyed lives and incomes; it has also ruptured our social fabric. It has exacerbated the inequality between the haves and the have-nots, which can turn into a permanent scar if not remedied urgently. It is in this context that we must assess the current state of the economy and evaluate further action for the immediate future. Missed opportunities The sudden onslaught and rapid spread of COVID-19 have devastated most nations. Yet, we believe India could have done better. A better planned lockdown by being sensitive to India’s unique conditions of a large migrant and informal workforce could have reduced the deep distress in the labour market. A responsible and generous fiscal aid package would have soothed millions of struggling families, brought food to starving homes and contained widening inequality. The Reserve Bank of India’s actions to supply enough liquidity were laudable, but they were inadequate. One of the most telling signs of the economic desperation of Indian families was — and is — the demand for work under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) programme. After being mocked by the Prime Minister, MGNREGA, by providing work at minimum wages to anyone that asked, has proved to be the only safety net for hundreds of millions of Indian households during these times of severe distress. Nearly 120 million people have asked for work under MGNREGA this financial year, the highest in the history of the programme. Total work demanded under MGNREGA in 2020-21 is 53% higher than last year. The optimism about headline economic recovery in the last few months seems hollow when we realise that nearly 35 million people have requested MGNREGA work in the months of December and January, the highest in the last six months. Such continued high demand for MGNREGA work at subsistence wages is a clear sign that there is no true economic recovery, let alone a ‘V’ or any other letter shaped. Even as hundreds of millions of Indians were struggling with loss of jobs and MGNREGA work, India’s stock markets were exuberant and reached record levels. India’s stock market indices are at the highest levels ever. The top 50 companies increased their market wealth by nearly Rs. 3,00,000 crore ($40 billion) during this time. The excess liquidity pumped in by central banks is finding its way to asset markets, including India’s stock markets, driving it to unreasonable highs. If the stock market exuberance were to benefit the broader economy and most Indians, then it is welcome. Alas, the benefits of rising stock markets have accrued only to a minuscule few. The curative economic measures of governments in response to the COVID-19 pandemic may have unintentionally caused one of the worst phases of economic disparity between the rich and the poor in most nations. Threats and weaknesses Soaring asset prices and supply shocks have also led to a rise in consumer price inflation. Rising inflation will inevitably force the RBI to tighten interest rates or at least pause the lowering of rates. A tighter monetary policy carries the risk of slowing down  private investment, with the consequential effect of lacklustre growth in jobs and wages. India’s macro economy is, thus, precariously poised and needs deft handling. The external sector could be a potential saviour of India’s economy as global trade grows from its post-COVID-19 lows. Unfortunately, however, the government has shot itself in the foot by reversing its trade policy suddenly and turned inwards toward import substitution, quantitative restrictions, non-tariff barriers and shunning trade alliances. Over the past three decades, a surge in labour intensive exports has been the predominant driver of growth in jobs and wages for millions of high- and low-skilled Indians. The slowdown in exports and the misplaced aversion to two-way external trade will further harm the livelihoods of many Indians. India’s fiscal policy response to the COVID-19 shock has been underwhelming. The lack of a basic minimum income safety net to cope with the shock has plunged millions of families into poverty. As of December, 12 million adult Indians have dropped out of the labour force compared to last year when, given India’s demographic profile, there should have been a net addition to the labour force. Unemployment in the formal sector too is very high. Most supply-side measures such as the government’s corporate tax cuts, loan moratoriums, and guaranteed credit schemes seem to have helped corporates to boost their profits and reduce their debt. They have hardly been used to make new investments or create jobs or increase wages. Besides, in continuation of previous policy catastrophes (demonetisation, muddled Goods and Services Tax), the government has sought to thrust ill-thought policies such as the controversial farm laws on the nation, with no consultation or discussions. As a result, the lone bright spot in the economy thus far — agriculture — has also been wrecked with rising anger among farmers, confusion over farm produce procurement, doubts over the continuation of Minimum Support Price, and a loss of trust between farmers and the government. The other fiscal measure to aid the needy is to embark on a large-scale public investment programme that can stimulate economic activity, create jobs and revive demand. However, the government’s fiscal situation is bleak. The government had budgeted to collect tax revenues of Rs. 16-lakh crore in 2020-21. Eight months into the year, the government has been able to collect only Rs. 7-lakh crore in tax revenues at the end of November 2020. In contrast, the government had budgeted to spend Rs. 30-lakh crore this financial year and is on track to fulfilling, and even possibly exceeding, its expenditure budget. We believe that the government was right to not cut back on expenditure despite falling revenues during a time of unprecedented crisis, though we may differ on the priorities of expenditure. Therefore, India’s fiscal deficit is bound to rise significantly. We can live with it provided there are smart responses to inflation and future borrowing. The non-negotiables The government’s task is cut out. Given the reality of an unequal economic recovery, a misconceived trade policy and a perilous fiscal situation, the government will have to unveil its economic plan for the next financial year and the two remaining years of its term. There are some non-negotiables in economic planning for the next year. The COVID-19 pandemic has exposed the multiple lacunae in India’s public health infrastructure and served a stern warning that nothing is more important than increasing health-care expenditure and ramping up the health infrastructure. The central government’s Ministry of Health and Family Welfare’s budget has to increase from the current levels of roughly Rs. 70,000 crore (2% of total expenditure in 2020-21) to at least Rs. 1,00,000 crore. Since May 2020, India’s borders have been under threat by the Chinese. Any weakness will invite a war. India must immediately shore up its defence preparedness and be ready to defend its borders. India’s defence expenditure as a share of GDP has been falling. The government must increase defence expenditure from the current level of 1.6% of nominal GDP to 3% of nominal GDP in the next year, keeping in mind that the GDP will be lower than the level attained in 2019-20. There is no credible evidence yet that bankers are willing to lend and borrowers — especially corporates — are willing to make fresh investments. A rising interest rate environment, a financial sector choked with record non-performing loans and weak consumption demand implies that a pick up in private investment cannot be assured. Hence, public investment must step in to do the heavy lifting and pull the economy from its current dismal state. Expanded public investment can provide jobs and stimulate demand, the two most pressing needs of the country today. The central government’s capital expenditure must be increased significantly from the level of Rs. 4 lakh crore (14% of total expenditure) in 2020-21 to at least 20%-25% of total expenditure. A basic income safety net Any increase in the government’s public investment will take time to translate into jobs and incomes for large numbers of the labour force. So, there is an immediate need for a basic income safety net for the bottom half of India’s families for a six-month period, similar to the Congress party’s NYAY (or Nyuntam Aay Yojana/Minimum Income Support Programme) idea. We believe that an unconditional monthly cash transfer to the needier segments of the population will be the most efficient way to alleviate their miseries fastest. The Budget that will be presented on Monday should be evaluated in this context and not as another routine Budget. Fiscal deficit and the threat of international ratings cannot dictate India’s economic policy in current times of deep distress when lives, livelihoods and the nation’s security are at stake. The situation is so grim that it is not the time to experiment or play loose. Given the dire situation and the government’s penchant for rash policy announcements without a due consultative process, it is best to self-impose a moratorium on new laws, ordinances or bills for the next one year. We simply cannot afford to get distracted when the economic situation needs full and exclusive attention. For the sake of the nation’s future, we hope the government will embark on steering the economy in the right direction. Dr. Manmohan Singh is a former Prime Minister of India. P. Chidambaram is a former Finance Minister of India. Praveen Chakravarty is a senior office-bearer of the Congress party||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-budget-blueprint-for-difficult-times/article33700602.ece
30 January 2021||January 30 2021 00:00 IST,||A champion of science, pro-poor technology||The year 1910 was very significant for India and science. This was the year two great Indian stars, the astrophysicist, Dr. Subrahmanyan Chandrasekhar, or SC, and C. Subramaniam, or CS, were born. Dr. Chandrasekhar was concerned about processes of importance in the evolution of stars in the universe. Mr. Subramaniam was concerned about the problem of food security in India. He sowed the seeds of the Green Revolution in Indian agriculture. Dr. Chandrasekhar explored space and propounded the concept of black holes, while Mr. Subramaniam championed the cause of science and technology to solve societal problems. The science of the universe was the call of Dr. Chandrasekhar. Science for humanity was the call of Mr. Subramaniam. And today, January 30, is the birth anniversary of Mr. Subramaniam, an architect of public policy for Indian science and of the ‘Green Revolution’ in the country. In addition to the above, CS championed the cause of planned public investments in science. This year, 2021, is significant for another reason — it is the golden jubilee year of the founding of India’s Ministry of Science and Technology. CS had an abiding trust in science and believed that technology alone could offer solutions to the problems faced by society. He called for the practice of science celebrated not only by other scientists but also by citizens and humanity. Food sufficiency goal In the grammar of life, the spirit of Mr. Subramaniam continues to live on a high moral ground. If one looks for the trademarks of CS, they are: superordinate national goals, probity in public life and institutional mechanisms. The Ministry of Science and Technology bears testimony to his lived life. When India faced the reality of ship-to-mouth status in the 1960s — when a few million tonnes of grain were imported — a superordinate goal that India became self-sufficient in food in five years was set. The goal was realised and has been sustained since then. After the Green Revolution, the site used for storing food grains (given in aid by the U.S. Government under Public Law 480) became the Technology Bhavan that continues to house the Ministry of Science and Technology; it serves as a reminder to scientists that the purpose of public investments in science must include its duty to ensure social and public good. Our generation is a beneficiary of the long-term impacts of CS’s several contributions to education, agriculture, science and technology to name a few. He was one of the architects of modern India and relied on evidence-based approaches in decision making. Transparency and probity were his powerful tools. The blueprint for linking science and technology to the development path of India was cast by CS even before the formation of the dedicated Science and Technology Ministry. He was a rare combination of being a visionary and a missionary at the same time, and Indian science remains a beneficiary. The agro foundation He realised that the economic freedom of every citizen of India was heavily reliant on the 4Es: Education, Environment, Economy and Empowerment of our farmers. The National Agro Foundation (NAF) was his gift to the nation on his 90th birthday. NAF, in its journey of 21 years, has lived up to his ideals. It institutionalised his will through farmer-centric programmes. In today’s world, rare are leaders like him. They did not live for themselves and their immediate families. They did not work for fame or glory. They sought no positional power. They practised the principles enshrined in civilisational legacies. They were rooted in culture with an agility to embrace changes in real time, with science and technology playing change functions. Mr. Subramaniam was a leader among leaders and remains a living role model for generations to come. No words of praise can fully capture the value of a life well lived. Today is the 111th birth anniversary of CS. It is also a year since the first case of COVID-19 was reported in India, in Kerala. The novel coronavirus pandemic has pushed millions of people below the poverty line. The best way to pay tribute to a patriot like Mr. Subramaniam is to connect to science and see to it that it brings succour to the poor. He was a revered promoter of scientific temper and a shining Ratna of Bharat. His call for “science for [the] economic freedom of humanity” echoes loudly on his birth anniversary. May his voice for pro-poor technology be heard and worked upon. T. Ramasami was Secretary, Department of Science and Technology||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-champion-of-science-pro-poor-technology/article33700605.ece
30 January 2021||January 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Wide aisle||The government and the Opposition are headed on a collision course in the Budget session of Parliament, with the latter planning to move a joint motion demanding a repeal of the three laws that are agitating farmers in much of the country. The confrontation over these laws is a legacy of the last session when they were passed without detailed and proper consultation with political parties, experts and farmer representatives. The session began with around 20 Opposition parties boycotting the President’s address to a joint sitting of Parliament. BSP President Mayawati belatedly announced her party’s decision to also stay away as a mark of protest. The delay clearly outlined her intention to keep a distance from the Opposition bloc, which among others has the Congress and the Samajwadi Party. The boycott indicated a worsening of the relationship between the government and the Opposition. In January 2020, the Opposition had attended the President’s address wearing black bands. The last time the Opposition boycotted the President’s Address was in November 2019 to commemorate the Constitution Day. President Ram Nath Kovind said the government would keep the farm Bills on hold as per a Supreme Court directive but did not indicate any rethink. The government has advantages over the Opposition, in terms of the numerical strength in both Houses of Parliament. With the Tamil Nadu and West Bengal Assembly elections round the corner, two key Opposition parties, the DMK and the Trinamool Congress, are expected to be largely absent, further reducing the Opposition’s strength. The Opposition, despite its united front on the first day of the session, has a record of disintegrating in the face of the BJP’s manoeuvring in previous sessions. There will be discussion on the Motion of Thanks to the President and later on the Budget. As of now there are no indications of the Opposition skipping these events. In legislative business, recent ordinances such as the Arbitration and Conciliation (Amendment) Ordinance, 2020, which has provisions to deal with domestic and international arbitration and defines the law for conducting conciliation proceedings, and the Jammu and Kashmir Reorganisation (Amendment) Ordinance, 2021, which is for merging the J&K cadre of All India Services Officers such as the IAS, IPS and the Indian Forest Service with the Arunachal Pradesh, Goa, Mizoram Union Territory (AGMUT) cadre, will have to get a parliamentary nod. The government draws its legitimacy from a parliamentary majority, but democratic conduct is more than enforcing the will of the majority. The government’s conduct in Parliament and outside, where its critics are facing the strong arm of the state machinery, should meet the high standards India has set for itself as a democracy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/wide-aisle/article33700596.ece
30 January 2021||January 30 2021 00:00 IST,||In search of malice||The registration of cases against some senior journalists and Congress MP Shashi Tharoor for their “misleading” social media posts on the Republic Day violence during the farmers’ protests in Delhi, by the U.P. and M.P. police is an instance of fishing for malice where there is none. The Gautama Buddha Nagar police have clearly gone overboard in their response to tweets that reflected an early, and factually incorrect, piece of information that a farmer who had died during the tractor rally in Delhi had fallen to a police bullet. Later reports said he had died when a tractor overturned during the protests. The police have invoked the offences of sedition, conspiracy, promotion of enmity between different sections, and breach of harmony between groups. Besides, they have sought to portray it as a threat to national security and an attempt to instigate violence. A similar FIR has been filed on the basis of a complaint in Bhopal, but it invokes only sections relating to promotion of enmity and ill-will. It is apparent, and also strange, that the complainants and the police have sought to link the violence on January 26 with the circulation of a piece of misleading information for a short period. For one thing, the clashes between some of the protesters and the police had already started when the lone death among the protesters occurred; and, second, the position was clarified in a short while. As the Editors’ Guild of India has pointed out, it was natural for journalists to report emerging details on a day of protest and action at a time when several reports were coming from eyewitnesses on the ground and the police. It is a matter of concern that there is an attempt to portray these early versions as intentionally malicious. There is little surprise in the attempt by the police to invoke Section 124A of the IPC (sedition) at the slightest pretext. It is part of the now-familiar practice of weaving a narrative of an imagined threat to national security whenever some sections of the police get an opportunity to slap criminal cases against journalists and dissenters seen as critical of the current establishment. The violence that marred the protests that day provided them with the opportune backdrop necessary to file a sedition case. An exasperating part of this narrative is that all those who had put out similar information through their social media handles have been deemed to be acting in concert, and even participating in the same conspiracy. Hence, the inclusion of Section 120B, the conspiracy provision in the penal code. There is little doubt that the registration of cases in two States different from the place where the farmer-protester’s death occurred indicates an attempt to build a narrative that media misreporting led to some of the violence that day. It also shows a tendency not to miss an opportunity to harass and intimidate journalists.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/in-search-of-malice/article33700597.ece
30 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Core sector output shrank 1.3% in Dec.||Output from India’s eight core sectors contracted 1.3% in December 2020, with electricity and coal the only two sectors recording positive growth. This is the third month in a row that core sectors’ output declined, with revised estimates for September 2020 suggesting that output had grown by 0.6% in the month compared to provisional estimates of a 0.8% contraction in the month. September’s marginal uptick was preceded by six successive months of contraction in the core sectors. Upward revision The Office of the Economic Adviser in the Department of Promotion of Internal Trade and Investment also revised upwards the indices for October and November 2020, based on updated data. Now, the core sectors’ output is estimated to have shrunk by just 0.9% in October, compared to a 2.5% decline estimated earlier. Similarly, core sector output in November had contracted by 1.4% compared to the 2.6% dip projected earlier. Coal output recorded positive growth for the fifth month in a row, albeit at a moderate 2.2% in December 2020. Electricity production grew for the fourth successive month, at 4.2%. Cement contracts 9.7% Cement production which had grown only once this financial year, at 3.2% in October, recorded a sharp 9.7% decline in the month of December. Overall, core sectors have contracted by 10.1% in the April to December period, with fertilisers the only sector to record positive growth over the year, of a modest 3%. Cement output over this period fell by 18.3%, followed by steel production which has declined 16.7%. Economists said the core sector numbers ‘temper the exuberance’ generated by upticks in several other leading economic indicators in December. “Both steel and cement recorded a deterioration in the pace of year-on-year contraction in December 2020 relative to the previous month, which suggests that caution is warranted in the assessment of the strength of the incipient economic recovery,” said Aditi Nayar, principal economist at ICRA Limited. ‘Setbacks expected’ “We continue to expect intermittent setbacks at a sectoral level, as the economy attempts to regain pre-Covid normalcy in a sustained manner,” she added. “Based on the plateau in the core sector data, juxtaposed with the uptick in auto production trends and recovery in non-oil merchandise exports, we expect the Index of Industrial Production (IIP) to rebound to a modest growth of 0.5-1.5% in December 2020, trailing the level seen in October 2020,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/core-sector-output-shrank-13-in-dec/article33700584.ece
30 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Businesses must ramp up R&D spending to boost innovation’||To become the third-largest economy in terms of GDP at current dollar rates, India needs to significantly ramp up investment in R&D, driven by the business sector, according to the Economic Survey. India is currently the fifth-largest economy and lags behind most other large economies on most indicators of innovation. “R&D investment is a key input in innovation,” the Survey said. “India needs greater thrust on innovation to catapult itself to a higher growth trajectory and become the third-largest economy in GDP current US$ in the near future,” it said, adding that mere reliance on ‘Jugaad innovation’ risks missing the crucial opportunity to innovate. India’s gross domestic expenditure on R&D (GERD), which is currently the lowest amongst other large economies at about 0.65% of GDP, needs to go up to at least the average level of GERD in other top ten economies of more than 2%. The survey attributed India’s low GERD mainly to the disproportionately lower contribution from the business sector. The business sector in India, it said, contributed much less to gross expenditure on R&D (about 37%) compared with businesses in each of the top ten economies (68% on average). “This is despite the fact that tax incentives for R&D were more liberal in India when compared to those in the top ten economies. The government does a disproportionate amount of heavy-lifting on R&D by contributing 56% of the gross expenditure on R&D, which is three times the average contributed by governments in the top ten economies.”  India’s businesses account for only 37% of GERD while those in the top 10 economies tot up 68%, on average||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/businesses-must-ramp-up-rd-spending-to-boost-innovation/article33700585.ece
30 January 2021||HYDERABAD,||Health outcomes in PM-JAY States better: Survey||The Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana (PM-JAY) contributed to improvement in many health outcomes in States that implemented the ambitious programme the Centre had launched more than two years ago to provide healthcare access to most vulnerable sections, according to the Economic Survey 2020-21. States that joined the PM-JAY, compared to those that did not, experienced greater penetration of health insurance, reduction in infant and child mortality rates, realised improved access and utilisation of family planning services and greater awareness of HIV/AIDS. Across all the States, the proportion of households with health insurance increased by 54% for States that implemented PM-JAY while falling by 10% in States that did not. An analysis of claims under the scheme showed a long-tailed distribution that peaks in the range of Rs. 10,000-15,000.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/health-outcomes-in-pm-jay-states-better-survey/article33700578.ece
30 January 2021||MUMBAI,||Stock indices slide 1.3% on sustained selling||The Economic Survey failed to trigger a rebound in the markets which on Friday slumped by more than 1% on sustained selling pressure. The S&P BSE Sensex tanked 559 points or 1.26% to 46,286 while the NSE Nifty 50 lost 183 points or 1.32% to 13,635. “The equity market remained highly volatile throughout the trading session,” said Dr. Joseph Thomas, head of Research, Emkay Wealth Management. “Speculations about likely public sector bank recapitalisation based on the observations in the Economic Survey helped PSU banks to hold well while the broader market gradually declined.” “The Survey argues for more countercyclical measures from the government,” said Dr. V.K. Vijayakumar, chief investment strategist, Geojit Financial Services. “If the government goes along with the suggestions from the Survey, more government spending, particularly on infrastructure can be expected.” “GDP growth rate of 11% for FY22 is realistic. The Survey also bats for accelerated privatisation..., in tune with the Atmanibhar package announced in May. If the focus of the Survey gets reflected in the Budget, we are likely to get a reformist Budget.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/stock-indices-slide-13-on-sustained-selling/article33700581.ece
30 January 2021||HYDERABAD,||Impairment loss dents Dr. Reddy’s third-quarter net||Pharma major Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories has posted a consolidated net profit of Rs. 27.9 crore for the quarter ended December on the back of recording an impairment loss of nearly Rs. 600 crore. “The profits were impacted due to trigger based impairment charge taken on a few acquired products, including gNuvaring,” co-chairman and MD G.V. Prasad said in a statement. In the corresponding period of the previous fiscal, the company had reported a loss of Rs. 538.4 crore. The Rs. 27.9 crore net profit is a sharp decline on a sequential basis. The drugmaker had registered a net profit of Rs. 771.8 crore in the quarter ended September 2020. Total revenue from operations in the third quarter increased by more than 12% to Rs. 4,941.9 crore (Rs. 4,397.1 crore). Total income also grew in the same range to Rs. 5,012.4 crore (Rs. 4,464.4 crore).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/impairment-loss-dents-dr-reddys-third-quarter-net/article33700591.ece
30 January 2021||New Delhi,||Sun Pharma shares climb 4% after Q3 net profit doubles||Shares of Sun Pharmaceutical Industries on Friday climbed 3.91% to Rs. 586.45 on the BSE after the company reported financial results for quarter ended December. The firm reported a more than two-fold jump in consolidated net profit to Rs. 1,852.48 crore on account of robust sales in most of its markets, compared with Rs. 913.52 crore a year earlier, Sun Pharma said in a regulatory filing. Consolidated total revenue from operations stood at Rs. 8,836.78 crore compared with Rs. 8,154.85 crore, it added. The board has proposed an interim dividend of Rs. 5.50 per share for FY21, the company said. “Our Q3 performance reflects continued profitable business growth in a market that is gradually recovering from the impact of the global pandemic,” MD Dilip Shanghvi said. “Most of our businesses have done well over the third quarter last year.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/sun-pharma-shares-climb-4-after-q3-net-profit-doubles/article33700592.ece
30 January 2021||New Delhi,||Fiscal deficit soars to 146% at Rs. 11.6 lakh cr.||The government’s fiscal deficit soared to Rs. 11.58 lakh crore or 145.5% of the Budget Estimate (BE) at the end of December 2020, mainly on account of lower revenue realisation. Revenue realisation was hit by disruptions in normal business activity following the coronavirus pandemic and lockdowns. According to the data released by the Controller General of Accounts, the fiscal deficit at the end of December in the previous financial year was 132.4% of the BE of FY20.  For the current fiscal, the Centre had pegged the fiscal deficit at Rs. 7.96 lakh crore or 3.5% of the GDP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/fiscal-deficit-soars-to-146-at-rs-116-lakh-cr/article33700579.ece
30 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Flights to reach pre-Covid level in early 2021’||The Economic Survey has forecast that air travel and aircraft movements will reach pre-COVID-19 level in early 2021. This is a “result of swift and decisive interventions and effective measures put in place by the government,” it said. However, curbs on domestic and international operations continue. Airlines are allowed to operate only 80% of their pre-COVID-19 schedule on domestic routes. International operations are only a fraction of the earlier level as the government has permitted limited number of flights to only 24 countries with which it has an “air bubble” arrangement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/flights-to-reach-pre-covid-level-in-early-2021/article33700582.ece
30 January 2021||Chennai,||Wheels India profit rises 30% to Rs. 12 crore||Wheels India Ltd. reported that its standalone net profit rose 30.4% to Rs. 12 crore for the third quarter ended December 2020. Revenue from operations climbed almost 10% to more than Rs. 640 crore. “We have seen a decent performance in all segments other than commercial vehicles [buses in particular] and railways,” MD Srivats Ram said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/wheels-india-profit-rises-30-to-rs-12-crore/article33700589.ece
30 January 2021||Chennai,||Rane Engine Valve back in black with Rs. 14-cr. net||Rane Engine Valve Ltd. has posted a net profit of Rs. 14 crore in the third quarter ended December 2020, against a net loss of Rs. 5 crore in the year-earlier period on account of higher sales. Total revenue stood at Rs. 93 crore (Rs. 83 crore). The financial performance also included an exceptional item of Rs. 23.49 crore (income from profit on sale of land and VRS related expenditure), the company said in a regulatory filing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/rane-engine-valve-back-in-black-with-rs-14-cr-net/article33700590.ece
30 January 2021||London,||Liverpool back on track with Spurs win||Roberto Firmino ended Liverpool’s 483-minute goal drought in the Premier League to set it on way to a 3-1 win over Tottenham on Thursday and revive its faltering title defence. Trent Alexander-Arnold and Sadio Mane also netted as Liverpool ended a five-game winless run in a league it dominated so resoundingly last season. The victory, which lifts Liverpool into fourth place, started with VAR ruling out an opener for Tottenham when Son Heung-min was adjudged to be offside. Powerful strike Pierre-Emile Højbjerg reduced the deficit to 2-1 with a powerful strike shortly after Alexander-Arnold scored at the start of the second half, but the Liverpool right back set up Mane for the third that sealed the win. While Liverpool moved within four points of leader Manchester City, Jose Mourinho’s Tottenham is eight points adrift in sixth after its first defeat in 2021, albeit with a game in hand. Defensive woes Meanwhile, Jurgen Klopp says Liverpool is trying to buy a central defender as it wrestles with a defensive injury crisis after central defender Joel Matip was forced off at half-time. With midfielder Fabinho also missing — alongside long-term absentees Virgil van Dijk and Joe Gomez — Klopp has no fit senior central defenders for Sunday’s trip to West Ham and is missing his first-choice back-up.  “I am not sure there is an £80 million centre-back available at the moment and a club thinks ‘We can get £80 million for him so we will sell him’,” the German said on Friday. “I don’t think that’s the case. Actually, pretty much I know. This calibre of player the teams would not sell them now. “We need to find the right player and one which suits our financial situation, that’s clear as well.” Klopp emphasised the need for a long-term solution, with the transfer window due to close on Monday.  The result: Tottenham 1 (Hojbjerg 49) lost to Liverpool 3 (Firmino 45+4, Alexander-Arnold 47, Mane 65).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/liverpool-gets-the-better-of-spurs/article33700751.ece
30 January 2021||January 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Melbourne win the series-defining moment: Pujara||Over the years, Cheteshwar Pujara has earned plaudits for his batting in the longer format of the game. He is flattered by the Rahul Dravid comparisons — for their identical batting approach — but insists he is focused on the job at hand, which is to win matches for India. Following a challenging but successful tour of Australia, the 33-year-old is elated that the hard work and determination shown by an inexperienced Indian team has paid off. “There were so many injuries, so many players were missing. But it also gave opportunities to young players to play to their potential. It turned out very well for us in the end,” Pujara told Sportstar from Chennai. Pujara was dismissed five times by No. 1 Test bowler Pat Cummins during India’s 2-1 series win. But Pujara said not overthinking his duels with Cummins helped in the end. Respect and move on “Initially, [Cummins] was bowling very well and I had to make some changes to my game. He was maintaining a good line and length. So, if I got out to a good delivery, I had to respect that and move on. That is what helped me perform better because I realised that I had to move on as early as possible.” Pujara feels India’s victory in Melbourne, after the humbling loss in Adelaide, was the turning point in the four-match Border-Gavaskar series. “Jinks (Rahane) batted really well in that game. So, I feel that was the series-defining moment. After that win, the guys got a lot of confidence and they started believing a bit more that now we [have] gained the upper hand. After that, we decided to stick to our process which helped us,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/melbourne-win-the-series-defining-moment-pujara/article33700686.ece
30 January 2021||January 30 2021 00:00 IST,||We can’t focus just on spin, says Thorpe||Whenever a non-subcontinent team travels to India, the focus is on how the travelling batsmen handle the spinners. But in the last two home series, against South Africa and Bangladesh, Indian pacers have accounted for more wickets than spinners. It is something England assistant coach Graham Thorpe is aware of and he warned against focusing too much on spin considering India’s potent pace attack. “One thing about the Indian bowling attack is that it is not just about spin," Thorpe said on Friday during a virtual media interaction. "Their seam attack is strong. We cannot be side-tracked completely and focus just on the spin side of things.” “Playing spin will be important, of course. But with the Indian attack, we know that seam bowling is in play as well. India’s attack has developed into a very good one, and we are very aware of that.”  Commenting on the series and the challenge India poses at home, Thorpe said, "As a cricketer, when you get to the highest level, this is the kind of series that you want to test yourself in. A real challenge “India at home is a real challenge. They are playing very good cricket. They are very strong at home and are coming off a series win in Australia. We have got some players who haven’t toured India. So, it will be a learning curve for them." When asked about the Indian batting line-up and plans for Virat Kohli, Thorpe said, "Virat is just one in a batting order which understands home conditions very well. The key for our bowling attack will be to bowl our ‘best ball’ as often as we can." "We need to have runs on the board and then having the Indian batting order under pressure will be the key. To take the game deep will be an important aspect for England," added the 51-year-old.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/we-cant-focus-just-on-spin-thorpe/article33700691.ece
30 January 2021||January 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Electric Arun Karthik powers TN into final||K.B. Arun Karthik slammed a brilliant, unbeaten 89 (54b, 9x4, 3x6) to guide Tamil Nadu to its second straight final of the Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy with a seven-wicket win over Rajasthan at the Motera Stadium in Ahmedabad on Friday. The 34-year-old — who returned to Tamil Nadu this season after six years away as a professional — made his presence felt in chasing down a competitive target of 155. After losing C. Hari Nishanth and B. Aparajith cheaply, Arun Karthik and N. Jagadeesan steadied the ship with a 52-run stand for the third wicket. Arun Karthik started by pulling left-arm pacer Tanveer Ul-Haq over mid-wicket before working the field against the Rajasthan spinners with sweeps, reverse sweeps, and skilful use of the feet to clear the straight boundaries. After Jagadeesan was dismissed for a run-a-ball 28, Arun Karthik and skipper Dinesh Karthik brought their experience to the fore, smartly picking up runs without taking too many risks. The TN batsmen went after Rajasthan spinners Ravi Bishnoi and Chandrapal Singh. In the 14th over, Dinesh Karthik found three boundaries off Bishnoi, after which TN cantered home with ease. Earlier, choosing to take strike on a good batting wicket, Rajasthan put TN under the pump, with skipper Ashok Menaria smacking a 32-ball 51 (5x4, 2x6) and adding 83 for the third wicket with Arjit Gupta (45, 35b, 2x4, 3x6). Rajasthan was cruising at 120 for two after 13 overs before TN fought back strongly, thanks to Sai Kishore’s brilliant spell (two for 16), with support from Sonu Yadav (one for 27) and M. Mohammed (four for 24).   The scores: Rajasthan 154/9 in 20 overs (Ashok Menaria 51, Arjit Gupta 45, M. Mohammed 4/24) lost to Tamil Nadu 158/3 in 18.4 overs (K.B. Arun Karthik 89 n.o.) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/arun-karthik-powers-tn-into-final/article33700693.ece
30 January 2021||January 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Baroda flattens Punjab with all-round show||A disciplined Baroda outclassed Punjab by 25 runs in the second semifinal of the Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy at Ahmedabad on Friday. Batting first, Baroda paced its innings well to post 160 for three, before the bowlers cut Punjab down to 135 for eight. Punjab fell out of contention quite early in the chase, when left-arm pacer Lukman Meriwala sent back the in-form openers Abhishek Sharma (5) and Prabhsimran Singh (15) cheaply. Left-arm spinner Ninad Rathva kept the pressure on, dismissing Anmolpreet Singh (15) and Ramandeep Singh (6). Medium-pacer Babashafi Pathan sealed the contest when he got Gurkeerat Mann (39, 37b, 3x4, 1x6) to lob a catch to deep point. Gurkeerat Punjab captain Mandeep Singh, hampered by a shoulder injury picked up during fielding, dropped down the order to No. 6. Though he made an unbeaten 24-ball 42, it was not enough. Earlier, Baroda rode on a 93-run third-wicket stand between skipper Kedar Devdhar (64, 49b, 4x4, 3x6) and Kartik Kakade (53 n.o., 41b, 5x4, 2x6) to post a good total. Kakade began to accelerate in the 11th over, with a slog-sweep off leggie Mayank Markande. He then got two maximums in the long-off region. Devdhar, meanwhile, moved to top gear with two big sixes over midwicket off pacer Siddharth Kaul. Devdhar and Kakare were instrumental in Baroda racking up 96 runs in the final 10 overs. Punjab was let down by poor catching. Kaul dropped a regulation chance when Devdhar was on 31, much to the disappointment of bowler Markande. Kakade received a life on 18 when Anmolpreet Singh misjudged a skier at long-off. Those proved costly in the end.  The scores: Baroda 160/3 in 20 overs (Kedar Devdhar 64, Kartik Kakade 53 n.o.) bt Punjab 135/8 in 20 overs (Gurkeerat Mann 39, Mandeep Singh 42 n.o., Lukman Meriwala 3/28).   Final: January 31, TN vs Baroda, 7 p.m .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/baroda-flattens-punjab-with-all-round-show/article33700689.ece
30 January 2021||GURUGRAM,||Wildcard Anjali stuns top seed Sanjana||Wild card entrant Anjali Rathi sustained her strong game to get past top seed Sanjana Sirimalla in the girls’ semifinals of the ITF grade-4 junior tennis tournament at the Tennis Project, Baliawas, on Friday. Anjali, who had beaten the third seed Vaishnavi Adkar in the second round, led 6-7(2), 6-2, 5-1 when Sanjana retired. In the other semifinal, Shruti Ahlawat outplayed second seed Reshma Maruri for the loss of three games. In the boys’ event, top seed Nishant Dabas cruised past qualifier Manas Dhamne for the loss of five games, to set up a title clash against Chirag Duhan. Nishant won his second successive doubles title with Aman Dahiya. The girls’ title was bagged by Bhakti Shah and Riya Uboveja who beat the top seeds Reshma Maruri and Suhitha Maruri in straight sets.  The results: Boys (semifinals): Nishant Dabas bt Manas Dhamne 6-4, 6-1; Chirag Duhan bt Aman Dahiya 6-0, 6-4.   Doubles (final): Nishant & Aman bt Chirag & Anargha Ganguly 7-5, 7-6(5).   Girls (semifinals): Anjali Rathi bt Sanjana Sirimalla 6-7(2), 6-2, 5-1 (retired); Shruti Ahlawat bt Reshma Maruri 6-2, 6-1.   Doubles (final): Bhakti Shah & Riya Uboveja bt Reshma & Suhitha Maruri 6-2, 7-5 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/wildcard-anjali-stuns-top-seed-sanjana/article33700866.ece
30 January 2021||Pune:,||Kildare takes honours in Republic Cup||S.K. Sunderji-trained Kildare (A. Sandesh up) won the Republic Cup, the feature event of Friday’s (Jan. 29) Mumbai races held here.. The winner is owned by Mrs. M. B. Dubash & Ms. Farida B. Dubash. Jockey P. Trevor won three races on the day.  1. RADICAL FORCE PLATE (Div. II) (1,600m), Cl. IV, rated 20 to 46: LIVE BY NIGHT (Trevor) 1, White River (Neeraj) 2, Evangeline (K.Kadam) 3 and Hioctane (Chouhan) 4. 2, Nk and 2-3/4. 1m, 40. 06s. Rs. 16 (w), 12, 14 and 15 (p). SHP: 40, FP: 73, Q: 31, Tanala: 198 and 113. Favourite: Live By Night. Owners: M/s. Jatin L. Trivedi, Nitin H. Jain & Rajesh Monga. Trainer: S.K. Sunderji.  2. ADOLFITO PLATE (Div. I) (1,200m), Cl. IV, 5-y-o & over, rated 20 to 46: CELLINI (Trevor) 1, Dumas (Zervan) 2, Jetfire (Parmar) 3 and Goshawk (T.S. Jodha) 4. Not run: Alpine Express. 9, 1/2 and 3/4. 1m, 9.58s. Rs. 15 (w), 11, 16 and 23 (p). SHP: 41, FP: 57, Q: 75, Tanala: 274 and 176. Favourite: Cellini. Owners: Mrs. Bakhtawar B. Chenoy, Mr. D. R. Thacker rep. DT Racing & Breeders LLP, M/s. Neville H. Bilpodiwala, G. Shewakramani & J. H. Damania. Trainer: Bezan Chenoy.  Note: Dancing Lances (Aniket up) veered out soon after the start and stopped galloping.  3. SHANTIDAS ASKURAN TROPHY (1,200m), Cl. II, rated 60 to 86: HIDDEN GOLD (Trevor) 1, Revelator (Sandesh) 2, Golden Guest (Neeraj) 3 and Sharareh (Parmar) 4. 3/4, Hd and 3-1/2. 1m, 9.09s. Rs. 50 (w), 21, 18 and 11 (p). SHP: 47, FP: 255, Q: 137, Tanala: 266 and 83. Favourite: Golden Guest. Owners: Mrs. Behroze Z. Poonawalla & Mr. Yohan Z. Poonawalla rep. Poonawalla Racing & Brdg Pvt Ltd, Mr. Mukul Sonawala, Mr. D.R. Thacker rep. DT Racing & Breeders LLP, M/s. Sagar Ishwardas Chordia & Jehan J. Satarvala. Trainer: Dallas Todywalla.  4. CABRIOLET PLATE (1,000m), (Terms) Maiden, 3-y-o only: RED MERLOT (Dashrath) 1, Multiencrypted (Parmar) 2, Ginsburg (Neeraj) 3 and Hilma Klint (J. Chinoy) 4. Hd, 3 and 2-3/4. 58.14s. Rs. 79 (w), 20 and 14 (p). SHP: 40, FP: 114, Q: 45, Tanala: 749 and Rs. 642. Favourite: Multiencrypted. Owners: Mr. Laxmikant Goculdas rep. B. S & Services Pvt Ltd. Trainer: Narendra Lagad.  5. ICEBREAKER PLATE (1,400m), Cl. III, rated 40 to 66: SUNRISE RUBY (Nazil) 1, Dreams (T.S. Jodha) 2, Princess Annabel (Bhawani) 3 and Sandalphon (Trevor) 4. 3-1/4, 5-1/4 and 1-1/4. 1m, 24.18s. Rs. 16 (w), 13 and 14 (p). SHP: 33, FP: 44, Q: 26, Tanala: 148 and 70. Favourite: Sunrise Ruby. Owners: Mr. K.N. Dhunjibhoy and Mr. Z. K. Dhunjibhoy rep. Five Stars Shipping Co Pvt Ltd. Trainer: Hosidar Daji.  6. RADICAL FORCE PLATE (Div. I) (1,600m), Cl. IV, rated 20 to 46: ARCADIA (Mosin) 1, North Star (Chouhan) 2, Black Cherry (J. Chinoy) 3 and Monarchos (Trevor) 4. 1/2, 5 and Hd. 1m, 38.79s. Rs. 108 (w), 34, 14 and 29 (p). SHP: 54, FP: 1,198, Q: 537, Tanala: 1,302 and 558. Favourite: North Star. Owners: Mr. P. Shroff, Mrs. Tina Shroff, Mr. Yohann Shroff & Ms. Anya P. Shroff. Trainer: P. Shroff.  7. REPUBLIC CUP (1,400m), (Terms) 4-y-o & over: KILDARE (Sandesh) 1, Flying Visit (Trevor) 2, Augustus Caesar (Neeraj) 3 and St. Andrews (T.S. Jodha) 4. 3-3/4, Sh and 9-3/4. 1m, 24.53s. Rs. 20 (w), 12 and 15 (p). SHP: 21, FP: 65, Q: 74, Tanala: 928 and 66. Favourite: Iron Age. Owners: Mrs. M. B. Dubash & Ms. Farida B. Dubash. Trainer: S.K. Sunderji.  8. VICTORY MARCH PLATE (1,000m), Cl. V, rated 4 to 30: AME (Parmar) 1, Nusrat (Peter) 2, Brave (Aniket) 3 and Stars For You (Bhawani) 4. 2-1/2, Nk and Sh. 58. 58s. Rs. 28 (w), 10, 14 and 34 (p). SHP: 44, FP: 212, Q: 62, Tanala: 798 and 1,026. Favourite: Colosseum. Owners: Mr. Laxmikumar Goculdas rep. B. S & Services Pvt Ltd, Mr. Ranjit Kapadia & Estate Of late Mr. Yogesh M. Shroff. Trainer: M.K. Jadhav.  9. ADOLFITO PLATE (Div. II) (1,200m), Cl. IV, 5-y-o & over, rated 20 to 46: BEEMER (Sandesh) 1, Tanahaiyaan (Trevor) 2, Thunder Clap (Chouhan) 3 and Timeless Deeds (Kaviraj) 4. 3/4, Shd and 7-1/4. 1m, 9.97s. Rs. 36 (w), 17, 12 and 13 (p). SHP: 42, FP: 47, Q: 101, Tanala: 186 and 97. Favourite: Tanahaiyaan. Owners: Mr. S.R. Sanas, Mr. D.R. Thacker rep. DT Racing & Breeders LLP, M/s. Sanjay Kumar Shinde & Dallas Todywalla. Trainer: Dallas Todywalla. Jackpot: (i) 70%: C/F and 30%: Rs. 175 (11 tkts.); (ii): 70%: 16,438 (1 tkt.) and 30%: 704 (10 tkts.). Treble: (i) 787 (4 tkts.), (ii) 556 (5 tkts.), (iii) 490 (10 tkts.). Super jackpot: 70%: C/F and 30%: 3,863 (1 tkt.).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kildare-takes-honours-in-republic-cup/article33701218.ece
30 January 2021||Bangkok,||Sindhu signs off with a win||Already out of contention for the knockouts, World champion P.V. Sindhu ended her campaign with a consolation win at the BWF World Tour Finals, but K. Srikanth had a disappointing finish after yet another close defeat, here on Friday. Sindhu, the Olympic silver medallist, notched up a 21-18, 21-15 win over World No. 13 Pornpawee Chochuwong in her third and final match. “Well I think it was a good finish. Actually, until yesterday I still had a chance. Unfortunately the match with Tai went the other way. Otherwise, it was a good game,” Sindhu said. Srikanth, meanwhile, went down 21-12, 18-21, 19-21 to Hong Kong’s NG Ka Long Angus. Sindhu opened up a 9-5 lead early on before entering the interval with a two-point advantage. Chochuwong managed to turn the tables at 15-14 but a determined Sindhu ensured there were no hiccups. In the second, Sindhu dished out a dominating game as she jumped to a 6-0 lead and then kept moving ahead, keeping her rival at bay to seal the contest without much ado. “Today is a new day and a fresh start. These three tournaments haven’t gone as I had expected and there’s been a lot to learn,” Sindhu said. In one of the big upsets of the day, teenage sensation South Korea’s An Se-young beat top seed and former World champion Carolina Marin 21-16, 14-21, 21-19 to register her first win over the Spaniard in three meetings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sindhu-signs-off-with-a-win/article33700732.ece
30 January 2021||January 30 2021 00:00 IST,||East Bengal salvages a draw with FC Goa||SC East Bengal wasted a number of scoring opportunities before managing to hold a 10-man FC Goa 1-1 in an ISL match at the Fatorda Stadium on Friday. Igor Angulo took Goa ahead late in the first half before Daniel Fox produced the equaliser for East Bengal in the second to help the latter pick up a point. East Bengal had the chance to alter the scoreline in the very first minute when it was awarded a penalty. East Bengal’s left-wing back Narayan Das was brought down by the Goa defender Mohamed Ali prompting the referee to point to the spot. However, Anthony Pilkington gave the East Bengal fans a heartbreak when he sent his attempt wide. The Gaurs regrouped quickly and almost got the break in the fifth minute when Angulo got the ball clear in the East Bengal half but failed to beat goalkeeper Debjit Majumder. Goa defenders found East Bengal forward Bright Enobakhare’s silken skills with the ball a bit too hot to handle as the Nigerian weaved past his challengers in the 27th minute to release Pilkington in front of the goal. But the Irish midfielder was sloppy with his finishing once again. The breakthrough Goa then found the breakthrough in the 39th minute when Angulo made no mistake after receiving a nice through-pass from compatriot Alberto Noguera, who split the East Bengal defence open to find the former in the right spot inside the East Bengal box. East Bengal returned strongly after the break and created a lot more opportunities but its finishing left a lot to be desired. Finally it fell on seasoned defender Fox to find the equaliser, which he did off a corner from Pilkington. Goa was reduced to 10 men in the 65th when its captain Edu Bedia was sent off for a second booking but East Bengal failed to take advantage of the numerical advantage.  The result: FC Goa (Igor Angulo 39) drew with East Bengal 1 (Daniel Fox 65).   Saturday’s match: Mumbai City vs NEUFC, 7.30 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/east-bengal-salvages-a-draw-with-fc-goa/article33700741.ece
30 January 2021||Coimbatore,||It’s going to be challenging: Gill||After winning the first two rounds in Arunachal Pradesh with relative ease, Gaurav Gill (co-driver Musa Sherif), representing JK Tyre, will face a stiff test in the third round of the FMSCI INRC Rally of Coimbatore for four-wheelers at the Kethanur windmill farm here on Saturday. And, Gill knows it pretty well, too. “It’s going to be challenging here as the terrain is definitely the roughest that I have seen in the last several years. The rains have made it worse rather than getting it all back together,” he said. The tarmac terrain in Arunachal was fast and smooth. “This is the complete opposite. Here, it is more of lower speeds and lower average speeds. You got to be smart here,” said the Arjuna awardee. “It’s a long rally, long stages and there’s going to be lots of stress on the car, specially in the 20km stage — the tyres, the suspension, gearbox and more,” he added. Gill’s teammate Amittrajit Ghosh said Coimbatore has always been a rough event. “If you see the results every year at least half the grid falls down and so it’s not a flat out event like Arunachal. But it’s good to be back on gravel and rallying again,” he said. Coimbatore City Police Commissioner Sumit Sharan flagged off the event from the Jenneys Residency here on Friday evening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/its-going-to-be-challenging-gill/article33700745.ece
30 January 2021||Bengaluru,||Want to create good memories in Australia, says Sumit Nagal||For Sumit Nagal, 2020 was a year of contrasting memories. At the US Open in early September, he became the first Indian in seven years to win a Grand Slam main draw singles match. Three weeks later, at the French Open on his beloved clay, he crashed out in round one of qualifying. As he begins his 2021 season at the Murray River Open ATP 250 in Melbourne, starting Monday, ahead of the Australian Open where he has been awarded a wild card, the 23-year-old is keen on drawing the right lessons from last year and making his trip Down Under special. “I have never had a good result here (Australia),” Nagal says. “So, I want to create some good memories. “Whenever I played juniors or qualifiers, I was never in great shape mentally or physically. “It is different this time and am looking forward.” Nagal may have lost to eventual champion Dominic Thiem at Flushing Meadows, but the match held important cues. ‘Where I stand’ “It told me where I stood and how much I had to work to get to that level. Thiem is not a 6-feet-6-inch guy who serves bombs. “He is a very hard-working player who has built his game around that strength and won a Slam. It was eye-opening.” So was the defeat in Paris, but in a completely different sense. “It really really hurt me. I was expecting a lot. So, I couldn’t forget that loss. That was a mistake. I kept the loss with me and that cost me.” According to former India No. 1 Somdev Devvarman, who is now part of Nagal’s coaching team and whose record the World No. 138 emulated in New York, it is important to ensure that the youngster is “physically, emotionally and mentally” up there. “He is young and just starting to taste success,” says Somdev. “Going by the current trend in tennis, he has got at least another 10 years. “So, it’s not just about getting results but doing things the right way and being successful for a longer time.” Nagal has set off in that direction in earnest. “Compared to two years before, I am serving better, hitting my forehand bigger and my backhand cleaner. “ I have worked a lot on my serve. I am not a big guy and I really need to have a good % of serves in and be ready to attack the return. Run heavy “I run a lot and run heavy. At the end of last year, I had to stop a match because of an injury. So, I am focusing on my body a lot as well.” If Nagal can manage to get his mind and body in sync, the next two weeks in Australia can indeed be memorable.  (Australian Open 2021 will be aired live on Sony Six, Sony Ten 2 and Sony Ten 3 from February 8 to 21).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/want-to-create-good-memories-in-australia-says-sumit-nagal/article33700747.ece
30 January 2021||KOLKATA,||NDTL suspension to stay for now||The World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA) has said that National Dope Testing Laboratory’s (NDTL) accreditation cannot be reinstated now as the New Delhi-based lab is yet to satisfy WADA over several corrective actions. NDTL’s second six-month suspension ended on January 17. “However, a number of required corrective actions still have not been satisfactorily addressed and so, under the terms of the International Standard for Laboratories (ISL), the laboratory’s accreditation cannot be reinstated at this time. “WADA is in contact with the NDTL in an effort to ensure these corrective actions are implemented as quickly as possible,” WADA’s media relations and communications manager James Fitzgerald told The Hindu via email. No analyses “The suspension prohibits the NDTL from carrying out any anti-doping activities, including all analyses of urine and blood samples.” NDTL was first suspended by WADA in August 2019 due to non-conformities with the ISL identified during a WADA site visit. “In February 2020, when the six-month suspension period elapsed and some outstanding non-conformities had not been addressed successfully, WADA’s Laboratory Expert Group (LabEG) recommended the initiation of further disciplinary proceedings against the laboratory.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ndtl-suspension-to-stay-for-now/article33700867.ece
30 January 2021||Karachi,||Nauman and Yasir shine in Pakistan’s victory||Debutant Nauman Ali took five wickets and fellow spinner Yasir Shah grabbed four to give Pakistan a seven-wicket victory in the first Test against South Africa here on Friday. Nauman finished with five for 35 and Yasir took four for 79 as South Africa slumped to 245 all out in its second innings on the fourth day on a wearing National Stadium pitch. Pakistan, needing 88 for victory, lost openers Abid Ali, Imran Butt and Babar Azam for 52 before reaching the target in 22.5 overs to take a 1-0 lead in the two-match series. Azhar Ali was 31 not out while Fawad Alam, who hit a fighting hundred in the first innings, hit the winning boundary. The second Test starts on February 4 in Rawalpindi. It was Pakistan's fifth victory against South Africa in 27 Tests. Anrich Nortje bowled Abid in the first over after lunch and then had Butt caught behind to finish with two for 24. Azam, on his Test captaincy debut, was dismissed leg before by Keshav Maharaj. It was a spinners' battle on a brownish wicket, allowing Nauman to record figures of seven for 73 and Yasir seven for 133. In contrast, South Africa's spinners managed just four wickets. Pakistan had taken a crucial 158-run first innings lead, thanks to a fighting century by Fawad and half-centuries from Faheem Ashraf and Azhar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/nauman-and-yasir-shine-in-pakistans-victory/article33700684.ece
30 January 2021||MUMBAI,||Siddhesh Pande gifts himself early birthday present||Siddhesh Pande couldn’t have asked for a better celebration three days ahead of his 23rd birthday than his memorable outing in the Dr. Ramesh Prabhoo Memorial 82nd Maharashtra State Table Tennis Championship, which concluded at the Prabodhankar Thackeray Krida Sankul, Vile Parle, Mumbai on Thursday. Pande, a paddler from Thane who recently shifted to Pune, completed a hat-trick of men’s singles titles in the State Championship. But more than his 4-2 victory over Mumbai Suburban’s Chinmay Somaiya, his semifinal triumph against champion paddler Sanil Shetty that made the run sweeter for Pande. “It was the first time in all these years that I have managed to beat Sanil. The victory has given me a great confidence boost after a lull due to the pandemic,” Pande, a product of Shailaja Gohad’s Booster Table Tennis Academy in Thane, told The Hindu . The lockdown delayed Pande’s move to Pune after being employed by Central GST & Customs. But Pande stressed that his relocation has served as a boon, thanks to him joining India Khelega, a Khelo India-accredited table tennis facility founded by Sanmay Paranjape in the premises of S.P. Mandali. Pande explained that besides training with “some of the top paddlers in the country at India Khelega”, including the likes of Manika Batra, Manush Shah and Anukram Jain, the Pune-based academy has helped him focus better on achieving his targets. “Sanmay helps in meticulous planning in every aspect of the game, be it skills, match-simulation or even fitness and nutrition,” Pande said, adding that the victory over Commonwealth Games gold medallist Shetty has given him the much-needed confidence ahead of the National Championship, to be played in Panchkula from February 15. “Just couldn’t have asked for a better preparation than beating Sanil for the first time. It makes me feel that I am ready to take on the best in the country at the Nationals,” he said.  The results: Final: Men’s: Siddhesh Pande (THN) bt Chinmay Somiya (TSTTA) 12-10, 11-5, 9-11, 9-11, 11-7, 11-6; Women’s: Reeth Rishya (TSTTA) bt Divya Deshpande (TSTTA) 11-9, 10-12, 11-5, 11-9, 12-14, 11-9.   Boys: Youth (U-21): Deepit Patil (THN) bt Tanmay Rane (MCD) 11-5, 12-10, 11-13, 14-12, 12-14, 11-6; Junior (U-18): Deepit Patil (THN) bt Aadil Anand (TSTTA) 11-13, 11-4, 11-7, 12-10, 9-11, 11-3; Sub-junior (U-15): Neil Mulye (PNA) bt Amish Athavle (NDD) 8-11, 11-5, 9-11, 11-4, 10-12, 11-2, 11-9; Cadet (U-12): Parth Magar (MCD) bt Shouren Soman (PNA) 9-11, 15-13, 11-9, 12-10, 8-11, 11-6.   Girls: Youth: Diya Chitale (TSTTA) bt Shreya Deshpande (THN) 13-11, 11-5, 11-7, 11-7; Junior: Pritha Vartikar (PNA) bt Samruddhi Kulkarni (SOL) 11-5, 11-6, 11-7, 11-5; Sub-junior: Pritha Vartikar (PNA) bt Ananya Chande (TSTTA) 8-11, 15-13, 10-12, 11-5, 15-13, 10-12, 11-6; Cadet: Riana Bhoota (THN) bt Ishika Umate (NGP) 11-2, 12-10, 11-7, 8-11, 11-5 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/siddhesh-pande-gifts-himself-early-birthday-present/article33701220.ece
30 January 2021||January 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Qualities of a sadhu||Uddhava asks Lord Krishna many questions, and these questions and answers find a place in Srimad Bhagavatam, elaborated P.T. Seshadri in a discourse. Uddhava wants to know what the qualities of sadhus are. Lord Krishna says that there are 31 qualities that characterise sadhus. The Lord then lists them. A sadhu cannot bear to see others sorrowful. He never harms any living thing. Honesty is his strength. Jealousy has no place in his life. He treats sorrow and joy alike. He helps all living things. He is not caught in a web of desires. He has control over his indriyas. He never uses harsh words, but is always gentle in his speech. His conduct is impeccable. He knows that none but Lord Krishna can grant moksha to anyone. He has no interest in worldly pleasures. He eats only prasada. In other words, he eats only food that has been offered to the Lord. He has total control over his mind. He is steadfast in his dharma. He is constantly reciting the Ashtakshara mantra. He seeks no refuge except the Lord’s feet. He is not perturbed even when he faces dangers. He is not afraid of hunger or thirst, or of grief, lust, old age and death. He does not like flattery. He treats the Lord’s devotees with respect. He tells others of the Lord’s leelas and delights in doing so. He never cheats or deceives anyone. He never asks God to grant him anything. He only craves His mercy. He knows very well all the deeds of the Lord. He performs all the rites he has to perform according to the Sastras. But he is never proud about such adherence. He just does what is required of him. He knows that his sins will keep him from attaining moksha and that only Krishna’s mercy will see him through. He knows that the best dharma is worship of Lord Krishna.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/qualities-of-a-sadhu/article33700679.ece
30 January 2021||January 30 2021 00:00 IST,||‘I simply stuck to what I knew’||The Border-Gavaskar Trophy series was Cheteshwar Pujara's first competitive outing after a nine-month hiatus because of COVID-19 and India's No. 3 batsman in Tests revealed the journey down under. “The Australians were not offering any loose deliveries and were sticking to the right line and length. So, I did not think of doing anything extra. I stuck to what I knew and was successful in the last two Tests.” Pujara, with 277 runs, was one of the architects of India's 2-1 series win.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/i-simply-stuck-to-what-i-knew/article33700682.ece
30 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Harikrishna plays Foreest||P. Harikrishna (5 points) will play Dutchman Jorden van Foreest in the 11th round of the Tata Steel Masters chess tournament at Wijk aan Zee, in the Netherlands. When the action resumes after a day’s rest, Magnus Carlsen will take on leader Anish Giri (7) and World No. 2 Fabiano Caruana will face Iranian youngster Alireza Firouzja.  11th round pairings: Jorden van Foreest (Ned, 6) vs P. Harikrishna (5); Magnus Carlsen (Nor, 5.5) vs Anish Giri (Ned, 7).   Aryan Tari (Nor, 4) vs Andrey Esipenko (Rus, 6.5); Alireza Firouzja (FIDE, 6.5) vs Fabiano Caruana (USA, 6.5); David Anton Guijar (Esp, 3.5) vs Nils Grandelius (Swe, 5); Radoslaw Wojtaszek (Pol, 3.5) vs Maxime Vachier-Lagrave (Fra, 4); Alexander Donchenko (Ger, 3) vs Jan-Krzysztof Duda (Pol, 4).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/harikrishna-plays-foreest/article33700862.ece
30 January 2021||January 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Chennai City FC regains winning form||Chennai City FC returned to winning ways by downing Indian Arrows by a solitary goal in an I-League fixture at the Kalyani Stadium, Kolkata, on Friday. An Elvedin Skrijelj header midway through the second half fetched Chennai City full points. This was the former champion’s second win — it had lost its previous two outings after starting the campaign with a win over Gokulam Kerala FC. Chennai City earned a few good chances in the opening half but poor finishing came in the way of converting them. Vijay Nagappan had back-to-back opportunities in front of an open Arrows goal in a matter of seconds in the 28th minute but failed to make a proper connection on each occasion. Chennai City continued to create more chances after the break and found the target in the 63rd minute when Serbian Skrijelj produced a powerful header off a Mohamed Iqbal corner to find the back of the Arrows net. Earlier in the day, Sudeva Delhi FC earned a point when it held RoundGlass Punjab FC to a goalless draw.  The results: Chennai City FC 1 (Elvedin Skrijelj 63) bt Indian Arrows 0; RoundGlass Punjab FC 0 drew with Sudeva Delhi FC 0; Churcuill Brothers 1 (Clayvin Zuniga 18) drew with TRAU FC 1 (Bidyashagar Singh 23).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/chennai-city-fc-regains-winning-form/article33700736.ece
30 January 2021||CHENNAI,||Daruvala soars for Falcons||India's Jehan Daruvala made it to the podium on debut for Indian outfit Mumbai Falcons in the FIA Asian F3 championship in Dubai on Friday. His teammate Kush Maini had a forgettable race after being hit by another car on the opening lap. However, Maini clocked the second fastest lap of the race and will therefore start second for race-2 on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/daruvala-soars-for-falcons/article33700743.ece
30 January 2021||Los Angeles,||It’s Pistons’ turn to down Lakers||Wayne Ellington continued his hot hand, scoring 20 points as Detroit Pistons rebounded from its worst loss of the season with a 107-92 upset of reigning NBA champion Los Angeles Lakers on Thursday. Centre Mason Plumlee finished with 17 points and 10 rebounds, Blake Griffin tallied 23 points and Derrick Rose came off the bench to score 14 points as the last place Pistons improved to 5-4. Missing Davis The Pistons overcame a 20-point first half by LeBron James, then seized control down the stretch with a 19-3 scoring run. The Lakers lost back-to-back games for the first time as they were held to under 100 points after being forced to play without forward Anthony Davis, who was out with a bruised quadricep.   The results: Houston Rockets 104 bt Portland Trail Blazers 101; Phoenix Suns 114 bt Golden State Warriors 93; Detroit Pistons 107 bt LA Lakers 92; Miami Heat 105 lost to LA Clippers 109.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/its-pistons-turn-to-down-lakers/article33700748.ece
30 January 2021||KOCHI:,||Govind, Kavya lift maiden State titles||For a minutes in the final, doubts began to creep in Govind Anoop’s mind. The fourth seed from Ernakulam was level with Kozhikode’s Mohammed Sahil after four games but when the next game got very close, Anoop was a very worried youngster. “I asked myself when he came back ‘what’s going to happen now’”, Anoop said after pulling off a close victory for his maiden State men’s singles title in the KTTA’s 69th State table tennis championships at the Rajiv Gandhi indoor stadium here on Friday evening. “Every point was very hard.” Close decider The decider was very close too but Regional Sports Centre’s Anoop, who had upset the top seed Fabith Sunil in the semifinal, kept his cool under pressure to pull off a memorable win. Kozhikode’s Kavya Jayanth also won her maiden State women's title after a 4-1 victory over Alappuzha’s G. Abhaya. Sahil had beat Anoop for the youth boys title earlier while Abhaya took the youth girls’ trophy.  The results (all singles):   Men’s final: Govind Anoop (Ekm) bt Mohammed Sahil (Koz) 13-11, 5-11, 5-11, 11-7, 13-11, 8-11, 11-9. Semifinals: Anoop bt Fabith Sunil (Koz) 11-9, 14-12, 12-10, 11-8; Sahil bt Shijil Jose (Koz) 11-5, 11-9, 11-2, 8-11, 11-5).   Youth boys’ final: Mohammed Sahil (Koz) bt Govind Anoop (Ekm) 11-8, 11-6, 9-11, 11-9, 11-7. Semifinals: Sahil bt Shijil Jose (Koz) 11-7, 11-3, 11-8, 11-2; Anoop bt Vallabh S. Jain (Ekm) 11-5, 11-4, 11-4, 11-6.   Women’s final: Kavya Jayanth (Koz) bt G. Abhaya (Alp) 11-9, 14-12, 11-7, 3-11, 11-7. Semifinals: Kavya bt Shika Jacob (Income Tax) 11-8, 9-11, 11-7, 11-4, 5-11, 8-11, 11-8; Abhaya bt Reenu Baiju (Alp) 12-10, 9-11, 11-6, 11-9, 11-9.   Youth girls’ final: G. Abhaya (Alp) bt Reenu Baiju (Alp) 11-8, 9-11, 11-4, 14-12, 9-11, 12-10. Semifinals: Abhaya bt E. Swetha (Koz) 11-5, 11-5, 11-7, 11-6; Reenu bt Kavya Jayanth (Koz) 15-13, 6-11, 8-11, 11-7, 5-11, 11-6, 11-5.   Veteran men’s (above-40) final: Anil Sivaprasad (Klm) bt Rejith Ravi (Tvm) 12-10, 11-2, 11-6.   Above-50 final: R. Shankara Iyer (Ktm) bt Hemachandran (Koz) 11-4, 11-6, 11-3 .      A fine all-round performance by Ahammed Imran (71 & 3/36) enabled Shaines Academy crush NAESTA Cricket Foundation by 59 runs in the Loongs C. Sneharaj Trophy under-16 all-Kerala cricket tournament. In another match, New Kids Academy (Chengannur) crushed NAESTA, which was playing its second match of the day, by 152 runs.  The scores: Shaines Academy 221/5 in 25 overs (Ahammed Imran 71, S.B. Ameesh 64) bt NAESTA Cricket Foundation 152/7 in 25 overs (Azhar Sanofur 50, Ahammed Imran 3/36).   New Kids Academy, Chengannur 242/6 in 25 overs (Abhiram 70, Rishal 69) bt NAESTA Cricket Foundation 90 in 12 overs (Aadil Azad 39, Rishikesh H. Nair 5/46).      Yusuf Ghan scored twice as Kalamassery Veterans brushed aside Elamakkara Veterans 4-1 in the EDFA’s first Masters football tournament at the Sports Academy ground, Panampilly Nagar, on Friday.  The result: Kalamassery Veterans 4 (Roubeel 5, Yusuf Ghan 30 & 41, Abdul Salam 45) bt Elamakkara Veterans 1 (Jinson 36) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/govind-kavya-lift-maiden-state-titles/article33701118.ece
30 January 2021||January 30 2021 09:03 IST,||Sudoku — January 30, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-january-30-2021/article33701513.ece
30 January 2021||January 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Cheer on a chilly night||This is the time for laal maas , that delicious Rajasthani meat dish that gets its name from its bright red colour. The dish warms you up when the temperature dips, as I discovered when I first had it at a friend’s place eons ago. A good cook, he had drowned the gravy with red chillies, which added both colour and taste to the curry. Since then, I have often cooked it at home, too, but mixed the red chillies with vinegar to take some of the kick out of the sharpness. The weather and my fondness for this dish made me pause on my home ordering app, when I saw that a delivery outlet called Madam Curry had laal maas (Rs. 565) on its menu. I put a tick mark there and scrolled up and down. Some of the dishes sounded familiar: For instance, the menu included Deconstructed Palak Patta Chaat, tandoori prawns, malai broccoli and various kinds of biryanis. I liked the sound of the Deconstructed Avocado and Papri Chaat (Rs. 295) and the Mini Vada Pao Sliders (Rs. 295). For mains, I asked for, apart from the laal maas , adrakhi gobhi (Rs. 395) and hari mirch parathas (Rs. 125 for three), and for dessert, some phirni (Rs. 175). These days, I find that the enjoyment quotient of food goes up significantly if it comes well packaged. This certainly did. The sliders were in a small, compact box, the mains in light containers, the chaat and the sweet dish in glass jars. I started with the chaat — and enjoyed it thoroughly. The avocado bits gave the chaat a smooth texture, while the tangy and sweet taste came from pomegranate seeds and the chutneys. The vada pao slider was like a dose of nostalgia, reminding me at once of the vegetable burgers that coffee houses used to once serve. The filling consisted of a plump potato patty, and the buns surrounding it were soft and spongy. It was a small slider, just enough to whet the appetite, and it steered me to the adhrakhi gobhi and the meat. Frankly, I didn’t get the taste of green chillies in my paratha, but it was nice and crisp, and went rather well with the cauliflower, which had been cooked with kasoori methi and garam masalas, and topped with a bit of chaat masala, butter and cream. Little strips of bell pepper and ginger juliennes added to the flavour. Now for the laal maas . I got a bit intimidated by the large pieces, and so stuck to the gravy, which went rather well with the paratha. Then I turned to the dessert, a Rose Phirni and a Kahlua-Chocolate Phirni. The rose flavoured powdered rice and thickened milk dish was nice, but I must admit that even though I love all the local flavours (rose, saffron, badaam , kesar ), I preferred the liqueur-chocolate one, its flavours melding well with the milk. Madam Curry (Ph: 9310479766) delivers through Zomato and their website madamcurry.in). The menu includes Cheddar Cheese Soul Fish Tikka (Rs. 565), Blue Cheese Malai Chicken Tikka (Rs. 385), mutton biryani (Rs. 565), shahi zeera alu (Rs. 395) and smoked shahi paneer (Rs. 445), paneer tikka (Rs. 315) and Shahi Tukda Cigar (Rs. 175). The menu is a mix of the innovative and the traditional, the food is well cooked, and the packaging reassuring in these worrying times. The laal maas gravy did bring cheer on a chilly night. The writer is a seasoned food critic||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/cheer-on-a-chilly-night/article33700884.ece
30 January 2021||January 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Finding purpose in a cup||Conscious personal care brand The Switch Fix and Blue Tokai are repurposing coffee waste into co-branded body scrubs. The two vegan and cruelty-free variants — priced at Rs. 489 each — are available at Blue Tokai outlets and theswitchfix.co. Looking for make-up formulated for Indian skin tones? Hyderabad-based entrepreneur Tanisha Valralwar has launched organic beauty brand Tsara Cosmetics, with 10 liquid lip shades — including browns, peaches and reds, the most popular being mauve. At Rs. 1,100 on tsaracosmetics.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/finding-purpose-in-a-cup/article33700874.ece
30 January 2021||January 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Weekend theatre||Mumbai-based theatre company Aarambh presentsBandish 20-20,000 Hz, a Hindi play by playwright Purva Naresh. The pre-recorded show features music composed by Hindustani classical singer Shubha Mudgal. Today and tomorrow at 6.50 pm. Tickets from Rs. 399 on insider.in. Join the Auroville Theatre Group for a virtual staging ofRed Bike, a one-man show written by playwright Caridad Svich. It is a story of hope amidst despair in small-town America. Today at 7 pm. Tickets at Rs. 200 on in.bookmyshow.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/weekend-theatre/article33700876.ece
30 January 2021||January 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Stream easy||Tory Belleci fromMythBustersand Richard Hammond fromThe Grand Tourare shipwrecked on a remote island inThe Great Escapists. The duo uses their engineering and scientific skills to not only survive, but to construct a paradise island playground. On Amazon Prime. Meanwhile, Chaitanya Tamhane’s Marathi film, The Disciple, which debuted at the 77th Venice Film Festival last year, winning the International Critics Prize and Best Screenplay honour, has been acquired by Netflix. The release date will be announced shortly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/stream-easy/article33700877.ece
30 January 2021||January 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Of baths and prisons||A trip to Turkey inspired Etisha Pipada to use a 400-year-old Ottoman weaving technique in craft luxury towels. Made with GOTS-certified organic cotton sourced from the Black Sea region, they are priced from Rs. 5,500 to Rs. 19,500. On luxury.tatacliq.com. For their new collection, Freedom Manchaha, Jaipur Rugs has collaborated with long-term inmates from prisons across Rajasthan. The pieces have been designed by the inmates, using hand-spun leftover yarn from carpet production. On jaipurrugs.com from Rs. 66,000.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/of-baths-and-prisons/article33700878.ece
30 January 2021||January 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Girl power at Sundance||Like many other global events, the ongoing Sundance Film Festival is having its first virtual showcase. Interestingly, 47% of the films in competition are directed by women, including debuts by Rebecca Hall (Passing) and Robin Wright (Land). Till February 3 on fpg.festival.sundance.org. The 13th edition of the Bengaluru International Film Festival will take place offline in April, with safety precautions in place. The last date for submissions under the Asian, Indian and Kannada cinema categories is February 8. Details: biffes.org||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/girl-power-at-sundance/article33700879.ece
30 January 2021||January 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Famous voices||After more than 175 million views on YouTube alone, talk show host Siddharth Kannan’s new podcast features the who’s who of entertainment.Kandid Kannanhas already had Varun Dhawan, Bhumi Pednekar, Arjun Rampal and others. Every Friday, on ivmpodcasts.com. Meanwhile, as Amazon’s audiobook platform, Audible, rivals Spotify with a new lineup of podcasts, the music streaming site is testing nine classic audiobooks, includingJane Eyreread by Sarah Coombs andFrankensteinread by David Dobrik.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/famous-voices/article33700872.ece
30 January 2021||January 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Wanderlust in a bus||After a road trip to London, Gurugram-based travel agency Adventures Overland has announced a bus to Singapore. Covering India, Myanmar, Thailand, Malaysia and Singapore — 4,500 km in 20 days — the bus will leave from Imphal on November 14, 2021. At Rs. 6.25 lakh per person. Details: bustosingapore.com. Elemental Adventure offers heli-skiing in Manali, Himachal Pradesh. High season, which begins this weekend and continues till April 3, has packages starting from Rs. 7.52 lakh. eaheliskiing.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/wanderlust-in-a-bus/article33700873.ece
30 January 2021||January 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Lubna Chowdhary: Switching identities||Code switch. The word doesn’t immediately call to mind a work of art; in fact, in linguistics, code-switching is when ‘a speaker alternates between two or more languages in the context of a single conversation’. But for Lubna Chowdhary, 57, it is vital to her artistic practice — to find common ground between “various binaries such as art and craft, East and West, industrial and handmade, ornamental excess and minimal restraint” — and her identity as a member of the Diaspora. The London-based artist often explores hybridity. Her work, Metropolis , for which she made over 1,000 miniature clay sculptures (that travelled from the Victoria and Albert Museum all the way to the Kochi-Muziris Biennale in 2018), looked at the “hybrid languages of making”, while Tableaux (showcased at Jhaveri Contemporary’s booth at Art Basel Hong Kong in 2019) focussed on architectural juxtaposition — think steel-and-glass skyscrapers and bamboo scaffolding. For her latest work, however, she has scrutinised the calibration between the spiritual and the commercial. As a Muslim who grew up in a country where Christianity is the official religion, she has absorbed diverse iconographies over the years. “I’m also interested in Hindu iconographies... particularity wayside shrines and how something as simple as a stone or a tree could become a spiritual object because someone decided to imbue it with a spiritual strength,” Chowdhary tells me over phone from her home in south-west London, recalling a temple trail in South India in the 90s, exploring the sculptures in Hampi and the gopurams in Madurai. She overlays the spiritual with the symbolic language of consumerism, with its symbols and logos, which has almost become a new religion. “I’m curious about the points at which these beliefs and processes intersect,” says the artist, who spent much of 2020 in her studio at the bottom of her garden, glazing and firing ceramic tiles, laser-cutting CAD drawings made on wooden boards, and painstakingly pasting industrial stickers on graph paper to explore these intersections. Excerpts from an edited interview:  I s the concept of code switching integral to who you are? Yes. Though it is a term that I came across not so long ago, I realised that I’ve constantly been doing this: moving between cultures, between identities, adapting depending on the situation I’m in. There is this constant code switching between language, culture, aesthetics, identity, dress, lifestyle. The hybrid aesthetic of the work emerges from the contradictory state of being both inside and outside [cultures] as a result of my Diasporic experience. My own transcultural condition — of having been born in Africa to parents from India/Pakistan [born in Punjab and who migrated during Partition], moving to the industrial north of England in the 70s at the age of five, then studying in London — has resulted in a complex narrative of origin. Even in the world of craft, where I began my artistic career, there were these extremes of aesthetic that I was caught between. What concepts did you build Code Switch  around?  Code Switch probes ideas related to meaning-making through secular and spiritual objects of worship. Religion is now a meaningless preoccupation to many people. It is rapidly becoming replaced by a more commercial iconography. This raised questions about values and rituals that shape people’s lives today. My 16-year-old son’s experience of life is very different to mine. He’s quite obsessed with logos and branding, as much as any other teenager. I got to thinking about how to find some sort of resolution between these. There are many curious instances where consumerism and religion overlap. For example, in India, gods are cheaply mass produced from plaster in vinyl moulds; Mecca’s religious tourism offers 7-star hotels for Hajj pilgrims; and in China, paper votives of items such as Gucci bags and Porsche cars are burnt as funeral offerings. Did the pandemic impact how the work evolved?  I feel that the pandemic consolidated my thinking about meaning in people’s lives. As a society, we began to question our norms. Issues of community, race, well-being, ecology and interconnectedness moved to the forefront of our consciousness. Last year, fast cars got dusty and expensive handbags lay symbolically powerless. Consumption now is increasingly about the non-material, such as culture, experiences. People have started to realise that they have to find something else in their lives. There is a sort of irony in it. What are you working on now?  I’ve got my first solo show in England coming up soon. I’m going to be making large three-dimensional work in wood [along with some ceramic work]. I wanted to explore a new material. The wooden body of work has come out of a residency I did about three years ago at the V&A Museum, where I spent a lot of time researching hybrid furniture. These had been made in India for colonial subjects. But the two cultures were so different — with India being a floor-based culture, and England, where people didn’t sit on the ground. So there was a lack of understanding that resulted in objects that had Indian aesthetics but British functionality. There was an awkwardness to them. I was particularly drawn to these because there were lots of parallels to the work that I was making.  Code Switch will be   exhibited at Jhaveri Contemporary, Mumbai, till February 27.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/lubna-chowdhary-switching-identities/article33700547.ece
30 January 2021||January 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Quotes to live by for 2021||I’ve been receiving feedback from my readers — by which I mean my mother-in-law and my istriwallah , Marimuthu — that my columns are becoming too cynical for my own good. And perhaps I need to find aguru/life coach who will correct my faulty thinking and make me see the good around me. I can’t thank both of them enough for pointing me in the direction of His Divine Wiseness Dr Funky Astral Kumar. Because I am a changed man. I see the light. And I want to start 2021 on a positive note by sharing some of my teacher’s best quotes and atone for the sins of my previous columns.  Pleasure and Pain  Whatever brings you great pleasure can also bring you great pain. Like flaky Malabar parotta . Or slim-fit pants. Or eating the former while wearing the latter.  Others  Nothing in the world can bring you down as much as your own mind. You think others are bringing you down, but there are no others, it is your own mind. Sometimes, of course, it could be that fellow Nehru.  Limits  If you think you are big, you become small. If you accept you are nothing, you become everything. If you think you are Medium, you are most likely XXL.  Indecision  In theGita, Lord Krishna says the worst crime in the world is indecision. Indigestion is a close second, says Kumbhakarna, though not in theGita.  Listening  Listen to others; yet do not listen. If your mind gets stuck in their problems, not only are they miserable but you become miserable, too. Unless you are in a bar. And they are paying. Then you order an 18-year-old single malt and say, ‘Tell me more.’  Joy and Truth  Deep inside your gut are truth, light, love and joy. That is why you need to do an endoscopy from time to time.  Past and Present  Don’t waste today over what happened yesterday. Wait till tomorrow and think of day-before-yesterday. Or the other way round if you have a time machine.  Success  The only time you fail is when you fall down and stay down. True success is getting up and running away from the problem.  Privilege  When you arise in the morning think of what a privilege it is to be alive, to think, to enjoy, to love and to have someone to blame.  Being Human  We are not human beings having a spiritual experience. We are not spiritual beings having a human inexperience. We are Neanderthals who have lost our fur.  Meaning  Life is far beyond meaning. Life is beyond meaning and that’s why it is so beautiful. That’s why we don’t know what covfefe means.  Awakening  Awakening is not changing who you are, but discarding who you are not. But for that, the isabgol has to work.  Retreat  Within you there is a stillness and a sanctuary to which you can retreat at any time and be yourself. But if you want to see Disha Patani, you have to go to Maldives.  Laughter  Fools laugh at others. Wisdom laughs at itself. Archana Puran Singh laughs at everything.  The Unknown  A single event can awaken within us a stranger totally unknown to us. That is why you never mix gin with whisky.  Universe  Relax into the moment and let the universe do the driving. But make sure your insurance is up to date.  Relaxation  If you are in the obituary page, it means you can relax. Krishna Shastri Devulapalli is a satirist. He has written four books and edited an anthology.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/quotes-to-live-by-for-2021/article33700498.ece
30 January 2021||January 30 2021 00:00 IST,||How to catch a star||Earlier this year, the revered French chef Pierre Koffmann made a prediction in Caterer magazine. He said his protégée, chef Sameer Taneja, who had taken charge at the restaurant Benares in 2019, would win it a Michelin star. Koffmann’s judgement was on point. This week, as the famous red book announced its lists for the UK and Ireland in an unusual online ceremony, Benares earned a one star — the only Indian restaurant of the seven new entrants to the ‘one star’ list in London. (Amaya, Veeraswamy, Quilon, Trishna and Gymkhana have retained their one star apiece, too.) Koffmann’s confidence may have stemmed from the food he had been sampling as Taneja went about reworking Benares’ menu, shifting its focus from what had sometimes been dubbed “Frenchified” to dishes that still fit the bill of “inventive” but are also deeply rooted in regional Indian home cooking. “Our food is truthful, the spicing correct and we take pains to create flavours as they would be in their home states, though we are creative and use high quality European ingredients. We do not cook to suit the tastes of a particular audience,” says Taneja, for whom the honour is an affirmation of a long journey from the kitchens of The Oberoi Rajvilas as a chef trained in French food to being the understudy of the likes of Koffmann before shifting to what he terms “my own food”. Dropping French for Indian “When I started and worked at Rajvilas, I am ashamed to say, I thought French food was superior and, to be a great chef, you needed to cook it. For 10 years, I worked in top restaurants, including three Michelin star restaurants, to perfect my cooking. Finally, it was Pierre Koffmann, in whose kitchen I was working, who told me, ‘Sameer, you need to cook your own food,’” says Taneja. “I don’t know if he meant it in a good or bad way, but I realised I needed to work with flavours and spices that were intrinsic to my identity,” he adds. Taneja was lucky to be picked up around this time as head chef for Benares under Atul Kochhar, though he was not an Indian chef. He learnt on the job and four years later left to head Talli Joe in 2016, where he created a playful menu based on comfort Indian food. With Kochhar leaving Benares in 2018, the restaurant that had been a leader of formal, plated modern-Indian food in London, lost its one star and its sheen, though it continued to be one of the most expensive Indian restaurants in London (and still is with dinner at around £110-£120 per head). Taneja was hired for the top job a year later and has been reworking the menu with endearing humility. Under him, team members are encouraged to bring home food to the restaurant for everyone to share. New dishes are created using these flavours as a base. There are other examples of inventiveness with home cooking. A best-selling oyster and sun breamchaatthat Taneja created, he credits (on Instagram) to one of my home recipes —panna pakorithat he had tasted at my pop-up in London in the summer of 2019. Prizing comfort The move towards more nuanced Indian gastronomy has been picking up steam in London for a while and seems to have intensified through the pandemic with people seeking a sense of comfort and rootedness. Benares’ ‘at home’ menu and uber popularthalis, which are 2020 additions, respond to these changes. In the post-Covid world, this may be a direction to take as formal dining gets upended. That the Michelin guide, long accused of awarding primarily white table-clothed gastronomy with a French bias, has recognised this shift now is a positive note — in line with the three stars for trailblazing chefs Hélène Darroze at The Connaught and Clare Smyth at Core (the only two new restaurants to get three stars). Both are women, which should be incidental but is important because of recent spotlight on the history of gendered inequality in restaurant kitchens. Critics of the Michelin Guide in the past have questioned its relevance in times when audiences have been moving to casual dining. From a business point of view, restaurateurs in Europe I spoke with say it helps establishments when they are above a certain price point and trying to gain more of a travelling audience. How influential the guide remains and what patterns diners follow may change in the post-Covid world. However, for now, for chefs like Taneja, the stars are real. Badges that affirm not merely prestige but their own quality.  Anoothi Vishal is a Delhi-based food writer and author.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/how-to-catch-a-star/article33700484.ece
30 January 2021||January 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Short and sweet||If the past two weeks of my life are any indication, then 2021 is off to a galloping start. I’ve been on a two-day trip to Goa, followed by a dash to Jaipur, ending with a family wedding in the picturesque town of Mahabaleshwar. I’ve done more Covid tests in the past one month than I did all of last year! The travel and near-constant mask wearing has gifted me a spate of acne that would put any teenager to shame. Goa didn’t beckon for its nightlife. Instead, I went to meet a famous Ayurveda doctor, whom many of my pals had been recommending for years. Dr Sudhindra Uppoor set up the Ayurshree Ayurveda clinic in 2004 and today has a fan following akin to pop stars. His trips to Delhi and Mumbai are booked solid; wealthy families and politicians fly him and his wife Hema, who manages the clinic, across India for weeks at a time. While I was aware of his popularity, it was only after spending time with my friend Vasu Gandhi over the Christmas holidays that I decided to seek him out. She had done a two-week detox at the clinic and was glowing. Even though there was nothing wrong with me physically, one can always improve one’s well-being. Meanwhile, my parents thought I was being ridiculous and couldn’t understand the need for this “unnecessary travel”. So there I was, over the Pongal holiday, in Calangute, in a small office adjacent to a crowded parking lot filled with tour buses. “Why don’t you move?” I asked Hema, motioning with my eyes at the chaos outside. “So many people have asked us to, but we are happy here,” she replied. I felt somewhat chastened and decided to keep my big city mouth shut. Dr Uppoor was a kind looking man who asked me a few questions, then had me remove my mask, felt my pulse and examined my tongue. Since I didn’t have the time to stay and do a week or two week cleanse, he suggested a 45-day diet re-set. So out goes all raw foods, millets, and cruciferous vegetables. Instead, I had to re-embrace wheat, rice and diary. Oh and I can drink a bit of wine and Champagne — he really is a good doctor. I’ll let you know how I feel after 45 days. Last week I was back in Jaipur after a year. “Jaipur is filled with an eclectic mix of creative individuals,” noted my friend, Tahir Sultan. “It is a destination for people from all over the world.” Which is why he saw an opportunity to change the food scene. So in the midst of the pandemic, Tahir set up a food catering business alongside his other projects and now lives between Delhi and the Pink City, feeding the fashionable set in both cities. I was accompanying another friend, Cecilia Morelli, who owns the Mumbai concept store Le Mill. She needed a wingwoman and I was looking for furniture. Between hunting for household goods, jewellery, carpets and textiles and meeting an eclectic group of Europeans and Indian transplants, it was heaven. We managed to have a drink at the Polo Bar at the Rambagh hotel with our friends, art consultant Noelle Kadar and jeweller Akshat Ghiya, dine on delicious home food at the farm of Sid Kasliwal of Gem Palace and meet designers Marie-Anne Oudejans, Thierry Journo, Marie-Hélène de Taillac and Simon Marks. There’s nothing like a wedding to affirm the future. My niece Dhwani Kothari’s wedding in Mahabaleshwar was a small, intimate affair. The surrounding hills were the perfect setting, with lush vegetation and cool evenings. Everything was outdoors, and all events ended by 10 pm. Now that’s one Covid-related development I wouldn’t mind adhering to post pandemic.  This fortnightly column tracks the indulgent pursuits of the one-percenters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/short-and-sweet/article33700541.ece
30 January 2021||January 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Inside LVMH Watch Week 2021||The mood was upbeat on Monday as LVMH Watch Week 2021 opened to press and retailers. In their dark suits and open collar shirts (except for Bulgari chief, Jean-Christophe Babin, who retained his tie), the luxury conglomerate’s watch bosses were all set for a repeat performance of last year’s Watch Week at Dubai’s Bulgari Resort. At the time, they had outsmarted the competition by showcasing their novelties in person, just before the Covid-19 pandemic kicked in. This time, of course, it was virtual, putting their presentation skills to the test. Taking viewers into their manufacturing facilities, each CEO highlighted innovations. While Bulgari’s Babin discussed the new silver dial steel model of the Octo Finissimo S, Hublot’s CEO Ricardo Guadalupe talked about micro rotors and their industrialisation of sapphire. Julien Tornare of Zenith, LVMH’s smallest watch brand, said he was banking on the Chronomaster Sport, a stainless steel chronograph that is immediately available in stores.The Hindu Weekend’s pick from the showcase of limited editions: Read the complete report online at weekend.thehindu.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/inside-lvmh-watch-week-2021/article33700558.ece
30 January 2021||January 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Joy of a beginner’s mind||“We should not hoard knowledge; we should be free from our knowledge.” A quote from the book Zen Mind, Beginner’s Mind by Shunryū Suzuki proposes that everything must be approached with the unburdened perspective of a beginner’s mind. I’m never one for New Year resolutions, but after 2020 transformed the way we live, we cannot go into ’21 with the patina of yesteryear. So freeing myself from previous knowledge, thereby keeping my mind fresh is my only resolution. And just a month into this year, my new perspective is already making me reassess my health and beauty goals. This year began with a cold, winter downpour in Delhi, which meant I had to forsake regular walks — my only exercise in 2020 — and go back to yoga. Last year, I’d stopped my asana practise completely. After multiple surgeries for endometriosis, it became a trigger that caused pain. But life has a way of bringing back things that are meant for you. Because of the continuous downpour, I restarted yoga. Slowly, gently, respecting every signal to pull back, getting reacquainted with my body, with a beginner’s mind. Learning anew is the theme of this year. Since I need to build muscle as I shift closer to 50, a weekly weight-training session is on the agenda. If yoga doesn’t work out, I may take up running — something I never wanted to do because it makes the glutes less flexible. But as my priorities shift from grounding my heels in downward dog to ageing with grace and strength, I prefer to work on muscle, balance and stamina, instead of flexibility, which isn’t very useful in everyday life. My goals are changing in skincare, too. From using gentle formulations, I now want something stronger to reduce the first signs of sagging. For this I’m revisiting tretinoin, retinol’s most potent and effective version, which dramatically improves texture, tone and elasticity. Just like yoga, my previous experience with it was marred with rookie mistakes such as over-applying, too much, too often. But now that I’m researching the ingredient with fresh eyes I know how to use it better. One of the things I learnt after going down the rabbit hole of Reddit threads was that tretinoin has a gentler, micronised version. In Retino-A Micro, the tretinoin is released slowly over the night as compared to Retino-A, the old variation, which releases it all at once, causing dryness, sensitivity and purging. My dermatologist recommends that all forms of tretinoin must be used as ‘short contact therapy’. So I started by applying the 0.04% strength for 20 minutes and slowly increased the time till now when I can apply it every alternate night. After vitamin C, this is the second time that I’ve been surprised by a skincare ingredient. In just over a month, my skin is smoother, clearer and perhaps, even a bit tauter. With tretinoin, I’m also learning that effective skincare needn’t be more expensive. Retino-A Micro costs about Rs. 350, Emolene an excellent, basic moisturiser around Rs. 200, and Re’quil, my new favourite sunscreen, less than Rs. 500. Could this be the year I start budgeting my skincare? Now that would be a real transformation. Whatever 2021 may bring, one thing is certain, we cannot be blindfolded by the things that we knew before. Does this mean we should discount our previous learnings? No, but we must be prepared for the unpredictable by reworking important aspects — health, beauty, careers and relationships — with a fresh perspective, suitable for this brand new world. So, as we enter the year, I want to leave you with this quote: “If your mind is empty, it is ready for anything, it is open to everything. In the beginner's mind there are many possibilities, but in the expert’s mind there are few.” A column to remind you about all things skin deep.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/joy-of-a-beginners-mind/article33700487.ece
30 January 2021||January 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Pashmina meets metallic polymers||Last Diwali, Amit Aggarwal was gifted a beautiful pashmina shawl by his friend Sugandha Kedia. The fashion designer, who is an avid collector of shawls, “absolutely fell in love with it”. A thank you call soon turned into a conversation about Kedia’s one-year-old brand Dusala Kashmir — which supports over 50 pashmina weavers — and ended with the idea for a collaboration. “It wasn’t planned, but the mutual love for textiles brought us together,” says Aggarwal from New Delhi. The objective was to enhance the traditional pashmina weave and patterns with his signature metallic polymer yarn. Once the mood board and colour story were set, the design — a mix of earth and jewel tones featuring tile patterns and architecture from Kashmir — was finalised. Each shawl took about 20 days to make from start to finish, and once the weavers were done, his atelier added the surface embellishments. The final Amit Aggarwal x Dusala collection includes shawls, saris and stoles, “the best garments to showcase pashmina”. Woollen saris and romance Surprisingly, Kedia did not have to spend too much time convincing the weavers to push their boundaries. “When we explained what Amit wanted to do in terms of design, they were hooked,” says the 33-year-old fashion entrepreneur, who switched careers from TV journalism to start the multi-designer store, One, in Raipur in 2017. The saris in the collection are versatile, featuring an elongated pallu made of pashmina that can be wrapped around the body for warmth. “The rest of it is fabric like silk or organza. The saris can also be draped with the pashmina as the bottom pleats,” Aggarwal explains. Making this collab even more personal for Aggarwal is the fact that his long-time partner Ankit Chawla shot the campaign pictures. “Winters are when I feel the most romantic,” laughs the designer, adding, “So when I had the chance to work with him on this towards the end of last year, I wanted to tell our story.” It isn’t your typical fashion photography (Chawla specialises in portraits), and the locations across Delhi, where the images were shot, are integral to their love story. Meanwhile, Aggarwal, who believes that his futuristic gowns have evolved over the past year — “our festive line has a lot more inferences from Indian art” — he states they will retain the signature brand look. He is also working on a home décor and accessory line but can’t divulge any details. “It is in a very nascent stage, but I feel that the kind of detailing and structuring we do will lend itself very well to these,” he concludes. Stoles from Rs. 45,000, saris and bridal shawls from Rs. 1.69 lakh and Rs. 1.55 lakh respectively, on dusala.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/pashmina-meets-metallic-polymers/article33700496.ece
30 January 2021||January 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Gosh, let them play||When the lockdown began last year, one of the things Gayatri and Karthik Srinivasan’s four-year-old daughter, Akira, missed most was the sand pit at her Montessori school. With a new baby on the way and the family spending all their time at home, Karthik (who, along with Gayatri, runs Oddity, a design practice in Bengaluru) began building custom furniture products for Akira. Now, they’re sharing these pieces with others through their new brand, Gosh. This includes The Cocoon, a circular table with slots and alcoves where a child can sit on the floor and have enough room to spread out books and stationery. Then there is the Big Little Artist Table or BLAT!, that comes with a seemingly never-ending roll of paper and slots to hold paintbrushes and containers of water. And, of course, the Beach-in-a-Box, a portable sand pit. “The seeds for Gosh were sown before the pandemic, as we were constantly on the lookout for furniture for Akira,” says Gayatri. “The overwhelming response to these products when I shared them on Instagram made us realise that there was a huge gap in the market for imaginative children’s furniture.” Waste to wonder Initially, Karthik built the products at home using waste wood from previous projects. With more demand, they have moved operations to their factory, aided by a team. They eschew tones like teak, opting instead for light-coloured wood such as rubber and pine. “Everyone is sick of dark furniture with everything looking like it is from the library,” laughs Karthik, as Gayatri adds that you do not want dark and heavy furniture for a child’s room. Minor customisations are accommodated for each piece, as every child has different needs. “One of the insights we have had is that people are hesitant about buying children’s furniture because they outgrow it. We wanted to see if we could make small modifications so that they can be used for longer. In the interests of sustainability, we’re also planning to buy back furniture, which can then be upcycled or reused,” she says, concluding that their future plans include making inclusive furniture for children with developmental difficulties as well as pet furniture. From Rs. 3,000 to Rs. 30,000 on gosh.world. Each order takes three weeks to complete; currently shipping only in Bengaluru.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/gosh-let-them-play/article33700491.ece
30 January 2021||January 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Women in music: Life on the indie stage||In the autumn of 2016, Shilpa Natarajan flouted the unwritten rule that “women artistes are expected to wear dresses and heels”, and showed up on stage in pyjamas and a T-shirt. “This pressure to dress up and look a particular way is not on male artistes,” says the Chennai-based vocalist and composer, who had opened the Mainstage Festival in Chennai with her parody band, Beef Sapad Trio (BST). When organisers asked her if she would change, she simply stated it was her costume as Barbie Q, her alias when she performs with BST. In the year gone by, when everything had turned digital, this divide was even more stark. Female artistes were particularly disadvantaged because of trolling. American singer Monica Dogra had posted on feeling insecure about her career (because of social media trolls), while Mumbai-based singer Aditi Ramesh spoke about fielding unpleasant emojis and comments while on a live gig for Vh1. “As a female musician, I’ve heard the words, ‘You’re a girl; people listen to your music because of your looks. Men are the ones really struggling’, more than once. To a teenager finding her way, it is not difficult to let these ideas under your skin and wonder if you’re worth anything,” says upcoming Bengaluru-based vocalist, Frizzell D’Souza. So, how are women changing the narrative in 2021? Today, more and more female musicians are subverting the politics and economics of the Indian independent scene by reclaiming their agency. Like Mumbai-based hip-hop artiste Ashwini Hiremath, who goes by the stage name Krantinaari, and rapper Pratika Prabhune, of the hip-hop collective Won Tribe. They are working on the release of a rap song titled ‘ Raja Beta ’, which is “inspired by many incidents that took place last year when patriarchy overtook social justice and even law enforcement”. Elsewhere, Sonia Acharya, director of Women of Rhythm, India’s largest organisation of female drummers, has a fixed fee for her upcoming artistes, which is at par with what male artistes are paid.  Raising questions  Indie music in India gained momentum only as recently as a decade ago, with a steady increase in the number of music festivals. And it is still far from being woke. As a woman music journalist, and former editor of Rolling Stone magazine’s India edition, I was accustomed to the scene being a boys’ club. From gig photographers and artiste managers to event managers and technicians to journalists and artistes, men outnumbered women. Back then it didn’t cross my mind to question the status quo or bring up topics like body shaming or pay parity. It was in 2012 that I first learnt of a sexual harassment case in the music industry, only to find that few men would step up and support the victim. She was advised against going to court and warned that things would get messy if she filed a case. “The organisation where I was employed stopped working with the man [an event and artiste manager], but they didn’t want to get involved if I filed a case,” says the victim, who wishes to remain anonymous. It wasn’t until the #MeToo movement in 2018 that women musicians, and journalists like me, began talking about these happenings.   B ody positive   No woman artiste, be it a global music sensation or a local indie vocalist, is spared the indignity of being questioned about how she looks or what she wears. Grammy-nominated sitarist , Anoushka Shankar, recently lashed out at a troll who commented on a photo that she had posted on her social media page. “If you visit the social profiles of female artistes, you will see how audiences are driven towards their physical appeal more than anything else, an inherent trait of a patriarchal society. The viewership on videos and photos will be skyrocketing, while their musical content is often ignored,” says rapper Prabhune. “Sometimes the content isn’t even up to the mark. I think that comes from our habit of ‘social ranking’, ‘influencing’, and straight up objectification of women [something that is absent among Hindustani and Carnatic musicians, where prowess is valued]. Seldom are women appreciated solely for their music or art.”  Calling out oppression  However, women are now leading the change both on stage and off it. “It is only when women write or post something that challenges the norms that they are trolled. But this, in turn, exposes double standards and triggers conversations around sexism, which will bring about change,” says Acharya. Lawyer Priyanka Khimani, chairperson of Women in Music’s (WIM) India chapter (started in 2019), is one such ‘warrior’. Though the pandemic has delayed her plans, she says this year “my focus will be on addressing practical work-life issues. For starters: creating a membership-based access to legal support so that all artistes can have access to advice and assistance while negotiating deals”. Globally, WIM has set up mentorship programmes for women, created campaigns to represent women artistes at music conferences, and launched a video series to support victims of sexual harassment. Companies with women in leadership positions are also building a stronger support system for their peers. Digital music network TuneCore’s country head in India, Heena Kriplani, has an equal opportunity workspace ever since she joined the company in January 2020. “I use my station to showcase women at every opportunity. I’m a firm believer in a 50% representation model. When people say ‘Let the best man win,’ what they don’t get is the years of unequal opportunity it has taken to make that man the best,” she says. “Equilibrium more than equality is important. It will take a lot of muscle to even out the playing field and it is on all of us to do it,” adds Mumbai-based Kriplani, who has been part of the music industry for two decades.  The writer is an independent journalist and a faculty of journalism at FLAME University.   “I feel that there has been some progress [in tackling sexual harassment], but it is not enough. Having said that, my former manager worked at OML [after 2018]. From taking care of daily stressful situations to providing counselling, I really appreciated how the organisation tried to make her and the other women who worked there feel comfortable”  Ankur Tewari , singer, songwriter and composer   “There is a huge gender gap in the indie music scene and it is not because of lack of talent. It is a lack of exposure and the attitude of men. Creating more opportunities hasn’t been top of mind for many of us and it should be”  Jishnu Dasgupta , bassist of Bengaluru folk rock band, Swarathma||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/women-in-music-life-on-the-indie-stage/article33700526.ece
30 January 2021||January 30 2021 00:00 IST,||In the spirit of recycling||A few weeks ago, Diageo — the name behind leading alcohol brands such as Johnnie Walker, Guinness and Smirnoff — released an ad featuring an anxious couple floating in a pod in outer space. Released as part of Johnnie Walker’s ‘Keep Walking’ series, it ends with several such pods descending on to a planet sans humans while a voiceover says, ‘Coming back means reliving everything again like it is the first time’. The ad that ends with ‘the next 200 years are just beginning’ is both symbolic of the year in lockdown and a hint at their upcoming plans to go green. In a recent interview with Campaign India, Nitesh Chhapru, VP at Diageo India, said that by 2021 ‘we will be launching our first 100% plastic-free, paper-based packaging, a first for the premium spirits category’. And now, with the second leg of #WalkInWithJohnnie campaign, the brand is bringing to the fore the rather lesser-known concept of glass recycling in India by including their consumers. So the next time you empty your bottle of scotch, you needn’t forcefully turn it into yet another planter or feel guilty about binning it. Instead, drop it off at designated bars in exchange for a Striding Man souvenir — something that many, including the likes of actors Jim Sarbh, Kriti Kharbanda, Malaika Arora Khan promoted back in November. The bottles collected so far are being turned into glass installations (of the Striding Man) by artists such as Tyrell Valladares of MetalHead, Mumbai, Romicon Revola and others. Valladares’ 6.5 foot creation — made using 500+ bottles and weighing 150 kg — unveiled at Estella in Mumbai last week, is the first of many permanent installations that will be displayed at select bars in Mumbai, Gurgaon, Hyderabad, Bengaluru and Kolkata. Abhishek Shahabadi, Vice President and Portfolio Head, Premium & Luxury Brands, Diageo India, says, “Over the course of the campaign, we’ve seen 5,000+ walk-ins with empty bottles across 52 bars in 14 cities. The names of all the patrons who have contributed their empty bottles are etched on each of these installations as a celebration of them taking a stance to keep walking.”  The Sepoy collab  In a similar vein, Angad Soni of Sepoy & Co — known for their tonic water and mixers — is all set to launch their Rethink Repurpose campaign on February 1. In collaboration with Udit Singhal’s Glass2Sand initiative, it will first take off in the capital and NCR region. “Over the past two years, we got a number of customer queries on how they could reuse bottles or if there was any return policy. These questions led us to look for a solution,” says Soni, 37, who was introduced to 19-year-old Singhal in August last year. Singhal says Sepoy customers can contact them once they have 50 bottles , and this is not limited to just Sepoy’s containers. “These will be either collected by us or can be dropped off at our location for disposal. The bottles are then crushed into high-grade silica sand in under five seconds that can used in construction, as furnace lining, for roads, etc.” In the two years since the launch, close to 14,000 glass bottles have been recycled at Glass2Sand. “We pay Rs. 2 per kilo to those who deliver the bottles to our facility,” adds Singhal, who sourced his machine from New Zealand.  Return, don’t dump  He also addresses the rather unorganised recycling system in India. “Here, only large beverage companies like Coca-Cola and Pepsi have a system of reuse. As these empties are handpicked for quality, a majority is dumped back in the landfills,” explains Singhal, who was selected as one of 17 Young Leaders for Sustainable Development Goals 2020 by the UN. Currently operational only in New Delhi, he says Mumbai, Bengaluru, Kolkata and Chennai are on his radar. Meanwhile, Sepoy & Co’s Soni is hopeful that their campaign over the next few months will give them a better perspective on public response. “We’ve already received requests via social media to launch the initiative in Mumbai and Bengaluru,” he concludes.  To drop off bottles for Sepoy & Co’s campaign, call 9810008289 or visit glass2sand.in    I had a vision to create an illuminated art piece and to bring it to life was definitely a challenge. Not only was breaking the glass time consuming but it was also difficult to get the right size of each piece. It was important to keep the look and feel in line with the creative concept along with controlling the weight of the installation. From conceptualizing, research and completion of the entire artwork, it took me approximately 18-20 days to bring alive the life-size Striding Man.   - Tyrell Valladares, Sculptor and proprietor, MetalHead, Mumbai||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/in-the-spirit-of-recycling/article33700531.ece
30 January 2021||January 30 2021 00:00 IST,||A 100% recycled bottle and luxe gifting||If you’re in the mood for something retro, check out the Vintage Radio Satchel Bag by Paul Adams with soft Napa leather and hand-painted acrylic art. A part of the brand’s Leather Pop Collection, it features intricate trim detail on the edges, a removable strap, a debossed logo on the shoulder strap, and golden brass hardware.Rs. 31,959 on pauladamsworld.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/a-100-recycled-bottle-and-luxe-gifting/article33700534.ece
30 January 2021||January 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Louis Vuitton’s cruise collection||Louis Vuitton has rolled out a collection just in time for Valentine’s Day. The Nicolas Ghesquière’s Cruise 2021 line features sling bags, luggage tags and more, adorned with Monogram flowers and four suits of a card deck. As per the French fashion house’s website, Ghesquière ‘plays with the contradiction of a stationary journey’ for his latest collection. eu.louisvuitton.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/louis-vuittons-cruise-collection/article33700536.ece
30 January 2021||January 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Famous voices||After more than 175 million views on YouTube alone, talk show host Siddharth Kannan’s new podcast features the who’s who of entertainment.Kandid Kannanhas already had Varun Dhawan, Bhumi Pednekar, Arjun Rampal and others. Every Friday, on ivmpodcasts.com. Meanwhile, as Amazon’s audiobook platform, Audible, rivals Spotify with a new lineup of podcasts, the music streaming site is testing nine classic audiobooks, includingJane Eyreread by Sarah Coombs andFrankensteinread by David Dobrik.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/famous-voices/article33700502.ece
30 January 2021||January 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Wanderlust in a bus||After a road trip to London, Gurugram-based travel agency Adventures Overland has announced a bus to Singapore. Covering India, Myanmar, Thailand, Malaysia and Singapore — 4,500 km in 20 days — the bus will leave from Imphal on November 14, 2021. At Rs. 6.25 lakh per person. Details: bustosingapore.com. Elemental Adventure offers heli-skiing in Manali, Himachal Pradesh. High season, which begins this weekend and continues till April 3, has packages starting from Rs. 7.52 lakh. eaheliskiing.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/wanderlust-in-a-bus/article33700504.ece
30 January 2021||January 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Finding purpose in a cup||Conscious personal care brand The Switch Fix and Blue Tokai are repurposing coffee waste into co-branded body scrubs. The two vegan and cruelty-free variants — priced at Rs. 489 each — are available at Blue Tokai outlets and theswitchfix.co. Looking for make-up formulated for Indian skin tones? Hyderabad-based entrepreneur Tanisha Valralwar has launched organic beauty brand Tsara Cosmetics, with 10 liquid lip shades — including browns, peaches and reds, the most popular being mauve. At Rs. 1,100 on tsaracosmetics.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/finding-purpose-in-a-cup/article33700506.ece
30 January 2021||January 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Weekend theatre||Mumbai-based theatre company Aarambh presentsBandish 20-20,000 Hz, a Hindi play by playwright Purva Naresh. The pre-recorded show features music composed by Hindustani classical singer Shubha Mudgal. Today and tomorrow at 6.50 pm. Tickets from Rs. 399 on insider.in. Join the Auroville Theatre Group for a virtual staging ofRed Bike, a one-man show written by playwright Caridad Svich. It is a story of hope amidst despair in small-town America. Today at 7 pm. Tickets at Rs. 200 on in.bookmyshow.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/weekend-theatre/article33700510.ece
30 January 2021||January 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Stream easy||Tory Belleci fromMythBustersand Richard Hammond fromThe Grand Tourare shipwrecked on a remote island inThe Great Escapists. The duo uses their engineering and scientific skills to not only survive, but to construct a paradise island playground. On Amazon Prime. Meanwhile, Chaitanya Tamhane’s Marathi film, The Disciple, which debuted at the 77th Venice Film Festival last year, winning the International Critics Prize and Best Screenplay honour, has been acquired by Netflix. The release date will be announced shortly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/stream-easy/article33700512.ece
30 January 2021||January 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Of baths and prisons||A trip to Turkey inspired Etisha Pipada to use a 400-year-old Ottoman weaving technique in craft luxury towels. Made with GOTS-certified organic cotton sourced from the Black Sea region, they are priced from Rs. 5,500 to Rs. 19,500. On luxury.tatacliq.com. For their new collection, Freedom Manchaha, Jaipur Rugs has collaborated with long-term inmates from prisons across Rajasthan. The pieces have been designed by the inmates, using hand-spun leftover yarn from carpet production. On jaipurrugs.com from Rs. 66,000.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/of-baths-and-prisons/article33700514.ece
30 January 2021||January 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Girl power at Sundance||Like many other global events, the ongoing Sundance Film Festival is having its first virtual showcase. Interestingly, 47% of the films in competition are directed by women, including debuts by Rebecca Hall (Passing) and Robin Wright (Land). Till February 3 on fpg.festival.sundance.org. The 13th edition of the Bengaluru International Film Festival will take place offline in April, with safety precautions in place. The last date for submissions under the Asian, Indian and Kannada cinema categories is February 8. Details: biffes.org||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/girl-power-at-sundance/article33700516.ece
30 January 2021||January 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Scammed while moving house?||In November last year, Meera Mohanty booked the services of a popular relocation company when she was returning from Orissa to Tamil Nadu. “I hired Agarwal Packers and Movers Ltd. They convinced me to book a separate container, which they said I could lock. But it eventually came with its contents soaking wet. Despite the clear understanding that they would be doing the unpacking — which included reassembling the bed — I ended up doing most of it myself. I have had to buy new mattresses, and spend money on treating wooden furniture. Some books are ruined beyond repair. My written complaint remains unaddressed,” says the journalist. That same month, Sudhir Upadhyay booked the services of a company with the same name, or almost. He was moving from Pune to Uttarakhand and paid about 60% of the cost upfront. The company said his household goods and car would reach Uttarakhand in 3-4 days. “I picked Agarwal Packers and Movers - Bade Bhaiya,” says the founder-CEO of travel company Travstore. Upadhyay says the issue started right from the packing stage. “Halfway through packing, they claimed the products wouldn’t fit the cargo vehicle and a container had to be booked. They raised the price at this stage. Instead of a dedicated container, the goods came in a shared one. Several items were broken or damaged.” In relocation services, the company is responsible for packing, transporting and unpacking the goods at the new location. As with Mohanty, in Upadhyay’s case too, the unpacking team never arrived. He had to hire workers. “I spent over Rs. 10,000 for repairs to my car because it was heavily damaged in transit,” he says. Lockdown woes A search on social media and online discussion portals shows hundreds of such complaints filed against packers and movers during the lockdown. Many of them are against the company that Mohanty booked. The complaints remain unanswered. Upadhyay, like many others, spoke to several personnel in the company and posted complaints online, but there was no response. According to Rajesh Gurumurthy, Senior Director at Jones Lang LaSalle, when companies moved to flexi work models, many people moved to their hometowns, so the services of packers and movers became vital. “People have faced challenges such as high freight costs, delayed delivery, poor handling, interstate transit regulations, theft, low quality packaging, and so on,” he says. Meera S*, a working professional based in Orissa, has been chasing several teams at Desk to Desk Courier & Cargo, popularly known at DTDC, for the last four months. “A laptop was couriered from Kolkata to Orissa in October and I paid the risk surcharge as well. On delivery, I noticed that the body was broken. While they have been responding to complaints, no action has been taken yet and I am running between departments,” she says, adding that she hopes the issue is resolved soon. The pandemic has disrupted businesses and ways of working. People have relocated to be with family, those who lost jobs have returned to their hometowns, many others have had to move to different cities or to lower-rent homes. The demand for relocation services is at its peak. And complaints against them are also rising. The consumercomplaints.in forum has over 700 complaints against Agarwal Packers & Movers Ltd., 96 against Chennai Packers & Movers, among others. Complaints range from damaged goods and delayed delivery to fraud and overcharging. Navneet Agarwal, Director at Agarwal Packers and Movers Ltd., says the primary issue is that several players are impersonating his company. “A Google search, based on location, shows up local listings and unorganised players using our name. We have an ongoing case with Google for the last eight years regarding trademark and verification concerns.” What about genuine complaints of delayed deliveries and damaged goods? Agarwal says the claims process is up on the company website. “When the lockdown hit, our drivers and crew members left the cities and vehicles were stranded on highways and in yards. As we had pre-booked orders, we had to arrange for teams to get the job done. Compensating for damages and repairs are a part of the process and we have continued doing it during the pandemic.” The legal route Clients have the right to sue packers and movers, says V. Kuberan, advocate at Chennai-based Rank Associates. “Even though there is no specific law governing them, the common law remedy will arise under the provisions of the Carriage of Goods Act/ Carriage by Road Act/Sea Act/Air Act,” he says, adding, “The consignment note/ waybill/ lorry receipt/ contract of carriage will contain the terms and conditions, which need to be looked into for individual cases. The liability of the common carrier is limited to ten times the freight paid or payable, provided it does not exceed the value of the declared goods.” In the case of Delhi Assam Roadways Corporation vs. L. Sharma (FA No 107 of 2001), the National Consumer Disputes Redressal commission made two important points: one, that the transporter is liable for negligence, and second, consumer courts can award damages in such cases. Before filing a case, it is mandatory for the consumer to issue a notice as required under Section 10 of the Carriers Act. Experts say you can complain to the insurance ombudsman and the advantage of filing a case here is that the process of resolution is quicker and simpler, but the packer and mover will not be a party here. However, you have to show proof of payment towards insurance. Also, before you file that case, you need to check the policy’s terms. Or else, it is better to file a case in consumer court. Keep in mind Before you book the services of any company, Gurumurthy suggests asking for their licence. “Verify if they have one before signing the contract and handing over your valuables. Secondly, find out if the packers and movers are accredited and look for affiliations like OMNI, FIDI, IAM, Worldwide ERC and BSI.” Reading the terms and conditions and the fine print is important, as is the company’s policy on Replacement Value Protection (RVP). For those who intend to return to their city of work, he suggests they opt for self-storage facilities. “These provide secure personal storage for short periods and the long term too. As most companies have decided to continue work from home till March 2021, this is a viable way to save on home rentals,” says Gurumurthy.  * name changed   Don’t...  pick a company without proper research  rely only on word-of-mouth pay the full amount in advance  allow the packers and movers to load and unload in your absence  pick companies that offer below-market rates  Courtesy: JLL||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/scammed-while-moving-house/article33700563.ece
30 January 2021||January 30 2021 00:00 IST,||It’s time for an architectural revival||Traditional Indian architecture has always been about art and depicting it in various forms. Buildings were created to tell a story, help preserve the local heritage and pass it on to future generations. Created from natural, locally available materials and embellished with regional art and craft, they were a testament to India’s diverse cultural heritage. Even the earliest structures, known kuccha buildings, were adorned with art, mostly to appease spirits and local deities. Later on, when pukka architecture evolved, intricate stone, wood carvings and artistic details were woven into important buildings and monuments. In this way, art and colour continued to remain a prominent part of the country’s traditional architecture. Colours were mostly derived from natural hues of building materials such as red and pink sandstone, white and black marble, coloured slate, to name a few. The diversity in coloured stones were the reason behind local colour variations. Pigments derived from natural sources such as yellow from turmeric, blue from indigo, and white from rice powder were widely used for decorative artwork. In Bihar, colourful Madhubani art was extensively used to decorate the interiors of important rooms and such art forms depicted the social structure and cultural identity of the place. This kind of building ornamentation also offered employment to the local population, promoted a sense of community and encouraged artistic talent. The use of natural materials and locally available resources ensured environmental sensitivity — an intent to work with and live in harmony with nature. Unfortunately, today, architecture and buildings are seen as mere functional entities without any connection to our local community and culture. Technology has led to mass production of building materials and techniques that have sidelined our artisans. Such architecture will not be able to sustain in the long term. To remain sustainable we need to promote our artisans, build local economies, use regional materials and produce buildings that leave a lasting impression. Such architecture would not only inspire and enliven us but also ensure environmental sustainability. The good news is that we are starting to see a semblance of the revival of our local art and artisans. Handcrafted materials like the Athangudi tiles are not only easily available but come in a multitude of design and colour options. We need the revival of similar craft to bring back the life in our built structures.  The author is the founder of Green Evolution, a sustainable architecture firm||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/its-time-for-an-architectural-revival/article33700571.ece
30 January 2021||January 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Of swings and stories||Be it the Scottish novelist and poet Robert Louis Stevenson’s age-old poem asking children “How do you like to go up in the swing, Up in the air so blue” or Indian dancer Pt. Birju Maharaj’s famed performance for “Jhoolat Radhe Naval Kishore” where his movements communicate the ‘soft tension’ of the ropes that hold the sway for Lord Krishna and his companion Radha…the swing has endured generations of thinking in the entire universe. A jhula or swing is almost synonymous with relaxation and pleasant memories and they come in many varieties — cradles, wooden planks, with backrests, decorated tiles or delicate carvings, swings with distressed finishes, and the newer versions of cane and wrought iron for the outdoors. To rightly take the history of the swing across to people, Madhurya Creations in Bengaluru is conducting a 10-day ‘Jhula Fest’ — a rare showcase of nearly three dozen varieties where people can see, buy and take tips from creative interior designers, carpenters and polishers to have the exactitude in place. One can also get custom-made swings crafted. Known for their restorative work in art, craft, furniture and weaving, the boutique’s in-house carpenters either restore the sourced heritage furniture or replicate them in teak and rosewood. Bharathy Harish, coordinator, Madhurya Creations, says, “The jhula has always been an integral part of our childhood memories and is synonymous with relaxation and family time. We thought it would be interesting to start the New Year on an optimistic note celebrating the swing.” Just as the construction sector is seen waking up after the lull for almost a year, furniture and allied interior design products too are getting a boost. Given the fact that we are also witnessing more contemporary built spaces, do swings still continue to have an allure for modern minds? “In cities such as Mumbai, people may not retain them in smaller spaces, but other metros with larger designed interiors have swings in open verandahs, below the skylights, as part of their dining and drawing room or even as an artistic divide,” says architect and interior designer Leena Kumar, National Joint Secretary of the Indian Institute of Architects, adding that many people ask for swings when building a house. However, is it critical to decide on having a swing during the construction stage? “A jhula can be fixed in retrospect too, provided it is anchored into a beam. It is not recommended to be anchored into a slab directly as they may be substantially heavy. It is best if its location is pre-determined and hooks already in place during construction,” adds Kumar.  The Jhula Fest is at Madhurya Store, AOL premises, Kanakapura Main Road and ends on January 31. For more details, log on to madhurya.com   A swing can be an artistic divide in a space that needs to be demarcated||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/of-swings-and-stories/article33700565.ece
30 January 2021||January 30 2021 00:00 IST,||How to collect maintenance||Our gated community, recently constructed by a reputed builder in Chennai, comprises 288 flats built in over 4.31 acres. It has various amenities like a clubhouse, gym, park, kids play area, security etc., that are common to all 288 owners. All units are of not the same size and they vary from 596 sq.ft. to 1,550 sq.ft. Our Resident Welfare Association (RWA) is planning to collect the maintenance fee from all owners. The biggest hurdle the RWA is facing is regarding the method to be used as the flat sizes differ but the amenities are common to all. A few owners have opposed calculating maintenance cost per sq.ft., while others do not want the common method followed. Please help us understand the following points: 1) Does the RWA have the right to choose the method of collecting maintenance? For example, the common method wherein all expenses like support staff salaries, common electricity etc. are divided among all owners based on a voting process a resolution passed based on the majority vote share. 2) As per TN Owners Act 1994, point in Chapter V 19.1, what does the percentage of undivided interest refer to? All owners have 49.5% of UDS based on their flat size. Rizwanulla Syed Chennai The common expenses have to be shared by the flat owners according to the percentage of undivided interest in the common areas and facilities. Since the undivided share of land is proportionate to the built up area for all the flats, it is advisable that the maintenance is collected based on the built up area of each flat. I am purchasing a flat from a woman whose father has (through a settlement deed) settled her UDS and not mentioned the flat in the schedule. Can I make the purchase without any legal complications? A. S. Thirumalai Chennai The settlement deed should have mentioned the flat as well. Otherwise the flat has to be treated as owned by the father and both of them have to join as vendors while executing the sale deed in your favour. The relevant document has to be scrutinised to answer your query comprehensively. It is suggested that you engage a lawyer for title due diligence and documentation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/how-to-collect-maintenance/article33700575.ece
30 January 2021||January 30 2021 00:00 IST,||BuildHQ launches in Chennai||Chennai has a new address for all your building material solutions. Recently launched in Egmore, BuildHQ has everything from switches and tiles to bathroom fittings and furnishing by Indian and international brands. Spread across 55,000 sq.ft., the store is aimed at being a platform for architects, designers and clients to collaborate on projects. BuildHQ also has two event spaces — that will be utilised for product launches — as well as the Design Lounge Café. Specially-equipped AV rooms are also available for presentations with prospective clients and designers. For details, log on to buildhq.design||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/buildhq-launches-in-chennai/article33700573.ece
30 January 2021||January 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Anarock launches VAS suite||Real estate services company Anarock recently announced the launch of its proprietary proptech Value-Added Services  (VAS)  suite. Designed to significantly accelerate housing inventory sales for developers via both online and offline channels, the VAS suite comprises digital marketing services, post-sales CRM Service, a technology CRM platform and research services. Anuj Puri, Chairman, Anarock Property Consultants says, “Q4 2020 presented a culmination of a steep learning curve enforced on the housing sector in the post-pandemic period. Strong developers and tech-driven real estate consultancies were able to implement tools and techniques which proved to be strong differentiators in the midst of hectic competition. With its proprietary VAS Suite, Anarock is equipped to serve the real estate developers from end-to-end as a true strategic partner.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/anarock-launches-vas-suite/article33700560.ece
30 January 2021||January 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Scammed while moving house?||In November last year, Meera Mohanty booked the services of a popular relocation company when she was returning from Orissa to Tamil Nadu. “I hired Agarwal Packers and Movers Ltd. They convinced me to book a separate container, which they said I could lock. But it eventually came with its contents soaking wet. Despite the clear understanding that they would be doing the unpacking — which included reassembling the bed — I ended up doing most of it myself. I have had to buy new mattresses, and spend money on treating wooden furniture. Some books are ruined beyond repair. My written complaint remains unaddressed,” says the journalist. That same month, Sudhir Upadhyay booked the services of a company with the same name, or almost. He was moving from Pune to Uttarakhand and paid about 60% of the cost upfront. The company said his household goods and car would reach Uttarakhand in 3-4 days. “I picked Agarwal Packers and Movers - Bade Bhaiya,” says the founder-CEO of travel company Travstore. Upadhyay says the issue started right from the packing stage. “Halfway through packing, they claimed the products wouldn’t fit the cargo vehicle and a container had to be booked. They raised the price at this stage. Instead of a dedicated container, the goods came in a shared one. Several items were broken or damaged.” In relocation services, the company is responsible for packing, transporting and unpacking the goods at the new location. As with Mohanty, in Upadhyay’s case too, the unpacking team never arrived. He had to hire workers. “I spent over Rs. 10,000 for repairs to my car because it was heavily damaged in transit,” he says. Lockdown woes A search on social media and online discussion portals shows hundreds of such complaints filed against packers and movers during the lockdown. Many of them are against the company that Mohanty booked. The complaints remain unanswered. Upadhyay, like many others, spoke to several personnel in the company and posted complaints online, but there was no response. According to Rajesh Gurumurthy, Senior Director at Jones Lang LaSalle, when companies moved to flexi work models, many people moved to their hometowns, so the services of packers and movers became vital. “People have faced challenges such as high freight costs, delayed delivery, poor handling, interstate transit regulations, theft, low quality packaging, and so on,” he says. Meera S*, a working professional based in Orissa, has been chasing several teams at Desk to Desk Courier & Cargo, popularly known at DTDC, for the last four months. “A laptop was couriered from Kolkata to Orissa in October and I paid the risk surcharge as well. On delivery, I noticed that the body was broken. While they have been responding to complaints, no action has been taken yet and I am running between departments,” she says, adding that she hopes the issue is resolved soon. The pandemic has disrupted businesses and ways of working. People have relocated to be with family, those who lost jobs have returned to their hometowns, many others have had to move to different cities or to lower-rent homes. The demand for relocation services is at its peak. And complaints against them are also rising. The consumercomplaints.in forum has over 700 complaints against Agarwal Packers & Movers Ltd., 96 against Chennai Packers & Movers, among others. Complaints range from damaged goods and delayed delivery to fraud and overcharging. Navneet Agarwal, Director at Agarwal Packers and Movers Ltd., says the primary issue is that several players are impersonating his company. “A Google search, based on location, shows up local listings and unorganised players using our name. We have an ongoing case with Google for the last eight years regarding trademark and verification concerns.” What about genuine complaints of delayed deliveries and damaged goods? Agarwal says the claims process is up on the company website. “When the lockdown hit, our drivers and crew members left the cities and vehicles were stranded on highways and in yards. As we had pre-booked orders, we had to arrange for teams to get the job done. Compensating for damages and repairs are a part of the process and we have continued doing it during the pandemic.” The legal route Clients have the right to sue packers and movers, says V. Kuberan, advocate at Chennai-based Rank Associates. “Even though there is no specific law governing them, the common law remedy will arise under the provisions of the Carriage of Goods Act/ Carriage by Road Act/Sea Act/Air Act,” he says, adding, “The consignment note/ waybill/ lorry receipt/ contract of carriage will contain the terms and conditions, which need to be looked into for individual cases. The liability of the common carrier is limited to ten times the freight paid or payable, provided it does not exceed the value of the declared goods.” In the case of Delhi Assam Roadways Corporation vs. L. Sharma (FA No 107 of 2001), the National Consumer Disputes Redressal commission made two important points: one, that the transporter is liable for negligence, and second, consumer courts can award damages in such cases. Before filing a case, it is mandatory for the consumer to issue a notice as required under Section 10 of the Carriers Act. Experts say you can complain to the insurance ombudsman and the advantage of filing a case here is that the process of resolution is quicker and simpler, but the packer and mover will not be a party here. However, you have to show proof of payment towards insurance. Also, before you file that case, you need to check the policy’s terms. Or else, it is better to file a case in consumer court. Keep in mind Before you book the services of any company, Gurumurthy suggests asking for their licence. “Verify if they have one before signing the contract and handing over your valuables. Secondly, find out if the packers and movers are accredited and look for affiliations like OMNI, FIDI, IAM, Worldwide ERC and BSI.” Reading the terms and conditions and the fine print is important, as is the company’s policy on Replacement Value Protection (RVP). For those who intend to return to their city of work, he suggests they opt for self-storage facilities. “These provide secure personal storage for short periods and the long term too. As most companies have decided to continue work from home till March 2021, this is a viable way to save on home rentals,” says Gurumurthy.  * name changed   Don’t...  pick a company without proper research  rely only on word-of-mouth pay the full amount in advance  allow the packers and movers to load and unload in your absence  pick companies that offer below-market rates  Courtesy: JLL||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/scammed-while-moving-house/article33700567.ece
30 January 2021||January 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Quotes to live by for 2021||I’ve been receiving feedback from my readers — by which I mean my mother-in-law and my istriwallah , Marimuthu — that my columns are becoming too cynical for my own good. And perhaps I need to find aguru/life coach who will correct my faulty thinking and make me see the good around me. I can’t thank both of them enough for pointing me in the direction of His Divine Wiseness Dr Funky Astral Kumar. Because I am a changed man. I see the light. And I want to start 2021 on a positive note by sharing some of my teacher’s best quotes and atone for the sins of my previous columns.  Pleasure and Pain  Whatever brings you great pleasure can also bring you great pain. Like flaky Malabar parotta . Or slim-fit pants. Or eating the former while wearing the latter.  Others  Nothing in the world can bring you down as much as your own mind. You think others are bringing you down, but there are no others, it is your own mind. Sometimes, of course, it could be that fellow Nehru.  Limits  If you think you are big, you become small. If you accept you are nothing, you become everything. If you think you are Medium, you are most likely XXL.  Indecision  In theGita, Lord Krishna says the worst crime in the world is indecision. Indigestion is a close second, says Kumbhakarna, though not in theGita.  Listening  Listen to others; yet do not listen. If your mind gets stuck in their problems, not only are they miserable but you become miserable, too. Unless you are in a bar. And they are paying. Then you order an 18-year-old single malt and say, ‘Tell me more.’  Joy and Truth  Deep inside your gut are truth, light, love and joy. That is why you need to do an endoscopy from time to time.  Past and Present  Don’t waste today over what happened yesterday. Wait till tomorrow and think of day-before-yesterday. Or the other way round if you have a time machine.  Success  The only time you fail is when you fall down and stay down. True success is getting up and running away from the problem.  Privilege  When you arise in the morning think of what a privilege it is to be alive, to think, to enjoy, to love and to have someone to blame.  Being Human  We are not human beings having a spiritual experience. We are not spiritual beings having a human inexperience. We are Neanderthals who have lost our fur.  Meaning  Life is far beyond meaning. Life is beyond meaning and that’s why it is so beautiful. That’s why we don’t know what covfefe means.  Awakening  Awakening is not changing who you are, but discarding who you are not. But for that, the isabgol has to work.  Retreat  Within you there is a stillness and a sanctuary to which you can retreat at any time and be yourself. But if you want to see Disha Patani, you have to go to Maldives.  Laughter  Fools laugh at others. Wisdom laughs at itself. Archana Puran Singh laughs at everything.  The Unknown  A single event can awaken within us a stranger totally unknown to us. That is why you never mix gin with whisky.  Universe  Relax into the moment and let the universe do the driving. But make sure your insurance is up to date.  Relaxation  If you are in the obituary page, it means you can relax. Krishna Shastri Devulapalli is a satirist. He has written four books and edited an anthology.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/quotes-to-live-by-for-2021/article33700870.ece
30 January 2021||January 30 2021 00:00 IST,||In the spirit of recycling||A few weeks ago, Diageo — the name behind leading alcohol brands such as Johnnie Walker, Guinness and Smirnoff — released an ad featuring an anxious couple floating in a pod in outer space. Released as part of Johnnie Walker’s ‘Keep Walking’ series, it ends with several such pods descending on to a planet sans humans while a voiceover says, ‘Coming back means reliving everything again like it is the first time’. The ad that ends with ‘the next 200 years are just beginning’ is both symbolic of the year in lockdown and a hint at their upcoming plans to go green. In a recent interview with Campaign India, Nitesh Chhapru, VP at Diageo India, said that by 2021 ‘we will be launching our first 100% plastic-free, paper-based packaging, a first for the premium spirits category’. And now, with the second leg of #WalkInWithJohnnie campaign, the brand is bringing to the fore the rather lesser-known concept of glass recycling in India by including their consumers. So the next time you empty your bottle of scotch, you needn’t forcefully turn it into yet another planter or feel guilty about binning it. Instead, drop it off at designated bars in exchange for a Striding Man souvenir — something that many, including the likes of actors Jim Sarbh, Kriti Kharbanda, Malaika Arora Khan promoted back in November. The bottles collected so far are being turned into glass installations (of the Striding Man) by artists such as Tyrell Valladares of MetalHead, Mumbai, Romicon Revola and others. Valladares’ 6.5 foot creation — made using 500+ bottles and weighing 150 kg — unveiled at Estella in Mumbai last week, is the first of many permanent installations that will be displayed at select bars in Mumbai, Gurgaon, Hyderabad, Bengaluru and Kolkata. Abhishek Shahabadi, Vice President and Portfolio Head, Premium & Luxury Brands, Diageo India, says, “Over the course of the campaign, we’ve seen 5,000+ walk-ins with empty bottles across 52 bars in 14 cities. The names of all the patrons who have contributed their empty bottles are etched on each of these installations as a celebration of them taking a stance to keep walking.”  The Sepoy collab  In a similar vein, Angad Soni of Sepoy & Co — known for their tonic water and mixers — is all set to launch their Rethink Repurpose campaign on February 1. In collaboration with Udit Singhal’s Glass2Sand initiative, it will first take off in the capital and NCR region. “Over the past two years, we got a number of customer queries on how they could reuse bottles or if there was any return policy. These questions led us to look for a solution,” says Soni, 37, who was introduced to 19-year-old Singhal in August last year. Singhal says Sepoy customers can contact them once they have 50 bottles , and this is not limited to just Sepoy’s containers. “These will be either collected by us or can be dropped off at our location for disposal. The bottles are then crushed into high-grade silica sand in under five seconds that can used in construction, as furnace lining, for roads, etc.” In the two years since the launch, close to 14,000 glass bottles have been recycled at Glass2Sand. “We pay Rs. 2 per kilo to those who deliver the bottles to our facility,” adds Singhal, who sourced his machine from New Zealand.  Return, don’t dump  He also addresses the rather unorganised recycling system in India. “Here, only large beverage companies like Coca-Cola and Pepsi have a system of reuse. As these empties are handpicked for quality, a majority is dumped back in the landfills,” explains Singhal, who was selected as one of 17 Young Leaders for Sustainable Development Goals 2020 by the UN. Currently operational only in New Delhi, he says Mumbai, Bengaluru, Kolkata and Chennai are on his radar. Meanwhile, Sepoy & Co’s Soni is hopeful that their campaign over the next few months will give them a better perspective on public response. “We’ve already received requests via social media to launch the initiative in Mumbai and Bengaluru,” he concludes.  To drop off bottles for Sepoy & Co’s campaign, call 9810008289 or visit glass2sand.in    I had a vision to create an illuminated art piece and to bring it to life was definitely a challenge. Not only was breaking the glass time consuming but it was also difficult to get the right size of each piece. It was important to keep the look and feel in line with the creative concept along with controlling the weight of the installation. From conceptualizing, research and completion of the entire artwork, it took me approximately 18-20 days to bring alive the life-size Striding Man.   - Tyrell Valladares, Sculptor and proprietor, MetalHead, Mumbai||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/in-the-spirit-of-recycling/article33700886.ece
30 January 2021||January 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Pashmina meets metallic polymers||Last Diwali, Amit Aggarwal was gifted a beautiful pashmina shawl by his friend Sugandha Kedia. The fashion designer, who is an avid collector of shawls, “absolutely fell in love with it”. A thank you call soon turned into a conversation about Kedia’s one-year-old brand Dusala Kashmir — which supports over 50 pashmina weavers — and ended with the idea for a collaboration. “It wasn’t planned, but the mutual love for textiles brought us together,” says Aggarwal from New Delhi. The objective was to enhance the traditional pashmina weave and patterns with his signature metallic polymer yarn. Once the mood board and colour story were set, the design — a mix of earth and jewel tones featuring tile patterns and architecture from Kashmir — was finalised. Each shawl took about 20 days to make from start to finish, and once the weavers were done, his atelier added the surface embellishments. The final Amit Aggarwal x Dusala collection includes shawls, saris and stoles, “the best garments to showcase pashmina”. Woollen saris and romance Surprisingly, Kedia did not have to spend too much time convincing the weavers to push their boundaries. “When we explained what Amit wanted to do in terms of design, they were hooked,” says the 33-year-old fashion entrepreneur, who switched careers from TV journalism to start the multi-designer store, One, in Raipur in 2017. The saris in the collection are versatile, featuring an elongated pallu made of pashmina that can be wrapped around the body for warmth. “The rest of it is fabric like silk or organza. The saris can also be draped with the pashmina as the bottom pleats,” Aggarwal explains. Making this collab even more personal for Aggarwal is the fact that his long-time partner Ankit Chawla shot the campaign pictures. “Winters are when I feel the most romantic,” laughs the designer, adding, “So when I had the chance to work with him on this towards the end of last year, I wanted to tell our story.” It isn’t your typical fashion photography (Chawla specialises in portraits), and the locations across Delhi, where the images were shot, are integral to their love story. Meanwhile, Aggarwal, who believes that his futuristic gowns have evolved over the past year — “our festive line has a lot more inferences from Indian art” — he states they will retain the signature brand look. He is also working on a home décor and accessory line but can’t divulge any details. “It is in a very nascent stage, but I feel that the kind of detailing and structuring we do will lend itself very well to these,” he concludes. Stoles from Rs. 45,000, saris and bridal shawls from Rs. 1.69 lakh and Rs. 1.55 lakh respectively, on dusala.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/pashmina-meets-metallic-polymers/article33700869.ece
30 January 2021||Ghaziabad,||BKU’s show of strength in U.P.’s Muzaffarnagar||A sea of farmers from western Uttar Pradesh filled the GIC Grounds in Muzaffarnagar as a ‘mahapanchayat’ called by the Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) began on Friday. All the roads leading to the ground were choked by tractors from Shamli, Baghpat and Saharanpur and other neighbouring districts, putting the traffic diversions in disarray. The ‘mahapanchayat’ has been called by BKU president Naresh Tikait in the wake of dramatic incidents that unfolded at the Ghazipur protest site on Thursday night, where his younger brother and national spokesperson of the BKU Rakesh Tikait broke into an emotional outburst. The Tikaits hail from the Sisauli village of Muzaffarnagar and lead the Balyan khap spread over 80 odd villages. Talking to reporters, Mr. Naresh said the ‘mahapanchayat’ had been called because the dignity of farmers could not be compromised. Disassociating the BKU from the incidents at Red Fort on Republic Day, he said that they could break barricades, do stunts with tractors but could not fiddle with the national symbols. He was not against any government, but was against policies of the government. He said they could not challenge the Prime Minister but would advise him to pick minds of people working at the grass roots. The protest at the Ghazipur border would continue. “It is a decision taken by the Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee and we abide by it,” Mr. Naresh said. In the morning, proclamations were made in villages asking farmers to join the ‘mahapanchayat’. Local ‘khaps’ also issued appeals to join the protest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bkus-show-of-strength-in-ups-muzaffarnagar/article33700895.ece
30 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Clash breaks out between group of ‘locals’ and farmers at Singhu||A clash broke out between a group of people, who claimed to be locals, and the protesting farmers at the Singhu border on Friday. Earlier in the day, the group had carried out demonstrations near the barricades, which are placed a couple of km away from the main protest site, demanding the inter-State highway be cleared. Next, the despite the heavy presence of security, the group charged towards the main protest site and displaced tents. This was followed by heavy stone pelting following which the farmers also retaliated. The Delhi Police fired tear gas and resorted to lathicharge to bring the situation under control. Since morning, all entry points and roads leading to the main protest site at the Singhu border had been sealed by the Delhi Police with boulders and barricades in place. Soon after violence erupted near the entrance of the protest site, which is a short distance away from the main stage, the protesting farmers stationed along the highway, gathered on the other side of the barricades. ‘Maintain calm’ However, several volunteers were later seen asking the farmers to retreat and announcements were also made from the stage, asking them to maintain calm. A few minutes after the police fired the tear gas and lathicharged farmers, the group of locals, who had been pushed back slightly, again resorted to stone pelting for a brief period. A confrontation-like situation had arisen on Thursday as well after the group assembled at the Singhu border. They had argued that the farmers had allegedly disrespected the Tricolour at Red Fort on January 26. They also threatened to return to the site “in larger numbers.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/clash-breaks-out-between-group-of-locals-and-farmers-at-singhu/article33700905.ece
30 January 2021||January 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Gosh, let them play||When the lockdown began last year, one of the things Gayatri and Karthik Srinivasan’s four-year-old daughter, Akira, missed most was the sand pit at her Montessori school. With a new baby on the way and the family spending all their time at home, Karthik (who, along with Gayatri, runs Oddity, a design practice in Bengaluru) began building custom furniture products for Akira. Now, they’re sharing these pieces with others through their new brand, Gosh. This includes The Cocoon, a circular table with slots and alcoves where a child can sit on the floor and have enough room to spread out books and stationery. Then there is the Big Little Artist Table or BLAT!, that comes with a seemingly never-ending roll of paper and slots to hold paintbrushes and containers of water. And, of course, the Beach-in-a-Box, a portable sand pit. “The seeds for Gosh were sown before the pandemic, as we were constantly on the lookout for furniture for Akira,” says Gayatri. “The overwhelming response to these products when I shared them on Instagram made us realise that there was a huge gap in the market for imaginative children’s furniture.” Waste to wonder Initially, Karthik built the products at home using waste wood from previous projects. With more demand, they have moved operations to their factory, aided by a team. They eschew tones like teak, opting instead for light-coloured wood such as rubber and pine. “Everyone is sick of dark furniture with everything looking like it is from the library,” laughs Karthik, as Gayatri adds that you do not want dark and heavy furniture for a child’s room. Minor customisations are accommodated for each piece, as every child has different needs. “One of the insights we have had is that people are hesitant about buying children’s furniture because they outgrow it. We wanted to see if we could make small modifications so that they can be used for longer. In the interests of sustainability, we’re also planning to buy back furniture, which can then be upcycled or reused,” she says, concluding that their future plans include making inclusive furniture for children with developmental difficulties as well as pet furniture. From Rs. 3,000 to Rs. 30,000 on gosh.world. Each order takes three weeks to complete; currently shipping only in Bengaluru||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/gosh-let-them-play/article33700868.ece
30 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Prepared to face intimidation from all quarters, say farmers||Following clashes with groups of people, who claimed to be locals, and despite a heavy deployment of security forces at the protest site, the farmers present at the Singhu border have refused to budge. They said they are prepared to face intimidation from all quarters. Referring to the stand-off between farmers and the police at the Ghazipur border on Thursday night, several protesters maintained that they were not ready to “abandon” the protest at this point. Ranjeet Singh, a farmer from Punjab’s Jalandhar district, said: “The stand-off, in a way, has worked in favour of the agitation. Similarly, several more trolleys are on their way from Mohali to the border. Now on, whenever there is a call, people will assemble in large numbers at the borders.” Stating that the farmers were ready to go down resisting the forces, Rajbeer Singh, a farmer from Punjab’s Fatehgarh Sahib district, said: “Death will be staring at us even at home if the laws are implemented. Our intention is not to hurt anyone. All we want is for the three laws to be repealed. If the government is bent on killing us, then we are ready for that as well.” “The movement is not just about farmers. Every citizen should be concerned as everyone will be affected. We are not the ones threatening people and we are also not scared of any adverse outcome. The government thinks they can scare us by stopping langars and resorting to other means. But we are not scared. What will we teach our children if we return now?,” asked Mr. Singh. Gurmukh Singh, another farmer from Fatehgarh Sahib, said: “The increased presence of forces has changed nothing. They want the stage near the entrance removed. But the people sitting here are unaffected by their presence. We are not going to move till the laws are repealed.” Another farmer, Gurparashad Singh, added, “Are we supposed to be scared? Our determination is the same and we want the three laws repealed.”  The government thinks they can scare us by stopping langars and resorting to other means. But we are not scared Rajbeer Singh Farmer from Punjab||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/prepared-to-face-intimidation-from-all-quarters-say-farmers/article33700907.ece
30 January 2021||Ghaziabad,||Farmer leader’s speech inspires many to keep wheels rolling||Hundreds of farmers from western Uttar Pradesh, most of them carrying cans of water and buttermilk, reached the Ghazipur protest site on Friday. It was a response to the emotional outburst of a teary-eyed BKU leader Rakesh Tikait, who blamed the BJP for trying to vitiate the atmosphere at the site by sending its MLAs and their acolytes to the protest site. “We are ready to be caned by the administration but we are not ready to submit to the BJP people,” said Mr. Tikait. He claimed that he would drink water only from his village. It created ripples across western U.P., particularly Muzaffarnagar, which is Tikait’s hometown. His elder brother and president of BKU Naresh Tikait, who had earlier in the day agreed to end the protest, quickly called an emergency meeting and appealed to supporters to reach Ghazipur in large numbers. Rashtriya Lok Dal President Ajeet Singh called him and promised support. Meanwhile, administration sources denied the role of BJP leaders. “Mr. Tikait had agreed to court arrest on Wednesday evening but when the ADM [city] went to the stage with police personnel to serve the eviction notice, he changed track and came up with the ‘attack by the BJP’ angle,” said a senior official, requesting anonymity. Mr. Tikait’s decision to stay put, despite a massive presence of police and paramilitary forces in riot gear, changed the course of events with the administration taking a step back. Perhaps, officials on the ground failed to realise the social standing that the Tikait family wields in the region. Till Wednesday, most of the farmers on the Delhi-Meerut expressway were Sikh farmers from Uttarakhand and the Terai region of U.P. Scores of farmers from western U.P. were holding fort beneath the flyover. With farmer leader V.M. Singh leaving on Wednesday with his supporters, the numbers came down. On Thursday, with electricity and water supply snapping and the possibility of a police crackdown, many tents and langars began to fold up. Sources in BKU said the administration was clearly told that a possible clash between Sikh farmers and U.P. Police could spiral into “something big”. They added that the inputs from the Muzaffarnagar administration that Rakesh Tikait’s arrest would lead to a backlash in the district possibly forced the Ghaziabad administration to postpone the action. Back on track Rajvir Singh, Vice President (BKU) said there was a confusion that Mr. Tikait would surrender. “This led to many farmers leaving the protest site. Later, he described Sikhs as a courageous community and gave a clear assurance that we are with them. The remaining people decided to stay put. Thursday’s events helped us get over the mistakes of Republic Day and the protest is back on track,” he said. “Most importantly,” he added, “the emotional appeal of our leader finally found resonance in western U.P. in a big way. Farmers from the villages of Ghaziabad and neighbouring districts reached the spot in the night itself.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/farmer-leaders-speech-inspires-many-to-keep-wheels-rolling/article33700898.ece
30 January 2021||Agartala,||Woman killed by elephants in Tripura||A few hundred tribal residents blocked the Assam-Agartala National Highway at Chakmaghat, some 45 km east of here, on Friday, seeking monetary compensation for the family of a 50-year-old woman who was killed after a herd of elephants attacked a passenger vehicle on Thursday. The protesters also demanded a government job for the kin of the deceased. The elephants pushed the vehicle into a gorge. While others managed to escape, the woman got stuck in it and died.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/woman-killed-by-elephants-in-tripura/article33700896.ece
30 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||DMRC opens pedestrian subway in Pitampura||A pedestrian subway connecting Netaji Subhash Place metro station and Netaji Subhash Place shopping complex in Pitampura was made operational on Friday, the Delhi Metro said. “The shopping complex at Netaji Subhash Place [Pitampura] is located right opposite to the metro station, which is a vital interchange facility for the Red and Pink Lines. The shopping complex consists of many shopping outlets, a Max Hospital branch and a number of small vendors and attracts a lot of visitors every day. This subway will provide much needed connectivity between the shopping complex commuters and the metro station,” the DMRC said in a release.  Box pushing technology The 76-metre-long subway crosses the Lala Jagat Narayan Marg and the adjacent Wazirpur flyover. The subway has been constructed using the box pushing technology, with which vertical excavation or large scale digging is not required.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/dmrc-opens-pedestrian-subway-in-pitampura/article33700900.ece
30 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||43 arrested for involvement in violence at Singhu border||The police have arrested 43 people for their alleged involvement in the violence that broke out between a group of people, who claimed to be locals, and protesters at the Singhu border on Friday. An officer said a man from Punjab, Ranjeet Singh, attacked Alipur SHO Pradeep Paliwal. Singh has been arrested under IPC sections of attempt to murder and other serious charges. Mr. Paliwal was controlling the situation when the protesters and the locals started pelting stones at each other. A man with sword came out from the protest site and attacked policemen. In a bid to control him, the man attacked Mr. Paliwal, who has received 15 stitches, an officer said. He is undergoing treatment. Armed with sticks, the group reached the site and asked the farmers to vacate the border. The police fired tear gas and resorted to a baton charge at that time. “We will identify all the culprits and book them,” the officer added.  A man with sword suddenly attacked policemen. In a bid to control him, the man attacked Mr. Paliwal, who has received 15 stitches. Police officer||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/43-arrested-for-involvement-in-violence-at-singhu-border/article33700901.ece
30 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||9 farmer leaders called to join probe on violence a no-show||None of the nine farmer leaders, who were told to join investigation in connection with the violation of the terms and conditions for the tractor parade that led to violence here on Republic Day, turned up, alleged Delhi Police on Friday. The Delhi Police special investigation team (SIT) had called farmers’ leaders — Rakesh Tikait, Pawan Kumar, Raj Kishore Singh, Tajender Singh Virk, Jitender Singh, Trilochan Singh, Gurmukh Singh, Harpreet Singh and Jagtar Singh Bajwa — to join the investigation. The notices about the probe were sent to the leaders via WhatsApp and were also pasted outside the tents in which they were staying, said an officer. “We kept waiting for them but they did not come,” said an officer. The police have so far registered 33 FIRs in connection with the violence on Republic Day that left 394 personnel injured and one protester dead on January 26. Also, lookout notices were issued against 44 people, including the farmers’ leaders. On Friday, a team of FSL had gone to Ghazipur border to collect evidence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/9-farmer-leaders-called-to-join-probe-on-violence-a-no-show/article33700902.ece
30 January 2021||January 30 2021 00:00 IST,||After the day’s work||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/after-the-days-work/article33701243.ece
30 January 2021||New Delhi,||Nine people nabbed for assaulting ASI in Burari||Nine people have been arrested in connection with the attack on policemen during the Burari incident, said officers on Friday. A case was registered under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code at Mukherjee Nagar police station against the accused who were staging dharna at DDA ground, Burari for the past two months against the three farmers’ bills. On Thursday at 7.30 p.m., some protesters assaulted an assistant sub-inspector, Harbans Lal, who was deployed at the main entry gate, DDA ground, Burari. The incident happened when Lal objected the protesters from going to Red Fort, an officer said. The protesters tore his uniform and injured him. The accused were protesting for the past two months under the leadership of Jaskaran Singh Kahan Singh Wala, Shiromani Akali Dal (Kishan wing, Amritsar), the officer said. They are in judicial custody, the officer added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/nine-people-nabbed-for-assaulting-asi-in-burari/article33700903.ece
30 January 2021||January 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Women in music: Life on the indie stage||In the autumn of 2016, Shilpa Natarajan flouted the unwritten rule that “women artistes are expected to wear dresses and heels”, and showed up on stage in pyjamas and a T-shirt. “This pressure to dress up and look a particular way is not on male artistes,” says the Chennai-based vocalist and composer, who had opened the Mainstage Festival in Chennai with her parody band, Beef Sapad Trio (BST). When organisers asked her if she would change, she simply stated it was her costume as Barbie Q, her alias when she performs with BST. In the year gone by, when everything had turned digital, this divide was even more stark. Female artistes were particularly disadvantaged because of trolling. American singer Monica Dogra had posted on feeling insecure about her career (because of social media trolls), while Mumbai-based singer Aditi Ramesh spoke about fielding unpleasant emojis and comments while on a live gig for Vh1. “As a female musician, I’ve heard the words, ‘You’re a girl; people listen to your music because of your looks. Men are the ones really struggling’, more than once. To a teenager finding her way, it is not difficult to let these ideas under your skin and wonder if you’re worth anything,” says upcoming Bengaluru-based vocalist, Frizzell D’Souza. In 2021, more and more female musicians are subverting the politics and economics of the Indian independent scene by reclaiming their agency. Like Mumbai-based hip-hop artiste Ashwini Hiremath, who goes by the stage name Krantinaari, and rapper Pratika Prabhune, of the hip-hop collective Won Tribe. They are working on the release of a rap song titled ‘ Raja Beta ’, which is “inspired by many incidents that took place last year when patriarchy overtook social justice and even law enforcement”. Elsewhere, Sonia Acharya, director of Women of Rhythm, India’s largest organisation of female drummers, has a fixed fee for her upcoming artistes, which is at par with what male artistes are being paid.  Raising questions  Indie music in India gained momentum only as recently as a decade ago, with a steady increase in the number of music festivals. And it is still far from being woke. As a woman music journalist, and former editor of Rolling Stone magazine’s India edition, I was accustomed to the scene being a boys’ club. From gig photographers and artiste managers to event managers and technicians to journalists and artistes, men outnumbered women. Back then it didn’t cross my mind to question the status quo or bring up topics like body shaming or pay parity. It was in 2012 that I first learnt of a sexual harassment case in the music industry, only to find that few men would step up and support the victim. She was advised against going to court and warned that things would get messy if she filed a case. “The organisation where I was employed stopped working with the man [an event and artiste manager], but they didn’t want to get involved if I filed a case,” says the victim, who wishes to remain anonymous. It wasn’t until the #MeToo movement in 2018 that women musicians, and journalists like me, began talking about these happenings.   B ody positive   No woman artiste, be it a global music sensation or a local indie vocalist, is spared the indignity of being questioned about how she looks or what she wears. Grammy-nominated sitarist , Anoushka Shankar, recently lashed out at a troll who commented on a photo that she had posted on her social media page. “If you visit the social profiles of female artistes, you will see how audiences are driven towards their physical appeal more than anything else, an inherent trait of a patriarchal society. The viewership on videos and photos will be skyrocketing, while their musical content is often ignored,” says rapper Prabhune. “Sometimes the content isn’t even up to the mark. I think that comes from our habit of ‘social ranking’, ‘influencing’, and straight up objectification of women [something that is absent among Hindustani and Carnatic musicians, where prowess is valued]. Seldom are women appreciated solely for their music or art.”  Calling out oppression  However, women are now leading the change both on stage and off it. “It is only when women write or post something that challenges the norms that they are trolled. But this, in turn, exposes double standards and triggers conversations around sexism, which will bring about change,” says Acharya. Lawyer Priyanka Khimani, chairperson of Women in Music’s (WIM) India chapter (started in 2019), is one such ‘warrior’. Though the pandemic has delayed her plans, she says this year “my focus will be on addressing practical work-life issues. For starters: creating a membership-based access to legal support so that all artistes can have access to advice and assistance while negotiating deals”. Globally, WIM has set up mentorship programmes for women, created campaigns to represent women artistes at music conferences, and launched a video series to support victims of sexual harassment. Companies with women in leadership positions are also building a stronger support system for their peers. Digital music network TuneCore’s country head in India, Heena Kriplani, has an equal opportunity workspace ever since she joined the company in January 2020. “I use my station to showcase women at every opportunity. I’m a firm believer in a 50% representation model. When people say ‘Let the best man win,’ what they don’t get is the years of unequal opportunity it has taken to make that man the best,” says Kriplani. “Equilibrium more than equality is important. It will take a lot of muscle to even out the playing field and it is on all of us to do it,” adds Mumbai-based Kriplani, who has been part of the music industry for two decades.  The writer is an independent journalist and a faculty of journalism at FLAME University.   “I feel that there has been some progress [in tackling sexual harassment], but it is not enough. Having said that, my former manager worked at OML [after 2018]. From taking care of daily stressful situations to providing counselling, I really appreciated how the organisation tried to make her and the other women who worked there feel comfortable”  Ankur Tewari , singer, songwriter and composer   “There is a huge gender gap in the indie music scene and it is not because of lack of talent. It is a lack of exposure and the attitude of men. Creating more opportunities hasn’t been top of mind for many of us and it should be”  Jishnu Dasgupta , bassist of Bengaluru folk rock band, Swarathma||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/women-in-music-life-on-the-indie-stage/article33700885.ece
