31 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Proposal to stay farm laws stands: Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday said at an all-party meeting of floor leaders in Parliament that the government’s proposal of suspending the implementation of three farm laws, against which farmers’ unions have been protesting for months, still stood, and that any resolution of the issue “should be found through dialogue”. “We all have to think about the nation,” the Prime Minister added. The remarks came after a number of Opposition leaders, including Ghulam Nabi Azad of the Congress, Trinamool Congress’s Sudeip Bandopadhyaya, Shiv Sena’s Vinayak Raut and Shiromani Akali Dal’s Balwinder Singh Bhunder, spoke about the long agitation by farmers’ unions on Delhi’s borders. Significantly, Janata Dal (U) leader R.C.P. Singh supported the government position on the laws. “I want to reiterate what [Agriculture Minister] Narendra Singh Tomar told farmers. Mr. Tomar had said we’ve not reached a consensus but are giving farmers an offer and they may go and deliberate. He told farmers that he was just a phone call away,” Mr. Modi is reported to have told the Opposition leaders during the meeting. On the violence during the tractor rally by farmers’ groups on Republic Day and the siege of the Red Fort, Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi quoted Mr. Modi as stating that the “law must take its own course” with regard to the incident. He also condemned in strong words the desecration of a statue of Mahatma Gandhi in America, saying that all must reflect on what was being spread about in the country. Political leaders, however, have insisted on a separate discussion on farmers issues, especially the three laws.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/proposal-to-stay-farm-laws-stands-modi/article33707178.ece
31 January 2021||New Delhi,||U.P. ordinance on conversion not yet received by MHA||The ordinance on unlawful religious conversions, promulgated by the Uttar Pradesh government last year, has not been sent to the Centre for examination, according to a reply from the Union Home Ministry to a query under the Right to Information Act (RTI). The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) examines bills passed by States that are repugnant to Central laws before they get the President’s assent to become a law. Article 213 of the Constitution, under which U.P. Governor Anandiben Patel promulgated the ordinance, says the Governor shall not, without instructions from the President, promulgate any such Ordinance if a Bill would have “required the previous sanction of the President” for introduction in the State Legislature. A similar legislation passed by the Rajasthan Assembly in 2008 under the then BJP government is still pending with the MHA. It is yet to receive the President’s nod as the MHA found that it deviated from national policy. MHA sends State bills for inter-ministerial consultation before they get the President’s nod, only in the following circumstances — when it has repugnancy with central laws, deviates from national or central policy and when it can be challenged for legal validity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/up-ordinance-on-conversion-not-yet-received-by-mha/article33707173.ece
31 January 2021||KADAPA,||Elections should be bereft of intimidation, says SEC||Enforcing unanimous elections in panchayats is nothing but an attempt to stifle the voice of the Backward Classes and the spirit of social justice, Andhra Pradesh State Election Commissioner N. Ramesh Kumar has said. Addressing the media after paying tributes to Mahatma Gandhi on his death anniversary here on Saturday, Mr. Ramesh Kumar said the percentage of unanimous elections had come down to 20 in 2013 from 30 earlier. “In the ensuing elections, the figure should come down further, signalling the victory of democracy,” he said. The powers that be had, in their “last attempt,” tried to stop the election process by filing over 10 writ petitions in the High Court, he said. It was a “happy moment” for him as the court stood by the Constitution and the State Election Commission by ruling that “no power can stop the elections”. ‘Constitution supreme’ Stating that he was the “prime witness” in several CBI cases, Mr. Ramesh Kumar said, “I enjoy protection under the Witness Protection Act. It is my nature to be bold, true and discharge my duties in accordance with the Constitution. I shall continue to do this. “Elections should be guided by the spirit of truth, which has its roots in the Constitution that envisages the vision of B.R. Ambedkar. The ruling of the Supreme Court becomes the law of the land. It is the bounden duty of all to follow the Constitution and the systems guided by it and the law of the land. When the apex court said the Election Commission was correct, the attempts to discourage and demoralise the election process are unconstitutional and ridiculous,” Mr. Ramesh Kumar said. “When ‘unanimous election’ is a far cry in the Assembly and Lok Sabha elections, why should it be enforced in the panchayat elections?” he asked. Free and fair elections, away from intimidation, would give ample scope to the downtrodden sections, make them a part of the governance, he observed. “The forces that pitch for unanimous election will be grounded. Shadow parties will be after those who go hunting for candidates filing their nominations,” Mr. Ramesh Kumar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/unanimous-polls-not-democratic-sec/article33707108.ece
31 January 2021||BHOPAL,||Indore civic staff caught trying to dump elders on highway||A team of workers of the Indore Municipal Corporation (IMC) was on Friday caught on video trying to dump homeless elders by the side of a highway. The video, reportedly shot by a few locals and widely shared online, shows two IMC workers trying to move a man and a frail, elderly woman wrapped in filthy rags into a Corporation vehicle after opposition from villagers in Kshipra on the outskirts of Indore city. The locals protested the IMC workers’ move to dump the elderly people on the highway during the chilly winter when the mercury touched 7.2 degrees Celsius the previous [Thursday] night. The BJP government in the State condemned the behaviour of the IMC employees. “Today, I got information about inhuman treatment of old people by Municipal Corporation employees in Indore... Two employees, including the Deputy Commissioner, responsible have been suspended. The District Collector has been instructed to take proper care of the elderly,” Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan tweeted. “Inhuman treatment towards the elderly will not be tolerated at any cost. Every aged person should get respect and love. This is our culture and also human religion,” he added. Acting swiftly, Madhya Pradesh Urban Administration Minister Bhupendra Singh dismissed the two employees. However, according to reports, the IMC defended its employees, maintaining that they were actually helping the people. IMC Additional Commissioner Abhay Rajangaonkar claimed that the municipal employees were moving the homeless people to a night shelter. He denied allegations that they had been dropped off on the outskirts of the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/indore-civic-staff-caught-trying-to-dump-elders-on-highway/article33707180.ece
31 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Ready to resume talks: farmers||Farm unions say they are open to resuming talks on the three farm laws but accuse the government of offering dialogue on the one hand while harassing farmers on the other by cutting off mobile Internet, threatening eviction and ignoring violence from locals. With new groups of farmers from Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Punjab streaming into the border protest sites again, several union leaders say they expect to be able to negotiate from a position of renewed strength. The Union Home Ministry on Saturday ordered the suspension of Internet for two days at Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur, the three main protest sites on Delhi’s borders, where thousands of farmers have been camped for over two months. The U.P. police and local administration have attempted to evict protestors from the Ghazipur site, while local residents, backed by BJP leaders, clashed with protesting farmers in Singhu on Friday. “It is the government which has attempted to derail the debate by inciting violence and communalising the issue,” said Kavitha Kuruganti of the Mahila Kisan Adhikaar Manch. “The government says it wants a dialogue, but it is trying to weaken the farmers in so many ways, cutting off our communications, our water and power. We have to deal with that first,” Ms Kurugunti said adding that union leaders have not had meetings about resumption of talks because they have been preoccupied with these urgent matters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ready-to-resume-talks-farmers/article33707171.ece
31 January 2021||Bengaluru,||Yediyurappa sets new deadlines for city works||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, who is also in charge of Bengaluru Development portfolio, held the first review of city development works taken up under the recently announced “Mission 2022” and Smart City Project on Saturday and set new deadlines. This assumes significance in the run-up to the State Budget. Senior officials said projects listed under Mission 2022 will be a blueprint for budgetary allocations in the upcoming State budget. “I will ensure there will be no shortage of funds for the city’s development,” said Mr. Yediyurappa, who also holds charge of the finance ministry. He pulled up officers for laxity and delays that are inconveniencing the public, set new deadlines and instituted a new monitoring mechanism. The Chief Secretary will monitor the progress of these works every week. Smart City Project Earlier in the day, the Chief Minister conducted an inspection of ongoing Smart City Project works in the core city, but ended up visiting roads that were recently completed and not those like Infantry Road, around Ulsoor Lake and Margosa Road, where works have been long delayed. He acknowledged the delay in road works taken up under the project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/yediyurappa-sets-new-deadlines-for-city-works/article33707206.ece
31 January 2021||Mangaluru,||‘Transport corporation staff to get their pending Dec. salary in four days’||Deputy Chief Minister and Transport Minister Laxman Savadi said here on Saturday that the employees of State transport corporations will get their pending salary for December in the next three or four days. Speaking to presspersons after his visit to the district BJP office, the Minister said that the employees had been given half of their salary for December. The balance will be released shortly. They will be given the full salary for January, he said. Mr. Savadi said that ever since the lockdown last year the transport department gave 1.3 lakh employees of the corporations their full salary till November, 2020. The government totally released Rs. 1,760 crore to the department towards the salary of its employees. In the initial two months of the lockdown none of the corporations operated their buses suffering huge losses. Then the government initially released Rs. 650 crore to pay the salary of employees. Later, the salary amount released was shared in the ratio of 75 (government): 25 (by corporations). Earlier, while addressing the party workers, the Minister said that after the impact of COVID-19 last year the economy in the State was slowly recovering. With this he hoped that the financial condition of the government would improve.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/transport-corporation-staff-to-get-their-pending-dec-salary-in-four-days/article33707614.ece
31 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||State’s defence helped combat COVID: Minister||Kerala raised a strong strategy-based defence against COVID-19 and the State can be proud of the fact that it has saved innumerable lives by ensuring that the peak of the epidemic was delayed and that the number of patients never went beyond the health system’s surge capacity, Health Minister K.K. Shylaja has said. The State had efficiently implemented the test, trace, quarantine and treat strategy, and had adopted the policy of hospitalising patients early so that they could be managed before the complications of COVID-19 set in. This policy of early hospitalisation and management was what helped the State keep its COVID-19 case fatality down at 0.4%, she added. The Minister was interacting with the media at a function here on Saturday to launch the Health Department’s ‘Back to Basics’ campaign. The campaign aims at communicating to the public the importance of maintaining vigil against COVID-19 and reducing disease transmission by strictly following all protocols. Ms. Shylaja claimed that the State, which has the highest population density in the country, could combat COVID well because of adequate preparedness, strict implementation of reverse quarantine, and innovative campaigns. Adequate testing She also refuted arguments that the State was not doing adequate testing and said that what Kerala did was testing in clusters as well as focussed testing of symptomatic people. She also disputed allegations that the State was not reporting all COVID deaths faithfully and said that all WHO regulations on death auditing was strictly followed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/states-defence-helped-combat-covid-minister/article33707486.ece
31 January 2021||CHENNAI,||Tamil Nadu suggests vaccination for elderly||Tamil Nadu has suggested to the Centre to allow vaccination of the elderly, along with frontline workers and healthcare providers, according to Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan. “We have created a session to cover 100 persons. If 40 or 60 healthcare providers come and frontline workers will be covered from February 1, there is still a gap. We can give priority to the elderly who are willing to get vaccinated. Permission can be granted for a State like Tamil Nadu. Experts are of the view that instead of vaccinating the elderly in the third phase, they can be inoculated simultaneously now. We have made this suggestion to the Centre, and they will look into it,” Dr. Radhakrishnan told reporters on Saturday. He said vaccination would continue for healthcare providers/workers, along with frontline workers. “This is not the last day of vaccination for healthcare workers. If they do not take the vaccine on their turn, they will go down the list,” he said. Covishield preferred Many persons avoided taking Covaxin as it was in phase-3 trials and preferred Covishield, he said. “But now, the trend has changed. Many are coming forward to take Covaxin. Both vaccines are safe,” he said, adding that there had been no complications so far. “We are starting vaccination for frontline workers from February 1. We have covered one lakh persons so far, and have a stock to vaccinate six lakh persons,” he said. Noting that the level of vaccination was improving in the State, he said the State had the capacity to vaccinate nearly 16,000 persons a day. “At times, there are unverified news on WhatsApp or some of them want to wait and see. Healthcare providers are being prioritised not to test the vaccine but because they are at the forefront of COVID-19 care,” he said. “The vaccination coverage of one lakh is good but we have achieved it slowly. We hope we will improve gradually,” he said, adding that the Centre would continue supplying the vaccines to the State. He said that on an average, 27 districts were reporting fewer than 15 COVID-19 cases a day. “The focus is on virus suppression to bring the number of cases down to zero in these districts. The other aim is to reduce mortality. We had 129 deaths on August 15, and the number had declined to five or six now owing to the efforts taken by medical teams. The aim is to achieve zero fatalities,” he said. On poor compliance with mask-wearing, the Health Secretary said shops and market areas were totally mask-less. “We should not be complacent because only 500 persons are testing positive for COVID-19,” he said. It was important to take steps to prevent the next wave of infections in the next two months, he said. Many persons avoided taking Covaxin as it was in phase-3 trials and preferred Covishield, he said. “But now, the trend has changed. Many are coming forward to take Covaxin. Both vaccines are safe,” he said, adding that there had been no complications so far. “We are starting vaccination for frontline workers from February 1. We have covered one lakh persons so far, and have a stock to vaccinate six lakh persons,” he said. Noting that the level of vaccination was improving in the State, he said the State had the capacity to vaccinate nearly 16,000 persons a day. “At times, there are unverified news on WhatsApp or some of them want to wait and see. Healthcare providers are being prioritised not to test the vaccine but because they are at the forefront of COVID-19 care,” he said. “The vaccination coverage of one lakh is good but we have achieved it slowly. We hope we will improve gradually,” he said, adding that the Centre would continue supplying the vaccines to the State. He said that on an average, 27 districts were reporting fewer than 15 COVID-19 cases a day. “The focus is on virus suppression to bring the number of cases down to zero in these districts. The other aim is to reduce mortality. We had 129 deaths on August 15, and the number had declined to five or six now owing to the efforts taken by medical teams. The aim is to achieve zero fatalities,” he said. On poor compliance with mask-wearing, the Health Secretary said shops and market areas were totally mask-less. “We should not be complacent because only 500 persons are testing positive for COVID-19,” he said. It was important to take steps to prevent the next wave of infections in the next two months, he said. The Health Secretary visited a 42-year-old woman from Erode district who was diagnosed to have ascending aortic aneurysm with dilated aortic root and severe aortic regurgitation, left renal artery stenosis and uncontrolled hypertension. She was referred to Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH) here for further management in November. She had suffered from COVID-19 pneumonia in October. She was admitted to the hospital again three weeks ago in the department of cardiovascular and thoracic surgery. A surgery was performed on January 22. A team, headed by A. Sivaraman, performed a valve sparing aortic root remodelling with ascending aortic replacement-David’s procedure. In this, the diseased aneurysmal segment of aorta was excised and replaced with a tube graft. This was designed into a trifoliate shape and sutured to form the aortic root followed by the repair of the damaged aortic valve and re-implantation of the coronary vessels supplying the heart to the graft. The patient recovered well in the post-operative period, and is awaiting discharge. RGGGH Dean E. Theranirajan was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tamil-nadu-suggests-vaccination-for-elderly/article33707271.ece
31 January 2021||Mangaluru,||8 CCB personnel in the dock for partying with accused||Police Commissioner N. Shashikumar has ordered a departmental inquiry against eight police personnel attached to the Central Crime Branch (CCB) on the charge of partying with a person accused of several offences. The Commissioner has also ordered the immediate transfer of three Assistant Sub Inspectors and five Head Police Constables from CCB to different police stations in the city as the initial disciplinary action. A video of the CCB personnel partying inside a bar in Kutthar, off Mangaluru, along with the accused, went viral on the social media. Mr. Kumar said Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order) K. Hariram Shankar would conduct the departmental inquiry. In a communique here, the Commissioner said, “It is very disappointing to see such conduct by our staff as it would jeopardise all our efforts to improve public perception and police image.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/8-ccb-personnel-in-the-dock-for-partying-with-accused/article33707612.ece
31 January 2021||January 31 2021 00:00 IST,||The hunter returns||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/the-hunter-returns/article33707211.ece
31 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||New COVID-19 vaccine likely by June: SII||Serum Institute of India (SII) chief Adar Poonawalla on Saturday said he is hopeful of launching a new COVID-19 vaccine under the brand name Covovax by June. The Institute had earlier applied to the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) for clearance to conduct a trial for the vaccine in India. According to a government official, the DCGI had reviewed SII’s application and asked them to submit a revised protocol. Covovax is being developed by American company Novavax. According to a recent press statement, the vaccine was found to be 89.3% effective in a U.K. trial and was nearly as effective in protecting against the U.K. variant. Mr. Poonawalla said SII’s partnership with Novavax, a vaccine undergoing trials for effectiveness against the novel coronavirus, has published “excellent efficacy results”. Taking to Twitter, Mr. Poonawalla wrote, “Our partnership for a COVID-19 vaccine with @Novavax has also published excellent efficacy results. We have also applied to start trials in India. Hope to launch #COVOVAX by June 2021!” Novavax’s vaccine contains a full-length, prefusion spike protein made using their recombinant nanoparticle technology and the company’s proprietary saponin-based Matrix-M adjuvant. The purified protein is encoded by the genetic sequence of the SARS-CoV-2 spike (S) protein and is produced in insect cells. It can neither cause COVID-19 nor replicate, is stable at 2 degrees Celsius to 8 degrees Celsius (refrigerated) and is shipped in a ready-to-use liquid formulation. Apart from Covovax, four more vaccines are in the pipeline for India.  (With inputs from ANI)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sii-hopes-to-launch-new-covid-19-vaccine-by-june/article33707170.ece
31 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||Ministers seek action against SEC||Ministers Peddireddi Ramachandra Reddy (Panchayat Raj) and Botcha Satyanarayana (Municipal Administration) submitted separate notices to Assembly Speaker Thammineni Seetharam seeking action against State Election Commissioner N. Ramesh Kumar for making libellous remarks and writing intimidating words on them in his letter to Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan, thereby affecting their privileges and respect as members of the House. They claimed that Mr. Ramesh Kumar made baseless allegations with the ulterior motive of defaming them. The Speaker should take action appropriate action against the SEC, the Ministers appealed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ministers-seek-action-against-sec/article33707175.ece
31 January 2021||January 31 2021 00:00 IST,||Unions point finger at BJP for violence||The BJP on Saturday came under sharp criticism from farmer outfits and political parties, a day after violence broke out at Delhi’s Singhu border during a protest reportedly by ‘locals’ seeking to evict agitating farmers from the site. Farmers have been protesting against the Centre’s farm laws for over two months at different sites on Delhi’s borders. Bharatiya Kisan Union (Rajewal) president Balibir Singh blamed BJP.Page 7||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/unions-point-finger-at-bjp-for-violence/article33707176.ece
31 January 2021||new delhi/GURUGRAM,||Fresh FIRs against Tharoor, senior scribes||Delhi Police and Gurugram Police have lodged FIRs against Congress MP Shashi Tharoor and six senior journalists, including Rajdeep Sardesai and Mrinal Pande, on charges of sedition, promoting enmity and criminal conspiracy, for posting “mala fide, defamatory, false and misleading” tweets accusing the Delhi police of killing a farmer during the tractor parade on Republic Day. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Central) Jasmeet Singh said a complaint was received at IP Estate police station. Based on the complaint, a case under Indian Penal Code Sections 153, 504, 505(1)(b), and 120B was lodged and investigation is under way, said Mr. Singh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/fresh-firs-against-tharoor-senior-scribes/article33707341.ece
31 January 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi reports 183 fresh cases, highest vaccination||The Capital witnessed 183 new COVID-19 cases over 24 hours, taking the tally to 6,34,956. A total of 8,774 healthcare workers were vaccinated in the city on Saturday, the highest single-day count till now.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/delhi-reports-183-fresh-cases-highest-vaccination/article33707343.ece
31 January 2021||Bengaluru,||Man dies after being pushed into well||A 27-year-old man drowned after his friend pushed him into a well, allegedly for fun, while other people in the group recorded the incident on their phones. The alleged incident took place on Saturday at Tavarekere.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/man-dies-after-being-pushed-into-well/article33707208.ece
31 January 2021||Kolkata,||5 TMC leaders meet Amit Shah in Delhi, join BJP||Five leaders of the Trinamool Congress, including three MLAs, on Saturday left for New Delhi and met Union Home Minister Amit Shah at his residence. They later joined the Bharatiya Janata Party. The five include former forest minister Rajib Banerjee; Vaishali Dalmiya, MLA from Bally; and Prabir Kumar Ghosal, MLA from Uttarpara . While Mr. Banerjee has resigned as MLA and from the Cabinet, the TMC has suspended Ms. Dalmiya. The other two are Rathin Chakraborty, former mayor of Howrah Municipal Corporation; and Parthasarathi Chattopadhyay former MLA from Ranaghat Paschim. These leaders will be present at a rally at Dumurjola stadium in Howrah district on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/5-tmc-leaders-meet-amit-shah-in-delhi-join-bjp/article33707545.ece
31 January 2021||Mumbai,||Reject Stan Swamy’s bail plea, says NIA||The National Investigation Agency on Saturday alleged that Father Stan Swamy, an accused in the Bhima Koregaon violence case, was accomplishing the agenda of Communist Party of India (Maoist) under the pretence of voicing concerns of the tribal community. It said that his bail plea must be rejected. Fr. Swamy, 83, is currently at Taloja Central Jail, after his arrest from Ranchi on October 9, 2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/reject-stan-swamys-bail-plea-says-nia/article33707633.ece
31 January 2021||Mumbai,||New laws will weaken mandi system: Pawar||Raising concerns over the three new farm laws, Nationalist Congress Party chief Sharad Pawar on Saturday said the legislation will adversely affect the Minimum Support Price procurement infrastructure and weaken the mandi system by restricting the power of agriculture markets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/new-laws-will-weaken-mandi-system-pawar/article33707634.ece
31 January 2021||MANGALURU,||41 new COVID-19 cases in DK, Udupi||Dakshina Kannada reported 28 new COVID-19 cases on Saturday. With 17 patients being discharged after treatment the active cases in the district stood at 289. Udupi district reported 13 new cases and the active cases stood at 43.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/41-new-covid-19-cases-in-dk-udupi/article33707615.ece
31 January 2021||Kolkata,||Five TMC leaders meet Amit Shah, join BJP||Five leaders of the Trinamool Congress — Rajib Banerjee, Vaishali Dalmiya, Prabir Kumar Ghosal, Parthasarathi Chattopadhyay and Rathin Chakraborty — met Union Home Minister Amit Shah at his residence in New Delhi on Saturday and joined the BJP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/five-tmc-leaders-meet-amit-shah-join-bjp/article33707344.ece
31 January 2021||LUCKNOW,||Trucker who threatened U.P. CM is granted bail||A truck driver jailed for allegedly threatening to kill Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath was granted bail by the Allahabad High Court which considered the accused’s apology and expression of “respect” towards the CM. The accused, Amar Pal Yadav, has been in jail since September 25, 2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/trucker-who-threatened-up-cm-is-granted-bail/article33707650.ece
31 January 2021||Hassan,||‘Govt. will start two goshalas in each taluk’||To ensure “not a single cow goes to a slaughterhouse”, the State government plans to set up two goshalas in every taluk, according to Prabhu Chavan, Minister for Animal Husbandry. Officials should take all steps necessary to stop illegal transportation of cattle, he said at a meeting in Hassan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-will-start-two-goshalas-in-each-taluk/article33707424.ece
31 January 2021||Bengaluru,||Govt. castigated over protracted inquiries||Reprimanding the government authorities for denying retirement benefits to employees by protracting departmental inquiries for over a decade, the High Court has directed the State government to complete departmental inquiries within the window of nine months, as set in the norms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-castigated-over-protracted-inquiries/article33707425.ece
31 January 2021||Hyderabad,||Two Hyderabadis die in accident||A man from Hyderabad and his mother were killed on the spot, and three of their relatives suffered injuries in a road accident near Eegalapenta in Nagarkurnool district here on Saturday. They were on a pilgrimage to Srisailam. According to Eegalapenta SI B. Pochaiah, the accident took place around 12.30 near Penugulagondi, 178 km from the State capital, after the victim, Chandrashekar, who was behind the wheels, suddenly lost control. The car turned toppled rolling over multiple times before coming to a halt. Chandrashekar’s mother Saraswathi (55) suffered injuries and died. They were residents of Monda Market, Secunderabad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/two-from-city-die-in-accident/article33707457.ece
31 January 2021||Chennai,||State records 505 infections, 5 deaths||Tamil Nadu reported 505 new cases of COVID-19 and five deaths on Saturday, taking the State’s tally to 8,37,832 and toll to 12,350. A total of 145 persons tested positive in Chennai. The number of active cases stood at 4,575.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-records-505-infections-5-deaths/article33707249.ece
31 January 2021||Madurai,||‘BJP will fight Assembly polls with AIADMK’||BJP chief J.P. Nadda on Saturday officially announced that the party would fight the ensuing Assembly election in Tamil Nadu with the ruling AIADMK. He said the party had regional aspirations, while also assimilating national ones.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bjp-will-fight-assembly-polls-with-aiadmk/article33707379.ece
31 January 2021||Madurai,||People think DMK is an evil force: Palaniswami||People of Tamil Nadu have an impression that the DMK is an “evil force”; so they will not allow the party to rule the State, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami said on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/people-think-dmk-is-an-evil-force-palaniswami/article33707251.ece
31 January 2021||Chennai,||Loan waiver is feasible, not a gimmick: Stalin||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Saturday rejected the allegation that his electoral promise of waiving educational, crop and jewellery loans would result in a huge debt burden.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/loan-waiver-is-feasible-not-a-gimmick-stalin/article33707252.ece
31 January 2021||January 31 2021 00:00 IST,||The spymaster who touched a ‘raw’ nerve||The first and only encounter this reporter had with Mohammad Asad Durrani, a former chief of Pakistan’s Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) Directorate, currently facing the ire of his own Army establishment, was at the sprawling residence of an Indian diplomat in Islamabad. Lt. Gen Durrani (retd), who served as the ISI chief in 1990-92, had returned from a stint as the country’s Ambassador to Germany (1994-97). At the reception, the former spymaster seemed reluctant to talk. In 2000, Gen. Pervez Musharraf sent him as Pakistan’s Ambassador to Saudi Arabia, possibly one of four key assignments for Rawalpindi/Islamabad. In short, Gen. Durrani was a pillar of the Pakistani establishment. For Indians, Gen. Durrani has been in the news because he co-authored along with A.S. Dulat, a former Research & Analysis Wing (R&AW) chief, and journalist Aditya Sinha a book, Spy Chronicles – RAW, ISI and the Illusion of Peace in 2018 . But it landed him in trouble in Pakistan. On May 28, 2018, the Pakistani Inter-Services Public Relations (ISPR) Directorate announced on Twitter: “Lt. Gen. Asad Durrani, Retired was called at GHQ today to explain his position on recently launched book ‘Spy Chronicles’. A formal Court of Inquiry headed by a serving Lt. Gen. has been ordered to probe the matter in detail. Competent authority approached to place his name on ECL.” The ECL, or the Exit Control List, was a list of persons prohibited from leaving the country that is usually reserved for out-of-favour politicians, criminals and other sundry offenders. Born in Rawalpindi on February 7, 1941, Gen. Durrani joined the Pakistani Army in 1959. According to a short biography on the ISI website, “during his 34 years with the Army, he served in a number of command, staff and instructional appointments”, and took part in the Indo-Pakistan wars of 1965 and 1971. Besides heading the ISI, Gen. Durrani, a graduate from the General Staff Academy, Germany, had held posts such as Director General of Military Intelligence; Inspector General, Training and Evaluation at General Headquarters (GHQ); and Commandant, National Defense College. He retired in May 1993. On January 27, Pakistan’s Defence Ministry informed the Islamabad High Court that Gen. Durrani had been “affiliated/interacting with hostile elements, especially the Indian RAW, since 2008”, in response to a petition filed by the former ISI chief, challenging the decision to place him on the ECL. The Defence Ministry submitted before the High Court that The Spy Chronicles contained “certain contents [sic] concerning [the] national security of Pakistan, being in contravention of the provisions of the Official Secrets Acts, 1923”. “It is further highlighted that there are [a] number of such publications on the way, supported by hostile elements which contain content to create misperception, confusions, [sic] question marks against the top leadership circles at country level and to target the common people,” the Defence Ministry stated. So, what was earlier an innuendo is now out in the open. It’s clear that the Pakistani establishment can’t tolerate the “collaboration” of even retired spymasters on book projects. Both Gen. Durrani and Mr. Dulat are experienced practitioners of the game — much too embedded in the narrative of their own State to give anything away even to sell their book. The Defence Ministry, in its reply, has also given away a key reason about why Gen. Durrani was placed on the ECL: the former spymaster was raising questions about the “top leadership” of the country. That’s possibly the nub of the issue — that Gen. Durrani has rubbed some very important people in Pakistan the wrong way. Osama bin Laden raid In a December 2020 interview to BBC Urdu, Gen. Durrani candidly admitted that the Pakistani Army does interfere in politics — something that is well known but rarely admitted in public by even retired pillars of the Pakistani establishment. Pointing to the public perception about the Army’s interference in domestic politics, Gen. Durrani said: “Even if they [the Army] are not there, it appears that they play a role.” Raising questions about the current leadership of the country, he said their credibility was in question — they tend to go back on everything. “I have touched a raw nerve,” he said, tongue firmly in cheek. Gen. Durrani added that many retired officers had written books without permission, but it was he who had been targeted by the Army establishment. He is also aware that he ruffled many feathers when he told Al Jazeera in 2015 that it was more probably that the ISI knew about Osama Bin Laden’s presence in Abbotabad. “I cannot say exactly what happened but... it is quite possible that they [the ISI] did not know but it was more probable that they did.” Gen. Durrani also stated in the interview that Bin Laden was handed over to the Americans in exchange for an agreement on “how to bring the Afghan problem to an end”. Bin Laden was killed in a May 2011 operation in Abbotabad by American special forces acting on their own. On whether Bin Laden’s hideout in Abbotabad was an ISI safe house, Gen. Durrani responded: “If the ISI was doing that, then I would say they were doing a good job. And if they revealed his location, they again probably did what was required to be done.” It will be interesting to see how the Islamabad High Court will rule on Gen. Durrani’s request to get himself off the ECL, but the fact is that he is clearly out of favour with the current establishment and Army Chief Qamar Javed Bajwa. Any observer of the Pakistani scene will be aware that the Army has a mysterious way of managing court verdicts without seeming to have done so. The Court’s ruling will be closely watched. Violence in Kashmir From an Indian perspective, Gen. Durrani was the ISI chief at the time when Pakistan unleashed one of the worst mayhems possible in Jammu & Kashmir — kidnappings and killings were rampant and a whole array of terrorist outfits were created and fostered by the ISI. It is also true that his co-author of The Spy Chronicles , A.S. Dulat, was in the Indian Intelligence Bureau at a time when the IB was trying to blunt the militancy that was being exported to India by the ISI in Jammu & Kashmir. The fact is that the Pakistani establishment has a thin skin when it comes to statements that deviate from the “line” to be taken on television talk shows and newspaper articles. Track two dialogues serve the purpose of bringing foes to the same table. Even behind closed doors, this type of dialogue generates much noise and disagreement between Indians and Pakistanis and is often moderated by Americans or Europeans. Still, it is a meeting point to at least hear the other perspective directly. It becomes all the more important at a time when the last time an Indian Prime Minister met his Pakistani counterpart was more than five years ago — when Narendra Modi arrived almost unannounced — at Nawaz Sharif’s massive Raiwind home on Christmas Day in 2015. Retired spies may be collaborating, but their governments are not.  In Focus  Born in Rawalpindi on February 7, 1941, Gen. Durrani joined the Pakistani Army in 1959 and took part in the Indo-Pakistan wars of 1965 and 1971  Besides heading the ISI, Gen. Durrani had held posts such as DG of Military Intelligence; IG, Training and Evaluation at GHQ; and Commandant, National Defense College  The Pakistan establishment turned against him after he co-authored a book with a former Indian RAW chief, and raised criticism against his country’s leadership   The book Durrani co-wrote with A.S. Dulat ‘contained certain contents concerning national security, and is in contravention of the Official Secrets Acts,’ says Pakistan||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/the-spymaster-who-touched-a-raw-nerve/article33707147.ece
31 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||At 97, Achuthanandan signals withdrawal from active politics||Veteran Communist Party of India (Marxist) leader V.S. Achuthanandan has signalled that he is withdrawing from public life. In a statement here on Saturday, the 97-year-old former Kerala Chief Minister said he could not continue as chairman of the Administrative Reforms Commission (ARC) due to health reasons. A brain bleed had compelled him to follow a strict regimen. Doctors have severely restricted his activities. He found it hard-pressed to hold meetings or attend discussions. “In the current circumstance, I have informed the government that I am resigning as commission chairperson with effect from January 31,” he said. Mr. Achuthanandan had relinquished his official residence last month and moved to his son’s house in the capital. He is the incumbent MLA of the Malampuzha constituency in Palakkad. He has represented the Assembly segment since 2001. Mr. Achuthanandan recapped his work in the commission. (The ARC had submitted 11 reports to the government and two more were in the works). The detailed reports were the fruits of the joint effort of hundreds of persons. He expressed his gratitude to those who had cooperated with the commission and facilitated its work.  Follow-up action Subsequent government action on the commission's recommendations would determine the value of the public money used up by the forum. “I expect it [follow-up measures on the part of the government] will happen,” he said. Mr. Achuthanandan is likely to maintain a small office. He had pared down his public appearances since early 2019. Mr. Achuthanandan, who rarely missed an opportunity to react to social issues and political developments, seemed to recede slowly from public life. He had made a brief public appearance to endorse V.K. Prasanth of the CPI(M) from Vattiyurkavu seat for the Assembly byelection in 2019. Mr. Achuthanandan was the Left Democratic Front's star election campaigner for long. His lilting oratory speckled with biting political satire drew huge crowds. However, it is unlikely that he will fire-up the coming election scene as in the past.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/at-97-achuthanandan-signals-withdrawal-from-active-politics/article33707112.ece
31 January 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Unions point finger at BJP for violence||The BJP on Saturday came under sharp criticism from farmer outfits and political parties, a day after violence broke out at Delhi’s Singhu border during a protest reportedly by ‘locals’ seeking to evict agitating farmers from the protest site. Farmers have been protesting against the Centre’s farm laws for over two months at different sites on Delhi’s borders. Bharatiya Kisan Union (Rajewal) president Balibir Singh on Saturday blamed the BJP and the RSS for the stone-pelting incident on farmers at the Singhu border site. He also accused the Centre of attempting to provoke farmers in a bid to trigger violence at the protest sites. “The stone pelting at Singhu border was also conspiracy of the BJP-led government. The government is making all kind of efforts to defame the ongoing agitation by misleading people through false propaganda,” said Mr. Singh, addressing a press conference in Chandigarh. Mr. Singh said farmers’ outfits were not averse to talks with the Centre and whenever an invitation is extended, they will go for talks. “When a proposal (from the government) will come then we will talk; we don’t walk away from talks,” he said. Stating that the agitation has recovered from the January 26 episode, Mr. Singh said people in huge numbers have started to come to the protest sites near Delhi borders. ‘Agitation peaceful’ “The agitation is completely peaceful and it’s our responsibility to keep the agitation peaceful, which we are doing. People from Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and Uttarakhand are reaching the protest sites to ensure that the agitation doesn’t lose the momentum,” said Mr. Singh. He added that in the next two-three days, hopefully by February 2, people in record numbers will reach the sites. Former BJP ally Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) demanded that the Central government launch criminal proceedings against all those who were involved in attacking the farmer camp at Singhu. “Delhi police personnel as well as “goons” of the BJP were involved in state terrorism by attacking the farmer camp at the Singhu border, besides beating up Sikh youth mercilessly and insulting their articles of faith,” alleged senior SAD leader and former minister Bikram Singh Majithia, adding that cases should be registered against police personnel and others. “Also, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh should register appropriate cases against them and take follow up action,” he added at another press conference in Chandigarh. Mr. Majithia said no concrete action had been taken against Deep Sidhu and Lakha Sidana, who he alleged had jointly played into the hands of the central government on the Republic Day during the Red Fort incident. Aam Aadmi Party also accused the BJP of suppressing the ongoing farmers' movement on Delhi borders and demanded that the Punjab government provide police protection to the struggling farmers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/unions-point-finger-at-bjp-for-violence/article33707124.ece
31 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘We raised level of alert near the embassy’||The Israeli embassy was on a higher level of alert in the past few weeks after reprisal threats from the Iranian leadership over the killings of General Qasim Soleimani (in January 2020) and senior nuclear scientist Mohsen Fakhrizadeh, says Israeli Ambassador to India Ron Malka , a day after an improvised explosive device (IED) went off a few metres away from its embassy in Delhi. Police are yet to confirm any leads they are following, but the Ambassador says the blast is being treated as a terrorist attack that could be connected to a previous attack in 2012 that was suspected to be linked to an Iranian group. The Iranian embassy did not respond to the comments.  What kind of impact did the IED blast have on the embassy and what can you share about the investigation thus far? Well, fortunately, the embassy property was not harmed, the only damage was to a few cars that were parked on the road. The assumption as of now is that it is a terrorist attack, targeting the Israeli embassy in New Delhi. That’s a strong assumption as of now. We still don’t know who is behind this attack. So, we’re just collecting all the pieces of information and the evidence that we have at the scene, trying to understand who is behind this attack. Israeli embassy officials were targeted in 2012. Is there any sense that this could be related with that attack? It is an option. Of course, we are also investigating this, this option to see if there are any dots that we can connect. And we cannot cancel this option, of course, but what I can tell you what they can do, that it might not be a coincidence that the attack was conducted on the day we celebrated the anniversary of the forming of full diplomatic relations with India. So, whether it is connected or not, again, this is something that we need to investigate and to explore. Are you saying that the relationship between India and Israel could have also been the target? Yes, might be states or non-state actors that might not like relations between Israel and India and see it as a threat? If that’s the case, maybe this is one of their incentives for this evil, cowardly attack. But incidents like this make the relationship only stronger. The Minister of External Affairs, the Foreign Secretary, the NSA all called just to offer their support and assistance and to give assurances that they’re going to take all the steps needed to protect Israeli representatives in India and to fulfil this investigation properly. Was there any discussion about a possible joint investigation? Whatever value we can add to this investigation, whether it’s [counter-terrorism] experience, information and practices… I’m sure that Israel and India know how to work together. Look, we as Israeli diplomats are always very well prepared. We are not surprised. We know that our enemy sees us as targets. So, on a regular basis, we have very high levels of security. Especially in the last few weeks, we raised the level of alert. So, we are not surprised [by the attack]. Was the high level of alert related to specific intelligence you received? See, you don’t need an intelligence input to see that there were threats in the last few weeks over the assassination of (General) Soleimani and (nuclear scientist) Fakhrizadeh, just to mention, and other operations in Syria…some organisations and countries blame Israel for these and threatened that they are going to retaliate and say they will make Israel pay. So, we raised the level of alert.  We are not surprised. We know that our enemy sees us as targets||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/we-raised-level-of-alert-near-the-embassy/article33707143.ece
31 January 2021||January 31 2021 00:00 IST,||The constable-turned-crusader||For months, government spokespersons and a section of the media were looking for a leader among the consortium of more than three dozen farmer unions protesting against the farm laws. On the night of January 28, they finally found one in Rakesh Tikait, the national spokesperson of the Bhartiya Kisan Union, who broke down before the media, alleging that there’s a “conspiracy against farmers”. His critics might call his emotional outburst a smart political move but Rakesh Tikait, the second son of Mahendra Singh Tikait, the mercurial farmer leader who revived the BKU in the late 1980s with a string of dramatic protests in Muzaffarnagar and Meerut against the then Congress government, provided a new spark with his tears and tenacity to the dying embers at the Ghazipur border protest site. Till January 28, the BKU was just playing a supporting role at Singhu and Tikri. In fact, when Mr. Tikait first emerged at the U.P. Gate on Ghazipur border on December 28 with scores of his supporters, the impression was that he would be used by the ruling party as a bulwark to keep the restive Punjab and Haryana farmers in check. Even those in the All India Kisan Sangharsh Committee took time to believe his commitment. After the dramatic turns of events on Thursday, the Ghazipur border became the gravitational centre pulling in support. And the 51-year-old constable-turned-farmer leader emerged as an unlikely hero. Media savvy all along, he maintained that he voted for the BJP but the party didn’t live up to its promises. In the early days of the protest, his concerns were as much about pending payment of sugarcane crop, rising prices of diesel and electricity as the farm laws. “The government is looking to privatise agriculture and is looking at farmers just as labour,” he told The Hindu in early December. He courted controversy when he asked temple trusts to donate to the farmer protest as they do during the Kanwar Yatra (an annual Hindu pilgrimage). The local BJP leaders and Ghaziabad administration failed to realise that their political clout might have reduced but the status of Mahendra Singh Tikait and Chaudhary Charan Singh clans remains intact in western U.P. The ties between the two families had become tenuous after the 2013 Muzaffarnagar riots, but on Thursday, Ajit Singh, Charan Singh’s son and leader of theRashtriya Lok Dal(RLD), was the first one to call Mr. Tikait to say that he is there for the farm leader. Support pours in Mr. Tikait’s breakdown video, along with a tweet of support by RLD vice-president Jayant Chaudhary, spread like wildfire in the sugarcane belt of U.P., Haryana and Rajasthan. His tears were seen as an insult to the farmer’s dignity and a huge crowd turned up for a farmers’ ‘Mahapanchayat’ called by the BKU in Muzaffarnagar and Mathura. More importantly, it bolstered his position as an undisputed leader of farmers in western Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand. After his rival V.M. Singh of the Rashtriya Kisan Mazdoor Sangathan left the protest site on Wednesday, holding Mr. Tikait responsible for the Republic Day incidents, Mr. Tikait warned against using the incident to tarnish the Sikh community. “We rushed to Ghazipur once we heard his outburst. He is our sole leader now,” said Sewak Singh Siddhu, a prominent farmer from Udham Singh Nagar, Uttarakhand. Shamim Hussain, a farmer from Bulandshahr, who reached the protest site to offer water to Mr. Tikait, saw hope in the revival of the Jat-Muslim amity that marked the region before the Muzaffarnagar riots. Interestingly, it was after the riots that the Tikait brothers, Rakesh and Naresh, gradually tilted towards the BJP. Senior BJP leader Rajnath Singh had supported Rakesh Tikait during his protest against the Congress government ahead of the 2014 Lok Sabha elections. However, Mr. Tikait didn’t completely burn his bridges with Ajit Singh. He fought the 2014 election on the RLD ticket from Amroha, finishing fourth. Rajvir Singh, a veteran BKU hand, who has worked closely with the Tikait brothers, says though the pagdi of Baba Tikait passed on to the elder brother, it is Rakesh Tikait who is the true inheritor of his father’s legacy. “While Naresh limited himself to Muzaffarnagar, the more astute Rakesh accompanied his father to the protest sites. Police detention and jail are not new to him.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/the-constable-turned-crusader/article33707149.ece
31 January 2021||January 31 2021 00:00 IST,||Disruptors on the money street||A week ago, not many outside the world of investing would have even heard of a Reddit community called WallStreetBets. In the last few days, however, the community’s giant-killing act of almost toppling a successful hedge fund and subsequently disrupting normalcy in Wall Street has ensured that it can’t be that obscure any more. It is being talked about all over the Internet, and cheered by those who see it as a typical David Vs Goliath story, one in which the underdog takes on a strong and powerful rival and thrives. Others see true democracy in action. And those in the conventional investing world worry about the entry of a new complication in matters of money-making. Amid all this attention and adulation, the community has added close to 5 million members in just a few days. WallStreetBets’ overnight leap to stardom cannot be explained without talking about who or what its brand new admirers consider to be the Goliath in this story: a New York hedge fund called Melvin Capital. What Melvin Capital did was what hedge funds usually do — take short positions in stocks using a lot of borrowed money. A short position is essentially a bet on the price of a stock going down. Investors who take such positions do so by selling borrowed stock at the prevailing market price. The logic is: when the price falls, they can buy it at that lower price, thereby making a profit. They would then be able to return the stock to those who owned it in the first place. But what if the price doesn’t fall but, instead, climbs and keeps climbing? That means trouble. And that’s precisely the situation Melvin Capital was forced to face when a bunch of retail investors in WallStreetBets decided, for some reason, to go after its short positions in a company called GameStop, a video game and consumer electronics retailer based in Grapevine, Texas. Their heavy buying of the GameStop stock not just caused its price to rise, against Melvin Capital’s expectations, but the latter found it difficult to cover its short positions, which it had to via the purchase of increasingly expensive stock, as the buying continued. This retailer has certainly seen better times. That is more or less the import of analyst reports about GameStop in recent months. “As customer attitudes have shifted in buying digital media online, GameStop has suddenly found itself on the losing side of history,” one analyst wrote in December 2020. For much of 2020, its stock was trading at well below $10. Out of sync But as the WallStreetBets-Melvin Capital drama reached its climax in the latter half of January, the stock reached $325 (the price at which it closed on January 29), which is completely out of sync with the fundamentals of the company, if the analysts are to be believed. But, as a Twitter user put it, GameStop is “just a piece of rope” in the tug of war between WallStreetBets and Melvin Capital. The hedge fund, after suffering heavily, closed its position in GameStop. It also got a lifeline of $2.75 billion from two other funds. It survives. There is no apparent reason to believe that the WallStreetBets had a specific dislike for Melvin Capital or, for that matter, affection for GameStop. But many members have recalled their painful memories of dealing with the economic troubles in 2008, something that they blame Wall Street for. One such message, addressing Melvin Capital, said, “You stand for everything that I hated during that time.” WallStreetBets was started in 2012 by Jaime Rogozinski, a 39-year-old consultant in Mexico. His idea was to have “a place where sophisticated investors could swap tips about high-risk, high-reward short-term trading strategies,” says a 2018 article in Money.com. By this time, the investing ecosystem was starting to hear about this unorthodox community of retail investors. Mr. Rogozinski himself had downplayed the role of his community as a source of business intelligence in an interview last year. He said, “Financial ideas? Perhaps. People look for them everywhere and WSB (WallStreetBets) is an extremely entertaining forum, so it’s entirely possible that people go for the entertainment and walk away with financial ideas.” WallStreetBets has already given plenty of ideas to disruptors and plenty of worries to the establishment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/disruptors-on-the-money-street/article33707151.ece
31 January 2021||New Delhi,||‘7% of those aged 10 years or older exposed to virus by August 2020’||Approximately one in 15 individuals aged 10 years or older in India is likely to have gone through a SARS-CoV-2 infection by August 18, 2020, according to the findings of a survey published in the Lancet Global Health . Adult sero-prevalence increased approximately tenfold between May and August, 2020, said the survey that was funded by the Indian Council of Medical Research. The study, titled ‘SARS-CoV-2 antibody sero-prevalence in India, August-September 2020’, found that sero-prevalence was highest in urban slums. The survey added that the lower infection-to-case ratio in August than in May reflected a substantial increase in testing across the country. Serum samples were collected from 29,082 individuals from 15,613 households between August 18-September 20, 2020. The findings noted that the second nationwide serosurvey indicated that nearly 7% of India’s population aged 10 years or older had been exposed to SARS-CoV-2 infection by August, 2020, with an estimated 74 million infections. Sero-prevalence did not differ by age group or sex, but was higher in urban areas, especially in the slums, when compared to rural areas. Sero-prevalence among adults increased by about ten times, from 0.7% in May to 7.1% in August. All 70 districts surveyed showed a rise in IgG seropositivity between the two serosurveys, although the change was highly variable. The first serosurvey was done in May–June, 2020, among adults aged 18 years or older from 21 States. It found a SARS-CoV-2 IgG antibody sero-prevalence of 0.73% . The sero-prevalence of SARS-CoV-2 antibodies is important to understand the transmission dynamics of the virus, estimate total infections, including mild and asymptomatic individuals who might not receive testing and inform the possibility of transmission interruption through the depletion of susceptible individuals, if sero-conversion is associated with robust immunity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/7-of-those-aged-10-years-or-older-exposed-to-virus-by-august-2020/article33707136.ece
31 January 2021||Hassan,||Karnataka govt. to set up 2 cow shelters in every taluk||The Karnataka government plans to set up two goshalas in every taluk to ensure that “not a single cow goes to slaughterhouse”, Prabhu Chavan, Minister for Animal Husbandry, has said. Officials of the Animal Husbandry and Veterinary Department, the police, and various district administrations should do everything necessary to stop illegal transportation of cattle, he said at a meeting in Hassan. The government had promulgated a strong ordinance prohibiting the slaughter of cattle and it had to be implemented effectively. “A stronger law to stop the slaughter of cattle was part of the BJP agenda. The new law has stringent punishment for those who violated it. In the earlier version, the penalty was only Rs. 1,000. Now it has been increased to up to Rs. 3 lakh. Earlier, imprisonment was only for six months. Now, offenders can be imprisoned for up to seven years.” On distressed farmers abandoning male calves since they cannot sell them, the Minister said such cattle would be sent to goshalas. At present, there are 159 goshalas across the State. “I have instructed the revenue officers to identify land for setting up more goshalas,” he said.   Slaughter of buffaloes aged over 13 was allowed in the anti-cow slaughter law for the benefit of people who eat beef and to feed animals in zoos, Mr. Chavan said. Slaughter of buffaloes was allowed in the law that existed since 1964, though the age limit was 12 then. “Now, the slaughtering of a buffalo is also not as easy. Veterinarians concerned have to issue certificates,” he said.  Earlier, the jail term for cattle slaughter was only six months. Now, imprisonment can be for up to 7 years Prabhu Chavan Animal Husbandry Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/karnataka-govt-to-set-up-2-cow-shelters-in-every-taluk/article33707106.ece
31 January 2021||Ghaziabad,||‘We want to bring talks back on track’||Responding to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s appeal that he was just a phone call away, BKU leader Rakesh Tikait said farmers were open for talks as dialogue was the only way to resolve the crisis. “We want to bring the talks back on track and resolve the issue. We hope to have a timeline for talks in the coming days,” he said. Mr. Tikait said he believed in the Constitution and would follow the due process in the cases that have been filed against him. The BKU leader has been named along with other farmers leaders in FIRs filed by the Delhi Police in connection with the violence in the national capital on Republic Day. He appealed to farmers of Haryana and Punjab to keep the protest alive at the Singhu and Tikri border and criticised the MHA order to suspend Internet at the protest sites. BKU spokesperson Dharmendra Malik said water supply had been restored by the Ghaziabad administration but the Internet speed remained dismal through the day. Meanwhile, the flow of farmers at the Ghazipur border continued to swell on Saturday. Two dozen women from Shamli came to the protest site carrying earthen pots with water on their heads responding to the administration’s decision to cut water supply to the protest site. Mr. Tikait had then said he would drink only water from his village. The stream of political leaders also continued at the Ghazipur site Late in the afternoon, Indian National Lok Dal leader Abhay Chautala, who recently resigned from the Haryana Assembly in protest against the farm laws reached Ghazipur border with supporters in a fleet of SUVs. “Farmers don’t harass anybody but if somebody harasses them, they don’t spare anybody,” he said. On Friday evening, Bhim Army Chief Chandrashekhar Azad reached the site and described Mr Tikait as his elder brother. Earlier addressing the farmers, Mr. Tikait said he didn’t cry on Thursday. “Tikait didn’t cry and will not cry. It could be water of the fields,” he said metaphorically.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/we-want-to-bring-talks-back-on-track/article33707117.ece
31 January 2021||January 31 2021 00:00 IST,||China is still largest source of critical imports for India||China still remains the largest source of critical imports for India, from mobile phone components to pharmaceutical ingredients, and India is working on a multi-pronged strategy to reduce this reliance, which is a bigger concern than the imbalance in trade. “The trade deficit is not in dollars, it is in overdependence,” said Sanjay Chadha, Additional Secretary in the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, speaking at the All India Conference of China Studies (AICCS), organised by the Institute of Chinese Studies (ICS) Delhi and Indian Institute of Technology Madras (IIT-M). “A mobile phone requires 85% content coming from one country. If China were to stop the active pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs) for penicillin, we would not be able to produce it in this country. When somebody controls your production, that is a sentiment which raises concern.” PLI scheme Mr. Chadha said that India was working on a multi-pronged strategy to reduce this dependence, ranging from the Production Linked Incentive (PLI) scheme to boost domestic manufacturing, a global effort involving India’s foreign missions to find alternatives to China, and the use of free trade agreements (FTAs) with other trading partners. COVID-19 had helped accelerate this change. When production in China was hit early in 2020, although its economy would recover by the summer and become the only major economy to avoid contraction last year, India shared with its foreign missions lists of items critically dependent on China, following which the missions linked up with suppliers in their countries. Mr. Chadha, however, sounded a note of caution, suggesting this process was at the beginning, not the end. “We have to keep in mind China is still our largest source of imports for critical items,” he said, “and our pharmaceuticals and electronics sectors are hugely dependent on China.” What offered opportunities for India was the push from many countries to not necessarily relocate from China - which still remains integral to global supply chains - but to diversify, with future capacity expansion up for grabs. The PLI scheme is hoping to capture that diversification. “If 85% of my components [for mobile phones] is dependent on one country, should I not have a production linked incentive to have the big companies come here? We have seen Apple start manufacturing in India. The PLI is going to accelerate that investment.” Mr. Chadha said this was “not so much a China obsession as it is to try and make supply chains resilient, either by way of adding or diversify sources”. China still remained the biggest source of India’s imports, but imports last year fell 10.8%, the lowest since 2016. Two-way trade in 2020 reached $87.6 billion, down by 5.6%, while the trade deficit declined to a five year-low of $45.8 billion. Mr. Chadha noted that steel imports had fallen from a high of $2.8 billion to less than $1 billion, with China replaced by South Korea in part because of an FTA. India in 2019 withdrew from the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP), which would have put India and China in the same trading bloc. “The FTA,” he said referring to the example of steel, “is resulting in diversification for free.” On the trade front with China, he said India’s exporters had struggled for years but made little headway because of a number of non-tariff barriers. In 2018, both sides signed a number of protocols, including for rice and tobacco, but “none of this materialised in substantial trade”. India’s exports to China did, however, cross $20 billion for the first time last year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/china-still-largest-source-of-critical-imports-for-india/article33707127.ece
31 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Letter found at blast site leaves investigators puzzled||The letter found at the site of the blast near the Israeli embassy in New Delhi mentions two organisations that have left investigators puzzled, sources said on Saturday. A senior police officer said the organisations have not been heard of before. A screenshot mentions “Jaish-ul-Hind” taking responsibility for the Friday blast, a few kilometres from Vijay Chowk where the Beating Retreat ceremony was under way. Addressed to the Israeli Ambassador, the letter also makes a threat and calls the explosion a ‘trailer’. It names two “Iranian martyrs”, Qasim Soleimani and Mohsen Fakhrizadeh. On Saturday, a team of Delhi police’s Special Cell visited the site. A crime team consisting of forensic experts have also collected samples that will ascertain the chemical composition in the low-intensity improvised explosive device (IED). Ball bearings were found scattered and the impact was felt in a radius of 20-25 metres. Glass panes of three vehicles were damaged, though no injuries were reported. Security has been increased at the embassy. Investigators probing the minor blast have not come across “anything concrete” yet as most of the CCTV cameras near the site were “non-functional”, police sources said. Earlier, footage retrieved from CCTV cameras showed a vehicle moving suspiciously near the embassy just before the explosion, sources said.  (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/letter-found-at-the-blast-site-leaves-investigators-puzzled/article33707138.ece
31 January 2021||JAIPUR,||Gehlot urges PM to hold talks with farmers||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Saturday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to hold “direct talks” with the farmers protesting against the Centre’s agriculture sector laws in order to resolve the issue in the aftermath of the violence in Delhi on Republic Day. Mr. Gehlot expressed concern over the stalemate, while condemning the violence at the Red Fort and elsewhere. Speaking to reporters at an event marking the launch of a health insurance scheme here, Mr. Gehlot said the NDA government still had an opportunity to correct its stance and reverse the decision on the controversial farm legislations. “There is nothing wrong with changing the decisions. Such situations do arise in a democracy... It should not be made a prestige point,” he said. While asking for an early decision in the matter, Mr. Gehlot said a prolonged agitation by the farmers was neither desirable nor in the interest of the country. “The government did not allow a debate on the Bills in the Parliament. Now the clashes are happening at the behest of BJP leaders who are instigating the villagers to attack the farmers. This is unfair.” The CM also questioned the NDA government’s unwillingness to order a judicial inquiry into the violence in the national capital. A fair probe would expose the anti-social elements which indulged in the rampage and vitiated the atmosphere, he said, adding that the farmers had protested peacefully for about 70 days. Revamped scheme The health insurance scheme was launched after renaming the Centre’s Ayushman Bharat Scheme as the Ayushman Bharat Mahatma Gandhi Rajasthan Health Insurance Scheme. The revamped scheme will provide health care benefits to about 1.10 crore families in the State and include COVID-19 care and haemodialysis in its purview.  There is nothing wrong with changing the decisions. Such situations do arise in a democracy... It should not be made a prestige point Ashok Gehlot||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/gehlot-urges-pm-to-hold-talks-with-farmers/article33707346.ece
31 January 2021||KOTTAYAM,||Battle over Pala heats up much ahead of elections||Even though leading coalitions have just kick-started their seat-sharing talks for the Assembly elections due in April/May, the battle for Pala is beginning to heat up much ahead. Amid reports of a purported move by the Left Democratic Front (LDF) to hand over the seat to the Kerala Congress (M) led by Jose K. Mani, sitting legislator Mani C. Kappan plans a fight back with a carefully arranged display of belligerence. A rally Accordingly, he will soon be taking out a rally across the constituency to highlight the development initiatives taken up over the last 15 months since the byelection in 2019. The Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader will be using the event as a platform to interact directly with the voters, collecting their feedback on the projects to be implemented while addressing their complaints. The event, which is slated to begin at Thalanad on February 10, will conclude at Pala two weeks later. Non-committal Despite the claim that the rally will be organised with the support of all constituents in the LDF, the coalition appears non-committal on the programme. “Whether the LDF will be part of the rally or not will be known after a meeting between senior NCP leaders, including A.K. Saseendran, Mr. Kappan and T.P. Peethambaran, with party president Sharad Pawar in New Delhi on February 3. If Mr. Kappan refuses to compromise on his stance over Pala, the LDF will stay away from it,” said an LDF leader. Official sources said here that among the options available for a settlement included a Rajya Sabha seat with a full term of six years or an Assembly seat for Mr. Kappan. Meanwhile, the KC(M) on Saturday kicked off its election works in Pala with an event marking the 88th birth anniversary of the late Kerala Congress (M) leader K.M. Mani.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/battle-over-pala-heats-up-much-ahead-of-elections/article33707515.ece
31 January 2021||Bengaluru,||Farmers observe a day’s fast||Farmers in the State, protesting against the three new Central farm laws and the amendments made to the Karnataka land reforms Act, observed a one-day fast on Martyrs’ Day on Saturday. Farmers’ unions, under the banner of Samyukta Horata-Karnataka, held a protest and fast at Freedom Park and passed resolutions demanding the rollback of the controversial laws and condemning the “attacks on farmers” and attempts by the Union government to “suppress” the farmers’ movement in Delhi. “The tractor rally on Republic Day mostly passed off peacefully. But there was some violence because of intruders into the movement, a conspiracy by the government. We demand an impartial inquiry into the violence,” they said in a statement. Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly and Congress leader Siddaramaiah visited the protest venue to express solidarity with the agitators. He came down heavily on the BJP for its “anti-farmer” policies. “The BJP has now brought in a law banning cattle slaughter altogether, in order to target a particular community. But it will hit farmers also badly. What should our farmers do with their male calves and old cattle? It is a burden on the farmers who are already fighting for survival,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/farmers-observe-a-days-fast/article33707213.ece
31 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||India should rise to challenges, says PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi told National Democratic Alliance (NDA) constituents that India needed to rise to the challenges posed by the new world order shaped by the pandemic, but the shadow of the bitter falling out between NDA parties — the Janata Dal (U) and the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) — during the Bihar Assembly elections loomed large over the grouping at its first meeting this parliamentary session. The Janata Dal (U), with whom the BJP is in alliance in Bihar objected to LJP leader Chirag Paswan being invited for the customary meet of the NDA that takes place at the beginning of Parliament session. “After the pandemic, a new world order is about to take shape, and India has a big role to play in the emerging new world order. This decade is a very important one, just like the decade after the second world war. Unlike earlier, we are not going to be mute spectators. We will rise to the occasion based on our traditions and ideals of Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam (the world is one family),” Mr. Modi said at the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-should-rise-to-challenges-says-pm/article33707121.ece
31 January 2021||Mumbai,||Reject Stan Swamy’s bail plea, says NIA||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Saturday alleged that Father Stan Swamy, accused in the Bhima Koregaon violence case, was actually accomplishing the agenda of Communist Party of India (Maoist) under the pretence of voicing concerns of the tribal community. It said that his bail plea must be rejected. Fr. Swamy, 83, currently at Taloja Central Jail, was arrested from Ranchi on October 9, 2020 and was sent to judicial custody. He is charged under several sections of the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA). Special public prosecutor Prakash Shetty, appearing for the central agency, argued that during the investigation it was established that Fr. Swamy was a staunch supporter of the activities of organisations such as Visthapan Virodhi Jan Vikas Andolan and People’s Union for Civil Liberties, which were “working as frontal organisations of CPI (Maoist)”. Arguing for the fourth day in a row, Mr. Shetty said Fr. Swamy had tried to dispose of evidence by deleting files showing his involvement in activities of the CPI (Maoist) and that the NIA had recovered those files. The act of deleting the files showed his intention was to try to escape justice, Mr. Shetty charged. He also contended that, “Under the pretence of voicing the concerns of the tribal community, the accused is actually accomplishing the agenda of CPI (Maoist). The ghastly truth is that in the name of social causes, Fr. Swamy and the co-accused are actually working to achieve goals of the CPI (Maoist).” Mr. Shetty said the bail plea must be rejected because NIA has found that a large amount of money was received by Fr. Swamy and was also disbursed. So the agency needed to investigate the same. Fr. Swamy is seeking bail on the grounds that the prosecution has failed to establish how he has taken part or committed or incited the commission of any unlawful activity. Hence, Section 13 (punishment for unlawful activities) of UAPA cannot be applied. The prosecution has not brought anything on record to suggest that Fr. Swamy was involved in any kind of terrorist act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/reject-stan-swamys-bail-plea-says-nia/article33707141.ece
31 January 2021||Guwahati,||Congress-led alliance targets 100 seats in Assam election||After the BJP, the Congress is looking at a win in at least 100 seats in the coming Assembly elections in Assam. Elections to the 126-member House is expected to be over by May. “We had initially set our sights on 80 seats. But after forming a grand alliance, we are confident of winning at least 100,” State Congress president Ripun Bora said. The Congress had cobbled up an alliance with the All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) led by perfume baron and MP Badruddin Ajmal, the regional Anchalik Gana Morcha and three Left parties – the Communist Party of India, the CPI (Marxist) and CPI (Marxist-Leninist) – more than a week ago. “We will definitely win more than the number the BJP thinks it can win,” Lok Sabha member Gaurav Gogoi said. The BJP in 2020 launched ‘Mission 100+’, eyeing at least 16 seats more than ‘Mission 84’ that it had planned for its three-party alliance ahead of the 2016 polls. The BJP is expected to replace one of its regional allies, the Bodoland People’s Front, with the United People’s Party Liberal. There is no such plan for the other ally, the Asom Gana Parishad. State Finance and Health Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said the Congress was being overconfident. “They will win a century of seats only in Bangladesh,” he said at a party event in western Assam’s Chirang on January 29. The mention of Bangladesh is seen as a barb aimed at the Congress for partnering with the AIUDF, a party that has won mostly in the Bengal-origin Muslim belts of Assam since its first Assembly elections in 2006. An internal survey of the Congress, meanwhile, has projected a fairly grim picture for the party across 43 Assembly seats in eastern Assam. The survey said the party could win at most 19 of the 43 seats. The factors included the alliance with the AIUDF, viewed by indigenous communities as a party catering primarily to immigrants, the erosion of votes in the tea-growing areas where plantation workers form the bulk of voters and a “change in the political scenario” after the birth of two new regional parties.   We will definitely win more than the number the BJP thinks it can win Gaurav Gogoi Lok Sabha MP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/congress-led-alliance-targets-100-seats-in-assam-election/article33707145.ece
31 January 2021||Bengaluru,||Garden city is home to 179 species of butterflies||For a city that often attracts lamentations of a fading ‘garden city’ tag, Bengaluru and its surroundings boast of a butterfly diversity that will surprise its residents. In a book that is deemed as the first such dedicated to the city’s winged visitors, the authors have revealed that Bengaluru and its surroundings recorded no less than 179 species of butterfly.  Butterflies of Bengaluru by Krushnamegh Kunte and Nitin Ravikanthachari is an initiative by the Karnataka Forest Department (Research Wing), National Centre for Biological Sciences (NCBS), and Indian Foundation for Butterflies, Bengaluru. Terming Bengaluru as an important transition zone due to its location — north of the hill ranges that connect the Western Ghats with the Eastern Ghats — the book identifies the city as one that supports “considerable” diversity of butterflies as a result of the myriad habitats it is composed of. Apart from offering a pictorial guide to all species of butterflies that are found in Bengaluru, it provides information on habitats, seasonal occurrence, and prominent places where the species are found. There is also a checklist of the plants that butterfly caterpillars feed on, and a list of flowering plants that attract butterflies. Prof. Kunte, associate professor at NCBS and chief editor of the Butterflies of India website, told The Hindu this is the first such book, as what was attempted earlier was a brochure for quick reference. Species spotted According to the authors, as habitats change corresponding to the climate and green cover, as well as with an increasing number of butterfly watchers, the list of butterflies in the city has been expanding at the pace of one to three new species every year since the last few years. Of the 179 species recorded, there were some spectacularly rare ones, such as the Lilac Silverline (Apharitis lilacinus), which, Prof. Kunte said, was seen in India after nearly 100 years. Two species that were recorded in Bengaluru for the first time in 2020 were the Orange-tailed Awl (Bibasis sena) and the Alida Angle (Caprona alida). Does the changing ecosystem of the city have an impact? It is logical that there will be an impact, said Prof. Kunte, offering the 2020 lockdown as an example when the traffic went down tremendously, having a positive influence on the ecosystem in general. Elaborating further, he said from the nine-year data, it can be deduced that the movement of butterflies is tightly linked to monsoon. “Butterfly and birds migration is driven by cold winters. India is unique, especially peninsular India, as it is driven by the Indian monsoon,” he said. Hotspots According to the book, which covered a 60-km radius from the Bengaluru GPO, among the butterfly hotspots in the region are the Doresanipalya Forest Research station, Bangalore University, Valley School, IISc. campus, GKVK campus, Lalbagh Botanical Garden, Hesaraghatta, Savandurga State Forest, Camp GeeDee (near the Bannerghatta National Park), Makalidurga, Nandi Hills and Horagina Betta, and Devarayanadurga. “Bengaluru definitely has more than other tropical cities, and the Karnataka Forest Department is also doing a wonderful job. The Bengaluru Butterfly Club is seeing growing membership with a wide ranging profile from 10-year-olds to retired officials. One way people can start contributing is by reporting to the website with information,” he said, adding that this will help make recommendations on plants that are butterfly-friendly to be planted by the authorities concerned, as well as citizens. The book is available for Rs. 550. For further information, contact Indian Foundation for Butterflies on 6362512292.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/garden-city-is-home-to-179-species-of-butterflies/article33707100.ece
31 January 2021||KALPETTA,||Mushrooming resorts threaten the calm in Wayanad||Mushrooming private resorts and homestays on the forest fringes in Wayanad in Kerala not only flout government rules, they also threaten the tranquillity of highly vulnerable tribal communities inside the forest. Residents of the Chookalikkuni Kattunayakka hamlet and Kumizhy Paniya hamlet inside the Wayanad Wildlife Sanctuary complained that the increasing number of resorts and homestays inside the hamlets were posing a threat to the tribal people and wildlife in the area. Chandrika of Chookalikkuni said both the hamlets were surrounded by forests and as many as 130 families, including 110 tribal families and 20 families of Wayanadan Chetty families, lived there. “As many as 13 private resorts, including a resort owned by a former Deputy Superintendent of Police, are functioning in the hamlet, flouting all norms. They are functioning even without obtaining licences from the gram panchayat authorities,” Ms. Chandrika said. Complaints ignored “Though we had submitted grievances against the resorts to the departments concerned, they were yet to take any steps to stop it,” Sheeba of the Kumizhi tribal settlement said. As per the Forest Rights Act, a road connecting the hamlets with outer world was permitted only for the use of residents. But resort owners are misusing it for private purposes, N. Badusha, president, Wayanad Prakriti Samrakshana Samiti, said. Often the tourists provoke elephants and spotted deer in the adjacent forest for taking photographs, he said. With tourists walking into tribal villages at all times, holding late night parties and camp fires, unrestricted consumption of alcohol which also finds its way to the tribal people, apart from diesel generators that function round-the-clock pose threats to the life of the forest dwellers and the wildlife. Fishy story A few years ago, a tribal woman, who was working in a private resort, was found dead under mysterious circumstances. Though her husband had complained to the police, they were yet to take any action, Ms. Sheeba said. “We have submitted separate grievances to the District Collector, District Police Chief, ITDP [Integrated Tribal Development Programme] officer, and warden of the sanctuary to address the issues,” Mr. Badusha said. If the authorities failed to adopt positive steps, the residents would launch indefinite agitations, they warned. But the sanctuary authorities said it was the onus of the district administration to take steps against the resort owners, as the resorts were mostly on revenue land though inside the sanctuary. And, if the traffic movement on the road was blocked, the residents also would be affected.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mushrooming-resorts-threaten-the-calm-in-wayanad/article33707166.ece
31 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||CJI writes to govt. on HC judge’s appointment||Chief Justice of India (CJI) Sharad A. Bobde wrote to the government withdrawing the Supreme Court Collegium’s recommendation to appoint Justice P.V. Ganediwala, an Additional Judge of the Bombay High Court, as Permanent Judge, following her controversial decisions in two sexual assault cases. The file on Justice Ganediwala will now be placed before the Collegium for a decision on her tenure as Additional Judge. Controversial judgments Justice Ganediwala’s judgments had raised objections within the judiciary itself, a source said. The Collegium had recommended her appointment as Permanent Judge only on January 20. On January 27, a Bench led by Chief Justice Bobde stayed one of the two judgments, which said that groping a minor over her clothes does not amount to sexual assault under the POCSO Act. The stay came on an urgent oral mentioning made by Attorney General K.K. Venugopal, who said the judgment would set a dangerous precedent and cripple the very intention of the POCSO law to protect children from sexual offenders. The second judgment by Justice Ganediwala concluded that holding hands with a five-year-old girl and unzipping the trousers did not amount to “sexual assault” under the POCSO Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cji-writes-to-govt-on-hc-judges-appointment/article33707128.ece
31 January 2021||January 31 2021 00:00 IST,||New COVID-19 vaccine likely by June, says SII||Mr. Poonawalla said SII’s partnership with Novavax, a vaccine undergoing trials for effectiveness against the novel coronavirus, has published “excellent efficacy results”. “We have also applied to start trials in India. Hope to launch #COVOVAX by June 2021!” he tweeted. Novavax’s vaccine contains a full-length, prefusion spike protein made using their recombinant nanoparticle technology and the company’s proprietary saponin-based Matrix-M adjuvant. It is stable at 2 degrees Celsius to 8 degrees Celsius (refrigerated) and is shipped in a ready-to-use liquid formulation. Apart from Covovax, four more vaccines are in the pipeline for India.  (With inputs from ANI)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/new-covid-19-vaccine-likely-by-june-says-sii/article33707164.ece
31 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Kerala journalists move SC for Kappan’s bail||The Kerala Union of Working Journalists (KUWJ) on Saturday moved the Supreme Court for grant of interim bail to its secretary, Sidhique Kappan, who is charged under the draconian Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and detained in a Uttar Pradesh jail. In its plea, the journalists’ union said the health of Mr. Kappan’s 90-year-old mother in Kerala has deteriorated. She was in hospital in a very critical condition. The union urged the top court to grant Mr. Kappan bail for five days to visit his mother. Recently, a Bench led by Chief Justice of India Sharad A. Bobde had not objected to Mr. Kappan meeting his mother on video call. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta had assured the court that arrangements would be made. The union said the jail authorities had arranged a 10-minute video call for Kappan with his mother on January 28. But, the application said, Mr. Kappan’s mother did not respond or look at the screen during the video call. The union said, earlier, before she lost consciousness, she had asked to see her son as a “last wish”. Mr. Kappan was arrested in October last year. He was detained while travelling with some others to Hathras district in U.P. where a Dalit girl had been gangraped and murdered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kerala-journalists-move-sc-for-kappans-bail/article33707101.ece
31 January 2021||January 31 2021 00:00 IST,||Ready to resume talks, say farmers||“The government says it wants a dialogue, but it is trying to weaken the farmers in so many ways, cutting off our communications, our water and power, setting up local people against us. We have to deal with that first,” Ms Kurugunti said adding that union leaders have not had meetings about resumption of talks because they have been preoccupied with these urgent matters. “We have never closed the door on talks. We have come all the way to Delhi in order to talk to the government,” she said. Punjab leader Jagmohan Singh, who heads one of the largest factions of the Bharatiya Kisan Union, said the unions are interested in resuming negotiations if the Centre is open to their demands. “Our doors are open 24 hours. If the government proposals are positive, we are ready to talk. My assessment is that the government will retreat, but no one has approached us yet,” he said. Krantikari Kisan Union president Darshan Pal, who has been a key player in the talks with the government, as well as in linking the Punjab unions to the national movement, said the renewed mobilisation of protesters from several States would strengthen the unions’ position. “Over the last two days, new people are coming in to all the borders. It is a response to Tikait’s appeal, as well as to the oppression that our people are facing. So now the government may be feeling the pressure,” he said. “Within a day or two, when there are more people, then we will be in a better position, and it will be more effective to resume talks. We will think of sending a proposal then,” he added. He also warned of serious consequences if the police stand by when locals attack protesters. “The BJP and RSS are inciting the local people, who are attacking peaceful farmers. If the police don’t take action, we will have to take steps to defend ourselves. Then farmers will be forced to respond in the same language,” he said. The unions observed a day of fasting on Saturday, which was Mahatma Gandhi’s death anniversary. “The purpose was to restore goodwill, similar to the Sadbhavana (goodwill) Yatra we undertook after Republic Day,” said Darshan Pal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ready-to-resume-talks-say-farmers/article33707102.ece
31 January 2021||January 31 2021 00:00 IST,||MHA yet to receive U.P. conversion ordinance||The controversial ordinance — the Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance, 2020, — was promulgated in November and so far more than 90 people, most of them Muslims, have been booked. The law makes religious conversion a non-bailable offence, inviting penalties of up to 10 years in prison if found to be effected for marriage or through alleged fraudulent means. According to the ordinance, in case of conversion done by a woman for the sole purpose of marriage, the marriage would be declared null and void. According to procedures, the Ordinance will have to be ratified within six weeks of the commencement of the U.P. Assembly, as and when it is convened.  The Hindu had filed two RTI enquiries to know the status of the recently promulgated U.P. ordinance and the similar Rajasthan Dharm Swatantraya Bill 2008. To a question on whether the U.P. Governor had sent a copy of the U.P. Ordinance to the MHA and if the Ministry had examined it, the MHA replied, “It is informed that Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance, 2020 has not been received in our office, hence no information can be provided.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mha-yet-to-receive-up-conversion-ordinance/article33707103.ece
31 January 2021||January 31 2021 00:00 IST,||Proposal to stay farm laws stands, says PM||Political leaders, however, have insisted on a separate discussion on farmers issues, especially the three laws. In a meeting held by Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla on Friday, the same demand was kept but leaders were told that they could raise these issues during the debate on the Motion of thanks to the President for his address to both Houses of Parliament set to be initiated after the Budget is tabled. On Friday, in separate press conferences, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and Shiromani Akali Dal leader Sukhbir Singh Badal extended support to the agitation by farmers and Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait. Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Sharad Pawar tweeted that his party had raised the issue of farmers and discussed the women’s reservation Bill as well. “New laws will adversely impact the Minimum Support Price (MSP) procurement infrastructure thereby weakening the Mandi system. MSP mechanism has to be ensured and strengthened further,” he tweeted after the meeting. Frequent disruptions The Prime Minister also pointed out that frequent disruptions of the House were detrimental to smaller parties, which got very limited time to speak in Parliament. He appealed to the larger parties to help run the House. As per sources, four days have been allotted to debate the Motion of thanks to the President for his address, 26 news Bills are to be introduced, including six related to Finance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/proposal-to-stay-farm-laws-stands-says-pm/article33707113.ece
31 January 2021||TIRUCHI,||Rahul Gandhi joins chefs of YouTube channel for cookout session||Chefs of the ‘Village Cooking Channel’ (VCC), a popular YouTube venture run by a group of farmers from Chinna Veeramangalam in Pudukottai district, were in for a surprise when they were invited to share a cookout session with Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, during his recent election campaign visit to Karur district. “We were very excited to know that Mr. Gandhi was interested in meeting us; he had even watched some of our videos,” said V. Subramanian, who runs VCC along with his cousins V. Murugesan, V. Ayyanar, G. Tamilselvan and T. Muthumanickam, led by their grandfather and former mass caterer M. Periyathambi. The VCC team arrived in Karur a day before to shoot their episode (as is the norm in their videos) in the verdant surroundings of a moringa plantation near Aravakurichi. “The original plan was for Rahul anna [elder brother] to join us from the beginning to cook mushroom biryani, but he got delayed due to his hectic schedule. However, he joined us to make raita . It was heart-warming to see how easily Rahul anna mingled with us,” Mr. Subramanian told The Hindu . In the video, presented in the usual boisterous style with the chefs announcing the ingredients as they added them into the pot, Mr. Gandhi is seen following suit and expanding his Tamil vocabulary by adding vengayam (onion), thayir (yoghurt) and kallu uppu (rock salt) to a vessel. “I like to cook too,” he tells the chefs, joshing them as they pose for photos. Mr. Gandhi was accompanied by S. Jothimani, Congress MP from Karur, who also helped him with the translation. “I was inspired by the stories of the people behind VCC, and was happy to see how they were helping others with the income from their online venture. Mr. Gandhi was already familiar with their work on YouTube, so it was a nice way for us to meet up,” said Ms. Jothimani. The Gandhi scion spent over an hour-and-a-half with the VCC team and sampled the biryani with raita at the end, seated on palm frond mats on the field. Offering to rope in Chicago-based Sam Pitroda (who was an advisor to former Prime Ministers Rajiv Gandhi and Manmohan Singh) to help VCC stage their show in the United States, he also suggested that the group travel more within the country. As is the channel’s practice, the dish was served to residents of an old age home near Karur at the end of the session. Mr. Gandhi signed off with his verdict on the mushroom biryani — Romba nalla irukku (It’s very good).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rahul-joins-chefs-of-youtube-channel-for-a-cookout-session/article33707215.ece
31 January 2021||Srinagar,||Two Hizb militants ‘motivated’ to surrender||Two Hizb-ul-Mujahideen militants were “motivated” to surrender during a raging encounter in south Kashmir’s Pulwama, as part of a new strategy adopted by the security forces towards local militants. The militants were encircled by a joint team of the security forces, including the Army and the police, on Friday in Lelhar village of Pulwama. The militants initially engaged the search party in a gunfight, which left one of them injured. “Due to repeated surrender appeals, which lasted for seven hours, both the terrorists surrendered and laid down their arms,” the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/two-hizb-militants-motivated-to-surrender/article33707125.ece
31 January 2021||LUCKNOW,||Trucker who threatened U.P. CM is granted bail||A truck driver jailed for allegedly threatening to kill Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath was granted bail by the Allahabad High Court, which took into consideration the accused person’s apology and expression of “respect and esteem” towards the Chief Minister. The accused, Amar Pal Yadav, has been in jail since September 25, 2020. An FIR was lodged against him on charges of sedition and criminal intimidation and Section 67 of the Information Technology Act, at the Hazratganj police station here. The accused allegedly sent a WhatsApp text to UP-112 (dial emergency police services) making indecent comments against the Chief Minister and threatened to kill him if jailed MLA Mukhtar Ansari was not released within 24 hours.  WhatsApp message The counsel for the accused submitted that he had nothing to do with Mukhtar Ansari or any other criminal. The accused claimed that while he was eating at a dhaba, some person took his mobile on the pretext of making a call but sent the said WhatsApp message from his phone without his knowledge. In an affidavit submitted by the accused from jail, he stated that he did not send any SMS, was a law-abiding citizen and held the Chief Minister in high esteem. He would always abide by the law and regretted that such a message had been sent from his mobile. Considering that the accused “in unequivocal terms has apologised for his phone being misused and, showed his respect and esteem to the Chief Minister, I find it to be a fit case for grant of bail,” said Justice Dinesh Kumar Singh in an order dated January 27.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/trucker-who-threatened-up-cm-is-granted-bail/article33707130.ece
31 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Active caseload drops to less than 1.7 lakh||The country’s total active COVID-19 caseload dropped to less than 1.7 lakh (1,69,824) on Saturday. It comprises 1.58% of India’s total positive cases. Nine States/UTs (Union Territories) had a higher weekly positivity rate than the national average. Kerala recorded the highest, with 12.20%; followed by Chhattisgarh (7.30%), Goa (4.40%), Maharashtra (4.30 %) and Chandigarh (2.50%), a release issued by the Union Health Ministry said. Twenty-seven States/UTs had a weekly positivity rate less than the national average. “India’s recovery rate has reached nearly 97% (96.98%) and is among the highest globally, with more than 1.04 crore people having recovered so far. Also 14,808 patients have recovered and got discharged in the last 24 hours,’’ the release stated. As per the data, Kerala reported the maximum number of single-day recoveries (6,398) in the past 24 hours, followed by Maharashtra (2,613) and Karnataka (607). Daily new cases Kerala continued to report the highest daily new cases at 6,268, followed by Maharashtra with 2,771, while Tamil Nadu reported 509 new cases. 81.95% of the new cases reported are from six States and UTs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/active-caseload-drops-to-less-than-17-lakh/article33707144.ece
31 January 2021||JAIPUR,||Rajasthan seeks GST compensation extension||Rajasthan has sought extension of the Goods and Services Tax (GST) compensation payable to the States by five more years, from June 2022 to June 2027, after its calculation on the basis of the total revenue deficit. The State has also called for extension of the additional borrowing limit till the next financial year in view of the economic situation arising out of the COVID-19 pandemic. Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot has shot off a letter to PM Narendra Modi in this connection ahead of the presentation of the Union Budget on February 1. Mr. Gehlot said though the economic activities had resumed after the lockdown, they were “far from reaching the normal levels”. Mr. Gehlot said Rajasthan had availed additional borrowing to the tune of 2% of the Gross State Domestic Product in the current financial year. A similar provision of 2% additional borrowing should be allowed in the next financial year as well to enable the State government to take care of the committed liabilities, he said. The Chief Minister pointed out that the negative impact of the pandemic on the economy would cause continued stunted growth. As a result, the expected growth in GSDP would not be achieved and the revenue streams of the State would not reach the desired levels, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rajasthan-seeks-gst-compensation-extension/article33707348.ece
31 January 2021||January 31 2021 00:00 IST,||Civic staff caught trying to dump elders on highway||Acting swiftly, Madhya Pradesh Urban Administration Minister Bhupendra Singh dismissed the two employees. However, according to reports, the IMC defended its employees, maintaining that they were actually helping the people. IMC Additional Commissioner Abhay Rajangaonkar claimed that the municipal employees were moving the homeless people to a night shelter. He denied allegations that they had been dropped off on the outskirts of the city. Congress launched a scathing attack on the BJP government. “In the name of cleanliness, officials of the Indore Municipal Corporation left the elderly in the cold. What can the poor officials do... they are working according to the ideology of the BJP, which has left out many elderly leaders... like Advani ji , Joshi ji , Yashwant Sinha,” its spokesperson Narendra Saluja said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/civic-staff-caught-trying-to-dump-elders-on-highway/article33707114.ece
31 January 2021||Patna,||Bihar Oppn. organises human chain||The Opposition mahagathbandhan in Bihar organised a human chain across State on Saturday against the new farm laws and to express support for the protesting farmers in Delhi. Leaders of all three Left parties, RJD and Congress participated in the human chain at designated places for about 30 minutes at 12.30 p.m. Many leaders, though present, did not join the chain as they wanted to maintain social distancing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bihar-oppn-organises-human-chain/article33707345.ece
31 January 2021||AHMEDABAD,||Gujarat polls: norms issued on campaign||The Gujarat State Election Commission has issued guidelines for campaigning for local municipal corporation, municipality, district and taluka panchayat elections to be held in two phases in February. According to the guidelines for local self-governance and panchayati raj institutions’ elections, only five persons should conduct door-to-door campaigning while social distancing norms must be followed during rallies and meetings. The parties must adhere to COVID-19 measures like masks and arrange sanitisers for crowds. The Commission has made it mandatory for the parties to seek prior permission of nodal officers for organising a rally or meeting. It has also announced model code of conduct. The BJP and the Congress are set to announce candidates next week. There are 48 wards in Ahmedabad city and each ward has four councillors. The ruling BJP has dominated all municipal corporations since 2005.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/gujarat-polls-norms-issued-on-campaign/article33707139.ece
31 January 2021||KAKINADA,||Mystery shrouds death of race oxen||Two pairs of oxen that bagged many prizes in State and district level competitions were found dead under mysterious circumstances at a dairy unit in Samarlakota town in East Godavari district on Saturday. One of the pair had bagged the prize in the race held at Kaikaluru in Krishna district on Friday. The two pairs of oxen were brought back to the farm on Friday night. In a complaint to the police, dairy farmer Valloori Satyendra Kumar said the two pairs of oxen were found dead on Saturday morning under mysterious conditions. The approximate cost of the two pairs of race oxen is around Rs. 35 lakh. The Samarlakota police have registered a case and have launched an investigation into the deaths.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mystery-shrouds-death-of-two-pairs-of-oxen/article33707110.ece
31 January 2021||January 31 2021 00:00 IST,||Looking up to Bapu||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/looking-up-to-bapu/article33707116.ece
31 January 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Maoists kill two villagers in Odisha||Suspected CPI (Maoist) cadres killed two persons accusing them of being police informers in Odisha’s Kandhamal district. Bodies of two villagers from Bhandarangi and Guchhaguda villages were found at different places on Saturday. According to the police, the left-wing extremists killed them after calling them out from their house on Friday. According to a handwritten note left behind by the CPI (Maoist) cadres, the two were among those who had tipped off security forces about the presence of extremists in Belghar area of Kandhamal. In September 2020, five LWEs were killed in an encounter at Sikri village in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/maoists-kill-two-villagers-in-odisha/article33707118.ece
31 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Pulse polio programme launched||President Ram Nath Kovind launched the pulse polio programme for 2021 on Saturday by administering polio drops to children less than five years of age at the Rashtrapati Bhavan. The President and First Lady Savita Kovind administered polio drops to children on the eve of the Polio National Immunization Day, which is observed on January 31, 2021. Around 17 crore children of less than five years of age will be given polio drops as part of the drive of the government to sustain polio-free status of the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pulse-polio-programme-launched/article33707119.ece
31 January 2021||Kolkata,||5 Trinamool leaders meet Shah, join BJP||Five leaders of Trinamool Congress, including three MLAs, on Saturday left for New Delhi and met Union Home Minister Amit Shah at his residence and joined the Bharatiya Janata Party. The list includes Rajib Banerjee, former Forest Minister; Vaishali Dalmiya, MLA from Bally; and, Prabir Kumar Ghosal, MLA from Uttarpara. While Mr. Banerjee has resigned as an MLA and from the State’s Cabinet the Trinamool Congress has suspended Vaishali Dalmiya. The other two leaders are Rathin Chakraborty, former Mayor of Howrah Municipal Corporation; and Parthasarathi Chattopadhyay, former MLA from Ranaghat Paschim. All these leaders were taken to Delhi in a special aircraft during the day. Photographs and video of the five TMC leaders meeting Mr. Shah at his residence was made public at the party. The Home Minister handed the BJP symbol to the TMC leaders. The defecting TMC leaders were accompanied BJP vice president Mukul Roy and national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya. All these leaders were publicly voicing discontent against the Trinamool Congress and were to join the BJP during Union Home Minister visit to State. The visit was rescheduled at the eleventh hour because of a low intensity explosion near Israeli Embassy in New Delhi on Friday. This is the second biggest defection, which the Trinamool Congress leadership has to grapple in the past two months. Last year, on December 19, former minister Suvendu Adhikari joined the BJP along with half a dozen of MLAs of the ruling party. “Today all of us we have accepted the membership of BJP from the Home Minister,” Mr. Banerjee told journalists after meeting Mr. Shah and joining the party. Mr. Banerjee said that he had raised issues concerning West Bengal like law and order, unemployment and also special package for the State. RudranilGhosh, a well-known Bengali actor also joined the BJP with the TMC leaders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/trinamool-leaders-meet-shah-join-bjp/article33707122.ece
31 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Journalists protest cases||Journalists on Saturday gathered for a public meeting organised by the Editors Guild of India and Press Club of India in protest against sedition and other criminal charges pressed against some senior scribes. Journalist T.N. Ninan said, “While there is no censorship, the intent is similar - to harass and intimidate the media. We can and should debate the rights and wrongs of our reportage. But is any of this sedition? There is a larger purpose at work. That is why this must be fought by raising our voice”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/journalists-protest-cases/article33707129.ece
31 January 2021||Washington/New Delhi,||Gandhi statue vandalised in California||Miscreants have vandalised, broken and ripped from the base a statue of Mahatma Gandhi in a park in California, evoking a strong response from India which sought a thorough investigation and appropriate action against those responsible for the “despicable act”. The 6-ft tall, 294 kg bronze statue, in the Central Park of the City of Davis in Northern California, appeared to have been sawed off at the ankles and half its face was severed and missing, local daily Davis Enterprise reported. The vandalised statue was found by a park employee in the early hours of January 27, the police said. The statue is being removed and will be stored in a safe place until it can be evaluated, said Davis City councilman Lucas Frerichs.  India condemns act In New Delhi, the Ministry of External Affairs said the Department of State has conveyed that the act is unacceptable and expressed the hope that the perpetrators will be brought to justice as quickly as possible. “The government of India strongly condemns this malicious and despicable act against a universally respected icon of peace and justice,” the Ministry said in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/gandhi-statue-vandalised-in-california/article33707132.ece
31 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||States told to boost vaccine coverage||Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan on Saturday reviewed the status of COVID-19 vaccination with officials of States/UTs through a video conference. He said while some States and UTs have more than 50% coverage, “all are advised to improve the percentage coverage of vaccinated beneficiaries as there are many States and UTs that need to improve their performance on this parameter”. The Health Secretary pointed that the vaccine is available in sufficient quantities and technical glitches on CoWIN have now been resolved. “The States/UTs have been advised to ensure that regular review meetings of the State, district and block task force are held to assess the emerging challenges, understand the ground issues and promptly address them,” said the Ministry. It said the State Health Secretaries have also been asked to analyse the daily variation in the number of average vaccinations and take steps to increase them. Data released by the Ministry said the cumulative number of healthcare workers vaccinated stands at 37,06,157 as per the provisional report. While 68,830 sessions have been held so far, 5,143 sessions were held till 7 p.m. on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/states-told-to-boost-vaccine-coverage/article33707167.ece
31 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Applications invited for BlockChain courses||Applications have been invited for the BlockChain and Full Stack Development courses offered by the ICT Academy and the Kerala BlockChain Academy in association with the Kerala State Development Innovation Strategic Council. Students can apply for the courses online onabcd.kdisc.kerala.gov.intill February 6. Admission will be based on an entrance test scheduled to be held on February 10. Engineering and Science graduates, three-year diploma holders, and working professionals can apply for the courses. For details, contact 0471 2700813, 8078102119||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/applications-invited-for-blockchain-courses/article33707516.ece
31 January 2021||Hyderabad,||Four more held in loan app case||Continuing their probe into financial irregularities by app-based instant loan companies, Hyderabad Cyber Crime police arrested four more persons from Bengaluru. The accused are Niranjan Umapathy, director of WaterElephant Financial Services Pvt Ltd.. and Beadwallet Technologies Pvt. Ltd., Yeshi Gyatso, director of Beadwallet, Nyichak Dhondup and Usha BM of WaterElephant. They operated at least 19 instant loan apps. Yeshi Gyatso and Nyichak Dhondup are Tibetan refugees. Further probe into the case unearthed the involvement of two fugitive Chinese nationals Cheen Wu, CEO and Andy Lu Wenjie, said Joint Commissioner of Police (Detective Department) Avinash Mohanty. He said that the accused operated apps, including Flash Rupee, Raytheon Loan, Elephant Loan, Smile Loan, Vulcan Loan, Shubh Cash and Apna Loan. Explaining the modus operandi, Mr. Mohanty said that the accused started a call centre at Hustle Hub Building, Koramangala in Bengaluru, and harassed borrowers by making calls from virtual apps, apart from the regular mobile numbers, for repayment of loan amount. The two firms nearly had 200 telecallers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/four-more-held-in-loan-app-case/article33707109.ece
31 January 2021||Pithoragarh,||3 women killed: Fear-stricken villagers in Uttarakhand’s Pithoragarh demand killing of leopard||The residents of the Devalthal area in this Uttarakhand district, where three women were killed in quick succession by a leopard recently, held a demonstration on Saturday demanding that the Forest department hunt down the big cat. “We are demanding the killing of the leopard and a government job for one of the three children of the woman, who became the third victim of the big cat three days ago,” said Jagdish Kumar, who led the demonstration in Ramkot village. The villagers said panic is mounting among them as the leopard is often spotted in the area.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/3-women-killed-fear-stricken-villagers-in-uttarakhands-pithoragarh-demand-killing-of-leopard/article33707131.ece
31 January 2021||Bhubaneswar,||Send ASI team to study “Ekamra Kshetra”: Pradhan urges Centre||Union Petroleum and Natural Gas Minister Dharmendra Pradhan on Saturday urged the Centre to send an expert ASI team to carry out a detailed study and a scientific excavation exercise at the “Ekamra Kshetra” here to unearth ancient structures. He wrote to the Union Minister of State for Culture and Tourism Prahlad Singh Patel seeking his intervention to protect old Odisha architecture, two days after the ASI unearthed a stone structure during the excavation work under the development project in the old town of Bhubaneswar.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/send-asi-team-to-study-ekamra-kshetra-pradhan-urges-centre/article33707134.ece
31 January 2021||New Delhi,||Businessman arrested in AgustaWestland case||The Enforcement Directorate has arrested a businessman, Anoop Gupta, in connection with the AgustaWestland case. The accused was produced before a special court that sent him to five-day ED custody. The agency has said that €70 million were routed through a web of entities and Mr. Gupta was the director of an intermediary firm.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/businessman-arrested-in-agustawestland-case/article33707168.ece
31 January 2021||Bengaluru,TAMIL NADU||Sasikala to be discharged today||Expelled AIADMK leader V.K. Sasikala, who was released from jail recently but is under treatment at the Victoria hospital where she had been admitted for COVID-19, will be discharged on Sunday. Victoria Hospital Medical Superintendent Ramesh Krishna K. said she would be discharged after morning rounds by the doctors on Sunday. “She completed 10 days of treatment on Saturday and has been asymptomatic and maintaining saturation without oxygen support for three days. As per protocol, there is no need to test her before discharge and she can be discharged,” he said. According to a bulletin released by the hospital on Saturday, “The team of doctors attending to her have taken the decision that she is fit for discharge. She will be discharged on January 31 with advice of home quarantine.” After her release on January 27, Sasikala, close aide of former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa, continued to be at the hospital for treatment. She was admitted to the hospital on January 21 after she tested positive for COVID-19. Hospital authorities had said that she would be discharged on the 10th day if she is asymptomatic and free of oxygen support for at least three days. “Ms. Sasikala is asymptomatic. She is conscious and alert. Her vital parameters are stable and her blood sugar is under control. She is maintaining saturation without oxygen and is walking with support. She is being continuously monitored,” the hospital’s bulletin released on Saturday said. She was admitted to Bowring and Lady Curzon Hospital on January 20 after she complained of breathlessness and fever. From Bowring, she was shifted to Victoria on January 21 after she was diagnosed of SARI. Subsequently, her chest CT thorax showed features suggestive of severe respiratory infection and she was tested for COVID-19 again. She tested positive the same day. She was then admitted to the COVID-19 ICU at the Emergency and Trauma Care Centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sasikala-to-be-discharged-from-bengaluru-hospital-today/article33707276.ece
31 January 2021||C. JaisankarTIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Trial run of revived pumping station on||Tiruchi Corporation has begun trial run of the revived pumping station of the erstwhile Golden Rock Drinking Water Supply Scheme, which was in disuse in the recent years, to supply water to the five added wards. The pumping station located on the riverbed of the Cauvery near Kambarasampettai, which served residents of Golden Rock municipality for several years before it was merged with Tiruchi Corporation, has been in disuse over the past few years. It had a capacity to pump 27 million litres of water a day (MLD). At present, the Corporation supplies water from the headworks on the riverbeds of the Cauvery and the Kollidam. They have a combined capacity of drawing 130 MLD. It gets 55 MLD from the Cauvery and 75 MLD from the Kollidam. Since the present capacity is said to be sufficient to meet the demand of the people, the civic body hardly uses the capacity of the Golden Rock Water scheme. However, the delay in construction of a pumping station on the Cauvery riverbed near Melur for a new water scheme meant for wards 61 to 65 in Kattur and Tiruverumbur has forced the civic body to revive the pumping station of the Golden Rock Water scheme to supply water until the completion of the pumping station. To test the efficacy of the scheme and to identify problem areas, the civic body has started the trial run. A Corporation official told The Hindu that it had been decided to use at least 12 to 13 MLD from the scheme for supply to the added areas. It was sufficient to meet the minimum water requirement of the people in these areas. The trial run, which faced glitches due to shortage of labourers during the recent lockdown, had picked up momentum, he said. A team of engineers had been studying the problem areas. It had been found that pipes laid in lanes and bylanes had suffered damage at a few locations when the ground was dug for the underground drainage works. Repair works and replacement of pipelines would be carried out wherever it was required. It would be completed within two months. Once it was over, water would be supplied to the added areas until the completion of the headworks at Melur, the official said.  At least 12 to 13 MLD will be used for supply to areas added to the corporation Official||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/trial-run-of-revived-pumping-station-on/article33707381.ece
31 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||12.5 tonnes of tobacco seized near Muttukadu||In a major operation, the police on Saturday seized 12.5 tonnes of banned chewable tobacco products which were brought in containers and goods carrier vehicles. The police have been cracking down on shops selling banned tobacco products in several parts of the city. A special team in Adyar received information that one Senthil, from Tirunelveli, was transporting a large consignment through Muttukadu and distributing the contraband to shops on Rajiv Gandhi Road and East Coast Road. Following this, the team intercepted a container lorry near the Muttukadu checkpost but the vehicle sped away without stopping. They gave chase and apprehended driver Patturaj, 27, of Tirunelveli. He told them that three more vehicles with tobacco products were following him. On his information, the police caught another container and three goods vehicles at the same place within a few hours. Personnel from the Kanathur police station arrested Patturaj, Muthukumar, 25, and Selvaraj, 47, of Tirunelveli; Raja, 24, of Tambaram; and Amjath, 42, of Pallavaram. They seized five goods carriers, including two containers full of tobacco products. The police said the contraband weighed 12.5 tonnes and was worth Rs. 1 crore. A manhunt has been launched for the prime accused Senthil.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/125-tonnes-of-tobacco-seized-near-muttukadu/article33707255.ece
31 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Opinion divided on Governor’s options in releasing Rajiv case convicts||Opinion is still divided on the options available to Governor Banwarilal Purohit while deciding on the remission of the life sentence of seven convicts in the Rajiv Gandhi assassination case. On January 22, the Supreme Court said through an altered order that Mr. Purohit would consider, within a week, a plea for pardon filed by one of the convicts, A.G. Perarivalan alias Arivu. On Friday, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami called on the Governor and submitted a representation for the release of all the convicts. In September 2018, the Cabinet had recommended their premature release. According to a section of jurists, the Governor, under the given scheme of constitutional arrangement, has to abide by the advice of the Cabinet on matters such as granting pardons or suspending, remitting or commuting sentences. K. Chandru, former judge of the Madras High Court, emphasised that as per Article 163, the Governor has to act only by the advice of the Cabinet, a position which was upheld by the Madras High Court in November 1999 when it set aside the decision of the then Governor Fathima Beevi to reject the mercy petitions of four death convicts in the case without taking the Cabinet’s advice. In April 2000, on the Cabinet’s recommendation, the Governor commuted the death sentence of one of the convicts (Nalini) to life sentence. Mr. Chandru pointed out that recent developments in the Supreme Court had clarified that the Governor could take the decision in the matter. N.G.R. Prasad, senior advocate, cited the court’s ruling in the Maru Ram versus Union of India (1980), wherein it said, “The power under Articles 72 and 161 of the Constitution can be exercised by the Central and State Governments, not by the President or the Governor on their own. The advice of the appropriate Government binds the Head of the State.” He adds, “The Governor cannot come to his own conclusion, ignoring the advice of the Cabinet.” At the same time, the senior advocate pointed out that those who do not agree with the Governor’s decision on remission could always subject it to a judicial review. However, there is another school of thought. It says the Governor has recourse to other options. Fresh opinion A former Governor who served in a southern State said that the Governor could reject the Cabinet’s advice too. A senior policy-maker in the Tamil Nadu government said the Governor could still refer the matter to the Centre for a fresh opinion, though, during September 2018, the Supreme Court held in the Union of India versus V. Sriharan @ Murugan & Others that the Governor was “at liberty” to decide on Perarivalan’s application. Another senior official said it is unlikely for the Governor to act only on the petition of one convict when the Cabinet’s recommendation for the release of all the seven convicts is pending with him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/opinion-divided-on-governors-options-in-release-of-convicts/article33707291.ece
31 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Police Commissioner asks people to follow road rules||City Police Commissioner Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal on Saturday appealed to the public to extend their cooperation in following traffic rules to reduce road accidents and fatalities. Mr. Aggarwal and Additional Commissioner of Police, Traffic, N. Kannan flagged off a bike rally by traffic police personnel to create awareness on the importance of adhering to traffic rules. He also released a CD of a song on road safety and inaugurated a sand art display on the Marina Beach as the 32nd Road Safety Awareness Month is being observed in the city. Speaking at the venue, Mr. Aggarwal said the State government and the city police have been taking all efforts to reduce fatalities. “In Chennai city, the accident rate has reduced substantially. Compared to 2019, there is 50% reduction in accidents and we have saved 380 lives,” Mr. Aggarwal said. He said the life of every individual is very important to their family. Road safety awareness programme is being conducted with an aim to create more awareness on the importance of following road rules. “It is everyone’s responsibility to follow traffic rules for the safety of all. If all follow road rules, we will reduce accidents completely and can achieve a zero accident scenario. That can be achieved only if the public extend their cooperation,” said Mr. Aggarwal. The Commissioner also said Union Minister of Road Transport and Highways Nitin Gadkari recently appreciated the efforts of the Tamil Nadu police in reducing road accidents in the State, and the Supreme Court had also appreciated the force. He said all the States have been asked to follow the Tamil Nadu model to reduce fatalities and accidents.  In Chennai city, the accident rate has reduced substantially  Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal,Police Commissioner||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-commissioner-asks-people-to-follow-road-rules/article33707302.ece
31 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State records 505 infections and 5 fatalities||Tamil Nadu reported 505 new cases of COVID-19 and five deaths on Saturday, taking the State’s tally to 8,37,832 and toll to 12,350. Ariyalur, Perambalur and Ramanathapuram reported no new case. A total of 145 persons tested positive in Chennai, followed by 48 in Coimbatore and 46 in Chengalpattu. There were 23 cases in Tiruvallur, 21 in Erode and 20 each in Salem and Tiruppur. The remaining districts saw under 20 cases each. Those testing positive included two returnees from Kerala. The fresh cases took Chennai’s case tally to 2,31,148 (2,25,487 discharged, 1,563 active cases and 4,098 deaths). Of the five deceased, two persons died in Chengalpattu and one each in Chennai, Namakkal and Tirupattur. This included a 48-year-old man from Chengalpattu who had no co-morbidities. He was admitted to the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital on January 25 and died on January 28 due to COVID-19 pneumonia and respiratory failure. The number of active cases stood at 4,575. A total of 52,725 samples were tested in the last 24 hours. Another 8,417 persons were vaccinated on the 15th day of immunisation on Saturday, taking the total number of healthcare workers inoculated till date to 1,05,543. A total of 8,206 persons received Covishield and 211 Covaxin.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-records-505-infections-and-5-deaths/article33707283.ece
31 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Loan waiver not a gimmick, it is feasible, says Stalin||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Saturday rejected the allegation that his electoral promise of waiving educational, crop and jewellery loans would result in a huge debt burden. He asked why such arguments were forwarded when lakhs of crores of rupees borrowed by corporate houses had been waived. “Are the critics ready to pose the question to the Centre? Waiving loans obtained by the poor is not a freebie. It is an opportunity to light a lamp in their lives,” he said while taking part in ‘ Ungal thogidhiyil Stalin’ [Stalin in your constituency], the DMK’s Assembly poll outreach programme, in Vellore. He reiterated that free schemes were not gimmicks but were meant to ameliorate the living conditions of the people. Mr. Stalin said a separate board would be created to fulfil the demands of the people, through petitions, during his tours in the constituencies. “Camps will be set up in every constituency for inquiring into the demands. I will fulfil them 100%. The DMK government will fulfil what the AIADMK government has failed to and when we complete our task, a solution will be found for the problems of one crore people. It will make Tamils self- reliant,” he said. Alleging that Commercial Taxes Minister K.C. Veeramani from Vellore had failed to address the problems of the district, Mr. Stalin said the Minister’s indifference had forced youth from the district to move to other States in search of jobs. “The Minister is involved in land grabbing and a case was filed in the Madras High Court against him in connection with occupation of land in the centre of Vellore. There is a video implicating him in land issues,” Mr. Stalin said.  Camps will be set up in every constituency for inquiring into the demands. I will fulfil them 100% M.K. Stalin DMK president||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/loan-waiver-not-a-gimmick-it-is-feasible-says-stalin/article33707285.ece
31 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||National online memorial for COVID-19 victims goes live||A national online memorial for all those who died of COVID-19 went live on January 30, which marked one year since India’s first COVID-19 case was reported in Kerala. Addressing an online gathering during the launch of the portal, Abhijit Chowdhury of the Covid Care Network (CCN), a non-governmental organisation led by a team of doctors, said that although the website was built by CCN, it now belonged to the people. N. Ram, Director, The Hindu Group of Publications and part of the advisory panel of the initiative, said society owed this to all those who died of COVID-19. He stressed on the importance of memorialising all those who died. ‘More could have died’ Lauding Dr. Chowdhury and the team for the initiative, he said the fact that it was led by doctors gave it a lot of authority, gravitas and credentials. Highlighting that the actual number of deaths could be much higher than the 1.54 lakh reported so far, Mr. Ram stressed on the need to memorialise as many of the reported deaths as possible. He appealed to the media, NGOs and activists to play a lead role in taking the initiative to the masses. V. Mohan, chairman and chief of diabetology at Dr. Mohan’s Diabetes Specialities Centre, who is also on the advisory panel, pointed out how those who lost their loved ones turned emotional while sharing their grief during the online conference. This showed that the initiative had already touched a chord, he said. He said while COVID-19 could be gone in a year from now, the resultant emotional distress would last decades. Pointing out that the bereaved families could not even give a proper farewell to the dead due to safety concerns, Dr. Mohan said the online portal could be a platform for them to memorialise their loved ones. Dr. Chowdury said the portalwww.national covidmemorial.in  had a simple but efficient verification mechanism wherein families should upload the death certificates of their loved ones or provide their contact number for verification through a phone call.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/national-online-memorial-for-covid-19-victims-goes-live/article33707295.ece
31 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Project for eco-restoration of Ennore Creek to begin shortly||A project for the holistic eco-restoration and rejuvenation of Ennore Creek is set to begin shortly. The project has been proposed following the successful implementation of the eco-restoration project of Adyar Creek and Estuary. The State government gave administrative sanction for the project this month. It will be undertaken at an estimated cost of Rs. 189 crore. The Chennai Rivers Restoration Trust and the Water Resources Department will implement the project over three years. The project is likely to be completed in 2023. The key aspects of the proposal include a sustainable river mouth opening at an estimated cost of Rs. 153 crore and habitat restoration for about Rs. 48.39 crore. The project also includes the implementation of an environment management plan for the Ennore Creek at an estimated cost of Rs. 57 lakh and the removal of solid waste for Rs. 35 lakh. The final report of the study on Ennore Creek by the CRRT has been approved. According to the WRD, the sustainable opening of the Ennore creek mouth and building of a training wall is proposed to reduce sedimentation. However, a proposal seeking a permanent solution to sedimentation is awaiting approval and funding from Kamarajar Port Ltd. for two years now.  The restoration of Ennore Creek also involves dredging for 2 km from the mouth to the Ennore railway bridge. The work is proposed to be taken up in two phases and under the CRRT project. The other work, including demolition of old piers near Nettukuppam, would also be included the project, sources said. Corporation officials said the Ennore Creek eco-restoration project would mitigate flooding in residential neighbourhoods located along major waterways in the city. The integrated stormwater drain project in the Kosasthalaiyar basin in north Chennai would be incorporated into this project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/project-for-eco-restoration-of-ennore-creek-to-begin-shortly/article33707265.ece
31 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Clearing the air on COVID-19 vaccines: the facts so far||It has been a fortnight since the two COVID-19 vaccines — Covishield and Covaxin — were rolled out in Tamil Nadu. A total of 88,467 healthcare providers/workers have so far received the vaccines. Sensing the hesitancy among the medical fraternity over the safety and efficacy of the vaccines, Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar and Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan took Covaxin, which is yet to see many takers, as a confidence-building measure. Yet, vaccination continues to be slow-paced in the State, which ranks low on coverage among large States. Three experts — R. Narasimhan, chairman, Respiratory Research Foundation of India; V. Ramasubramanian, senior consultant, infectious diseases, Apollo Hospitals; and V. Rajendran, associate professor of medicine, Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital — chime in to clear common doubts that people have about the vaccines. Why is there hesitancy to take the COVID-19 vaccines? Vaccine hesitancy is not abnormal, says Dr. Narasimhan. “This is the first time that mankind is facing a pandemic with so much information at hand. That vaccination is picking up slowly is not unexpected. People should not hesitate to get vaccinated when their turn comes. The vaccines are in big demand in most of the countries. When it was said that hydroxychloroquine was a potential treatment for COVID-19, no questions were asked, and people even bought the drug from shops. With vaccines, we have data and studies that show they prevent disease and transmission but now, there is hesitancy. If more celebrities in the field of medicine take the vaccine, there will be more awareness,” he says. How important is vaccination? Dr. Narasimhan says vaccination is extremely important to cut the chain of transmission. “The safety of the vaccines have been proved beyond doubt. As far as I am concerned, even if it gives 60% protection, it is good for an individual to break the chain of transmission. Vaccination will hasten the process of herd immunity...” How safe and effective are the vaccines? Dr. Ramasubramanian says Covishield and Covaxin are reasonably safe, and have passed two to three phases of trials. “There is no efficacy data for Covaxin. Both are reasonably effective and safe. It is much easier to vaccinate paediatric population than adults. Adult vaccination is a herculean task. However, this hesitancy is not unexpected. Wait for the second wave of infections, and we will have people running helter skelter seeking the vaccines.” Will the vaccines be safe as the testing time was short? Dr. Rajendran says, “The vaccines have been proven safe, and have no serious reactions. Though efficacy data is unavailable for Covaxin, it has been approved for emergency use after completion of phase I and II trials. This is a pandemic and everybody has put in efforts to bring out the vaccines. Vaccines are important to halt virus progression and are scientifically proven.” Will they have side effects? Any vaccine will have side effects, Dr. Ramasubramanian says. “The usual side effects are local reactions, pain at the injection site, swelling, irritation and low-grade fever. Anaphylaxis is one of the severe reactions. The Pfizer and Moderna vaccines have 10 times higher risk, and there have been instances of neurologic impact. However, no causality has been determined so far.” Are new virus strains a reason for worry? “Take the new U.K. strain for instance. It is known to spread faster, is more infectious but is not causing more serious illness or different clinical manifestations. So there is no need to worry. In cases of minor mutations, vaccines mostly do not go ineffective,” Dr. Rajendran explains. Who is eligible for the vaccines? Now, the vaccines are only for the priority groups — healthcare workers and frontline workers. Most studies have included persons above 18 years. As of now, pregnant and lactating women are not vaccinated, doctors say. “For immuno-compromised patients, there is limited data on safety. It is better that they are counselled before vaccination,” Dr. Rajendran says. “There is no contraindication for vaccines for people with co-morbidities like diabetes and lung diseases. The efficacy and safety do not change but the immuno-genicity may be less in people with immuno-suppression. This has to be weighed against no immunity without a vaccine. Some immunity is better than no immunity,” Dr. Narasimhan adds. Indian Council of Medical Research Director-General Balram Bhargava has said people on anti-coagulants may have to stop their drugs a couple of days before getting the shot, but those on anti-platelets such as aspirin can take the vaccine. Pregnant and lactating women have been asked not to take the vaccine now. The vaccine is not for children either. Dr. Narasimhan says further, “The fear is because the intramuscular injection can cause bleeding from the injection site. It has nothing to do with the efficacy and safety of the vaccine.” Should persons infected and recovered get vaccinated? Yes, everybody can take the vaccine, Dr. Ramasubramanian says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/clearing-the-air-on-covid-19-vaccines-the-facts-so-far/article33707269.ece
31 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘DMDK will contest alone in all seats if not treated with respect’||DMDK treasurer Premalatha Vijayakant on Saturday told her party’s senior office-bearers that the DMDK would contest alone in all 234 Assembly constituencies, if the party is not treated with respect by the AIADMK. She held consultative meetings with office-bearers in charge of the party’s zonal, district and Assembly constituencies, and deliberated over whether the DMDK should continue its alliance with the AIADMK for the upcoming election. The meeting was held days after party treasurer Ms. Premalatha criticised the AIADMK for delaying seat-sharing talks and demanded 41 seats from the alliance partner in the Assembly election. “Party founder Vijayakant will announce the decision on alliance soon. Premalatha Madam said if the DMDK is not respected [by the AIADMK], we should be prepared to contest in all the 234 constituencies alone,” said a senior leader. A sizeable number of the party’s office-bearers reportedly expressed their unwillingness to work with the PMK. “Some office-bearers told her we should not be in the same alliance as PMK as they do not follow alliance dharma and work for the victory of alliance candidates. She assured us that these things would be taken into account when the final decision is taken,” he said. Just before the 2019 Lok Sabha election, the DMDK leadership had demanded that the party be allotted the same number of seats as the PMK in the NDA alliance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmdk-will-contest-alone-in-all-seats-if-not-treated-with-respect/article33707280.ece
31 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Former top executives of ITNL arrested||Former top executives of IL&FS Transportation Networks India Ltd (ITNL), Mumbai, were recently arrested by the Economic Offences Wing of the police on charges of cheating a Chennai-based private company. According to sources, Ramchand Karunakaran, former managing director, and Hari Sankaran, former vice-chairman and director of ITNL, were arrested in Mumbai on January 27. They were produced before the Special Court for cases under the Tamil Nadu Protection of Interest of Depositors Act and remanded in the Saidapet sub-jail. Breach of trust They were booked for alleged offences of cheating and criminal breach of trust in the repayment of Rs. 200 crore invested in debentures by the complainant, 63 Moons Technologies Pvt. Ltd., Chennai. The complainant said that in 2014 and 2015, ITNL notified issuance of 1,000 and 2,000 non-convertible debentures with a face value of Rs. 10 lakh each, aggregating to Rs. 100 crore and Rs. 250 crore respectively, on private placement basis. The complainant alleged that the information memorandum was supported with credit ratings by reputed credit rating agencies and highly inflated balance sheets by its statutory auditors, who falsely created a picture that ITNL and IL&FS were highly profitable. To lure investors, ITNL falsely promised guaranteed annual return of up to 11.8% payable half yearly until redemption to its investors against their deposits with ITNL. The complainant relied on the representations and assurances made by the ITNL and key managerial personnel and invested Rs. 200 crore in debentures. Default in payment In 2018, IL&FS defaulted on its financial obligations and subsequently, ITNL defaulted in the payment of interest on debentures. Investigation by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) and the Serious Fraud Investigation Office exposed the alleged role of key management personnel in mismanagement in the lending business. No due diligence Money was lent to the entities without due diligence. The complainant company alleged that it lost Rs. 200 crore due to fraudulent representations of the accused. Acting on this, the Economic Offences Wing booked cases against the company and the accused under Sections 420 (Cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property), 409 (Criminal breach of trust by public servant, or by banker, merchant or agent) and 120B (Criminal Conspiracy) of Indian Penal Code and provisions of the Tamil Nadu Protection of Interests of Depositors (In Financial Establishments) Act 1997.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/former-top-executives-of-itnl-arrested/article33707296.ece
31 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Cancer helpline launched||GEM Hospitals has launched an exclusive 24x7 cancer helpline (95002 00600) and email cancerinfo@geminstitute.in to mark World Cancer Day, observed on February 4. A panel of experts will offer guidance on treatment and provide financial assistance if required, in association with the hospital. Online consultation and screening for cancer is also offered. Hospital founder Dr. C. Palanivelu said, “Oesophageal cancer is the fourth most common cause of cancer-related deaths in the country.” A minimally invasive surgery centre was also inaugurated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/24-hour-helpline-launched-to-mark-world-cancer-day/article33707266.ece
31 January 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||DMK takes out ‘padayatra’ to highlight condition of bad roads in Nagercoil||DMK MLA N. Suresh Rajan on Saturday led a padayatra to highlight the bad condition of roads in Nagercoil Municipal Corporation areas. “The roads are unmotorable. The Corporation and the National Highway Authorities have failed to repair them,” said Mr Suresh Rajan who launched the padayatra from St Xavier Junction in Kottar. He and those who participated in the protest were arrested by police. “We will organise a major protest if the roads are not repaired,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-takes-out-padayatra-to-highlight-condition-of-bad-roads-in-nagercoil/article33707739.ece
31 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Warrant against Shankar||The Metropolitan Magistrate Court-II, Egmore, has issued a non-bailable warrant (NBW) against film director Shankar for his failure to appear before it repeatedly in connection with a case registered against him for allegedly copying a short story of writer Arur Tamilnadan and making the blockbuster movie Endhiran , featuring Rajinikanth, Aishwarya Rai and others. Mr. Tamilnadan penned a story Jiguba , which was published in Tamil magazine Iniya Udhayam in 1996 and re-published as a novel Dhik Dhik Dheepika in 2007. In 2010, after the release of Endhiran under the direction of Mr. Shankar, it was found that the story was copied from Jiguba , Mr. Tamilnandan alleged. In a complaint, he said the makers of Endhiran had copied his story, which was a violation of the Copyright Act, 1957. They had earned a huge monetary benefit (in crores) from the film, which was originally his idea and creation. Last year, the Supreme Court dismissed a petition of Mr. Shankar challenging the order of the Madras High Court in connection with a copyright violation case against him. With this, the proceedings commenced in the Metropolitan Magistrate Court–II, Egmore. However, neither Mr. Shankar nor his counsel had appeared before the court. Hence, the court issued a non-bailable warrant against Shankar and adjourned the matter to February 19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/non-bailable-warrant-issued-against-director-shankar/article33707288.ece
31 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tribunal awards reduced compensation to petitioner||The Motor Accidents Claims Tribunal, Chennai, has cut compensation by 30% for an electrician after it was found that he was driving a motorcycle while inebriated and also did not have a valid driving licence or vehicle insurance. In his petition, E. Radhakrishnan said while riding a motorbike in Virugambakkam on February 2, 2009, he was knocked down by another which came in the opposite direction. He named A.K.T Arunachalapandian, owner of the other motorcycle, and its insurer United India Insurance Co. Ltd. as respondents. In its response, the insurance company said Radhakrishnan was driving inebriated and did not hold a valid driving licence. Further, it noted that his motorcycle’s insurance policy was not available on the date of the accident and sought the dismissal of the petition. The tribunal ruled that the accident occurred due to the other motorist. However, it said Radhakrishnan was also at fault. It directed the insurance firm to pay compensation of Rs. 1.18 lakh, after deducting 30% from the total compensation of Rs. 1.69 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tribunal-awards-reduced-compensation-to-petitioner/article33707256.ece
31 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Residents hold events to help conserve Korattur lake||In a bid to create awareness for the conservation of Korattur lake, the Korattur Aeri Padukappu Makkal Iyakam (KAPMI), a citizens’ movement, organised various events on Saturday. Students, volunteers and activists participated in the 4 km-run that started from DTP Colony and ended at Perumal Koil Street. Several events were also organised in collaboration with Alternative Media Centre, a non-governmental organisation working to revive folk arts. KAPMI’s secretary S. Sekaran said, “We are organising the Eri Pongal festival for the second consecutive year in Sanjeevi Garden Street. This is to help improve community engagement in conserving the waterbody.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/residents-hold-events-to-help-conserve-korattur-lake/article33707267.ece
31 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Complex surgery done on COVID-19 patient||The Health Secretary visited a 42-year-old woman from Erode district who was diagnosed to have ascending aortic aneurysm with dilated aortic root and severe aortic regurgitation, left renal artery stenosis and uncontrolled hypertension. She was referred to the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH) for further management in November. She had suffered from COVID-19 pneumonia in October. She was admitted to the hospital again three weeks ago in the Department of Cardiovascular and Thoracic Surgery. A surgery was performed on January 22. A team, headed by A. Sivaraman, performed a valve sparing aortic root remodelling with ascending aortic replacement-David’s procedure. In this, the diseased aneurysmal segment of aorta is excised and replaced with a tube graft.  The patient recovered well in the post-operative period, and is awaiting discharge. RGGGH Dean E. Theranirajan was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/complex-surgery-done-on-covid-19-patient/article33707268.ece
31 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Documents worth Rs. 1.35 cr. seized||The Department of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC) searched the house of an assistant director of the Rural Development Department in Arakkonam and seized documents of immovable property and other possessions worth Rs. 1.35 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/documents-worth-rs-135-cr-seized/article33707258.ece
31 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Seven get life sentence for 2013 murder||A sessions court has awarded life sentences to seven persons for murdering a youth in 2013. According to the prosecution, in May 2013, a motorist hit a child in the TNSCB quarters in Tondiarpet. The child’s father Krishnan and his friend Anthony tried to extort money from the motorist. The deceased, Senthil, an AIADMK functionary, intervened. Later, a gang broke into Senthil’s house murdered him. The police arrested M. Elumalai, his brother Seeni, Balasubramani, Krishnan, Anthony and two others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/seven-get-life-sentence-for-2013-murder/article33707259.ece
31 January 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Anna varsity suspends 2 PG programmes||Anna University has suspended admissions to two M. Tech programmes for which students were eligible for scholarship from the Centre’s Department of Biotechnology (DBT), as the rules of reservation governing admissions to these courses were in conflict with the State’s communal reservation rules. In a circular on its website, the university announced that M. Tech in Biotechnology and M. Tech in Computation Biology programmes would not be offered this year. As the Central government’s rules of reservation were not acceptable to Tamil Nadu, the university was unable to proceed with admissions to the courses, the circular said. The M. Tech in Computational Biology programme is a two-year interdisciplinary course, with three semesters of coursework and a final semester of project work. According to the website, until 2019, the entrance test for the course was conducted by Pondicherry University. Admissions to the Biotechnology M. Tech course, also a two-year programme, was through the Combined Entrance Exam for Biotechnology (CEEB) of the DBT, conducted by JNU. A University official said the DBT had permitted the universities to conduct the entrance tests but adhered to the Centre’s reservation policy of 50% quota [as opposed to the 69% in Tamil Nadu] to enable continuance of scholarships to students. The university had written to the Higher Education Department seeking its advice, which urged the university to follow the State’s reservation policy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/anna-varsity-suspends-two-pg-programmes/article33707272.ece
31 January 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Corporation experiments with new street design on Cross Cut Road||Cross Cut Road from the Gandhipuram Junction to Power House Junction is sporting a new look. On the southern and northern sides the road margins glow in fluorescent paint with a few markings. On a few stretches of the marked areas are seating arrangements, makeshift structures, plants in pots and separating them from the carriage way are dividers. The Corporation in association with the German development agency, GIZ, has created design elements on the street to make it friendly for pedestrian as well as motorists, says a source. The two agencies have in the past experimented with similar street redesign concept for Big Bazaar and Oppanakara streets. To improve pedestrian safety, reduce congestion and provide an uplift to the street, the two agencies have divided 900 of the 1,100m road in to two zones – high and low density zones depending on traffic and pedestrian movement. They have marked the eastern part of Cross Cut Road right from the Gandhipuram Junction to the Corporation parking lot at the Kalingarayan Street Junction as high density zone and the part of the west of the Junction as low density zone. In the high density zones, the agencies have earmarked three places as drop-off points for people to get off vehicles and three places in the low density zone as pick-up points for road users to board their vehicles or taxies, says the source. Similarly, the agencies have reworked all the junctions on the northern side of the Road – at the mouths of roads that lead to 100 Feet Road so as to slow vehicle movement as they turn right to drive on Cross Cut Road. Likewise, they have established a pedestrian safety island at the Gandhipuram Junction to help pedestrian cross the road safely, a coffee table plaza, bicycle lane and painted street art on the asphalt surface. The painting reads ‘Cross Cut for Kovai’ so as to encourage shopkeepers to be a part of the initiative. The source says that during the 15-day period the design will be on the street, volunteers from GIZ and Corporation staff will take feedback from shoppers and road users and also invite suggestions for improving the design.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corporation-experiments-with-new-street-design-on-cross-cut-road/article33707309.ece
31 January 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Leopard preying on livestock trapped, released into forest||A leopard that had been frequenting villages near Madukkarai in Coimbatore district and preying on the livestock, fell into a trap laid by the Forest Department early on Saturday morning. The leopard, aged around six, was trapped in a cage placed by the Department at Gandhi Nagar near Madukkarai around 4 a.m. on Saturday. The carnivore had been frequenting Ayyappan Kovil Street, Vinayagar Kovil Street, Ayyampathy, Tamilannai Street, Gandhi Nagar and a few other residential areas near Madukkarai for about a month. It had killed four goats of a farmer at Gandhi Nagar and attacked the pet dog of a resident of Mattapparai in the early hours of January 20. According to District Forest Officer D. Venkatesh, permission was obtained from the Chief Wildlife Warden to capture the leopard for translocation. A committee was formed to capture the leopard properly. The committee observed that the leopard has been straying into villages from the Boluvampatti reserve forest area of the Madukkarai forest range. Two traps were placed at Mattapparai and Gandhi Nagar on January 21. The carnivore fell in the trap placed at Gandhi Nagar early on Saturday morning. Mr. Venkatesh said that the leopard was released into Thengumarahada forest of the Sathyamangalam Tiger Reserve after a detailed examination by A. Sukumar, Forest Veterinary Officer, Coimbatore Forest Division, on Saturday afternoon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/leopard-preying-on-livestock-trapped-released-into-forest/article33707305.ece
31 January 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||48 test positive in Coimbatore district||The daily caseload of COVID-19 remained below the 50 mark in Coimbatore district on Saturday. The 48 new cases reported on Saturday took the district's total number of confirmed cases to 54,330. A total of 55 persons from Coimbatore district got discharged from hospitals on Saturday. Tiruppur district reported 20 fresh cases on Saturday taking the tally to 17,872 cases. No deaths were reported in the district. As many as 17,468 patients have recovered and 183 were active cases. Tiruppur district reported 221 deaths overall. On Saturday, 16 patients from the district were discharged from various treatment centres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/48-test-positive-in-coimbatore-district/article33707318.ece
31 January 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Children to get polio drops today||Children below five years of age will be administered polio vaccine across the districts in western region on Sunday. In Erode, over two lakh children will be immunised in 1,374 camps. Collector C. Kathiravan, in a release, said the Department of Public Health and Preventive Medicine would organise the camps to cover 2,00,142 children and 5,361 people, from various government departments, Indian Medical Association and volunteers would participate in the drive. He said 172 supervisors and nine special teams would monitor the camps. If children could not be vaccinated on Sunday due to any reasons, workers would visit each house and vaccinate the left out children, he added. The vaccine would be administered from 7 a.m. to 5 p.m. and special camps would also be held at bus stands, railway stations, temples and at places where people gather in large numbers. Mobile units would also administer the vaccine, he added. In Salem, the Public Health Department and the district administration arranged 2,255 centres to administer the vaccine. According to officials, they are targeting to immunise 3,66,945 children - 2,61,493 children in Salem health district and 1,05,452 in Attur health district. As many as 1,326 centres have been arranged in Salem and 929 in Attur. Besides government hospitals (GHs), primary health centres (PHCs), anganwadis and panchayat offices, vaccine would be administered at the toll plazas at Karipatti, Thalaivasal, Omalur and Vaikundam. Over 9,000 workers would be involved in the drive. In Namakkal, arrangements have been made to vaccinate 1.5 lakh children. A total of 1,274 vaccination centres - 1,105 in urban areas and 169 in rural areas - have been set up. As many as 5,523 workers would be involved. Officials have also arranged 36 mobile teams and 126 vehicles to provide the vaccine. In Krishnagiri, 1,59,486 children would be given the vaccine and 2,14,000 doses have arrived for the purpose. A total of 951 centres are set up across the district. This entails 888 centres in the 10 panchayats and 63 centres under the Hosur Corporation and Municipality. Mobile centres will cover children of migrant workers, construction worker settlements, sellers of plastic wares and stuffed toys by the pavements, and Sri Lankan Tamils. A total of 32 other department vehicles and 53 PHC vehicles are being deployed. The six community health centres, six GHs and 56 PHCs are equipped to store the vaccines. About 3,880 people are being engaged in the drive. Collector V. Jaya Chandra Bhanu Reddy has formed zonal teams with 21 officials to monitor the programme in various camps.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/polio-immunisation-campaign-today/article33707380.ece
31 January 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Four-year-old girl tortured by foster parents||A four-year-old girl was brutally tortured by her foster parents who adopted her illegally in Coimbatore. Investigation revealed that the couple had adopted the child without adhering to any rules. The police arrested the foster parents and a man who brokered the illegal adoptions on Saturday. The police also found that the seven-year-old sister of the child was adopted illegally by another woman, who has also been arrested. Deputy Commissioner of Police G. Stalin said the biological parents of the two children were at large. The police found injury marks on the four-year-old girl’s body, suspected to be caused by beating and branding. The District Child Protection Unit (DCPU) rescued the two children and produced them before the District Child Welfare Committee (CWC). A neighbour of the family said the torture came to light when the house owner noticed injury marks on the child’s body on Thursday and asked her the reason. The girl told the house owner about the torture and hot water being poured on her. The house owner immediately informed the police. “My wife had seen some marks on the child a few days ago. The foster mother told her that those were marks of torture done by the girl’s real parents and she and her husband adopted the child to save her,” the neighbour said. Coimbatore District Child Protection Officer R. Sundar told The Hindu that the police informed the DCPU about the crime on Friday. “A child protection officer went to the house and conducted an inquiry. The child narrated her sufferings to the officer,” he said. According to Mr. Sundar, the foster parents and the biological parents of the two girls did not follow any rules of adoption. Child Protection Officer Lavanya lodged a complaint at the Podanur police station based on which a case was registered under Sections 324 (Voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapons or means) of the Indian Penal Code, 75 (punishment for cruelty to child) and 80 (punitive measures for adoption without following prescribed procedures) of the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act 2015. The foster parents of the four-year-old were taken into custody on Friday. People, who thronged the building after hearing about the atrocity, tried to attack the accused while they were being escorted to the police vehicle. Mr. Sundar said the children were produced before the Child Welfare Committee on Saturday and they were shifted to a childcare institution.  (Child line emergency helpline can be reached at 1098).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/four-year-old-girl-tortured-by-foster-parents/article33707293.ece
31 January 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Mall to expand network||AMP Mall and Thangam Chambers of Coimbatore have inaugurated a 60,000 sq.ft shopping mall on Mettupalayam Road here. According to Rajesh Keerthi, Chief Executive Officer, AMP Mall India, the mall has 30,000 sq.ft of retail space, including a food court and super market. It has vehicle parking facilities for 100 cars. “This is a makkal mall in that the prices are affordable without compromising on quality,” he says. The shops are given on revenue sharing basis. Customers within five km radius can download an app, which will be launched soon, and place orders on it too. They can see each shop on the app and place orders through it. The mall has a Badagas restaurant at the food court. Thangavelu, Managing Director of Thangam Chambers, said the mall, which is a joint venture, has space to host weddings and parties too. “Our future projects are at Kovaipudur and Saravanampatti, ranging between 6,000 sq.ft to 40,000 sq.ft by end of this year. We will have a total of more than 75,000 sq.ft retail space spread across Coimbatore and creating job opportunities for more than 1,000 manpower directly and indirectly,” said Mr. Keerthi in a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mall-to-expand-network/article33707312.ece
31 January 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||65-year-old woman found dead||A 65-year-old woman from Keeranatham in Coimbatore was found dead under suspicious circumstances near Kovilpalayam on Friday. The police were investigating whether the woman was murdered or died of an accidental fall. The deceased has been identified as A. Bannari, a resident of AD Colony at Keeranatham. The woman was found dead near a bridge on Agrahara Samakulam to Vellamdai road. The police said that the woman had left her home around 11 a.m. on Wednesday, informing family members that she was going to attend a condolence at Vellamadai. After attending the condolence, she left for her home from Vellamadai. However, she did not reach her house at Keeranatham. The woman was found dead near the bridge. The body had bloodstains on the face. The police found a yellow colour powder near her body which was also spread on her hands. According to the police, a mobile phone and the imitation jewellery she wore were intact. As the body was found with blood oozing out of her face, the police registered a case and started investigation suspecting a murder. The police said that the place where the body was found is situated on a short-cut route from the woman’s house to Vellamadai. Kovilpalayam inspector Jeevaraj Manikandan said that the post-mortem findings could not arrive at a conclusion whether the woman sustained the injury in a fall or due to some force. “We are continuing investigation, checking various angles,” said the officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/65-year-old-woman-found-dead/article33707317.ece
31 January 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||22 persons arrested for cheating attempt||The Pollachi west police on Friday arrested 22 persons who attempted to cheat a businessman by promising to arrange him lucky stone and demonetised currencies. The police said that three men Mookaiah from Usilampatti, Abbas Manthiri from Tiruppur and Rajkumar from Dindigul approached Pollachi-based businessman Riyash on January 22. They told Riyash that they can arrange him demonetised currencies worth Rs. 10 lakh for Rs. 1 lakh through their friends in Kerala. The trio told him that they would also help him in converting the demonetised bills to the new ones through their contacts in banks in Tamil Nadu. The men also assured Riyash of arranging him a lucky stone, possession of which would prosper the owner’s wealth. They left Pollachi asking Riyash to arrange Rs. 5 lakh to get the demonetised currencies and the lucky stone. According to the police, 22 men belonging to the gang came to Pollachi on Friday and met Riyash in a deserted place. They asked Riyash to hand over the money and an argument took place over the deal. With people who were working in a nearby farm started coming to the place, the gang tried to leave the place. Riyash and his friends managed to stop five men while 17 others escaped in their vehicles. The five men were handed over to the Pollachi west police who later arrested the 17 others. The police also seized the vehicles. They were remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/22-persons-arrested-for-cheating-attempt/article33707420.ece
31 January 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||‘Meeting on Thekkampatti elephant camp soon’||As the annual rejuvenation camp for temple and mutt elephants is scheduled to be held at Thekkampatti near Mettupalayam in February, District Collector K. Rajamani said on Saturday that he will soon convene a meeting with officials from various departments. “We are planning to have a meeting on Monday regarding the preliminary arrangements [for the camp],” he told The Hindu . The preparatory works along the banks of River Bhavani at Thekkampatti will begin following the meeting. Mr. Rajamani said that the inauguration date for the elephant camp will be finalised in a few days. Meanwhile, the Commissioner of Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR&CE) Department S. Prabhakar has instructed all the officials to be prepared for the 48-day-long rejuvenation camp. Sources said that the officials were instructed to ensure that all the workers accompanying the elephants to the camp undergo COVID-19 tests and must only be allowed if they test negative. All those at the camp including mahouts, veterinarians and drivers must follow COVID-19 safety protocol such as wearing masks and the visitors at the camp site must not be allowed near the elephants.  Vehicles to be disinfected The vehicles transporting the elephants must be thoroughly disinfected prior to boarding the elephants, Mr. Prabhakar has instructed the officials. The HR&CE Department sources also said that the officials were instructed to ensure that all elephants have a COVID-19 negative certificate from veterinarians. When contacted, officials at the Forest Department said that although there are no instances of elephants testing COVID-19 positive in the country so far, the instruction could have been made as a precautionary measure.  All those at the camp including mahouts, veterinarians and drivers must follow COVID-19 safety protocol   S. Prabhakar  Commissioner of Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Department||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/meeting-on-thekkampatti-elephant-camp-soon/article33707313.ece
31 January 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Man trampled to death by elephant||A 59-year-old man from Sirumugai, near Coimbatore, was trampled to death by a wild elephant on Saturday evening. The deceased has been identified as Sampathkumar of Lingapuram. According to the Forest Department, Sampathkumar had an encounter with the elephant when he was returning from the farm to his house in a two-wheeler around 5 p.m. The elephant, which was crossing the road pushed Sampathkumar and trampled him. He died on the spot. Forest Department staff from Sirumugai forest range rushed to the spot and shifted the body to Government Hospital, Mettupalayam. Minor tension prevailed at the Forest Department check post at Lingapuram as people thronged the place in large numbers to mark their protest over frequent crop raids and attacks by wild elephants.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-trampled-to-death-by-elephant/article33707331.ece
31 January 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Parties urged to take up issues of MSMEs||As many as 19 industrial associations representing the micro and small-scale industries here have appealed to political parties to take up the issues and demands of these units. The Federation of Coimbatore Industrial Associations has said the parties should also announce the demands in their election manifestos. It said raw material prices should be revised once a year for MSMEs and the government should form a price monitoring committee. Large companies and even government organisations should pay the Micro, Small and Medium-scale Enterprises (MSMEs) for the supplies within one month. If there are companies that fail to do so, they should be black listed as done in Germany and Taiwan. The additional loan facility extended under the Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme should be given to those who did not have bank loan too. The interest rate for loans extended to MSMEs should be capped for a year and the government should give 2 % interest subvention to micro and small units that pay the GST on time. A separate loan scheme should be announced for MSMEs. The Government should also establish a "GST rectification and reforms committee". A welfare board should be formed for unorganised sector workers, the federation said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/parties-urged-to-take-up-issues-of-msmes/article33707328.ece
31 January 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Vellalore bus stand site inspected||Coimbatore Corporation Commissioner P. Kumaravel Pandian on Saturday inspected the bus stand that the civic body was constructing at Vellalore. A release from the Corporation said he along with City Engineer A. Lakshmanan enquired about the progress made, the location of various amenities and urged the supervising engineers to ensure timely completion. He also inspected the compost preparation plant inside the Vellalore dump yard, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vellalore-bus-stand-site-inspected/article33707310.ece
31 January 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Payment of electricity bill||Electricity consumers in Siddhivinayakar Colony, Rajashewari areas (PN Pudur distribution) and Vadavalli area (Bharathiar University distribution) should pay the electricity charges paid in December 2020 for the current month too. Since the Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation (Tangedco) personnel were unable to take the readings in these areas for the current month, the consumers should pay the charges within 20 days from the date when the readings are usually taken, according to a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/payment-of-electricity-bill/article33707311.ece
31 January 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Electric vehicle launched||Srivaru Motors, a Coimbatore-based startup, plans to ramp up its manufacturing facilities here. It has launched an electric vehicle (Prana), which is a sports motorcycle. The company has set up a Prana experience hub in Coimbatore and plans to start similar facilities in Tiruppur, Madurai, Puducherry, Kozhikode, Tiruchi, Bengaluru, and Dindigul. Interested customers can book for the vehicle online. The startup plans to expands its manufacturing facilities here on a 50 acre area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/electric-vehicle-launched/article33707320.ece
31 January 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Power supply to three textile processing units disconnected||Following complaints that effluents were let into Kalingarayan Canal, officials of the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board (TNPCB) disconnected power supply to three textile processing units functioning in the Corporation limits where effluent treatment plants were not operational. On January 26, officials received a complaint over phone from farmers in Chavadipalayam that effluents continue to mix in Kalingarayan Canal and the colour of the water had changed. The farmers said no textile processing units were functioning in their area and a flying squad inspected the canal at Chavadipalayam. Water sample was lifted and tested on the spot that revealed Total Dissolved Solids (TDS) at 300 mg per litre. The same TDS prevailed in the canal at many spots and samples were lifted from Chavadipalayam, Kaalamangalam, Pachampalayam and Pasur areas. Samples were sent to the laboratory at the board’s office at Perundurai. Inspection conducted Inspection was done at many textile processing units in Erode and Vendipalayam areas and officials found all the units were closed. Also, the effluents in the storage tanks in the units were not matching with the colour found in the canal. Again, officials inspected units from January 27 to 29 during night hours at Nadarmedu, Chithode and Periyasemoor during which they found three units discharging the effluents without processing. The officials found effluents being discharged into drainage channels and the effluent treatment plants lying idle. A report was submitted to the Collector and Chairman of the District Monitoring Committee C. Kathiravan, who ordered disconnection of power supply to the units.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-supply-to-three-textile-processing-units-disconnected/article33707327.ece
31 January 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Forest Dept. digs trench around Vilankombai tribal settlement||The Forest Department has dug a trench for over 500 metres around Vilankombai tribal settlement. It has also sought funds to dig trench for another two km to prevent wild animals from entering Vilankombai and Kembanur settlements. Both these settlements are located about 12 km away from Athani – Sathyamangalam Road coming under Kongarpalayam Panchayat in T.N. Palayam Panchayat Union in Gobichettipalayam Taluk. While 45 families reside at Vilankombai, 10 families reside at Kembanur. The distance between these two settlements is over five km and both are located in the T.N. Palayam Forest Range coming under Sathyamangalam Division of Sathyamangalam Tiger Reserve. People in these hamlets own two acre land each in which they cultivate millets, guava, paddy and maize for their own use. But wild animals, particularly elephants, frequently destroy their crops and people have been demanding trenches around their hamlets for many years now. Recently, the department dug a trench for over 500 metres around Vilankombai settlement. However, the trench needs to be dug for another one km to prevent entry of animals into the hamlet. Sources in the department said funds had been sought to dig trenches for two km around these two hamlets after which work was expected to be taken up. They said, after completing the trench for 2.5 km, no animals could enter these hamlets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/forest-dept-digs-trench-around-vilankombai-tribal-settlement/article33707325.ece
31 January 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Mock polling held in Erode||To ensure proper functioning of the polling units after completing first-level checking of electronic voting machines, control units and Voter Verifiable Paper Audit Trail (VVPAT) machines, a mock polling was conducted at the Railway Colony Corporation Higher Secondary School at Kollampalayam here on Saturday. District Election Officer and Collector C. Kathiravan inspected the conduct of mock poll. Representatives of recognised political parties were present. Election officials said a total of 4,779 ballot units, 3,646 control units, 3,938 VVPATs were kept at the centre and first-level checking was completed recently. The machines were randomly selected and mock polling was conducted, they added. The officials said the units would be used in all the eight Assembly constituencies during the election. Election Tahsildar Sivagami and Tahsildar Kumar were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mock-polling-held-in-erode/article33707414.ece
31 January 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Wildlife articles burnt at STR||Wildlife articles, including tushes of female elephant and leopard skins, that were seized by the Forest Department on various occasions were burnt at Sathyamangalam Tiger Reserve (STR) here on Saturday. Eleven items of wildlife articles comprising tushers, deer antlers, leopard skin, tiger fake skin, tiger teeth and nails, leopard teeth, nails and jaws in the possession of the department were burnt in the presence of Nihar Ranjan, Chief Conservator of Forests and Field Director, STR, P.G. Arunlal, District Forest Officer, Sathyamangalam Division and Deputy Field Director, STR, range officers, field staff, NGOs and members of village forest committee here. Body parts Officials said most of the body parts were recovered from dead animals while a few were seized from offenders at various forest areas at STR. To prevent miscreants from collecting the articles from the carcass of wild animals, they were removed during post-mortem and preserved and burnt, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/wildlife-articles-burnt-at-str/article33707415.ece
31 January 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||BIT team designs acoustic guns to drive away wild animals||With human-animal conflict continues to be a major concern for people and the Forest Department at Sathyamangalam Tiger Reserve (STR), a research team from the Bannari Amman Institute of Technology, Sathyamangalam, has developed a handy “Personal Safety Acoustic Gun” that emits high volume of sound and keeps away the wild animals. The team led by Sanjoy Deb, Associate Professor, along with Assistant Professors, R. Ramkumar and R. Saravana Kumar, from the Department of Electronics and Communication Engineering, designed the gun that is chargeable, lightweight and has a torchlight. The members said wild animal attack on humans in and around the reserve forest area was frequent, leading to injuries or even death of humans. “Though elephant attacks are high, attacks by other carnivorous like bears, leopards and tigers and herbivorous like wild pigs and bison are increasing in the past years,” they said. People in fringe villages and those moving inside the forests or near the forest areas were subject to attacks even during daylight. “Even trained forest staff are falling as victims during their forest patrol,” they added. Hence, to counter such a threat to human life, the team that had earlier developed numerous wildlife-related technology developments that are installed in different parts of India as well as abroad over the years, had developed the personal safety acoustic gun and had conducted field trials. Describing their new system, a member said the gun was a compact high volume sound emitting system that stunned any attacking wild animals thus buying time for the humans to move out to safety. “Although not designed as an anti-crop-raiding tool, the gun is highly successful in driving away crop-raiding monkeys, wild pigs and deer,” the member said. The team also added that a few samples of the acoustic gun were used by the department and villagers of Sathyamangalam on a trial basis that had yielded good results.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bit-team-designs-acoustic-guns-to-drive-away-wild-animals/article33707323.ece
31 January 2021||HOSUR,TAMIL NADU||Hosuril Thiruvaiyaru on February 7||Hosuril Thiruvaiyaru will be back in town on February 7, with a line-up of artists providing a musical treat to the residents here. The event, sponsored by the Hosur Industries Association, is being organised by Kurinji Fine Arts and Talent Tribe Consulting, in association with other social organisations. It will be held at KAP Kalyana Mandapam at Kamaraj Colony from 1 p.m. to 8.30 p.m. Hosuril Thiruvaiyaru 2021 will provide a platform for budding local artists. According to R. Rajagopalan, president, Hosur Industries Association, the event will showcase local talent digitally and popularise it among the national and international audience. It has also arranged online auditions for new talent. The winner will get a cash prize of Rs. 25,000. The event will witness the introduction of double violin in Thiagaraja Aradhana, specially performed by Neyveli Radhakrishnan and 101 singers, accompanied by accomplished artists performing the Pancharatna kritis. Leading artists Maalavika Sudar and Sandeep Narayan will also perform at the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hosuril-thiruvaiyaru-on-february-7/article33707387.ece
31 January 2021||Krishnagiri,TAMIL NADU||Briefly/Vaccination camp||A Ranikhet disease vaccination camp for poultry will be held from February 1 to 14 in all the villages in the district. The vaccination is usually done in summer, when the disease hits the poultry. The administration has dispatched 2.65 lakh doses of the vaccine to Dharmapuri. Vaccination will be done by veterinary inspectors in the evening in all the villages.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/brieflyvaccination-camp/article33707416.ece
31 January 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||BJP will fight Assembly poll with AIADMK, says Nadda||BJP national president J.P. Nadda on Saturday officially announced that the party would fight the ensuing Assembly election in Tamil Nadu with the ruling AIADMK. Kick-starting the party’s election campaign from Madurai, Mr. Nadda declared that the BJP had decided to go along with the AIADMK and other like-minded parties in the coming election. He said the AIADMK had regional aspirations, while also assimilating national ones. “Both [its leaders] M.G. Ramachandran and Jayalalithaa had regional aspirations, while assimilating national ones,” he said. The BJP will see to it that there is nation-wide development, along with development for Tamil Nadu. “Past experiences show that Prime Minister Narendra Modi has taken care of Tamil Nadu’s development,” he said. The Prime Minister has showed “dynamic leadership quality” in COVID-19 management, vaccination and security of the nation, he said. ‘Needs mainstreaming’ Stating that Tamil Nadu needed mainstreaming, he said it was possible only with the BJP. All issues faced by the State can be addressed by Mr. Modi. Mr. Nadda listed out various benefits Tamil Nadu enjoyed under the Modi government. “With the right person in the right place, right decisions are being taken,” he said. As against Rs. 94,540 crore given to Tamil Nadu by the UPA Government under the 13th Finance Commission, the Modi government gave Rs. 5.42 lakh crore for the development of the State under the 15th Finance Commission. The Centre has given funds for the development of the textile industry and the defence corridor, aimed at economic development. According to him, Tamil Nadu got a good share of funds under schemes like Swachh Bharat, Jan Dhan and PM’s Ujjwala scheme, meant to empower women and the common man. The needs of Tamil Nadu were taken care of through big projects like Metro rail, monorail, Rs. 20,000 crore investment in the Railways, 12 smart cities and AIIMS. Besides spending Rs. 1,200 crore on the AIIMS in Madurai, the Centre would be incurring a recurring annual expenditure of Rs. 2,000 crore on it, he said. “A total of 100 medical students and 100 paramedical students will pass out every year from AIIMS,” he said. The BJP leader said the DMK was against Tamil culture and was anti-national as it had rejected all national aspirations and did not support them. Mr. Nadda said DMK leader M.K. Stalin, who had refused to sport kumkum in the past, was forced by the BJP to hold a ‘ vel’ in his hands. The BJP was committed to protecting Tamil culture, he said. Party State president L. Murugan, party Tamil Nadu in-charge C.T. Ravi, its co in-charge Sudhakar Reddy and senior leaders were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bjp-will-fight-assembly-poll-with-aiadmk-nadda/article33707248.ece
31 January 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Plea for ‘single’ community certificate||Members of De-notified Tribes Association on Saturday staged a road blockade near Arapalayam pressing for a ‘single’ community certificate declaring them as DNT. The protest was led by its State treasurer P. Dhavamani Devi. After a prolonged blockade of road, the police convinced them to leave way for the general public as it was causing inconvenience to the motorists. “Our demand is two fold. We do not want community certificate as denotified community in the State and DNT in the Centre. Similarly, the Centre had allocated funds and completed caste-based census for DNTs across the country, except Tamil Nadu. We want the State government to do it immediately,” Ms. Devi said. She wondered as to why the State government was delaying the census whereas it had no financial commitment for the exercise as the Centre had released the funds. Besides, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, who had promised to remove the anomaly in the certificate issue during the Lok Sabha elections, had not kept this promise, she said. Tamil Nadu government should immediately appoint a nodal officer for the census. The census would reveal the strength of the DNT people, she said. Later, Minister for Cooperation Sellur K. Raju, and Forest Minister Dindigul Srinivasan met the protesters and pacified them. “They have promised that they would get us an appointment with the Chief Minister to discuss the issue soon,” Ms. Devi said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plea-for-single-community-certificate/article33707605.ece
31 January 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||People think DMK is an evil force, says Palaniswami||People of Tamil Nadu have an impression that the DMK is an “evil force”; so they will not allow the party to rule the State, AIADMK co-coordinator and Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami said on Saturday. He was speaking after opening a ‘temple’ built in memory of former Chief Ministers M.G. Ramachandran and Jayalalithaa at T. Kunnathur near here. Mr. Palaniswami said the two leaders had helped a lot to uplift the poor. Hence, even after they died, people wanted their party to lead the State. “With the support of the people and the blessings of the two leaders, we will win in the 2021 election,” he said, thanking Amma Peravai coordinator and Revenue Minister R.B. Udhayakumar for helping to build the ‘temple’ on a 12-acre site. Presiding over the function, AIADMK coordinator and Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam said it was not the AIADMK that wanted to defeat the DMK but the people of the State who did not want that party to return to power because it was considered an “evil force”. ‘A fashion statement’ He said criticising Hindus after elections and claiming to be a devout Hindu before or on the eve of elections had become a fashion statement for DMK president M.K. Stalin. “He may go behind the people with the ‘Vel’ [a spear] now but he cannot come to power as he dreams,” he said. People know how the DMK will behave if it is voted back to power, having been kept out of office for 10 years, he said. Mr. Panneerselvam said that burying differences, the AIADMK should emerge victorious in all 234 constituencies in a tribute to Jayalalithaa, who wished that the party would stay in power for 1,000 years. Mr. Udhayakumar said many multi-national corporations preferred investing in the State, in a sign of good governance by the AIADMK. The people would not vote for the DMK, which had hired “consultants” to win the election, the Minister added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/people-think-dmk-is-an-evil-force-says-palaniswami/article33707278.ece
31 January 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Pension Adalat to be held in Madurai on April 7||The Department of Posts will conduct a Regional Level ‘Pension Adalat’ at the Office of the Postmaster General, Southern region, Madurai, at 11 a.m. on April 7. The grievance for the adalat may be sent through ordinary post/ registered post/speed post with ‘Pension Adalat -2021’ superscribed on the cover. It has to be sent by March 5. Grievances towards delay/non settlement of pension benefits in respect of the officials retired from the Department of Posts, grievances in receipt of pension and family pension payment through post offices in respect of the retired officials of other departments such as railway/telecom alone will be entertained. Only those cases that have already been taken up with divisions/units and in respect of which the pensioners are not satisfied with the response from the divisional level can be brought to the pension adalat. Fresh cases directly sent to the pension adalat will not be entertained. The grievances can be addressed to P. Sonai, Senior Accounts Officer, O/o the Postmaster General, Southern Region, Madurai 625002. The pensioners can attend the pension adalat at the office on April 7 at 11 a.m. or can attend through video conferencing via ‘Google Meet.’ The residential address, mobile number, name of the nearest post office may be indicated by the pensioner/complainant for attending through video conferencing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pension-adalat-to-be-held-in-madurai-on-april-7/article33707609.ece
31 January 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Petition dismissed as petitioner has no required qualification: HC||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court dismissed a petition filed by a man who had sought a direction to the authorities to register his clinic under the Tamil Nadu Private Clinical Establishments (Regulation) Act. He obtained a Diploma Certificate in Community Medical Services in 2005. He had set up the establishment and wanted the recognition. The court was hearing the petition filed by K. Thangavelu who had completed a Diploma, the certificate for which was issued by the Indian Council of Medico Technicals and Health Care. The application to recognise his establishment was rejected by the Joint Director of Medical and Rural Health Services, Karur district. The rejection was challenged. During the course of the hearing, the Standing counsel for the Tamil Nadu Medical Council C. Karthik submitted that a registered medical practitioner is a person who possesses any of the government recognised medical qualification and was enrolled in the register of Council or Board or any other body recognised by the State. Rule 2 (1) (i) of the Tamil Nadu Clinical Establishments (Regulation) Rules defines a doctor as a registered medical practitioner offering consultation or treatment under Allopathy or AYUSH, it was submitted. Justice G. R. Swaminathan dismissed the petition taking note of the fact that the petitioner had not acquired the required qualification in any of the mentioned systems of medicine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/petition-dismissed-as-petitioner-has-no-required-qualification-says-hc/article33707401.ece
31 January 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||New lease of life for woman with genetic heart disease||Doctors of Meenakshi Mission Hospital and Research Centre (MMHRC) successfully treated a 34-year-old woman with a genetic heart disease by deploying a novel method of Alcohol Septal Ablation (ASA), which is about chemically inducing a localised heart attack. A press release from the hospital said the procedure was performed by a team of doctors led by cardiologist Sivakumar. The patient had inherited a heart disease known as Hypertrophic Obstructive Cardiomyopathy in which the heart muscles become abnormally thick. Dr. Sivakumar said that ASA is a minimally invasive alternative to surgical procedures. It is effective in reducing the size of an overgrown heart muscle. The desired result is achieved by injecting pure or absolute alcohol directly into the overgrown heart muscle. The injected alcohol creates a localised heart attack. Since the alcohol is toxic to heart cells, it kills them, and thus, reduces the size of the bulge. Without the bulge, blood flow from the heart improves, he said. The patient became symptomatically better and got discharged a couple of days. This procedure is cost effective and avoids an open heart surgery that would have left a permanent scar. Even though this procedure has been tried a couple of times earlier in MMHRC, this is the first time a patient is completely cured of a genetically inherited disease by a small dose of absolute alcohol, according to the release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-lease-of-life-for-woman-with-genetic-heart-disease/article33707608.ece
31 January 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Briefly||Repco Bank has won three awards at the Frontiers in Cooperative Banking Awards (FCBA), 2020. The Managing Director of Repco Bank, R.S. Isabella, won the Woman Leader of the Year award. The bank also won best digital bank and best fraud control initiative awards at a virtual ceremony presided over by Union Minister of State, Agriculture and Farmers welfare Parshottam Rupala.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/briefly/article33707603.ece
31 January 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||w||The water level in Periyar dam stood at 131.80 feet (permissible level is 142 ft.), with an inflow of 369 cusecs and a discharge of 900 cusecs. In Vaigai dam, the level was 69.23 ft. (71 ft.), with an inflow of 1,004 cusecs and a discharge of 1,069 cusecs. Combined storage in Periyar credit was 7,734 mcft. There was no rainfall recorded in the region in the 24 hours ending at 6 a.m. on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article33707412.ece
31 January 2021||NEW DELHI,TAMIL NADU||NCB probe into links of two Sri Lankans under way||Following a failed attempt to eliminate a Sri Lankan drug enforcement inspector in May 2017, M.M.M. Nawas and Mohamed Afnas — now arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) for their alleged role in an international drug trafficking racket — fled by boats. They entered India through the Rameswaram coast. The two Sri Lankans took refuge on the outskirts of Chennai. “Nawas is wanted for the attempted murder of Sri Lankan inspector Neomal Rangajeewa, who was seriously injured in the attack,” said an NCB official. As cloth traders The duo arranged a house for themselves and started living there in the guise of cloth merchants. The NCB probe revealed that the two used Sri Lankan SIM cards and other Internet-enabled platforms to remain in touch with the syndicate operating from Sri Lanka.  During their stay in Chennai, Nawas and Afnas allegedly got Aadhaar and PAN cards using fictitious names. They even managed to get loans from banks. “For locals, they were cloth traders. However, they were clandestinely coordinating mid-sea pick-ups and the delivery of heroin from Pakistani and Iranian vessels,” the official said. “Through this syndicate, which has links in Pakistan, Afghanistan, Iran, Sri Lanka, the Maldives and Australia, the consignments were shipped off the Karachi coast in fishing boats. These vessels usually do not enter Indian territorial waters,” said the official. “Investigations are under way to determine if the two had developed links with any local gang,” the official said.  They were clandestinely coordinating mid-sea pick-ups and the delivery of heroin from Pakistani and Iranian vessels||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ncb-probe-under-way-into-links-of-two-sri-lankans/article33707292.ece
31 January 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Concerns over restrictions near Raj Nivas||Several citizens have expressed concern over the continued imposition of Section 144 in the Raj Nivas area, even weeks after the conclusion of the agitation led by the Congress and allies seeking the recall of Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi. Central forces had been called in on an unprecedented scale ahead of the day/night agitation on January 8. Though the agitation was shifted to the Anna Statue on the plea of the administration, the area around the Raj Nivas continues to be barricaded, causing hardship to citizens. On Friday, the Forum for Social Harmony wrote to District Collector Purva Garg, urging her to lift the restrictions and withdraw the Central forces. The decision to impose Section 144 in the area had created enormous hardship to the public, especially the old and the sick who visited the Government General Hospital, Cluny Hospital and Ashram Nursing Home. Apart from those visiting hospitals, these restrictions were causing inconvenience to a large number of elderly people residing in the White Town area, S. Ramachandran, co-ordinator of the forum, said in the letter. For the last five years, the forum used to observe Martyr’s Day near the Gandhi Statue. “We had sought permission to conduct a pledge ceremony at the Gandhi Statue on Saturday. We were shocked to learn that the police had refused permission. The ceremony was then shifted to Anna Statue,” he said. Significantly, the restrictions remain despite Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy directing the removal of the barricades. Former Minister and DMK secretary (north wing) S.P. Sivakumar has already issued a strong statement against the barricading of roads near Raj Nivas. Founder member of People for Pondicherry’s Heritage Kakoli Banerjee, in a statement, said, “We were facing the blockade near Raj Nivas for the last few years. As if this was not enough, we are now made to feel like tresspassers in our own city if we try to access public roads around Bharati Park. We are not sure why the public space has been taken over. The political differences between the Lt. Governor and the Chief Minister cannot make the life of the public difficult.” Access to the road leading to the Ashram mess has become difficult. There are senior citizens residing in the Ashram, she said. “The Ashram community consists of many elders. Their movements are severely restricted as the dining hall is next to Raj Nivas. People of Pondicherry are quiet, peace loving people. These high-handed restrictions to our free- dom of movement will create more ill-will,” she said. Bitasta Samantaray, member of Pondy Can, in a statement, said the residents of the area had never before witnessed such restrictions. “People who are living here have not never seen such restrictions. People who have created such inconvenience owe us an explanation.” Area for residents Sunaina Mandeen, co-founder, PondyCan, said the issue highlighted the need to shift government establishments, including the Secretariat, the Assembly and Raj Nivas, from the Boulevard area. “The area should be left to the residents,” she added. When the issue was raised at a press conference a few days ago, the District Collector responded that the decision would be revisited, based on the law and order situation assessment by the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/concerns-over-restrictions-near-raj-nivas/article33707683.ece
31 January 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||U.T. registers 43 more COVID-19 cases||The Union Territory on Saturday registered 43 new COVID-19 cases from 2,695 tests. The Health Department, in its update on the status of COVID- 19 situation, said while 25 new cases were registered in Puducherry region, 12 cases were recorded in Mahe and 6 in Karaikal. The total number of people screened for the virus had gone up to 5,73,656. Currently, there are 306 active cases, including 116 under hospitalisation and remaining 190 in home quarantine. In Puducherry, 29 patients are undergoing treatment at Jawaharlal Institute of Postgraduate Medical Education and Research and 53 at Government Medical College. Overall tally The overall tally is 647 deaths, a total number of 39,047 cases and 38,094 patients treated and discharged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ut-registers-43-more-covid-19-cases/article33707679.ece
31 January 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||T. Vikraman nominated as MLA||BJP’s Puducherry unit vice- president T. Vikraman has been appointed nominated legislator by the Centre to fill the vacancy created by the death of K.G. Shankar. In a notification issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs on Friday, Govind Mohan, Additional Secretary to the Government of India, said the Central government had decided to nominate T. Vikraman as member of the Legislative Assembly. The Centre had made the appointment under Section (3) of Section 3 of the Government of Union Territories Act, 1963, the notification said. Strength reaches 30 With the appointment, the strength of the Puducherry Legislative Assembly has reached 30. The disqualification of a Congress legislator, death of a nominated legislator and the resignation of two legislators had earlier brought down the strength of the Assembly from 33 (three nominated) to 29.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/t-vikraman-nominated-as-mla/article33707681.ece
31 January 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Appointment of BJP leader as nominated MLA questioned||Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy on Saturday accused the Centre of overlooking the recommendations of the Cabinet in the appointment of nominated legislator T. Vikraman to fill the vacancy created by the death of K. G. Shankar. Addressing a press conference, the Chief Minister said after the death of nominated legislator Mr. Shankar on January 17, the government had recommended the name of Youth Congress president Illayaraja for the post. The Centre, without considering the name recommended by the Cabinet, unilaterally appointed BJP vice-president Vikraman as nominated legislator. On the implementation of the Motor Vehicles Act, the Chief Minister said the government wanted to implement the rules in a phased manner but the Transport Department was pressurised to implement the Act. ‘L-G threatened officials’ He accused the Lt. Governor of misusing her powers to threaten the officials of the Transport Department to issue the notification. The Chief Minister also criticised the Lt. Governor for imposing a higher tax than recommended by the Cabinet on liquor. The higher tax structure had resulted in a fall in revenue, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/narayanasamy-slams-centre/article33707300.ece
31 January 2021||Rameswaram,TAMIL NADU||Fishing resumes after a fortnight||After abstaining from work for more than a fortnight, fishermen ventured into the sea on Saturday. Following the alleged killing of four fishermen by the Sri Lankan Navy personnel on January 18 and earlier arrest of nearly 40 fishermen from Rameswaram, Thoothukudi and Thanjavur respectively on January 9, the fishermen stayed off the sea since January 13. Demanding the release of the fishermen and impounded boats, the fishermen associations have been on a strike since then. However, even as the Central and State governments took initiative and got the arrested fishermen released on January 19, the killing of the four fishermen led to anger among the fisherfolks here. Two days ago, the associations here demanded the release of nine fishermen held by the Sri Lankan Navy personnel, who have been jailed in the island nation. Meanwhile, following persuasion from the governments that they were taking steps to free the nine arrested fishermen, the associations decided to drop the strike plan and venture into the sea for fishing. Do not cross IMBL As a precaution, the fishermen association leaders have appealed to the fishermen not to cross the IMBL at any cost. Fisheries department officials in Rameswaram said that they had issued 353 tokens on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fishing-resumes-after-a-fortnight-in-rameswaram/article33707410.ece
31 January 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Farmers stage protest||Farmers staged a protest in front of the District Collectorate here on Saturday to condemn the Centre for the attacks on farmers in Delhi. During the protest, members of the All India Kisan Sangarsh Coordination Committee raised slogans against the Centre, accusing it of foisting cases on farmers who led the protests and conducted the tractor rally in Delhi on Republic Day. The protesters wanted the Centre to repeal all the three farm laws and withdraw the cases registered against farmer associations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-stage-protest/article33707417.ece
31 January 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Farmers observe fast in Delta to show solidarity with Delhi protesters||Members of the Thanjavur district unit of All India Kisan Sangarsh Coordination Committee and representatives of Opposition parties observed a fast at Orathanadu on Saturday expressing solidarity with farmers agitating against the three new farm laws in New Delhi. Several Opposition political party leaders, including Thanjavur North district secretary of Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam Durai Chandrasekaran and elected representatives such as Thanjavur MP S.S. Palanimanickam expressed their support to the ongoing agitation in New Delhi. The demonstrators led by N.V.Kannan of the AIKSCC’s Thanjavur district unit sought unconditional repeal of the Farm Laws and also demanded Rs. 30,000 per acre as compensation for losses suffered by the farmers in the Delta region due to the unseasonal heavy rains. Meanwhile, the Communist Party of India (Marxist) staged protests at different places in Thanjavur district, condemning the Tamil Nadu government and the police for threatening the participants of the tractor rally taken out at the district headquarters on Republic Day. Alleging that the Union government had engaged rioters to create law and order problems in the tractor rally held in New Delhi on January 26, the demonstrators raised slogans demanding the repeal of the Farm Laws and also the Electricity Amendment Act. The demonstrations were held in Thanjavur, Thiruvonam, Budalur and Peravoorani.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/delta-farmers-observe-fast-in-support-of-delhi-protesters/article33707299.ece
31 January 2021||Theni,TAMIL NADU||Posters welcoming Sasikala surface in Andipatti||An AIADMK functionary from Andipatti in Theni has put up posters welcoming V. K. Sasikala, the close aide of late Chief Minister Jayalalithaa, who was released from the Bengaluru prison recently. At a time, when Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK) cadre were celebrating the release of their leader across many parts of the State over the last few days, some of the AIADMK functionaries, who had put up posters welcoming Ms. Sasikala, were sacked from the party. AIADMK cadre warned AIADMK leaders Edappadi K. Palaniswami and O. Panneerselvam had warned the cadre of stern action and sacked those who had violated the party’s diktat. Two days ago, a functionary from Tirunelveli Town was sacked by the party for putting up a welcome poster. Fresh posters in Theni Under such circumstances, the fresh posters in the district, which is the home-town of the Deputy Chief Minister, has become a talking point in Theni. Recently, Mr Panneerselvam’s younger son V. P. Jayapradeep had in social media post wished her a speedy recovery from COVID-19, with a rider that it had nothing to do with politics.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/posters-welcoming-sasikala-surface-in-theni/article33707286.ece
31 January 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Garbage piles up in public places across Tiruchi||Piles of domestic garbage dumped at empty plots or road corners is a common sight in various residential areas of the city over the last few months. While residents complain of official apathy, the civic body says some sanitary workers and the public are to blame for the situation. The Tiruchi Corporation, in 2019, removed almost all the 1,172 dustbins across the city in an attempt to encourage door-to-door collection and decentralisation of waste, which were collected at micro composting yards. The plan, according to some officials of the corporation, has backfired as dumping in the open has become rampant. “Matters became worse during the lockdown. Only penalisation will help now,” a senior official said. The civic body has roped in self-help groups (SHG) to man the 200 mini trucks utilised for the door-to-door collection. “These SHGs are on a contract-basis and some of them collect garbage on alternate days. Who is to the blamed if residents of a household choose to dump them in public places instead of giving it to the sanitary workers,?” a sanitary supervisor wondered. A supervisor must insist that waste is collected from all houses every day, he added. Residents need to understand the importance of avoiding dumping waste in public places, another official said. “The stench and piles of garbage could cause health complications. The leachate from the garbage could seep into the groundwater which we drink. People must be aware of this issue,” he said. Meanwhile, Corporation Commissioner S. Sivasubramanian said a mass cleaning drive has been kicked off with earthmovers, trucks and sanitary workers across all 65 zones to clear the garbage. Since the civic body stopped collection of waste from commercial establishments, including hotels and hostels, the total waste collected each day has reduced by at least 100 tonnes. The total waste collected in the city is now around 300 tonnes, of which at least 30 tonnes is collected from Gandhi Market alone, Mr. Sivasubramanian said. The 31 micro composting yards in the city collect five tonnes of waste each, of which at least 150 tonnes is converted into compost. The remaining waste is processed at Ariyamangalam dump yard, he said. “So, dumping in public places may amount to about five tonnes of waste. Our officials are going door-to-door to create awareness of dumping waste in the open and also insisting on waste segregation,” he said. Meanwhile, the civic body, in an attempt to increase the frequency of door-to-door collection, has purchased 35 mini trucks of a larger capacity. “The ones we have can cover 1,500 houses. But the new ones can collect waste from 2,000 houses,” he said. Compact bins will also be set up at areas with a floating population, including at bus stands, and in places where tourist footfall is high, he added.  Failed plan Tiruchi Corporation removed almost all 1,172 dustbins across the city in 2019  SHGs were roped in to man 200 mini trucks used for waste collection from houses||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/garbage-piles-up-in-public-places-across-tiruchi/article33707392.ece
31 January 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Digital payments under EC lens||Digital money transactions (during Assembly polls), which come under the purview of the Election Commission, will be monitored and action will be taken as per the standard operating procedure, Tamil Nadu Chief Electoral Officer Satyabrata Sahoo said here on Saturday. Addressing a press conference, Mr. Sahoo said, “Already, a State-level committee has been formed; we held a meeting with officials of the Income Tax, Customs, Enforcement Directorate, the Reserve Bank of India and banks. SOPs are coming from the EC, based on which we will act on transactions that come under the purview of the Commission,” he said. This is part of the measure to check distribution of money to voters through the digital mode. Mr. Sahoo did not see anything wrong in political parties launching their campaign before the announcement of the election date. “The Model Code of Conduct will come into effect after the date of election is announced but even otherwise there are certain rules. But there is no bar on parties campaigning,” he said. On the criticism against parties on the issue, Mr. Sahoo said there were some complaints, and action had been taken as per the EC’s guidelines. When it was pointed out that parties were making promises, Mr. Sahoo said: “If there is anything against the law, the EC will give us suitable directions.” Elaborating on the preparations for the Assembly election, Mr. Sahoo said the first level checking of electronic voting machines and Voter Verifiable Paper Audit Trail (VVPAT) devices by BEL engineers had been completed in 26 districts. The exercise would be completed in the other districts by February 5. About the possibility of the Assembly election being held in March, Mr. Sahoo said he had no such information. He pointed out that the term of the current Assembly would end on May 24 and the EC would finalise the dates accordingly. At an interaction with a high-level delegation of the EC in Chennai recently, almost all parties were in favour of holding the Assembly election in a single phase, and the Commission would take this into account while taking a decision. Staff requirement Mr. Sahoo, who was here to inspect a four-day training programme for 118 returning officers from 20 districts, said the district election officers were assessing the manpower requirement for conducting the election and would prepare a list of staff from available Central and State government departments and the public sector units in their districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/digital-payments-under-ec-lens/article33707298.ece
31 January 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Women constable recruits pass out||A batch of 295 women constable recruits of the Railway Protection Force completed their seven-month training and passed out of Subsidiary Training Centre, Railway Protection Special Force (RPSF) 5th Battalion here on Saturday. The ceremonial passing out parade was held on the RPSF 5th Battalion premises. Southern Railway General Manager, John Thomas, presented medals and certificates of merit to the best recruits. Inspector General-cum Principal Chief Security Commissioner, RPF, SR Birendra Kumar was present. The recruits were part of the 3,000 recruited across the country to ensure better security of women passengers and children travelling in trains. Although the training commenced in late November 2019, it was suspended for over three months from March 2020 due to the lockdown. The recruits were from various States including Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Madhya Pradesh, Bihar, Chattisgarh, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand and West Bengal. The training resumed from mid-July 2020. The training included various aspects of policing including railways working system, security on railways, crime on railways, law, forensic science and disaster management. The recruits were oriented to various provisions of Railway Act, Railway Property Unlawful Possession Act, among other Acts. They are trained in bomb disposal, fire fighting and mob dispersal. They underwent training in handling various types of arms including advanced weapons, a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/women-constable-recruits-pass-out/article33707303.ece
31 January 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||A health hazard in Srirangam||Residents of Sankar Nagar in the city are raising a stink over leaky and overflowing sewer manholes. Despite several complaints addressed to the Corporation authorities, no actionhas been taken, the residents say. Five sewer manholes are overflowing in Sankar Nagar near Mangamma Nagar in Srirangam - all in a residential area. The leak is at its worst near a school. Due to heavy discharge of water from houses, the sewage overflows at least once a week, posing a health hazard. “Residents or visitors have to hold their breath until they walk or drive past the area,” says T.M. Ranganathan, a resident. Many people, who used to take a walk on the street in the morning, have stopped the exercise due to the stench, he said. Mr. Ranganathan said the civic body had installed pipes of a small diameter for a street with many houses. “There are quite a few apartments here. In the morning and evening hours, when the usage of the kitchen and rest rooms is high, the sewage water overflows from the manholes,” he said. “The corporation must take a review of the number of residences in the area and fit pipes accordingly. For streets with apartments, they need to fit large sewage pipelines to ensure smooth water flow. The chambers where the water collects must also be regularly cleared and waste removed, otherwise such situations will persist,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-health-hazard-in-srirangam/article33707734.ece
31 January 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||DIG recognised for unique project to empower and protect women||Deputy Inspector General of Police, Tiruchi range, Z. Annie Vijaya has been awarded the Sabre-APAC award for her initiative, ‘Project Shield,’ launched in September. The award, presented by SABRE- Asia Pacific, recognises campaigns that demonstrate high levels of strategic planning and creative results. Hester Cecilia, Director, SABRE, handed over the award to the DIG in Tiruchi on Saturday. ‘Project Shield’ is a unique initiative aimed at combating crimes against women and children and to create safe and violence-free communities. Launched in Tiruchi, Pudukottai, Karur, Perambalur and Ariyalur districts, the project is implemented in collaboration with the International Justice Mission and other stakeholders working for the welfare of women and children. Capacity-building programmes, speedy completion of cases and developing a systematic and evidence-based policing to help combat crimes against women and children in Tiruchi range is part of the project’s plan of action. “This recognition is a victory for women across the world. It is the need of the hour to empower women and children and Project Shield was an attempt in that direction,” Ms. Vijaya said  . “Creating a safe and protected society is step one of the project. Now, we will extend our work to schools and colleges, to encourage women and children to take part in activities which showcase their talent. Developing their skills is the next step,” she said. Honing their skills would create empowered women, who can take on the world, she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dig-recognised-for-unique-project-to-empower-and-protect-women/article33707394.ece
31 January 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||52 cases in central region; no death reported||The central region has reported 52 COVID-19 cases on Saturday. No COVID-19 related death was reported in the region. Tiruchi and Thanjavur reported an equal number of cases, with 14 persons testing positive for the virus in each district. The other six districts in the central region reported less than 10 fresh cases of COVID-19. Nagapattinam and Pudukottai districts reported seven fresh cases each and Karur and Tiruvarur districts five each. Among them were primary contacts and local index cases. In Karur, patients hailed from Kurumbapatti among other localities. Inter-district travellers from Namakkal also tested positive. No case in Ariyalur  No fresh case was reported in Ariyalur and Perambalur districts on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/52-cases-in-central-region-no-death-reported/article33707396.ece
31 January 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Official dies in car accident||J. Stanley Michael, 49, Joint Director of Tamil Nadu State AIDS Control Society (Tansacs), was killed in a road accident at Nedungur near Siruganur on Tiruchi-Chennai highway on Saturday. According to sources, the car he was driving rammed a truck from behind in the early hours of the day. The sudden slowdown of the truck was said to have caused the accident. Dr. Michael died on the spot. Returns The accident occurred when Dr. Michael, belonging to Coimbatore, was returning to Chennai after visiting his sister in Tiruchi. The Siruganur police are are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tansacs-official-dies-in-accident-near-tiruchi/article33707289.ece
31 January 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Mettur level||The water level at Mettur dam stood at 105.92 feet on Saturday against its full level of 120 feet. The inflow was 795 cusecs, and the discharge 1,501 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mettur-level/article33707399.ece
31 January 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Market to be reconstructed at a cost of Rs. 14.90 crore||The Mahatma Gandhi Market in Palayamkottai will be reconstructed under the Smart City project at a cost of Rs. 14.90 crore. Once reconstruction is completed with basement and ground floor, it will fetch a net revenue of Rs. 2.08 crore a year. The market, situated on well-connected 1.22 acres, has 266 shops with units size varying between 3 square meter and 10 square meter. The consignments received by shops at the market can be transported into the market area only manually due to low corridor width. There is no parking facility for commuters and ‘vehicle circulation space’ for traders. As the market’s floor is lower than the level of roads, water would stagnate inside the market even after a drizzle to cause problem to the traders and buyers. “Since the market building is 60 years old, it is in a dilapidated condition and waiting for an makeover. As it is in a prime locality, its commercial value is quite high. So, we’ve decided to use its potential to the maximum possible extent by rebuilding the market with excellent facilities to generate income for the corporation,” says V. Narayanan Nair, Chief Executive Officer, Tirunelveli Smart City Limited. As per the proposal, the new structure will have basement and ground floor with the total built up area of 3,877 square meter in the basement and 3,553 square meter in the ground floor. While the basement can accommodate 27 four-wheelers and 819 two-wheelers, the ground floor with the commercial area of 1,835 square meter will have 172 shops, which will collectively generate income of 1.18 crore per year to the corporation. A cold storage facility with a capacity of 50 tonnes will be created to store unsold perishable items of traders and it will ensure revenue of Rs. 10.80 lakh. A pay-and-use toilet complex will be a part of the project to augment the revenue by another Rs. 19.35 lakh. “While car parking will generate the annual income of Rs. 5.73 lakh, the two-wheeler parking lot will ensure another Rs. 77.82 lakh per year. In all, the reconstructed market will fetch Rs. 2.08 crore per year after gross expenditure of Rs. 48.23 lakh towards housekeeping,” says Dr. Nair.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/market-to-be-reconstructed-at-a-cost-of-rs-1490-crore/article33707607.ece
31 January 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||TNSTC staff stage protest||Urging the government to start wage settlement talks without further delay, the Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC) workers observed a fast here on Saturday. The protestors, led by A. Dharman of DMK-backed Thozhilaalar Munnetra Sangam, observed the fast in front of TNSTC’s Tamirabharani Depot in Vannarpet. The protestors said the State, which was settling arrears to be given to the retired employees, should start the wage settlement talks immediately. CITU’s district treasurer M. Perumal inaugurated the hunger strike in which AITUC’s N. Ulaganathan, HMS’s P. Subramanian and others spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tnstc-staff-stage-protest/article33707407.ece
31 January 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||More than 100 sheep die||More than 100 sheep died near Kovilpatti on Saturday after they consumed a lot of sorghum that got drenched in recent rains. Shepherds in Vavvaalthoththi near Kovilpatti said sorghum cultivated on several acres of land near their village were destroyed by the recent unseasonal rains and hence the farmers allowed the cattle-rearers to graze the sheep on their lands. When the sheep consumed a lot of sorghum grains, it caused bloating and though the shepherds administered traditional medicines, more than 100 animals died, forcing them to seek intervention by veterinarians. “We’ve lost around 150 sheep, each costing about Rs. 15,000,” they said. Following information, a team of veterinarians from the Department of Animal Husbandry rushed to Vavaalthoththi. “The farmers have lost 101 animals,” said by Joint Director of Animal Husbandry Dr. M. Sampath. The samples have been sent for analysis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/more-than-100-sheep-die/article33707405.ece
31 January 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Water level||The water level in Papanasam dam on Saturday stood at 140.50 feet. The inflow was 581.95 cusecs and 704.75 cusecs was discharged. In Manimuthar dam level was 116 feet. Inflow was 204 cusecs and 475 cusecs was discharged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article33707741.ece
31 January 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Salem Division launches third parcel cargo express train||Divisional Railway Manager of Salem Division A. Gautam Srinivas inaugurated a parcel cargo express train for transporting essential commodities to New Guwahati Junction in Assam from Vanjipalayam Junction in Tiruppur on Saturday. According to a press release, the leased parcel cargo train will leave Vanjipalayam on Saturdays at 8.30 p.m. and reach New Guwahati Junction on Tuesdays at 8 p.m. While returning, the train will leave New Guwahati station at 8.30 p.m. on Thursdays and reach Vanjipalayam at 12.30 a.m. on Mondays. The stoppages for loading and unloading of goods will be at Erode, Vijayawada, Khurdha Road, Sankrail Goods Terminal Yard and New Jalpaiguri Junction. The train has a capacity of 353 tonnes and has 15 parcel vans, which will transport commodities such as medicines, medical equipment, eggs, food products and various other goods. The contract to look after the loading and unloading of goods and revenue collection for the train was awarded to a private logistics firm for a period of six years. This is the third parcel cargo train operated by the Salem Division of Southern Railway. The first two parcel cargo trains were operated from Coimbatore North Junction to Patel Nagar Junction in New Delhi and to Rajkot Junction in Gujarat, according to the release. Senior Divisional Commercial Manager E. Harikrishnan requested manufacturing units, business entities, traders and distributors to utilise the cargo train service to move their consignments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/salem-division-launches-third-parcel-cargo-express-train/article33707330.ece
31 January 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||1,000 bulls registered for Alagumalai jallikattu||Minister for Animal Husbandry Udumalai K. Radhakrishnan will participate in the fourth edition of jallikattu at Alagumalai village in Tiruppur district at 7.30 a.m. on Sunday. The jallikattu is jointly organised by Tiruppur district administration and Alagumalai Jallikattu Bulls’ Welfare Association. President of the association S. Palanisamy said on Saturday that all the arrangements for the conduct of the event have been completed and around 1,000 bulls have been registered. Amid the COVID-19 pandemic, the number of tamers will be limited to 300. The event will be live streamed on YouTube and will also be displayed on large screens.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/1000-bulls-registered-for-alagumalai-jallikattu/article33707314.ece
31 January 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Man arrested||The All Women Police (South) on Friday arrested a man on charges of sexually assaulting a 17-year-old girl in Tiruppur City Police limits. Police sources said that Raj (38), a tailor, was arrested based on a complaint lodged by the victim’s mother. The accused was booked under sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-arrested/article33707316.ece
31 January 2021||TIRUPPUR,TAMIL NADU||Missing child traced within two hours||A five-year-old girl who went missing was reunited with her parents within two hours on Saturday. The child, whose parents were from Bihar, was playing outside her residence in Poyampalayam at around 10.30 a.m. on Saturday when she reportedly wandered away and was lost. Her parents reported to the Anupparpalayam police station at around noon, following which a team led by Inspector Muniammal traced the child near Vengamedu by 1 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/missing-child-traced-within-two-hours/article33707315.ece
31 January 2021||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||DVAC raids sub-registrar office||Officials of the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption seized Rs. 40,000 and certain documents from the Sub-Registrar office, Mannargudi, after a night-long raid at the office on Friday. The DVAC personnel raided the office from Friday evening after they received information that bribes were being demanded for various services at the office.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dvac-raids-sub-registrar-office/article33707389.ece
31 January 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Unseasonal rain ensures availability of drinking water for Ooty||Unseasonal rain in the Nilgiris has ensured that major dams and reservoirs that supply drinking water to Udhagamandalam town remain at more than 80% capacity. According to officials from the Udhagamandalam Municipality, the storage level at the Parsons Valley Dam, the main reservoir supplying drinking water to Udhagamandalam town, stands at almost 42 feet, out of a total capacity of 50 feet during the third week of January. “Unseasonal rain in November and December has ensured that water level at the dam is at higher capacity than last year, when the storage at the dam was at 31.80 feet,” said an official from the municipality. Other reservoirs in the district - Marlimund, Tiger Hill, Gorishola, Doddabetta Upper, Kodappamund Upper, Doddabetta Lower, Kodappamund Lower, Old Ooty and Glen Rock - which periodically ensure supply to the town in case of water shortage, also have water storage level matching or exceeding last year’s level, the official said. “This should ensure that there is adequate drinking water till the Southwest monsoon hits the district in June,” the official said, adding that the lack of tourists to the Nilgiris in 2020 also ensured that there was no lack of water for any of the district’s major towns as the water requirements had reduced drastically.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/unseasonal-rain-ensures-availability-of-drinking-water-for-ooty/article33707322.ece
31 January 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||13 persons test positive for COVID-19 in Vellore||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 20,724 with 13 new cases reported on Saturday. While a total of 20,270 persons have been discharged, the active cases in the district stand at 106. The district's death toll is 348. In Ranipet district, four cases were reported positive taking the tally to 16,114. In Tirupattur district, the total number of positive cases stood at 7,570 with two new cases on Saturday. In Tiruvannamalai district, five new cases were reported, taking the total number of cases to 19,353. Out of this, 19,041 have been discharged and the number of active cases stands at 29. U.T. records 43 cases The Union Territory on Saturday registered 43 new COVID-19 cases from 2,695 tests. The Health Department, in its update on the status of COVID- 19 situation, said while 25 new cases were registered in Puducherry region, 12 cases were recorded in Mahe and 6 in Karaikal. With 2,685 more people tested, the total number of people screened for the virus had gone up to 5,73,656.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/13-persons-test-positive-in-vellore/article33707684.ece
31 January 2021||VILLUPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Ministers call on PMK chief||A ministerial delegation led by Local Administration Minister S.P. Velumani and Law Minister C.Ve. Shanmugam on Saturday called on Pattali Makkal Katchi (PMK) founder Dr. S. Ramadoss at the latter’s residence in Thailapuram, near Villupuram. Sources said Mr. Velumani, Mr. Shanmugam, Electricity Minister P. Thangamani and Higher Education Minister K.P. Anbalagan held discussions with Mr. Ramadoss for nearly 40 minutes. The meeting assumes significance against the backdrop of a crucial PMK meeting scheduled on Monday, which is likely to take a call on continuing the alliance with the AIADMK. It is believed they discussed the issue of earmarking reservation for Vanniyars in education and employment in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ministers-call-on-pmk-chief/article33707274.ece
31 January 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Walk out at panchayat union council meet||Majority of the councillors, including those from the ruling AIADMK, staged a walk out during the Virudhunagar Panchayat Union council meeting held here on Friday protesting against ‘wasteful’ expenditure proposed by Chairperson R. Sumathi. Members cutting across party lines questioned the rationale behind spending Rs. 80 lakh on a building for self help group federation at Moolipatti when officials of the local body were claiming that there were no funds even to take up minor works to fulfil basic amenities. “For the last 18 months, I have been pleading to construct drainage for 50 metres to prevent water stagnation and mosquito breeding. The officials who have been denying this work on the grounds of lack of funds were trying to invest Rs. 80 lakh on a building,” said ruling party councillor, E. Mariappan, of ward number 18. A DMK member (ward 19), P.K. Sankararaj, complained that the subjects in the agenda had not been consulted with the elected representatives. “The officials have no answer as to why they should spend so much of money. Besides, the location of the building for the SHGs is in a very remote place,” he complained. Mr. Mariappan said that with shortage of funds for the project, Rs. 20 lakh was being taken from the general fund. Mr. Sankararaj also raised the question against the proposal to spend Rs. 10 lakh on renovation of the office of the Block Development Officer. Amidst opposition from majority of councillors, when the Chairperson said that she would go ahead with the agenda, most of the councillors from all parties walked out of the hall. “Only the Chairperson, Vice-Chairperson Muthulakshmi and two other ruling party members were present inside the hall. No other member has signed giving their consent for the subjects in the agenda,” said Mr. Mariappan. In the 25-member panchayat union, AIADMK has 14 councillors (with one deceased), DMK nine and others two.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/walk-out-at-panchayat-union-council-meet/article33707408.ece
31 January 2021||January 31 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Of lives, limbs and the bull run||Life turned into a nightmare for P. Gurusamy, a 70-year-old resident of Uchaparambumedu in Madurai, after he attended a jallikattu event that was held at Avaniapuram during Pongal last year. He lost his 28-year-old son, G. Azhagar, who was gored to death by a bull. “I have lost half of my soul since my son died,” said Mr. Gurusamy. Recalling the tragic incident, Mr. Gurusamy said he and his son went to witness the jallikattu without a pass, which is necessary to gain access to the spectator’s gallery. Around half a kilometre from the vaadivasal (entry point to the arena), a group squeezed through a barricade to watch the event from within the arena. “My son went through the barricade and I was just a few metres behind him. It was at that moment that a bull gored him right in front of my eyes,” he said. Since the death of his son, Mr. Gurusamy has been taking up odd jobs to support his family. “My son was the breadwinner of the family. He used to work hard to earn around Rs. 900 a day. Since his death, our family is struggling to make ends meet. The incident has also taken a huge toll on our entire family’s mental health,” he added. Such tragedies are not new to the jallikattu arena — the bull-taming sport that is held during the festival of Pongal. The sport, which is popular across south Tamil Nadu, is perceived as a symbol of pride for the Tamil male. It was not too long ago that the entire State came to a standstill after the Marina jallikattu protest in Chennai made a strident point for its continuation, in view of attempts to ban animal sports. While the protests turned into a catalyst for many to promote several causes, the sport was not banned. Instead, it was regulated in order to minimise deaths and injuries. Drop in deaths There has been a significant drop in the number of deaths that have occurred inside the arena during the jallikattu events held at the three popular venues in Madurai — Avaniapuram, Palamedu and Alanganallur — after stringent regulations were put in place in 2017, officials from the Madurai district administration said. The Tamil Nadu Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (Conduct of Jallikattu) Rules, 2017, mandate the Collector to form a committee on jallikattu, which comprises officials from the Revenue, Animal Husbandry, Police and Health Departments, to oversee and monitor the sport. As per the rules, the bull should undergo a medical check-up to ensure that no performance-enhancing drugs are fed to it. The animals must be free from diseases and intoxicants. Even if a small injury is found, the bull is not allowed to participate. Participants face strict rules too. They are not allowed to hold on to the tails, horns or legs — actions that would restrict the movement of the bulls. ‘Only minor injuries’ District Joint Director of Animal Husbandry R. Rajathilagam said during the jallikattu events held in the last few years, the bulls had sustained only minor injuries. All the injured bulls were given proper treatment. “Last year, a few bulls had accidentally fallen into shallow wells and were later rescued by personnel from the Fire and Rescue Services Department. Although we closed all the nearby wells this year, a bull fell into a small pit during the Palamedu jallikattu. But officials promptly rescued and treated it,” Mr. Rajathilagam said. The conduct of medical check-ups for bull tamers before the event, which helped to ensure that they had not consumed alcohol, have also been made more stringent in recent years. As per the rules, all bull tamers have to carry identity cards and the entire event has to be videographed. An official from the Madurai district administration said from 2017, the players were only allowed to participate in batches of 75, instead of everyone being allowed to enter the arena at the same time. This had actually helped bring down the number of deaths. “Earlier, hundreds of players used to swarm the arena throughout the event. This resulted in overcrowding inside the arena, and increased the risk of injuries to both the bulls and the tamers,” he added. Deployment of volunteers from the Indian Red Cross Society (IRCS) during the events had also helped provide first aid to injured bull tamers, said A. Rajkumar, coordinator, IRCS. “This has helped reduce deaths caused by bleeding,” he added. While there was a significant fall in the number of deaths caused within the arena, there were still casualties recorded at the collection point where the bulls exit the arena and the holding yards behind the vaadivasal , regular onlookers said. This year, too, a 24-year-old man was gored by a bull near the vaadivasal during the Alanganallur jallikattu. He later succumbed to his injuries. With the collection point out of sight from the vaadivasal , overseeing the movement of the bulls and the crowd becomes difficult, said a police officer who was deputed during the events. “A separate jallikattu event takes place at the collection point as scores of youth try to get hold of the bulls running amok,” he added. Meanwhile, Mr. Gurusamy has moved the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court, seeking appropriate compensation from the State for his son’s death. His representation was turned down by the Madurai district administration, which stated that he was not eligible for compensation under the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund .  In his petition, Mr. Gurusamy urged the authorities to provide compensation of at least Rs. 2 lakh. M. Malar Mannan, a bull tamer and owner from Alanganallur, stressed on the need for the government to ensure that all bull tamers are covered under a medical insurance scheme. “Many of the players are from poor families. They participate in the jallikattu events out of love for the traditional sport. There have been multiple cases where players have become physically unfit to continue in their profession after being severely injured during the event,” he said. However, the unpredictable and unsafe nature of the sport has not deterred bull tamers and owners from participating in the events. M. Manirathinam, a 27-year-old bull tamer from Mudakathan in Madurai, lost vision in his left eye after sustaining injuries during a jallikattu held in 2014. Braving the injury, he has been rearing jallikattu bulls and has even sought permission to participate. “For most bull tamers, participating in the events is a symbol of pride. This traditional sport of the Tamil culture must be carried forward to the future generations,” Mr. Manirathinam added. During the pandemic This passion towards the sport was visible during the jallikattu events held in Madurai amid the COVID-19 pandemic. Although a separate standard operating procedure (SOP) was issued by the government for conducting jallikattu events during the pandemic, most precautions were flouted. Before the conduct of the event, the officials had said separate markings would be made at the spectators’ galleries to ensure compliance with physical distancing norms. However, the galleries were packed and most of the people failed to wear face masks. There were no arrangements made by the district administration for thermal screening of spectators, though that was also part of the SOP. Hundreds thronged the arena for 10 minutes after the inauguration of the event at Palamedu, with total disregard to COVID-19 safety norms. At Alanganallur, scores of spectators rushed to the galleries — neither wearing masks nor maintaining minimum physical distance — in the early hours before the commencement of the event. Other formats While the focus has always been on the jallikattu events held in Madurai, the events held at other places often escape scrutiny by animal rights groups. Jallikattu and other formats of the sport — including ‘manjuvirattu’ and ‘vadamaadu’ — are held at numerous places across the State. In some places, venues often lack safety measures. In some instances, the events are held without obtaining any permission. The list of injured and dead players often goes unnoticed. S. Sivakumar, a resident of Kambur village in Madurai, lost his 60-year-old uncle a couple of years ago during the ‘manjuvirattu’ event held at Araliparai in Sivaganga district. “He was the breadwinner and his death has deeply affected the family,” he added. There is a pressing need to regulate all bull-taming sports that are held in various pockets of the State, said P. Ranjith Kumar, secretary of the Jallikattu Training Centre, a registered body that trains bull tamers. “The government must provide financial compensation to the families of bull tamers who have died during these events,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/of-lives-limbs-and-the-bull-run/article33707263.ece
31 January 2021||January 31 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||BJP will fight Assembly poll with AIADMK: Nadda||The Prime Minister has showed “dynamic leadership quality” in COVID-19 management, vaccination and security of the nation, he said. Stating that Tamil Nadu needed mainstreaming, he said it was possible only with the BJP. All issues faced by the State can be addressed by Mr. Modi. Mr. Nadda listed out various benefits Tamil Nadu enjoyed under the Modi government. “With the right person in the right place, right decisions are being taken,” he said. As against Rs. 94,540 crore given to Tamil Nadu by the UPA Government under the 13th Finance Commission, the Modi government gave Rs. 5.42 lakh crore for the development of the State under the 15th Finance Commission. The Centre has given funds for the development of the textile industry and the defence corridor, aimed at economic development. Tamil Nadu got a good share of funds under schemes like Swachh Bharat, Jan Dhan and PM’s Ujjwala scheme, he said. The needs of Tamil Nadu were taken care of through projects like Metro, monorail, Rs. 20,000 crore investment in the Railways, 12 smart cities and AIIMS. Besides spending Rs. 1,200 crore on AIIMS in Madurai, the Centre would be incurring a recurring annual expenditure of Rs. 2,000 crore on it, he said. Mr. Nadda said DMK leader M.K. Stalin, who had refused to sport kumkum in the past, was forced by the BJP to hold a ‘ vel’. Party State president L. Murugan, party Tamil Nadu in-charge C.T. Ravi, its co in-charge Sudhakar Reddy and senior leaders were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bjp-will-fight-assembly-poll-with-aiadmk-nadda/article33707279.ece
31 January 2021||January 31 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||21 COVID-19 cases reported in Erode||Erode district reported 21 new COVID-19 cases on Saturday, taking the district’s tally to 14,343. While 20 persons were discharged, 191 persons continue to be under treatment. In Salem, 20 positive cases were reported, of which 17 were indigenous including eight in Salem Corporation limits. Three patients returned from Namakkal. Namakkal reported 11 cases. Three patients returned from Kerala, Coimbatore and Karur. As per the Health Department bulletin, a 67-year-old woman from Namakkal died at the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/21-covid-19-cases-reported-in-erode/article33707413.ece
31 January 2021||January 31 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||T.N. has suggested vaccination for elderly||Many persons avoided taking Covaxin as it was in phase-3 trials and preferred Covishield, he said. “But now, the trend has changed. Many are coming forward to take Covaxin. Both vaccines are safe,” he said, adding that there had been no complications so far. “We are starting vaccination for frontline workers from February 1. We have covered one lakh persons so far and have stock to vaccinate six lakh persons,” he said. Noting that the level of vaccination was improving in the State, he said the State had the capacity to vaccinate nearly 16,000 persons a day. “At times, there are unverified news on WhatsApp or some of them want to wait. Healthcare workers are being prioritised not to test the vaccine but because they are at the forefront of COVID-19 care,” he said. “The vaccination coverage of one lakh is good but we have achieved it slowly. We hope we will improve gradually,” he said, adding that the Centre would continue supplying vaccines to the State. He said that on average, 27 districts were reporting fewer than 15 COVID-19 cases a day. “The focus is on virus suppression to bring the number of cases down to zero in these districts. The other aim is to reduce mortality. We had 129 deaths on August 15, and the number has declined to five or six now owing to the efforts taken by medical teams. The aim is to achieve zero fatalities,” he said. On poor compliance with mask-wearing, the Health Secretary said shops and market areas were totally mask-less. “We should not be complacent,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-has-suggested-vaccination-for-elderly/article33707383.ece
31 January 2021||January 31 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Bright prospects||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bright-prospects/article33707404.ece
31 January 2021||January 31 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Tribute||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tribute/article33707602.ece
31 January 2021||January 31 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Taking a break||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/taking-a-break/article33707737.ece
31 January 2021||January 31 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Panoramic sight||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/panoramic-sight/article33707745.ece
31 January 2021||January 31 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Tiruchi Today||Indian Oil Corporation Ltd.: Saksham Cycle Day to raise awareness on conservation of petroleum products, Makkal Mandram, Thillai Nagar, 7 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruchi-today/article33707735.ece
31 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Govt. castigated over protracted probes||Reprimanding the government authorities for denying retirement benefits to employees by protracting departmental inquiries for over a decade, the High Court of Karnataka has directed the State government to complete departmental inquiries within the window of nine months, as set in the norms. Observing that the norms laid down way back in 2001 to complete inquiries within nine months have remained in cold storage, the court asked the government and all its instrumentalities to adhere to the timeline to complete inquires, including those entrusted to the Lokayukta, under the Karnataka Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeals) Rules. A Bench of Justice M. Nagaprasanna issued the direction while allowing a petition filed by B.S. Ramaswamy, who retired from the Mysuru Urban Development Department in 2012 but could not get any retirement benefits till now because of the pendency of a departmental inquiry since 2003. Any deviation from the timeline stipulated in the norms can only be for reasons recorded in writing, the court said. “This court notices with pain that in an umpteen number of cases, disciplinary proceedings are initiated by issuance of charge-sheet, but are not concluded within a reasonable time. The employee against whom the proceedings are pending is always kept on tenterhooks and denied service and terminal benefits that would become available to him but for the pendency and protraction of such proceedings,” thejudge observed. Also, the court noted that the government itself had, in 1997, come out with the norms, fixing a timeline for the completion of various stages of departmental inquiries and setting 21 months as the maximum period for completion of inquiry proceedings. The window was reduced to nine months in the norms revised in2001, and this was reiterated in 2020. In Ramaswamy’s case, the court noted that the departmental inquiry was initiated in 2003, the charges framed in 2005, the proceedings commenced in 2009, and concluded only in March 2018 — that too after a direction by the High Court in September 2017. The High Court noted that the petitioner had no role in the protraction of the inquiry. Another inquiry Interestingly, soon after the submission of the inquiry report in March 2018 exonerating the petitioner, MUDA initiated a de novo enquiry against him in June 2018, which the High Court has now set aside. The court also directed the government to release all his terminal benefits and notional promotions, if any, within 15 days from the receipt of the order while awarding a cost of Rs. 25,000 in the petitioner’s favour.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-castigated-over-protracted-probes/article33707236.ece
31 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Man dies after being pushed into well by his friend for fun||A 27-year-old man drowned after his friend pushed him into a well, allegedly for fun, while other people in the group recorded the incident on their phones. The alleged incident took place on Saturday at Tavarekere. One person has been arrested for murder, and five others were questioned by the police. “The victim, Lakshmikanth, did not know how to swim, and drowned. He was a resident of Hebbur and worked in an electronics showroom at Machohalli,” said a police officer. According to the police, the victim went to Tavarekere on Friday evening along with six of his friends. The next morning, they went to Thagachaguppe, on the outskirts of Bengaluru, and decided to bathe in an open well. Lakshmikanth's friend Balaram pushed him into the well while the rest of the group recorded it. It was only when Lakshmikanth started crying for help that they realised he was drowning. “They tried to rescue him but when they realised they couldn’t help him, five of the friends tried to flee from the spot. Meanwhile, Balaram approached some villagers for help, but it was too late,” said a police officer. Paramesh, a witness, informed the police that the group had arrived in a car and stopped at the well. “In his statement, he said they were sitting on the edge of the well for about half-an-hour before they started screaming for help. When he went to investigate, Paramesh saw Lakshmikanth stuck in silt,” said the police. Angry villagers caught four of the friends and handed them over to the police. A case of murder has been filed against Balaram, a resident of Gollarapalya who works as a cab driver.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-dies-after-being-pushed-into-well-by-his-friend-for-fun/article33707221.ece
31 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Student becomes a golden member of Siddi community||Kanchana Laxmi Siddi, 26, who hails from Chipgeri, a remote village in Yellapur taluk, Uttara Kannada district, made her community proud by clinching two gold medals at the Bangalore University’s 55th annual convocation on Saturday. Ms. Kanchana, who belongs to the Scheduled Tribes community, bagged the medals for Masters in Philosophy. She had earlier completed a law course. “I would like to give all credit to my mother, a single parent, who encouraged me to study. I want to pursue my PhD and then open an NGO to help tribal children access higher education,” she said. She also expressed hope that members from her community, will in time, break away from superstitious beliefs. “At the same time, I want to educate other people about the progress that people from my community have made,” she said. On Saturday, 56,172 students received their degrees during the convocation. As many as 319 gold medals and 90 cash prizes were awarded to 196 meritorious students, while 184 candidates received their PhD degrees. The ceremony Keeping in mind the COVID-19 situation, only gold medallists, prize winners and PhD awardees were invited for the ceremony. In his address, Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) chairman K. Sivan, who was the chief guest, urged students not to fear failure. Each failure should be treated as a valuable lesson, he said. K.R. Venugopal, Vice-Chancellor of the university, said that BU will offer new courses, including an M.Sc. in space science and space technology, M.Tech in aerospace, machine learning, and internet of things in the next academic year.  I would like to give all credit to my mother, a single parent, who encouraged me to study. Kanchana Laxmi Siddi Gold medallist||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/student-becomes-a-golden-member-of-siddi-community/article33707230.ece
31 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||SWR to run four MEMU trains from tomorrow||South Western Railways (SWR) will run four pairs of MEMU services from February 1. According to a press release, they are Bangarpet-Kuppam (06289); Kuppam-Bangarpet (06290); Krishnarajapuram-Kuppam (06291); Kuppam-KSR Bengaluru (06292) and KSR Bengaluru-Bangarpet (06293) and Bangarpet-Krishnarajapuram (06294). Trains will run six days a week except Sundays. Starting February 6, the Bangarpet to Banaswadi train (06297) will be operated weekly on Saturday. From February 7, Banaswadi-Bangarpet (06298) will run weekly on Sunday. The Banaswadi-Bangarpet train will have stoppages at Krishnarajapuram, Hoodi halt, Whitefield, Devangonthi, Malur, and Tyakal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/swr-to-run-four-memu-trains-from-tomorrow/article33707233.ece
31 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Two lithium battery plants to come up||Two lithium battery manufacturing plants will be started in the State with the objective of promoting e-vehicles and reducing air pollution, said Deputy Chief Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan here on Saturday. He launched an e-vehicle rally, organised by the Rotary Club, at the Vidhana Soudha. The State government had, in December last year, cleared an investment proposal of Elest Pvt. Ltd. (Rs. 14,255 crore) on 85 acres in Hubballi-Dharwad to establish an electric vehicle manufacturing unit. It also cleared an investment of Rs. 6,339 crore on 88 acres in Hubballi-Dharwad to set up units of lithium ion batteries, which are commonly used for electric vehicles. The government has also cleared an investment of Rs. 1,825 crore from Hyunet company in Bageppalli taluk of Chickballapur district for the establishment of a lithium battery and electric vehicles plant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-lithium-battery-plants-to-come-up/article33707237.ece
31 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Reduced fees: schools to ask for undertaking||With the State government announcing that parents have to pay only 70% of their children’s tuition fees for this academic year, a large number of school managements across the State have decided to make them sign an undertaking promising to pay the full amount if the Government Order is withdrawn. D. Shashi Kumar, general secretary of the Associated Managements of Primary and Secondary Schools in Karnataka, said those parents who have not yet paid the 2020-21 fees but have expressed willingness to do so will be asked to sign theundertaking. A Government Order on reduced fees was issued on Saturday. “We plan to challenge this in court in the coming week and have sent the GO for legal opinion. However, this may take time and we do not want school managements who are already in financial distress to wait till the issue is resolved,” said Mr. Kumar. Other associations, however, have accepted the government’s decision and will not be asking parents to sign any undertaking. Lokesh Talikatte, State unit president of the Recognised Unaided Private Schools’ Association, Karnataka, said schools have communicated that there would be a 30% waiver in tuition fees and many parents had stated that they would start making payments from Monday. “In my schools alone, only 60% of the parents have paid the fees over the past nine months. Soon after the government announced the decision, 5% of them came to the school on Saturday to pay the amount. Others completed the admission formalities for their children,” he said. Many parents had pulledtheir students out of private schools and admitted them in government schools citing financial distress. With the fee cuts, some are enrolling their children back in private schools. Meanwhile, on Saturday, the State government issued an order that in case parents have any dispute regarding fees, they can approach a committee that will be set up at the Deputy Director of Public Instruction in Bengaluru and the District Institute of Education and Training principals at the district level.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/reduced-fees-schools-to-ask-for-undertaking/article33707240.ece
31 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||All gram panchayats to get rooftop solar systems||A common reason cited in gram panchayat (GP) offices for delay in providing services is power cuts or low voltage electricity. To overcome this, the Rural Development and Panchayat Raj (RDPR) Department has commenced the process of installing rooftop solar systems in all 6,273 GP buildings across the State. Uninterrupted power supply through installation of rooftop solar units and high power inverter batteries would eliminate reasons for delay in services to rural people, sources in the department said. The cost of each solar unit is Rs. 4-5 lakh. Installation of solar units would not only ensure uninterrupted power supply but also ensure functioning of computers and regular delivery of services. The department, headed by Minster K.S. Eshwrappa, also plans to install rooftop solar units in taluk and zilla panchayat buildings to reduce dependence of electricity supplied by ESCOMS, sources said. Under the Centre’s Jal Jeevan Mission, a decision has also been taken to give drinking water supply to 23 lakh houses located in rural Karnataka in the next one year. Tenders have been called to execute the work with the support of private consultants, sources said. For implementation of solid waste management in 3,491 GPs, Rs. 199.46 crore had been released. An administrative approval for Rs. 821.4 crore has been obtained for implementing waste management in all GPs, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/all-gram-panchayats-to-get-rooftop-solar-systems/article33707242.ece
31 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||SGB available for purchase||Sovereign Gold Bond 2020-21, issued by the Reserve Bank, will be available for purchase in post offices from Monday for a period of five days. The office of the Chief Postmaster General, Karnataka Circle, in a release, said that purchasing SGB is free from the risk of holding physical gold as no one can steal or change its ownership. Investors will also be compensated with 2.75% per annum, payable semi-annually on the initial value of investment. The issue price on commencement will be notified by the RBI on its website, the release stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sgb-available-for-purchase/article33707234.ece
31 January 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Bank manager arrested for stealing Rs. 1 cr.||The Yelahanka police have arrested the manager of a bank who allegedly stole Rs. 1 crore in cash and handed the money over to his contact who promised to double it in a couple of hours. The accused has been identified as Arun Veetamallu, manager of the Rajarajeshwari Nagar branch of Bank of Baroda. Three others, including a bank attendant who did odd jobs, have been arrested. According to the police, Arun withdrew the cash from the bank’s currency chest located on Siddaiah Road. A few hours later, he returned to the bank, and asked his colleague to make an entry that the cash had been deposited back in the chest. He then left the office in a hurry. “His colleague refused to do so and asked where the money was. Arun cooked up a story of being robbed and also went to Chikkajala police to file a complaint,” said a police officer. The matter was brought to the notice of the bank’s regional manager Ritesh Kumar, who suspected that Arun had stolen the money. Based on the complaint, the police detained Arun, who allegedly confessed to the crime.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bank-manager-arrested-for-stealing-rs-1-cr/article33707231.ece
31 January 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Feeding zoo animals||The slaughter of buffaloes aged above 13 is allowed in the anti-cow slaughter law as the meat is required for people who eat beef and to feed animals in zoos, said Prabhu Chavan, Minister for Animal Husbandry. The Minister said the slaughter of buffaloes was allowed in the law that existed since 1964, though the age limit was 12 in the old law. “Now, the slaughtering of a buffalo is also not as easy. The veterinarians concerned have to issue certificates,” he added. Some zoos, such as the Mysuru one, have started feeding their big cats chicken because of scarcity of beef.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/feeding-zoo-animals/article33707239.ece
31 January 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Woman arrested for killing baby||Nuggehalli Police in Channarayapatna taluk have arrested a woman on charges of killing her two-year-old son in a fit of rage. Suma, 21, of Hullenahalli in Channarayapatna taluk, allegedly smashed her baby’s head against a wall as she could not stop him crying, on January 19. The police arrested her on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/woman-arrested-for-killing-baby/article33707636.ece
31 January 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Licence cancelled||Shivamogga Deputy Commissioner has cancelled the licence of S.S. Stone Crushers, located at Kallganguru in Shivamogga taluk, where a blast took place claiming six lives on January 21. Deputy Commissioner K.B. Shivakumar, who is also chairman of the District Stone Crushers Licensing and Regulation Authority, has issued the order cancelling the licence as per the Karnataka Stone Crushers Regulation Act 2011. The licence was issued on April 12, 2019. B.V. Sudhakar had the licence to set up the stone crushing unit on five acres of land located in survey number 2 of Kallganguru village.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/licence-cancelled/article33707241.ece
31 January 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Elevated corridor: Suggestions galore at stakeholders’ meet||The stakeholders’ meeting convened by the Dharwad district administration on the proposed Elevated Corridor Project at the landmark Kittur Chennamma Circle in Hubballi saw participation from various sections of the society with suggestions pouring in on making the project more user-friendly. At the meeting at Karnatak Chamber of Commerce and Industry (KCCI) in Hubballi on Friday evening, chaired by Deputy Commissioner Nitesh Patil, the participants expressed apprehension over wrong execution of the plan and appealed to the various government agencies to work in coordination and ensure minimum hardship for the general public and to try to save as many trees as possible. The elevated corridor at the busy Kittur Chennamma Circle in Hubballi is being taken up at an estimated cost of Rs. 298 crore. National Highways 63, 218 and old NH 4 converge at the junction. The project is also envisaged to reduce traffic congestion at the junction and to ensure smooth vehicular movement from the railway station to airport in Hubballi. Businessman and Congress leader Mahendra Singhi appealed to the administration to begin the work only after completing the land acquisition process. He said that many a times because of the delay in land acquisition due to legal hurdles leads to inordinate delays causing hardships to the general public. Architects from Institute of Architects including Anand Pandurangi and Sanjay Deshpande had come up with a plan suggesting modifications to the existing one . The Deputy Commissioner asked them to come to him with a modified plan after incorporating further details provided by National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) officials. While NHAI Assistant Executive Engineer R.K. Mathad mentioned that traffic congestion was bound to happen during the execution of the project, Police Commissioner Labhu Ram said that as the ring road connecting Vijayapura and Gadag roads to Bengaluru road was expected to be completed by March 31, it would mitigate the problem. The issue of whether to have a pillar flyover or portal flyover on the BRTS (Bus Rapid Transit Corridor) also came up for discussion. Krishna Bajpai, MD, HDBRTS, suggested a portal flyover as it would cause less damage to the existing bus corridor. The DC said the issue was being discussed with experts. Some participants urged the administration to take steps to ensure that the regular traffic was not affected during the execution of the project. BJP activist Umesh Dushi urged the administration to acquire land equally from either side of the roads and refrain from taking land from only side just because it is government land. He said that steps should be taken to retain the heritage premises of the historic Lamington High school and Chitaguppi Park. Several of the participants suggested the administration implement the project keeping in mind a development vision for the next few decades. HDMC Commissioner Suresh Itnal, MD of Hubballi Dharwad Smart City Ltd. Shakeel Ahmed, president of KCCI Vasanth Ladhad, former president Shankranna Munavalli and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/elevated-corridor-suggestions-galore-at-stakeholders-meet/article33707431.ece
31 January 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||1.3 acres to be acquired for the project||Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad Nitesh Patil has said that the government would acquire 1.3 acres of land for the Elevated Corridor project at Kittur Chennamma Circle in Hubballi and Rs. 25 crore had been set aside for the purpose. Speaking at the stakeholders meeting at the KCCI auditorium in Hubballi on Friday, Mr. Patil assured the participants that care would be taken to ensure that the general public did not face much difficulty during the execution of the project. He said that in the first phase, a four-lane flyover would be constructed on the road connecting Gadag and Vijayapura roads to Kittur Chennamma Circle. A 750 m elevated road would be constructed from Ambedkar Circle to the junction. In the same way, a 440 m elevated road would be constructed on Vijayapura road, he said. Regarding Hosur Circle, which is another junction facing the problem of congestion, the DC said that the officials of National Highway Authority (NHAI) had been given the suggestion of constructing a rotary flyover at the circle. On the 4 km stretch between K.C. Circle and Gabbur Cross, which has been left out in the elevated corridor project, Mr. Patil said that a flyover would be constructed at a total cost of Rs. 368 crore through funds mobilised from the Huballi Dharwad Urban Development Authority (HDUDA) and other grants.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/13-acres-to-be-acquired-for-the-project/article33707428.ece
31 January 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Labourers’ death: ‘Take action against officers’||Karnataka State Safai Karmachari Commission has ordered the Kalaburagi district administration to take serious and effective action against officers responsible for the death of two labourers – Lal Ahmed and Rasheed, who were forced to clean a manhole without protective gear and died by asphyxiation here on Thursday. Commission chairman M. Shivanna, after inspecting the spot at Kailash Nagar, addressing presspersons on Saturday took officials of Karnataka Urban Water Supply and Drainage Board (KUWSDB) to task for asking the labourers to enter manhole, though manual scavenging is banned. “The Employment of Manual Scavengers and Construction of Dry Latrines (Prohibition) Act of 1993 and the Prohibition of Employment as Manual Scavengers and their Rehabilitation Act of 2013 prohibit hazardous manual cleaning of sewer and septic tanks,” he said. The board has outsourced maintenance to a private agency. Though manual scavenging is prohibited, the contractor has forced the labourers to enter a 20-feet-deep manhole to clean the sewer as it was blocked. Mr. Shivanna called for immediate arrest of the contractor. He also visited the victims’ homes and ensured Rs. 10 lakh as compensation to each of the victim’s families. At present, Rs. 5 lakh has been extended to them. He also directed the district authorities to ensure that minor children of the victims are provided free education and jobs are given to the wives.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/labourers-death-take-action-against-officers/article33707432.ece
31 January 2021||Kalaburagi,KARNATAKA||Commission to seek survey of safai karmacharis||M. Shivanna, chairman, Karnataka State Safai Karmachari Commission, said the commission would submit a proposal to the government for a survey to get the exact number of Safai Karmacharis, including manual scavengers, in the State. Addressing presspersons here on Saturday, he said the commission has data of pourakarmikas and safai karmacharis in ULBs, but has to conduct a survey to know the exact numberin industries, ITBTs and private companies. It has directed the DCs to form district-level monitoring and vigilance committees to end manual scavenging across the State. The district-level committee shall meet once in three months, he added. So far, Karnataka has seen 83 cases of workers dying in manholes and sewer lines but no one has ever been punished for the deaths. Even when someone is named as an accused it is often the contractor. It is the duty of officials to ensure that safety measures were taken and rules are followed by the contractor. As per the survey reports of the National Law school of India University, only 4% of safai karmacharis in the State received the benefits of government welfare schemes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/commission-to-seek-survey-of-safai-karmacharis/article33707433.ece
31 January 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Four more heavy vehicle driver training institutes, says Savadi||Deputy Chief Minister and Transport Minister Laxman Savadi on Saturday said the Transport Department will open four more heavy vehicle driver training institutes in the State this year. Inaugurating the State’s third such institute at Kamblapadavu near Mudipu here, Mr. Savadi said one institute at Holalkere in Chitradurga district will be inaugurated soon after the Legislature session. Responding positively to area MLA U.T. Khader’s demand to provide training in light motor vehicle driving too at Kamblapadavu, Mr. Savadi said it should not be a problem since the infrastructure was in place. Training in LMV driving too will be offered in the coming days, he announced. The Minister said regular training for heavy vehicle drivers was essential since heavy vehicles were responsible for majority of road accidents in the State and gave examples of the death of his relative as well as another accident involving himself caused by heavy vehicles. Everyone should respect laws and regular training as well as refresher courses help drivers to drive safe on roads, Mr. Savadi said. Referring to Mr. Khader’s demand to open the office of an ARTO in his constituency, Mr. Savadi said it was not possible immediately. The department was already facing staff crunch. New cadre and recruitment policy was being formed in view of the amended Motor Vehicles Act. Only after the new C & R rules were framed and adequate staff were recruited, opening of an ARTO would be considered, he said. In his introductory address, Transport Commissioner N. Shivakumar said the first heavy vehicle driver training institute was opened in Bengaluru followed by Dharwad in 2016. The institutes have so far trained over 1.09 lakh and 1.46 lakh drivers respectively. The Kambalapadavu facility in Mangaluru was spread over 5.5 acres of land out of 10 acres allotted to the department. An administrative office, a workshop, a staff quarters and a canteen, besides the test track were built at a cost of Rs. 15 crore, Mr. Shivakumar said. The facility is spread over 55,509 sft area, he added. District in-charge Minister Kota Srinivas Poojari, Minister for Ports and Fisheries S. Angara, zilla panchayat president Meenakshi Shanthigod, Additional Transport Commissioner Narendra Holkar, Joint Transport Commissioner Gayathridevi, and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/four-more-heavy-vehicle-driver-training-institutes-says-savadi/article33707619.ece
31 January 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Hallige Nadeyiri Jilladhikarigale’ pilot receives good response in Udupi district||The pilot of the ‘Hallige Nadeyiri Jilladhikarigale; programme in Udupi district witnessed good response on Saturday with the administration receiving 147 applications in Nalkur village with some of them getting addressed on the spot. Deputy Commissioner G. Jagadeesha led officials to the village for the pilot programme that would be emulated elsewhere in the State from next month. Beginning his visit from the government high school in Nalkur, Mr. Jagadeesha interacted with students and teachers before planting fruit-bearing tree saplings. He interacted with SSLC students and coaxed them to face the examination without any fear. Arriving at the meeting facility, the team received 94 applications on the spot in addition to the 53 received earlier. Disposing of applications that could be addressed on the spot, Mr. Jagadeesha directed officials concerned to resolve issues involving land grant, diversion of deemed forest land, reserve forest land etc, in a time-bound manner. He directed the tahsildar for khata transfer owing to the death of the family head upon obtaining the family tree on the spot. Eighty-year-old ex-serviceman Sridhar Nayak grieved that Revenue authorities did not provide him title deed for 8 acres of land allotted by the government two decades ago in Kudi village. Mr. Jagadeesha told his son Ambarish, who wanted to raise a cashew plantation on the land by borrowing loan, that the Assistant Commissioner would soon hear the case and resolve the issue.  Nalkur villagers also urged the DC not to sanction permit for the third stone crusher in the village that was already affected by the existing two. Mr. Jagadeesha said if the application was in order, he has to sanction it. However, if the village had no bearing capacity, he would reject it, the DC said. Later, Mr. Jagadeesha visited the health centre and inspected the facilities available. The DC said he would submit a report on the outcome of the pilot programme to the government that forms the basis for similar programmes across the State every third Saturday of the month. Zilla panchayat member Prathap Hegde Marali, Additional DC B. Sadashiva Prabhu, Assistant Commissioner K. Raju, Deputy Director of Land Records Ravindra, Brahmavara tahsildar Kiran Gowraiah, and others were present. RTCs for Kudubis Mr. Jagadeesha on Saturday directed Brahmavar Tahsildar Kiran Gowraiah to arrange to provide record of tenancy rights (RTC) to 35 families belonging to Kudubi community in Nalkur village. Members of those families told the DC that though they had inherited land from their elders, they do not have RTCs for them. Mr. Gowraiah assured that he would spend a day with those families shortly and arrange to provide RTCs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hallige-nadeyiri-jilladhikarigale-pilot-receives-good-response-in-udupi-district/article33707621.ece
31 January 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Udupi CMC will build new STP at Nittur’||President of the Udupi City Municipal Council Sumithra Nayak said on Saturday that a new sewage treatment plant (STP) will be built at Nittur as the existing STP which is in dilapidated condition is beyond repair. Speaking at the general meeting of the council in Udupi, she said that a detailed project report for constructing the new STP will be prepared by spending Rs. 25 lakh from the municipality. Raising the issue of sewage, Kodavoor ward councilor Vijay Kodavoor said that Indrani rivulet is polluted due to flow of sewage in it. The foul smell emanating from it especially near Kalmady is unbearable, he said, adding that the officials should take steps to prevent discharge of sewage into the rivulet. The president took officials to task for the slow pace of underground drainage works at Nittur ward. People in Nittur are venting their ire over the municipality for the inconvenience they are facing with uncompleted UGD project. Nittur ward councillor Santhosh said that the contractor who won the bid for taking up the project is not showing interest to complete the work in a time-bound manner. K. Raghupathi Bhat, MLA, said contractors with experience and a good track record only should be given the job of UGD works.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/udupi-cmc-will-build-new-stp-at-nittur/article33707630.ece
31 January 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Coast Guard distributes grocery items to orphanage||Coast Guard personnel distributed grocery items, including daily essentials, stationery items, and the like, to Snehadeep orphanage at Bejai-Kapikad here on Saturday. It was to commemorate the 45th Indian Coast Guard Raising Day which is on February 1. The personnel of the Coast Guard ship Savitribai Phule distributed the items in co-ordination with the Karnataka headquarters of the Coast Guard here, a coast guard release said. Snehadeep takes care of 26 girls, the release said. The Commanding Officer of Savitribai Phule addressed the children on the occasion and the officers interacted with them. The Coast Guard has been organising several activities and events every year to commemorate the day. All Coast Guard events aim to spread messages of social harmony, brotherhood and unity among the local people, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/coast-guard-distributes-grocery-items-to-orphanage/article33707625.ece
31 January 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Cybercrime police book case over spread of hate messages||The Mangaluru Cybercrime Police have registered a case against unknown persons for attempts to create hatred between communities through social media. Police Commissioner N. Shashi Kumar in a statement said it was found that certain provocative messages were being circulated on social media that could create tension. All those involved in such activities would be dealt with firmly as per law. Individuals using fake profiles to spread hate messages with anonymity would also be made criminally liable for such acts, Mr. Kumar said. The cybercrime police FIR said the account ‘Taantre Baa Taant’ was found. An edited video with the caption ‘Nee Taantre Naa Taant’ (If you attack me, I’ll retaliate) was being circulated on YouTube.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cybercrime-police-book-case-over-spread-of-hate-messages/article33707616.ece
31 January 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Maharashtra govt. is a house divided’||Deputy Chief Minister and Transport Minister Laxman Savadi said here on Saturday that the Maharashtra government is a house divided and hence its Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has spoken on border dispute to divert the attention of people. Speaking to presspersons after his visit to the district BJP office, Mr. Savadi said that there is no coordination among the partners of the alliance government in Maharashtra. Hence the Chief Minister chose to speak on border issue stating that Belagavi, Nippani, and Karwar should belong to Maharashtra. “I condemn the Chief Minister’s statement.” Mr. Savadi said that Mumbai has enough Kannada speakers people from north Karnataka and the coastal belt of the State. If going by the argument of Maharashtra then it might have to hand over Mumbai to Karnataka. The Minister said that Belagavi is an integral part of Karnataka.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/maharashtra-govt-is-a-house-divided/article33707628.ece
31 January 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Briefly||Mangaluru City North MLA Y. Bharat Shetty inaugurated Bandottu-Gandhiji Road which has been upgraded as the concrete road in Kadri B Padavu ward on Saturday. The road has been laid at a cost of Rs. 25.5 lakh. The fund for the road project has been drawn from the MLA’s Area Development Fund, a release said.       J.P. Gangadhara has taken charge as the Regional Transport Officer, Udupi. Earlier he was the Assistant Regional Transport Officer and got promoted.    The service road of national highway 66 in Udupi on the left side of Mangaluru-Kundapura highway has been closed for traffic till February 10 for taking up underground drinage pipeline work. The traffic has been allowed on the right side service road, said a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/briefly/article33707623.ece
31 January 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Gold seized at airport||Customs officials at Mangaluru International Airport on Saturday seized 0.587 kg of smuggled gold valued at approximately Rs. 30 lakh from a passenger who was arrested later.A release said that based on intelligence inputs and surveillance the officials intercepted Mashkoor Kallar hailing from Kasargod, Kerala after he arrived from Dubai by Air India flight IX 1814. He was arrested under relevant provisions of the Customs Act by the Deputy Commissioner of the airport customs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/gold-seized-at-airport/article33707627.ece
31 January 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Five doctors test positive||Five doctors in Chamarajanagar near here have tested positive for COVID-19 even after receiving their first dose of vaccine. Out of the seven doctors who had tested positive during the last three to four days, five had taken their first dose of vaccination about a week ago, confirmed health officials. While three doctors had received a jab of Covaxin, the other two had been vaccinated with Covishield. One doctor, who tested positive, is the COVID-19 nodal officer of Chamarajanagar district, while two are from Chamarajanagar Institute of Medical Sciences (CIMS) and two others are from Chamarajanagar District Hospital. Their vaccinations were scheduled on different dates between January 18 and 20. However, the doctors experienced mild symptoms of COVID-19 within days after receiving vaccinations and underwent a test in two to three days only to return positive. Four of the five doctors are in home isolation while one is in the hospital as the doctor has a child at home Chamarajanagar District Health Officer M.C. Ravi confirmed that five doctors, who had received vaccinations, had tested positive, but hastened to add that “it would be incorrect to say that they had tested positive because of receiving the vaccination”. “Also, the vaccine will take its own time ranging anywhere between four to six weeks to develop antibodies. The doctors may have taken vaccination when the virus was in incubation period. Some of them showed symptoms the very next day and others showed after two or three days”, Dr. Ravi said. “Some of the doctors, who had tested positive, were working in the same unit in the same hospital”. The doctors testing positive had received the vaccination on different dates and showed symptoms on different dates. The turn of the two other doctors, who had tested positive, for receiving vaccination had not yet come. The second dose of the vaccine is given four weeks after the first dose, said Dr. Ravi while pointing out that it took about four to six weeks after the first dose for the antibodies to develop. However, he said the symptoms of all the doctors, who had tested positive, are mild. “They are all fine. There is nothing to worry.” But, he cautioned people against complacency over the guidelines for COVID-19 following the arrival of vaccine. Contending that people in the general population may be asymptomatic and yet carry the virus, he said social distancing, wearing of masks and washing of hands should be strictly followed to keep COVID-19 at bay.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/five-doctors-test-positive/article33707442.ece
31 January 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||UoM to offer 4-year BSc Ed course||The National Council for Teacher Education (NCTE), New Delhi, has given its nod to the University of Mysore (UoM) to introduce a four-year B.Sc Ed integrated course from the next academic year. The course is akin to the one offered by the Regional Institute of Education (RIE) in Mysuru, which is affiliated to the UoM. However, the University has proposed to design a syllabus for the course looking into various factors and developments in teacher education. Vice-Chancellor G. Hemantha Kumar told The Hindu that the University is planning to run the course at the Yuvaraja’s College, Mysuru, the University’s constituent college. The course may commence from October this year. The University had applied to the NCTE to cater to the demand for producing science teachers offering the course with a combination of science and education subjects studied in a span of four years. “This is almost similar to the course offered at the RIE Mysuru,” said Prof. Kumar, who is in the governing council member of RIE, Mysuru. The NCTE’s expert team had inspected the University and verified its documents on the course. “Whoever is keen to become a teacher, will join the course soon after the second PU. The course will initially have 50 seats and we hope to increase the intake after running the course for a few years,” he said, adding the candidates completing this course have better placement opportunities as teachers in science subjects. The University was focusing on introducing professional courses in the coming years with emphasis on the job market. It is starting an engineering college soon and the University is seeking nod from the All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE). “We are hoping to start the course from the next academic year provided we get the AICTE approval by then,” he replied. The University is planning to build another campus on the foothills of Chamundi here where it has a 20-acre plot. There are plans to build the engineering college there along with the school for management and other facilities. “We also have plans to start courses in pharmacy. Once we finalise the courses by next year, we will go for the accreditation and approval process,” he said. In reply to a question, Prof. Kumar said whoever completes courses from this university has a better chance of getting employed. Therefore, efforts are being made to introduce courses that could offer jobs immediately.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/uom-to-offer-4-year-bsc-ed-course/article33707643.ece
31 January 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Doctor couple assaulted||Senior radiologist Keshav Raichurkar and his wife Krishnakumari, who were seriously injured in a brutal assault on them at their residence on Thursday night, are recovering at a private hospital in Mysuru. An unidentified assailant, wearing a mask and a helmet, entered their house in Vijaynagar 2nd Stage on Thursday night and physically assaulted the elderly doctor couple and took away valuables from the house. Dr. Raichurkar and Dr. Krishnakumari, who run the Excel Prime Diagnostic Centre in Saraswathipuram, are undergoing treatment at a private hospital in the city. While Dr. Krishnakumari had been shifted from the ICU to the ward, Dr. Raichurkar is still in the ICU, according to sources close to the family. Special team The city police has constituted a special team to trace the assailant, who had left Dr. Krishnakumari seriously injured in the head and Dr. Raichurkar profusely bleeding from the stab injuries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/doctor-couple-assaulted/article33707638.ece
31 January 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Protests against farm laws continue in Mysuru||The farmers’ protest against the Centre and seeking the abrogation of 3 farm laws continued in Mysuru on Saturday. While one group of farmers was led by Kurubur Shanthakumar of Karnataka State Sugarcane Growers Association, the other group comprised members of Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha, Hasiru Sene and Dalit Sangharsh Samithi. The farmers led by Mr. Shanthakumar blindfolded themselves in front of the Gandhi statue opposite the court complex and sat on a dharna to draw attention to what they called the conspiracy of the government to break the farmers’ agitation. They held placards condemning the government and sought the repealing of the farm laws which, the Association said, were inimical to the welfare of the farmers. Before sitting on the dharna Mr. Shanthakumar said the farmers were observing Martyrs Day as “Ahimsa Diwas’’ to reiterate the peaceful nature of their protest. He said the violence which unfolded in Delhi was a conspiracy of the government to defame the farmers and break their unity. Condemning the police actionin Delhi, Mr. Shanthakumar said if this policy of the government persisted then the entire farming community across the country would be forced to descend on the streets for a satyagraha. He also sought a judicial inquiry into the violence in Delhi on January 26 and said the failure of the government to prevent it has to be investigated. The KRRS, Hasiru Sene and the DSS who held a parallel protest said that the three laws have to be repealed. Similarly, the State Government in Karnataka had passed a series of laws which too was against the farmers and had to be repealed. These include the Karnataka Land Reforms (2nd Amendment) Act 2020 which paves way for non-farmers to buy agricultural land for non-agricultural purposes. APMC (Amendment) Act 2020 which paves way for selling agricultural produce outside the APMC ambit and the Karnataka Industries (Facilitation) Act 2020 which allows for purchase of agricultural land for industrial purposes. The farmers said all these will have a negative repercussion on agriculture.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/protests-against-farm-laws-continue-in-mysuru/article33707640.ece
31 January 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||UoM’s 101st convocation in April?||The University of Mysore is now gearing for its 101st annual convocation which is expected to be held either in March or April. Last year, the University conducted its historic 100th convocation which was virtually addressed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Though the University wanted to have the historic convocation in March/April last year, the COVID-19 pandemic delayed its plan and the convocation was finally organised on October 19, 2020, after taking all safety precautions in view of the pandemic. Vice-Chancellor G. Hemantha Kumar on Friday told the Syndicate meeting about the 101st convocation and accordingly sought its nod to go ahead with the preparations. “We will be deciding soon about the chief guest and other arrangements soon,” he told The Hindu . PhD entrance exam The results of the PhD entrance examination conducted in November last year were announced on Friday. They are available athttp://www.uni-mysore. ac.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/uoms-101st-convocation-in-april/article33707637.ece
31 January 2021||MYSURU/BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Drone deployed for aerial surveillance over Baby Betta||Amid growing concerns over illegal quarrying, the authorities in Mandya district have deployed a drone over Baby Betta and its surrounding areas in Pandavapura taluk to check illegal quarrying activities through aerial surveillance. The Department of Mines and Geology, Mandya, deployed a drone for aerial surveillance after the Assistant Commissioner of Pandavapura taluk B.C. Shivanandamurthy issued orders earlier this week banning all types of mining and stone crushing activities in Baby Betta and its surrounding areas for the next two months. “The Police Department has provided its drone to the Department of Mines and Geology to monitor illegal quarrying activities in Baby Betta and surrounding areas,” Superintendent of Mandya district police Parashurama K. told The Hindu . The aerial surveillance will continue till the ban is in force, he said. According to an order issued on January 25, the Assistant Commissioner of Pandavapura, who is also the taluk magistrate, banned all types of mining and stone crushing activities in several villages in and around Baby Betta in Pandavapura till March 24, 2021. Illegal quarrying here had become a source of major concern after the recent blast of an explosive-laden truck in Shivamogga. Rampant mining activities in the area had also been blamed by the Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre (KSNDMC) for the tremors experienced by the KRS dam nearby. For, in September 2018, the seismic monitoring station at KRS had recorded two “signatures” coming from a radial distance of around 10.5 km, which is around the same radial distance at which the quarrying area of Baby Betta is located. In the wake of the Shivamogga blast, various organisations had called for a halt to the quarrying activities in the ecologically sensitive Baby Betta area, fearing a threat to the 80-year KRS reservoir, which is the lifeline of the people of several parts of Karnataka and neighbouring Tamil Nadu. Meanwhile, Lokayukta P. Vishwanath Shetty has ordered Deputy Commissioner, Shivamogga district, to conduct an inquiry into illegal mining in the district, steps taken to prevent it and lapses thereof and submit a report in six weeks. Mr. Shetty has said in his order that an earlier report by the Mines and Geology Department on illegal mining in the district showed the particular mine where the blast occurred killing many was also booked and if mining operations were stopped at the mine after the criminal case, the accident could have been prevented. However, he said he would not launch a probe into the incident as the State government had already ordered a probe, but would inquire into illegal mining in the district and ordered the Deputy Commissioner to submit the investigation report.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/drone-deployed-for-aerial-surveillance-over-baby-betta/article33707244.ece
31 January 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Govt. to build houses for slum-dwellers||Mahesh Kumathalli, MLA and Chairman of Slum Development Board, has said that the government has aimed to take on overall development work for slum-dwellers in the State. He was speaking after distributing land right records to slum dwellers in Raichur on Saturday. He said 2,274 slum dwellers, residing in 43 slums on 42 acres in Raichur, will get a separate house. “Our government has decided to take on development work for slum dwellers on top priority and therefore, tenders for construction of 97,000 houses have already been floated,” he said. R. Venkatesh Kumar, DC, said 2,274 houses will come up on 42 acres of land in Deodurg and Raichur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-to-build-houses-for-slum-dwellers/article33707434.ece
31 January 2021||January 31 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||5 vaccinated doctors test positive for COVID-19||Five doctors in Chamarajanagar have tested positive for COVID-19 even after receiving their first dose of vaccine. Out of the seven doctors, who had tested positive in Chamarajanagar during the last four days, five had taken their first dose of the vaccine about a week ago, confirmed health officials. While three doctors had received a jab of Covaxin, the other two had received Covishield. Their vaccinations were scheduled on different dates between January 18 and 20. The doctors experienced mild symptoms of COVID-19 within days of receiving the vaccine and underwent a test. Chamarajanagar District Health Officer M.C. Ravi, however, said, “It would be incorrect to say that they had tested positive because of the vaccination.” The vaccine will take anywhere from four to six weeks to develop antibodies. “The doctors may have taken the vaccine when the virus was in incubation period. Some of them showed symptoms the very next day and others after two or three days,” Dr. Ravi said. The second dose of the vaccine is given four weeks after the first dose, said Dr. Ravi, while pointing out that it takes a while after the first dose for antibodies to develop. He said the symptoms of all the doctors, who had tested positive, are mild. He cautioned people against complacency over the guidelines for COVID-19 following the arrival of the vaccine. V. Ravi, former senior professor and head of neurovirology at NIMHANS, concurred that vaccines cannot be the cause of infection if anyone gets COVID-19 after being vaccinated. There could be two possibilities on how they got infected. They may have already been infected and in the incubation period when vaccinated, thereby manifesting symptoms a few days later. Or, they may have got infected as they did not follow COVID-19 precautions, he said. “To check if their source of infection is common, we may have to do genetic sequencing,” he said. Pointing out that no vaccine provides 100% protection, Dr. V. Ravi said, “Immunogenicity develops in a vaccinated person 42 days after the first dose or 14 days after the second.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/5-vaccinated-doctors-test-positive-for-covid-19/article33707218.ece
31 January 2021||January 31 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||CM sets new deadlines for city works||Mr. Yediyurappa said: “I have now set a deadline of May 2021, to complete road improvement works on 32 roads.” Later, in the review meeting, he also advised civic agencies to wherever possible retain footpaths. The proposal to develop three large tree parks and converting NGEF and Mysore Lamps lands into lung spaces was given top priority at the meeting. ‘Constitute trust’ The Chief Minister asked officials to constitute a Bengaluru Environment and Heritage Trust, a public trust to oversee the implementation of the ‘Experience Bengaluru’ project, that will turn the NGEF and Mysore Lamps lands into public spaces. Turahalli Tree Park (400 acres) will be thrown open to the public in April 2021, Kadugodi (102 acres) in May 2021 and Machohalli (98 acres) in June 2021, officials informed the Chief Minister. New skywalk? During the Chief Minister’s inspection of cycle tracks on Race Course Road, students of Government Ramnarayan Chellaram College of Commerce and Management appealed to Mr. Yediyurappa to build a skywalk at the junction to help them cross the busy road easily. Mr. Yediyurappa immediately asked senior civic officials to consider the request and plan for a skywalk at the junction.  Campaign for footpaths Citizens for Bengaluru (CfB) launched a campaign to highlight the sorry state of pedestrian footpaths in the city by conducting a tweetathon during the Chief Minister’s city rounds. Several users posted pictures of footpaths dug up and encroached. “We want to highlight the terribly encroached footpaths and utter lack of coordination within Bengaluru government agencies. This causes grave danger and inconvenience to pedestrians, and shows that walking, which is the biggest form of transport gets least attention in a city with high pedestrian fatalities,” Tara Krishnswamy of CfB said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cm-sets-new-deadlines-for-city-works/article33707224.ece
31 January 2021||January 31 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||AITUC centenary today||Centenary celebrations and 10th Bengaluru district conference of All India Trade Union Congress (AITUC), Bengaluru District Committee, will be held on January 31. AITUC, in a release, said that the conference will discuss important issues of the working class, including reservation for workers in housing schemes of BDA and KHB, free COVID-19 vaccine, plans to protest against rise in prices of fuel and essential commodities, anti-worker labour legislations, support for the farmers’ agitation. Over 250 representatives will deliberate on these issues in the conference, the release said. H. Mahadevan (working president, AITUC), Babu Mathew (professor, NLSIU), Siddangouda Patil (editor, Hosathu magazine), H.V. Ananthsubba Rao (president, AITUC Karnataka) and G. Babu (secretary, CPI Bangalore District Committee) will participate in the conference. The event will be held at Badaganadu Bhavan, Sampige Road, Malleswaram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/aituc-centenary-today/article33707217.ece
31 January 2021||January 31 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||No COVID-19 vaccination for next four days||With the State all set to administer Pulse Polio vaccine to a targeted 64,07,930 children below the age of five starting January 31, COVID-19 vaccination will be suspended for the next four days in both government and private hospitals. A total of 3,13,639 of the targeted 6,11,907 healthcare workers have been vaccinated in Karnataka so far, taking the overall coverage to 51%. On Saturday, the 15th day after vaccination, the State achieved a coverage of 38% with 7,452 of the day’s targeted 19,647 persons coming forward to take the jab. On Saturday, vaccination was not held in Ballari, Chamarajanagar, Chickballapur, Chikkamagaluru, Dakshina Kannada, Davangere, Haveri, Uttara Kannada, Vijayapura, and Yadgir districts. While Shivamogga recorded the highest coverage (93%), Ramanagaram recorded the lowest coverage (7%). At least seven districts recorded a coverage of 50% and above. Meanwhile, the State on Saturday reported 464 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total to 9,38,865. With two deaths, the toll rose to 12,213. This is apart from 19 deaths of patients due to non-COVID-19 reasons. As many as 547 persons were discharged on Saturday.  A total of 3,13,639 of the targeted 6,11,907 healthcare workers have been vaccinated in Karnataka so far,||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/no-covid-19-vaccination-for-next-four-days/article33707219.ece
31 January 2021||January 31 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Aero India 2021: Ban on aerial objects||Police Commissioner Kamal Pant on Saturday imposed a ban on the flying of ‘sub-conventional aerial platforms’ in and around the city ahead of Aero India 2021, which is set to begin on February 3. These include the flying of unmanned aerial vehicles, drones, paragliders, microlights, small aircraft and quad copters. The decision has been taken as these items may pose a danger to the international event. In the order, Mr. Pant said that security measures have been put in place. The order will be in force from February 1 to February 8.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/aero-india-2021-ban-on-aerial-objects/article33707222.ece
31 January 2021||January 31 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Engagements||Mangaluru    Artkanara Trust, S-Cube Art Gallery: Exhibition of abstract art by 12 artists, Kodial Guthu, Centre for Art and Culture, Ballalbagh-Pattumudi Soudha-Kudroli Road, 11 a.m. Udupi  Transport Department: Deputy Chief Minister and Transport Minister Laxman Savadi inaugurates bus stand for KSRTC city buses, Udupi, 10.30 a.m. Kadaba  Dakshina Kannada Union of Working Journalists: Minister for Rural Development and Panchayatraj K. S. Eshwarappa inaugurates journalists’ village stay programme, S. Angara, Minister for Fisheries, Ports, Inland Transport inaugurates health check up camp, Deputy Commissioner K. V. Rajendra launches plastic free village drive, interaction with the Deputy Commissioner, government higher primary school, Kombaru; Kota Srinivasa Poojary, minister in-charge of Dakshina Kannada delivers valedictory address, Nalin Kumar Kateel, Member of Parliament, presides, 3 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/engagements/article33707626.ece
31 January 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Work on elevated cattle shed begins||The construction of the second multi-purpose elevated community cattle shed at Kuttanad has begun. The foundation stone of the structure, being constructed under the aegis of the Dairy Development Department on the land provided by the Champakulam Dairy Cooperative Society, was laid by Minister for Animal Husbandry and Dairy Development K. Raju on Saturday. Mr. Raju said that the State had attained self-sufficiency in milk production. “Milma is procuring milk by providing a good price to dairy farmers. With self-sufficiency in milk production achieved, the government has decided to start a milk-powder plant to process excess milk. The construction of the factory at Moorkanad in Malappuram district has already begun,” the Minister said.  Epidemic insurance He said that the epidemic insurance scheme for duck farmers announced in the State budget 2021-22 would be implemented in the next financial year. The four-storey elevated cattle shed with a total area of 6,316 sq ft will have facilities to keep 108 cattle at a time. The government has sanctioned Rs. 2.69 crore for the project. The Police Construction Corporation has been entrusted with building the structure. Mr. Raju said the State government was ready to give assistance to all dairy societies and individuals in the flood-prone areas of Kuttanad to construct elevated cattle sheds if they provided land. Earlier, the foundation stone for the construction of a three-storey elevated cattle shed was laid at Chempumpuram in October 2020. It is being built on land provided by the Chempumpuram Dairy Cooperative Society at a cost of Rs. 1.8 crore. Once completed, the shed, with a total area of 5,496 sq ft, will have facilities to keep 100 cattle at a time. Elevated cattle sheds are being constructed as a permanent solution to keep animals safe during floods. Farmers can shift their cattle to these sheds in case of a flood situation. The structures can also be used for other purposes. Champakulam block panchayat president Jincy Jolly presided. Veliyanad block panchayat president M.V. Viswambharan, Champakulam grama panchayat president T. Jalajakumari and others attended.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/work-on-elevated-cattle-shed-begins/article33707558.ece
31 January 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||White-topping for 12 km of PWD roads||Twelve km of Public Works Department (PWD) roads in Alappuzha town will be reconstructed using white-topping technology, Public Works Minister G. Sudhakaran has said. He was reviewing the construction of the Alappuzha Collectorate- Beach road using white-topping technology on Friday. Mr. Sudhakaran said that 21 PWD roads with a total length of 41 km in the town would be reconstructed. While 12 km of the PWD roads would be refurbished using white-topping, the rest of the roads would be built using bituminous macadam bituminous concrete (BMBC). An amount of Rs. 25 crore would be spent for white-topping, the Minister said. He said that apart from Alappuzha, white-topping technology was being used in road construction in Thiruvananthapuram and Kannur districts. The roads constructed using white-topping would have a lifespan of 30 years, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/white-topping-for-12-km-of-pwd-roads/article33707564.ece
31 January 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Resort owner, manager held||Two persons surrendered before the police on Saturday in connection with the death of a woman in an elephant attack at a private resort at Elambilery, near Meppadi, recently. The incident occurred when the woman was staying in a makeshift tent on the premises of the resort on January 23 night. Riyas, 27, at Cheeral and Suneer, 29, at Kuppady in the district surrendered before the Meppadi police on Saturday. Riyas is the owner and Suneer the manager of the private resort, the police said. They were absconding after the incident and later acquired an anticipatory bail from the District and Sessions Court here, the police said. They were arrested under Section 304(A), causing death by negligence, of the Indian Penal code and later granted bail.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/resort-owner-manager-held/article33707595.ece
31 January 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Caustic soda plant commissioned||The State government-owned Travancore Cochin Chemicals, (TCC) which made a remarkable comeback from the brink of being referred to the Board for Industrial and Financial Reconstruction (BIFR) in 2015-16, commissioned a 100-tonne-per-day caustic soda concentration plant and a 60-tonne-per-day HCL synthesis unit here on Saturday. Minister for Industries E.P. Jayarajan inaugurated the facilities. TCC was established in 1951 to manufacture caustic soda with a capacity of 20 tonnes per day (TPD). Production was later raised to 180 TPD, and the new 250-TPD plant is part of the first phase of expansion, said a communication from the company. The PSU posted a consolidated profit of over Rs. 100 crore during the 2016-17 - 2019-20 period on a consolidated turnover of Rs. 922 crore (excluding GST). The company also contributed Rs. 154 crore to the State exchequer by way of taxes and duties and provided employment to 90 persons during the period. Moreover, permission given by the government to use open access to draw power and to put up projects added momentum to the company’s growth. TCC has also initiated energy saving projects, including the conversion of the electrolysis cell and establishment of a new cooling tower. The company upgraded to digital control of the plant eliminating chances of human error as part of its commitment to safety. The plants commissioned on Saturday are unique from the perspective of energy conservation and environmental protection. The HCL synthesis unit with co-generation saves 2.5 KL of furnace oil a day. It is the first-of-its-kind plant in India, the communication added. Savings at current rates are estimated to be more than Rs. 1 lakh a day, and the payback period is less than three years. John Fernandez, MLA, TCC managing director K. Harikumar, chairman Mohammed Hanish and Eloor Municipal Chairman A.D. Sujil were present at the inauguration of the plants.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/caustic-soda-concentration-plant-opened/article33707535.ece
31 January 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Corpn. keen to build more smart roads||The Kochi Corporation is keen to convert arterial roads into smart roads with technical help from Cochin Smart Mission Limited (CSML). The project involves upgrading their quality and laying dedicated ducts to channel utility lines, Mayor M. Anilkumar said. “Smart roads is a good concept, as seen in [designed] roads being developed by CSML with amenities like scientifically-laid drains, footpaths, and ducts which can carry utility pipelines and cables. Double ducts are possible on wide roads like M.G. Road, with one duct carrying power cables and the other carrying utility lines,” he added. Arterial corridors like M.G. Road, S.A. Road and Kaloor-Kadavanthra Road can thus be upgraded to smart roads. Apart from improving the quality of the carriageway and allied infra, building dedicated ducts parallel to them will once and for all end the menace posed by dangerously-dangling overhead cables that are a threat to road users. The system will also do away with the need to dig up roads to lay utility lines or repair them. Erecting ‘smart poles’ is yet another way to address problems posed by dangling cables on narrow roads. Sound road infra and an efficient public transport system can usher in a qualitative change in the way people commute in Kochi, Mr. Anilkumar observed. CSML has its constraints in sourcing funds to upgrade all arterial roads to smart roads, since its ambit is restricted to a few corporation divisions. Still, projects can be implemented if funds of the corporation, Plan funds and Kochi Metro Rail Limited (KMRL) funds are put together, he said. The sole hiccup in transforming roads into smart roads is that water pipelines are laid afresh on many arterial roads under AMRUT and other schemes. Redirecting them to ducts will be a cumbersome and time-consuming, official sources said. CSML has already included the arterial Banerjee Road in the list of five key roads to be developed as smart roads. Work on the stretch will be taken up shortly, while upgradation of Abraham Madamakkal Road, Shanmugham Road, Park Avenue Road, and DH Road are in their final stage. All these roads will thus become smart roads, latest by mid-May, said Jafar Malik, Chief Executive Officer, CSML. “We can lend technical help to the Kochi Corporation but cannot take up upgradation of more roads, since many of them are beyond our ambit, and funds have not been earmarked,” Mr Malik added. Bund Road development It was decided on Saturday that the Greater Cochin Development Authority (GCDA), which owns the Chilavannoor Bund Road, and the Kochi Corporation will work together to hasten land acquisition and clear bottlenecks hampering the development of the key corridor that runs parallel to S.A. Road. “We will demand that the road be included in the list of road corridors which were mentioned in the recent State budget. On our part, we have agreed to lay utility duct along the GCDA-owned Kaloor-Kadavanthra Road,” Mr. Anilkumar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/corpn-keen-to-build-more-smart-roads/article33707530.ece
31 January 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Smothered Konothupuzha gasps for life||The Konothupuzha river does not seem to be able to catch a break. The waterbody, smothered by waste and weeds, is a victim of long delays that have prevented projects to revive it from taking off. Work on cleaning the 17-km-long waterbody began in August last year, and it witnessed an inauguration of sorts. But work came to a standstill a few weeks later, since funds had not been sanctioned, said an official of the Minor Irrigation Department. With a small amount that had been sanctioned for an excavator, work began on clearing some weeds, but the department is still awaiting additional funds, the official added. To cost Rs. 17 crore The project to clean and desilt the river, remove obstructions to the flow of water, and put up earthen bunds on either side is expected to cost Rs. 17 crore. Along with the reconstruction of two bridges, the total project estimate was around Rs. 20 crore, an amount that is yet to be sanctioned by the State government. The river will, however, get a regulator worth Rs. 23 crore soon, to keep saline water out, said an official of the Kerala Irrigation Infrastructure Development Corporation, which has taken up the project funded by Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB). Work on the regulator will begin in February and is to be completed in 18 months. The existing regulator has remained in shambles for years, and the salinity of water has destroyed rice fields along the river banks, said K.P. Varghese, secretary of Manakkunam Village Padasekhara Samrakshana Samiti, which had filed a petition with the National Green Tribunal (NGT) in 2017 on the sorry state of the river. “A regulator will only resolve part of the problems, he added. Unscientific construction of bridges along the river has obstructed the flow of water,” he added. Mr. Varghese was part of the team from the Kerala Sastra Sahithya Parishat (KSSP) that studied the river in 2006-07 and prepared a report. The river lies between the Champakkara canal and the Vembanad lake and runs through the Thripunithura Municipality and Chottanikkara, Mulanthuruthy, Udayamperoor and Amballoor grama panchayats. These local bodies had paid a total of Rs. 17 lakh for a survey to demarcate the boundary of the river. A revenue official said the survey along the boundaries to identify poramboke land and encroachments was under way. “The team of surveyors began work three months ago. But parts of the area have been inaccessible owing to the undergrowth,” the official added. In August last year, the NGT had ordered that a committee be formed with the District Collector, representatives of the State Pollution Control Board and officials of the municipality and grama panchayats, to come up with an action plan to deal with the pollution of the river. It was in accordance with this proposal that a decision was taken to begin with the survey first and fix the boundaries, said the Minor Irrigation Department official. Unfit for use The river, however, awaits redemption. The water, clogged with waste, is unfit for use, whether for drinking or for irrigation, leading to shortage of water in panchayats along the river, Mr. Varghese said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/konothupuzha-smothered-by-waste-and-weeds-awaits-revival/article33707521.ece
31 January 2021||Kochi,KERALA||New fisheries policy favours big capital, say fishers||With the deadline for submitting proposals on the National Fisheries Policy 2020 ending on Saturday, All Kerala Fishing Boat Operators Association, Kerala Swathanthra Matsya Thozhilali Federation, and the National Fish Workers Forum have written to the Union government, expressing apprehensions over the intentions of the government and the impact of the new regulations on the fishing sector. In their letter to the Joint Secretary, Fisheries, boat operators said the new regulations encouraged heavy private capital investment in the sector. The move will marginalise traditional fishers. “Instead of empowering traditional fishers who are highly skilled in deep sea fishing, the government wants private players to enter the scene. The move favours private capital,” said Joseph Xavier Kalappurakkal of All Kerala Fishing Boat Operators Association here on Saturday. Jackson Pollayil of Swathanthra Matsya Thozhilali Federation and Fish Workers Forum said though the Fishing Policy - 2020 largely depended on recommendations of various commissions appointed to study the sector, the government did not implement any of the recommendations that favoured traditional fishers. Foreign vessels He pointed to the S. Ayappan Committee report, which had recommended that no foreign vessels be allowed to exploit resources in India’s economic zone. The committee had recommended that the government help fishers through training and technical and financial help to fish in deep waters. However, the government now appears to be in favour of joint ventures between Indian and foreign companies, he said. Mr. Kalappurakkal said Chinese fishing vessels had been exploiting resources in Indian waters. “There are around 800 of them, and the government has not heeded to the pleas of fishers to take action against them,” he added. Fisher folk should be taken into confidence and their inalienable rights should be respected, the letter from boat operators maintained. The rights of traditional fishers cannot be sacrificed to allow new entrants to flourish in the field, it added. Meanwhile, boat owners felt that allowing fishers to market catch without middlemen was one of the key requirements of the sector. Even export-oriented fish does not fetch a decent price for fishers. Mr. Kalappurakkal also said that the policy draft was silent on the almost daily increase in the price of diesel and how it would affect the lives of fishers, who constituted the backbone of the coastal economy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-fisheries-policy-favours-big-capital-say-associations/article33707531.ece
31 January 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Startup Mission’s IEDC summit concludes||The fifth edition of the Innovation and Entrepreneurship Development Centres (IEDC) Summit 2021 organised by the Kerala Startup Mission (KSUM) came to a close on Saturday, expounding the idea that ingenious ideas came to the fore in times of crises. The student community should make maximum use of the startup-friendly policies propounded in the State Budget and also the programmes of the Central government, said Saji Gopinath, Vice Chancellor, Kerala University of Digital Science, Innovation and Technology. The summit was held in collaboration with the Adi Shankara Institute of Engineering and Technology in Kalady. Around 30 experts from various fields took part in the three-day virtual summit in which some 4,000 students and young entrepreneurs took part. The summit was conducted by using the VEMP app developed by students of Adi Shankara Institute of Engineering and Technology. KSUM’s new initiative SMILE (Startup Mentorship for Innovation, Learning and Entrepreneurship) was also launched during the summit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/iedc-summit-concludes/article33707511.ece
31 January 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Feasibility report on terminal submitted to Rlys||The Kerala Rail Development Corporation Limited (KRDCL) has submitted a feasibility report to the Southern Railway for the construction of an integrated coaching terminal. The project has been envisaged in approximately 110-acres of railway land in the Ponnurunni-Kathrikadavu area, by leasing out the land for a 99-year period. The report, which says that the project is technically and financially viable, was readied over three months. It was prepared in the light of inadequate capacity at the Ernakulam Junction railway station, causing trains to wait in the city suburbs for long to get the green signal. It has considerably slowed down train movement in central Kerala, besides hampering the introduction of new trains. Surveys ought to be done and a detailed project report (DPR) has to be readied, if the Railways accept the feasibility report. It will either be done by the Railways, or the task will be entrusted to KRDCL. The Railways’ response on the feasibility report is awaited in a month. A DPR, which holds the key to convincing funding agencies and investors, can be readied in three to four months, official sources said. Project cost The Railway Board and the Railway Land Development Authority (RLDA) had a year ago extended the lease tenure for such ventures which are executed with private participation, from 47 years to 99 years. According to the feasibility report, the project is expected to cost Rs. 1,654 crore, including Rs. 325 crore to develop platforms and allied infrastructure. Apart from borrowing funds, additional resources could be generated if two parcels of land in the area are let out for commercial use, including for building residential apartments. The DPR will cover aspects like traffic survey, a comprehensive look at the commercial potential of the area, demand for residential plots in the space, and the market rate of land.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/feasibility-report-on-terminal-submitted-to-rlys/article33707519.ece
31 January 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||District braces to tackle spurt in COVID-19 cases||In the wake of growing COVID-19 cases, the district will focus on doing more RT-PCR tests, and COVID-19 treatment facilities will be set up at eight more government health facilities, including six community health centres (CHCs). Inpatient treatment facilities for COVID-19 will be made available at the Thripunithura and Palluruthy taluk hospitals, and the Vengola, Pandappilly, Ramamangalam, Vadavucode, Kadayiruppu, and Malippuram CHCs. The decision was taken at a meeting of health officials and District Collector S. Suhas. For people who are recovering at home and might require a medical check-up, outpatient services for COVID-19 patients will be made available at five government hospitals – the Muvattupuzha General Hospital, the Aluva District Hospital, the Paravur and Fort Kochi taluk hospitals and the CIAL COVID-19 Apex Centre. Government and private hospitals and laboratories will be directed to prioritise RT-PCR tests over antigen testing. Considering the higher cost of an RT-PCR test, pool testing will be encouraged, where five samples are tested together. Awareness campaigns will be intensified, along with the deployment of police and sector magistrates to enforce COVID-19 protocol. Stringent restrictions will be enforced in containment zones. The COVID-19 protocol must be followed, unnecessary gatherings must be avoided and strict action would be taken against violators, the Collector said, according to a release. The district recorded 859 new COVID-19 cases on Saturday with 41 cases from Thrikkakara, 31 from Rayamangalam and 27 from Angamaly. Nine health workers and one police official tested positive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/district-braces-to-tackle-spurt-in-covid-19-cases/article33707528.ece
31 January 2021||Kochi,KERALA||HKS makes good money by sale of waste||Haritha Karma Sena (HKS) members in nearly 40 local bodies in Ernakulam engaged in collection and segregation of plastic and other non-biodegradable waste earned revenue to the tune of Rs. 2.1 lakh through sale of waste to the government’s Clean Kerala Company and private players in a special two-week drive that ended on January 26. The project assumed significance, as it was executed after Clean Kerala Company notified the base price per kilogram of segregated waste as per its type and classification. Private players had quoted higher rates than the base rate prescribed by the company, showing an increasing demand for segregated and cleaned-up waste in the recycling industry. Proper pricing Clean Kerala Company has notified the rates for each material to ensure transparency and adequate pricing for waste handed over by green workers. Senior officials of the Department of Local Self-Governments said milk covers earned Rs. 12 per kg for baled items and Rs. 10 a kg for non-baled products. The corresponding figures for high-density polyethylene waste are Rs. 17 and Rs. 15 respectively. Among the municipalities, Kothamangalam, Thrikkakara, and Muvattupuzha figure top in the list of civic bodies that collected the highest volume of segregated plastic and other non-biodegradable waste. HKS members in Kothamangalam received a cheque for Rs. 19,000 for handing over 7,000 kg of waste. Green volunteers in Thrikkakara earned Rs. 10,720 through the sale of nearly 1,700 kg of waste. HKS in Muvattupuzha earned Rs. 12,000 after providing 1,200 kg to a private player. Chottanikkara panchayat collected the highest volume of recyclable waste (2,314 kg). Active members of HKS in the civic body received Rs. 12,000. Green volunteers in Nedumbassery and Rayamangalam were in second and third positions, with a collection of 898 kg and 783 kg of waste respectively. The money earned by representatives in the two panchayats were Rs. 5,027 and Rs. 4,903 respectively. HKM district co-ordinator Sujith Karun said segregated waste was taken by vendors and companies for the recycling industry in the State and outside. “Plastic waste is turned into granules. It is in high demand, as it is used as raw material in the manufacture of plastic chairs, pots, and sheets,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hks-makes-good-money-by-sale-of-waste/article33707533.ece
31 January 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Local bodies told to give top priority to waste management||Around 60% of local bodies in Ernakulam that lag behind in implementing waste management systems need to gear up, as the government has made it clear that such proposals should be given top priority while envisaging annual projects for 2021-22. An order issued by the Department of Local Self-Governments on January 11 said civic bodies were responsible for scientific management and disposal of waste under the Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016. Mandatory Hence, local bodies will have to compulsorily take up waste management initiatives under their annual projects. Systems like material collection facilities, resource recovery facilities, source-level composting, and viability gap funding for Haritha Karma Sena members should figure in the project proposal of each local body in 2021-22, it said. Ernakulam has nearly 30 local bodies that have earned ‘clean’ status by initiating collection and disposal mechanisms. However, panchayats and municipalities that failed to take similar measures have to start plugging the gaps without delay. Civic bodies that got the clean status have to step up their efficiency score by ensuring the sustainability of projects undertaken in 2020. The Government Order recalled that the National Green Tribunal (NGT) had issued stringent directives for implementing the Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016 in all local bodies in the State. The officials responsible were pulled by the tribunal on various occasions for delay in realising goals. Dumping Besides initiating solid waste management proposals, local bodies will have to include projects to check dumping of untreated sewage / effluents in rivers and other waterbodies. The projects include installation of modern sewage treatment plants. Local bodies in a region could form clusters and set up joint projects to arrest pollution of waterbodies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/local-bodies-told-to-give-top-priority-to-waste-management/article33707536.ece
31 January 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Work on paying support price to farmers on||The formalities for payment of support price to farmers under a scheme declared on November 1 last year are in progress even as the Agriculture Department has recommended cowpea and snake gourd to be included for support price payment from January 1. In a first of its kind exercise in the country, the State had come out with support price for 16 agricultural produce that included tomato, snake gourd, cucumber, bitter gourd, cowpea, beans, beetroot, nendran banana, garlic, cabbage, carrot and okra. The department would bridge the gap between the support price and market price if the price of the produce is below the support level. The money would be paid from November 1 for those produce sold through markets under the Vegetable and Fruit Promotion Council Keralam. Farmers had been asked to register through the website aims.kerala.gov.in under the scheme and nendran banana farmers in the district were among the first to see the price of the produce fall below the support level of Rs. 30 a kg after the scheme was announced. The price of nendran fell below Rs. 30 a kg in November and December. An official said around 500 tonnes of nendran had been sold by registered farmers initially and that the process for payment of the support price was one. The official blamed the delay in payment of the support price to the delay in completion of the formalities. Registered farmers Initially, around 6,000 farmers in Ernakulam district had registered under the support price system. Their registered crops included banana, pineapple, and vegetables. Pineapple price fell to around Rs. 10 and Rs. 12 a kg in late November and December. The support price for the fruit is Rs. 15 a kg. A recommendation had been submitted to the government to pay support price for pineapple from January 1. The price of snake gourd and cow pea too fell below the support level earlier this month and the process for assessing the payments had been initiated. Aravindan, a farmer in Vengola, said he had registered with the department crops such as salad cucumber, cow pea, and snake gourd but had received prices above the support level.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/work-on-paying-support-price-to-farmers-on/article33707598.ece
31 January 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Panel to draw investments||Minister for Industries E.P. Jayarajan said here that a five-member committee, headed by the Industries Secretary, would be constituted to lead efforts by the State government to draw investments. Entrepreneurs coming forward to invest up to Rs. 100 crore in the State will be allowed to start operations within a week, the Minister said. Mr. Jayarajan said the government followed a policy of giving permanent employment to those who had worked for more than 10 years with public sector units on a temporary basis. Hibi Eden, MP, and John Fernandez, MLA, were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/panel-to-draw-investments/article33707534.ece
31 January 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Agri officers protest against pay revision||Agricultural officers in the State, under the aegis of the Association of Agricultural Officers, registered their protest on Saturday against the 11th Kerala Pay Revision Commission showing “disregard” for their work. Protest meetings were held across the State at all district headquarters, said a communication from the association here. The commission had ignored the professional parity maintained so far and that there was discontent among the officers. In the basic salary itself, when an agricultural officer completes 15 years of service, she or he will get Rs. 18,400 less than officers in other services but in the same post. The pay commission also displayed a “step-motherly attitude” towards agricultural officers when it came to career advancement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/agri-officers-protest-against-pay-panel/article33707524.ece
31 January 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Woman killed as car rams truck||A 43-year-old woman died on Saturday morning after the car in which she was travelling rammed a goods carrier near a private mall at Maradu. While Joemol was declared dead on arrival, her brother Sanjoe, 45, who was driving the car sustained injuries. The duo were proceeding to Chottanikkara to meet their relatives. They belong to Nellikunnu in Thrissur. The accident occurred around 7 a.m. Meanwhile, an autorickshaw driver who helped the victims reach a nearby hospital died after dropping them, reportedly due to cardiac arrest. Thampi, 54, a resident of Thekkumbagham in Thripunitura, had rushed the injured in his vehicle to the hospital. The police suspect that Sanjoe might have dozed off, resulting in the accident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/woman-killed-as-car-rams-truck-at-maradu/article33707537.ece
31 January 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Association office opened||The office of the Kerala Judicial Officers’ Association was inaugurated by Chief Justice S. Manikumar at the Kaloor court complex on Saturday. Judges of the Kerala High Court C. T. Ravikumar, A.M. Shaffique, K. Vinod Chandran, A. Hariprasad, and Ernakulam Principal District and Sessions Judge Kauser Edappagath, attended. Association president K. Baijunath and secretary V. Vinitha spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/association-office-opened/article33707522.ece
31 January 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Commodore Ayyar retires||R. Ramakrishna Ayyar, who as Commodore commanded the naval air station Garuda at the Southern Naval Command in Kochi when a massive rescue and relief operation was undertaken by the forces during the floods of 2018, retired after 33 years of service in the Navy. Vishisht Seva Medal He was serving as Group Commander of the NCC at the time of retirement. He was awarded Vishisht Seva Medal for his services during the floods. Commodore Ayyar hails from Cherpulassery, Palakkad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/commodore-ayyar-retires/article33707523.ece
31 January 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||New facilities at Traco Cable||E.P. Jayarajan, Minister for Industries, inaugurated a new office building and commissioned a set of new machinery at the public sector Traco Cable Limited unit at Irumbanam on Saturday. The Minister said the operations of Traco Cable would be expanded and that no interest would be levied on the financial help extended to the company. He said acquisition of land for the proposed electronics park at Amballoor would be intensified. Mr. Jayarajan said the problems facing the agricultural sector also affected the industrial sector in the State. Those who had completed 10 years of temporary service in PSUs would be made permanent employees, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-facilities-at-traco-cable/article33707525.ece
31 January 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Vijith has Maoist links: NIA||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) probing the Pantheerankavu Maoist case said on Saturday that the accused Vijith Vijayan was associated with a Maoist cadre who was killed in an encounter at Vythiri in 2019. The agency mentioned it in the report filed at the NIA Special Court here when Vijith was produced on expiry of his five-day custodial interrogation. The accused is alleged to have links with Jaleel, who was killed in an encounter at Vythiri on March 7, 2019. He also knew about various meetings organised by Jaleel in Kozhikode. The court remanded him in judicial custody till February 19. The case hit the limelight following the arrest of Alan Shuhaib and Thaha Fazal, students of Kannur University, for their alleged links with the Maoists.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vijith-has-maoist-links-nia/article33707593.ece
31 January 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||688 positive cases in Kollam||Kollam district reported 688 new cases of COVID-19 and 430 recoveries on Saturday. While 684 people contracted the disease through contact, others include one NRI, one health worker and two case with no known source. Cases with no known source have been reported from Yeroor while the health worker who contracted the infection is also a 35-year-old from Yeroor. The district currently has 11,979 people under observation and the total number of samples collected is 7,25,001. While 1.356 people completed home quarantine on Saturday, the Health Department has traced 1,61,316 primary and 14,106 secondary contacts of the positive cases. Pathanamthitta As many as 556 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Saturday. Of the fresh cases, 540 people contracted the disease through local contact and among these, the contact source of 37 cases were yet to be identified. Eraviperoor reported 32 cases, followed by Adoor and Thiruvalla with 26 cases each. The disease claimed three more lives in the district and the victims were identified as 66-year-old Pathanamthitta native, 23-year-old Pathanamthitta native and 69-year-old from Thumbaman. With 404 recoveries during the day, the district currently has 5,534 active cases. Alappuzha The district logged 526 COVID-19 cases on Saturday. It also recorded one COVID-19-related death. Of the fresh cases, as many as 510 patients contracted the disease through local transmission. Besides, the source of infection of nine people remains unknown. Six persons who came from abroad and one from another State also tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. Meanwhile, 394 people who were undergoing treatment for the disease in the district tested negative. The active COVID-19 caseload in the district stands at 4,708. Kottayam As many as 487 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kottayam on Saturday Of the fresh cases, all but three contracted the disease through local contact. The fresh cases also included 52 children and 114 persons aged above 60. With 73 cases, Kottayam municipality led the tally, followed by Ettumanur with 26 cases. With 1,415 recoveries during the day, the district currently has 6,033 active cases. ( With inputs from Pathanamthitta, Alappuzha, and Kottayam bureaus )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/688-positive-cases-in-kollam/article33707562.ece
31 January 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Now, cashew orchards resemble tea gardens||An intensive plantation drive carried out by various agencies during the last few years across Kerala has started reaping rich dividends. The model farms cultivated in different districts have made a visible increase in domestic annual RCN (raw cashew nut) production, a crucial step in attaining self-sufficiency. “During the last four to five years, the volume has grown from 35,000 tonnes to 85,000 tonnes. Next year, we are expecting it to hit one lakh tonnes and the goal is to produce enough RCN to keep the industry afloat. Despite all odds, there has been a considerable surge in production and it is a very positive trend,” says Kerala State Cashew Development Corporation (KSCDC) chairman S. Jayamohan. During the last four years, the Kerala State Agency for the expansion of Cashew Cultivation (KSACC) has distributed around 20 lakh high-yielding grafts while cashew cultivation has now spread to 96,650 hectares. These cashew orchards resemble tea gardens. From third year Though the grafts start flowering within a year, the flowers are removed in the first couple of years for maximising productivity. The plants will start yielding from the third year and hybrid varieties such as H-130 will provide over 1,000 kg of raw nut from one acre of land. “The plants will be very short compared to regular cashew nut trees and the expense needed for maintaining a cashew farm is very minimal compared to other crops,” says Shirish Kesavan, special officer (cashew) and chairman, KSACC. The agency has been promoting both normal and high-density plantations while the beneficiaries are provided all required guidelines. “In the high-density planting system, the grafts are placed closer, cultivating 400 grafts per hectare, and it comes down to 200 in normal density. Since the plants remain short, it will be very convenient for the framers to harvest the crop.” The crisis-hit cashew sector has been facing a serious threat from African countries that recently ventured into processing. Many factories in Kerala had to down their shutters owing to the scarcity of RCN and cashew farming is considered the only method to tide over the tough situation. Quality saplings “The KSCDC has cultivated several lakhs of quality saplings and distributed it among farmers as part of efforts to expand cashew farming. We have appointed staff in each district for the purpose and at present Kannur and Kasaragod are our production hubs. We are getting several enquiries about cashew farming of late and this year the demand for grafts has grown 10 times compared to 2020,” adds Mr. Jayamohan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/now-cashew-orchards-resemble-tea-gardens/article33707580.ece
31 January 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||KTDC hotel to be rebranded||The Kerala Tourism Development Corporation (KTDC) will transform Tamarind Easy Hotel, its economy property at Asramam, into a budget hotel. The property will be branded as Aqualand and will have 24 rooms with state-of-the-art amenities, multi-cuisine restaurant, an expansive lawn, and a conference hall. The property situated on the banks of Ashtamudi Lake was built in 1991 and the expected cost of renovation and rebranding is Rs. 5 crore. The total budget includes a grant of Rs. 2.9 crore from the State government also. KTDC chairman M. Vijayakumar will inaugurate the construction of the project on February 1. The event will be attended by Mayor Prasanna Earnest, Tourism Secretary Rani George, Tourism director Bala Kiran, and KTDC managing director V.R. Krishna Teja.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ktdc-hotel-to-be-rebranded/article33707559.ece
31 January 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Business meet held||NS Cooperative Hospital organised a business meet to discuss the growth and business diversification of various cooperative institutions in the district. Hospital president P. Rajendran inaugurated the meet and vice president M. Madhavan Pillai presided over the function. Secretaries and presidents of the 150 cooperative societies in Kollam attended the meet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/business-meet-held/article33707565.ece
31 January 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Literary award announced||Nisha Anilkumar’s novel Avadhoodanmarude Adayalangal has been selected for this year’s Thoppil Ravi Smaraka Sahitya Puraskaram. The award will be handed over on February 8. The work has been selected by a three-member jury including V.J. James, B. Murali, and Munjinadu Padmakumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/literary-award-announced/article33707581.ece
31 January 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Coastal movement of cargo from Feb. 16||The Kottayam Inland Container Depot (Kottayam Port) will begin coastal movement of cargo from February 16. A decision to this effect was taken in a meeting chaired by Kochi Port legal advisor Goutam Gupta at the Kottayam Port recently. As the coastal movement of domestic cargo does not require Customs clearance, Inland Container Depot (ICD) authorities are planning to operate one round-trip a day from the ICD. “Presently, around 1,000 containers are being brought from the Kochi port to different locations of Kottayam either by road or rail on a monthly basis. We hope to bring at least six containers a day to Kottayam via the ICD on a regular basis,” said K.N. Roopesh Babu, general manager, Kottayam Port. Additional barge According to him, the volume of container movement can be enhanced further within six months with the induction of an additional barge to the ICD fleet. As part of commencing the regular service, the 10 TEU barge under possession of the ICD has been dry-docked in Kochi. A second barge with a capacity to carry 28 TEU cargo is expected to join the fleet in six months. The ICD authorities also expect that the procedural formalities to elevate the dry port into minor Customs port will be completed in the meantime. Since the Kottayam Port, the first multimodal ICD using inland water navigation, has the potential to grow as a direct feeder point to the upcoming Vizhinjam port, the port is expected to play an important role in container movement from the Central Travancore region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/coastal-movement-of-cargo-from-feb-16/article33707569.ece
31 January 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Stress on opportunity creation in rural areas||India has been facing a tough challenge in creating decent jobs for its growing young population and the COVID-19-induced crisis has further aggravated the challenge, Jayan Jose Thomas, member, Kerala State Planning Board, and faculty at IIT, Delhi, has said. He was speaking at a web-colloquium on ‘Macroeconomic theory in the context of Budget 2021-22’ organised by the Inter University Centre for Social Science Research and Extension (IUCSSRE) in collaboration with the K.N. Raj Centre at Mahatma Gandhi University here on Wednesday. According to Mr. Thomas, the current crisis could be overcome only by creating new economic opportunities in India’s rural areas and by widening the sources of demand — that is, by raising the consumption of and investment for the poor and by setting up industries linked to food processing or affordable housing in rural areas. Demand base “The multiplier effects of such investments would be huge. Broadening the demand base requires policies that differ fundamentally from conventional economic ideas. The mainstream argument has been that firms should try to reduce costs by squeezing wages. Cutting wages will shrink markets further and deepen the crisis” he warned. Instead firms should assist in raising wages and incomes, and thereby, in enlarging the size of the markets. He emphasised the need for Kerala, which faced a slowing down in the growth of its working age population, to identify new sectors for its future growth that would be high on value addition and were based on modern technologies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/stress-on-opportunity-creation-in-rural-areas/article33707563.ece
31 January 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Gender Park gets ready to host international conference||The Gender Park campus at Vellimadukunnu is undergoing thorough cleaning and renovation work, in preparation for the second International Conference on Gender Equality (ICGE-II), which will be held here from February 11 to 13. Come February 27, it will be five years since the campus was opened by former President Pranab Mukherjee. But the State had put the Gender Park project on the back burner, until recently. “Serious financial crunch was the main reason why the State could not pay enough attention to the Gender Park so far. But now, it will change,” said Gender Park CEO P.T.M. Sunish. “To start with, it has revived the She Taxi project which did not go as it was initially envisaged. At present, we have 40 She Taxis in the State and more women are to join the fold soon,” he added. The ICGE-II is expected to be the next stage of the said change. An international convention centre, an amphitheatre, a gender museum and a gender library, part of the first phase of Gender Park, will be inaugurated on February 11. “While the latter two are the first of their kind in the country, UN Women setting up its South-Asian Hub on the Gender Park campus is the highlight among the forthcoming changes,” said K.K. Shylaja, Minister for Health, Social Justice and Woman and Child Development, here recently. The Gender Park has entered into an equal partnership contract with UN Women, which ensures the latter’s help and cooperation in all activities of the former. The office of UN Women will function from the International Trade and Research Centre for Women, the foundation of which will be laid by the Chief Minister during the ICGE. “The function of the Trade Centre is to equip women and transgender individuals to hone their entrepreneurial skills as well as to help them wade their way to success in the modern world. It is a Rs. 300-crore project,” said the Minister. The Gender Park was founded in 2013 as an autonomous body under the State government, aiming to contribute to gender discourse in the country. It was the ICGE-I organised by the Gender Park in Thiruvananthapuram in 2015 that led to Kerala’s transgender policy, which was a first for any Indian State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/gender-park-gets-ready-to-host-international-conference/article33707493.ece
31 January 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Rehabilitation process of street vendors on beach to be revived||The rehabilitation process of street vendors on Kozhikode beach, which was finalised just before the COVID-19 break out, may be revived soon as the beach has been reopened for the public and business is as usual for the street vendors. However, the elaborate process may take some time and effort, the initiative for which is lacking now in the corporation, as Secretary Binu Francis, who was keen on the project earlier, has been transferred. Licence for vendors The Street Vending Committee of Kozhikode Corporation had identified more than 100 street vendors who make a living selling various food items on Kozhikode beach during peak hours. The plan was to regularise the business by providing licences to them along with basic facilities under the aegis of the local body. Accordingly, the committee had issued them licences in January 2020. Further, the committee planned to give the same colour to all the bunks, to align them properly in a tiled part of the beach and to provide them with water and electricity. Shifting The carts that were on the roadside were shifted to the beach for the purpose. However, everything was suspended when beaches were closed owing to COVID-19. Councillor C.P. Sulaiman had brought up the issue at the Corporation Council meeting on Wednesday and questioned why the infrastructure development for the process was not carried out when the beach was vacant for around 8 months. The Secretary answered that the project would be implemented soon now that business was as usual on the beach. Rehabilitation and regularisation of street vending has been successfully implemented only on S.M.Street in the city, where around 90 vendors have been allotted spaces to carry out business in three shifts. Efforts are being made to do the same in the mofussil bus stand as well as the Palayam bus stand in the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rehabilitation-process-of-street-vendors-on-beach-to-be-revived/article33707505.ece
31 January 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Call for MVD drive against high-beam lights gets louder||The call by various passenger organisations and road safety forums to intensify checking against the misuse of high-beam headlights on national and State highways is yet to draw a positive response from the Motor Vehicles Department (MVD). After the MVD drive against cooling films and window curtains in vehicles ended midway following mass protests, many have demanded action against high-beam headlights. Social media users and members of various online automobile groups have started challenging MVD squads to expose erring drivers. They have said that such a drive across the State will help reduce late night accident deaths. Many regional transport offices in the State have high-end lux metres to check violations and initiate spot action. However, only very few squads are actively engaged in conducting night checks using the device. Functionaries of the Road Accident Action Forum said that about 33% of accidents that occurred during the night was directly linked to the misuse of high-beam lights. Many luxury vehicles were fitted with high-intensity discharge lights which could be easily tracked down as part of the road safety measures, they added. Of the 1,162 drivers caught for the misuse of high-beam lights in drives conducted last year, 217 were from Kozhikode. There were about 150 such offenders from Malappuram district. “There should also be a proper awareness drive on the part of the MVD on the sensible use of headlights. Out of ignorance, many are still using the dim and bright mode as pass lights against opposite vehicles, which may at times trouble drivers,” said Babu John, an inter-State taxi cab operator. When contacted, MVD officials said many local checking squads led by motor vehicle inspectors were on the field to check the misuse of high-beam lights as part of routine inspections. Special drives would be undertaken after getting instructions from higher authorities, they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/call-for-mvd-drive-against-high-beam-lights-gets-louder/article33707494.ece
31 January 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||NIT-C seeks funds for infrastructure development||The National Institute of Technology-Calicut (NITC) is seeking budget provisions for beefing up its infrastructure in the wake of the increasing number of students over the past few years. After the implementation of the scheme under the Higher Education Financing Agency (HEFA), the plan fund allocation for the institute has declined since 2017. (The HEFA is a joint venture of the Ministry of Education (MoE) and Canara Bank for financing creation of capital assets in premier educations such as IITs, IIITs, NITs, IISC and AIIMS). However, the institutes have to repay the principal amount of the loans secured via the HEFA while the MoE repays the interests. The system has been aimed at converting the institutes into top ranking institutions through improvement in their academic and infrastructure quality at the global level. Thus, most of the institutes depend heavily on their internal revenue sourced from research and development projects and consultancy to repay the principal amount. Officials said that the NIT-C, which arguably admits the largest number of students among the NITs in the country, also relies upon the internal revenue to better the infrastructure. In 2019-20, the institute received sponsored research projects of Rs. 7 crore. It also took proactive steps to collaborate with leading industries and government agencies for research, testing and consultancy. Consultancy assignments worth about Rs. 1 crore were taken up during last year, they said. The MoE, the sources said, had sanctioned Rs. 35 crore to set up a new academic block following the increase in the number of students admitted via the Economically Weaker Sections (EWS) category. Also, supernumerary seats had been created for female students to achieve their target of 20% in 2020. However, funds are required for the maintenance of the old hostels, purchasing state-of the-art equipment and setting up modern labs. There was also a proposal to set up an Internet of Things lab. A new library building has been completed and will start functioning on the new campus. Also, a mega hostel would be completed soon, officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nit-c-seeks-funds-for-infrastructure-development/article33707503.ece
31 January 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Syndicate clears postings of 36 lecturers||The Calicut University Syndicate has approved the appointment of 36 Assistant Professors to its various department, the interviews for which were held recently. According to the Deputy Registrar of the university, four each would get appointed in philosophy and psychology, three each in Malayalam, comparative literature, Sanskrit, economics, and drama and fine arts, two each in education, Hindi, history, and mathematics, and one each in Arabic, English, journalism, library science and statistics. The name of P.M. Shahala, wife of Thalassery MLA A.N. Shamseer, was missing on the list of those appointed in the Department of Education even as Reesha Karally, wife of P.K. Abdulla Navas, CPI(M) leader from Malappuram, has been included. Save University Campaign Committee, a Thiruvananthapuram-based organisation, had approached Governor Arif Mohammed Khan, who is also the Chancellor, alleging that the rank list had been manipulated to include their names. As many as 116 posts - 24 Professors, 29 Associate Professors, and 63 Assistant Professors - are to be filled in various departments and the varsity had issued a notification on December 31, 2019, for the purpose. The Syndicate approved a proposal to start classes for the newly-launched new generation courses in colleges affiliated to the university from February 8. The last date to apply for vacant merit seats in B.Ed courses has been extended to February 5. Dissent note Meanwhile, Syndicate member P. Rasheed Ahammed registered a dissent note at the meeting after his demand to publicise the reservation roster for the ongoing appointment of faculty in various departments was turned down. Mr. Ahammed also opposed the lack of filling of backlog posts in the reservation category.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/calicut-university-syndicate-clears-appointment-of-36-assistant-professors/article33707506.ece
31 January 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||822 fresh cases in Kozhikode, active caseload crosses 8,000||As many as 822 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kozhikode on Saturday even as the active case load in district surged to 8,050. The district is just behind Ernakulam in terms of the high number of fresh cases. According to the District Medical Officer, there were 808 locally acquired infections and the source of seven others was not known. Kozhikode Corporation accounted for 175 cases of local transmission, while Unnikulam had 39, Nochad 25, and Chorod 22. The number of recoveries were 744. Six deaths were reported from the Government Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode, on Saturday, while two others died on Friday. As many as 2,490 health workers were given the COVID-19 vaccine on Saturday. Cluster of infection Meanwhile, the DMO urged anyone who visited Silk Mandir textile showroom at Arayidathpalam in the city between January 23 and 30 to contact the district corona cell against the backdrop of 30 members of staff there testing positive for the virus. Those who visited the showroom during the period and have fever, cough, cold, or body pain should go on self-quarantine and submit themselves to RT-PCR tests. All the other staff at the textile showroom who had been in contact with the infected persons too should go on quarantine and contact either the corona cell or the next government healthcare centre. Contact 0495-2371471, 2376063, or 2378300 for help. 187 cases in Wayanad As many as 187 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Wayanad district on Saturday. Of the new cases 185 patients infected through local contact and one person each returned from Dubai and Karnataka. The district has so far reported 23,062 COVID-19 cases. Of these, 19,368 have recovered from the disease, including 237 persons on the day. The total number of active cases as on date was 3,554 in the district. As many as 7,387 persons are under observation and 140 persons died of the pandemic in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/822-fresh-cases-in-kozhikode-active-caseload-crosses-8000/article33707507.ece
31 January 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||‘Nammude Kozhikode’ launched||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Saturday launched “Nammude Kozhikode”, a citizen-centric initiative by the Kozhikode district administration to help the people raise complaints over civic issues and ensure government services at their fingertips. While opening the project through video-conferencing, Mr. Vijayan said that it was an extension of the ongoing “Mission Kozhikode” scheme that envisaged comprehensive development of the district with the active participation of the people while ensuring social justice. Mr. Vijayan said that his government was trying to accommodate various sections of society, such as the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes, women, and transgenders, who had been excluded from various development projects. A web application on Google Playstore and a web portal to enable the project were launched. Three components The project has three components: citizen-centric governance, citizen participation, and co-creation of futuristic Kozhikode. The web application has details about various welfare schemes and projects. Anyone can raise complaints over civic issues, fix appointments with officials and public service providers – direct meeting, video-conferencing, or phone calls. People can cite violations of rules, get emergency health services, disaster-related alerts, and public transport services etc. Details about employment services, tourism-related services, important news about the district, facilities for internship and volunteer service with government departments too would be made available. Photos and videos can be uploaded onto the website or the app. An SOS button would be available for women to file harassment complaints.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nammude-kozhikode-launched/article33707509.ece
31 January 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Theft of harvested crops leaves farmers a worried lot||Local gangs engaged in carting off agricultural produce are giving sleepless nights to several rural farmers in Kozhikode district. Those who recently lost their harvested food crops and cash crops allege that a few local drivers and women labourers are suspected to be part of the thefts, which have been reported to the police. The recent price hike of some of the agricultural produce may have led to a rise in the number of thefts. Naripetta, Valayam, Vanimel and Nadapuram areas have witnessed the highest number of such incidents in which the farmers suffered huge losses. Harvested coconuts, rubber sheets, arecanut, pepper and banana are the frequently stolen items. Both harvested and ripe crops have been missing from the fields. Only large scale farmers have filed complaints, while many small scale farmers are yet to report such incidents to the police. “The worst affected are those who manage farms away from their houses. By the time the landowner reaches the spot for harvest, the crops would have been carted off. The majority are not in a situation to appoint guards or undertake other surveillance measures,” said N.V. Francis, a farmer from Valayam. He said local farmers had convened several rounds of meetings to find a solution. A group of farmers who recently called a convention at Vanimel said they were considering an awareness campaign to encourage the public to communicate details of suspected persons with the police. In Vilangad panchayat, a farmers’ protection committee was formed to take up the issue and track the gangs with the support of the police. Representatives of some of the local action committees said the response of the police towards the issue was not encouraging. “We even caught a robber red-handed from the area with about 80 kg of stolen arecanut. The continuing negligence in the area is encouraging more gangs to flourish,” they said. Meanwhile, police officers from the Nadapuram sub division said the farmers’ complaints had been taken up seriously. They said plainclothesmen had been deployed in suspected areas and night patrolling had been intensified.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/theft-of-harvested-crops-leaves-farmers-a-worried-lot/article33707510.ece
31 January 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Court acquits firecracker shop owner||The Kozhikode fast-track special court on Saturday acquitted K.P. Jagadeesh, owner of Kerala Stationery Mart, in the case related to the major blaze on Moideen Palli Road, adjacent to S.M. Street in the city, almost 14 years ago. Judge S.R. Syamlal found Jagadeesh not guilty in the case. Eight people were killed, many were injured and property worth Rs. 15 crore was destroyed in the fire that broke out on April 5, 2007. The Crime Branch in September 2012 filed a chargesheet against Jagadeesh, who owned the wholesale firecracker shop from where the fire originated. The prosecution case was that he had carelessly stockpiled firecrackers in a wholesale shop. During the probe, the Crime Branch had ruled out the possibility of sabotage, relying on the examination report submitted by the Central Forensic Science Laboratory (CFSL), attached to the CBI. At the same time, the team had received a contradictory report from the State Forensic Science Laboratory (FSL) based on the samples collected from the accident site. The conflicting statements in the reports of the CFSL and FSL pertained to the presence of potassium chlorate in the samples.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/court-acquits-firecracker-shop-owner/article33707501.ece
31 January 2021||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Convince world of Ayurveda’s importance: Minister||Health Minister K.K. Shylaja has said that the State government was duty-bound to safeguard Ayurveda. Inaugurating the Founder’s Day celebrations of the Kottakkal Arya Vaidya Sala through videoconferencing on Saturday, Ms. Shylaja called upon the Ayurveda community to strive to convince the world of the importance of traditional medical knowledge with scientific backing. Kottakkal Municipal Chairperson Bushra Shabeer presided over the inaugural session. V.R. Prabhodhachandran Nair, former chairman of the Kerala Kala Mandalam, delivered the P.S. Varier Memorial Lecture. Arya Vaidya Sala chief physician P. Madhavankutty Varier welcomed the gathering. Chief executive officer G.C. Gopala Pillai delivered the keynote address. Joint general manager (corporate affairs) P. Rajendran proposed a vote of thanks. The Founder’s Day celebrations also coincided with the 57th Ayurveda seminar on post COVID-19 syndrome. Post COVID-19 R. Aravind, head of the Department of Infectious Diseases at the Government Medical College, Thiruvananthapuram, introduced the topic of post COVID-19 syndrome. Dr. Aravind said that it was still unclear how exactly the COVID-19 syndrome would be. E. Mukesh from P.S.V. Ayurveda College, Kottakkal, spoke on the scope of Ayurveda in addressing the post-COVID-19 syndrome. S. Rajagopala from All India Institute of Ayurveda, New Delhi, spoke on post-COVID-19 management. T.M. Unnikrishnan from Arya Vaidya Sala’s Ernakulam branch. spoke on clinical management of post-COVID-19 syndrome. K. Murali, Arya Vaidya Sala’s publications chief editor, moderated the seminar at the meet. Chief physician Dr. Varier gave away the annual Ayurveda awards instituted by the Arya Vaidya Sala. Additional chief physician K. Muraleedharan proposed a vote of thanks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/convince-the-world-of-ayurvedas-importance-minister-tells-physicians/article33707500.ece
31 January 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Pulse Polio drive to be held in Palakkad today||Pulse Polio will be administered to 2.11 lakh children below five years of age in the district on Sunday. District Medical Officer K.P. Reetha said here that the Pulse Polio administration would be under strict COVID-19 restrictions. District Panchayat president K. Binumol will inaugurate the district level polio administration drive at the District Women and Children Hospital here. Municipal chairperson K. Priya will preside. District Collector Mrunmai Joshi will be the chief guest. Migrant workers As many as 742 to get the polio vaccine will be the children of migrant workers from other States, said Dr. Reetha. She said 2.33 lakh vaccine doses had reached the district. As many as 2,115 booths will be set up for the vaccine administration. Each polio booth will be manned by two persons. Dr. Reetha said that 4,230 health workers and 220 supervisors have been employed for the polio drive. Those children who fail to take polio vaccine from the booths on Sunday will be given immunisation on Monday and Tuesday. The health staff will reach the homes to administer the vaccine for them. Children from homes with COVID-19 patients will get the polio vaccine later. Those children will get the vaccine two weeks after the patient tests negative for COVID-19. If the children have COVID-19, then they will have to wait 28 days. As many as 3,124 teams have been arranged to reach out to the children at their homes. All polio booths will have N-95 masks, face shields and sanitizers. “People above 60 years of age should not accompany the children coming for polio vaccination,” said Dr. Reetha. Mobile units Polio vaccine will be administered at bus-stands, malls, bazaars and railway stations. There will be 150 mobile units for polio administration. Dr. Reetha said that the Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) has been asked to ensure continuous power supply for proper storage of the vaccine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pulse-polio-drive-to-be-held-in-palakkad-today/article33707730.ece
31 January 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Minister launches Konni drinking water project||The State government will cover all household units in the Konni constituency under its drinking water network within four years, Water Resources Minister K. Krishnankutty has said. Inaugurating online the Rs. 13.98-crore drinking water project for the Government Medical College at Konni, the Minister said the Rs. 143-crore Seethathodu project was nearing completion. A meeting will be convened on February 28 to approve the Detailed Project Report (DPR) of the Mylapra-Malayalapuzha drinking water project while the DPR of Pramadam and Kalanjoor-Enadhimangalam drinking water projects were under preparation.  50 lakh litres  The Konni medical college drinking water project, having a capacity to supply 50 lakh litres of water on a daily basis, was completed with a financial assistance of Rs. 13.98 crore under the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development. The project will also benefit 5,642 families across four wards of the Aruvapulam grama panchayat. The project draws water from a well constructed on the banks of the Achencoil river. Konni MLA K.U. Janeesh Kumar and Anto Antony, MP, were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/minister-launches-konni-drinking-water-project/article33707560.ece
31 January 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Submit plans by Feb. 23, local bodies told||A meeting of the District Planning Council has directed the local bodies in Pathanamthitta to submit their annual plans for the financial year 2021-22 by February 23 so as to receive the approval by February 25. The two-day meeting, which concluded on Saturday, also directed the local bodies to start preparations ahead of the 14th Five-Year Plan. Omallur Shankaran, president of the Pathanamthitta district panchayat, presided over the meeting, also attended by District Collector Narasimhugari T.L. Reddy. Mr. Shankaran elaborated on the projects to be taken up in different sectors and urged the local bodies to formulate district-level projects in farming, water conservation, and health. Pointing out that the wage expenditure projects in paddy cultivation were being implemented in only 39 panchayats, he asked these institutions to make sure that the projects benefited only real farmers. He also suggested that the panchayats take up projects such as establishment of branded rice-mills, solid waste management units, and sports complexes. ‘Kerala Looks Ahead’ District Planning Officer Sabu C. Mathew said the State Planning Board was organising ‘Kerala Looks Ahead’ on February 1, 2, and 3 with the participation of international experts. He urged the local body secretaries to submit the details of projects implemented from 2015-16 to the Department of Economics and Statistics. The meeting also evaluated the progress of projects being implemented by each local body. Among the grama panchayats, Kalluppara had the highest plan expenditure and Kottangal panchayat had the lowest. Among the block panchayats, Pandalam had the highest plan outlay and Ilantur, the lowest. Among the municipalities, Pathanamthitta had the highest plan outlay and Pandalam municipality had the lowest. The total plan outlay of the District panchayat was 47.40%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/submit-plans-by-feb-23-local-bodies-told/article33707567.ece
31 January 2021||S. Anil Radhakrishnan,KERALA||State seeks 12 new trains||The 529.45-km semi-high-speed rail line SilverLine from Kochuveli to Kasaragod, estimated to cost Rs. 63,941 crore, tops Kerala’s wish list for the Union Budget 2021-22. Besides seeking 12 new inter-city and long-distance express trains, the State has demanded introduction of new Mainline Electric Multiple Unit (MEMU) services in the Thiruvananthapuram and Palakkad railway divisions, replacement of existing passenger trains with MEMU services in both divisions, and increase in the frequency of five trains. An enhanced allocation for the rail coach factory at Palakkad, development of a coaching terminal at Nemom, upgrade of the Kochuveli terminal, development of the marshalling yard at Ponnurunni as a coaching terminal and station complex by the State, and defreezing of the Angamaly-Erumely Sabari Rail, had been sought. Completion of the doubling work via Kottayam and Alappuzha and the Thiruvananthapuram Central-Kanyakumari line, upgrade of eight key stations, supply of Linke Hofmann Busch (LHB) coaches and Utkrisht coaches to replace old coaches, and automatic signalling between Ernakulam and Shoranur, figure on the wish list. For overall growth Minister for Public Works and Railways G. Sudhakaran has stressed the need to improve the rail infrastructure in the State with an emphasis on doubling of tracks, new railway lines, coaching terminals, and additional platforms. An efficient and faster evolution of the rail infrastructure would spur economic growth, attract investments, and boost the tourism sector. Pointing out that SilverLine has been accorded the ‘in-principle approval’ from the Union Ministry of Railways, Mr. Sudhakaran said Railway Minister Piyush Goyal should intervene to get it included in the Pink Book of 2021-22. On the wish list, Mr. Sudhakaran has communicated the government’s willingness to develop the proposed coaching terminal and station complex at Ponnurunni in Kochi. The new trains sought are Thiruvananthapuram Central-Kannur-Shatabdi Express, Kozhikode-Bengaluru Intercity, Palakkad-Thiruvananthapuram Central Jan Shatabdi Express, Ernakulam-Salem Intercity, daily express between Kochuveli and Mumbai via Kottayam and Konkan, Kochuveli-Malda, Kochuveli-Guwahati, Kochuveli-Howrah, Kochuveli-Kamakhya daily, Kochuveli-Hyderabad daily, Kochuveli-Velankanni weekly, Kochuveli-Rameswaram via Shengotta weekly, Vasco-Ernakulam daily, Vasco-Nagercoil via Thiruvananthapuram Central weekly, and Kannur-Madurai Intercity daily via Pollachi. Increase in frequency has been sought for the Kochuveli-Banaswadi Humsafar Express, Thiruvananthapuram Central-Nizamuddin Rajdhani Express, Kochuveli-Mangaluru Antyodaya Express, Kochuveli-Lokmanya Tilak biweekly express, and extension of Pune-Ernakulam Express up to Kochuveli.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-seeks-12-new-trains/article33707584.ece
31 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Chief Minister to interact with varsity students||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan will interact with students on a host of issues concerning the higher education sector under theCM@Campusprogramme. Envisaged on the theme ‘New Kerala, Youthful Kerala and the Future of Higher Education’, the interactive programme is being organised across five universities from February 1. The Cochin University of Science and Technology (Cusat) will host the first interaction on February 1. The programme will also have students from APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University, the Kerala University of Health Sciences, the National University of Advanced Legal Studies, and the Kerala University of Fisheries and Ocean Studies. Kerala University will organise the second round of the discussions on February 6 when the programme will have students from its affiliated institutions. Students of Mahatma Gandhi University and the Sree Sankaracharya University of Sanskrit will participate in the interaction to be held on the MGU campus on February 8. Calicut University will host the programme on February 11 when its students and those from Kerala Agricultural University, Thunchath Ezhuthachan Malayalam University, and Kerala Kalamandalam will interact with the Chief Minister. The programme will come to an end on February 13 with a final round of discussions at Kannur University that will also involve students from the Central University of Kerala and Kerala Veterinary and Animal Sciences University.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/chief-minister-to-interact-with-varsity-students/article33707571.ece
31 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KSEB to bring services home||The Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) is introducing the ‘Service@doorstep’ concept from February wherein services, including new electricity connections, will be available to consumers by making a single phone call to 1912. The toll-free number 1912, which serves as a complaint registration number at present, will transform into a comprehensive service registration number. By the second week of February, the KSEB hopes to pilot the initiative in at least 100 electrical sections. The coverage will be extended throughout the State before June this year. The process For obtaining a new electricity connection, for instance, all the applicant has to do is dial 1912 and register. The applicant will be allotted a docket number. He/she will be alerted about the date of inspection and the certificates that need to be examined. KSEB staff will visit the applicant’s residence, collect the required information and upload it via a mobile app. Once the estimate is approved, the applicant will be informed via SMS and he/she can pay the fee online or over the counter. Other services such as transfer of ownership of connections, tariff conversion, effecting changes in connected load/contract load/phases and relocation of service line and meters will be offered in a similar manner. For LT consumers first In the first phase, the Service@doorstep facility will be available to LT consumers and new applicants for LT connections. Once the system is in place, consumers can reduce visits to KSEB offices. Although the power utility had introduced online facilities for consumer services and a green channel system for HT/EHT consumers, most consumers continue to visit section offices for availing them. Service@doorstep was introduced in 39 section offices under the Palakkad electrical circle on an experimental basis as a customer-friendly measure amid the COVID-19 pandemic. The power utility expects the new step to increase its acceptance among electricity consumers.  The coverage will be extended throughout the State before June this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kseb-to-bring-services-home/article33707594.ece
31 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Master plan for city’s sewerage revamp||The Kerala Water Authority (KWA) has appointed Delhi-based Rudrabhishek Enterprises Ltd. (REPL) to prepare a detailed project report (DPR) for the rehabilitation of the sewerage system in Thiruvananthapuram city. The infrastructure consultants will also provide a sewerage management system for uncovered areas of the city Corporation. The agreement was signed between Sandhya P., superintending engineer, KWA, and Dinesh Sharma, senior manager (infrastructure services), REPL on January 21, KWA officials said. The duration of the project is eight months. The REPL said in a statement on Saturday that it will provide a detailed engineering project report, drawings and estimates for the most feasible solutions for sewerage and septage management of the city. The REPL will be ‘preparing a comprehensive sewerage master plan for Thiruvananthapuram city Corporation covering all wards. It will consider requirements for next 30 years,’ the statement said. For their preparation, the REPL will carry out the survey and investigation and assess the environmental impact. “This will enable the city Corporation to optimise the utilisation of its present sewerage treatment plant capacity and also achieve the goals of Swachh Bharat Abhiyan.” REPL chairman and managing director Pradeep Misra said rapid urbanisation demanded modern-day approaches to sewerage and septage management. Energy-efficient operations would be one of the concerns during master planning, he said.  The master plan will consider requirements for the next 30 years||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/master-plan-for-citys-sewerage-revamp/article33707710.ece
31 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||City set for a mega clean-up||The city Corporation will launch a mass cleaning campaign in the second week of February to remove all the remaining waste dumps in the city. Mayor Arya Rajendran announced the campaign at the first meeting of the new council here on Saturday. She said that before the cleaning campaign, councillors would organise meetings of health inspectors, Haritha Karma Sena members, and other officials in their wards to assess the current waste management initiatives, including kitchen bins. Complaints on app Public can register complaints regarding waste dumps in the Smart Trivandrum mobile application ahead of the cleaning campaign. Following complaints of LED street lights becoming non-functional in some places, the Mayor asked councillors to submit a list of non-functional street lights in their wards within a week. “We have held discussions with the KSEB regarding the issue. They said they did not have enough staff to survey non-functioning street lights in all wards. So, the councillors will give the list from the wards, which will be submitted together to the KSEB, which has promised to carry out maintenance or replace them within 15 days,” said the Mayor. The Council meeting decided to increase the rent on telephone poles for Reliance Communications Limited as well as Reliance Jio from Rs. 500 per pole to Rs. 750. It was decided to recover the outstanding amount from previous years from Reliance Communications Limited. Rent for 10 families The meeting also decided to provide rent for one year for 10 families from Rajaji Nagar who will have to be rehabilitated for the construction of a primary health centre and anganwadi under the Smart City project. Since the existing facilities, which are in a state of disuse, are located in low-lying areas, piling work has to be done, which will cause difficulties to the 10 families staying near the site. Each family will get Rs. 2,500 a month from the Corporation. A special council meeting will be convened to discuss the revision projects and the projects for this year, as the Opposition councillors said that they needed to know the details of the projects which were being dropped and introduced. BJP councillor Girikumar raised the issue of the multi-level car parking facility on the Corporation premises which has not become fully functional even after its inauguration. The Mayor said the works on fire safety would be completed within two months.  Councillors asked to submit a list of non-functional street lights in their wards within a week||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/city-set-for-a-mega-clean-up/article33707724.ece
31 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||State logs 6,282 new cases||Kerala reported 6,282 new cases of COVID-19 on Saturday when 59,759 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. Test positivity rate on the day was 10.51%, indicating that disease transmission levels are remaining more or less steady in the State. Recoveries The cumulative case burden of the State has risen to 9.23,912 cases. Kerala reported more recoveries than new cases on Saturday, with 7,032 patients reported to have tested negative. The active case pool of the State, which was going up slowly for the past few days, came down marginally to 71,469. The cumulative recoveries reported in the State till date has risen to 8,48,476. The addition of 18 new deaths on Saturday to the official list of COVID fatalities has taken the State’s toll ever since the pandemic began to 3,722 deaths. Thrissur reported seven deaths, Kozhikode three, Thiruvananthapuram and Kollam two each, while one death each was reported from Alappuzha, Malappuram, Wayanad and Kannur. The number of critically ill COVID patients in the State who are currently being treated in ICUs in various hospitals in the State is 776 on Saturday, according to official reports, with 228 of them requiring ventilator assistance. Among districts, Ernakulam continues to report the highest number of cases in the State with 859 cases, Kozhikode 822, Kollam 688, Pathanamthitta 556, Alappuzha 526, Thrissur 524, Kottayam 487, Malappuram 423, Thiruvananthapuram 350, Kannur 321, Palakkad 256, Wayanad 187, Idukki 181, and Kasaragod 102 cases. UK variant A total of 76 persons who reached the State from the U.K. have so far tested COVID-19 positive, of whom the samples of 10, following genomic analysis, have been found to have the presence of B.1.1.7, the SARS CoV2 variant first reported in the U.K., which is believed to be highly transmissible.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-logs-6282-new-cases/article33707588.ece
31 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Industry leaders to address conclave||Industry leaders Ratan Tata, Anand Mahindra, and Nobel laureate Amartya Sen are among an impressive line-up of speakers to share their insights and suggestions at the three-day global meet Kerala Looks Ahead from February 1. The meet is organised to look at the possibilities of attracting investment to the State in the post-pandemic era. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and Industries Minister E.P. Jayarajan will attend a special session on Industry on February 3. Ease of doing business The other industry leaders attending it include Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw, executive chairperson of Biocon Limited, Kris Gopalakrishnan, chairperson of Axilor Ventures, M.A. Yusuff Ali, chairperson of Lulu Group, Ravi Pillai, managing director of RP Group, and Azad Moopen, chairperson and managing director of Aster Medcity. The State will showcase a broad range of its robust and resilient industry before business leaders and stakeholders at the special session, besides highlighting the enhanced ease of doing business backed by a string of policy interventions. It is organised by the Kerala State Planning Board. Preparing a roadmap The session will also explore the interventions to modernise the critical sectors of economy by channelling constructive suggestions emerging during the global conclave. “A defining feature of this conference is that it looks ahead to the views of industry veterans on laying down a roadmap for the State. The suggestions and consensus emerging from the deliberations could become vital inputs in strengthening our policy initiatives and addressing the gaps,” says Planning Board Vice Chairperson V.K. Ramachandran. Social security too “Kerala is keen to follow a development model of expediting economic growth without jettisoning its storied social security and welfare commitments. It is important to note that the participating industry leaders are known for their larger concerns for the less privileged sections of society,” says Venu V., Member Secretary, Kerala State Planning Board. The Korean experience In another session on industrial possibilities on February 2, Myungjae Moon, Director of the Institute for Future Government Studies, Yonsei University, will speak on South Korean experience in promoting industrial development and the economic growth possibilities for Kerala in the emerging global order. Besides Mr. Jayarajan, the session will see presentations by Rizwan Soomar, MD and CEO, DP World-Port and Logistics, V. Ramgopal Rao, Director of Indian Institute of Technology, Delhi, Daisy Chittilapilly, MD, Digital Transformation, CISCO, and Tony Thomas, former CIO, Nissan Motor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/industry-leaders-to-address-conclave/article33707705.ece
31 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Dates import: Customs told to give info under RTI||The State government on Saturday appeared to harness the strength of the Right to Information Act (RTI) to mount a robust legal defence against what it viewed as trespasses against federalism and jurisdictional overreach by the Customs (Preventive), Kochi. A.P. Rajeevan, Additional State Protocol Officer, General Administration Department (Political) has sought information under the RTI Act from the Customs regarding the controversial import of dates by the UAE consulate here in 2017. The Customs appeared to be investigating whether the date import was a cover for gold smuggling and if the crime had the tacit support of any person in the State government. Minister questioned The Customs had unleashed a political storm by questioning Minister for Welfare of Minorities K.T. Jaleel for accepting the dates as a Ramzan gift from the consulate for distribution to needy families. The Kerala Secretariat Employees Association, a pro-Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] service organisation, had sought the prosecution of Customs officials for the ‘custodial harassment’ of Assistant Protocol Officer M.S. Harikrishnan. The Customs had questioned him recently in connection with duty exemption granted to foreign representations by the State government. The Protocol Section at the government Secretariat had come under the Customs scanner after the UAE consulate linked gold smuggling case broke in July last. A fire at the section last year had caused the Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to accuse the government of arson to erase evidence regarding duty exemption granted to foreign embassies to import freight without Customs examination. Questions posed The State Protocol Officer had told the Customs that the Kerala government had not granted immunity to the UAE consulate or any foreign entity or representation to import freight without Customs examination or assessment via air and seaports in the State during the 2019-21 period. Mr. Rajeevan has asked the Customs to identify “the importer responsible for payment of duty if the imported commodity or part of it is utilised for non-permitted purpose.” Adjudication procedures His questions seemed calibrated to understand the State government’s duties and functions and responsibility in policing imports and sea and border check-posts. He has asked details about adjudication procedures if any regarding the import of dates. He has also sought the name and designation of persons served with a summons under Section 108 of the Customs Act connected with controversial import of dates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/dates-import-customs-told-to-give-info-under-rti/article33707716.ece
31 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Society needs scientific temper: Pinarayi||Developing a scientific temper in society is of paramount importance, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said on Saturday, stressing the dangers posed by the promotion of pseudo-science. Society should be encouraged to accept scientific outlook as the beacon for progress. At every level, the conviction should be strong that the scientific method offers the best solutions to the problems faced by the individual, society and the country, the Chief Minister said, inaugurating the valedictory of the 33rd Kerala Science Congress (KSC) organised by the Kerala State Council for Science, Technology and Environment (KSCSTE). Virologist and chairman of the 33rd KSC T. Jacob John underscored the importance of establishing a dedicated ‘health protection agency’ in the State for tackling infectious diseases. It would be a robust and lasting system of defence, given the State's susceptibility to infectious diseases due to the high population density and volume of travel, he said. The 33rd KSC was themed on ‘Pandemics: Risks, Impacts and Mitigation.’ Technical sessions were held from January 25 to 28. Around 160 papers were presented. K.P. Sudheer, executive vice president, KSCSTE, presided. Thomas V. P., assistant professor, Botany, Catholicate College, Pathanmthitta, won the Dr. S. Vasudev Award - 2020 instituted by the KSCSTE for the best project completed under the Science Research Scheme. The Young Scientist Awards were presented to A. A. Ambily, assistant professor, Mathematics, Cochin University of Science and Technology (Cusat); Deepu Sivadas, post-doctoral fellow, Jawaharlal Nehru Tropical Botanic Garden and Research Institute (JNTBGRI), Palode; Sreejith Shankar P., assistant professor, CSIR-National Institute for Interdisciplinary Science and Technology; and Sudarshan Karthik, assistant professor, Avionics, Indian Institute of Space Science and Technology (IIST), Valiamala.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/society-needs-scientific-temper-pinarayi/article33707573.ece
31 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Helping children in care homes chalk out career paths||Career choices confound the best of students. Children living in child-care institutions may be more disadvantaged owing to their limited exposure and social background. The future, for them, remains a question mark more often than not. Looking beyond providing food and schooling to ensure livelihood opportunities for them once they move out of the homes, the District Child Protection Unit (DCPU) under the Women and Child Development Department has piloted Amrita Kiranam for the children living in 88 child care institutions as per the juvenile justice Act in the district. Officials of the District Child Protection Unit say that for the large part, the children in homes, often hailing from coastal or tribal settlements and with parents working in the unorganised sector, may not be aware of career opportunities other than the mainstream ones. This destines them to a lifetime working as casual labourers, and lacking any job security. To address this hurdle, the DCPU has launched the Amrita Kiranam project to introduce such children to diverse career and livelihood opportunities. Data collected In the first phase, Amrita Kiranam is targeting 81 Class 12 students living in children’s homes. Preliminary data on these students, such as their social background and the sectors they are interested in to take up employment, have been collected. Next, career guidance sessions have been launched for them in association with the Career Guidance and Adult Counselling Cell of the higher secondary wing in the State. Two sessions led by higher secondary Souhruda Club trainers Ratheesh Nirala and Shihab A. have been held to understand the students’ interests and present opportunities to them, be it paramedical courses or one-year technical courses with certification that can land them jobs without delay. On the cards is training for students with the support of various organisations. Good response The response from the students has been very good though the sessions have been held online in the wake of COVID-19, say the DCPU officials. The pandemic, they say, has had an impact on their plans for following up on students right from Class 10, resulting in limiting career guidance to Class 12 students for the time being. Amrita Kiranam, they say, will equip students to make sound career choices rather than fall back on jobs in the unorganised sector once they attain the age of 18 and move out of the portal of child care institutions.  The project will target 81 Class 12 students in the initial phase||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/helping-children-in-care-homes-chalk-out-career-paths/article33707707.ece
31 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Pulse Polio drive in State today||The State-level launch of the Pulse Polio immunisation drive on Sunday will be held at the Vattiyurkavu family health centre here in the capital city. Minister for Health K.K. Shylaja; Mayor Arya Rajendran; V.K. Prasanth, MLA; and district panchayat president D. Suresh Kumar will be present at the inauguration to be held at 8 a.m. All children below the age of five in the State will be given the oral polio vaccine. COVID-19 protocols will be observed while administering the polio drops. COVID-positive children Children who have been given the polio vaccine as per the National Immunisation Schedule should also be given polio drops. Children who have tested positive for COVID-19 or are in quarantine will be given the vaccine by health workers at their houses once the quarantine period ends, the Minister said in a statement here on Saturday. From 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. As many as 24,690 booths have been arranged in the State to administer polio drops to more than 24.49 lakh children from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. Booths will be set up in anganwadis, schools, bus-stands, health centres, libraries, airports, boat jetties, and railway stations. Mobile units have been made in areas where migrant workers live. Those reaching the booths should follow the COVID-19 prevention guidelines such as wearing masks, ensuring hand hygiene, and maintaining physical distancing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pulse-polio-drive-in-state-today/article33707717.ece
31 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Chandy: govt. failed to manage pandemic||Terming the State government’s response to the COVID-19 crisis as a miserable failure, senior Congress leader Oommen Chandy has called for the constitution of a multidisciplinary team of experts to study the situation here and devise a strategy to tackle the pandemic. In a press note issued here on Saturday, Mr. Chandy said an analysis of the government’s COVID management strategy over the last one year would reveal its failure on multiple fronts. “Today, seven of the 10 districts with the highest caseload are in Kerala. The State also has 50% of the new cases reported daily in India, the highest number of active cases and the third in the total case burden,’’ he said. Low testing Blaming low testing rate for the situation, he said the State had failed to heed expert opinion to increase the number of tests to 100,000 daily. He accused the government of sidelining a large section of experts in the government and private sector and insisting on an arbitrary pandemic management strategy. Dismissing the State’s contention that the high population density and the number of the aged and diabetic patients had compounded the situation here, Mr. Chandy said States like Delhi, UP, Bihar and Bengal had managed to bring the pandemic under control.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/chandy-govt-failed-to-manage-pandemic/article33707592.ece
31 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Two dragonfly species ‘rediscovered’ in the Ghats||A “chance discovery” by a group of naturalists during the lockdown has led to the rediscovery of two rare dragonfly species in the Western Ghats, one of which after nearly nine decades. They have been sighted for the first time in the State. The sightings, one of which as early as 15 years ago, have now found place in the Journal of Threatened Taxa . Martin’s Duskhawker ( Anaciaeschna martini ), a dragonfly species belonging to the Aeshnidae family, and Kimmin’s Reed tail ( Protosticta rufostigma Kimmins, 1958 ), a damselfly species belonging to the Platystictidae family, are the new additions to the odonate checklist of Kerala. Kalesh Sadasivan, a naturalist with the Thiruvananthapuram-based Travancore Nature History Society (TNHS), said the lockdown provided ample time to review several sightings photographed several years ago. Discussions with odonatologists and a peer review for publication in the journal threw light on the relevance of their findings. In 1958 He said Kimmin’s Reed tail, which evaded detection after its discovery in Thirunelveli in 1958, was spotted by him and Muhammed Jafer Palot, both members of the TNHS Odonate Research Group, at Kakkayam in the Malabar Wildlife Sanctuary in January 2006. It had been spotted six times later between 2012 and 2019 in the Peppara Wildlife Sanctuary and the Ponmudi-Kallar valley in Thiruvananthapuram and Shendurney in Kollam. The sightings of Martin’s Dushkawker were recorded by Manoj Sethumadhavan and S. Jeevith of the Wynter-Blyth Association, Nilgiris, near the Ralliah dam in the Nilgiris in September 2014 and later by a TNHS team comprising Sadasivan and Baiju Kochunarayan in Munnar in June 2019.  Junior synonym Observing that the species drew similarities with Anaciaeschna donaldi, last spotted by English entomologist F.C. Fraser in Annamalai Hills in 1933, the research cited recent odonate studies that concluded the particular species as a junior synonym of Anaciaeschna martini (or Martin’s Duskhawker). (In zoological nomenclature, junior synonym refers to a name which describes a recognised taxon or biological unit with a different name.)  Distribution While Kimmin’s Reed tail had been known to be distributed in the Western Ghats, parts of north-eastern India, and Myanmar, Martin’s Dushkawker is distributed across Peninsular India, Sri Lanka, Nepal, and Bhutan till Japan. Sadasivan called for studies to learn the status and distribution of species along the Western Ghats to understand the changing environmental condition of the biodiversity hotspot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-dragonfly-species-rediscovered-in-the-ghats/article33707491.ece
31 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Students up to Class 8 to be promoted||Students up to Class 8 in State schools will be promoted to the next class under the no-detention policy and it will likely be the same for students of Class 9 too. No formal decision on school reopening has been taken yet. With COVID-19 caseload still high, online classes look set to continue till the end of the academic year. Students of Class 10 and 12 will appear for the public examinations. Students in other grades will likely be promoted without exams. Worksheets are being developed for students for each subject and class. These will be provided to them through their schoolteachers. The worksheets are to be completed and returned, and will serve as records of their academic performance. Promotion lists will be prepared for Class 9 students on the basis of the worksheets that will be evaluated and performance in online classes. Possibilities for detention are slim. Exams for Class 11 students will most likely be held after May. Plus One students will also appear for public examinations. These are likely be held after May after a new government comes to power in the State. Kerala had decided to continue the no-detention policy as comprehensive evaluation and outcome-based grading was followed in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/students-up-to-class-8-to-be-promoted/article33707591.ece
31 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||I’m entwined to Puthuppally: Chandy||Former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy on Saturday attempted to end the speculation that he will forsake Puthuppally to contest the Assembly elections from Nemom in Thiruvananthapuram. Mr. Chandy, who is the head of the election management and strategy committee of the Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee, said the party had not finished candidate selection. Hence, conjectures regarding candidates and constituencies should stop forthwith. The Congress high command and the Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee would decide who would contest and from where. Mr. Chandy said Puthuppally and his life were closely entwined. “There will be no change in that during my lifetime,” he said. Mr. Chandy has represented the Puthuppally constituency since 1970. The Assembly had honoured him recently for completing 50 years as a lawmaker. O. Rajagopal of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is the incumbent MLA from Nemom. BJP heavyweight Kummanam Rajasekharan is tipped to fight the Assembly elections from Nemom. The Communist Party of India (Marxist) and the Congress will also enter the fray with high-profile candidates. A tight three-cornered fight is likely in the constituency. Speculation The speculation about Mr. Chandy’s candidature from Nemom followed a statement by his son Chandy Oommen.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/im-entwined-to-puthuppally-chandy/article33707590.ece
31 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Portal to give info on scientific equipment||The Kerala State Council for Science, Technology and Environment (KSCSTE) has unveiled a web portal which provides valuable information on high-end scientific equipment available in academic and research institutes across the State. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan launched the portal, reap-k.kscste.kerala.gov.in, at the valedictory of the 33rd Kerala Science Congress here on Saturday. REAP-K is short for Research Equipment Awareness Portal-Kerala. ‘Unhindered research’ The facility has been launched with the intention that research should not be hampered by a lack of knowledge about laboratory infrastructure available in the academic and research institutions, KSCSTE executive vice president K.P. Sudheer said. In fact, the whole concept evolved from the KSCSTE’s search for RT-PCR equipment during the initial days of the COVID-19 outbreak. “We did not have an idea then. That is how the idea evolved. We developed a database, and by contacting the Higher Education Department, listed the major equipment available in colleges, universities and research institutions.” Contact details Researchers can locate an equipment by typing in a keyword. The portal also provides information on the persons who should be contacted, a pressnote said. In the next stage, researchers will also be able to place their requests for the use of the equipment online, Mr. Sudheer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/portal-to-give-info-on-scientific-equipment/article33707497.ece
31 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Chennithala to launch Statewide yatra today||Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala will embark on a State-wide election tour from Kasaragod on Sunday. His ‘Aishwarya Kerala Yatra’ would highlight the Left Democratic Front’s (LDF) ‘entrenched corruption and criminality.” He would also highlight the dangers posed by the Hindu majoritarian politics, pro-corporate fiscal policies, and anti-minority stance of the Bharatiya Janata Party. Mr. Chennithala would also offer an alternative vision for Kerala’s overall development and prosperity, focusing on welfarism. Mr. Chennithala would use the tour of Assembly constituencies to establish a connection with communities and social organisations and array them under the Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) against the ‘divisive politics’ of the LDF and BJP. Minimum income plan  He would highlight the minimum income guarantee scheme, an electoral promise of the All India Congress Committee. Mr. Chennithala is also likely to highlight the ‘high number of political murders,’ including the killing of two Congress workers in Periya in 2018. The Congress would also make a campaign issue out of the public money spend by the LDF government to fend off CBI investigations against CPI(M) workers accused of political murders. The yatra is speckled with corner meetings, neighbourhood tours and household level visits. Mr. Chennithala would spotlight the corruption scandals he had brought against the government. Focal points He has accused the government of giving free rein to gold smugglers to use the heft of the Chief Minister’s Office for their illegal purposes. The arrest of Mr. Vijayan’s former Principal Secretary, M. Sivasankar, by Customs on gold smuggling charges, the Customs’s notice to Speaker P. Sreeramakrishnan’s staff, Minority Welfare Minister K.T. Jaleel’s questioning by the Enforcement Directorate and summons to Life Mission officials are likely to figure at the public meetings. Speakers Former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy will inaugurate the yatra at Manjeswaram. Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president Mullappally Ramachandran, AICC general secretary in charge of Kerala, Tariq Anwar, AICC general secretary K.C. Venugopal, UDF convenor M.M. Hassan, Indian Union Muslim League general secretary P.K. Kunhalikutty, Deputy Opposition Leader M.K. Muneer and former Deputy Chief Minister of Karnataka G. Parameshwara are scheduled to speak on the occasion.  ‘Aishwarya Kerala Yatra’ will highlight LDF’s ‘corruption and criminality’ It will also lay stress on the dangers posed by Hindu majoritarian politics||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/chennithala-to-launch-statewide-yatra-today/article33707675.ece
31 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Land acquired for KTU campus at Vilappilsala||The government has issued notification to formalise the acquisition of around 100 acres of land in Vilappilsala for establishing the academic campus of APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University (KTU). The gazette notification was issued by the Revenue Department on January 27. The KTU has been functioning from the MBA building on the campus of the College of Engineering, Thiruvananthapuram, since its inception in May 2014. The campus will be developed on a plot of 38.917 hectares at the Chowalloor ward of the Vilappil grama panchayat in Kattakada taluk. A package worth Rs. 117.80 crore has been sanctioned for compensating land owners who ceded land for the project. The package also includes provision for assistance including livelihood allowance for traders in the area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/land-acquired-for-ktu-campus-at-vilappilsala/article33707709.ece
31 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KIIFB project at Vikas Bhavan after talks: MLA||The Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB) project at the Kerala State Road Transport Corporation’s (KSRTC) Vikas Bhavan depot will be implemented only by taking KSRTC employees into confidence, V.K. Prasanth, MLA, said on Saturday. Mr. Prasanth was inaugurating a meeting on the project which is being taken up jointly by KIIFB and the KSRTC. Biju Prabhakar, Chairman and Managing Director of KSRTC, explained the project at the meeting. Discussions will be held at the level of Transport and Finance Ministers with KSRTC unions that are opposed to the project, he said. Under the project, KIIFB will construct a modernised depot and the KIIFB headquarters on 60 cents of the total 2.89 acres. The land will be leased to KIIFB for 30 years. Councillor Mary Pushpam presided.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kiifb-project-at-vikas-bhavan-after-talks-mla/article33707711.ece
31 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Test positivity down to 6.15% in district||The district’s COVID-19 caseload slid significantly to 4,386 on Saturday as 350 fresh cases and 471 recoveries were recorded in 24 hours. While there is no imported case, all of the new cases have been attributed to local transmission. The source of infection is unknown in 76 cases. Six health care workers were also among those who tested positive. With 5,686 people being subjected to COVID-19 testing, the test positivity rate also fell to 6.15%. The death toll in Thiruvananthapuram stood at 742 as on Friday when seven deaths were recorded. The capital district continued to record the highest case fatality ratio (CFR) of 0.8 in the State. While Kannur has the second highest CFR of 0.53, Thrissur stood second among with 386 deaths. The district administration placed 1,530 persons under quarantine. There are 22,316 people quarantined at home and 55 in institutions in the district. Containment zones New containment zones have been declared at the Oruvathikonam residents association area in Mannanthara ward, and Shaktipuram area in Kannukalivanam ward in Azhoor grama panchayat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/test-positivity-down-to-615-in-district/article33707721.ece
31 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Case registered for poaching turtle||The Forest Department on Saturday registered a case in connection with the poaching of a turtle in Pulluvila, near Vizhinjam, a day ago. The case was booked by the Paruthippally range forest office under provisions pertaining to hunting under the Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972. A team of forest officials conducted an inquiry in the area to ascertain the information that was circulated on the social media. Info on her identity While confirming that the incident had taken place on Friday as was claimed by certain sections, the officials received information regarding the identity of the woman who was captured in the widely-shared clip as butchering the protected animal that figures in Schedule 1 of the law, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/case-registered-for-poaching-turtle/article33707722.ece
31 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Study on gingers fetches Vasudev award for teacher||A study on the use of gingers and their wild relatives by tribal communities has won an assistant professor the Dr. S. Vasudev Award - 2020 at the 33rd Kerala Science Congress organised by the Kerala State Council for Science Technology and Environment (KSCSTE). The study by Thomas V.P., Assistant Professor, Department of Botany, Catholicate College, Pathanamthitta, covered 33 tribal communities in 168 locations in Kerala and documented the use of 28 ginger species and their wild cousins in food, traditional medicine, fodder and religion. The project ‘Ethnobiological studies on Zingiberaceae of Kerala’ covered both the cultivated economically important ginger varieties and the wild ones used among tribal populations. “Gingers, especially turmeric ( Curcuma longa ) which belongs to the family Zingiberaceae, find extensive use among the tribal communities,” Mr. Thomas said. “I’ve been researching the family Zingiberaceae for some time now. In fact, my doctoral thesis was on gingers. Furthermore, the present study held the promise of being useful to society,” he said. Mr. Thomas received the three-year project under the Science Research Scheme of the KSCSTE. In fact, the Dr. S. Vasudev Award, which commemorates a former chairman of the Science, Technology and Environment Committee (STEC), goes to the best project completed under the Science Research Scheme. Germplasm facility The ginger project also threw up some botanically significant surprises. It helped pinpoint three new wild relatives of large cardamom and two synonyms during the course of his work. A germplasm conservatory for gingers was established at the Catholicate College botanical garden.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/study-on-gingers-fetches-vasudev-award-for-teacher/article33707575.ece
31 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||e-rickshaws get ready for city roads||E-rickshaws driven by six Kudumbashree neighbourhood group members are set to take to the city roads. The six Kudumbashree members were given the e-rickshaws to promote e-mobility as part of the SmartCity project. The neighbourhood group members, from poor economic backgrounds, have been selected by the Kudumbashree district mission coordinator. The beneficiaries had to give a small deposit, to be returned to them after the use of vehicles for six months. The vehicles will also be registered in their name after a year. The e-rickshaws can travel 80 km on a single charge. The expense per kilometre is 80 paise. They can seat four persons, and travel at a speed of 25 km per hour. The battery is fully charged in two to three hours. The vehicles, from Kinetic Green, can be charged at the charging station at Gandhi Park, East Fort. Three vehicles can be charged here at a time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/e-rickshaws-get-ready-for-city-roads/article33707706.ece
31 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Revision on VICTERS channel||Revision classes for students of Class 10 and 12 will begin on the KITE VICTERS channel on Sunday. Two sessions will be held for Plus Two (Class 12) students from 8.30 a.m. The sessions for Class 10 will be telecast at 9.30 a.m. The classes will be retelecast at 5.30 p.m. and 6.30 p.m., respectively. From Monday to Friday, one revision class each for Plus Two and Class 10 students will be telecast. The Plus Two session will be at 8 a.m., and that for Class 10 at 8.30 a.m. The retelecast will be at 8 p.m. and 8.30 p.m. the same day. Classes and timings could be looked up onfirstbell.kite.kerala.gov.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/revision-on-victers-channel/article33707708.ece
31 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Wetland walk at Vellayani Lake today||Wetland Schooling, a community-based educational and awareness programme on wetlands through actual experience, will be organised on Vellayani Lake on Sunday. An initiative of Climatehood, a youth fraternity that aims to tackle climate crisis, the programme is being held in connection with World Wetlands Day on February 2. The first offline event of Climatehood for the year, it will include wetland walk, birdwatching, wetland clearing (plogging), and other activities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/wetland-walk-at-vellayani-lake-today/article33707718.ece
31 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Woman manhandled by youths in Kattakada||The Kattakada police registered a case in connection with the alleged manhandling of a woman by two youths. The incident occurred at Punnamkarikkakom, near Poovachal, around 10.30 p.m. on Friday. The woman, Babitha of Poovachal, and her daughter had come to Kattakada on a bus from Thiruvananthapuram and were walking to their house when the incident occurred. The motorcycle-borne youths accosted the duo and demanded that they accompany them. They attacked Babitha when she refused to heed their demand. After pushing her to the road and stomping on her, the duo fled the spot. She was shifted to a hospital in Kattakada and later referred to the Government Medical College Hospital. The police have taken two Vithura youths into custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/woman-manhandled-by-youths-in-kattakada/article33707723.ece
31 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Three more fully reserved daily specials||The Railway Board has approved the introduction of three more fully reserved daily express special trains. The trains are 07235 KSR Bengaluru-Nagercoil Junction daily express, 07236 Nagercoil Junction–KSR Bengaluru daily express, 06328 Guruvayur-Punalur daily express, 06327 Punalur-Guruvayur daily express, 06649 Mangaluru Central-Nagercoil Junction daily express, and 06650 Nagercoil Junction–Mangaluru Central daily express.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/three-more-fully-reserved-daily-specials/article33707586.ece
31 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Trade unions’ protest on Feb. 3||The joint trade union committee will organise a dharna in front of Union government offices in all constituencies on February 3 to protest against the new labour codes and agricultural reforms introduced by the Centre. Trade union activists will burn copies of the labour codes and the amended agricultural laws at the protest venues. A press note issued by the committee said the agitation would send a strong signal to the Centre to roll back the contentious laws.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/trade-unions-stir-on-feb-3/article33707498.ece
31 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Farm officers object to pay revision norms||The Association of Agricultural Officers’ Kerala organised dharnas in front of the Secretariat here and in all district headquarters on Saturday in protest against the 11th Kerala Pay Revision Commission recommendations. In a statement here, the association alleged that there would be a difference of Rs. 18,400 in basic pay of agricultural officers as compared to similar appointments after 15 years of service. The government should intervene to correct this anomaly, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/farm-officers-object-to-pay-revision-norms/article33707719.ece
31 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Photography expo concludes||The photography exhibition themed on the development projects undertaken by the State government in the district concluded at the Museum radio park on Saturday. Health Minister K.K. Shylaja inaugurated the exhibition, organised by the Information and Public Relations Department, on January 27.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/photography-expo-concludes/article33707725.ece
31 January 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Seminar on coir geotextiles held||The Coir Development Department organised a one-day seminar on the possibilities and benefits of coir geotextiles. District panchayat president D. Suresh Kumar inaugurated the seminar which was attended by the presidents, secretaries and accredited engineers from 34 grama panchayats under the Perumkadavila, Nemom, Athiyannur, Parassala and Vellanad block panchayats in the district. The event was organised ahead of the Coir Kerala 2021 event in February.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/seminar-on-coir-geotextiles-held/article33707726.ece
31 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Facility to apply for grievance redressal||Applications for the Chief Minister’s grievance redressal system will be accepted at the visitors’ help centres at the North, South and Annex-1 blocks of the Secretariat from February 1. An official press note issued here said the new facility was being introduced to avoid the inconvenience caused by the restrictions to the entry to the Secretariat complex due to the COVID-19 situation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/facility-to-apply-for-grievance-redressal/article33707727.ece
31 January 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||BJP plans stir against corruption||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) State president K. Surendran will start a Kerala Yatra from Kasaragod on February 20 against the corrupt rule of the State government, party State general secretary M.T. Ramesh has said. ‘A victory march for a new Kerala’ will be the slogan of the yatra. The yatra will conclude in Thiruvananthapuram on March 7. Public meetings will be organised at 100 centres during the yatra. National leaders and Union Ministers would participate in the yatra, said Mr. Ramesh who was briefing about a State committee meeting held here on Friday. “A Secretariat march will be taken out on February 8 as part of the fight against corruption. Collectorate marches will be taken out in six southern districts on the same day. Collectorate marches will be held in northern districts on February 9,” he said. The BJP has already started work for the coming Assembly election. A committee led by senior leader Kummanam Rajasekharan has been formed to prepare the election manifesto. Public opinion will be gathered at 140 centres from February 10 to 20. House visits BJP workers will visit all houses on February 13 and 14. Meetings would be organised in all booths on February 10, 11 and 12 in connection with the remembrance day of Deen Dayal Upadyaya, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bjp-plans-stir-against-corruption/article33707583.ece
31 January 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||524 COVID cases in Thrissur||A total of 524 new cases were reported in the district on Saturday while 524 people recovered from the pandemic. There are 4,793 active cases in the district. So far, 87,180 COVID-19 cases have been reported from the district and 81,819 people have recovered. According to official statistics, 510 people, including five health workers, contracted the disease through local contact on Saturday. Of them, 88 people are above the age of 60 and 26 are below the age of 10. In all, 3,321 people are in home care. In all, 116 people were admitted to hospitals for treatment of COVID-19 on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/524-covid-cases-in-thrissur/article33707674.ece
31 January 2021||January 31 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||A feast for the eyes||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-feast-for-the-eyes/article33707732.ece
31 January 2021||January 31 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Homage||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/homage/article33707677.ece
31 January 2021||January 31 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Aiming high||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/aiming-high/article33707577.ece
31 January 2021||January 31 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Support for farmers||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/support-for-farmers/article33707597.ece
31 January 2021||January 31 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Ready to race||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ready-to-race/article33707496.ece
31 January 2021||January 31 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Taking no chances||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/taking-no-chances/article33707514.ece
31 January 2021||January 31 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Feel the path||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/feel-the-path/article33707518.ece
31 January 2021||January 31 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Testing times||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/testing-times/article33707527.ece
31 January 2021||January 31 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||In pursuit of prohibition||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/in-pursuit-of-prohibition/article33707713.ece
31 January 2021||January 31 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||For the fallen soldier||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/for-the-fallen-soldier/article33707729.ece
31 January 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Train halts removed||The South Central Railway has removed three halts with effect from February 1 for all trains on Guntakal division as they are non-remunerative. These three are among the 31 stations to be closed all over the zone in Secunderabad, Nanded, Guntakal and Hyderabad divisions. Passenger traffic will be closed at Valivedu Halt on Pulicherla-Damalcheruvu section; Reddipalle on Obuldevaripalle-Pullampet section and Mallappa Gate Halt on Guntakal Jn.-Maddikera section as they have turned unremunerative, according to a release from the South Central Railway.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/train-halts-removed/article33707182.ece
31 January 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Chinta pans Union govt. for ‘repeating history’||Former Union Minister and Congress Working Committee (CWC) member Chinta Mohan on Saturday criticised the Bharatiya Janata Party-led NDA government for “repeating” the Punjab Land Colonization Act of 1906 (Amendment), and causing agrarian unrest in the country after a gap of 115 years. Speaking to the media after observing Martyrs’ Day to mark Mahatma Gandhi’s death anniversary at Tirupati, Chinta Mohan blamed the BJP leaders for the attack on farmers at Red Fort. He said the Congress Party would stand by the agitating farmers and not relent till justice was meted out to them. “The agitation of the Punjab farmers in 1906 led by Bhagat Singh’s father and Lala Lajpat Rai had forced the British to withdraw the Act in 1907. Thousands of farmers then laid seize to Delhi for months together, forcing the British rulers to temporarily run the administration from Mumbai. The present agitation on the outskirts of New Delhi is similar to that. If the government doesn’t budge, it will meet the same fate as British,” Dr. Mohan said. The former Union Minister said that though the farmers had adopted peaceful means to express their grievances, the NDA government resorted to violence against them. The Congress leader deplored that the farmers’ agitation now lacked dedicated leaders like Putchalapalle Sundarayya, Tarimela Nagireddy, N.G. Ranga and Lachhanna. “The BJP leaders could suppress the agitations by means of corrupting the leaders. Unfortunately, the YSR Congress Party and the TDP in A.P. are in full support of the anti-farmers’ policies of the NDA government,” Dr. Mohan added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/chinta-pans-union-govt-for-repeating-history/article33707184.ece
31 January 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Student falls off college bus, dies in Puttur||A 20-year-old student of a private engineering college near Puttur succumbed to injuries after he reportedly fell from the college bus. According to information, Lokesh along with other students was returning to his village Ramachandrapuram near Tirupati on Saturday afternoon when he reportedly fell from the moving vehicle. His friends rushed him to a private hospital in Tirupati, where died while undergoing treatment. His parents alleged that the college management did not initiate any steps to rush him to hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/student-falls-off-college-bus-dies-in-puttur/article33707694.ece
31 January 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Punganur municipality bags PRSI Award||The New Delhi-based Public Relations Society of India (PRSI) on Saturday announced the National Award in tackling the COVID-19 pandemic to Punganur municipality in Chittoor district. The PRSI sent a mail to this extent to Commissioner Lokesh Varma. Minister for Panchayat Raj and Punganur MLA P. Ramachandra Reddy congratulated Mr. Lokesh Varma and staff of the civic body and the general public as well.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/punganur-municipality-bags-prsi-award/article33707185.ece
31 January 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Good scope for satellite startups: VSSC Director||The Director, Vikram Sarabhai Space Center (VSSC), Thiruvananthapuram, S. Somanath has said that high cost and low volume production remains the challenge with space engineering. Addressing a seminar on ‘The Indian Space Enterprise Achievements & New Directions’ at SRM University here on Saturday, marking the Research Day celebrations, Mr. Somanath said that the scope for satellite startups and the export potential is on the higher side in India. Mr. Somanath explained about the complexities of space engineering by describing details pertaining to space infrastructure, and technology elements in the development of space vehicles capable of operating for years together unattended to in the space. He talked about the changing horizons of the space industry, contributed by the emerging technologies such as integrating satellites, drones, and terrestrial imagery. “The Government of India should be opening the space sector and assist the new participants by sharing technological expertise. Startups and government bodies must be complementing one another to steer this industry towards excellence,” he suggested. University president Satyanarayana said that the day is marked by remembrance of outstanding contribution of scientists for the common good of the people. “The university, though just a three-year-old one, has grown leaps and bounds in research and is now the front runner among all the universities in the region,” he said. Prof. V.S. Rao, Vice-Chancellor, SRM AP, said that the day provides excellent opportunity for the scientific community to showcase their accomplishments and research works. Pro Vice-Chancellor D. Narayana Rao also spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/good-scope-for-satellite-startups-says-vssc-director/article33707695.ece
31 January 2021||Kadapa,ANDHRA PRADESH||Special place for YSR in my heart: SEC||State Election Commissioner N. Ramesh Kumar has termed former Chief Minister Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy as “one of our tallest leaders.” Addressing the media here on Saturday, Mr. Ramesh Kumar said he had worked as Finance Secretary for three years when Rajasekhara Reddy was the Chief Minister. “Later, I had worked in the Raj Bhavan for seven years before becoming the State Election Commissioner,” Mr. Ramesh Kumar recalled, and attributed his successful stint in the Raj Bhavan to the “goodwill of YSR.” ‘My conscience is clear’ “Though several officers had experienced hardship later, I never encountered any problem despite putting my signature on several files. My conscience is clear and true. I worked without fear or favour. Rajasekhara Reddy was a distinct personality with a secular mind. He had allowed the officials to enjoy freedom of speech. Though we had followed the rules and expressed our reservations as per the Constitution, we had never lost his favour at any time. I will continue to have a special place for him (YSR) in my heart,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/special-place-for-ysr-in-my-heart-sec/article33707661.ece
31 January 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||4.69 lakh children to get polio drops in E.G. today||East Godavari District Medical and Health Officer K.V.S. Gowreeswara Rao on Saturday said that more than 4.69 lakh children in the 0-5 age group would be administered the polio vaccine on Sunday across the district. Speaking to reporters at a press conference here, he said, “More than 3.32 lakh children in rural area and 1.13 lakh children in urban areas will be covered in the polio vaccination drive in the district.” Thirty mobile vaccination vehicles will be deployed to cover the tribal pockets under the ITDA Rampachodavaram and Chintoor agencies. A door-to-door survey will be carried out on February 1 and 2 to administer the vaccine to those who missed it on Sunday. In Rajamahendravaram city, the door-to-door survey will be conducted for three days from February 1.  No COVID vaccination “The ongoing exercise of COVID-19 vaccination has been suspended till February 3 in view of the polio vaccination drive,” said Dr. Gowreeswara Rao.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/469-lakh-children-to-get-polio-vaccine-in-eg-today/article33707686.ece
31 January 2021||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||IndiGo flights to take off from Kurnool on March 28||IndiGo will begin its operations to three southern cities from the Kurnool Airport under the ‘Ude Desh ka Aam Naagrik’ (UDAN) scheme from March 28. The airport, developed by the Andhra Pradesh Airports Development Corporation Limited, formerly known as Bhogapuram International Airport Company, had received the DGCA approval on January 15. TruJet is another operator that has been permitted to operate its flights from the airport. IndiGo, in a release from New Delhi, said it would operate flights between Kurnool and Bengaluru, Visakhapatnam and Chennai under the regional connectivity scheme. The airline plans to operate flights connecting Leh and Darbhanga in February. It also plans to kick-start operations from Agra in March, Bareilly and Durgapur in April, and Rajkot in May. ‘Strategic hub’ “It will strategically enhance regional connectivity in southern India as Kurnool will be one of the three capitals in Andhra Pradesh and the node for the Hyderabad-Bengaluru Industrial Corridor,” said Sanjay Kumar, IndiGo’s Chief Strategy and Revenue Officer. Financial incentive Flights on all the three routes – Bengaluru-Kurnool, Visakhapatnam-Kurnool, and Chennai-Kurnool – will operate four times per week. Under the UDAN scheme, financial incentives are extended from the Central and State governments, and airport operators to select airlines to encourage operations from the ‘Unserved’ and ‘Underserved’ airports for keeping airfares affordable.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/indigo-flights-will-take-off-from-kurnool-on-march-28/article33707105.ece
31 January 2021||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lovers ‘end lives’||In a suspected suicide pact, two young lovers allegedly ended their lives at Padurapalli on the city outskirts on Saturday. Police said Harish and Lavanya, who reportedly developed intimacy while working together in the Village Secretariat at Chittamarru, allegedly took the extreme step as they were separated from each other. Nellore police registered a case and began a probe into the incident on recovering the bodies of the deceased that were found hanging in a lodge where they had checked in last night. Those in distress and with suicidal tendencies can call 100 for guidance and counselling.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lovers-end-lives/article33707181.ece
31 January 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||SP promises ‘fair’ polls||Prakasam Superintendent of Police Siddharth Kaushal on Saturday promised to ensure a free and fair polling during the four-phase local body elections in 1,018 panchayats and 10,142 wards. Interacting with people at Rachabanda at Upugunduru, he exhorted them to take part in elections without any fear. He said cases would be booked against those violating poll code, like selling liquor, distributing money, threatening voters and intimidating them. He added that 8,000 CCTVs have been installed across the district. Erring contestants and their supporters will face action, he said. Special Election Cell has been set up in 18 circles of five sub-divisions in the district. As many as 1,209 suspicious persons have been identified and 490 cases were already registered against 6,843 persons under various sections, he said. Persons with 347 licensed firearms were told to surrender them at police stations. Of 2,472 polling locations, 754 had been classified as sensitive locations and 534 hyper sensitive locations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sp-promises-fair-polls/article33707186.ece
31 January 2021||ONGOLE/NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Support pours in for protesting farmers||Members of farmers’ unions and opposition parties staged demonstrations in South Coastal Andhra Pradesh on Saturday lending support to the farmers in the capital in the wake of violence that marred their protest on the Republic Day. After paying floral tributes to Mahatma Gandhi on his 73rd death anniversary, farmers and social activists, led by All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee Prakasam district unit president Ch. Ranga Rao, vowed to continue the stir in a peaceful manner till the Centre repealed the three farm laws. Organisation for Protection of Democracy State vice-president Ch.Sudhakar alleged that actor Deep Sidhu, who had reportedly instigated a section of farmers to hoist the ‘Nishan Sahib’ at the Red Fort, was in the BJP. Minimum support price mechanism evolved by agriculture scientist M.S. Swaminathan was the need of the hour, said Acharya N.G.Ranga Kisan Samastha general secretary Chunchu Seshaiah. All India Kisan Sabha Prakasam district president P. Hanumantha Rao wanted the Union government not to promote corporate farming, fearing that a majority of small and marginal farmers would end up losing their land holding over a period. Instead, farmers should be organised into Farmer Producer Organisations(FPOs) to take advantage of economies of scale. Paying homage to a farmer who died in New Delhi, Congress activists in Gudur in SPSR Nellore district staged a protest in front of the Sub-Collector’s office. Congress party Sarvepalli Assembly segment In-charge P. Chandrasekar urged the Union government to take back the farm laws during the Budget session of Parliament. It was unfortunate that the ruling YSR Congress Party and the opposition Telugu Desam Party had supported the three farm Bills in Parliament, said Congress Venkatagiri Assembly segment in-charge P.Srinivasulu Reddy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/support-pours-in-for-farmers/article33707657.ece
31 January 2021||RAJAMAHENDRAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rowdy-sheeter stabbed to death||Kukkala Satish, 32, a rowdy-sheeter, was stabbed to death allegedly by a group led by another rowdy-sheeter following an argument among them at Rajendra Nagar here on Friday night. According to the police, Satish was stabbed by his rivals led by Kadali Gangadhar. The incident occurred when both the groups were consuming alcohol in the Rajendra Nagar area. The reason for the argument that led to the murder was not known, the police said. Twenty-five cases of various offences have been registered against Satish in recent years. The body was sent to the District General Hospital in Rajamahendravaram. A case was registered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rowdy-sheeter-stabbed-to-death-after-a-row/article33707687.ece
31 January 2021||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||In the front line of war against polio, TB, AIDS||A homoeopath, astrologer and former president of Srikakulam Rotary Club, Mantri Venkata Swamy has championed awareness campaigns on polio, TB, malaria and tuberculosis in the region for over four decades. Mr. Venkata Swamy, who embarked on a life of public service during his college days in the late 1970s, has won awards and recognition at the national level for his efforts to eradicate the diseases in remote areas of Srikakulam district. His office in Arasavilli is filled with awards, mementos, appreciation certificates, and photos of felicitations — a testament to his efforts. “Whatever little I earn as an astrologer and homoeopathy practitioner is spent on service activities and awareness camps taken up in remote areas of Srikakulam district,” said Mr. Venkata Swamy, who was secretary of the Students’ Social Service Wing of the Arts College in Srikakulam. He said he understood the importance of public service when he went to assist in rehabilitation efforts for people affected by a cyclone that struck Diviseema in Krishna district in November 1977. Along with other students, he worked for nearly a month. After college, he began focusing on health awareness programmes in rural and tribal areas. “Many people were wary of immunisation programmes. I took the help of locals and took up special drives to urge them to get their children vaccinated for polio,” he said. “I identified eight polio cases in Srikakulam town itself in 1993. I observed that many children were affected by polio as parents failed to understood the importance of vaccination. Although new cases are identified very rarely, I continue to take up awareness programmes as not even a single child should be affected by the dreaded disease,” he said. Rotary Club, which recognised his efforts, made him coordinator for Srikakulam district in 1995 for complete eradication of polio from the district. Hundreds of awareness programmes were conducted in the last 25 years. Rotary National Pulse Polio Committee recognised him as one of the best coordinators in India ten times for taking up health awareness programme in remote areas along the A.P.-Odisha border where immunisation was a herculean task in those days due to the presence of Naxals. Apart from polio, he has been concentrating on tuberculosis awareness programmes which won him an award from Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan. He has been honoured by several organisations for his service activities including protection of child rights, women empowerment, organ donation and blood donation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/in-the-front-line-of-war-against-polio-tb-aids/article33707659.ece
31 January 2021||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Read autobiography of Gandhi, youngsters told||Marking Mahatma Gandhi’s death anniversary, Srikakulam Collector J. Nivas and Superintendent of Police Amit Bardar unveiled his statue at Mandal Revenue Office(MRO) office on Saturday. He felicitated P.V.S. Rammohana Rao, head of a foundation named after his name, for donating 850 Gandhi statues to various schools, colleges and government offices. Mr. Nivas urged youngsters to read Mahatma’s autobiography to know about the sacrifices made to achieve independence. Mr. Rammohana Rao said that 150 more statues would be donated very soon to achieve the 1,000-mark in a couple of months. He said that he had started distribution of statues on the occasion of Gandhi’s 150th birth anniversary in 2019.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/read-gandhis-autobiography-collector-urges-youngsters/article33707690.ece
31 January 2021||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Don’t shun leprosy patients’||Srikakulam District Medical and Health Officer K.C. Nayak said leprosy was a curable disease and iterated that the government was providing continuous medical support to those affected by it. He urged the people not to isolate or boycott patients and reminded them how Mahatma Gandhi himself had served them with love and affection. The officer was attending as a chief guest at a programme marking Gandhi’s death anniversary, in Leprosy Colony. The District Medical and Health Officer thanked Rotary Club president M.R.K. Das for presenting benches for people living in the colony. Rotary Club assistant governor D. Shivasankar, polio wing chairman Mantri Venkata Swamy and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dont-isolate-leprosy-patients/article33707692.ece
31 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vijaya Sai urges Centre to grant SCS to State||YSR Congress Parliamentary Party leader V. Vijaya Sai Reddy has appealed to the Central government to grant Special Category Status (SCS) to Andhra Pradesh during the ongoing Budget Session as per the commitment given at the time of bifurcation of the State. Participating in a virtual all-party meeting presided by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday, Mr. Vijaya Sai Reddy said bifurcation had dealt a severe blow to the development of the State as its finances were crippled, and the COVID-19 pandemic made the situation worse. Stating that the 15th Finance Commission gave the Centre the discretionary power to confer SCS on States, he said it should be granted immediately to enable the State to overcome the crisis. Mr. Vijaya Sai Reddy also urged the Central government to take up the inter-linking of rivers as a national project, and make water allocations to the States on the basis of their geographical areas. ‘Shift High Court’ Water availability should be monitored with the help of telemetry once in a fortnight, he said, while insisting that the expenditure on the projects be borne by the Centre. He also requested the Central government to immediately begin the process of shifting the Andhra Pradesh High Court from Amaravati to Kurnool in tune with the State government’s plan to foster decentralised development. He pointed out that Kurnool was chosen as the ‘Judicial capital’ of Andhra Pradesh and that Visakhapatnam and Amaravati were sought to be developed as the ‘Executive’ and ‘Legislative’ capitals respectively for balanced growth. Mr. Vijaya Sai Reddy raised the issue of establishing the Railway Zone with Visakhapatnam as its headquarters, and the inordinate delay in giving it a concrete shape. He wanted that an exclusive commission be set up for the welfare of farmers and steps taken to ensure minimum support price for various crops. Attack on temples While pointing the finger of suspicion at the TDP workers for the recent attacks on temples in the State, Mr. Vijaya Sai Reddy said a policy should be formulated at the national level to firmly deal with attacks on places of worship and that the jail term for involvement in acts of desecration should be increased from two to 20 years after making an amendment to that effect to the Indian Penal Code (IPC). Disha Act He also called for amendments to the IPC and the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) to award stringent punishment for crime against women and girls on the lines of the Disha Act brought out by the State government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vijaya-sai-urges-centre-to-grant-scs-to-state/article33707669.ece
31 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Minister takes part in world edu meet||The government is trying to strike a balance between developing the basic infrastructure and ushering in the latest technology to meet the global educational standards, said Education Minister Adimulapu Suresh, on Saturday. Participating in the valedictory session on ‘What will school look like 10 years from now’, as part of a four-day The International Education and Skill Summit (TIESS) which started on January 27 in virtual mode, the Minister explained that the government’s focus was on improving the toilet facility in schools as a major chunk of girl students dropped out of schools in the absence of a proper toilet facility while women teaching staff too faced inconvenience. “We are developing infrastructure at the basic level while also introducing technology-enabled education in the classroom,” he said. Referring to the Amma Vodi scheme, he said mothers were being incentivised to send their children to school. “We are asking mothers to send their children to school where all their needs, including books, bags, stationery and other stuff would be taken care of,” he said, explaining that the objective was to increase enrolment and reduce drop-out rate besides addressing the gender parity issue. Vocational education He said the government had recognised the need and importance of vocational education to make students industry-ready. “For this, we need to catch them young, say in the eighth standard. The spirit of entrepreneurship should be inculcated in them at a young age and skilling is necessary to develop core competency traits in them,” he said. Mr. Suresh was among the more than 150 speakers drawn from 50 countries who participated in the four-day world summit that witnessed 30,000-plus delegates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/minister-talks-of-state-schemes-at-world-edu-meet/article33707759.ece
31 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||One death and 129 new cases in State||The State reported one COVID-19 death and 129 infections in the 24 hours ending Saturday morning. The lone death was reported from West Godavari district. The tally, therefore, increased to 8,87,720 and the toll reached 7,153. The recovery and mortality rates were 99.05% and 0.81% respectively. During the period, 147 patients recovered, leaving only 1,289 patients under treatment. The total number of recoveries increased to 8,79,278. The daily positivity rate of the 41,003 samples tested was 0.31%, and the overall rate of the 1.309 crore came down to 6.78%. The number of tests per million increased to 2.45 lakh, while the number of cases per million remained at 16,620. Krishna again reported 26 infections in the last one day. It was followed by Guntur and Visakhapatnam (17 each), Kurnool, Chittoor and East Godavari (12 each), Kadapa (9), Nellore (8), West Godavari (6), Anantapur (3), Srikakulam (2), and Prakasam and Vizianagaram (1 each). Krishna district, which has been witnessing the highest single-day tallies for the last few days, has one-fifth (261) of the total active cases in the State. East Godavari (177), Chittoor (148), Guntur (143) and Visakhapatnam (123) have 45% of the total active cases. The overall tallies were as follows: East Godavari (1,24,251), West Godavari (94,225), Chittoor (87,018), Guntur (75,491), Anantapur (67,641), Nellore (62,320), Prakasam (62,174), Kurnool (60,809), Visakhapatnam (59,750), Kadapa (55,255), Krishna (48,637), Srikakulam (46,121) and Vizianagaram (41,133).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/one-death-and-129-new-cases-in-state/article33707663.ece
31 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||445 nominations for sarpanch filed in district||As many as 445 nominations for post of sarpanch in gram panchayat elections were filed in 14 mandals across the district on Saturday. Similarly, 2,211 nominations for ward member posts were filed. So far 508 nominations for sarpanch post and 2,358 nominations for ward member posts have been filed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/445-nominations-for-sarpanch-filed-in-district/article33707756.ece
31 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vundavalli’s statements misleading: BJP||Former MP Vundavalli Arun Kumar is making misleading statements on the BJP and RSS, according to BJP leader Sudheesh Rambhotla. Addressing the media here on Saturday, Mr. Sudheesh wondered if Mr. Arun Kumar knew what Hinduism was all about. The senior Congress leader was misinterpreting the views and literary works of Swami Vivekananda and Dr. B.R. Ambedkar on Hindu religion, he alleged, and challenged Mr. Arun Kumar to come for a public debate on the issue. Finding fault with Mr. Arun Kumar’s purported statement that all those converting into other religions were Dalits, he questioned if it was true in the case of leaders such as former Chief Minister Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, Ahmed Patel and Robert Vadra. BJP Minority Morcha State president Sk. Baji and OBC Morcha president B. Venkata Siva Narayana were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vundavallis-statements-misleading-bjp/article33707667.ece
31 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Governor pays tributes to Mahatma Gandhi||Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan paid floral tributes to Mahatma Gandhi on his 73rd death anniversary, which was observed as Martyrs’ Day, at Raj Bhavan on Saturday. Mr. Harichandan, along with his Secretary M.K. Meena, Joint Secretary A. Shyam Prasad, and other officers, observed silence for two minutes on the occasion. Later, the Governor said that Mahatma Gandhi had achieved freedom through peace and non-violence. “Leaders of many countries are emulating his principles,” Mr. Harichandan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/governor-pays-tributes-to-mahatma-gandhi/article33707673.ece
31 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Youth held for sexually assaulting minor||The Two Town Police registered a case against a youth who allegedly sexually assaulted a 14-year-old minor girl on the city outskirts. The accused befriended the victim, who was his neighbour and allegedly assaulted her sexually and reportedly impregnated her. The police booked a case against the youth under Sections 376 and Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, 2012, said West Zone ACP K. Hanumantha Rao. The accused was arrested and was produced in the court on Saturday. In another case, a 30-year-old man was booked for allegedly misbehaving with a 12-year-old girl at Vidyadharapuram. Based on a complaint, the Disha Mahila Police Station staff registered the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/youth-held-for-sexually-assaulting-minor/article33707761.ece
31 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Domestic workers undergo skill upgradation||Women working as a domestic help from various slum areas in the city have walked out of a five-day ‘Skills Up-Gradation Trainings for Domestic Workers’ workshop with confidence and certificates here on Saturday. The workshop was organised by a non-governmental organisation Care and Share Italia under its programme Women4Change. Women Development and Child Welfare Project Director, Krishna district, K. Uma Rani, who was the chief guest, handed over the skill training certificates to the 20 participants at the valedictory of the workshop. ‘Don’t hesitate to seek help’ Speaking on the occasion, Ms. Uma Rani encouraged women workers to seek the support of the government when needed without any hesitation. Unlike in the past, there are many places like secretariats and Disha police stations for women to visit and raise their issues. “Do not hesitate to knock on any government office’s door if you are facing a problem. You can even visit Anganwadi centres and take the help of the staff there,” she said. Care and Share Italia director (operations) Pius Mathew said that the women who were working as a domestic help were given formal training in hospitality and aspects that would help them deliver their duty with confidence in a professional manner. ‘Nutrition is important’ They were also taught the importance of nutrition for working women. He said a total of 120 women were identified and would be trained in phases. The course was coordinated by M. Nalini and programme managers Arjun Machiraju and Jose Nalliveettil.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/domestic-workers-undergo-skill-upgradation/article33707753.ece
31 January 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||NDRF personnel prepared to take COVID vaccine||The National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) 10th Battalion personnel, who served in the frontline during the lockdown period, are prepared to take the vaccine against COVID-19, said NDRF Commandant Zahid Khan. After discussions with the personnel at their headquarters at the ANU campus in Guntur district on Saturday, he said all the personnel would take the vaccine in the first week of February. “The battalion has about 1,100 personnel and about 750 are positioned at the headquarters at Mangalagiri while the remaining force is deputed at the Regional Response Centres at Visakhapatnam and other places. The entire force will take the vaccine,” Mr. Khan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ndrf-personnel-prepared-to-take-covid-vaccine/article33707760.ece
31 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||APSFL will expand services, says chairman||Andhra Pradesh State FiberNet Limited (APSFL) is mulling to expand its services, said Chairman P. Goutham Reddy at a press conference here on Saturday. “We currently have around 10 lakh connections in the State, and are aiming to increase them to 50 lakh to 70 lakh in the next couple of years by providing good service to customers,” he said. Mr. Goutham Reddy visited Visakhapatnam for the first time after taking charge as Chairman of APFSL. Revealing future plans, he said that APSFL is also likely to get a new building in the city. “APSFL is currently operating from the first floor of the Andhra University counselling centre building near Platinum Jubilee Guest House on the Andhra University campus. As a single floor is not sufficient, we have sought access to the ground floor of the building also,” he said. “APSFL is likely to get a two-acre plot of land near Bheemili. A building with world-class infrastructure will be developed if everything goes well,” he told reporters. Mr. Gowtham Reddy said that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy is given top priority to the Internet.  ‘Essential part’ “Internet has become an essential part of our life. Mr. Jagan asked us to ensure that Internet reaches not just mandal headquarters, but every street of a village through APFSL,” he said. The Chairman added that APSFL is working with a dedicated team of engineers to ensure high network quality. “APSFL does not have any competition with private operators. We are good with our own brand. APFSL is providing good service to customers in the State and with the use of advanced technology, complaints are also being resolved quickly, he said. “APFSL is also in talks with Google to strengthen its network by increasing its speed, bandwidth and to provide much better services to customers,” the APSFL Chairman said, adding that that there are a number of packages that suits every purse.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/apsfl-to-expand-services-says-chairman/article33707696.ece
31 January 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||SEC vindictive towards State govt., says Botcha||Condemning the State Election Commissioner Nimmagadda Ramesh Kumar’s letter to the Governor, Minister for Municipal Administration & Urban Development (MA&UD) Botcha Satyanarayana said that the SEC has been vindictive towards the State government. The Minister also slammed the SEC for his comments during his visit to Kadapa district and alleged that speaking about issues unrelated to elections shows the dual attitude of Mr. Ramesh Kumar. Addressing a press conference at the YSRCP office here on Saturday, Mr. Botcha Satyanarayana said that the SEC repeatedly had crossed the ‘Lakshmana Rekha’ with his vindictive nature and had levelled charges against the Ministers. The letter itself was like terrorising the Governor, he said. “What is the need for the SEC to go to Kadapa district and make comments that are not relevant at all to the elections? Mr. Ramesh Kumar is acting more like a political leader and spoke about former Chief Minister Y.S. Rajashekar Reddy and CBI cases during his visit to Kadapa district,” he said. “Any person in the chair of State Election Commission must be impartial and work within the framework of the constitutional body. But here, the SEC has written a letter degrading the public representatives who are part of the State government,” he said. He also asserted that YSRCP would win the elections, irrespective of SEC’s attitude, or his secret political partnership with TDP president N. Chandrababu Naidu. “The government is encouraging peaceful elections in the State without any disturbances or chaos. Panchayat elections have to be held without the involvement of any political party for the development of villages,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sec-vindictive-towards-state-govt-says-botcha/article33707671.ece
31 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||N.N. Raju to head Indian Psychiatric Society||Dr. N.N. Raju has been elected as president-elect of the Indian Psychiatric Society in an election held in Kolkata on Friday. He is the third psychiatrist from the two Telugu-speaking States to be elected to this post, the others being Dr. Jaya Nagaraja and Dr. Indla Ramasubbareddy. Dr. N.N. Raju graduated from Andhra Medical College and did his post-graduation from Central Institute of Psychiatry. After a short stint at Christian Medical College (CMC) Vellore, Dr. Raju started his professional career as Assistant Professor at Government Hospital for Mental Care,Visakhapatnam, and later retired as its Superintendent. He was Vice-Principal of Andhra Medical College and was National General Secretary of the Indian Psychiatric Society.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/nn-raju-head-of-indian-psychiatric-society/article33707700.ece
31 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||School upgradation project gets 3 survey approvals: Srijana||Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) Commissioner G. Srijana said that the National Institute of Urban Affairs (NIUA), New Delhi, has approved the Environment and Social Screening Report, Environment and Social Impact Assessment (ESIA) Report and the Baseline Report for the upgradation of school project, which are being done as part of CITIIS (City Investments to Innovate, Integrate and Sustain) project. The survey was carried out in the GVMC schools and the reports were sent to the NIUA recently, she said in a press release here on Saturday. “Endorsement of Communication and Outreach Plan (COP), Environment and Social Management Plan (ESMP) and Monitoring and Evaluation (M and E) reports are still to be approved,” she said. The Greater Visakhapatnam Smart City Corporation Limited (GVSCCL) had short-lised 45 GVMC schools to be developed as part of CITIIS project. In this regard, stakeholder inputs and opinions were collected from schools and accordingly plans and designs are being modified. Ms. Srijana said that the GVSCCL is gearing up to complete designs and cost estimates by February. Further it would proceed for tendering in March, she added. “Various innovative activities and campaigns are being designed for the next six months, as part of the outreach programmes, to create awareness regarding development activities being carried out in the GVMC schools,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/school-upgradation-project-gets-3-survey-approvals-srijana/article33707764.ece
31 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rich tributes paid to Mahatma||Officials from Andhra University paid rich tributes to Mahatma Gandhi on the occasion of his death anniversary at his statue near the administrative building on the campus here on Saturday. Vice-Chancellor P.V.G.D. Prasad Reddy recalled the freedom struggle waged by Gandhi. He said that Gandhi had devoted his life for the freedom struggle and well-being of every Indian. He said that Gandhi has taught the importance of truth (Satyam) and non-violence (Ahimsa) to the world. Rector K. Samatha, Registrar V. Krishna Mohan and principals of various colleges were present. The teaching and non-teaching staff of GITAM Deemed to be University observed a two-minute silence and paid floral tributes at Mahatma Gandhi Statue on Saturday. GITAM Vice-Chancellor K. Sivaramakrishna said that Gandhi’s political contributions had played a key role in the country attaining Independence and his ideology still enlightening the present generation. Lecture delivered Noted Gandhian Scholar and India Nirman Sangh founder David Barun Kumar Thomas delivered a lecture on ‘The increasing relevance of Gandhi’s teachings’. GITAM School of Gandhian Studies, Department of Humanities and Social Sciences head A. Sasikala, and others participated in the programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rich-tributes-paid-to-gandhi/article33707698.ece
31 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Over 4.81 lakh children to get polio vaccine in district today||District Medical & Health Officer (DMHO) P. Suryanarayana said that the department has set a target to administer polio drops to 4,81,517 children from zero to five years of age in the district in the Pulse Polio Immunisation programme scheduled to be held on Sunday. Addressing a press conference here on Saturday, Dr. Suryanarayana said that as part of the programme, as many as 3,786 polio centres, 123 transit centres and 168 mobile centres are being arranged in the district. He also said that the department has appointed 15,144 vaccinators and 379 supervising staff for the conduct of the programme. He said that the department has identified high-risk areas which includes slums, brick kilns, construction areas, fishermen villages and areas with poor road connectivity in the district. “We have identified 15,746 children living in those high- risk areas and steps are being taken to administer vaccine to all of them,” he said. He said that the programme will be held in the booths on Sunday and a door-to-door campaign will be conducted from February 1 to 3. He said that the last polio case was reported from the country in 2011 and in Andhra Pradesh in July 2008. In Visakhapatnam the last case was reported in January 2007, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/over-481-lakh-children-to-get-polio-vaccine-in-district-today/article33707766.ece
31 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police extend ‘Marpu’ for misguided youth||The city police has extended its recently launched programme ‘Marpu’ to the youth who are getting addicted to drugs and other activities such as bike racing. It is basically going to be a counselling centre. Initially, the programme was started to give a chance to rowdies, who are listed at various police station, to reform. But keeping in mind the recent trend of youth getting addicted to various types of drugs and some indulging in anti-social activities, Police Commissioner Manish Kumar Sinha has decided to extend the programme to them. It has been noticed that in the city, FIRs are being registered against some youth for violating law. Cases subsequently hamper their career apart from disturbing their lives, said Mr. Sinha. According to him, use of drugs and bike racing or driving bikes at a very high speed, are some of the areas of concern, as sometimes they result in fatal accidents. To wean away the youth from these kinds of activities and to give them a chance to join the mainstream, the purview of ‘Marpu’ has been extended. Counselling centre will comprise one officer each from the Social Welfare, Police and, the Medical and Health Departments. The officers will be assisted by a counsellor or psychologist. The committee will sit in room No. 15, in Swarna Bharathi Indoor Stadium on all Mondays starting from February 1 from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. For any emergencies one can dial 100 and confidentiality of the persons will be maintained.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-extend-marpu-for-misguided-youth/article33707772.ece
31 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||AU inks MoU with YMCA on global students||Officials from Andhra University signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with Young Men's Christian Association (YMCA) here on Saturday. AU Vice-Chancellor P.V.G.D, Prasad Reddy has signed the MoU along with YMCA president Mathew Peter. Speaking on the occasion, Prof. Prasad Reddy said that as part of MoU, YMCA will provide accommodation and other basic facilities to the international students. He said that in the last few years, the number of International students in studying in AU has doubled. Students from over 20 various countries are pursuing several courses in the varsity. He also added that keeping in view the increase in number of students, the varsity is also constructing new hostels. YMCA member Roland Williams said that as of now the YMCA is providing accommodation to 60 international students in 30 rooms for a very reasonable price. Students are also being provided gym, Wi-Fi, TV room, kitchen, washing machines, security facilities, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/au-inks-mou-with-ymca-on-global-students/article33707768.ece
31 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Social exclusion against spirit of universal brotherhood’||The Centre for Study of Social Exclusion and Inclusive Policy (CSSEIP), Andhra University, organised a one-day national webinar on “Religious Minorities: Identity, Social Exclusion and Inclusion” here on Saturday. Registrar V. Krishna Mohan, who attended the event as chief guest, inaugurated the programme. Mr. Krishna Mohan said that discrimination and exclusion of any class of people were not desirable and they lead to underdevelopment of the nation. Social exclusion of people is against the spirit of universal brotherhood and equality, he added. Senior Advocate, District Court, Visakhapatnam, Jaha Aara, is among those who attended.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/social-exclusion-against-spirit-of-universal-brotherhood/article33707763.ece
31 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||775 nominations received for sarpanch posts||The District Panchayat Officer received 775 nominations for sarpanches the first phase of panchayat elections in Anakapalle sub-division, here on Saturday. This takes the total of nominations for sarpanches to 969.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/775-nominations-received-for-sarpanch-posts/article33707773.ece
31 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police counsel beach photographers||The city police conducted a counselling session for photographers, who take photos at Rama Krishna Beach, here on Saturday. Three Town police counselled the beach photographers on how to behave politely with the tourists. The police also asked them to inform them if they find any suspicious activities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-counsel-beach-photographers/article33707767.ece
31 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||ATC||GVMC Additional Commissioner V. Sanyasi Rao inaugurated science laboratory which was constructed with the financial aid given by management of Coromandel Fertilizers at GVMC High School, Gandhigram, here on Saturday. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Sanyasi Rao said that the had sanctioned Rs. 5.35 lakh for construction of the science lab. K. Ranga Kumar and J. Mahesh from Coromandel Fertilzsers attended the programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/atc/article33707769.ece
31 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Contractor worker dies in accident||A contract worker reportedly died in an accident that occurred at a factory in Sriharipuram under Malkapuram police station limits here on late on Saturday night. Malkapuram police have reached the spot and are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/contractor-worker-dies-in-accident/article33707770.ece
31 January 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||HPCL to organise bicycle rally today||As part of the month-long programme ‘Saksham’ (Sanrakshan Kshamta Mahotsav), which is being organised by the Oil and Gas Central Public Sector Enterprises, the HPCL will organise a bicycle rally (cyclothon) on Sunday. The cyclothon will begin at 6 a.m. near YMCA on Beach Road.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hpcl-to-organise-bicycle-rally-today/article33707771.ece
31 January 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Padala Aruna quits TDP||The TDP suffered a setback in Vizianagaram district ahead of the panchayat elections with its senior leader and former Minister Padala Aruna quitting the party on Saturday. Ms. Aruna had represented the TDP from the Gajapathinagaram Assembly constituency between 1989 and 1999. Addressing the media at Gajapathinagaram, Ms. Aruna said she had resigned from the primary membership of the Telugu Desam Party, and thanked party national president N. Chandrababu Naidu for providing her an opportunity to serve the party. Mr. Aruna had served as Minister for Women and Child Welfare when Mr. Naidu was the Chief Minister of the combined State. She was reportedly unhappy with the party leadership as she was not accommodated in the recently announced committees. Former Telugu Desam Party MLA Gadde Babu Rao, who had joined the BJP, reportedly met her recently. Ms. Aruna, however, said that she would reveal her future plans after consulting her supporters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/padala-aruna-quits-tdp/article33707666.ece
31 January 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||SFI stages protest||Activists of the Students Federation of India staged a protest here on Saturday demanding that the government start admission process in MR College and other colleges affiliated to MANSAS Trust. They said that several students facing problems due to the delay in admission process .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sfi-stages-protest/article33707688.ece
31 January 2021||January 31 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Polio vaccine drive today||Polio vaccination drive will be conducted across the district on Sunday at 2,568 centres involving 10,978 staff. District Collector A.Md. Imtiaz and other officials conducted a polio vaccination awareness rally in the city highlighting the need for polio vaccination for children aged below five years. Speaking on the occasion Mr. Imtiaz said that there were 4.06 lakh children aged below five in the district and 5.60 lakh vaccine doses were made available in the district. He said 97 mobile teams were set up in the district to reach out to remote areas. He asked officials to ensure COVID-19 safety norms were followed at the polio vaccine centres without fail as children were involved. He said that children who could not get the vaccine on Sunday would be administered the vaccine at their doorsteps by ASHA workers on February 1 and 2. District Medical and Health Officer M. Suhasini said that on February 3, doorstep polio drop administration campaign would be held in Vijayawada Municipal Corporation limits.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/polio-vaccine-drive-today/article33707755.ece
31 January 2021||January 31 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Waiting their turn||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/waiting-their-turn/article33707775.ece
31 January 2021||January 31 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Waiting their turn||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/waiting-their-turn/article33707702.ece
31 January 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Clamour for mining varsity grows louder||The long-standing demand for a mining university in the coal mining hub of Kothagudem is growing louder with several student unions making a fervent appeal to TRS MPs to press for the Centre’s nod for the mining university in the current Budget session of Parliament. Various students’ unions, mainly the SFI, have been consistently demanding the setting up of a mining university in the mineral rich and coal mining centre of Kothagudem to provide higher education and employment opportunities to the local youth in the mining industry. The vociferous demands from students and youth organisations prompted the authorities concerned to forward a proposal to upgrade the University College of Engineering (Kakatiya University) in Kothagudem into a mining university in 2016.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/clamour-for-mining-varsity-grows-louder/article33707470.ece
31 January 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Beware! Loud thump can land you in trouble||Blaring sound of your bike’s modified silencer will land you in trouble as Hyderabad traffic police launched a special drive to book erring motorcycle owners with levy penalties. An awareness and counselling session was organised by Hyderabad traffic police at KBR Park, and Banjara Hills on Saturday and the violators were apprised of the consequences thereof. It was part of National Road Safety month. In January alone, police booked 1,134 cases against the violators for modifying company-fitted silencers. Counselling with the traffic norms violators, Additional Commissioner of Police (Traffic) Anil Kumar said that such modification causes air and sound pollution. “Mainly two-wheeler drivers are removing the company fitted silencers and fixing silencers which are emitting more noise causing a lot of irritation and inconvenience to people - especially senior citizens residing near schools and hospitals. He said that a sound level above 65 decibels is injurious to health and if it clocks 75 decibels, it might cause serious health issues such as hypertension, anxiety and cardiovascular diseases. As per Section 190 of the Motor Vehicles Act, any person who violates the standards prescribed in relation to road safety and causes noise and air-pollution shall be punishable under the law. Mr. Kumar said that notices would be issued to the automobile shops and mechanics to stop selling modified silencers and not to fix such tampered silencers to vehicles. Cases will be booked in case they violate the notice, he said. The first-of-its-kind counselling session was attended by over 200 bikers who modified the silencers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/beware-loud-thump-can-land-you-in-trouble/article33707463.ece
31 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Another tranche of capital projects for Telangana||The Central government has approved capital projects of Rs. 179 crore for Telangana in addition to the projects of similar amount that were cleared for the State earlier. Additional projects were approved for the State as an incentive for undertaking reforms in three out of four stipulated citizen-centric areas, One Nation One Ration Card, Ease of Doing Business and Urban Local Bodies’ reforms. The fourth area is power sector reforms, said a press release. The approval was given under the newly-launched scheme of ‘financial assistance to States for capital projects’. With this, Telangana became the second State to get additional funds under the scheme. Earlier, Madhya Pradesh was sanctioned additional capital projects worth Rs. 660 crore as an incentive to undertake reforms in three out of four stipulated areas. Out of the additional approved amount of Rs. 179 crore, a sum of Rs. 89.50 crore has been released to the State as first instalment. All the capital projects identified by government for taking up from additional funds are in the roads’ sector. The scheme of ‘special assistance to States for capital expenditure’ was announced by Union Finance Minister on October 12 last year as part of Aatmanirbhar Bharat package. It was aimed at boosting capital expenditure by State governments facing difficult financial environment due to the shortfall in tax revenue arising from the COVID pandemic. The scheme received good response from State governments as capital expenditure proposals of Rs. 10,835.50 crore of 27 States were approved by Finance Ministry. A sum of Rs. 5,417.70 crore was already released to the States as first instalment under the scheme. Tamil Nadu did not avail the benefit. The capital expenditure projects were approved in diverse sectors of the economy like health, rural development, water supply, roads and bridges, irrigation, power, transport, education and urban development. The scheme had three parts. Part I covered the north-eastern and hill States, Part II was for all other States not included in Part I and Part III at pushing various citizen centric reforms in States. The last amount was available only to those States which carried out by February 15, 2021, at least three out of four reforms specified by the Finance Ministry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/another-tranche-of-capital-projects-for-telangana/article33707475.ece
31 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Population-specific drug trials are the way forward: CCMB||Population-specific trials and not common drug clinical trials for the entire world for any new medicine is important because of the presence of variant genes responsible for drug metabolism, say scientists of the CSIR-Centre for Cellular & Molecular Biology (CCMB) on Saturday. Senior scientist K. Thangaraj, now director of the Centre for DNA Fingerprinting and Diagnostics (CDFD), and his team recently published the study of diversity of ‘CYP2C9’ gene or ‘Cytochrome-P450-2C9’ which is responsible for metabolism of a wide range of drugs, including anti-epileptic drug Phenytoin and anti-hypersensitive drug Losartan, in the journal ‘Pharmacogenomics and Personalized Medicine’. CYP2C9 gene sequence changes may affect production of CYP2C9 protein in the human liver and this can cause slower metabolism of drugs like slower or a reduced rate of excretion of the drug. Such drugs have a narrow therapeutic index ,which means they are tolerated by our bodies in very specific amounts and when retained in the body for a longer period, can lead to toxicity. Right dosage Hence, it is important to decide the right dosage for each individual depending on the CYP2C9 gene sequence. This is also the reason why doctor-prescribed drugs fail to treat the disease and instead, lead to responses like rashes, vomiting, nausea or no response at all, sometimes. The blueprint of the proteins metabolising the drugs is in the genes of the person concerned and gene variations occur in a population. Gene variation low Yet, gene variation is less when the population is more endogamous such as in many communities of India. However, since the country has become a global destination for clinical trials of various drugs, it is important to study variants of genes for drug metabolism. “We found eight new variants of the CYP2C9 gene, making a total of 11 known variants in South Asia,” said Nizamuddin, first author in the study. “CYP2C9 gene variations knowledge will help doctors decide on the right dosage of medicine for each patient and will also be vital for conducting meaningful clinical trials,” said Dr Thangaraj, the corresponding author. No correlation The study found no correlation between any of these variants with the linguistic and geographical population groups. But, a few Indian populations have more than 20% with a deleterious variant of CYP2C9 gene or ‘CYP2C9*3’ which reduces the ability to metabolise drugs. The eight new variants found in this study are also predicted to have a similar effect. “Healthcare is now moving towards personalised medicine and our studies on genetic diversity of India will play a key role in this transition,” said CCMB director Rakesh Mishra.  We found eight new variants of the CYP2C9 gene, making a total of 11 known variants in South Asia. Nizamuddin, First author of study||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/population-specific-drug-trials-are-the-way-forward-ccmb/article33707452.ece
31 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Hospital using single-use device to curb infections||AIG Hospitals has started using disposable duodenoscope to operate on patients, a first in Asia, said the hospital management, adding that chances of hospital-acquired infection (HAI) is minimised since the device is used only once. A traditional duodenoscope — a flexible endoscopic device — is used to diagnose as well as treat diseases and disorders of pancreas and bile ducts. Cause of mortality However, doctors at the hospital said that since it is very difficult to completely sterilise the complex tip of the duodenoscope, there are chances of infection. They said HAI is one of the leading causes of mortality, especially for very sick patients, across the world. This challenge was addressed using the disposable duodenoscope. Chairman and Chief of Gastroenterology at AIG Hospitals, D. Nageshwar Reddy said the threat of HAI is significantly minimised using the disposable duodenoscope. At a virtual press conference held on Saturday, he showed the device and explained how it is used. At the hospital, it was used on a 93-year-old male patient who was admitted with complaint of abdominal pain. Upon diagnosis, it was found that he suffered from severe Cholangitis (infection of the bile duct), leading to septicemia, and his blood pressure was dropping. There were four large stones in his bile duct. Doctors said risk of sepsis leading to mortality would have increased if a traditional duodenoscope was used. Challenge for doctors The team of doctors led by Dr Nageshwar performed the complex ERCP procedure to remove the stones from the bile duct using the disposable duodenoscope. However, the team was posed with another challenge. One among the four stones was big, measuring two cm, and could not be removed using standard technique. “To remove the big stone stuck in the bile duct, we had to innovate on the go and use another disposable Spy Cholangioscope with Laser Lithotripsy. This Spy Cholangioscope was used in combination with the single-use duodenoscope. Using precise Laser Lithotripsy, the large stone was fragmented and extracted out of the bile duct,” said Mohan Ramchandani, director-Therapeutic Endoscopy, AIG Hospitals. The patient was discharged the next day. Dr Nageshwar said this is the start of a new era in therapeutic endoscopy where disposable duodenoscope will change the entire math of HAI, especially for vulnerable patients like the elderly, those in Intensive Care Units (ICU), or with compromised immune system.  This is the start of a new era in therapeutic endoscopy where disposable duodenoscope will change the entire math of hospital-acquired infection. D. Nageshwar Reddy, Chairman and Chief of Gastroenterology at AIG Hospitals||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hospital-relies-on-single-use-device-to-curb-infections/article33707446.ece
31 January 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||BJP leaders have cheated turmeric farmers: Revanth||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders, including Ram Madhav, Bandi Sanjay and Arvind Dharmapuri, were under fire from TPCC working president A. Revanth Reddy, who termed them ‘Liars from a Liars Party’ for ‘cheating’ turmeric farmers after making tall promises before the 2019 Parliament elections. Mr. Reddy said that in the presence of Mr. Ram Madhav, Nizamabad MP Arvind signed the bond paper promising a turmeric board within five days if he was elected. “So, the responsibility lies with Mr. Ram Madhav as well as Bandi Sanjay whose Karimnagar Parliamentary constituency has a large number of turmeric farmers,” he said. The Malkajgiri MP was on Saturday speaking at the Rajiv Rythu Bharosa programme at Armoor, organised by the Nizamabad Congress, demanding remunerative price for turmeric crop and setting up of the Turmeric Board. AICC secretary Madhu Yaskhi, MLC T. Jeevan Reddy, MLA Seetakka, and former ministers Shabbir Ali and P. Sudarshan Reddy also spoke. He offered to make all arrangements if turmeric farmers wished to hold a protest at Jantar Mantar in Delhi or any other place to pressurise the BJP government for establishment of the turmeric board. Mr. Reddy said that all that the Central government needed to spend was Rs. 100 crore per year for the turmeric board that would serve thousands of farmers who produce 2.94 lakh tonnes of turmeric. In Nizamabd district alone, it is cultivated in 50,000 acres but farmers were not getting more than Rs. 5,000 per tonne. During the Congress rule, the price touched Rs. 15,000 per tonne, he said. He added that Prime Minister Narendra Modi promised to double the income of farmers by 2020 but failed to even set up a turmeric board in Nizamabad. As of now only 6% of turmeric is being exported but with the board, exports would increase and farmers would have access to more markets and money. The Congress leader also targeted Bandi Sanjay saying that he speaks loud against the Chief Minister, but is silent on seeking action against his ‘corruption and unfulfilled promises’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bjp-leaders-have-cheated-turmeric-farmers-revanth/article33707477.ece
31 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||1,986 more HCWs in private facilities take COVID shots||Health department staff administered COVID-19 vaccine to 1,986 Healthcare Workers (HCW) in the private sector on Saturday. The immunisation drive was conducted across 10 districts. Though the target was 4,021 HCWs, 49.4% of beneficiaries turned up to take the vaccine. Four vaccine recipients suffered minor Adverse Event Following Immunisation (AEFI), but their condition was stable. From January 16 to 30, a little over 1.68 lakh HCWs have received the COVID-19 vaccine. The vaccination drive would resume on February 3 as Pulse Polio programme would be conducted from January 31 to February 2.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/1986-more-hcws-in-private-facilities-take-covid-shots/article33707450.ece
31 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Pack of dogs maul boy to death||A pack of dogs attacked and killed a nine-year-old boy near Musi River at Bahadurpura on Saturday. As per preliminary information from GHMC Veterinary wing officials, the boy, Mohammed Ayan, along with a couple of friends, went to the open grasslands close to Musi River to fly kites. A pack of dogs that had got habituated to attack and kill sheep/goats grazing in the open space along the river, reached the location. When the boys tried to drive them away by throwing stones, the canines turned around and attacked them.  While two boys ran away, the nine-year-old victim fell down and became easy victim to the attacking pack.  Case registered A case of suspicious death was filed in the Bahadurpura police station, officials informed. As a follow up measure, dogs from both banks of the river will be rounded up starting from Sunday, vaccinated for rabies, and operated upon for birth control, they said, without specifying how that could prevent future attacks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/pack-of-dogs-maul-boy-to-death/article33707461.ece
31 January 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||3,178 children rescued under Operation Smile||A fun-filled trip of a Kurnool-based family to historic Charminar in 2005 left them in sorrow as their two-and-a-half-year-old daughter went missing. Bringing cheers to the family after 15 years, the girl was traced and handed over to them by the Cyberabad police recently. As part of the ‘Operation Smile’ phase-VII, the Anti Human Trafficking Unit of Cyberabad visited a child care home and enquired about the inmates. After they compared the details of the missing girl with the missing cases registered in 2005, they finally identified her and she was handed over to the family members. Similarly, a 14-year-old boy who went missing in 2014 from Nalgonda town was reunited with his parents. Under ‘Operation Smile’, missing children details were entered in DARPAN app, a unique facial recognition tool developed by Telangana police, which would be matched with lakhs of images from various databases across the country. As many as 3,178 missing children, including 277 girls, engaged as labourers or seeking alms across the State, were rescued by Telangana police during the month-long drive to trace missing children in January. Of them, a total of 2,373 children are from Telangana, while the remaining 805 belong to other States. Of the rescued children, 2,188 were reunited with their families while 990 were sent to rescue homes. These children were engaged in child labour, micro industries and begging while many others were trafficked. While 630 children were found as bonded labourers, 147 were working in brick kilns, 116 were seeking alms, 717 were moving on the streets, and 1,768 rescued children were working at various places, police said. They said that 442 people were booked in 380 cases under different sections of laws, including Child Labour Act, Juvenile Justice Act and Bonded Labour Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/3178-children-rescued-under-operation-smile/article33707466.ece
31 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||CPI leaders lambast Central govt.||Former national general secretary of Communist Party of India Suravaram Sudhakar Reddy affirmed that withdrawing the three farm laws and the Electricity Act were the only ways before the Central government to convince farmer groups on the Delhi border to withdraw their protest. Mr. Sudharkar Reddy spoke on Saturday at a press conference on the sidelines of the ongoing National Council meeting of the CPI, in place of the incumbent national general secretary D. Raja, who had to be shifted to hospital midway through the meeting due to indisposition. Mr. Sudhakar Reddy alleged conspiracy behind the violent turn of the farmers’ protest, and sought to know how tractors could reach the Red Fort when over 6,000 policemen were guarding the roads. He also questioned how TV channels came to know about the change in timings of the tractor rally from 11 a.m. to 6 a.m. on January 26, and why all the channels chose to show only the developments at the Red Fort instead of the rally with one lakh tractors. Also lambasting the Central government for neglecting the spread of COVID-19, he said that PM Narendra Modi should own responsibility for it. The country is in severe economic crisis as a result of COVID, and the Centre should take measures in the upcoming Budget to alleviate the situation for the unemployed, migrant labourers, and poor vendors, he demanded. General secretary of the All India Kisan Sabha Atul Anjan said that the farmers’ struggle would continue till the three laws were scrapped, and agricultural produce of all kinds brought under MSP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cpi-leaders-lambast-central-govt/article33707481.ece
31 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Peak demand for power recorded in State||Telangana recorded the highest-ever peak demand of power when it clocked the load of about 13,200 megawatt on the system at 8.59 a.m. on Saturday. According to officials of the Transmission Corporation of Telangana Ltd (TS-Transco), the previous record of highest peak demand of power was on February 28 last year when the system clocked the load of 13,168 mw. Energy consumption Energy consumption in a day is also expected to surpass the previous record of 256.18 million units on March 18 last year. The officials stated that the load on the system was clocked over 13,000 mw on three days during the last week of February 2020 and the energy consumption was recorded over 250 million units on 13 days in February and March last year. Post lockdown in March last year the load on the system had falled significantly. This year the power demand on the system has been clocked over 13,000 mw on four days already this month and the energy consumption too was over 250 million units on four days so far. On January 22, the peak demand was 13,157 mw, officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/peak-demand-for-power-recorded-in-state/article33707456.ece
31 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||186 new virus cases in TS||Telangana recorded 186 COVID-19 cases on Friday, taking the total to 2,94,306. While 33,088 people were examined, results of 902 were awaited. The death toll stands at 1,598 with two more patients succumbing to the virus. The new 186 cases include 34 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation, 12 from Rangareddy and 11 from Karimnagar. No case was detected in Narayanpet and Jogulamba-Gadwal, and while there was just one positive case in Kumaram Bheem Asifabad. So far, 78,23,989 people have been through tests. Of the total cases, 2,354 are active while 2,90,354 have recovered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/186-new-virus-cases-in-ts/article33707448.ece
31 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||1st retirement function for Secretariat staffers||Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar instructed officials to prepare a SOP to be followed for retirement functions of State government employees as desired by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao to give them a warm send-off. Speaking at a retirement function held in the make-shift Secretariat (BRKR Bhavan) here on Saturday, he said that as suggested by the CM, it should be a practice to drop employees home in the government vehicle on the day of retirement. Additional Secretary (GA) G. Krishnaveni, Deputy Secretary (ITE&C) T. Padma Sundari, Assistant Secretary (MW) Mohd. Naseer, Assistant Secretary (PR&RD) B. Manjula, Section Officer (TR&B) Arjun Singh, Section Assistant Gr-II (Finance) Paul Francis and Office Subordinate (GA) N. Gangamma, all working in the Secretariat, retired on Saturday on attaining the age of superannuation. A retirement function for Secretariat employees was held for the first time on Saturday, he noted. All the secretaries of departments from where the employees were retiring took part.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/1st-retirement-function-for-secretariat-employees/article33707472.ece
31 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||NMC vice chairman visits TMREIS, Waqf Board||Vice chairman of National Minorities Commission, Atif Rasheed, visited Telangana State Waqf Board and a school of Telangana Minorities Residential Educational Institutions Society (TMREIS) and interacted with heads of department and other officials. Mr Rasheed, in the presence of TMREIS secretary B Shafiullah visited TMREIS’ Bahadurpura Girls – 2 school in Nawabsaheb Kunta where he was shown various initiatives and the school curriculum. He was also shown classrooms, dormitories, wellness centre, and dining halls, among other facilities. He interacted with the staff who explained to him how the schools have been functioning. Mr. Rasheed observed how students from the weaker sections of society have been benefitting from studying in TMREIS schools. In a separate development, the Mr Rasheed visited the Telangana State Waqf Board and interacted with its chairman Mohammed Saleem who explained that there are 33,929 waqf properties and over 77,000 acres in the State. Mr Saleem also touched upon the payment of honorarium to imams and muezzins, among other initiatives.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/nmc-vice-chairman-visits-tmreis-waqf-board/article33707471.ece
31 January 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Importance of college autonomy stressed||Government City College organised a webinar on “Autonomy Importance and NAAC related Report Writing and Documentation” in which 300 faculty members from different colleges were exposed to the nuances of Autonomy and the methods of proper documentation. It was organised to mark the college’s application for renewal of autonomy in April this year. Commissioner of Collegiate Education, Navin Mittal explained how all government degree colleges in the State were provided with technical, infrastructural and financial support for getting through the NAAC accreditation. Member of NAAC peer team and UGC committee, Dharmadhikari held a brainstorming session enlightening the participants on the accreditation process. He focussed on the role of teacher as a facilitator between students and society. College principal V. Vijayalakshmi also addressed the participants.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/importance-of-college-autonomy-stressed/article33707455.ece
31 January 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Intermediate exam fee date is Feb. 11||The last date for payment of fee for Intermediate examinations is February 11. The fee will be applicable to all the first and second-year regular students, failed candidates (general and vocational) and attendance exempted private candidates (without college study for humanities groups). Those who fail to pay on time can pay with a penal fee. Fee can be paid with a late fee of Rs. 100 from February 12 to 22; with a late fee of Rs. 500 from February 23 to March 2; with a late fee of Rs. 1,000 from March 3 to 9. With a penal fee of Rs. 2,000 students can pay the exam fee March 10 to 16.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/intermediate-exam-fee-date-is-feb-11/article33707459.ece
31 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Govt. should educate ryots on crop pattern change’||Responsibility of educating, guiding and diverting farmers towards a change in crop pattern lies on governments, to prevent farmers from suffering losses by taking up cultivation of only traditional crops, Minister for Agriculture Niranjan Reddy said. A nine-member team led by Mr. Niranjan Reddy including director of Horticulture L. Venkatram Reddy and Vice-Chancellor of Sri Konda Laxman Telanagana State Horticultural University Neeraja Prabhakar visited Mysuru and Ramanagara (Karnataka) and Hosur (Tamil Nadu) on Saturday to study the best practices in sericulture, bamboo culture and food technology. On Saturday, they visited the bamboo research centre of Gromore Biotech Ltd., and India’s biggest cocoon market at Ramanagara.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/govt-should-educate-ryots-on-crop-pattern-change/article33707474.ece
31 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Demand for pay for degree guest teachers||The Telangana Unemployed Joint Action Committee staged a protest at the Education Minister’s office on Saturday demanding issuance of orders for renewal of contract for 1,940 guest lecturers teaching in 132 government degree colleges. The guest lecturers were not being paid any remuneration although the online classes had begun in September last itself. As the colleges were set to re-open from February 1, the guest lecturers were a worried lot as they have neither received renewal orders nor the remuneration for the last several months. President of National BC Welfare Association R. Krishnaiah, vice-president G. Krishna and president of the Unemployed JAC N. Venkatesh spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/demand-for-pay-for-degree-guest-teachers/article33707473.ece
31 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Over 23,000 booths ready for Pulse Polio drive today||The State Health department would conduct Pulse Polio programme at booth level on Sunday. On February 1 and 2, house-to-house activity would be taken up to immunise the children (0-5 years) who miss the drops. Due to the large extent of area in Hyderabad, the programme would be conducted in the city on February 3 too. Health department officials have requested parents to bring their children to booths for administering Pulse Polio drops. Measures will be taken to avoid crowding at booths. “bOPV vaccine will be administered to children in the 0-5 years age group at the booths and for others during house-to-house activity. There will be special emphasis on immunising children of high risk groups such as nomads, migrants, urban slum dwellers and those working in brick kilns,” said Vakati Karuna, Commissioner of Health and Family Welfare department. There are over 38.31 lakh children in the 0-5 years age group. The drive would be conducted at 23,331 booths. Around 50.14 lakh doses of bOPV vaccine doses have been supplied to districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/over-23000-booths-ready-for-pulse-polio-drive-today/article33707451.ece
31 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Eco-washing at RGIA for safe travel||GMR Hyderabad International Airport has introduced one more initiative towards safe travel, a ‘waterless eco-washing’ facility to sanitise cars. This service includes — exterior cleaning, vacuum cleaning, tyre clean and polish, air freshener, dashboard dressing, deep clean services. This helps in the complete sanitisation of the vehicles and ensures a safe travel. One of the kiosks is located at the entrance of the Car Parking zone – C and one kiosk dedicated to taxis near the airport lodge at the taxi staging area. Irrespective of the location, service will be provided at the location where the vehicle is parked within the airport car park. The service is available 24/7, 100% contactless, tech enabled service for the ease of the customers. Both cash and digital payments can be made, a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/eco-washing-at-rgia-for-safe-travel/article33707444.ece
31 January 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Job for wife of doctor who died of COVID-19||Minister E. Rajender on Saturday has handed over a copy of government order granting government job as an administrative officer to G Pavani, wife of medical officer Dr G Naresh Kumar, who died of COVID-19 on August 7, 2020. Dr. Naresh, who served as deputy District Medical and Health Officer (DMHO) in Bhadradri-Kothagudem, headed the Manuguru-based quarantine centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/job-for-wife-of-doctor-who-died-of-covid-19/article33707467.ece
31 January 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Blood donation camp organised (picture briefly)||A blood donation camp was organised by Hyderabad city police for Thalassemia Sickle Cell Society Children on Saturday. Over 150 persons donated blood. The event was inaugurated by Commissioner of Police Anjani Kumar and Additional Commissioner of Police (Crimes and SIT) Shikha Goel. “Police personnel, officers, HCSCSTREE volunteers, traffic volunteers and civilians have come forward and donated blood for the noble cause,” Mr. Kumar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/blood-donation-camp-organised-picture-briefly/article33707464.ece
31 January 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||TRS : Keshava Rao||TRS Parliamentary Party leader K. Keshava Rao said that the party would raise its concern over the new farm bills in Parliament, and rejected the charge that TRS had retracted on its opposition to the bills. He, however, said that the party would not justify violence during the farmers’ rally on Republic Day. He added that TRS did not join the Opposition parties’ boycott of the President’s address as it would send a message that the party supports violence. He requested the Central government to take the farmers’ demand into consideration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/trs-keshava-rao/article33707479.ece
31 January 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Brf||The Telangana Girijana Sangham has sought the intervention of Minister for ST, Women and Child Welfare Satyavathi Rathod in ensuring setting up of an Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA) in residual Khammam district. A delegation of TGS led by dist. general secretary Bukya Veerabhadram submitted a memorandum to the Minister. She inaugurated the Government ST women’s working hostel on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/brf/article33707484.ece
31 January 2021||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Visit schools on reopening day: Harish||Public representatives should visit schools on reopening day and have lunch with students to understand their problems, Finance Minister Harish Rao said on Saturday. Participating at the general body meeting of Zilla Parishad, presided over by Chairperson P. Manjusree, here on Saturday, he said that required funds were available with local bodies and could be spent to take up works in schools. He asked officials if all steps were in place to reopen schools from Monday. Some of the members complained about pathetic condition of toilets and lack of water facility. The Minister directed the DEO to look into the issues and address them immediately. When Munipally ZPTC complained of dilapidated condition of some schools, he directed officials to give permission within 48 hours to take up repairs. Earlier, he made a surprise visit to the Collectorate and found some seats empty even after 10.30 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/visit-schools-on-reopening-day-harish/article33707482.ece
31 January 2021||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||BRF||A farmer couple, Sujatha and Satyanarayana, from Dadi Gudem village in Jinnaram mandal threatened to commit suicide alleging that repeated attempts to get their land issue sorted were not addressed by officials. They came to the Zilla Parishad office on Saturday, where the general body meeting was scheduled, with a petrol bottle. They said their land was occupied by neighbours and when they tried to seek help, a police complaint was lodged against them. Later, they were pacified by officials who promised to address their problem at the earliest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/brf/article33707483.ece
31 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Nation moving towards undeclared emergency’||Several journalists on Saturday gathered for a public meeting organised by the Editors Guild of India and Press Club of India to protest against sedition and other criminal charges pressed against senior journalists. The increasing instances where scribes are being charged with sedition and under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, were indicative of the fact that the country was moving towards an undeclared emergency, senior journalists said while addressing the meet. Similar intent Referring to an incident when former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi had derided journalists for putting the government’s mistakes on the front pages, senior journalist T.N. Ninan said, “While there is no censorship today, the intent is similar — to harass and intimidate the media. It is only human to make mistakes. We can and should debate the rights and wrongs of our reportage. But is any of this sedition?” “There is a larger purpose at work. That is why this must be fought by raising our collective voice,” said Mr. Ninan. Journalist Rajdeep Sardesai said, “Today’s journalists have gotten divided. On sedition, whether you are a journalist in Kashmir or in Manipur, there should be complete unanimity among journalists. The time has come for all of us to protest against the fact that sedition is unacceptable charge for journalists.” Several cases have been registered against Mr. Sardesai among other journalists, for their allegedly “misleading” social media posts on the Republic Day violence during the farmers’ protest. Senior advocate Sanjay Hedge said, “These days we do not have a government which is totally wedded to the spirit of the Constitution and law. It is very curious that all these complaints target the same set of people.” Journalist Seema Mustafa, EGI president, said that the law of sedition was being used recklessly to intimidate and harass journalists. “All those of us who have traveled and been on the field know that it is possible to make errors when you’re reporting from the field and relying on eyewitnesses. But to be faced with sedition for this? This is only being done to victimise journalists against whom cases are being filed and to terrorize the ones who are in the profession,” said Ms. Mustafa. Senior journalist Shekhar Gupta said, “A journalist can make errors and if they make amends after that it should be fine. This is a signal to the media that if you don’t fall in line now then we [government] can hit you with worse laws.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/nation-moving-towards-undeclared-emergency/article33707354.ece
31 January 2021||Bhubaneswar,||Odisha all set to begin ‘unlocking’ process||The Odisha government on Saturday allowed the reopening of Anganwadi centres from February 1 and gatherings of up to 500 people with strict adherence to safety guidelines, a notification said. The State government asked the School and Mass Education Department to take a decision on the date of reopening of schools for Classes 9 to 12. The administration also allowed the functioning of cinema halls as per the SOPs issued by the Central and State governments. Social, religious, political, sports, entertainment, academic and cultural gatherings of up to 500 people will also be allowed, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/odisha-all-set-to-begin-unlocking-process/article33707378.ece
31 January 2021||CHANDIGARH,||BJP trying to suppress farmers’ voice, says Cong.||Accusing the Bharatiya Janata Party of adopting dirty tricks to suppress the farmers’ voice and their ongoing agitation against the new farm laws, Haryana Congress president Kumari Selja said on Saturday that BJP was hell-bent on branding farmers as traitors. “What type of patriotism is BJP exhibiting? BJP should remember that the families of these farmers have sacrificed their lives for the country. These farmers have family members on the borders to protect the country. The Congress will organise a peace march in every block of Haryana from February 3 to 5 in support of the farmers,” she said at a press conference here. False cases Ms. Selja said since the day the agitation started, attempts were made by BJP to discredit the movement. “The agitating farmers are being threatened and intimidated by the police administration at the behest of BJP. False cases are being filed against the farmers,” she alleged. Congress general secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala demanded that mobile internet services be restored immediately. “Suspension of mobile internet is a conspiracy to subvert the ongoing farmers’ agitation.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/bjp-trying-to-suppress-farmers-voice-selja/article33707371.ece
31 January 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Amarinder hits out at BJP over ‘background’ remark||Terming the BJP leader Tarun Chugh’s remarks on his ‘Army background’ reprehensible, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Saturday asked, “What does the BJP or its leadership know of Army honour or the grace of the national flag in which the bodies of our Punjabi brothers come wrapped from the borders every second day?” “We, in Punjab, know the pain of seeing the bodies of our sons and brothers, wrapped in the national flag,” he said. He added that BJP has no empathy or sensitivity towards the soldiers losing their lives to protect India’s honour and integrity. “Neither Mr. Chugh nor his party could relate to the anguish of those very soldiers on seeing their farmer fathers and brothers being beaten up and tear-gassed while fighting for their rights.” “What was wrong in my statement that “maligning the farmers could cause the morale of the armed forces to go down”? How does that amount to insulting the Republic Day grace and my own Army background,” he asked, accusing Mr. Chugh of misleading the people. “What happened to the grace of the R-day when the Central government, which the BJP leads, trampled over the federal and Constitutional rights of the States to unilaterally bring in the farm Ordinances? Where is the grace in letting the poor farmers shiver out in the cold on the roads, with many of them dying out there,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/amarinder-hits-out-at-bjp-over-background-remark/article33707372.ece
31 January 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Cong. MLA disqualified after conviction in case||Congress MLA from Haryana’s Kalka constituency Pradeep Chaudhary stands disqualified from January 14, after his conviction by a Himachal Pradesh court in an assault, rioting case. Haryana Assembly Speaker Gian Chand Gupta on Saturday said a notification in this regard has been issued by the Assembly secretariat. “Consequent upon the conviction of Pradeep Chaudhary, MLA, by the court of Jitender Kumar, Judicial Magistrate Ist Class, Nalagarh, District Solan…Shri Pradeep Chaudhary, stands disqualified from the membership of Haryana Vidhan Sabha from the date of his conviction, ie January 14, 2021. And accordingly one Assembly seat has fallen vacant,” read the notification. Now, the Congress has a strength of 30 MLAs in the 90-member State Assembly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/cong-mla-disqualified-after-conviction-in-case/article33707373.ece
31 January 2021||Ghaziabad,||Laws are not set in stone: Jayant||At the farmer panchayat in Mathura on Saturday, Rashtriya Lok Dal vice president Jayant Chaudhary said laws were not set in stone and could be changed according to the wish of the people. He was speaking at the massive rally called by the Bharatiya Kisan Union in Bajna in solidarity with its leader Rakesh Tikait who is protesting against the farm laws at the Delhi-Uttar Pradesh border for more than two months. He asked the Uttar Pradesh government that if the laws were so beneficial to farmers, why was the panchayat election notification being delayed. “I challenge Yogiji to issue notification for panchayat elections,” he said. Addressing an assembly of around 20,000 farmers at the Morki Inter College grounds in Bajna, Mr. Chaudhary said raising voice against a law doesn’t make a person anti-national. “We have a right to protest against laws that are inadequate. Had that been the case, the colonial era Land Acquisition Act would not have been changed.” The Act was changed in 2013 after Mr. Chaudhary introduced a Private Member’s Bill on land acquisition in the Lok Sabha.  Battle of ideology He appealed to youngsters to participate in protests and asked the farmers to make a diary noting names of those who are not with them in their ordeal. “Such people need to be boycotted socially. We don’t have any personal issue with them. It is a battle of ideology with those who feel that today they are farmers but tomorrow they would vote as Hindus,” he asserted. “As long they won’t realise the damage that your vote could cause, they would keep deceiving people,” he added. After the emotional outburst of Mr. Tikait on Thursday, BKU is holding rallies in different parts of western Uttar Pradesh where the RLD cadre is also turning up in large numbers. On Sunday, a rally of different khaps has been called in Baraut tehsil of Baghpat where farmers were forcibly removed by the police earlier this week. On February 1, another rally has been called in Kandhla village of Shamli district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/laws-are-not-set-in-stone-jayant/article33707375.ece
31 January 2021||Ghaziabad,||Farmers open for talks, says Tikait||Responding to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s appeal that he was just a phone call away, BKU leader Rakesh Tikait said that farmers were open for talks as dialogue was the only way to resolve the crisis. “We want to bring the talks back on track and resolve the issue. We hope to have a timeline for talks in the coming days,” he said. Mr. Tikait said he believed in the Constitution and would follow the due process in the cases that have been filed against him. Mr. Tikait was named along with other farmer leaders in the FIRs filed by the Delhi Police in connection with the violent incidents that took place in the Capital on Republic Day. He appealed to the farmers of Haryana and Punjab to keep the protest alive at the Singhu and Tikri border. Mr. Tikait criticised the MHA order to suspend internet at the protest sites. BKU spokesperson Dharmendra Malik said water supply has been restored by the Ghaziabad administration, but the internet speed remained dismal through the day. Meanwhile, the flow of the farmers at the Ghazipur border refused to ebb on Saturday. Two dozen women from Shamli came to the protest site holding water in earthen pots on their head. On Thursday, after the administration cut the water supply to the protest site, Mr. Tikait had said he would drink water only from his village. Indian National Lok Dal leader Abhay Chautala, who recently resigned from the Haryana Assembly in protest against farm laws, reached Ghazipur border with a fleet of SUVs that were parked on NH-9. “Farmer doesn’t harass anybody but if somebody harasses them, they don’t spare anybody,” he said. On Friday evening, Bhim Army chief Chandrashekhar Azad reached the site and described Mr. Tikait as his elder brother. Earlier addressing the farmers, Mr. Tikait said he didn’t cry on Thursday. “Tikait didn’t cry and will not cry. It could be water of the fields,” he said metaphorically.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/farmers-open-for-talks-says-tikait/article33707377.ece
31 January 2021||Mumbai,||New farm laws will affect MSP, weaken mandi system: Pawar||Raising concerns over the three new farm laws, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar on Saturday said the legislation will adversely affect the Minimum Support Price (MSP) procurement infrastructure and weaken the mandi system by restricting the power of agriculture markets. “Reform is a continuous process and no one would argue against the reforms in the APMCs or Mandi System, a positive argument on the same does not mean that it is done to weaken or demolish the system,” Mr. Pawar said on Twitter. “During my tenure, the draft APMC Rules - 2007 were framed for the setting up of special markets thereby providing alternate platforms for farmers to market their commodities and utmost care was also taken to strengthen the existing Mandi system,” the NCP chief added in his tweet. Mr. Pawar, who served as Union Agriculture Minister from 2004-2014, said he was also concerned about the amended Essential Commodities Act. “According to the Act, the government will intervene for price control only if rates of horticultural produce are increased by 100% and that of non-perishable items increase by 50%,” he said. ‘Powers restricted’ The NCP chief said new agricultural laws restrict the powers of the mandi system — the collection of levy and fees from the private markets, dispute resolution, agri-trade licensing, and regulations of e-trading. “The MSP mechanism has to be ensured and strengthened further,” he added. Mr. Pawar posted these points on his official Twitter account, comparing the draft APMC Rules 2007 to the new farm laws. He also expressed concern over the removal of the stockpiling limit. “Stock piling limits have been removed on food grain, pulses, onion, potato, oilseeds, etc. It may lead to apprehensions that Corporates may purchase commodities at lower rates and stock pile and sell at higher prices to consumers,” he tweeted. Mr. Pawar said he virtually participated in the all-party meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi in which issues related to the proposed agenda for the Budget session, farmers’ agitation, women’s Bill and other issues were discussed. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/new-farm-laws-will-affect-msp-weaken-mandi-system-pawar/article33707552.ece
31 January 2021||Mumbai,||PMLA case: Kochhars, Dhoot told to appear in court on Feb. 12||A special PMLA court in Mumbai on Saturday issued summons to former ICICI Bank managing director Chanda Kochhar and other accused after taking cognisance of the chargesheet filed against them by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in a money laundering case and asked them to appear before it on February 12. The ED filed its first chargesheet against Ms. Kochhar, her husband Deepak Kochhar, and Videocon Group promoter Venugopal Dhoot on money laundering charges in November. Special PMLA Judge A.A. Nandgoankar took cognisance of the complaint filed by ED on Saturday and directed the accused to remain present before it on February 12. The ED had filed a money laundering case against the Kochhars, Mr. Dhoot and others for “illegal sanctioning of loans amounting to Rs. 1,875 crore to the Videocon Group of companies”. The ED had arrested Mr. Kochhar in September after it filed a criminal case of money laundering based on an FIR registered by the CBI against the Kochhars, Mr. Dhoot and others. The ED has alleged that an amount of Rs. 64 crore, out of the loan amount of Rs. 300 crore sanctioned by a committee headed by Ms. Kochhar to Videocon International Electronics Limited, was transferred to Nupower Renewables Pvt Ltd (NRPL) by Videocon Industries Limited on September 8, 2009, a day after disbursement of loan by ICICI Bank. NRPL was earlier known as Nupower Renewables Limited and is Mr. Kochhar’s company, as per the ED.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/pmla-case-kochhars-dhoot-told-to-appear-in-court-on-feb-12/article33707548.ece
31 January 2021||Mumbai,||Congress ministers in MVA meet high command||Ahead of civic polls in Maharashtra, Cabinet ministers in the Maha Vikas Aghadi government met the party’s central leadership in Delhi on Saturday. The State unit has been under fire over the lacklustre performance of its ministers and being overshadowed by their counterparts from the Nationalist Congress Party and the Shiv Sena. An office-bearer of the State Congress said, “The meeting was convened to discuss the strategy for the civic polls. The performance of departments headed by Congress ministers need to be gauged. Three leaders from the All India Congress Committee and the State in-charge attended the meeting.” A minister who attended the meeting told The Hindu that the high command has sought a report card of each minister. “We were asked about the works we initiated in our respected departments, the difficulties being faced in the coalition government, and how we are promoting the party in the State. This is important as civic polls are lined up in the State,” the minister said. Before the meeting, State party chief Balasaheb Thorat said a decision on his successor would be taken soon. He said, “The coming year being one of elections, there should be no further delay in appointing the new president. The decision will be taken by the party leadership.” A minister, on condition of anonymity, said no consensus on the issue was reached at the meeting, but the party might choose an OBC leader. “Nana Patole’s name is being discussed in the media. But in that case, he will have to vacate the Assembly Speaker’s post and we have to find a replacement,” the minister said. According to sources, Mr. Patole, who hails from Vidarbha, is facing opposition within the party. Other contenders for the post include Vijay Vadettiwar, Sunil Kedar, and Amit Deshmukh. A minister said there could be a surprise announcement in a week or two.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/congress-ministers-in-mva-meet-high-command/article33707550.ece
31 January 2021||Mumbai,||PNB scam case: retired bank official denied bail||A special court on Saturday denied bail to retired bank official Gokulnath Shetty, prime accused in the Punjab National Bank (PNB) scam case. Mr. Shetty was arrested in March 2018 for allegedly playing a key role in the Rs. 13,700 crore loan fraud while working as a deputy manager at PNB’s Brady House branch in Mumbai. Special judge for cases under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act V.C. Barde rejected the bail plea. The scam came to light when jewellery firms of prime accused Nirav Modi and Mehul Choksi approached the Brady Road branch of the PNB in January 2018, seeking Letters of Understanding (LoU) for payment to suppliers. The bank realised that LoUs were being issued to these firms fraudulently for seven years, and Mr. Shetty was allegedly instrumental in this.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/pnb-scam-case-retired-bank-official-denied-bail/article33707549.ece
31 January 2021||Mumbai,||2,630 new cases, 1,535 recoveries in Maharashtra||Maharashtra on Saturday recorded 2,630 new COVID-19 cases, taking its total case tally to 20,23,814, an official of the State Health Department said. The State also reported 42 fatalities, pushing its total death toll to 51,042. A total of 1,535 patients were discharged, raising the cumulative tally of recoveries to 19,27,335. There are currently 44,199 active cases in the State. With 62,801 new tests, the number of samples tested in the State for the virus has gone up to 1,45,59,160. The Mumbai division, which consists of Mumbai city and its satellite towns, reported 830 new cases, raising the total case tally to 6,93,515. A total of 19,556 people have died so far in the region, the official said. 429 fresh cases in Mumbai Mumbai city reported 429 fresh cases during the day, which pushed its overall case tally to 3,08,492, while its total death toll rose to 11,345, with seven more fatalities. The number of cases in the Pune division stood at 5,00,452 and the death toll at 11,598, the official said. Nashik division’s cumulative case tally stood at 2,76,000 and death toll at 5,110. Kolhapur division has reported 1,17,867 cases and 4,012 deaths till now, while Aurangabad division’s case tally stood at 74,995 and death toll at 1,999. Latur division has reported 82,382 cases until now and 2,470 fatalities. Akola division has reported 71,395 cases, while 1,577 people have succumbed to the virus so far. Nagpur division has reported 2,07,058 infections and 4,636 fatalities so far, the official said. A total of 1,91,975 people are under home quarantine while 2,324 are in institutional quarantine facilities, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/2630-new-cases-1535-recoveries-in-maharashtra/article33707553.ece
31 January 2021||new delhi,||Growing confidence, awareness drive boost vaccination||Less than two weeks into the COVID-19 vaccine drive, Delhi has managed to achieve 90% of its daily inoculation target and has also increased the number of vaccination sites and the daily target. On January 16, Prime Minister Narendra Modi launched the vaccination drive across the country. Only 45.5% of the expected number of healthcare workers in Delhi turned up to take the vaccine. On January 25, the city achieved 91.5% of its daily target — the highest till now. The spike in the number of people getting the jab is being attributed to increased confidence regarding the vaccine among healthcare workers, and changes to guidelines that make the process more flexible. Awareness sessions and many senior doctors coming forward to take the vaccine have also made a difference, said heads of hospitals. “On the first day, the number of healthcare workers who came to get vaccinated was in the 20s. More workers are willing to get the vaccine now. For every vaccine, the story is the same. People want to wait and see if there are any side effects and then the numbers pick up,” Medical Director of Lady Hardinge Medical College, N.N. Mathur told The Hindu . Dr. Mathur said the Centre has also released posters with quotes of senior doctors, who have taken the vaccine, to instill confidence in healthcare workers. Sharing the experience “We have also asked people, who have taken the vaccine, to share their experience in our WhatsApp groups... they are doing it. We hope that more people will come forward to take the jab,” he added. Dr. Mathur said he had taken the vaccine on the first day and motivated around 4,000 healthcare workers at the hospital.   Spokesperson of Delhi government-run Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital (RGSSH) Chhavi Gupta said they have conducted awareness sessions for their health workers. “Their questions and doubts were addressed in these sessions. Also, many senior doctors, including me, have taken the vaccine,” she added.   Apart from these, two changes in guidelines have led to an increase in the number of recipients, said officials. Initially, each of the 81 sites here had a daily list of nearly 100 registered recipients. From January 28, the number of sites was increased to 106. This has led to the daily target being increased to 10,600 from the initial 8,100 health workers. Earlier, only those on the list were allowed vaccination on the day. But last week, the Centre allowed healthcare workers — whose names are not on the daily list — but registered in the CoWIN platform, to be vaccinated. This has led to more people getting vaccinated. On the first day, 45 people were vaccinated at RGSSH but then the numbers dropped and have now picked up again, hitting 100 on multiple days. “Workers from other private and smaller hospitals in our district, where vaccination has not begun, have been allowed to get the jab at our hospital or at GTB. This has helped increase number of people,” Dr. Gupta said. Also, centres have been allowed to do more that 100 vaccinations if possible. A 27-year-old nursing orderly at RGSSH, Mithlesh Kumar, said he had volunteered to take the vaccine on the first day.  “I wanted to be safe from the virus. But others were waiting for more people to take the vaccine so that they know it’s safe. In our hospital, some had a fever after taking the vaccine, but there were no major issues. Now, the fear in most people is gone and they are ready to take the vaccine,” he said. A member of the AIIMS nurses’ union said there is still reluctance in some. “Many did not want to take the risk after a security guard was hospitalised after taking the vaccine. The director of the hospital has taken the vaccine, but other senior doctors should also take the it to instill confidence,” the member said. Covaxin is used at eight of the 106 vaccination sites in the city, including AIIMS. The beneficiary has to sign a consent form to take Covaxin, which is not needed for Covishield. “The consent form states that the vaccine is in the trial phase and workers know that. But there is no coercion from the authorities, and it is happening as it should be done — voluntarily. It will take more time to instill confidence and many are saying that they may not take the vaccine as the cases are very low now,” the member added. Vaccine days Vaccination happens four days a week — Monday, Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday. In the next phase, the front-line workers, including police and teachers, will be inoculated. About 2.4 lakh healthcare workers, whose names have been registered with the government, are being vaccinated in the first phase.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/growing-confidence-awareness-drive-boost-vaccination/article33707370.ece
31 January 2021||New Delhi,||Highest number of healthcare workers vaccinated in one day||A total of 8,774 healthcare workers were vaccinated in the city on Saturday, which is the highest single-day count till now, said Delhi government spokesperson. Also, there were 10 Adverse Events Following Immunisation (AEFI). The number of people vaccinated on Saturday was 82.7% of the daily target of 10,600. This is less than 80.8% on Wednesday and 91.5% on Monday. The number of vaccination sites was increased to 106 on Thursday from 81. Each site has a target of 100 healthcare workers each; total target also increased to 10,600 from 8,100. The government plans to increase the number of vaccination sites to 1,000 in a phased manner. Of the 10 AEFI, seven were from using Covishield and three from Covaxin. The city is currently inoculating about 2.4 lakh healthcare workers whose names have been registered with the government and it is voluntary. On the other hand, Delhi witnessed 183 new COVID-19 cases in 24 hours, taking the total number of cases to 6,34,956, said the Delhi government on Saturday. Also, eight more deaths have been reported, taking the total number of deaths to 10,849. A total of 68,967 tests were done in the past 24 hours. Of the total cases, 6,22,671 people have recovered and there are 1,436 active cases. The positivity rate of COVID-19 cases was 0.27% on Saturday and the overall positivity till now was 5.94%, as per the bulletin. Out of the total 8,621 beds available for COVID-19 treatment in the city, 91.9% beds were vacant. There were only 543 people under home isolation and 693 in hospitals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/highest-number-of-healthcare-workers-vaccinated-in-one-day/article33707362.ece
31 January 2021||New Delhi,||Singh moves SC for quashing FIRs against him in U.P.||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader and Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Singh has moved the Supreme Court, seeking quashing of multiple FIRs lodged against him in various districts of Uttar Pradesh after his press conference in August last year, saying they have been “maliciously instituted to unleash political vendetta”. In a separate petition, Mr. Singh has also challenged the Allahabad High Court order of January 21 by which it had refused to quash the FIR lodged in Lucknow after the August 12, 2020, press conference. Mr. Singh said he had conducted a press conference at Lucknow on August 12 last year wherein he had alleged that the State government was favouring one particular caste over the others. “In the said press conference, the petitioner had merely raised certain social issues, namely neglect and apathy of the government towards a certain class of society,” he said in his writ petition filed through advocate Sumeer Sodhi. Both the petitions will be taken up for hearing by a bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan on February 2. Senior advocate Vivek Tankha is likely to appear for Singh in the matter. Mr. Singh said after the press meet, multiple FIRs were registered against him at the instance of the BJP's members in various police stations in different districts of U.P.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/singh-moves-sc-for-quashing-firs-against-him-in-up/article33707366.ece
31 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||NGT pulls up DJB over pollution in the Yamuna||The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has pulled up the Delhi Jal Board (DJB) over pollution in the Yamuna while stating that the water quality has deteriorated as pollutants were still being discharged into drains. A Bench headed by NGT chief, Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel, directed the Delhi Chief Secretary to coordinate with Chief Secretaries of Haryana and Uttar Pradesh and monitor the progress of cleaning the river by evolving effective administrative mechanisms. The green panel also observed that the Yamuna Monitoring Committee (YMC) had noted several gaps in generation and treatment of sewage. ‘Bridge gaps’ “Such gaps need to be bridged in U.P. and Haryana also. Necessary devices for sewage and effluent treatment have still not been installed to the required extent. In spite of availability of huge funds, the DJB is not working in a professional manner, as observed by the YMC,” the Tribunal also said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/ngt-pulls-up-djb-over-pollution-in-the-yamuna/article33707364.ece
31 January 2021||New Delhi,||AAP attacks BJP over landfills causing ‘Rs. 450-crore damage’ to environment||The Aam Aadmi Party on Saturday attacked the BJP over the landfills in the city. Citing an IIT report, AAP said the landfills in the city are causing a loss of Rs. 450 crore to the environment. The party also said they have completed 2,500 mohalla sabhas across the city to expose BJP’s alleged corruption in the municipal corporations. “A report made by the National Environment Tribunal, Central Pollution Board and IIT-Delhi have conducted a collective scientific analysis. In the report, they have found out that these three garbage mountains have cost a loss of Rs. 450 crores to the environment of Delhi. If you study the report in detail, they have said that the garbage mountains have ruined the underground water reserve up to 10-15 kms around those mountains,” said AAP leader Durgesh Pathak at a press meet. He claimed that in the last 15 years, the biggest achievement of the BJP-ruled civic bodies has been building three garbage mountains in Bhalswa, Okhla and Ghazipur. “You will find around 90 lakh metric tonnes of garbage, if you visit the Bhalswa landfill. There are 50 lakh metric tonnes of garbage in Okhla landfill, and 140 lakh metric tonnes garbage in Ghazipur landfill. The way BJP is cleaning these landfills, it will take 200 years for them to complete the task,” Mr. Pathak said. About the mohalla sabhas, the AAP leader said, “We had launched a campaign across Delhi 15 days back, under which our aim was to organise 2,500 mohalla sabhas across Delhi. Yesterday we completed 2,500 mohalla sabhas under our campaign. We noticed a great enthusiasm among the people for AAP.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/aap-attacks-bjp-over-landfills-causing-rs-450-crore-damage-to-environment/article33707367.ece
31 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||DU to reopen from Feb. 1 for final-year students||Delhi University has announced that colleges will function with 100% staff strength from February 1. “All colleges, centres and departments shall be functional and, therefore, all teaching staff must attend to their workplace with effect from February 1,” read a notification dated January 29. “Only final-year students, in small batches, are allowed to visit their respective colleges, centres and departments for their laboratory, practicals, skill, library and related activities, as per the discretion of the respective principal, director or head in line with the UGC guidelines and SOPs,” it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/du-to-reopen-from-feb-1-for-final-year-students/article33707360.ece
31 January 2021||New Delhi,||Court abates criminal proceedings against Vora||A Delhi court has abated criminal proceedings against Congress leader Motilal Vora in the National Herald case in view of his demise in December last. The court was hearing a private criminal complaint filed by BJP MP Subramanian Swamy against Mr. Vora, Congress leaders Sonia and Rahul Gandhi and others. The court passed the order after advocate Tarannum Cheema, appearing for the accused, filed the original hard copy of the application for placing on record the death certificate of Vora, and as a consequence prayed for abatement of proceedings qua him. The court issued notice to the SHO concerned to file death verification report of Mr. Vora, who submitted that the veteran Congress leader died on December 21, 2020. “In view of the aforesaid and report filed, proceedings in the present case qua the accused Motil Lal Vora stands abated,” Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Sachin Gupta said in an order passed on January 28. The case will continue against other accused people. The court will further hear the matter on February 11. The case is scheduled for the cross-examination of the complainant, Swamy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/court-abates-criminal-proceedings-against-vora/article33707363.ece
31 January 2021||New Delhi,||BJP to create human chain at CP today||BJP members will create a human chain at the inner circle of Connaught Place on Sunday to demand Rs. 26,000 crore related to an alleged scam in the Delhi Jal Board (DJB). Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta said the party would demand an accounting of the funds through the programme. State Vice-President Sunil Yadav said the BJP’s MPs, MLAs and the LoP will demand the amount from the Delhi government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/bjp-to-create-human-chain-at-cp-today/article33707368.ece
31 January 2021||January 31 2021 00:00 IST,||Biden govt. will build on the Quad: NSA||The new U.S. National Security Adviser (NSA), Jake Sullivan, has said the Biden administration would like to carry forward the work of the Donald Trump administration in strengthening the Quad grouping — India, the U.S., Japan and Australia. His comments will bring some measure of clarity to discussions on the level of priority the new administration will assign the Indo-Pacific, which had been elevated by the Trump administration as a foreign policy priority, mostly as a reaction to China’s growing assertiveness. “I think we really want to carry forward and build on that format, that mechanism which we see as fundamental a foundation upon which to build substantial American policy in the Indo-Pacific region,” Mr. Sullivan said at a webcast discussion, ‘Passing the Baton’, organised by the U.S. Institute for Peace. The discussion between Mr. Sullivan and his predecessor Robert O’Brien was moderated by Condoleezza Rice, Secretary of State from the George W. Bush administration. Mr. Sullivan described the Quad and the Abraham Accords — deals signed in 2020 to normalise relations between Israel and certain West Asian and North African countries — as examples of Trump administration’s actions that were positive and ones the Biden administration would build on. Iran nuclear deal Earlier in the discussion, Mr. O’Brien had said the Quad “may be the most important relationship” the U.S. has established since NATO and an example of working with allies to confront China. Mr. Sullivan, however, said Mr. Trump and Mr. Biden had some “real differences” in their approach to the relationship with Iran. “It starts from a sober analysis of the state of affairs, which is that Iran’s nuclear programme has advanced dramatically over the course of the past couple of years, they are significantly closer to a nuclear weapon than they were when the previous administration withdrew from the JCPOA [Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action or the ‘Iran deal’],” he said. On Afghanistan, Mr Sullivan said that the Biden administration would take decisions on the withdrawal of the remaining 2,500 American troops by May 1 from the country, based on whether the Taliban were fulfilling their end of a U.S.-Taliban agreement from February last year. “So, what we’re doing right now is taking a hard look at the extent to which the Taliban are, in fact, complying with those three conditions and in that context, we will make decisions about our force posture and our diplomatic strategy going forward,” he said. Mr. Sullivan said three conditions in the agreement were of particular importance: the Taliban cutting ties with terror groups including al-Qaeda, reduction in violence, and third, the Taliban participating “in a real way, not a fake way, in negotiations with the Afghan government.” ‘China challenge’ The former and current NSAs also differed in their characterisation of the top challenges facing the U.S. “A very assertive, rising China” was the biggest challenge to the U.S., according to Mr. O’Brien. Iran, Russia and less high-profile challenges like cartels and transnational crime were some of the others. For Mr Sullivan, the most pressing challenge was the turmoil within the U.S. itself. “It occurs to me something that Joe Biden has really reinforced for us, which is that foreign policy is domestic policy and domestic policy is foreign policy. And at the end of the day, right now, the most profound national security challenge facing the United States is getting our own house in order, is domestic renewal,” Mr. Sullivan said. He described COVID-19, the economic crisis and “acute threats to our basic constitutional republic and “deep divisions” as domestic challenges facing the country. Investing in allies and re-establishing America’s place in multilateral forums like the World Health Organization and Paris Climate Accord were the next priority. Then the U.S. would be in a position to effectively deal with “the China challenge” , the climate crisis , the current and future pandemics and so forth, Mr. Sullivan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/biden-govt-will-build-on-the-quad-nsa/article33707091.ece
31 January 2021||Yangon,||After uproar, Myanmar Army plays down coup rhetoric||Myanmar’s military on Saturday vowed to abide by the country’s Constitution, in an apparent backtracking after its commander-in-chief spurred fears of a coup when he suggested the junta-scripted charter could be repealed. The powerful Army has for weeks alleged widespread irregularities in November’s election, won in a landslide by Aung San Suu Kyi’s ruling National League for Democracy (NLD). Tensions ramped up on Tuesday when a military spokesman refused to rule out the possibility of a coup. A day later, Army chief General Min Aung Hlaing — arguably the most powerful person in Myanmar — said revoking the 2008 Constitution could be “necessary” under certain circumstances. His comments — translated into English and published in Army-run Myawady newspaper — sent shockwaves through the nascent democracy, only a decade out of the grips of a 49-year military junta. On Saturday, the Army released a statement claiming its commander-in-chief had been misunderstood, though the statement did not directly address fears of an imminent coup. “Other organisations and media misinterpreted the commander-in-chief’s speech and framed it from their point of view,” said the statement. “Tatmadaw is abiding by the current Constitution... and will perform within the law by defending it,” it added, referring to the Army by its official Burmese name. The last time the country saw its Constitution revoked was in 1988, when the military reinstated a junta after a popular uprising. The General’s comments on the Constitution drew alarm from more than a dozen foreign missions and the UN, while smaller political parties called for a resolution between Ms. Suu Kyi and the military. Voter fraud charges The country’s highest Buddhist authority even stepped in, with the senior monks of the State Sangha Maha Nayaka issuing a statement late on Friday calling for negotiations to prevail “instead of heated arguments”. The military is alleging 10 million cases of voter fraud in November’s polls, and is demanding the Election Commission release the electoral roll for cross-checking. The Election Commission has denied fraud, though it has conceded that there were “flaws” in the lists of voters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/after-uproar-myanmar-army-plays-down-coup-rhetoric/article33707089.ece
31 January 2021||Washington/Islamabad,||Fix accountability in Daniel Pearl murder case: U.S.||U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken has spoken over phone with Pakistan’s Foreign Minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi and discussed the accountability of convicted terrorists responsible for the brutal murder of American journalist Daniel Pearl, according to the State Department. Pearl, the 38-year-old South Asia bureau chief for The Wall Street Journal , was abducted and beheaded while he was in Pakistan investigating a story in 2002 on the links between the country’s powerful spy agency ISI and al-Qaeda. State Department Spokesperson Ned Price said on Friday that Mr. Blinken reinforced America’s concern over Pakistan Supreme Court’s ruling acquitting Pearl’s killers. “Blinken and Qureshi discussed how to ensure accountability for convicted terrorist Ahmed Omar Saeed Sheikh and others responsible for the kidnapping and murder of American journalist Daniel Pearl,” Mr. Price said in a readout of the call. In addition, Mr. Blinken and Qureshi discussed the importance of continued U.S.-Pakistan cooperation on the Afghan peace process, support for regional stability, and the potential to expand our trade and commercial ties, Mr. Price said. The Pakistan Foreign Office said in a statement that the two leaders discussed “recent developments in the Daniel Pearl case” and Mr. Qureshi “underscored that it was important and in the mutual interest that justice is served through legal means.” Mr. Qureshi congratulated Secretary Blinken on assuming his office, underscoring Pakistan’s commitment to forging a comprehensive partnership with the U.S. based on the convergence of interests on a whole range of issues, it said. Mr. Qureshi told Mr. Blinken that peace in Afghanistan through a negotiated political settlement was one of the fundamental convergences between the two countries. He said it was essential to have a reduction in violence leading to the ceasefire.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/fix-accountability-in-daniel-pearl-murder-case-us/article33707098.ece
31 January 2021||BEIJING,||China’s Hualong One nuclear reactor gets going||China National Nuclear Corporation said its first nuclear power unit that uses Hualong One, a third-generation reactor, started commercial operations on Saturday. The reactor, located in Fuqing city in China’s southeastern Fujian province, was designed to have a 60-year lifespan, with its core equipment domestically produced. Each unit of the Hualong No. 1 has a capacity of 1.161 million kilowatts and can meet the annual domestic electricity demand of 1 million people in moderately developed countries, according to CNNC. “With Hualong One online, China is now at the forefront of third-generation nuclear technology in the world, alongside countries like the U.S., France and Russia,” said CNNC President Yu Jianfeng.  A second Hualong One unit is due to be completed later this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/chinas-hualong-one-nuclear-reactor-gets-going/article33707083.ece
31 January 2021||Brussels,||No curbs on vaccine supply to N. Ireland: EU||The European Union on Friday backtracked on a threat to restrict exports of coronavirus shots to Northern Ireland in its growing row with Britain. British-Swedish firm AstraZeneca has said it can only deliver a fraction of its vaccine doses promised to the EU and Britain because of production problems, but both sides are demanding their pledges are met. The EU threatened to restrict vaccine exports to Northern Ireland by overriding part of the Brexit deal with Britain that allowed the free flow of goods over the Irish border, but backed down after British Prime Minister Boris Johnson voiced “grave concerns”. The European Commission will “ensure that the Ireland/Northern Ireland Protocol is unaffected”, the EU commissioner said. That came after the EU released a redacted version of its contract with AstraZeneca, while announcing a mechanism that could allow it to deny the export of vaccines made on European soil.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/eu-backtracks-on-restricting-vaccines-to-northern-ireland/article33707084.ece
31 January 2021||Washington,||U.S. issues new mandate on wearing mask||Travellers on aeroplanes and public transportation, like buses and subways, will be required to wear face masks starting next week to curb the spread of COVID-19. The U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention issued a mask-wearing rule late on Friday that builds on an order announced January 21 by President Joe Biden.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-issues-new-mandate-on-wearing-mask/article33707163.ece
31 January 2021||Jalalabad,||Eight Afghan security personnel killed in Taliban attack||A suicide bomber drove a vehicle loaded with explosives into a base for Afghan defence forces in the country’s east on Saturday, killing at least eight security personnel in an attack claimed by the Taliban. The pre-dawn assault took place in the restive province of Nangarhar. It came two days after the Pentagon said the Taliban were not living up to promises made in a deal signed with Washington last year.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/eight-afghan-security-personnel-killed-in-taliban-attack/article33707086.ece
31 January 2021||Tehran,||Iran hangs ethnic Baluch for ‘terror’, despite UN appeal||Iran hanged a man for murder, abduction and “terrorist” links on Saturday, the judiciary’s website said, despite international calls for the execution of the ethnic Baloch to be halted. The UN had on Friday urged Iran to halt the execution of Javid Dehghan Khalad as it rebuked the country for a spate of recent hangings, including of members of minority groups. He was arrested in 2015 and convicted of being “one of the leaders” of a “terrorist” group.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/iran-hangs-ethnic-baluch-for-terror-despite-un-appeal/article33707087.ece
31 January 2021||MUMBAI,||ICICI Bank Q3 net rises 19% despite higher provisions||ICICI Bank reported a 19% rise in net profit to Rs. 4,940 crore in the third quarter ended December 31, from a year earlier, despite higher provisioning for bad loans. Core operating profit grew 15% to Rs. 8,054 crore, while net interest income increased 16% to Rs. 9,912 crore. “We see optimism in the economy,” Sandeep Batra, executive director, ICICI Bank, said in a conference call. “We are in a good position to capitalise. We are now more confident.” He said the continued pickup in economic activity and tailwinds from the festive season reflected in an increase in disbursements across retail products. Mortgage disbursements reached an all-time monthly high in December. Total deposits climbed 22% to Rs. 874,348 crore, domestic loans grew 13% and retail loans rose 15% year-on-year.  Disbursements of auto loans crossed pre-Covid levels in December and credit card spending also reached pre-pandemic levels in the same month, led by increased spending in categories such as health & wellness, electronics and e-commerce, he said. The bank made provisions (excluding provision for tax) of Rs. 2,742 crore compared with Rs. 2,083 crore a year earlier. ‘More conservative’ It also made contingency provisions amounting to Rs. 3,012 crore for borrower accounts not classified as non-performing pursuant to the interim order of the Supreme Court. During the quarter, the bank changed its provisioning policy on non-performing assets to make it more ‘conservative’. The contingency provision made on a prudent basis for loans overdue for more than 90 days at December 31, but not classified as non-performing pursuant to the Supreme Court’s interim order, also reflected the revised policy, it said in a regulatory filing. “The change in policy resulted in higher provision on advances amounting to Rs. 2,096 crore during the quarter for aligning provisions on the outstanding loans to the revised policy,” the lender said. Gross additions to NPAs were Rs. 471 crore. Recoveries and upgrades, excluding write-offs from non-performing loans were Rs. 1,776 crore. The net NPA ratio was 0.63% as on December 31. Loans amounting to Rs. 8,280 crore — compared with Rs. 1,410 crore on September 30 — were not classified as non-performing following the interim order of the apex court. On a proforma basis, the net NPA ratio was 1.26% compared with 1.12% on September 30. The provision coverage ratio stood at 77.6%, the bank said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/icici-bank-q3-net-rises-19-despite-higher-provisions/article33707066.ece
31 January 2021||January 31 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Electricity will be the backbone of our entire energy system’||ABB Power Products and Systems India Ltd., an arm of Zurich headquartered Hitachi ABB Power Grids, operates in more than 16 manufacturing locations in the country. N. Venu , MD (India) and head of region, South Asia, talks about the relevance of a smart grid and digitisation. Edited excerpts from an interview:  What is the grid of the future? The grid of the future is all about renewable penetration and increased electricity consumption. The Railways has an ambition to electrify their entire network; besides, electric vehicles (EVs) will be one of the biggest growth drivers spurring electrification in the country. There will be growing electrification of utilities, industry and buildings. In addition, we will see a rise in sustainable energy carriers such as green hydrogen which will transform our energy systems. This is what the future of the grid, the future of power systems looks like. It means that electricity will soon be the backbone of our entire energy system. How will it be different from what it is today? The grid has been there, and it has been there since electricity was invented 200 years back. We now see smart grids transforming ways utilities communicate with their customers. Supported by digital technologies, power grids can quickly respond to demand/supply changes and enable electricity producers to enhance power reliability, availability and efficiency. They can also bring cost savings, not only for utilities but also for customers. Besides, an efficient grid will allow faster restoration of power outages and support better integration of large-scale renewable energy sources, bringing environmental benefits. What is the way ahead? Every penny that goes into the system now needs to be future ready. That means, if you invest one dollar in an asset today, you must think about how this asset will serve you in the long term. That means taking care of your grid’s future aspects such as digitalisation, optimisation at the time of buying itself. What are the challenges? Regulation is one challenge for digitalisation. The second challenge is availability of technology and the right skill sets. We must also consider the environmental costs as we strive to achieve carbon neutrality. We need to have very clear, holistic ways of investment as well. What are the benefits of an efficient grid? The main benefits are reliability and flexibility. Today, so much renewable energy is getting added that there has to be predictability in generation and supply. Say, the government is now planning to put 7.5 GW of solar capacity in Leh, Kargil. What would happen when suddenly there is a cloud for a few minutes? The 7.5 GW capacity would go out of your energy system. How do you manage the flexibility? These are the challenges. Besides, in India, we are at a nascent stage of e-mobility. Once it catches on, just imagine the number of cars that will need to be powered and the strain they will put on the grid. A smart grid can better handle this. How has COVID-19 enabled faster transformation in the sector? COVID-19 has directed everyone to look at sustainability, the way society is working, from a carbon-neutral lens. The whole power ecosystem is adapting. We are now talking about 3 Ds: decentralisation, de-carbonisation, digitalisation on the whole. COVID-19 brought about an increased utilisation of digital technologies, remote technologies in particular. Take us for example, we went for remote commissioning of projects which was unheard of previously. We commissioned a large substation without any of our people going to the site; even the client was not present physically.  EVs will be one of the biggest growth drivers spurring electrification in the country||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/electricity-will-be-the-backbone-of-our-entire-energy-system/article33707068.ece
31 January 2021||N. Anand,||Rural uptick prompts Chola to focus on tractor finance||Cholamandalam Investment and Finance Co. Ltd. (CIFCL), the Murugappa Group’s financial services arm, plans to maintain a strong focus on the rural economy by stepping up financing for tractors. The NBFC’s move follows faster recovery of the rural sector and a good Rabi harvest. CIFCL is banking on the good monsoon, higher cropping and government support to impart a positive growth trajectory to the tractor industry, which it expects will post 10% to 15% growth in the current fiscal, it said in an investor presentation. With more than 80% of its branches located in rural and semi-urban areas and towns, the company can capitalise on the uptick in rural demand, it added. Vehicle financing As 73% of its business portfolio comprises vehicle financing, CIFCL would continue to focus on financing light commercial vehicles (LCVs), passenger vehicles and two-wheelers. Tractor financing represents 10% of the total portfolio, vehicles 27%, LCVs 35%, cars 10% and two and three-wheelers 5% among others, the company said in its presentation. On LCV financing, it said the uptick in demand would help CIFCL garner increased market share owing to its presence in rural areas. Stating that disbursements were expected to pick up in the fourth quarter with revival of MSME business activities across India, the company said the primary focus would be on tier 2, 3 and 4 cities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/rural-uptick-prompts-chola-to-focus-on-tractor-finance/article33707070.ece
31 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||SAIL net surges fourfold on higher income||State-owned steel maker SAIL has reported a consolidated net profit of Rs. 1,468 crore in the quarter to December, mainly on account of higher income. The company had a net loss of Rs. 343.6 crore during the same quarter a year ago, the Steel Authority of India Ltd (SAIL) said in a filing. During October-December, the total income jumped to Rs. 19,997.3 crore from Rs. 16,714.9 crore in the year-earlier period. Its total expenses stood at Rs. 16,406.8 crore compared to Rs. 17,312.6 crore a year ago.  SAIL Chairman Soma Mondal said, “SAIL has shown overall improvement during the current financial year despite all the challenges. The company has geared up to service the rising steel demand in the market as soon as the gradual opening of lockdown started.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/sail-net-surges-fourfold-on-higher-income/article33707073.ece
31 January 2021||MUMBAI,||L&T Finance rights issue to open on Feb. 1||L&T Finance Holdings Ltd. said its Rs. 2,998.61-crore rights issue will open on February 1.  The company will issue up to 46,13,25,021 equity shares for cash at a price of Rs. 65 each (including premium of Rs. 55) to equity shareholders in the ratio of 17 shares for every 74 shares held on the record date of January 22. “The funds raised will be used to repay certain commercial papers issued by the company, infusion of funds in the subsidiary, for repayment of certain commercial papers issued by such subsidiary, redemption of preference shares issued by the company and for general corporate purposes,” the company said. The issue will close on February 15.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/lt-finance-rights-issue-to-open-on-feb-1/article33707069.ece
31 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Happiest Minds buys U.S.’s Pimcore||Happiest Minds Technologies Ltd. will acquire U.S.- based Pimcore Global Services for $8.25 million (about Rs. 60 crore). Houston-based Pimcore Global Services is a digital e-commerce and data management solutions company. “Happiest Minds Technologies Ltd. has concluded and signed definitive agreements to acquire 100% ownership interest of PGS Inc. (doing business as Pimcore Global Services) for a consideration of $8.25 million,” Happiest Minds said in a regulatory filing late Friday night. Revenues of PGS for the fiscal ending December 31 were at $10.6 million and Happiest Minds counts PGS amongst its list of $2 million-plus customers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/happiest-minds-buys-uss-pimcore/article33707071.ece
31 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Shree Cements profit doubles to Rs. 632 crore||Shree Cements on Saturday posted a more than twofold jump in consolidated net profit to Rs. 631.6 crore for the third quarter ended December 31. It had reported a net profit of Rs. 311.8 crore in the October-December period a year earlier, Shree Cements said in a filing. Revenue from operations rose 12.6% to Rs. 3,541.4 crore during the quarter under review as against Rs. 3,146 crore in the year-earlier period. Total expenses were Rs. 2,797.2 crore compared with Rs. 2,801.9 crore. Shree Cements also said its board had reappointed Hari Mohan Bangur as MD for a further period of five years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/shree-cements-profit-doubles-to-rs-632-crore/article33707074.ece
31 January 2021||Chennai,||A game-changer with a need for speed||If Jos Buttler had not become a cricketer, he would have been a motor racing great — high on octane, sharp on the bends and fast on the straights. The man with quick hands and reflexes loves speed; with the bat it means scoring quickly, altering opposition plans and scattering the field. No hanging around Just the other day, at Galle, the 30-year-old wicketkeeper-batsman walked in with England on a shaky 89 for four chasing 164 on a surface offering considerable turn. And soon, Buttler was doing what he knew best, stepping on the accelerator as England zoomed past the finish line. He was light on his feet, swept and reverse-swept with the instincts of an adventurer to settle the issue with a 48-ball unbeaten 46. It’s a pity that, with the situation arising out of player quarantine and bio-bubbles and the strain it can put on cricketers, this game-changer will be seen only in the first Test against India. He will subsequently travel back home and return for the white-ball series. The bubble factor In a virtual media interaction on Saturday, Buttler said, “Rotating players in and out of the series, at times there is frustration because you want to see the best players on show at all times. But it is just not possible looking at the time spent in the bubble.” Buttler was aware beating India in India was a “huge challenge” and added, “Spending time in India helps you understand the magnitude of the game here.” The Englishman felt India defeating Australia Down Under in a Test series, without several of its best players, showed its “strength and depth.” Batting big in the first innings was a key aspect of winning in India, he said. “When the ball swings in England, a first innings total of 300 could be enough. But on a fantastic wicket in India, you may need to make 600 in the first innings.” Brilliant skipper Buttler hailed skipper Joe Root’s efforts of 228 and 186 in Sri Lanka and said, “He was a fantastic example for us. He has always had a brilliant game against spin.” Buttler named fast-bowler Jofra Archer as the X-factor in the series. Buttler, too, would be an X factor, if only for one Test. He turns on the ignition and the engine roars to life.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/a-game-changer-with-a-need-for-speed/article33707196.ece
31 January 2021||GURUGRAM,||Chirag and Shruti win again||Shruti Ahlawat cruised to a 6-0, 6-4 victory over wild card Anjali Rathi in the girls final of the ITF grade-4 junior tennis tournament at the Tennis Project, Baliawas, on Saturday. It was the second successive title for the 14-year-old Shruti, coached by Pundreek Chaturvedi, in her first two tournaments of the international under-18 circuit. Chirag Duhan also won the boys title, the way he had done last week, even though he got a better fight from top seed Nishant Dabas this time around. The fifth-seeded Chirag prevailed 7-6(3), 6-2. The 17-year-old, trained by coach Gaurav Sharma, had dropped only one set in the tournament on way to his second successive title.  The results (finals):   Boys: Chirag Duhan bt Nishant Dabas 7-6(3), 6-2; Girls: Shruti Ahlawat bt Anjali Rathi 6-0, 6-4 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/chirag-and-shruti-win-again/article33707339.ece
31 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Panwar and Chaudhary shine||Divyansh Singh Panwar and Saurabh Chaudhary demonstrated the Indian firepower in the 10-metre events, but the rest of the Indian shooters got a taste of international competition in the two-day Asian online shooting championship organised by the Kuwait Shooting Federation. Panwar led the Indian sweep of the men’s air rifle with an impressive score of 632.4. Arjun Babuta and Deepak Kumar followed him in a strong field of 40 shooters. Chaudhary shot 588 to pip Foroughi Javad of Iran by one point for the gold medal in men’s air pistol. In shotgun competition, Olympian Kynan Chenai was consistently top class as he shot 145 out of 150 in six rounds of trap. He beat Naser Meqlad of Kuwait by one point. Prithviraj Tondaiman shot 143 but missed a medal. Rajeshwari Kumari, Shreyasi Singh and Manisha Keer swept the medals in women’s trap.  The results: Men: 10m air rifle: 1. Divyansh Singh Panwar 632.4; 2. Arjun Babuta 630.1; 3. Deepak Kumar 628.8.   10m air pistol: 1. Saurabh Chaudahry 588; 2. Foroughi Javad (Iri) 587; 3. Sarabjot Singh 582; 4. Abhishek Verma 581.   Skeet: 1. Meng-Yuan Li (Tpe) 147; 2. Saud Habib (Kuw) 146; 3. Tammar Alwatt (Brn) 145; 10. Angad Vir Singh Bajwa 142; 11. Gurjoat Khangura 142; 12. Mairaj Ahmad Khan 142.   Trap: 1. Kynan Chenai 145; 2. Naser Meqlad (Kuw) 144; 3. Abdul Rahman Alfaihan (Kuw) 143; 4. Prithviraj Tondaiman 143; 9. Lakshay Sheoran 140.   Women: 10m air rifle: 1. Enkhmaa Erdenechultuun (Mgl) 629.7; 2. Yelizaveta Bezrukova (Kaz) 629.5; 3. Shiori Hirata (Jpn) 629.0; 4. Elavenil Valarivan 629.0; 9. Apurvi Chandela 624.4; 16. Anjum Moudgil 622.5.   10m air pistol: 1. Rostamiyan Haniyeh (Iri) 580; 2. Sebghatollahi Golnoush (Iri) 579; 3. Manu Bhaker 578; 8. Yashaswini Singh Deswal 572; 21. Annu Raj Singh 560.   Skeet: 1. Assem Orynbay (Kaz) 140; 2. Eman Shamaa (Kuw) 137; 3. Maryam Alasam (Brn) 136; 4. Ganemat Sekhon 136; 7. Parinaaz Dhaliwal 133; 10. Karttiki Singh Shaktawat 130.   Trap: 1. Rajeshwari Kumari 138; 2. Shreyasi Singh 138; 3. Manisha Keer 136 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/panwar-and-chaudhary-shine/article33707336.ece
31 January 2021||January 31 2021 00:00 IST,||NEUFC does the double over Mumbai City FC||Deshorn Brown’s first-half brace powered NorthEast United FC (NEUFC) to a 2-1 win over Mumbai City (MCFC) and helped complete a double over the ISL leader in Bambolim on Saturday. Substitute Adam le Fondre struck a late goal but Mumbai needed to avoid defeat to break FC Goa’s 12-game unbeaten run but was undone by NEUFC’s blitz in the opening ten minutes. Since Khalid Jamil took over, NEUFC has now won three successive games after having gone without a win in seven to lift the side to fourth from seventh on the points table. On-loan signing Brown displayed his striker’s instinct to pounce on the early chances. In the sixth minute, right-back Nim Dorjee swung in an inviting cross to the back post, where an unmarked Brown smashed in a volley past Amrinder Singh. Three minutes later, Brown doubled the lead when he fired into the roof of the net from close range after the ball ricocheted off Luis Machado’s thighs from a corner kick. Brown had the chance to complete his hat-trick but miscued his shot after being set up by a superb cross from the left by Provat Lakra. In the second half, Le Fondre’s inspired volley from a half-chance ended his five-game goal drought and provided Mumbai a lifeline but NEUFC hung on.  The result: Mumbai City FC 1 (Adam le Fondre 85) lost to NorthEast United FC (Deshorn Brown 6, 10).   Sunday’s matches: HFC vs CFC, 5 p.m.; ATKMB vs KBFC, 7.30 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/neufc-does-the-double-over-mumbai-city-fc/article33707334.ece
31 January 2021||January 31 2021 00:00 IST,||Formidable TN vs plucky Baroda||Tamil Nadu has been the form team in white-ball cricket over the last two years under the captaincy of Dinesh Karthik. On Sunday, it will be a third straight limited-over final appearance for the side when it plays Baroda for the Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy at the Motera Stadium in Ahmedabad. Unfinished business But TN has unfinished business in recent title clashes — it lost the finals of the 50-over Vijay Hazare Trophy and T20 Mushtaq Ali Trophy last season to Karnataka. Unbeaten in this edition, much like its opponent Baroda, TN has the resources to go all the way. Openers N. Jagadeesan and C. Hari Nishanth have given the side starts, setting up wins during the league phase. Spinners R. Sai Kishore, M. Ashwin and B. Aparajith have delivered with the ball. In the knockouts, even when put under pressure, TN found players to step up and deliver. For Baroda, stand-in skipper Kedar Devdhar has led from the front, scoring more than 300 runs. He has been supported by the likes of Vishnu Solanki, who smashed 16 runs off the last three balls to beat Haryana in the quarterfinals, and Smit Patel. On the bowling front, left-arm pacer Lukman Meriwala and new-ball partner Atit Sheth have led the charge. Tamil Nadu coach D. Vasu said, “If we play to our potential like we have done, we should be in a good position. But at the same time, Baroda, without its big names, is playing well as a team and we can’t take them lightly.”  We have had players stepping up when it matters, like Mohammed who cleaned up the tail against Rajasthan in the semifinals. He silently goes about his job and delivers whenever the team needs him Vasu||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/formidable-tn-vs-plucky-baroda/article33707200.ece
31 January 2021||Hyderabad:,||Lombardy should score over her rivals in the HRC Golconda Oaks||L.V.R. Deshmukh’s Lombardy, who has won four out of her five starts including the Hyderabad 1000 Guineas, should score over her rivals in the HRC Golconda Oaks (Gr. 2), the stellar attraction of Sunday’s (Jan. 31) races. There will be no false rails.  TRADE FAIR PLATE (Div. I) (1,400m), rated up to 25 (Cat. III), 1.10 p.m.: 1. Blue Valentine (1) Trevor 60, 2. Diesis Dream (9) Md. Ismail 60, 3. Lightning Fairy (2) Mukesh Kumar 60, 4. N R I Flame (5) Akshay Kumar 60, 5. Hashtag (4) C. Umesh 59, 6. Sun Dancer (8) Suraj Narredu 59, 7. Moka (6) Kuldeep Singh 57.5, 8. Ice Berry (7) Nakhat Singh 56.5, 9. Kintsugi (10) Ajeeth Kumar 56.5 and 10. Moment Of Silence (Ex: Vijays Maestro) (3) A. A. Vikrant 53.  1. SUN DANCER,   2. BLUE VALENTINE,   3. N R I FLAME   NEXT MOVE PLATE (1,200m), (Terms) Maiden, 3-y-o only (Cat. II), 1.45: 1. First In Line (9) R. Laxmikanth 56, 2. General Atlantic (5) C. Umesh 56, 3. Gregor Clegane (11) Ashad Asbar 56, 4. My Master (2) Nakhat Singh 56, 5. Proud (3) Trevor 56, 6. Siyavash (14) Suraj Narredu 56, 7. Solar Ecipse (7) Chouhan 56, 8. Watch My Stride (1) Akshay Kumar 56, 9. Angel Wings (4) R. Manish 54.5, 10. Georgia Peach (10) Koushik 54.5, 11. Good Tidings (13) Neeraj 54.5, 12. Limoncello (12) Zervan 54.5, 13. Spectacular Cruise (6) A. A. Vikrant 54.5 and 14. Wild Card (8) Ajeeth Kumar 54.5.  1. SIYAVASH, 2. PROUD,   3. WATCH MY STRIDE   MUSICAL MORN PLATE (1,400m), (Terms) 4-y-o & upward (Cat. II), 2.20: 1. Pontius Pilate (7) Trevor 61.5, 2. The Great Gatsby (1) Kuldeep 61.5, 3. Titus (8) Deepak Singh 61.5, 4. Nayadeep (5) Akshay Kumar 59.5, 5. Yours Forever (6) Srinath 59.5, 6. Big Brave (9) Gopal Singh 57.5, 7. Champion Bull (4) P. Gaddam 57.5, 8. Galloping Gangster (10) Suraj Narredu 57.5, 9. Destined Dynamite (3) Ajeeth Kumar 54.5 and 10. N R I Super King (Ex: Super Dart) (2) Ashad Asbar 54.5.  1. PONTIUS PILATE, 2. NAYADEEP,   3. TITUS   COMMON LAND PLATE (Div. I) (1,100m), rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III), 2.55: 1. Amyra (13) Suraj Narredu 60, 2. Mehrzad (3) P. Gaddam 59, 3. Gusty Note (7) A.A. Vikrant 56.5, 4. Different (9) Akshay Kumar 55.5, 5. Waitoma (12) Neeraj 55.5, 6. California Beauty (8) Kuldeep Singh 54.5, 7. Lifetime (1) Surya Prakash 54, 8. Scramjet (4) Koushik 53.5, 9. Elegant Stroke (14) C.P. Bopanna 53, 10. Fantastic Show (2) Ajeeth Kumar 52.5, 11. Glendale (10) Afroz Khan 52.5, 12. Let It Be Me (5) G. Naresh 52.5, 13. Greek Soul (6) C. Umesh 51 and 14. Jo Malone (11) R. Manish 51.  1. DIFFERENT, 2. AMYRA, 3. LET IT BE ME   SWEET GIRL PLATE (1,200m), rated 40 to 65 (Cat. II), 3.30: 1. Shaquille (2) Deepak Singh 60, 2. Warrior Supreme (3) A.A. Vikrant 60, 3. Her Legacy (1) Suraj Narredu 58.5, 4. Marinetti (6) Zervan 57.5, 5. Rapid Fire (4) Ajeeth Kumar 57, 6. Conscious Gift (13) Kuldeep Singh 56.5, 7. Wah Ms Zara (11) Mukesh Kumar 56, 8. King Maker (10) Surya Prakash 53, 9. Days Of Reckoning (12) Neeraj 51.5, 10. Miss Marvellous (5) G. Naresh 51.5, 11. Exclusive Art (7) Ashad Asbar 51, 12. Mind Reader (8) Nakhat Singh 51 and 13. House Of Diamonds (9) Akshay Kumar 50.5.  1. HER LEGACY, 2. HOUSE OF DIAMONDS, 3. CONSCIOUS GIFT   COMMON LAND PLATE (Div. II) (1,100m), rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III), 4.05 p.m.: 1. Soul Empress (7) Ashad Asbar 60, 2. Augenstern (1) Mukesh Kumar 56, 3. Art In Motion (13) Kuldeep Singh 55.5, 4. Hurricane (6) Abhay Singh 55.5, 5. Appenzelle (5) Akshay Kumar 55, 6. Sublime (2) Gopal Singh 54.5, 7. Platinum Claasz (10) Surya Prakash 54, 8. Blink Of An Eye (14) Afroz Khan 53, 9. Star Dancer (3) Ajeeth Kumar 52.5, 10. Blue Cruise (9) R.S. Jodha 52, 11. Queen Blossom (8) Md. Ismail 52, 12. Air Salute (11) G. Naresh 51.5, 13. Destine To Be (12) P. Gaddam 51.5 and 14. Honourable Guest (4) R. Manish 51.  1. ART IN MOTION, 2. AUGENSTERN, 3. APPENZELLE  HRC GOLCONDA OAKS (Gr. 2) (2,400m), Fillies 4-y-o only, 4.40: 1. Castlerock (8) Koushik 57, 2. Fashion Universe (1) Akshay Kumar 57, 3. Fire N Ice (3) Neeraj 57, 4. Immortality (4) Chouhan 57, 5. Lake Tahoe (7) Suraj Narredu 57, 6. Lombardy (11) Trevor 57, 7. Luminous (9) Sandesh 57, 8. Moon River (2) Parmar 57, 9. Queen Daenerys (5) Mukesh Kumar 57, 10. Sweet Melody (10) Nakhat Singh 57 and 11. Violin (6) Srinath 57.  1. LOMBARDY, 2. IMMORTALITY,   3. VIOLIN   TRADE FAIR PLATE (Div. II) (1,400m), rated up to 25 (Cat. III), 5.15: 1. Classy Dame (3) Abhay Singh 60, 2. Felix Flame (7) Mukesh Kumar 60, 3. Minnelli (2) Trevor 60, 4. Silver Set (1) Surya Prakash 60, 5. Stormy (10) Akshay Kumar 60, 6. Super Act (5) A.A. Vikrant 59.5, 7. Millennia (8) Deepak Singh 59, 8. Shanu Shanu (6) C. Umesh 57.5, 9. Royal Avenger (9) G. Naresh 55.5 and 10. Hopscotch (4) Ajeeth Kumar 54.  1. MINNELLI, 2. HOPSCOTCH,   3. CLASSY DAME  Day’s Best: PONTIUS PILATE  Jackpot: 4, 5, 6, 7 & 8. Mini Jackpot: (i) 2, 3, 4 & 5. (ii) 5, 6, 7 & 8. Treble: (i) 1, 2 & 3. (ii) 3, 4 & 5. (iii) 6, 7 & 8. Tanala: All races.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/lombardy-should-score-over-her-rivals-in-the-hrc-golconda-oaks/article33707096.ece
31 January 2021||AGRA,||Sonam does the ’trick over Sakshi||Sonam Malik made it three-in-three in her face-offs with Sakshi Malik on Saturday to not only reiterate her top position in the 62kg but also move closer to the Olympic dream on day one of the 23rd Women’s Wrestling National Championships here. Representing Haryana, the 18-year old Sonam beat Sakshi, India’s maiden women’s wrestling Olympic medallist, 7-5 to retain the national title. It was her third win over the senior pro in as many meetings since last year, proving the previous ones were no fluke and signifying a passing of baton, as it were. Sonam had first caused a flutter when she beat Sakshi at the selection trials for the Rome Rankings Series and Asian Championships last year but failed to win a medal in either. She then pinned Sakshi at the selection trials for the Olympic Qualifiers in February 2020 before the latter was postponed. Always a slow starter, Sonam beat Manisha 3-2 in the quarterfinals, thrashed Bhagyashree 11-0 in the semifinals and was in her elements by the time she got on the mat for the final. While Sakshi scored early points, Sonam played the waiting game to perfection.  The results: 50kg: 1. Minakshi (Har), 2. Henny Kumari (Har), 3. Swati Shinde (Mah) and Kirti (Del); 55kg: 1. Anju (Har), 2. Bunty (Del), 3. Indu Tomar (UP) and Sushma Shokeen (Del); 57kg: 1. Anshu (Har), 2. Lalita (RSPB), 3. Raman Yadav (MP) and Mansi (Har); 62kg: 1. Sonam (Har), 2. Sakshi Malik (RSPB), 3. Pushpa (MP) and Manisha (Har); 72kg: 1. Pinki (RSPB), 2. Naina (Har), 3. Priyanka (UP) and Kavita (RSPB).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sonam-does-the-trick-over-sakshi/article33707340.ece
31 January 2021||Mumbai,||Ranji Trophy not to be held this season||For the first time since its inception in 1934-35, the Ranji Trophy — the premier First Class cricket tournament in India — is set to be suspended for a season, owing to the pandemic. The Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) has informed its affiliates that the truncated season would comprise the Vijay Hazare Trophy, senior women’s one-day tournament and the Vinoo Mankad Trophy for under-19 boys. Logistics BCCI secretary Jay Shah, in a letter to State associations late on Friday, confirmed the BCCI would conduct only these three tournaments “on account of the precautions necessary for the safe conduct of the games”. Shah said detailed itineraries for the tournaments would be announced soon. Meanwhile, the decision to skip the Ranji Trophy would be a severe jolt to a majority of senior domestic cricketers. This would mean the selectors’ options would be limited while picking the squad for the India and India-A tours of England later this year. Besides, hundreds of cricketers and match officials will take a severe financial hit due to a severely truncated domestic season. Compensation While the BCCI AGM in December last year had in principle passed a financial package to compensate the fraternity, the details are yet to be circulated. However, cricketers and State associations The Hindu reached out to preferred to look at the “silver lining”, saying “something is better than nothing”.  Only the Hazare Trophy, senior women’s one-day tournament and Vinoo Mankad Trophy for under-19 boys will be held||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ranji-trophy-not-to-be-held-this-season/article33707191.ece
31 January 2021||KOZHIKODE,||KCA to go ahead with T20 league||The Kerala Cricket Association (KCA) is going ahead with its plan to start its inaugural T20 league on February 15 at Alappuzha, despite the possibility of the event clashing with the Vijay Hazare Trophy one-day tournament. That means the league will have to be staged without the presence of leading stars who would be picked for the Kerala team for the Vijaya Hazare tourney, which is also expected to begin in the third week of February. “But we have the bench strength to overcome that problem,” S. Ramesh, who heads the KCA’s game development and operations, told The Hindu on Saturday. Sponsors informed “We have already intimated the sponsors Twenty First Century Media and Dream11 about the absence of big players and they are okay with it.” Ramesh believes it could even be a blessing in disguise. “Now we could find out how good our junior players are,” he said. “The tournament will be an excellent platform for the new players to showcase their talent.” He said the fixtures would be announced soon, though the KCA was still awaiting clearance from the Kerala government. “We hope to get the nod from the government within a few days,” Ramesh said. “Many sports events are already taking place in different parts of the State, so we think cricket too is ready to resume after COVID-19. “We have made all arrangements for a secure bio-bubble at Alappuzha, where the Kerala camp for the Syed Mushtaq Ali T20 tournament was conducted successfully.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kca-to-go-ahead-with-t20-league/article33707485.ece
31 January 2021||Bengaluru,||No Safi Darashah tourney||With the BCCI deciding to conduct the 50-over Vijay Hazare Trophy instead of the Ranji Trophy this season, the Karnataka State Cricket Association (KSCA) will not host the long format Safi Darashah tournament as a preparatory event. The Vijay Hazare Trophy is likely to commence in mid-February, leaving little time for the KSCA and other State associations to host 50-over preparatory tournaments. However, since the Karnataka players have played a good amount of white ball cricket recently they should be well prepared for the Vijay Hazare Trophy. The Karnataka squad is likely to be selected on the basis of performances in the Y.S. Ramaswamy Memorial tournament and Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/no-safi-darashah-tourney/article33707195.ece
31 January 2021||MUMBAI,||Shelar spells out his plans ahead of BFI elections||With less than a week to go before he takes on incumbent Boxing Federation of India (BFI) president Ajay Singh, Ashish Shelar revealed his plans of giving a boost to the sport’s National fraternity. At a media interaction on Saturday, the former Maharashtra sports minister said starting an ultramodern boxing academy, BFI’s own office and getting a title sponsor as his priorities. “We have already done a lot of groundwork to transform boxing and I will reveal all of them on February 3, once we win the elections,” Shelar said. “I was pained to learn that one of India’s top sports doesn’t have an own office. We have set ourselves a deadline of three months to change that.” “A lot of resentment has built up against Ajay Singh, who had promised many things before coming to power four years back but failed to deliver on any count,” said Shelar. “Out boxers or our support staff have not got anything at all in the last four years. I have already started working on this and can reveal that a mega corporate house, with whom I have already had talks, is keen to come on board as sponsor.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/shelar-spells-out-his-plans-ahead-of-bfi-elections/article33707632.ece
31 January 2021||CHENNAI,||‘Class of 2012 one of the best England sides’||Alastair Cook’s team of 2012 remains “one of the best England sides” and although the batch of 2021 under Joe Root is getting there, it is still at a different stage of its journey, according to star batsman Jos Buttler. “That was one of the best England teams that we have ever had, quite a few amazing players. “This side is in a little bit of a different stage in terms of journey, but certainly getting towards that point,” said Buttler.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/class-of-2012-one-of-the-best-england-sides/article33707190.ece
31 January 2021||Coimbatore,||Gritty Gill sets the pace||JK Tyre’s star driver Gaurav Gill (co-driver Musa Sherif) was happy that he finally had a car that could match his speed. However, an electrical issue almost cut short his joy before he managed to stay on course and emerge the leader on the opening day of the FMSCI INRC Rally of Coimbatore on Saturday. Organised by Coimbatore Auto Sports Club and promoted by Champions Yacht Club, the two-day rally attracted over 60 entries. But all eyes were on Gill. Things were fine for him initially before the problem surfaced. The car was limping through the 20-odd kilometre third stage, but the healthy lead in the first loop kept Gill ahead. “It is not too bad because we are still leading. Whether you win by a second or a mile, a win is a win,” said Gill. Gill’s teammate Amittrajit Ghosh (Ashwin Naik) even managed an eight-second lead over him in the third stage, but his car let him down in the fourth. That was enough for Dr. Bikku Babu (Bonny Thomas), the INRC 2 driver, to jump to the second spot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/gritty-gill-sets-the-pace/article33707199.ece
31 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Hari loses||P. Harikrishna’s decision to sacrifice a knight backfired and led to his defeat against Dutchman Jorden van Foreest in the 11th round of the Tata Steel Masters chess tournament at Wijk aan Zee, in the Netherlands, on Friday. The loss saw Harikrishna (five points) slip to joint eighth. With two rounds remaining, Anish Giri (7.5) inched closer to his first major title after drawing with Magnus Carlsen.  The results (11th round): Jorden van Foreest (Ned, 7) bt P. Harikrishna (5); Magnus Carlsen (Nor, 6) drew with Anish Giri (Ned, 7.5); Aryan Tari (Nor, 5) bt Andrey Esipenko (Rus, 6.5).   Alireza Firouzja (FIDE, 7) drew with Fabiano Caruana (USA, 7); David Anton Guijar (Esp, 4) drew with Nils Grandelius (Swe, 5.5); Radoslaw Wojtaszek (Pol, 4) drew with Maxime Vachier-Lagrave (Fra, 4.5); Alexander Donchenko (Ger, 3.5) drew with Jan-Krzysztof Duda (Pol, 4.5).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/hari-loses/article33707092.ece
31 January 2021||January 31 2021 00:00 IST,||Up and running||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/up-and-running/article33707189.ece
31 January 2021||January 31 2021 00:00 IST,||Dubey Academy meets Sonnet||Four wickets by Mayank Janghu, three by Shubham Lamba and an unbeaten 96 by Samant Jakhar saw SN Dubey Academy beat Young Star Academy by seven wickets to enter the final of the seventh S.N. Dubey under-16 tournament. Aman Chaudhary picked up four wickets as Sonnet scraped past Uttaranchal Boys by one wicket.  The scores: YSA 189 in 39.2 overs (Swastik Chhikara 62, Mayank Janghu 4/41, Shubham Lamba 3/28) lost to SND Academy 192/3 in 29.2 overs (Samant Jakhar 96 n.o.).   Uttaranchal Boys 152 in 38 overs (Tarun Bisht 46, Ankit Kumar 34, Aman Chaudhary 4/26) lost to Sonnet 153/9 in 39.1 overs (Kavya Gupta 42).    Yash Adhana scored a century and Ansh Saini took three wickets as Ravinder Phagna Academy beat Airliner Academy by seven wickets in the Bal Bhawan Premier League.  The scores: Airliner Academy 183/8 in 35 overs (Granth Mehta 62, Ansh Saini 3/11) lost to RPA 184/3 in 27.3 overs (Yash Adhana 103, Sameer Khan 44 n.o.) .    Anuj Negi (78) helped Crescent CA beat Suryavanshi CF by 101 runs in the Marathon League.  The scores: Crescent Academy 224 in 30 overs (Anuj Negi 78, Arnav Rana 54) bt Suryavanshi Foundation 121 in 23.3 overs (Naman Mittal 41) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/dubey-academy-meets-sonnet/article33707335.ece
31 January 2021||Bengaluru:,||Aces Army triumphs||Aces Army defeated Shark Squad 5-3 in the final to emerge as champion of the inaugural edition of the Indian Gymkhana Billiards and Snooker League (IGBSL), held in association with MKR, at Indian Gymkhana Club here. Multiple-time cue sports world champion Pankaj Advani attended the final as the chief guest.   The results (final):   Aces Army bt Shark Squad 5-3 (Santosh bt Sunil 66-22; Amit & Raj lost to Karthik & Karan 68-32; Christy & Bhaskar bt Hari & Sardar 60-51; Manoj lost to Shree 100-13; Mohan & Reddy bt Kiran & Gopal 35-20; Sharad lost to Subbu 58-22; Joe & Vignesh bt Aradhana & Vinod 52-28; Ramesh bt Dinesh 77-65) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/aces-army-triumphs/article33707202.ece
31 January 2021||HYDERABAD:,||A day of centuries||G. Dheeraj (144, 201b, 24x4) for Rakesh XI and Ashlesh Vaman (127, 157b, 13x4, 1x6) for Vijaypuri Willowmen played well in different matches of the A2-Division (two-day) league cricket championship. There were eight more centuries — Praneeth (168, 143b, 29x4, 4x6) for National, V. Rohit (115, 164b, 15x4, 1x6) for Shalimar, Advaith (138, 150b, 24x4, 1x6) for Cheerful Chums, WMCC’s Adithya Varma (110 n.o.,130b, 16x4), M. Chakravarthi (119 n.o., 138b, 14x4, 1x6) for Vijayanand, S. Dharmik (120, 140b, 23x4) for Noble, Y. Raja Shekar (102, 115b, 16x4) for Saint Sai and CCOB’s Md. Basheeruddin (140 n.o., 224b, 24x4).  The scores:   A2-Division (two-day) league: Ours 256 in 90 overs (Koushik 57, Dhanush 56 n.o., Gautam 50, Taj 3/48) lost to Rakesh XI 257/9 in 69.2 overs (G. Dheeraj 144, D. Harsha Vardhan 62, D. Manish 4/64, Akshit Reddy 3/34).   Nizamabad Dist. 245 in 50.5 overs (Murali Krishna 73, A. Nayeem 66, Adnan Moosani 58, Abdul Khaliq Khan 4/34) lost to CCOB 246/1 in 74.3 overs (Md. Basheeruddin 140 n.o., Abdul Rahman 77 n.o.).   National 283 in 50 overs (Praneeth 168, Hussain Ali 45, K. Yash Kumar 5/58) bt Mega City 209 in 50 overs (Narain 46, Jai Kiran 39, Anand 33, Sai Karthik 5/42).   Shalimar 217 in 74.4 overs (V. Rohit 115, Ezaz Ali 4/47, Rishith Reddy 3/36) lost to Venus Cybertech 218/3 in 60.2 overs (K. Shrunuth Rao 30, Rishith Reddy 50, M.S. Karthikeya 58, Prem Mandhar 41 n.o.).   Cheerful Chums 249 in 64.4 overs (Advaith 138, Devarsh Khatri 5/61, Sai Krishna 3/53) lost to WMCC 254/9 in 81 overs (Arun Mishra 46, Anish Reddy 67, Adithya Varma 110 n.o., T.N.R. Mohit 4/31).   HBCC 349 in 66 overs (Vishesh 47, Rodriges 46, Shushant 45, Mudassir Ahmed 5/80, Abudl Rahim 3/56) bt Elegant 171 in 72.1 overs (Wasim Numan 35, Syed Rahman 40, Vishesh Anand 3/41).   HUCC 269 in 86.2 overs bt Team Speed 255 in 51.3 overs (M.A. Jayant 68, Amber Kumar 57 n.o., Azharuddin 6/46, Vikrant Reddy 3/8).   Group- 2: Abhinav Colts 378 in 87.1 overs lost to Vijaypuri Willowmen 380/8 in 87.2 overs (Ashlesh Vaman 127, Anudeep Javvaji 75, Md. Ayub Khan 70, Harish Reddy 4/ 55).   Acrylic 287 in 68.1 overs (Sankeerth Dhatrak 64, Vasu Dev Raju 65, Ravi Kumar 33, P.M.S. Reddy 33 n.o.) bt Hyderabad Cricket Academy 158 in 44.5 overs (Sankeerth Dhatrak 5/36).   Vijayanand 434/9 in 90 overs (B. Srujan 65, P.S. Ravi Teja 84, M. Chakravarthi 119 n.o., T. Atchyuth Hemanth 46) bt Shanthi 136 in 52.4 overs (S. Venkatesh 34, M. Manikanta Charan 5/34).   Noble 411 in 87 overs (S. Dharmik 120, Y. Aakash 30, B. Ambarish 75, Krishna Kant Tiwari 80, R. Hanuma Nayak 3/83, Y. Raja Shekar 3/68) bt Saint Sai 368/8 in 90 overs (G. Shiva Mani 85, Y. Raja Shekar 102, P. Mohammed Taib 74, Md. Khaja 32, Krishna Kant Tiwari 3/65).   SK Blues 174 in 60.1 overs (Ritvik 39, Srikar 77, B. Kumar 3/11) lost to Warangal Dist. 177/6 in 37.3 overs (N.S. Nayaneth 34 n.o., B. Aditya 3/83).   Swastik 160 in 53 overs bt International 145 in 58.1 overs (K.V. Karthikeya 57, Vijay Reddy 39, M.S. Manish 3/16, T. Sahith 4/44).   Tirumala 234 in 79.5 overs bt Victoria 153 in 45 overs (Prabath Gupta 57, P. Sai Charan 47, Krishna Rao 5/21).        Hyderabad Cricket Association (HCA) will conduct open selections for women (under-23 and 19) from 11 a.m. on February 3 and 4 at Rajiv Gandhi Stadium (Uppal). This is to pick the State team for the forthcoming all-India one-day tournaments. State players who have represented Hyderabad are exempted and interested should report with original date of birth certificate and Aadhar Card, along with copies, and also COVID-19 negative report.   The Telangana State Masters sports meet will be held on Feb. 20 and 21 at MLRIT. Competitions will be held in table tennis, badminton, basketball, football, volleyball, cycling archery, handball, weightlifting, hockey (BHEL ground), tennis and swimming.  Masters athletics meet Meanwhile, the Telangana Masters athletics meet will also be held at MLRIT on Feb. 13 and 14. Call M. Prabhakar Rao, general secretary, Telangana Masters Games Association, on 9346937215.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/a-day-of-centuries/article33707438.ece
31 January 2021||Thiruvananthapuram:,||Idukki wins team title||Idukki won the team title in the 17th State Mountain Bike cycling championships here on Saturday.  The results (Mass start finals):   Boys: Youth: 1. P.A. Avinash Sreedhar (Ktm), 2. Abhishek S. Nair (Ekm), 3. S.P. Vignesh (Tvm). Junior: 1. Nibin Baby (Idk), 2. Kiran Kannan (Idk), 3. George G. Kunnathussery (Idk). Sub-juniors: 1. Atharva Paul (Tvm), 2. S.S. Adwaith Sankar (Tvm), 3. V.R. Akash (Tvm).   Girls: Youth: 1. Srushti Sanjay Kumbhoje (Tvm), 2. V.S. Sanjana (Ekm), 3. P. Devmitra (Ktm). Junior: 1. Binilamol Gibi (Idk), 2. Surya Santosh (Pth), 3. P. Prathibha (Idk). Sub-juniors: 1. Agxa Ann Thomas (Idk), 2. Theertha S. Nair (Koz), 3. R. Anugraha (Koz).   Team championships: 1. Idukki (20 points), 2. Thiruvananthapuram (15 pts), 3. Kottayam (6 pts) .    V.S. Sabarinath remained unbeaten in the TCTDS invitation prize money tennis tournament at the Ramanathan Krishnan Tennis Complex here on Saturday. The tournament is organised by TCTDS as part of its 21st anniversary celebrations and is contested by six top players in the State.  The results (league): V.S. Sabarinath bt M.C. Nithin 9-4; H. Suraj bt R.V. Vimal Chandran 9-6; Nithin bt Vimal Chandran 9-7; Sabarinath bt H. Suraj 9-9(3).   Jethin S. Raj bt Suraj 9-3; G.S. Sanjay bt Jethin 9-7; Sabarinath bt Vimal Chandran 9-3; Jethin bt Vimal Chandran 9-4; Sabarinath bt Sanjay 9-6.       The Table Tennis Association of Kerala (TTAK) has named the State senior teams for the senior National TT championships. The selection was based on the performance in the recent State championships conducted by TTAK.  The teams: Men: Soham Bhattacharya, Udit Bhattacharya, Amir Afthab, Bharath Krishnan, Adithya V. Joseph. Reserves: Aswin Gokul & K.S. Sreehari.   Women: Bhaavan Menon, Anamika Johns, Jasmin Sunny, R. Aswani, K. Ankitha. Reserves: Smrithi Krishna & Maria Cicily Joshy .    Masters, Fort Kochi, defeated Aluva Veterans 1-0 in the EDFA’s first Masters football tournament at the Sports Academy, Panampilly Nagar, Kochi, on Saturday. P.J. Sajil scored the lone goal in the 37th minute.   M.S. Akhil’s four wickets and K. Sreenath’s unbeaten half-century helped Tripunithura CC ‘B’ defeat North Paravur’s YCC by six wickets in the Ernakulam A-Division Cricket League at the Rajagiri College ground, Kakkanad, on Saturday. In another match, Swantons CC beat Muthoot Microfin by five runs.  The scores:   YCC, North Paravur 154 in 35 overs (Rohith M. Menon 81, M.S. Akhil 4/43) lost to Tripunithura CC ‘B’ 160/4 in 28 overs (K. Sreenath 53 n.o., N.M. Sharafuddeen 46 n.o.) at Rajagiri College, Kakkanad.   Swantons CC 219 in 50 overs (Ribin Varghese 54, Appu Prakash 37, Vimal Raj 4/43) bt Muthoot Microfin 214 in 49.1 overs (Adarsh Dileep Kumar 41, Akhil Anil 40, Monu Krishna 3/49) at St. Paul’s College, Kalamassery.    Palakkad Colts crushed Devamatha Cricket Academy by eight wickets and entered the final of the Loongs C. Sneharaj Trophy under-16 all-Kerala cricket tournament here on Saturday. Niranjan Prakash (59) and Vaibhav Nidhi (53) scored half-centuries as the Palakkad side easily chased down a target of 165 runs with more than five overs to spare.  The scores:   Devamatha Cricket Academy 164/9 in 25 overs (Aaryan Hareesh 34, A. Jishnu 4/19) lost to Palakkad Colts 168/2 in 19.3 overs (Niranjan Prakash 59, Vaibhav Nidhi 53).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/idukki-wins-team-title/article33707554.ece
31 January 2021||January 31 2021 00:00 IST,||ENGAGEMENTS||At Coimbatore   Golf: Manchester Cup, Coimbatore Golf Club, 6.45 a.m.   At Palladam   Motorsports: INRC Rally of Coimbatore, Kethanur Windmill farm, 11 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/engagements/article33707304.ece
31 January 2021||January 31 2021 00:00 IST,||ENGAGEMENTS||Cricket: TNCA league, II div., Plate: M.Ct.Old Boys vs ICF (Wahe Guru ‘A’); CromBest vs Parry’s (SSN); Southern Railway vs SPIC (Southern Railway), 9 a.m.; III-A: Egmore RC vs Southern Railway (IC-Gurunanak); Nungambakkam CC vs Theagaraya (TI-Murugappa); CUC vs KMC (Cricket Drome); Reserve Bank vs BRC (Magna); Falcon vs Jupiter (Omega College); IV-B: Chennai Port vs Jubilee (St. Patrick’s); Komaleeswarar vs Twentieth Century (St. Bede’s ‘A’); GE T&D vs Bharathi SC (Sumangali Santhosapuram, matting); Mambalam Mosquitos vs Sridhar (Sumangali, turf); V-B:  TANGEDCO vs Prasad (Sumangali Medavakkam, matting); Egmore Club vs NUC (St. Bede’s ‘B’); Ashley Biggs vs Gopalapuram (CPT-IP, matting); Eagle vs YMCC (Union); HSBC vs Dorairaj MCC (Engg.), 9.30 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/engagements/article33707245.ece
31 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Ramkumar-Purav duo bows out||Ramkumar Ramanathan and Purav Raja lost 1-6, 3-6 to Alessandro Giannessi and Lorenzo Musetti of Italy in the doubles pre-quarterfinals of the €44,820 Challenger tennis tournament in Antalya.  Other result:   $15,000 ITF women, Cairo, Egypt: Doubles (semifinals): Quirine Lemoine & Gabriella Mujan (Ned) bt Bojana Marinkovic (Srb) & Riya Bhatia 6-0, 6-2.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ramkumar-purav-duo-bows-out/article33707095.ece
31 January 2021||LOS ANGELES,||Jazz on a roll with 11th straight win||Bojan Bogdanovic put his stamp on a season-high 32-point performance with seven three-pointers as Utah Jazz claimed its 11th straight win by cruising to a 120-101 victory over Dallas Mavericks on Friday.  Other results: Orlando Magic 90 lost to LA Clippers 116; San Antonio Spurs 119 bt Denver Nuggets 109; Toronto Raptors 124 lost to Sacramento Kings 126; Minnesota Timberwolves 94 lost to Philadelphia 76ers 118.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/jazz-on-a-roll-with-11th-straight-win/article33707198.ece
31 January 2021||January 31 2021 07:55 IST,||Sudoku — January 31, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-january-31-2021/article33707802.ece
31 January 2021||January 31 2021 00:00 IST,||bathe||Sarah Ballantyne stopped using soap on her body years ago. This medical biophysicist turned author uses only water to wash. Closer home, Milind Soman also revealed he doesn’t use soap. So, is this the right way to bathe? Dr. Apratim Goel, dermatologist, Cutis Skin Solution, Mumbai, explains, “Soap is alkaline in nature and this helps control the growth of bacteria and viruses while removing the excess oil and sebum from our skin. It is therefore important to include it in our bath.” The process Dr. Renita Rajan, chief consultant dermatologist, RENDER Skin and Hair, Chennai, says it is ideal to bathe at least once a day. “As the humid climate in our country makes us sweat, anything less is not practical.” And downright unhygienic. Wash your face with a gentle cleanser before you step into the bath area. Stick to lukewarm water to bathe. “Hot water can leave your skin dehydrated and sensitive,” she says. Start with your neck and wash the entire body downwards. Remember to clean in the crevices: between your toes, your armpits. Dr. Rajan suggests using soap with a pH between five and six. “This is very close to the natural pH of the skin and will not strip a lot of moisture making it excessively dry,” she says. It is best to use soap not overloaded with perfume and artificial colours in it. “Such products can irritate the skin. We should also avoid excessive physical exfoliation. A lot of scrubbing and rubbing can lead to pigmentation on Indian skin,” she adds. Shampoo vs conditioner Wash your hair thrice a week with shampoo and conditioner. “The purpose of shampoo and conditioner is different so using a two in one product, may not give the desired results. While shampooing, concentrate on the scalp and the roots,” says Dr. Goel. Wash it off with lukewarm water before applying the conditioner. While a shampoo helps to open up the cuticles, the conditioner works to close them. “Make sure the conditioner does not touch the roots as it makes the hair limp and lose its volume. Leave it on for two to five minutes before you wash this off in cold water.” People with short hair can use a hair serum instead of a conditioner. Squeeze out a few drops of it and run it through the scalp on towell-dried hair. “It will take care of the frizz, ” explains Dr. Goel. Once done with the bath, towel dry and apply moisturiser to keep the skin hydrated. What does Ayurveda say? Ayurveda recommends a daily bath early in the morning. “ Snana or bath is much discussed in Ayurveda. We should oil our head, feet and ears every day before our bath. This helps to improve circulation,” says Dr. Valsala Varrier, chief medical officer, Arya Vaidya Sala Kottakkal, Coimbatore. She suggests using green gram powder or gram flour to wash off this oil from your head and body. “We can also use thaali, a paste made by grinding the leaves and flowers of hibiscus and henna on the head. This cleanses and cools. Always remember to wash the body with lukewarm water and the head in cold water,” she says.  In this column, we introduce you to or remind you of basic wellness hacks||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/bathe/article33707543.ece
31 January 2021||January 31 2021 00:00 IST,||Veteran officers become icons of digital transformation||The voice from the coalface is light-years removed from other voices. It pulsates with the conviction of a deeply and fully lived experience. The coalface is a challenging place; also an exciting one. That is what makes coalface-dwellers, good raconteurs. Here are fleeting glimpses into what two “raconteurs” shared from the coalface of their respective professions, in two separate but related webinars, when the pandemic was at its height. They were addressing a group in Chennai. So, first up, here is Karun Chandhok on his “first day at work” as an F1 Race Driver. Karun divides a typical racing driver’s career into three chapters: First, the preparatory path to F1. Second, being in F1 as a test driver and race driver. Third, “Post-F1, what you do with it”. Karun recalls how after 10 years of intense and rigorous preparation, the first day of Chapter 2 dawned in 2010 in Bahrain. This scene unfolds at the paddock. “It was also the year Michael Schumacher had come back from a sabbatical. He had stopped racing at the end of 2006 and he had three years away and he had come back. All of a sudden, we have the biggest in our sport at that time returning to the sport. And Schumacher was one of my heroes. I had his poster on my wall in my bedroom as a child. That first day I arrived, he was the first driver to come and shake my hand and say, “Welcome to F1!” He wanted to know a little bit about me. He wanted to know how does somebody from India come into the sport. This was a seven-time world champion and I was a nobody. It is something I will always appreciate of Michael.” In his online session, wildlife photographer and filmmaker Alphonse Roy regales the audience with how his life took a “wild” turn for the better. He draws attention to how his father, a photographer serving in the Indian railways, would surprise little Alphonse with unannounced weekend wildlife trips. Alphonse particularly remembers how he was once whisked away to the railway station, straight from school, on a Friday evening. With the school bag deposited at a book stall in the railway station, the family hopped into a train to Calcutta. “The reason: the tiger at the Calcutta zoo had delivered four cubs.” Tours rustled up with mercurially sudden and quick planning were common. “Suddenly, in the middle of my exams, my father would take me to Thekaddy. That is how my interest in wildlife started,” explains Alphonse. “By the time, I was kind of 10 to 11 years old, I was interested in photography, and my father took me to film the lion-tailed macaque at Manjolai Estate on Western Ghats, beyond Tirunelveli, in Kalakkad-Mundanthurai Tiger Reserve.” The father-son duo had gone “along with American researcher Stephen Green, who was carrying out research on the lion-tailed macaque, a species endemic to the Western Ghats.” Though the filming process was likely something Alphonse would have looked forward to, the journey was proving to be a dampener on his enthusiasm. Alphonse elaborates that his father was filming in black and white, with a hand-cranked Bolex camera. “In a day they walked something like 9 to 12 kilometres. And I was around 10 or 11 years old. I was bitten by leeches. At the end of the day, I said never again am I going to step into the forests,” says Alphonse, with a fleeting hint of an effort to squeeze the smouldering disenchantment that he had felt that day, into his voice. His face settling into what can be called a promise of a half-smile, he says, “Things changed for me. I learnt how to live life sitting in the forests.” These two webinars are part of an e-Connect Series this group in Chennai has been organising for its members, for their elucidation about diverse professions, particularly the protagonists’ personal journeys. This group is itself associated with a profession whose coalface is fraught with experiences that stretch a whole galaxy out of the ordinary. They are retired officers of armed services who have settled down in Chennai: Armed Forces Veteran Officers Association (AFVOA) Chennai. Though locked-down due to the pandemic, they found a way to keep the spirit of freedom fluttering across geographies through technology. To illustrate, Karun Chandhok did that webinar for these Chennai veteran officers from the United Kingdom. With the youngest in their sixties and the oldest in their nineties, the group has demonstrated that senior digital-immigrants may not be as far behind on the technology learning curve as usually perceived. At last count, they had done 21 webinars, some of which can be accessed at their YouTube Channel, whose link is found in their website (www.afvoa.in). It is not so much the numbers as how they have curated the series that makes the exercise singular. As the AFVOA Chennai organisers put it, the e-Connect Series chooses to bring diverse professionals into focus. The novelty of what they have to offer is another consideration. “Now that we have settled down in civil life, we want to generally look at varied subjects under the sun. Our president at AFVOA Chennai, Air Marshal Simhakutty Varthaman has been greatly influencing the selection of subjects and speakers. The entire credit goes to him for making those selections,” explains Wing Commander C. Ravishankar, a member of the executive committee, which AFVOA Chennai’s managing committee consults in matters pertaining to certain specialisations. Wg Cdr Ravishankar, 65 years old, is in his second career as an IT consultant, and brings the tech skills to what he does for AFVOA Chennai. Though the focus is certainly not on being wired into the minds of celebrity-professionals, now and then, the search does point in that direction. So, among those featured by the series are: singer-composer Shankar Mahadevan and Carnatic vocalist-singer-composer Sudha Ragunathan, dramatist-actor-singer-playwright Y Gee Mahendra and media artist Shylaja Chetlur. Wing Commander Rakesh Sharma is the only person featured from the armed forces, but even he spoke about space, which of course is an obvious thing to expect and want from a man who saw India from up and out there and added new vigour to the line — “ Saare Jahan Se Accha”.  Diversity of speakers and subjects, some of which best described as “offbeat”, brings with it the need for preparation by the moderators. For example, historian and heritage-activist V Sriram, took the veterans to the East India Company in Madras, and it is a subject that the moderator would have had to considerably brush up on through focussed reading. To give another example, reportedly, one of the talks expected to come up a few fortnights down the line would be delivered by a scientist who lives in Australia and has carried out research in Antarctica, which would be the subject of her discussion. “Except for one session, I have been moderator-interviewer through the e-Connect Series. Though having the speaker send in the bio-data helps, that is not a substitute for adequate preparation. It is essential to do a study about the speaker and the subject. We have a question-answer session at the end; but one has to be prepared for a situation where questions would not come in sufficient numbers from the audience,” says Wg Cdr Harshavardhan, adding that every time, he heads into a session with a rescue package of at least eight questions that he could put to the speaker, and fill any uneasy gaps of silence. “If people have asked some of the questions on the list, I cut them out, and ask the rest.” Preparation has enabled Harshavardhan to play it by the ear, whenever required. Some speakers would want to recast the format in a structure they are more comfortable with. “Some speakers may want to have it interactive from the get-go. It was like that with Karun Chandhok and Shankar Mahadevan. Shankar Mahadevan’s session was on December 16, at 7 p.m. Around 5.45 p.m., he called me and during the conversation, he said, “Instead of speaking about myself, I should let you ask me questions that I would answer. In-between, I would sing a few songs. I could not say ‘no’ to him, though I had only around an hour to go. The questions that I had already prepared were helpful. As the session started, my wife was sitting next to me, and she kept writing some chits and sending them to me. That was one of the good shows,” laughs Wg Cdr Harshavardhan. Though, initially, the e-Connect Series was planned as a weekly feature, every Sunday, it has settled into a fortnightly fare — again, generally a Sunday event, but also planned ad hoc particularly when a speaker’s availability has to be factored in — so that the veteran officers can keep their screen time well under permissible limits.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/veteran-officers-become-icons-of-digital-transformation/article33706950.ece
31 January 2021||January 31 2021 00:00 IST,||Barking out a message against spitting||Spitting in public places is disgusting, but how many would protest when they see someone do that? Six furry friends — Nila, Johnny, Mouse, Scooby, Kip and Enzo — address this indifferent attitude through a video. Except for Scooby, a Dalmatian, these are all rescued street dogs. A Chennai-based team has created this video for the all-India campaign, StopIndiaSpitting. Beautiful Bharat, a group comprising individuals and organisations that work to have measures to prevent this habit, is leading the StopIndiaSpitting campaign. The video was conceptualised and visualised by Ashwin Sridhar and Shilpa Raghavan of Tales with Tails 269, a Chennai-based centre for animal-assisted interventions. Thejas Mohan has given the music and Dilip is the cinematographer. Set in a quiet neighbourhood, the story begins with Nila, a fitness enthusiast, going on a morning walk. Others seen in the street are Mouse that is head- bobbing to music, and Johnny, onion seller, setting up his space in the corner of the street. Enzo steps out of a car on the pretext of buying onions and throws his mask and spits on the street when Scooby registers her disapproval with a bark. Others join in with a woof, ruff, bow-wow and howl. Kip is presented as the activist who lends support to others. “What we loved about this latest addition to the campaign resources by our newest partner is that it makes a strong call to viewers to speak out against spitting in public places,” says Odette Katrak, co-founder, Beautiful Bharat. She says most people take a bystander’s stance when they encounter spitting in a public place. “That means habitual spitters view it as license and would continue with the practice of spitting. The collective impact of bystander silence rolls out to another manifestation of social apathy and that is what we need to break,” she says. StopIndiaSpitting has also been asking people to explain why spitting in the public is bad. “Spitting spreads Corona,” says Odette. The team behind this video say that executing this project was possible because of the rapport each of them have established through carefully structured training programmes. “None of the dogs were under duress during any point of the filming process. As most of the dogs are also our companion animals, it was easy to train them. Each dog was given a role based on their strength. For instance, Scooby and Johnny are the oldest in the team and the latter has worked as a therapy dog too,” says Shilpa, a psychologist and certified Animal-Assisted-Therapy Practitioner. She says the shooting was done in two places — Kottivakkam and West Mambalam. By using animals, the team wants to send across another message. “Rescued dogs, irrespective of how old they are, can also be trained. And, if dogs can be disciplined then we too can,” she says. The video ends with a takeaway. Enzo is embarrassed about what he did, and Kip is seen holding a ‘#Stop India Spitting’ placard. Watch the video at https://youtu.be/SjgMAp1wJ3A||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/barking-out-a-message-against-spitting/article33706932.ece
31 January 2021||January 31 2021 00:00 IST,||A well springs back to life||“Once you carry your own water, you will learn the value of every drop.” One of the many quotes on Public Well Revival Movement’s Facebook page. What makes it arresting is the image that meshes with it: Three men working hard to fix a pulley on a well at Aadiyur, Tamil Nadu. The photo is a reminder that each of us have to do whatever we should and can to preserve and recharge our water resources to the maximum extent possible. Inspired by the works of Swami Nigamananda  and Anupam Mishra, Public Well Revival Movement (PWRM) was started two years ago to revive public wells in the villages of Tamil Nadu. The Movement is led by a motley group of individuals drawn from Cuckoo Forest School and Chennai-based Akarmaa Foundation. The movement is currently focused on reviving defunct wells in and around Tiruvannamalai. “We started the drive by reviving an old well near the school and we have so far completed work on six wells in Tiruvannamalai,” says Kaushik Kumar, one of the founders of Akarmaa Foundation, a group with environment, education and heritage as its focus areas. They identify a well either with the help of the local people or on their own. The local authority is apprised about the project after which we clean the space around the well for accessibility, says Kaushik. Later, the well is de-watered and de-silted and the outer periphery of the well is spruced up with artwork where the children from the community are involved in designing motifs. It takes at least a month to revive a well. For example, before starting work on the well at Aadiyur village, the villagers were apprehensive. “It is usually children and youth who are drawn towards our work first. Slowly, the elders start sharing stories about the well and how it was used in the past and that is how we engage the community and try to create a sense of ownership about the well,” says Kaushik. On the request of an elderly woman, in addition to the revival of well, a small tank was installed next to the well in Aadiyur. To create awareness about reviving wells, PWRM has brought out a table calendar dedicated to Late Anupam Mishra, well-known environmentalist and water conservationist, who was a pioneer in the restoration of traditional water systems in Rajasthan. The calendar has images of the various wells revived by PWRM as well as of the stepwells of Hyderabad that is currently being revived. The calendar is designed as a detachable postcard on one side and month on other and can be gifted as a fundraiser for revival of public wells. Those who wish to be gifted/ gift the calendar can fill in the form below:https://bit.ly/2XS6jKr. Last year, a similar calendar initiative showcased the tanks of Karnataka. The group is also encouraging people to bring to their notice, wells that need attention.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-well-springs-back-to-life/article33706961.ece
31 January 2021||January 31 2021 00:00 IST,||A section of Musiri Subramaniam Road turned into a ‘parking lot’||Haphazard parking on a section of Musiri Subramaniam Road — between Nageshwara Rao Park and Anjaneyar temple in Alwarpet — is giving pedestrians a three-Aspirin headache. Residents find this problem a thorn in their side, through they have been trying to put up with it for a long time. Motorists, mainly motorcyclists, have to put themselves at risk for accidents while negotiating the narrow stretch, which is a one-way route. Near Nageshwara Rao park, vehicles are also parked on the tiled footpath forcing pedestrians to walk on the carriageway. Being a busy link road, Musiri Subramaniam Road sees traffic through the day. It serves as an important link for motorists from Mylapore, Mandaveli and Santhome to reach TTK Road. Motorists coming from Alwarpet junction have to take Musiri Subramaniam Road to reach these places. “The stretch is a key link connecting Luz and Alwarpet junctions, but we have not found any solution to this problem,” says K. Srinivas, a motorist from Mylapore. Most of the traffic police personnel are present only at key intersections like Luz Corner junction, TTK Road junction and P.S. Sivasamy Salai intersection as these three spots are VIP routes used by senior bureaucrats, police officers, industrialists and ministers on their way to reach many other parts of the city. These intersections witness a considerable degree of vehicular movement, and the small stretches that connect these intersections are left unregulated, which makes it easy for motorists to encroach upon these lanes. “Steps will be taken to remove such illegal parking on Musiri Subramaniam Road soon,” police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-section-of-musiri-subramaniam-road-turned-into-a-parking-lot/article33706940.ece
31 January 2021||January 31 2021 00:00 IST,||Indian Grey Hornbill shows up at Adyar Estuary||A patch at Adyar Estuary demonstrates the Patagonia Picnic Basket Effect. With one goggle-eyed record after another, birders flock to it expecting megaticks. Obviously, this expectation ends up more often in disappointments. However, the rarities do come along just in time to refresh the patch’s reputation for big-ticket sightings. So, well-hoofed, the patch has an impressively long check-list to offer. The patch added one more rare, grey feather to its heavily decorated cap on January 23. This patch runs alongside the Theosophical Society compound wall, and the closest landmark is the broken bridge. On January 23, Lakshmi Arunachalam and her husband Prabhu Mathiyalagan turned around, having brought an early-morning birding session to a close. A bird coming out of nowhere had no idea they were done birding for the day. It was an Indian Grey Hornbill announcing its presence to them, with excited squeals. Lakshmi’s eBird record has a note: “We first heard its call. Then we spotted it and it was hopping on tree top branches all the while calling.” Prabhu recalls how its calls first led him to believe he was in the presence of a raptor. The bird was found on the other side of the wall, inside the Theosophical Society. From what is known about this species, its appearance in an urban setting is nothing to wire home about. It is known for its adaptability to urban environments. That day, it showed up in an arboreal space, which again is its natural environment. eBird reviewer Vikas Madhav Nagarajan points out that what makes the sighting truly remarkable is not so much the sighting itself as what preceded it: Years, in fact decades of silence. “An Indian Grey Hornbill sighting closest to Chennai is at Javadhi Hills, where I had seen a pair of them,” says Vikas. He underlines that the Indian Grey Hornbill is not migratory in these parts, and technically a resident. As it had not disturbed the record books, the news of its sighting was received just as that of a rare visitor would be. The only reasonable response to this sighting is that the patch has to be monitored, with eyes peeled back. The Indian Grey Hornbill is usually found as a pair, even in a small group, and rarely all by itself. Says Vikas, “There is only one time that I have seen the Indian Grey Hornbill alone, but even then the bird was in a mixed flock.” Let us get back to the patch and its almost talismanic power to host rare sightings, of which there are many. However, one that remains etched, in part because it is more recent than most others, is the sighting of the the Daurian Starling on October 6, 2018 by Aravind AM. The next day, Vivek Puliyeri would head to the patch, and be greeted with the sight of the same bird. On September 16, 2016, Vivek had sighted an Orange-breasted Green Pigeon at this patch. On November 2, 2016, ecologist and bird researcher P. Hopeland would see one, most likely the same bird. eBird lists only one observation of a Jungle Babbler with photographic evidence within Chennai, and where does this sighting come from? At this very patch, on October 6, 2017, a Jungle Babbler crossed Vivek’s path. There are only three records of the European Roller, with photographic evidence, and they are by Rama Neelamegam (October 13, 2018) and Vikas and Sidharth Srinivasan (both on Octover 17, 2018) and they come from around this patch in Adyar Estuary. In a classic case of Patagonia Picnic Basket Effect, sightings of the Black-Capped Kingfisher at the patch generated considerable interest among birders in 2017 and 2018. “There are three places that one is mostly likely to sight the Black-capped Kingfisher: the Adyar Estuary, Pulicat and Kelambakkam. At this patch, birder Arvind Amritraj has seen three Black-capped Kingfishers on the other side of the wall, inside TS, on an occasion when he had got permission to go birding inside the campus,” says Rama. The Black-capped Kingfisher is at home in coastal and estuarine habitats, especially when marked by mangroves. Rama continues: “There was one spot near the patch where a Black-capped Kingfisher would be sitting, drawing a lot of attention from birders. It was out in the open, sitting exactly opposite SSTCN’s hut-like enclosure created to keep Olive Ridley eggs, and this had become a landmark of sorts. Many birders would head to the patch for a glimpse of this bird, though there is no telling if it was always the same bird that would sit perched there, day after day. This was in 2017-2018. But both in 2019 and 2020, there have been no records of sightings of the Black-capped Kingfisher in these known haunts.” The lone Black-capped Kingfisher at this patch became something of a local legend, points out Arvind AM, and adds: “During one trip to the estuary, I saw a few waders and when I was coming back disappointed, I saw this Black-capped Kingfisher.” That made his day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/indian-grey-hornbill-shows-up-at-adyar-estuary/article33706969.ece
31 January 2021||January 31 2021 00:00 IST,||Veteran officers switch to eBooks||It was a 20-page printed newsletter, which suddenly became a leaden commitment to carry. In the light of an easier alternative, it was also a needless burden to bear. From formatting to printing and distribution, the processes had soaked up significant time and resources, but remained unquestioned, till the pandemic came along with its compelling demands which in turn led to better use of available technologies. “The pioneers of AFVOA Chennai had been taking the trouble to prepare 20-page newsletters in Word format, print and send the 250 copies by post,” says Wing Commander C. Ravishankar, who is editor for the Association's newsletter. “We have simplified the process by releasing the newsletter in the eBook format. We started the practice in May, the first eBook (called Lockdown Issue; 101 pages) being released on May 3. The response led us to make it a regular feature; and the second issue of the eBook arrived on August 15 as Independence Day Issue (237 pages). The Third one was the Vijay Diwas issue on December 16 (167 pages),” points out Wg Cdr Ravishankar (65), who had served in the Air Force as an IT professional, and subsequently, in his second career now, he is an IT consultant. This career move imparted to him the skill sets that prove invaluable to AFVOA Chennai in its digital transformation journey. “AFVOA Chennai is an inter-services veterans association consisting of members from all three wings of the armed forces. From October 2019 onwards, Air Force veterans took charge of the Association. One of the requests that had come from all the pioneering members of AFVOA Chennai was the resumption of the newsletter. From 2014, the practice of publishing the newsletter had been discontinued for whatever reasons. Prior to that, a handful of the pioneering members had taken tremendous interest in publishing it,” Wg Cdr Ravishankar lays out the backdrop against which the switch to new-media publishing happened. In a casual discussion, just before the pandemic, Air Marshal Simhakutty Varthaman and Wing Commander S. Harshavardhan, president and secretary of AFVOA Chennai respectively, wanted to know the modalities of resuming the publication of the newsletter, says Wg Cdr Ravishankar. The plan was to convert the articles in word format into PDF format, and have them mailed to the members; and for those veterans who were not tech-savvy, a printed version of the PDFs would be sent. “However, using an eBook software, I had converted the PDFs into an eBook. As our president as well as the managing committee had given me a free hand, I did that. When I showed it to them (the president and the secretary), they were absolutely taken up with the idea. They said, ‘Why not do this?’ There has been no turning back from there. I can add that the pandemic fast-tracked the process.” The next eBook is scheduled for April 14, Tamil New Year’s Day. Wg Cdr Ravishankar underscores two sections in these eBooks: “Many members in the group are war veterans who have taken part in the wars of India. So, their accounts of first-hand experiences on the war front, go into the section called ‘War Diary’. Then, topics of general interest go under the category “memoirs”. All of us are from Chennai, but we also accept contributions from non-members who are from elsewhere, but that constitutes a small percentage of the articles.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/veteran-officers-switch-to-ebooks/article33706955.ece
31 January 2021||January 31 2021 00:00 IST,||A green playlist||Oh Re Taal Mile Nadii Ke Jal Mein   Nadi Mile Saagar Mein   Saagar Mile Kaun Se Jal Mein   Koi Jaane Naa  Lines of a song from the film Anokhi Raat that tugged at architect Mirra Kannan’s heartstrings. “These lines (a rough translation being: Waters from the lake meet the river/ While the waters from the river meet the sea/ But who does the sea meet eventually/ Nobody can say) really spoke to me about how it is possible to relate to water and its journey on earth, through our own experiences,” says Mirra, a graduate of MESAI Academy of Architecture, who has initiated an online project ‘Ears of the Earth’ that documents songs relating to natural resources. The open-source collaborative platform invites people to share songs about natural resources that impacted them the way the afore-mentioned song left an indelible impression on her. These songs would go into a playlist. She is unearthing folk songs on water and other natural resources, and trying to connect with the people to whom they are attributed. Stating that there are a raft of songs that capture the joy of engaging with the natural environment, Mirra recalls one where a person inviting another for a walk in the forest: ‘ Kaatuku poren naane, neeyum ennoda variya? Marangalil irikkum pazhangalai parithu, neeyum enakku thariya ?’ (I'm going to the forest, would you like to come with me? Will you share with me the fruits that are plucked from the trees?) Mirra, a member of Akarmaa Foundation, is a trained musician, plans to put these collections together, find meaningful translations and share it as an audio or video clip so that people develop a better understanding of nature. “Music surpasses other forms of communication, and through melodies, one is imbued with a different form of hope. As much as you are singing for nature you are singing for yourself. And this would be an interesting way to explore our relationship with nature,” she says. Those keen on knowing more about the initiative can check the Instagram page earsoftheearth. Or write toearsoftheearth@ gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-green-playlist/article33706962.ece
31 January 2021||January 31 2021 00:00 IST,||A new tea outlet in Gopalapuram||Quitting his media profession, M. Prakash decided to follow where his heart took him. As someone who loves to travel and explore cuisines of various parts of India, 40-year-old Prakash found his cup of tea – food industry. He started Pot Chai, a tea outlet in Gopalapuram, opened in November 2020. “We offer three flavours of tea: Tandoori Chai, Dhum Chai and Bis Tea. The ingredients used in Tandoori Chai and Dhum Chai are the same but the mode of cooking is different. We serve them in clay cups. Bis Tea is a name that we coined. It is nothing but Biscuit Tea. Bis Tea is offered in waffle cups which are edible. Waffle cups are of two variants: chocolate and vanilla. We avoid paper cups because it contains wax and hence these cups are said to be hazardous to health,” says Prakash, a resident of Nungambakkam. Apart from tea, the outlet also offers some starters. It includes grill chicken, mutton samosa, Kerala karimeen (pearl-spot) fish steamed, “pot” nattu kozhi thokku and crab lollipop. “We cook them is brass utensils and serve them in clay pots and areca nut plates. Also, we stick to authentic traditional recipes. For example, we source the pearl-spot fish from Calicut and follow the exact method by which the Malayalis prepare it. Likewise, our chicken dishes are prepared with Chettianadu style. Next, all our masala powders are home-ground. We try to use pepper as much as possible and abstain from using monosodium glutamate salt and artificial flavours,” says Prakash. The outlet is at shop no:3, door no:15/7, sixth street, Gopalapuram, open from 10 a.m. to 10 p.m. on all days. PH: 98842 25211.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-new-tea-outlet-in-gopalapuram/article33706935.ece
31 January 2021||January 31 2021 00:00 IST,||Flea market at Express Avenue||Express Avenue Mall is hosting a month-long flea market, starting from February 1, to encourage small and medium enterprises. Shoppers can buy handmade products from small artisans. The product categories include fancy jewellery, stationary for children, snacks from Delhi, Thailand jewellery, home furnishing, foldable table chair, dress material and carpet. Also on display are: Potteries, wooden handicraft products, Bhagalpur dupatta, Mangalgiri sari, lamps from Firozabad, skin-care products and kurtis. Time: 10.00 a.m. onwards||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/flea-market-at-express-avenue/article33706920.ece
31 January 2021||January 31 2021 00:00 IST,||Subway plagued by clogged drains||Water flows onto the road at Aranganathan subway in West Mambalam, where the traffic flow is towards T. Nagar. Due to this situation, motorists are at risk for accidents. Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) officials say the clogged rainwater storage pits along the subway are causing the water flow. Severely damaged in the 2015 floods, the subway was renovated in September 2016 along with a few other subways, including Veeran Sivalingam subway, Madley subway, RBI subway and Gengu Reddy subway. As part of the renovation, the carriageway was relaid; rainwater storage pits were desilted and new LED street lights installed. The renovation was carried out at a cost of Rs. 15 lakh by GCC. “At night, we cannot see the water on the subway. Excess water from the drain keeps overflowing onto the road continually,” says S. Kumar, a resident of Saidapet. Every day, motorists from K.K. Nagar, Ashok Nagar, Ekkatuthangal, Nesapakkam, West Mambalam, T. Nagar, and Vadapalani use Govindan Road and via Aranganathan subway and CIT Colony (Saidapet), to reach Anna Salai. This route enables motorists to skip congested traffic points including Duraisamy subway, T. Nagar bus terminus junction and Arcot Road to reach Anna Salai. However, motorists underline how unsafe it is to access the approach road — Reddy Kuppam Road which links the subway with West Mambalam. With a Tasmac liquor outlet on Reddy Kuppam Road, the stretch near the subway is crowded most of the time blocking easy traffic movement including that of MTC buses. Further, the intersection of Reddy Kuppam Road and the ramp of the subway is dug up frequently for cable repair work whicha has resulted in an uneven road. In this regard, a GCC official says, “Steps will be taken to unclog the drain.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/subway-plagued-by-clogged-drains/article33706928.ece
31 January 2021||January 31 2021 00:00 IST,||Music event in Mylapore on Feb. 2||Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan, Chennai, is organising its 174th Sadguru Sri Thigaraja Swamigal Aradhana on February 2 at its main auditorium on East Mada Street, Mylapore. Time: At 9.30 a.m. According to a press release, Pancharatna Kritis will be rendered by various artists led by Toppil B. Sairam. At 11 a.m., a film on Saint Thiagarja titled “Endharo Mahanubhavalu” by Bombay Gnanam will be screened. At 12.30 p.m., prasadham will be distributed, adds the press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/music-event-in-mylapore-on-feb-2/article33706918.ece
31 January 2021||January 31 2021 00:00 IST,||Virtual meet-up organised by Chennai Poets’ Circle||The annual seminar of the Chennai Poets’ Circle was held recently, this time virtually. Titled “Efflorescence 2020’, the event witnessed participation from people across India. The event had poems from participants in the age group of 14 to 80 years, says a press release. Prof. Dhanavel, senior professor, IIT-Madras, was the chief guest. In his presentation, he said, “Poetry springs from personal pain and sustains itself through the pain of others and “The Pandemic has been all poetry for us”.” M. Thirumeni, chairman, Chennai Poets’ Circle welcomed the gathering and S. Kannan delivered the presidential address. The Chennai Poets’ Circle is a non-sectarian, non-profit, secular literary body of individuals united for sharing Indian poetry in English. Amateur poets writing in English who wish to hone their poetic skills may contact Hema Ravi atchennaipoetscircle@gmail.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/virtual-meet-up-organised-by-chennai-poets-circle/article33706917.ece
31 January 2021||January 31 2021 00:00 IST,||MRC Nagar resident launches book||Sudha Mahesh, a resident of MRC Nagar, has come out with her second book A 360 Degree - Amplify the cause and effect ’. She is an academician and currently works as an educational consultant. The book is based on the author’s experience and observation about the changes in the field of education. She says “society needs a 360-degree view on defining the school’s purpose; a school needs a 360-degree view to amplify the cause and its effect; and a parent needs a 360-degree view on choosing a school for their child.” In 2018, she published her first book Being a 21st century educator .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/mrc-nagar-resident-launches-book/article33706924.ece
31 January 2021||January 31 2021 00:00 IST,||Honour for school||Vedanta Academy Senior Secondary School was recently awarded British Council’s International School Award (ISA) in recognition of its work “to bring the world into the classroom.” The school has also been conferred with “Rashtriya Shiksha Gaurav Puraskar –2020” award for the Best Next Generation School in Tamil Nadu by the Centre for Education Growth and Research (CEGR). The Academy is also a recipient of the FIT India Certificate of Recognition from the Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports, Government of India for taking initiatives relating to physical fitness, said a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/honour-for-school/article33706923.ece
31 January 2021||January 31 2021 00:00 IST,||Workshop on making chocolates||A workshop on making chocolates and baking cakes will be held on February 3 and 4 at No: 20, Cresent Park Street, T. Nagar. Time: From 2 p.m. to 5 p.m. A press release says the focus will be on 12 varieties of chocolates and three varieties of cakes. For details, call 99402 69288.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/workshop-on-making-chocolates/article33706926.ece
31 January 2021||January 31 2021 00:00 IST,||Why do some residents skip this lane in Chintadripet?||Venkata Gramini Street in Chintadripet seems to most things that residents of neighbourhood would look for — wide footpaths, bitumen-topped carriageway, LED street lights, stormwater drains and garbage bins. Despite these features, the street is avoided like the plague by many residents. The reason: The nuisance caused by tipplers visiting a Tasmac shop near the street’s intersection with Arunachal Road. Avoiding this section would require these residents to travel an extra half-a-kilometre to reach Arunachal Road, but they do not seem to mind it. Pushcarts selling essentials like vegetables and fruits come to the opposite end of the stretch for the sake of residents. “Earlier, we managed to remove a Tasmac shop from the main road (Arunachal Road) as it was causing traffic chaos. But, we are still fighting to get the liquor shop on Venkata Gramini Street shifted out,” says K. Anbu, a local trader. Residents point out that the Tasmac outlet is a major reason why the bins overflow with garbage just a few hours after conservancy staff clear garbage from them. With routine police patrol in the neighbourhood, residents said, the nuisance caused by tipplers continues. The Chintadripet police station is located around 100 metres from the stretch. Residents say that due to the presence of the Tasmac outlet, a row of roadside eateries has sprung up, and stray dogs feed on the food leftovers dumped in the garbage bins there. In Chintadripet, all the 10 streets including Naniappan street and Venkata Gramini street have street-corner bins apart from door-to-door collection by the civic body’s sanitary workers. The bins are mainly meant for shopkeepers in the neighbourhood to dump garbage every day. On an average, all street-corner bins in the neighbourhood generate around three tonnes of waste every day. “Steps will be taken to relocate the outlet away from the residential area soon,” says a Corporation official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/why-do-some-residents-skip-this-lane-in-chintadripet/article33706937.ece
31 January 2021||January 31 2021 00:00 IST,||Life before the pandemic||Before the pandemic, AFVOA Chennai members would have a bi-monthly meeting, which seemed to do much for them — in getting elucidated on systems around them and to make quick and strides in self-improvement and health consciousness. And of course, these are also occasions for them to unwind. Organised at Palm Grove Officers Institute in Park Town, AFVOA Chennai would usually have a subject matter expert talking to them. Three houses of Tambola, followed by lunch, are part of the other activities. AFVOA Chennai seems to have periodically organised visits to places, institutions and services to better understand them. An effort to understand the processes at work in the Metro Rail system is a ready example.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/life-before-the-pandemic/article33706957.ece
31 January 2021||January 31 2021 00:00 IST,||AGM conducted online||Wing Commander S Harshavardhan, Secretary, AFVOA Chennai, underlines that the Association had its annual general body meeting conducted on an online platform. “Initially, Registrar of Societies - Tamil Nadu did not permit such AGM meetings. Later, they allowed it, on the condition that sufficient proof is presented. We conducted the meeting, and in fact our Treasurer Gp Capt K Balasubramaniam went to submit the annual returns recently, with the Registrar of Societies, when he was told, ‘Normally, when you have an in-person meeting, along with the documents, you would present an attendance sheet that would have been signed by the people who had attended the meeting. Here, you have only given us a list: What is the proof that you have conducted the meeting? The recording was with me, and I had to burn a CD and give it to him. So, AGMs conducted online with sufficient proof are legally valid.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/agm-conducted-online/article33706958.ece
31 January 2021||January 31 2021 00:00 IST,||Military veterans make the most of technology||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/military-veterans-make-the-most-of-technology/article33706944.ece
31 January 2021||January 31 2021 00:00 IST,||A well springs back to life||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-well-springs-back-to-life/article33706946.ece
31 January 2021||January 31 2021 00:00 IST,||Indian Grey Hornbill shows up at Adyar Estuary||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/indian-grey-hornbill-shows-up-at-adyar-estuary/article33706942.ece
31 January 2021||January 31 2021 00:00 IST,||all lit up||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/all-lit-up/article33706922.ece
31 January 2021||January 31 2021 00:00 IST,||Veteran officers become icons of digital transformation||The voice from the coalface is light-years removed from other voices. It pulsates with the conviction of a deeply and fully lived experience. The coalface is a challenging place; also an exciting one. That is what makes coalface-dwellers, good raconteurs. Here are fleeting glimpses into what two “raconteurs” shared from the coalface of their respective professions, in two separate but related webinars, when the pandemic was at its height. They were addressing a group in Chennai. So, first up, here is Karun Chandhok on his “first day at work” as an F1 Race Driver. Karun divides a typical racing driver’s career into three chapters: First, the preparatory path to F1. Second, being in F1 as a test driver and race driver. Third, “Post-F1, what you do with it”. Karun recalls how after 10 years of intense and rigorous preparation, the first day of Chapter 2 dawned in 2010 in Bahrain. This scene unfolds at the paddock. “It was also the year Michael Schumacher had come back from a sabbatical. He had stopped racing at the end of 2006 and he had three years away and he had come back. All of a sudden, we have the biggest in our sport at that time returning to the sport. And Schumacher was one of my heroes. I had his poster on my wall in my bedroom as a child. That first day I arrived, he was the first driver to come and shake my hand and say, “Welcome to F1!” He wanted to know a little bit about me. He wanted to know how does somebody from India come into the sport. This was a seven-time world champion and I was a nobody. It is something I will always appreciate of Michael.” In his online session, wildlife photographer and filmmaker Alphonse Roy regales the audience with how his life took a “wild” turn for the better. He draws attention to how his father, a photographer serving in the Indian railways, would surprise little Alphonse with unannounced weekend wildlife trips. Alphonse particularly remembers how he was once whisked away to the railway station, straight from school, on a Friday evening. With the school bag deposited at a book stall in the railway station, the family hopped into a train to Calcutta. “The reason: the tiger at the Calcutta zoo had delivered four cubs.” Tours rustled up with mercurially sudden and quick planning were common. “Suddenly, in the middle of my exams, my father would take me to Thekaddy. That is how my interest in wildlife started,” explains Alphonse. “By the time, I was kind of 10 to 11 years old, I was interested in photography, and my father took me to film the lion-tailed macaque at Manjolai Estate on Western Ghats, beyond Tirunelveli, in Kalakkad-Mundanthurai Tiger Reserve.” The father-son duo had gone “along with American researcher Stephen Green, who was carrying out research on the lion-tailed macaque, a species endemic to the Western Ghats.” Though the filming process was likely something Alphonse would have looked forward to, the journey was proving to be a dampener on his enthusiasm. Alphonse elaborates that his father was filming in black and white, with a hand-cranked Bolex camera. “In a day they walked something like 9 to 12 kilometres. And I was around 10 or 11 years old. I was bitten by leeches. At the end of the day, I said never again am I going to step into the forests,” says Alphonse, with a fleeting hint of an effort to squeeze the smouldering disenchantment that he had felt that day, into his voice. His face settling into what can be called a promise of a half-smile, he says, “Things changed for me. I learnt how to live life sitting in the forests.” These two webinars are part of an e-Connect Series this group in Chennai has been organising for its members, for their elucidation about diverse professions, particularly the protagonists’ personal journeys. This group is itself associated with a profession whose coalface is fraught with experiences that stretch a whole galaxy out of the ordinary. They are retired officers of armed services who have settled down in Chennai: Armed Forces Veteran Officers Association (AFVOA) Chennai. Though locked-down due to the pandemic, they found a way to keep the spirit of freedom fluttering across geographies through technology. To illustrate, Karun Chandhok did that webinar for these Chennai veteran officers from the United Kingdom. With the youngest in their sixties and the oldest in their nineties, the group has demonstrated that senior digital-immigrants may not be as far behind on the technology learning curve as usually perceived. At last count, they had done 21 webinars, some of which can be accessed at their YouTube Channel, whose link is found in their website (www.afvoa.in). It is not so much the numbers as how they have curated the series that makes the exercise singular. As the AFVOA Chennai organisers put it, the e-Connect Series chooses to bring diverse professionals into focus. The novelty of what they have to offer is another consideration. “Now that we have settled down in civil life, we want to generally look at varied subjects under the sun. Our president at AFVOA Chennai, Air Marshal Simhakutty Varthaman has been greatly influencing the selection of subjects and speakers. The entire credit goes to him for making those selections,” explains Wing Commander C. Ravishankar, a member of the executive committee, which AFVOA Chennai’s managing committee consults in matters pertaining to certain specialisations. Wg Cdr Ravishankar, 65 years old, is in his second career as an IT consultant, and brings the tech skills to what he does for AFVOA Chennai. Though the focus is certainly not on being wired into the minds of celebrity-professionals, now and then, the search does point in that direction. So, among those featured by the series are: singer-composer Shankar Mahadevan and Carnatic vocalist-singer-composer Sudha Ragunathan, dramatist-actor-singer-playwright Y Gee Mahendra and media artist Shylaja Chetlur. Wing Commander Rakesh Sharma is the only person featured from the armed forces, but even he spoke about space, which of course is an obvious thing to expect and want from a man who saw India from up and out there and added new vigour to the line — “ Saare Jahan Se Accha”.  Diversity of speakers and subjects, some of which best described as “offbeat”, brings with it the need for preparation by the moderators. For example, historian and heritage-activist V Sriram, took the veterans to the East India Company in Madras, and it is a subject that the moderator would have had to considerably brush up on through focussed reading. To give another example, reportedly, one of the talks expected to come up a few fortnights down the line would be delivered by a scientist who lives in Australia and has carried out research in Antarctica, which would be the subject of her discussion. “Except for one session, I have been moderator-interviewer through the e-Connect Series. Though having the speaker send in the bio-data helps, that is not a substitute for adequate preparation. It is essential to do a study about the speaker and the subject. We have a question-answer session at the end; but one has to be prepared for a situation where questions would not come in sufficient numbers from the audience,” says Wg Cdr Harshavardhan, adding that every time, he heads into a session with a rescue package of at least eight questions that he could put to the speaker, and fill any uneasy gaps of silence. “If people have asked some of the questions on the list, I cut them out, and ask the rest.” Preparation has enabled Harshavardhan to play it by the ear, whenever required. Some speakers would want to recast the format in a structure they are more comfortable with. “Some speakers may want to have it interactive from the get-go. It was like that with Karun Chandhok and Shankar Mahadevan. Shankar Mahadevan’s session was on December 16, at 7 p.m. Around 5.45 p.m., he called me and during the conversation, he said, “Instead of speaking about myself, I should let you ask me questions that I would answer. In-between, I would sing a few songs. I could not say ‘no’ to him, though I had only around an hour to go. The questions that I had already prepared were helpful. As the session started, my wife was sitting next to me, and she kept writing some chits and sending them to me. That was one of the good shows,” laughs Wg Cdr Harshavardhan. Though, initially, the e-Connect Series was planned as a weekly feature, every Sunday, it has settled into a fortnightly fare — again, generally a Sunday event, but also planned ad hoc particularly when a speaker’s availability has to be factored in — so that the veteran officers can keep their screen time well under permissible limits.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/veteran-officers-become-icons-of-digital-transformation/article33706995.ece
31 January 2021||January 31 2021 00:00 IST,||Barking out a message against spitting||Spitting in public places is disgusting, but how many would protest when they see someone do that? Six furry friends — Nila, Johnny, Mouse, Scooby, Kip and Enzo — address this indifferent attitude through a video. Except for Scooby, a Dalmatian, these are all rescued street dogs. A Chennai-based team has created this video for the all-India campaign, StopIndiaSpitting. Beautiful Bharat, a group comprising individuals and organisations that work to have measures to prevent this habit, is leading the StopIndiaSpitting campaign. The video was conceptualised and visualised by Ashwin Sridhar and Shilpa Raghavan of Tales with Tails 269, a Chennai-based centre for animal-assisted interventions. Thejas Mohan has given the music and Dilip is the cinematographer. Set in a quiet neighbourhood, the story begins with Nila, a fitness enthusiast, going on a morning walk. Others seen in the street are Mouse that is head- bobbing to music, and Johnny, onion seller, setting up his space in the corner of the street. Enzo steps out of a car on the pretext of buying onions and throws his mask and spits on the street when Scooby registers her disapproval with a bark. Others join in with a woof, ruff, bow-wow and howl. Kip is presented as the activist who lends support to others. “What we loved about this latest addition to the campaign resources by our newest partner is that it makes a strong call to viewers to speak out against spitting in public places,” says Odette Katrak, co-founder, Beautiful Bharat. She says most people take a bystander’s stance when they encounter spitting in a public place. “That means habitual spitters view it as license and would continue with the practice of spitting. The collective impact of bystander silence rolls out to another manifestation of social apathy and that is what we need to break,” she says. StopIndiaSpitting has also been asking people to explain why spitting in the public is bad. “Spitting spreads Corona,” says Odette. The team behind this video say that executing this project was possible because of the rapport each of them have established through carefully structured training programmes. “None of the dogs were under duress during any point of the filming process. As most of the dogs are also our companion animals, it was easy to train them. Each dog was given a role based on their strength. For instance, Scooby and Johnny are the oldest in the team and the latter has worked as a therapy dog too,” says Shilpa, a psychologist and certified Animal-Assisted-Therapy Practitioner. She says the shooting was done in two places — Kottivakkam and West Mambalam. By using animals, the team wants to send across another message. “Rescued dogs, irrespective of how old they are, can also be trained. And, if dogs can be disciplined then we too can,” she says. The video ends with a takeaway. Enzo is embarrassed about what he did, and Kip is seen holding a ‘#Stop India Spitting’ placard. Watch the video at https://youtu.be/SjgMAp1wJ3A||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/barking-out-a-message-against-spitting/article33707002.ece
31 January 2021||January 31 2021 00:00 IST,||A well springs back to life||“Once you carry your own water, you will learn the value of every drop.” One of the many quotes on Public Well Revival Movement’s Facebook page. What makes it arresting is the image that meshes with it: Three men working hard to fix a pulley on a well at Aadiyur, Tamil Nadu. The photo is a reminder that each of us have to do whatever we should and can to preserve and recharge our water resources to the maximum extent possible. Inspired by the works of Swami Nigamananda  and Anupam Mishra, Public Well Revival Movement (PWRM) was started two years ago to revive public wells in the villages of Tamil Nadu. The Movement is led by a motley group of individuals drawn from Cuckoo Forest School and Chennai-based Akarmaa Foundation. The movement is currently focused on reviving defunct wells in and around Tiruvannamalai. “We started the drive by reviving an old well near the school and we have so far completed work on six wells in Tiruvannamalai,” says Kaushik Kumar, one of the founders of Akarmaa Foundation, a group with environment, education and heritage as its focus areas. They identify a well either with the help of the local people or on their own. The local authority is apprised about the project after which we clean the space around the well for accessibility, says Kaushik. Later, the well is de-watered and de-silted and the outer periphery of the well is spruced up with artwork where the children from the community are involved in designing motifs. It takes at least a month to revive a well. For example, before starting work on the well at Aadiyur village, the villagers were apprehensive. “It is usually children and youth who are drawn towards our work first. Slowly, the elders start sharing stories about the well and how it was used in the past and that is how we engage the community and try to create a sense of ownership about the well,” says Kaushik. On the request of an elderly woman, in addition to the revival of well, a small tank was installed next to the well in Aadiyur. To create awareness about reviving wells, PWRM has brought out a table calendar dedicated to Late Anupam Mishra, well-known environmentalist and water conservationist, who was a pioneer in the restoration of traditional water systems in Rajasthan. The calendar has images of the various wells revived by PWRM as well as of the stepwells of Hyderabad that is currently being revived. The calendar is designed as a detachable postcard on one side and month on other and can be gifted as a fundraiser for revival of public wells. Those who wish to be gifted/ gift the calendar can fill in the form below:https://bit.ly/2XS6jKr. Last year, a similar calendar initiative showcased the tanks of Karnataka. The group is also encouraging people to bring to their notice, wells that need attention.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-well-springs-back-to-life/article33706999.ece
31 January 2021||January 31 2021 00:00 IST,||Parked vehicles eat into Saligramam streets||Harikrishnan Street, Kushaldoss Street, Duraiarasan Street and Bharathiar Street at Kaveri Rangan Nagar in Saligramam have been taken over by parked vehicles, including those left abandoned. Over the last five years, their numbers have been on the increase. On some sections of these streets, vehicles are parked on both the sides, making it difficult for residents to take their vehicles out. During afternoon and late-evening hours, anti-social elements use these vehicles as cover while consuming alcohol. Liquor bottles can be seen under these vehicles and on the road margins. It is also said that banned substances are sold here. Before the outbreak of COVID-19 pandemic, when schools were functioning, many girl students had complained confidentially about eve-teasing and other unpleasant experiences. They said they found these roads unsafe and would therefore move around only in groups. Further, residents who reached the owners of these vehicles and asked them to have their vehicles removed, faced threats from the latter. Further, garbage is being dumped and conservancy workers are unable to carry out thorough sweeping due to these vehicles. A few residents have complained about this at the online grievance redressal platforms of various government departments. But these complaints were closed without solving these issues. S. Sundaresan and N.S. Ramachandran are president and secretary, respectively, of Kaveri Rangan Nagar Narpani Mandram, Saligramam||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/parked-vehicles-eat-into-saligramam-streets/article33706982.ece
31 January 2021||January 31 2021 00:00 IST,||Sewage drain stays open for more than a month||A damaged sewage drain near the intersection of Madley Road and South Usman Road in T. Nagar is posing a threat to the safety of passers-by, as it is lying open and has only been partially barricaded. The drain was damaged when Greater Chennai Corporation was carrying out footpath work, a project that comes under Smart Cities Mission, a Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs scheme. “The open drain emits a foul odour. Therefore, at least a temporary arrangement should be made to cover the drain” says S. Prema, a resident of West Mambalam. T. Nagar being a shopping hub, the intersection is extremely busy. Further, it witnesses frequent movement of Metropolitan Transport Corporation buses as a terminus-cum-depot is nearby. The MTC terminus receives good patronage because it provides services to Broadway, Tambaram, Thiruverukadu, Poonamallee, Ambattur, Adyar, Perambur and Triplicane. In addition to residents from T. Nagar, those living in nearby localities such as CIT Colony, Kodambakkam, Saidapet, Nandanam and Teynampet also rely on this terminus. Such an important terminus is not well-lit. Hence, many can be seen waiting near the intersection. The drain needs to be attended to immediately. A Corporation official says, “Steps will be taken to cover the drain at the earliest.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/sewage-drain-stays-open-for-more-than-a-month/article33706989.ece
31 January 2021||January 31 2021 00:00 IST,||Veteran officers switch to eBooks||It was a 20-page printed newsletter, which suddenly became a leaden commitment to carry. In the light of an easier alternative, it was also a needless burden to bear. From formatting to printing and distribution, the processes had soaked up significant time and resources, but remained unquestioned, till the pandemic came along with its compelling demands which in turn led to better use of available technologies. “The pioneers of AFVOA Chennai had been taking the trouble to prepare 20-page newsletters in Word format, print and send the 250 copies by post,” says Wing Commander C. Ravishankar, who is editor for the Association's newsletter. “We have simplified the process by releasing the newsletter in the eBook format. We started the practice in May, the first eBook (called Lockdown Issue; 101 pages) being released on May 3. The response led us to make it a regular feature; and the second issue of the eBook arrived on August 15 as Independence Day Issue (237 pages). The Third one was the Vijay Diwas issue on December 16 (167 pages),” points out Wg Cdr Ravishankar (65), who had served in the Air Force as an IT professional, and subsequently, in his second career now, he is an IT consultant. This career move imparted to him the skill sets that prove invaluable to AFVOA Chennai in its digital transformation journey. “AFVOA Chennai is an inter-services veterans association consisting of members from all three wings of the armed forces. From October 2019 onwards, Air Force veterans took charge of the Association. One of the requests that had come from all the pioneering members of AFVOA Chennai was the resumption of the newsletter. From 2014, the practice of publishing the newsletter had been discontinued for whatever reasons. Prior to that, a handful of the pioneering members had taken tremendous interest in publishing it,” Wg Cdr Ravishankar lays out the backdrop against which the switch to new-media publishing happened. In a casual discussion, just before the pandemic, Air Marshal Simhakutty Varthaman and Wing Commander S. Harshavardhan, president and secretary of AFVOA Chennai respectively, wanted to know the modalities of resuming the publication of the newsletter, says Wg Cdr Ravishankar. The plan was to convert the articles in word format into PDF format, and have them mailed to the members; and for those veterans who were not tech-savvy, a printed version of the PDFs would be sent. “However, using an eBook software, I had converted the PDFs into an eBook. As our president as well as the managing committee had given me a free hand, I did that. When I showed it to them (the president and the secretary), they were absolutely taken up with the idea. They said, ‘Why not do this?’ There has been no turning back from there. I can add that the pandemic fast-tracked the process.” The next eBook is scheduled for April 14, Tamil New Year’s Day. Wg Cdr Ravishankar underscores two sections in these eBooks: “Many members in the group are war veterans who have taken part in the wars of India. So, their accounts of first-hand experiences on the war front, go into the section called ‘War Diary’. Then, topics of general interest go under the category “memoirs”. All of us are from Chennai, but we also accept contributions from non-members who are from elsewhere, but that constitutes a small percentage of the articles.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/veteran-officers-switch-to-ebooks/article33706996.ece
31 January 2021||January 31 2021 00:00 IST,||Kaliamman Koil Street unsafe for pedestrians?||Delay in the construction of median on select sections of the 4.5 km-long Kaliamman Koil Street means that these sections continue to be accident-prone. According to Greater Chennai Corporation officials, the delay is the result of insufficient space for the construction of median. The road was widened for a distance of 500 metres, in October 2018, especially near the Koyambedu Wholesale Market, and the exercise was possible because of the availability of open space on both sides. The civic body is unable to acquire adequate land on the rest of the stretch. "After lockdown restrictions were eased, the vehicular volume had increased, and it was necessary to have safety measures in place to ensure road users’ safety,” says S. Prasanna, a motorist from Virugambakkam. At present, the widened section — between the Chennai Metrowater’s Sewage Treatment Plant in Koyambedu (opposite the Koyambedu Wholesale Market) and the Chinmiyanagar junction — has concrete median with LED street lights and pedestrian crossings. The completed portion of the stretch has been expanded from the existing 30-ft-road to a 60-ft-stretch. As road runs through heavily populated localities including Koyambedu, Chinmaya Nagar, Dasarathapuram, Virugambakkam and Saligramam, it remains a key link for residents in these areas to other parts of Chennai. As per plans, once widened, the road will have a broad concrete footpaths with stormwater drains, LED street lights, median and traffic signals and speed breakers at key intersections. “Steps will be taken to provide safety features on the narrow spots along the stretch soon,” says a Corporation official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/kaliamman-koil-street-unsafe-for-pedestrians/article33706987.ece
31 January 2021||January 31 2021 00:00 IST,||A green playlist||Oh Re Taal Mile Nadii Ke Jal Mein   Nadi Mile Saagar Mein   Saagar Mile Kaun Se Jal Mein   Koi Jaane Naa  Lines of a song from the film Anokhi Raat that tugged at architect Mirra Kannan’s heartstrings. “These lines (a rough translation being: Waters from the lake meet the river/ While the waters from the river meet the sea/ But who does the sea meet eventually/ Nobody can say) really spoke to me about how it is possible to relate to water and its journey on earth, through our own experiences,” says Mirra, a graduate of MESAI Academy of Architecture, who has initiated an online project ‘Ears of the Earth’ that documents songs relating to natural resources. The open-source collaborative platform invites people to share songs about natural resources that impacted them the way the afore-mentioned song left an indelible impression on her. These songs would go into a playlist. She is unearthing folk songs on water and other natural resources, and trying to connect with the people to whom they are attributed. Stating that there are a raft of songs that capture the joy of engaging with the natural environment, Mirra recalls one where a person inviting another for a walk in the forest: ‘ Kaatuku poren naane, neeyum ennoda variya? Marangalil irikkum pazhangalai parithu, neeyum enakku thariya ?’ (I'm going to the forest, would you like to come with me? Will you share with me the fruits that are plucked from the trees?) Mirra, a member of Akarmaa Foundation, is a trained musician, plans to put these collections together, find meaningful translations and share it as an audio or video clip so that people develop a better understanding of nature. “Music surpasses other forms of communication, and through melodies, one is imbued with a different form of hope. As much as you are singing for nature you are singing for yourself. And this would be an interesting way to explore our relationship with nature,” she says. Those keen on knowing more about the initiative can check the Instagram page earsoftheearth. Or write toearsoftheearth@ gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-green-playlist/article33707000.ece
31 January 2021||January 31 2021 00:00 IST,||Subway plagued by clogged drains||Water flows onto the road at Aranganathan subway in West Mambalam, where the traffic flow is towards T. Nagar. Due to this situation, motorists are at risk for accidents. Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) officials say the clogged rainwater storage pits along the subway are causing the water flow. Severely damaged in the 2015 floods, the subway was renovated in September 2016 along with a few other subways, including Veeran Sivalingam subway, Madley subway, RBI subway and Gengu Reddy subway. As part of the renovation, the carriageway was relaid; rainwater storage pits were desilted and new LED street lights installed. The renovation was carried out at a cost of Rs. 15 lakh by GCC. “At night, we cannot see the water on the subway. Excess water from the drain keeps overflowing onto the road continually,” says S. Kumar, a resident of Saidapet. Every day, motorists from K.K. Nagar, Ashok Nagar, Ekkatuthangal, Nesapakkam, West Mambalam, T. Nagar, and Vadapalani use Govindan Road and via Aranganathan subway and CIT Colony (Saidapet), each Anna Salai. This route enables motorists to skip congested traffic points including Duraisamy subway, T. Nagar bus terminus junction and Arcot Road to reach Anna Salai. However, motorists underline how unsafe it is to access the approach road — Reddy Kuppam Road which links the subway with West Mambalam. With a Tasmac liquor outlet on Reddy Kuppam Road, the stretch near the subway is crowded most of the time blocking easy traffic movement including that of MTC buses.Further, the intersection of Reddy Kuppam Road and the ramp of the subway is dug up frequently for cable repair work whicha has resulted in an uneven road. In this regard, a GCC official says, “Steps will be taken to unclog the drain.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/subway-plagued-by-clogged-drains/article33707003.ece
31 January 2021||January 31 2021 00:00 IST,||Indian Grey Hornbill shows up at Adyar Estuary||Apatch at Adyar Estuary demonstrates the Patagonia Picnic Basket Effect. With one goggle-eyed record after another, birders flock to it expecting megaticks. Obviously, this expectation ends up more often in disappointments. However, the rarities do come along just in time to refresh the patch’s reputation for big-ticket sightings. So, well-hoofed, the patch has an impressively long check-list to offer. The patch added one more rare, grey feather to its heavily decorated cap on January 23. This patch runs alongside the Theosophical Society compound wall, and the closest landmark is the broken bridge. On January 23, Lakshmi Arunachalam and her husband Prabhu Mathiyalagan turned around, having brought an early-morning birding session to a close. A bird coming out of nowhere had no idea they were done birding for the day. It was an Indian Grey Hornbill announcing its presence to them, with excited squeals. Lakshmi’s eBird record has a note: “We first heard its call. Then we spotted it and it was hopping on tree top branches all the while calling.” Prabhu recalls how its calls first led him to believe he was in the presence of a raptor. The bird was found on the other side of the wall, inside the Theosophical Society. From what is known about this species, its appearance in an urban setting is nothing to wire home about. It is known for its adaptability to urban environments. That day, it showed up in an arboreal space, which again is its natural environment. eBird reviewer Vikas Madhav Nagarajan points out that what makes the sighting truly remarkable is not so much the sighting itself as what preceded it: Years, in fact decades of silence. “An Indian Grey Hornbill sighting closest to Chennai is at Javadhi Hills, where I had seen a pair of them,” says Vikas. He underlines that the Indian Grey Hornbill is not migratory in these parts, and technically a resident. As it had not disturbed the record books, the news of its sighting was received just as that of a rare visitor would be. The only reasonable response to this sighting is that the patch has to be monitored, with eyes peeled back. The Indian Grey Hornbill is usually found as a pair, even in a small group, and rarely all by itself. Says Vikas, “There is only one time that I have seen the Indian Grey Hornbill alone, but even then the bird was in a mixed flock.” Let us get back to the patch and its almost talismanic power to host rare sightings, of which there are many. However, one that remains etched, in part because it is more recent than most others, is the sighting of the the Daurian Starling on October 6, 2018 by Aravind AM. The next day, Vivek Puliyeri would head to the patch, and be greeted with the sight of the same bird. On September 16, 2016, Vivek had sighted an Orange-breasted Green Pigeon at this patch. On November 2, 2016, ecologist and bird researcher P. Hopeland would see one, most likely the same bird. eBird lists only one observation of a Jungle Babbler with photographic evidence within Chennai, and where does this sighting come from? At this very patch, on October 6, 2017, a Jungle Babbler crossed Vivek’s path. There are only three records of the European Roller, with photographic evidence, and they are by Rama Neelamegam (October 13, 2018) and Vikas and Sidharth Srinivasan (both on Octover 17, 2018) and they come from around this patch in Adyar Estuary. In a classic case of Patagonia Picnic Basket Effect, sightings of the Black-Capped Kingfisher at the patch generated considerable interest among birders in 2017 and 2018. “There are three places that one is mostly likely to sight the Black-capped Kingfisher: the Adyar Estuary, Pulicat and Kelambakkam. At this patch, birder Arvind Amritraj has seen three Black-capped Kingfishers on the other side of the wall, inside TS, on an occasion when he had got permission to go birding inside the campus,” says Rama. The Black-capped Kingfisher is at home in coastal and estuarine habitats, especially when marked by mangroves. Rama continues: “There was one spot near the patch where a Black-capped Kingfisher would be sitting, drawing a lot of attention from birders. It was out in the open, sitting exactly opposite SSTCN’s hut-like enclosure created to keep Olive Ridley eggs, and this had become a landmark of sorts. Many birders would head to the patch for a glimpse of this bird, though there is no telling if it was always the same bird that would sit perched there, day after day. This was in 2017-2018. But both in 2019 and 2020, there have been no records of sightings of the Black-capped Kingfisher in these known haunts.” The lone Black-capped Kingfisher at this patch became something of a local legend, points out Arvind AM, and adds: “During one trip to the estuary, I saw a few waders and when I was coming back disappointed, I saw this Black-capped Kingfisher.” That made his day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/indian-grey-hornbill-shows-up-at-adyar-estuary/article33706970.ece
31 January 2021||January 31 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Samayapuram Main Road needs bitumen topping’||Connecting Chennai Bypass and Poonamallee Main Road, Samayapuram Main Road in Porur witnesses considerable traffic. Along this road, garbage pile-ups are a common sight. It is two years since the Tamil Nadu government banned single-use plastic, but single-use plastic covers are found in these pile-ups. Cows feed on these plastics. The garbage bins are mostly kept upside down. Or else, garbage can be seen overflowing from these bins. Further, the road is battered. In October 2020, Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply & Sewerage Board (CMWSSB) dug up the bitumen road to lay underground sewage pipes. Though the work seems to have been completed, the road is yet to be relaid. The road turns slushy when it rains. I request the authorities concerned to do the needful at the earliest. Fathima K N is a resident of Porur||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/samayapuram-main-road-needs-bitumen-topping/article33706978.ece
31 January 2021||January 31 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Railways should provide trolley service’||Recently, at Chennai Central Railway Station to take a train to Renigunta in Andhra Pradesh, I saw passengers either carrying heavy luggage on their shoulders or having it carried by a porter. Railways should provide trolleys, as in the airport, for passengers to avail them for free to carry the luggage. A. Jainulabdeen, Ashok Nagar||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/railways-should-provide-trolley-service/article33706975.ece
31 January 2021||January 31 2021 00:00 IST,||Music event on February 2||Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan, Chennai, is organising its 174th Sadguru Sri Thigaraja Swamigal Aradhana on February 2 at its main auditorium in East Mada Street, Mylapore. Time: At 9.30 a.m. According to a press release, Pancharatna Kritis will be rendered by various artists led by Toppil B. Sairam. At 11 a.m., a film on Saint Thiagarja titled “Endharo Mahanubhavalu” by Bombay Gnanam will be screened. At 12.30 p.m., prasadham will be distributed, adds press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/music-event-on-february-2/article33706971.ece
31 January 2021||January 31 2021 00:00 IST,||Life before the pandemic||Before the pandemic, AFVOA Chennai members would have a bi-monthly meeting, which seemed to do much for them — in getting elucidated on systems around them and to make quick and strides in self-improvement and health consciousness. And of course, these are also occasions for them to unwind. Organised at Palm Grove Officers Institute in Park Town, AFVOA Chennai would usually have a subject matter expert talking to them. Three houses of Tambola, followed by lunch, are part of the other activities. AFVOA Chennai seems to have periodically organised visits to places, institutions and services to better understand them. An effort to understand the processes at work in the Metro Rail system is a ready example.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/life-before-the-pandemic/article33706997.ece
31 January 2021||January 31 2021 00:00 IST,||AGM conducted online||Wing Commander S Harshavardhan, Secretary, AFVOA Chennai, underlines that the Association had its annual general body meeting conducted on an online platform. “Initially, Registrar of Societies - Tamil Nadu did not permit such AGM meetings. Later, they allowed it, on the condition that sufficient proof is presented. We conducted the meeting, and in fact our Treasurer Gp Capt K Balasubramaniam went to submit the annual returns recently, with the Registrar of Societies, when he was told, ‘Normally, when you have an in-person meeting, along with the documents, you would present an attendance sheet that would have been signed by the people who had attended the meeting. Here, you have only given us a list: What is the proof that you have conducted the meeting? The recording was with me, and I had to burn a CD and give it to him. So, AGMs conducted online with sufficient proof are legally valid.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/agm-conducted-online/article33706998.ece
31 January 2021||January 31 2021 00:00 IST,||Workshop on making chocolates||A workshop on making chocolates and baking cakes will be held on February 3 and 4 at No: 20, Cresent Park Street, T. Nagar. Time: From 2 p.m. to 5 p.m. A release says the focus will be on 12 varieties of chocolates and three varieties of cakes. For details, call 99402 69288.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/workshop-on-making-chocolates/article33706973.ece
31 January 2021||January 31 2021 00:00 IST,||You can be our volunteer-writer||Dear readers, you can be our volunteer-writer by writing to us about issues and events in your neighbourhood. You should send the write-ups to downtownfeedback@ thehindu.co.in. Letters must carry the postal address and contact number. Here’s a short note on the basic building blocks of any short news feature. a) The lead is the first section of an article, and leads that narrate a human situation work the best. b) The next element is the cosmic paragraph, in which you give the overall picture. c) News features have to be factually-grounded and the central portion, which will consist of a few paragraphs, should support the anecdotal paragraph and the cosmic paragraph||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/you-can-be-our-volunteer-writer/article33706979.ece
31 January 2021||January 31 2021 00:00 IST,||Military veterans make the most of technology||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/military-veterans-make-the-most-of-technology/article33706991.ece
31 January 2021||January 31 2021 00:00 IST,||A well springs back to life||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-well-springs-back-to-life/article33706992.ece
31 January 2021||January 31 2021 00:00 IST,||Barking out a message against spitting||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/barking-out-a-message-against-spitting/article33706994.ece
31 January 2021||January 31 2021 00:00 IST,||Republic day celebrationS||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/republic-day-celebrations/article33706985.ece
31 January 2021||January 31 2021 00:00 IST,||Chewing on secrets||I don’t care much for recipes. Anyone can look up, buy, steal, tweak, or inveigle themselves into recipes. What I do like are secrets. The sort of secret recipes I like best are revelations in waiting, like a child in a game of hide and seek, waiting to be discovered even though she is also afraid of being sought out. My secrets are like the halwa my middle mumaani took to one of her kitty lunches in Lucknow last year, sending a frisson of excitement through her friend circle. Unfamiliar with the hosts and with kitty parties in general, I was silent and watchful of the eyes skimming over each edible item on the table, the scales rising and falling with each mouthful. Someone offered easy praise for a dish that was rare in her own kitchen. Someone offered a reluctant ‘Hmm’ upon tasting a dish that was only too familiar, and yet no fault could be found with it. Sultana maami’s halwa was good, but the excitement was more about its texture than its flavour. It looked like chane ka halwa but wasn’t as smooth. It was like milk cake, but it wasn’t that either. It was a distant cousin to the habshi halwa, but not a sibling. The ladies kept guessing and my aunt enjoyed teasing them. Smiling, shaking her head, she pressed into their hands the folded paans she had brought along as a post-lunch treat. My aunt left the party without telling anyone. The excitement was infectious, and I too demanded an answer. Sultana maami kept me guessing for a few more hours, and I kept cajoling, even though we both knew my skills don’t lie in the kitchen. She told me anyway, releasing the information as if she were handing over an item from her wedding trousseau to a favoured niece, along with the admonishment that I was not to pass it on to anyone else. I haven’t tried making that halwa myself and, to be honest, I’ve forgotten what it tasted like. I know, however, that whenever I do make it, it will taste of my aunt’s smile and her momentary enjoyment of her little secret. The scent of paan will always linger over it even if there isn’t a paan around for a hundred miles. Signature styles Grandma’s chhole, Grandma’s kheer, Grandma’s chane ka halwa, Grandma’s pindi. It is said that a dish changes with the hand that cooks it. My grandmother fed her children and grandchildren these dishes for so many years that we all know the difference between ‘her’ chhole and other people’s chhole. Hers was not necessarily the tastiest version of chhole we’ve ever had, but it was her own thing: neither spicy nor bland; neither wet nor dry; neither garnished nor plain; neither a whole meal nor a snack to be taken lightly. Grandma wasn’t a foodie. Towards the end of her life, she had taken to fasting for three months instead of the single month of Ramzan. Even when she didn’t fast, she ate sparingly. What she did enjoy was cooking to show her love. Once she realized that a particular child liked a particular dish, she spent hours slaving in the kitchen and prepared mounds of it. Little mountains of halwa, small lakes of kheer, jarfuls of laddoo. When she saw how much her grandkids liked it, she even taught herself to make ice cream. For weeks, she’d skim the cream off the daily pot of milk, hoarding it in the freezer and eventually cooking it up with mango pulp. Even now, there are summers when I am filled with an insane craving for Grandma’s ice cream — grainy and heavy and shot through with tiny icicles that lend a crunch to the sweet melt. After she died, for a few years there was no chane ka halwa, no homemade ice cream, no pindi. Or if there was, we didn’t know it because it wasn’t being shared with the whole family. Then, one year, a cousin was getting married, and Sultana maami showed up with a dark brown gob in transparent plastic. Grandma’s halwa, she said. I remember that moment: the ziplock bag on a table already laden with boxes of sweets, the halwa waiting to be warmed up and shared. It tasted of our struggle to stay bound as a family after the elders were gone. The family has managed to stay bound even though its members are now scattered across the world. We try and meet at weddings. When we cannot meet, we stay in touch through the family WhatsApp group. On Eid this year, one of my cousins sent a message that instead of the traditional siwain, she had made Grandma’s kheer. Meanwhile, I was annoyed that my siwain turned out neither like my mother’s nor like Grandma’s. I was secretly proud, though, that I had learnt to make a vegetable kebab that Grandma used to make. What I hold in the deeper recesses of my heart are the meals and snacks Grandma made strictly for the family. Dishes reminiscent of genteel poverty. Simple, three- or four-ingredient dishes, high on carbs and sugar or salt. Dishes bad for the heart. Dishes doubly dear to my heart for, at least some of the time, her effort and her love was mine alone. One of these is a sweet called maleeda. Maleeda comes from an era before refrigeration, when leftover chapatis were turned into new dishes. I have a vivid memory of sitting on an old carpet beside Grandma as she tore up and crushed bits of chapati between forefinger and thumb. After she died, I didn’t eat this dish for nearly 14 years. The one exception was 40 days after her death, when the grieving family had gathered for her chalisvaan. Trying to hold onto some tangible piece of her, I expressed a desire to eat maleeda. One of my aunts made some, but it wasn’t quite Grandma’s maleeda. Recently, looking for a simple dessert I could whip up without any special ingredients, I remembered maleeda and looked it up online. I was initially amused, then mildly alarmed to see that it had transmogrified from a three-step, three-ingredient leftover dish into a complex recipe. As for the addition of saffron and dry fruits, all I can say is: there’s no end to human folly. Extracted fromDesi Delicacies: Food Writing from Muslim South Asia, edited by Claire Chambers; Picador India, 2020.    Even now, there are summers when I am filled with an insane craving for Grandma’s ice cream — grainy and heavy and shot through with tiny icicles that lend a crunch to the sweet melt||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/chewing-on-secrets/article33707004.ece
31 January 2021||January 31 2021 00:00 IST,||The making of an ethic of care||With Dr. V. Shanta’s passing, it is yuganta at the Cancer Institute, Adyar. End of an epoch. The Institute has a special place in the history of oncology in India. Its approach combining technological excellence with outreach to the poor owes much to Shanta’s work. Joining as a voluntary doctor in 1954, she never left, living till the end in an austere flat on the upper floor of the Institute. Once, when I asked about her personal life and hobbies, she smiled and drew a zero several times in the air.   I knew Shanta first as a patient. Then, in 2010, I archived the Cancer Institute for the Avabai Wadia Archives for Women at SNDT Women’s University, Mumbai. I got to know her closely. Her journey and the making of her medical persona intrigued me. In her conversations, she reflected on events and her choices in personal life: childhood, schooling, college, the Institute; on being a woman doctor; on science, faith and music. I wrote a piece on her life and approach to treatment and care. A few edited excerpts are presented here. *** Dr. Shanta’s journey is intertwined with two other individuals: Dr. Muthulakshmi Reddy, who established the Institute amidst formidable obstacles, and her son Dr. S. Krishnamurthi, who joined reluctantly on his mother’s wish, but stayed on to steer it into a powerful model of scientific progress. Muthulakshmi was a social reformer, a quintessential activist on women’s issues. The Institute was registered as part of the Women’s Indian Association, which Muthulakshmi helmed: a legacy of the early Indian women’s movement. But the Institute was not an exclusively women’s effort; Krishnamurthi’s role in giving thrust and direction to Muthulakshmi’s vision were crucial. Shanta worked closely with him: ‘The first time I met Dr. Krishnamurthi... there was no doubt that it had a significant impact on me… his wide knowledge, his approach to cancer, his attitude towards corruption, towards discipline. Much of what I have learnt in the early years came from him… you cannot divide him from me and me from him... we did everything together ’ . Home and family Shanta came from a highly accomplished family. Her personal biography reflects the intermingled histories of reform and freedom, nation building and institution building, science and progress, excellence, and outreach: concerns which were imprinted in the successes and failures of the newly independent India. Her grandfather C.S. Iyer was a senior officer in the British Railway Service. A keen student of literature and Carnatic music, he had published critically acclaimed books on the violin. His father R. Chandrasekhar was an eminent educationist, whose younger son was C.V. Raman. Iyer’s wife Seethalakshmi had ten children and died young of tuberculosis. Shanta’s mother Bala was the second oldest sibling, and already married when Seethalakshmi died. Bala and her husband stayed back with Iyer to take care of the children. Iyer had, in the early 1930s, built ‘Chandra Vilas,’  a complex of three adjacent houses  in Mylapore, where he lived with his children and grandchildren. He had a huge personal library, with thousands of books in cupboards opening both back and front, lined on the entire ground floor. The family’s cooking was done in the middle house, recollects Malathi Ramanathan, Iyer’s granddaughter. Bala spent her life nurturing her six younger siblings and her own six children. Said Shanta: ‘She was tremendous, a personification of patience… No, not sacrifice exactly – she did not think she was doing anything special.’ Bala’s education stopped with marriage. Shanta remembers her saying often, ‘at least you children should study’. Bala’s mother Seethalakshmi, although not formally educated, had translated Ibsen’s Doll’s House into Tamil. But her husband was conventional. His son S. Chandrasekhar , the astro-physicist, remembers his father getting his sons private tuitions at home while the daughters went to regular school. In later years, he became keen on education for women but not careers. He insisted on music lessons: one daughter earmarked for violin, the next for veena, the third for violin and so on! Shanta too had singing lessons. It was an overwhelming family to grow up in: the weight of two Nobel laureates and the authority of the grandfather. After her school finals at age 13, Shanta stayed home for a year. As her grandfather dictated the text of his book The Grammar of Carnatic Music , she took it down in long hand. ‘Both from my grandfather and from Sir CV, I learnt that you have to do something other than routine, humdrum things to make a difference.’ It was an enlightened family, not orthodox, yet holding on fiercely to its cultural legacies. Shanta seems to have absorbed its values of caregiving and the pursuit of excellence. By age 11 or 12, Shanta had made up her mind to be a doctor. She was inspired by her mother’s life of caregiving. But there was a difference: ‘I wanted to be independent, my mother had to spend too much time taking care and had nothing to fall back upon.’ As a schoolgirl, Shanta was also inspired by Chandrasekhar’s wife’s sister Dr. Shantasundari, who was in medical college and associated with Lady Dufferin’s medical corps for women. ‘I was quite taken with her beautiful uniform, her bearing and conduct. She was not married. It is from her that I imbibed a need for being independent, not wanting to be sitting at home at somebody’s beck and call.’ Everyone in the family knew about her desire to become a doctor. While at school, her aunt Vidya gave her a card in jest, with Dr. Shanta MBBS printed on it. When she joined medical college, there was great excitement. She was pampered. They were all a bit in awe and left her alone. Her younger sister got married. No one suggested that Shanta should too. ‘It was not that I felt that because I was a doctor, I should not marry. The circumstances were not right for me, that’s all. But one thing I can say now. If you are a dedicated doctor, marriage is a hindrance. You cannot give everything to one, if you have another. There is no doubt that now women want to be independent, they want to work. But in their marriages, I see that some women doctors buckle down… give  up the job because the husband asks her to resign. Shatters your very idea of womanhood.’ Treatment vs care Despite being an all-rounder at the Institute, Shanta’s personal concerns were about patient care. She developed protocols beyond treatment to holistic care. Asked what she enjoyed most in medical college, she said: ‘Patient care… I wanted to be with patients. Professors don’t talk to their students much about patient care… about morality and ethics.” Krishnamurthi remembered: ‘There was this patient, Dr. Pai from Ooty. He was 22 or 23 and had cancer. I remember when he was seriously ill, he would say ‘mother, mother, hold my hand, I am afraid of darkness’. She sat with him that whole night holding his hand and in the morning he passed away.’ For Shanta, the physician’s role went beyond treatment. ‘The physician has to be not just a doctor and give treatment but also care and become part of the family… In the end, when they are dying, people don’t want anything… they only want someone there to take care of them.’ Shanta made her way in the male world of oncology through her competence and dedication, becoming something of an ‘honorary male’. In the larger canvas of the Institute’s struggles, gender is not her priority. The feminine care ethic is based on care as a woman’s duty with an emotional overlay, obscuring the labour that goes into it. The onus to rebel against such ascriptive roles is placed by Shanta on women themselves, rather than on structural change. But one shouldn’t forget that Shanta’s grandmother translated A Doll’s House. It  must have reverberated among the women in the family. Superimposed on this was the ‘scientificity’ she acquired from her training. As a woman and a doctor, Shanta’s was a complex and shifting position with male, feminine and feminist sensibilities interleaving.    Extracted from ‘Healing Touch: Dr. V. Shanta’s Journeys in Cancer Treatment and Care’ inFeminists and Science: Critiques and Changing Perspectives in India; edited by Sumi Krishna and Gita Chadha; Sage/ Stree Kolkata, 2017.  Joining as a voluntary doctor in 1954, she never left, living till her death in an austere flat on the upper floor of the Institute. Once, when I asked about her personal life and hobbies, she smiled and drew a zero several times in the air||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-making-of-an-ethic-of-care/article33707006.ece
31 January 2021||January 31 2021 00:00 IST,||Post-euphoria, we ask ourselves||You can read the poem Amanda Gorman recited at President Joe Biden’s inauguration ceremony — celebrated by even snooty publications like The New Yorker — simply as a speech. It cannot be faulted there. It is full of the right sentiments and hopes, coming at the end of the long night of Donald Trump’s misrule. It does not come close to the great speeches of history — by Frederick Douglass, Sojourner Truth or Martin Luther King — but we do not live in an age that sets exacting standards in oratory. If we had, Trump would never have existed. But Gorman’s text was also presented and read, and acclaimed, as a poem. That is where the trouble starts. Is there a major difference between people who acclaim a political leader despite his bad policies because they agree with his (good or bad) views, and people who acclaim a weak poem because they agree with the poet’s (good) views? This controversy erupted on Twitter, and it ended with the unasked question: If we lower the standards of policy or poetry for a person, adducing age, sex, colour or correct opinion as an excuse, then are we doing any favour to the person or the cause? Standard clichés The question assumes significance due to various attempts to ‘defend’ Gorman’s poem by bringing up the different traditions of Black poetry. If Gorman’s poem is an expression of this tradition at its best, then it’s a good defence. If not, then, to my mind, it does gross injustice to both Gorman as a person, and to Black poetry. The white women who posted on Twitter about Gorman’s elegance and poise seem to me to be indulging in a kind of well-meaning racism: it is a version of the racism that makes coloured people take care to appear well-dressed, refined, suave. That is not what is required of a poem. Does Gorman’s poem match up to the high standards of the best Anglophone poetry by Black poets? You need not compare her efforts to works like Derek Walcott’s Omeros , for that might be considered too literary an example. Let us compare it to shorter poems that, to my mind, are among the great poems of the English language today. Note, I say the English language, not Black poetry. This is how Gorman’s poem starts: “When day comes we ask ourselves,/ where can we find light in this never-ending shade?/ The loss we carry,/ a sea we must wade/ We’ve braved the belly of the beast/ We’ve learned that quiet isn’t always peace.” It is a decent start — for a student’s poem. It is full of standard clichés, none of them redeemed by any twist of phrase or idea. One does not want to be a grammarian and point out that ‘shade’ is not just a cliché, but an inappropriate one, for it can convey repose and rest in sunny climates, such as the American South, and not necessarily ‘night.’ Such problems crop up throughout the poem — as they do in any poem by a talented student. An accomplished poet learns to go beyond them. It is not that clichés cannot be used; it’s how you use them. Powerful cry This, for instance, is how John Agard’s great short poem ‘Listen Mr Oxford Don’ starts: “Me not no Oxford don/ me a simple immigrant/ from Clapham Common/ I didn’t graduate/ I immigrate// But listen Mr Oxford don/ I’m a man on de run/ and a man on de run/ is a dangerous one.” Agard is not shying away from clichés. He even uses the very dangerous social stereotype, common in the U.K. in the 80s when the poem was written, of the Caribbean/ Black man being a ‘mugger’. But as the poem develops, he stands all the clichés on their heads, uttering a powerful cry for the Black voice and ending with these deceptively simple lines: “So mek dem send one big word after me/ I ent serving no jail sentence/ I slashing suffix in self-defence/ I bashing future wit present tense/ and if necessary// I making de Queen’s English accessory to my offence.” Here, the police car is the ‘big word’ of dictionary English, and then there follows a very sly and clever description of what Black English often does, while still using the ‘mugging’ images, and the poem ends with a statement that is both history and manifesto. The “Queen’s English” is “accessory to my offence” because that is what happens in English, and has always happened: it is a language made up of other languages, ranging all the way back to the initial creolisation of Latin, French, Germanic, Celtic and others. Or let us look at how Louise Bennett uses the clichés of ‘colonisation’ in her excellent ‘Colonisation in Reverse’. Spoken by a woman addressing a ‘Miss Mattie’ in Jamaica, it plays in a tongue-in-cheek manner with white European blather about ‘reverse colonisation’ while also pointing out the role history has played in this. For instance, the ‘motherland’, which in colonial terms was always England: “Dem a pour out a Jamaica/ Everybody future plan/ Is fe get a big-time job/ An settle in de mother lan.” Damn deep If the use of words and ideas in Gorman’s poem does not come close to such registers in the best of poetry by Black poets, does the rhythm compensate? To an extent it does, at least in Gorman’s rendition, for she is obviously a good public speaker. But when you look at it on the page, and speak it out aloud, or even compare it to the great extracts of Black poetry, then you are left disappointed. Let us look at the final lines: “The new dawn blooms as we free it/ For there is always light,/ if only we’re brave enough to see it/ If only we’re brave enough to be it.” And let us then pose next to it such lines from Linton Kwesi Johnson’s great poem, ‘If I Woz a Tap Natch Poet’ (You can see Johnson performing it on YouTube.): “I would write a poem/ So damn deep/ That it bitter-sweet/ Like a precious/ Memory/ Will make you weep/ Will make you feel incomplete// Like when your lover leaves/ And though defeat you concede/ Still you beg and you plead/ Till you win a reprieve/ And you’re ready for rock steady/ But the music is done already// Still/ In the meantime/ With my rhythm/ With my rhyme/ With my rough base line/ With my own sense of time…” I am sorry, but Gorman does not come up to these levels. Even if Frederick Douglass had written his great Fourth of July speech as a poem, we would have had to apply these ‘poetry’ standards to him. We are not doing Gorman a favour by extolling her poem much as we might agree with her hopes. Above all, we are not doing Black poetry a favour by setting the bar so low. It is this kind of blithe patronage of hope and difference that Biden’s America has to avoid if it is to prevent a relapse into Trumpid. The writer is an Indian novelist and academic who teaches in Denmark.  If we lower standards of policy or poetry for a person, adducing age, sex, colour or correct opinion as an excuse, then are we doing any favour to the person or the cause?||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/post-euphoria-we-ask-ourselves/article33707020.ece
31 January 2021||January 31 2021 00:00 IST,||Cowaxin, anyone?||India’s COVID-19 vaccination drive is not going great. Vaccine hesitancy is widespread, which means it’s going to take that much longer for Indians to build herd immunity to the same level as their herd mentality. So, why are Indians hesitating so much over corona vaccine? What are they thinking? Well, in a development that is certain to intrigue most strains of the coronavirus, an all-India survey conducted by the Pune-based National Adangapidari Institute of Virile Epidemiology (NAIVE) has revealed that 56.5% of Indians actually believe doing kapalbhati for 13 minutes a day can provide much more immunity against COVID-19 than any known vaccine. And that’s only the tip of the iceberg. The survey discovered many more things that mainstream media will never show you. For instance, the survey also found that only 43.7% of Indians still believed clapping and banging utensils can overpower the virus. This is astonishing given that a whopping 92% believed in this remedy at the start of the pandemic. This drastic erosion of faith has been attributed to the new strain of the coronavirus. Indeed, research conducted by the Ghatkopar-based AYUSH Mankhurrana Centre for Alternative Medicine (AMCAM) has found that the Johnson strain of the coronavirus (named in honour of the U.K. prime minister) has mutations that make it completely deaf, thereby rendering it immune to high-decibel measures such as clapping, utensil-banging, and protesting at Singhu border. Go, corona, go One speciality of the latest NAIVE survey is that for the first time it makes available segment-wise break-up of data. It found, for instance, that 76% of Congress voters, and 95% of those in love with Rahul Gandhi, were convinced that tweeting vigorously against the coronavirus will make it go away on its own. As for supporters of the ruling party, 97% of them believed that the best vaccine was the one based on m-RNA technology. For those who don’t know, the m-RNA vaccine works like this: it first converts the RNA of the coronavirus into a religious structure, then demolishes it, and then builds a new religious structure using m-RNA (the RNA of the majority). By making the coronavirus harmless only to the majority (who comprise 77% of the nation’s population), the m-RNA vaccine manages to easily surpass the herd immunity target of 60%. Coming to the judiciary, the survey found that 75% of the judges believed that the coronavirus had caught India pants down, while 82% believed that the virus’s actions amounted to contempt. Selfie cure On the other hand, as many as 65% of Bollywood actors believed that if they had taken a selfie with the virus at the right time, they would have been assured of lifetime immunity. About 55% of Bollywood respondents, especially producers, believed that no vaccine could be as effective as an apology on demand. “Just admit that you inadvertently offended the virus community and apologise to the coronavirus. Your COVID-19 symptoms will disappear,” a Bollywood producer renowned for making flops on demand was quoted by the survey as saying. Among economists, 91% believed that for India to overcome the coronavirus, the government must first privatise all antibodies. “The government should get out of the immune system. That will empower the invisible hand of the non-existent vaccine to isolate the virus and wring its neck,” a renowned economist and former member of NITI Aayog was quoted by the survey as saying. Interestingly, among gau rakshaks (cow protectors), 99.8% believed that both Covaxin and Covishield vaccines were produced from special ingredients extracted from the hair on the tail of a cow (only desi breeds, not cows of Jersey or Manchester United variety). Understandably, 98.8% of them wanted Covaxin and Covishield to be renamed as Cowaxin and Cowishield respectively. In Uttar Pradesh, the percentage of gau rakshaks who wanted this name change was 100%. Among television news anchors, 91% believed that a TRP-based vaccine would be more effective than either Covaxin or Covishield. Also, while 89% of them believed that screaming strengthens immunity, 82% of those who took the survey said they followed the motto, “One big lie at prime time keeps the virus away for all time”. As for the liberals, the authors of the NAIVE survey observe that they found it extremely difficult to identify bona fide liberals. They have cautioned that their data on liberals needs further authentication as the respondents could also have been closet fascists posing as liberals. Having added that caveat, the survey found that 77% of Indian liberals wanted the human body to open up its immune system to foreign capital, so that foreign genetic investors — more commonly known as viruses — can give employment to Indian antibodies. I’m sure you want to know more about the NAIVE survey. But I’ve run out of space. No worries. Just make a small donation (not less than one month’s salary) to GS-CARES. A PDF of the full survey report will be delivered free of cost to your inbox.  Among economists, 91% believed that for India to overcome the coronavirus, the government must first privatise all antibodies||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/cowaxin-anyone/article33707051.ece
31 January 2021||January 31 2021 00:00 IST,||The taming of RTI||For 24 years, until the enactment of the Right to Information Act (RTI)  in 2005, Shivaji Raut was an ordinary teacher, the vice-principal of Anant English Medium School in Satara district in western Maharashtra. But when he discovered the power of RTI in demanding accountability and transparency from the government, he suddenly shot into the limelight. I remember how, armed with copies of the muster rolls of 43 villages under the National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme that Raut had obtained via RTI, we travelled 650 km in one day to check for ourselves the authenticity of the names on the rolls. We picked three villages from Mann and Khatau talukas of Satara, and stood at each village square asking people to gather there. As we read out the names, we realised the huge fraud. Some names did not exist, some were literate but had thumb impressions against the wages paid, and some did not live in the village at all. Suddenly, we found in the RTI Act a tool to expose the government with its own certified copies. I still remember the ecstasy among scores of activists on October 12, 2005, when the RTI Act was implemented. Thanks to campaigns by activists such as Aruna Roy and Anna Hazare, word had spread far and wide and its use by citizens began. On March 13, 2007, former journalist Vijay Kumbhar took Pune by storm when he became the first citizen to inspect the files under Section 4 of the RTI Act. Until then, a citizen barging into a government office to demand information was unheard of. The very government that enacted the law was stunned at the way ordinary citizens took to it as a weapon of empowerment, and dismantled the government’s habit of secrecy, beginning with the Official Secrets Act of 1923, a British era relic carried forward enthusiastically. In 2006, the Manmohan Singh government launched the first missile to dilute the Act. The Cabinet surreptitiously approved a set of proposed amendments to exclude file notings and add more exemptions to Section 8 to include cabinet papers. Activists, however, managed to procure a copy of the proposals and launched a massive ‘Save RTI’ campaign. They sent postcards, signed petitions, and held street protests, demanding that the proposals be dropped as they were contrary to the UPA government’s promise of making the RTI Act more progressive, meaningful and participatory. Sensing the public mood, the government backtracked and did not table the amendments in the monsoon session. In 2006, civil society could prevail upon the government. Fourteen years later, the government in power did not care.  The Right to Information (Amendment) Act, 2019  was passed in both houses of Parliament without even a discussion and altering various key aspects of the law. Late appointments Along with the changes this amendment brought, there are at least five fundamental ways in which the Act is being undermined today. First, of course, is the disempowerment of information commissioners by the changed appointment rules. The tenures of the chief information commissioners (CICs) and information commissioners (ICs) at both the Centre and the State levels have been reduced to three years. Besides, their salaries are now set according to the whims of the government in power. ICs — who were earlier on par with the chief election commissioner and Supreme Court judges — have had their wings clipped. This has been strategically accompanied by long gaps in appointing Central and State information commissioners. Even a Supreme Court ruling, as recently as 2019, to make the appointment process transparent and fill up vacancies on time and with diverse candidates, is being audaciously ignored. As is diversity. Section 12 (5) of the RTI Act states that the commissioners be selected from among “persons of eminence in public life with wide knowledge and experience in law, science and technology, social service, management, journalism, mass media or administration and governance.” In reality, as the Report Card of Information Commissions 2019-20 by Satark Nagrik Sangathan and Centre for Equity Studies states, 84% of CICs are from bureaucratic backgrounds, including 65% retired IAS officers. To give one example of the political manipulation involved, when the former chief secretary of Maharashtra, Ratnakar Gaikwad, was favoured for the post of State chief information commissioner in 2012, the position was kept vacant for nine months till he retired. There are several examples of politicians sky-dropping their preferred government officials for the post of information commissioner even if they have not applied or been shortlisted by the selection committee. Pending appeals The second major way in which the RTI is being undermined can be seen in the number of pending appeals and complaints. As on July 31, 2020, in the 23 information commissions countrywide from which data was obtained, 2,33,384 appeals were pending. Not only are vacancies not filled by the State secretariat, qualified staff are withheld. One information commissioner from Maharashtra told me that rejected or incompetent staff from other departments are often sent to him. How do pending second appeals impact citizens? Reena, 33, is a widow with two little children, and works as a domestic help. She lives in Delhi’s Kusumpur Pahari, a slum with extremely poor physical and social infrastructure. Reena applied for a ration card at the Department of Food Supplies of the Delhi government in September 2018. In January 2019 she filed an RTI application seeking information about her request. Meanwhile, her widow pension was abruptly stopped by the Department of Women and Child Development without explanation. Reena filed a second appeal, this time to the CIC, in June 2019. She is still waiting for the hearing. And now, she is without either a ration card or a widow’s pension. The third matter of concern is to do with the implementation of Section 4 of the RTI Act, which laid down the suo motu disclosures that public authorities must make in public. Very few departments follow this law, despite a series of circulars by the Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT) since 2003. In 2013 the DoPT finally formed a task force because “the quality and quantity of proactive disclosure is not up to a desired level.” It went on to say that the weak implementation of Section 4 was “partly due to the fact that certain provisions of the Section are not fully detailed and in case of certain other provisions there is a need for laying down detailed guidelines... there is also a need to set up a compliance mechanism.’’ In 2021, the websites of most Central and State public authorities still don’t put up the information required under all 17 subsections of Section 4. Experts have said over and over again that if such information is proactively displayed, the number of RTI applications will fall by over 90%. Another reason why Section 4 compliance is poor is because of the lack of accountability. The Report Card of Information Commissions 2019-20 notes that “one of the problems with ensuring implementation of Section 4 is that the RTI Act empowers the commission to impose penalties only on PIOs [public information officers], while the responsibility of ensuring compliance with Section 4 is actually with the public authority rather than with a specific PIO.” It goes on to recommend that perhaps “the most effective way of dealing with this problem is to make heads of departments personally responsible for ensuring compliance with provisions of Section 4.” No prizes for guessing that this has not been complied with. Exemption clauses The next hurdle that RTI appellants face is the misuse of Section 8 of the RTI Act by PIOs who reject requests without due consideration. Former CIC Sridhar Acharyulu says, “After 15 years of the RTI Act, we should be looking at the possibility of misuse not by petitioners but by officers. I have seen that most PIOs use exemption clauses without any application of mind. This is because they find it hard to define the exemptions. They don’t have the knowledge, experience or infrastructure to assess what constitutes disclosures and non-disclosures. This, in my view, is a very serious stumbling block in the implementation of the RTI Act.” The fifth and most chilling factor that dilutes the Act is the killing of RTI activists across the country, with Maharashtra and Gujarat leading the way. Activists are termed blackmailers and as people with ulterior motives. Such disdain comes from public authorities, law enforcing authorities, and sometimes the media too. So, is there hope? Yes, there is. As long as citizens continue to enthusiastically use the RTI Act and civil society continues to campaign to save the Act, it will survive. The Act needs to be talked about. Since 2005, the government has done hardly anything to create public awareness about the RTI Act, although this is prescribed in the Act itself. It has been left to NGOs to hold workshops, give public lectures, and guide RTI users through clinics, kattas and helplines. The latest, for example, is the RTI Advice App, developed by Moneylife Foundation, that can be downloaded on smartphones. In a democracy, it’s information that puts power in the hands of citizens — whether while voting a government in or voting one out. So it’s in the citizen’s interest to keep the RTI Act going. The writer is Consulting Editor forCorporate Citizenmagazine andMoneylifewhere she writes a weekly RTI column.  The Right to Information (Amendment) Act, 2019, was passed in both houses of Parliament without even a discussion and altering various key aspects of the law   In 2021, the websites of most Central and State public authorities still don’t put up the information required under Section 4||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-taming-of-rti/article33707018.ece
31 January 2021||January 31 2021 00:00 IST,||A streetcar named nostalgia||Gariahat tram depot in south Kolkata is a place transformed. Till recently, this was an abandoned spot, almost a dumpyard, full of old rakes, wild growth and stench. As is common with prime land like this, there were whispers of it being sold as real estate. Step in now and the junk has been used to create a cool hangout place. The four rakes installed here tell the story of Kolkata trams through photos and old equipment such as bells, duplex gauge, controller or amp meter, supplemented with tram history from around the world. The rakes — from 1938, 1975 and 1980 — have been carefully preserved so as not to alter the effect of years on them, adding to the nostalgic charm. The characteristic wooden seats are there, as are the ceiling fans and the round, black electric switches. A dated Bengali advertisement extols the virtues of Prince Bakery’s vitamin-enriched sliced bread. A copy of a photograph by Clyde Waddell, who captured the Calcutta of 1945 in a series of dramatic images, shows commuters in dhoti-kurta hanging from tram windows. Waddell said, “Indians are the bravest commuters in the world. They hang from every handhold.” Tram World Kolkata is a project inaugurated in December last year by West Bengal Transport Corporation (WBTC) to commemorate 140 years of trams in Kolkata. It’s still a work in progress, with more rakes being readied for display. The aim, however, is not just to turn this into a museum or place of academic interest but also to create a new cultural hotspot. Complicated relationship “There will be cultural performances, a food court, display of art, a literature festival and more. It will be like Kala Ghoda of Mumbai or India Habitat Centre in Delhi,” says Rajanvir Singh Kapur, managing director, WBTC. But in a city that feels so strongly about its past, why were the depot and its trams in a shambles in the first place? Even if the Gariahat depot has got a new lease of life, there are several others in different parts of the city that are still in a sorry state. The answer lies in Kolkata’s complicated relationship with its trams. Like most things old and precious, trams too are celebrated in Kolkata, with events arranged regularly around them and news ones — like a tram with a library, air-conditioned trams, trams with Wi-Fi, or a tram designed as a tribute to the jute industry — launched from time to time. That, however, has done precious little to reverse the decline of trams as an effective mode of commute. Routes have shrunk and the number of trams has declined steadily. According to data collated by Calcutta Tram Users Association, from 37 routes covering 70 km in the 1960s, only six routes covering about 20 km remain operational. The number of operating trams has come down from about 180 in 2011 to about 37 in 2018 to less than 20 now. Only a handful of people use the tram to commute these days, leading to the oft-asked question: Will the Kolkata tram survive? Clunky past The weight of the past is clunky here. The tram’s journey began in 1880, when the Calcutta Tramways Company was registered in London. This was followed by the introduction of trams in many other Indian cities like Chennai, Mumbai and Patna. But it survived only in Kolkata. No one can point out exactly when the decline started but Debashish Bhattacharyya, who has been actively campaigning for almost 20 years to save the tram, says that it was sometime in the 80s when tram routes were stalled temporarily for Metro construction work. Way forward By the end of the 80s, trams were on their way out for being too slow and unprofitable. In the 1990s, WBTC started operating buses. Gone was the provision of running more trams during peak hours. According to data collected by tram advocates, the number of commuters had dropped almost ten-fold by 2008. However, by the beginning of this century, voices against the phasing out of trams were also getting louder, with activists promoting the tram both for its heritage value and lower pollution. This was boosted by an annual inter-cultural project called Tramjatra, launched in 1996, bringing together artists and tram communities from Melbourne and Kolkata.  But do these projects actually arrest the decline of trams? Current usage data present a bleak picture. While Bhattacharya argues that trams will become viable only with added fleets and practical routes, Kapur says the way forward is to get younger people back on trams. With increased interest, the push for more routes will come naturally, he says. Free Wi-Fi can definitely be a crowd-puller, but if there’s air-conditioning, the tram may no longer be a green alternative. As far as Tram World is concerned, many curious visitors like Abhishek Acharyya, 29, are pleasantly surprised to see the erstwhile dumpyard turned into a potential hangout space. But those who were expecting this project to conserve some of the historic bogeys are upset. “They have put mostly serviceable trams on display rather than the beautiful wooden bogeys lying abandoned in various depots, waiting to be scrapped. This is disappointing,” says freelance film-maker Shagnik Gupta. The writer is an independent journalist based in Kolkata.  Even if the Gariahat depot has got a new lease of life, there are several tram depots in different parts of Kolkata that are still in a sorry state||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/a-streetcar-named-nostalgia/article33707049.ece
31 January 2021||January 31 2021 00:00 IST,||A tryst with ‘trowel and spade’||India is a country with a vast and ancient cultural heritage. Its preservation and conservation is a responsibility on all of us. A systematic and organised excavation, conservation and restoration policy for this legacy started with the establishment of the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) in 1861, with Sir Alexander Cunningham as its first Archaeological Surveyor and later director general resulting in excavation of famous Buddhist sites such as Nalanda in the second half of the 19th century and of course the discovery of the Indus Valley Civilisation in 1921. In her new book, Archaeology and the Public Purpose: Writings on and by M.N. Deshpande , Nayanjot Lahiri interweaves the history of post-Independence archaeology in India with the life of Madhusudan Narhar Deshpande (1920-2008) to come up with a fascinating book in two parts, with the first giving us a glimpse into his life and work and the second containing his writings. The book not only brings out Deshpande’s contribution but the author’s own commitment to Indian archaeology and heritage studies. The story begins earlier. By the 1930s due to the ‘Great Depression... the ASI had reached an unusually low ebb’, to quote Lahiri. In 1944, following recommendations of a 1938 report by British archaeologist Leonard Woolley, Mortimer Wheeler was appointed as director general of the ASI. Charming anecdotes To deal with the concerns of a lack of sustained policy in archaeological work and understaffing of junior officers and technical training of its cadres, Wheeler proposed to set up a field training school in Taxila so that he could identify suitable scholars there and eventually employ them. He appealed to 19 vice-chancellors to recruit young university graduates for organised research and training in Indian archaeology and ‘to interpret, in humanistic and scientific terms, this unsurpassed inheritance’. Some years before Independence, a bunch of newly minted archaeologists made a ‘tryst with the trowel and spade’, as Lahiri terms it. Deshpande was one of them, and he went on to become the director general of ASI; he did his research under another great archaeologist, H.D. Sankalia, at Deccan College. The young archaeologists imbibed the basics of the discipline in the field, “digging trenches and documenting discoveries in places alive with history,” some in Taxila near Rawalpindi (like Deshpande) or at Arikamedu in Puducherry and others in the shadows of Karnataka’s megaliths. The author’s easy narrative flow describing the experiences of Deshpande during his archaeological work, along with contextual political background make it a riveting read. A photograph dated December 14, 1961, shows Jawaharlal Nehru looking tense, while Deshpande is his usual relaxed self. Lahiri provides the context: only a few days later the Indian army would move in to Goa to liberate it from Portuguese rule. Was that weighing on his mind? Charming anecdotes pepper the first part, where Nehru’s visit to the Ajanta caves with Lady Edwina Mountbatten is a personal favourite and their chemistry is well captured. Saving Badrinath The chapter on how Deshpande helped environmentalist Chandi Prasad Bhatt in saving the traditional fabric of Badrinath Temple in the 1970s is fascinating and can serve as a template for those trying to ensure that the integrity of our monumental legacy is not compromised. Deshpande’s writings on conservation and the methods he used for iconic monuments such as Gol Gumbaz in Bijapur, Qutub Minar in Delhi, the Tabo monastery at Lahaul and Spiti and the conservation of rock cut caves are fascinating. He linked a major group of rock cut caves to ancient trade routes, helping us understand the choice of location and its decline as new routes developed. I found myself walking with him in the Ellora caves and looking at it with new eyes. His thought processes, his advice and comments are important, for history and archaeology are inter-dependent. He writes, “It may also be remembered that history is not considered in modern times a mere chronological record of political events, but deals in a philosophical manner with the cause and effect of such events and in doing so interprets the significance of the cultural equipment and attainment of the people in their entirety both on the material plane and on the plane of ideas.” Gandhian ideals   Deshpande grew up in a family of freedom fighters inspired by Mahatma Gandhi, and his dedication to the preservation of the material remains of past societies of India is a lifelong mission, reflects his abiding contribution to India. His simple life on Gandhian ideals is an inspiration for generations to come. As he accompanied Mahatma Gandhi on his walks in 1942, when he was doing his graduation at Ferguson College, Pune, he is quoted in the book as saying, “So, there was no scope left for me to lose my way in life.” For him truth was to be worshipped and it is that truth which is beautifully brought out in this book. It is a must read for anyone interested in monuments, heritage and conservation. The reviewer is a historian.  Archaeology and the Public Purpose: Writings on and by M.N. Deshpande Nayanjot Lahiri Oxford University Press  Rs. 1,595||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/a-tryst-with-trowel-and-spade/article33707039.ece
31 January 2021||January 31 2021 00:00 IST,||Cranking up the rumour mill||These days, the market for rumours is thriving. The latest are about the novel coronavirus vaccine. My mind goes back to my field experiences in late 1950s and early 1960s in Rajasthan doing anthropological research in at least one village in each district. Selection of the village was done in consultation with the district officials. Most of the time, I had to walk a long distance to the village from the nearest bus stop. Before I reached the destination, I would explain who I was, what the purpose of my visit was and so on to many strangers. I guess the perceptions gained from such interactions became the basis for weaving rumours about me. On arrival in the village, I would usually be guided to the house of the zamindar or an influential landlord. There, a string cot would be brought out and a carpet spread. The curious villagers would gather around me. Somewhere in the distance, I could see some women scurrying around and trying to look at me through their veils, judging who I could be. Often, such strangers came from the Health Department to vaccinate against infections such as smallpox. All kinds of rumours surrounded such people and therefore, the first thing the villagers did on my arrival was to keep infants, children and women out of my sight. But observing that I was not opening any medical box, they would become relaxed. Invariably, soon after settling down, I would try to inform them the purpose of my visit. They would cut me short, suggesting “we know”. Soon I would be served food, but not before answering a barrage of questions.  On a dare By evening, I used to feel that I had gained some confidence of at least some people. Some daring young men would drop in, perhaps to trail me, but after some time, when they get a bit relaxed, I would learn from them the rumours floating about me. Most often, it would be about vaccination but more sinister used to be that I had gone there to kidnap children. One rumour which created so much confusion was that I was on a mission to recruit young people for the Army as the India-China conflict was going on. I had to seek some help to convince them that I was not on any such mission. But my friends who were doing a serological survey among the tribes in Bastar had a more difficult and sometimes hilarious time. In one village, most people left the village and disappeared into the forest. The entire team had to return empty-handed. In another village, the team leader explained to the assembled people that they need just a drop of blood for testing. He demonstrated it by pricking his own finger. A fellow from the assembled crowd said, “Sir, we are Rajputs. If you ask, we can give a whole pot of blood.” He then offered his finger to prick. Even before the needle could touch him, he swooned, resulting in a huge commotion, and the crowd just melted away. This rumour spread so quickly that it became difficult to collect any data. pramodkumarmisra@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/cranking-up-the-rumour-mill/article33707009.ece
31 January 2021||January 31 2021 00:00 IST,||Did Cassata steal the Vodafone pug?||Borrowing words from her MFA thesis advisor, Anushka Jasraj says in an interview, “The connecting theme [in a collection] should be that you wrote them.” The 13 stories in Jasraj’s debut collection inhabit widely diverse worlds, characterised by melancholia, volatility and dysfunctional realities. Each of them challenges your perceptions and pushes the boundaries of the imagination until you give in and let Jasraj’s deft craft steer the path. Leaving home The bizarre is the ordinary in these worlds. Sita has been practising twisting her limbs into a jalebi shape so she can leave her three-year-old marriage and join the Kohinoor Circus ( Circus ). Her prized possession is her great-grandmother’s eyeball preserved in a glass jar which she was given as a present on her 13th birthday. School-going Cassata, named after her dead grandfather’s favourite dessert, steals blouses, homoeopathic medicine, baby strollers ( Elephant Maximus ). “She even tried stealing the usefulness of things by taking the tops off salt-and-pepper shakers, seats from bicycles and steering wheels from cars.” Did she nick the “ugly miniature pug” from the Vodafone ad and an elephant, both for the sake of love? Why not In Feline , a private detective has to decide whether to tell her client that her ex-boyfriend’s mood graph showed more frowning pandas than grinning ones while they were dating, or to get involved with the ex-boyfriend herself. She settles down to answering private questions for strangers on Quora instead. The collection revels in incongruities. Why would the wealthy weatherwoman’s mother take off with the neighbour’s gold jewellery? Why does a woman who went to New York on her honeymoon and replicated a Damien Hirst artwork in her house, sleep in a tent with a lion and its tamer? Jasraj taunts you and asks, ‘Why not’. The absence of time, place and identity markers compounds the disorienting effect of these unusual situations. The more you try to grasp at principles of prediction, the harder you fall. Surrender to the free fall and Jasraj might throw you a parachute eventually. Raw emotions At the core of these tempestuous stories are moments of sincere, raw emotions. In Numerology , a father and daughter try to redraw their relationship after the death of the mother, fumbling awkwardly. In the eponymous story, the protagonist is found on the kitchen floor with her head in the refrigerator, “trying to cool down” a panic attack induced by the buzzing egg-timer. In Circus , the wife leaves an incomplete goodbye note for the husband because she can’t find the right word — “one that explains the emptiness inside me which is also a kind of nourishment.” In Elephant Maximus, Cassata, a “well-known figure in Chor Bazaar”, loses control of her bladder when she is punished at school for falling behind on homework. Numerology and Elephant Maximus dazzle, riding on the strength of their delightful child protagonists. Jasraj writes queerness into her characters as easily as she writes emotions. Her characters could be juggling both the fairly conventional sex life of a married woman and sexual fantasies that would put them at extreme ends of the spectrum. Jasraj doesn’t brand her characters’ sexuality, allowing them to flow and negotiate with the reader. Jasraj has made her mark as a short story writer — two of the stories here, Drawing Lessons and Radio Story, were Asia regional winners of the Commonwealth Short Story Prize. Her stories grip and baffle you in equal measure. Was Cassata a storyteller extraordinaire or a notorious thief? What is the answer to Dahlia’s cryptic clue — “that which is a beggary, if measured” — in Notes from the Ruins ? Jasraj, aware of the cost at which the satisfaction of closure is achieved, prods you instead to revel in the multiplicity of openings.  Principles of Prediction  Anushka Jasraj  Context  Rs. 499    The collection revels in incongruities. Why would the wealthyweatherwoman’s mother take off with the neighbour’s gold jewellery?||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/did-cassata-steal-the-vodafone-pug/article33707022.ece
31 January 2021||January 31 2021 00:00 IST,||The ethics of nonviolence in political resistance||The categories violence and nonviolence pose enormous philosophical and ethical challenges. Consider marginalised groups like racial minorities, refugees, and LGBTQ persons assembling on the streets to express dissent. Now, the state’s response is to immediately call out their public demonstrations as violent and invoke the defence of society as a justification to use the police and army against its opponents. Indeed, we must ask: who gets to name and define what is “violent”? At stake for Butler is an idea about recuperating an ethics of nonviolence and situating it within political resistance. If her starting premise is a critique of naming practices of “violence,” she underscores that violence and inequality are related. Social ties in peril In other words, violence originates within unequal social structures of race, class, gender, and sexuality. This fundamentally establishes that “violence imperils social ties” by occluding social bonds that constitute us as living creatures. Butler launches a critique of individualism and argues that nonviolence is a social practice of resistance to systemic forms of domination, thereby emerging precisely in its encounter with systemic violence.   Butler moves beyond the framework of legal rights to claim that nonviolence must have a commitment to a radical form of equality that imposes an obligation to recognise all lives as equally worthy. Arguing that we are socially interdependent on one another, she emphasises that violence against another is also violence against oneself. Butler avers that it is precisely by being surrounded by forces of violence that we can conceive nonviolence. Her analysis combines social-political action and psychoanalytic resources which stresses that impulses of anger and rage can be redirected into an “aggressive nonviolence”. By this token, she alludes to scenes of public protests in which the body’s force is put on the line to block police and state power. Lacks ethical practices However, her progressive commitments raise an inconsistency between nonviolence as an extreme form of assertion by groups contesting state power as against nonviolence as a mode of living. The tension is between confining nonviolence to public and political protests and that of self-transformation. While the latter need not exclude the former, the former certainly limits the latter to an adversarial contest. A further difficulty with Butler’s approach is that the nature of modern violence is not a monopoly of the state, it is diffuse and widespread. For thinkers like Gandhi, violence fundamentally obstructed the ability to know oneself. So, nonviolence was a means of self-transformation for everybody irrespective of where they were in power relations. An underlying limitation in Butler’s work is a clear absence of any mechanism for sound ethical action. For Gandhi, ahimsa was part of traditional and spiritual exercises. These practices ultimately prepared an individual with a practical wisdom of action implying good judgment and foresight. Butler’s account lacks any such connection with real conduct and instead constructs nonviolence in the realm of imagination. In The Force of Nonviolence , Butler opens a new consideration in the field of nonviolent studies founded within our prior social relations, which redirects impulses from our inner psychic life in crafting nonviolent social action. Butler accords marginal groups the agency to resist violence by publicly re-enacting their own subjection. Yet, despite her brilliant philosophical analysis, her theories are limited to a radical politics that is unable to explain vast forms of action beyond interactions with the state.  The reviewer teaches political philosophy and ethics at O.P. Jindal Global University.  The Force of Nonviolence: An Ethico-Political Bind Judith Butler Verso  Rs. 1,449||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-ethics-of-nonviolence-in-political-resistance/article33707036.ece
31 January 2021||January 31 2021 00:00 IST,||Easy like Sunday morning||1On January 31, 1924, Austrian Herma Szabo won the gold medal at the only women’s event at the very first Winter Olympics at Chamonix, France. The event was also the very first winter sport to be included in the Olympics. What event is this in which it is normal for athletes to experience more than 300 revolutions per minute and still continue performing? 2The only country to have won a gold medal at every Winter Olympic Games is the United States, and they have won a total of 282 medals (G/S/B) over 23 games. There is only one event in which the U.S. has never landed a single podium spot. This is the biathlon which is a cross-country race with an added element. What is the added element which is something many Americans are inexplicably passionate about? 3Curling is one of the oldest winter sports, having been depicted in a 1565 painting by Bruegel. Originating in Scotland, this bizarre sport is a sort of chess played using granite stones and brooms. What was the original playing fields for this game which happened every winter? 4There have been two instances in the history of the Winter Olympics where the competition was threatened by two interesting but exactly opposite issues. The first was at the 1964 Innsbruck games where the issue was solved with the help of the Austrian Army who took the help of a mountaintop. The second instance was at the 1998 Nagano, Japan games when schedules had to be adjusted because of a freak natural event. What are the two issues that affected these two games? 5The country which leads the medal tally at the Winter Olympics has a massive 362 medals of which 132 are gold. It is one of only three countries (along with Austria and Liechtenstein) that have more medals in the Winter games than the Summer games. Some of the reasons for their dominance are their geographical location, long history of cross-country skiing and free health care. Which country is this that hosted the 1952 Winter Olympics? 6At the 1932 Lake Placid Winter Games a certain demonstration took place which never returned to the Olympics. Five contestants from Canada and seven from the U.S. competed in the event which took place in a 40.5 km-long course. This was the first and (as of 2020) only time an animal other than a horse has taken part in the Olympics. What event is this which you would mostly associate with polar explorers? 7American athlete Eddie Eagan was a member of the four-man bobsled team that won gold at the 1932 Lake Placid Winter Olympics. This got him into the history books with a record that still stands. The record came about because 12 years earlier he had won the gold in Light-heavyweight boxing at the Antwerp Olympics. What unique record does Eagan hold? 8The 1980 Lake Placid Winter Olympics was hailed as the first ‘weather-proof’ Olympics. This was, thanks to a group of enterprising meteorologists, climate experts and technology. The venues were made picture-perfect and sport ready, thanks to huge machines which used a high-pressure pump to carry out their work. What did these machines provide which ensured that the games carried on despite there being a dry winter forecasted that year? 9Cecilia Colledge born in November 1920 is credited with being the first female skater to perform a double jump, as well as inventing two new spins. After watching the 1928 World Championships she was inspired and started practicing. This led to her taking part and placing 8th at the 1932 Winter Olympics. At the 1924 Olympics, Carl August Kronlund (born 1865) won a silver medal as part of the Swedish Curling team. What two records do these two athletes hold as of 2020? 10The summer Olympics have been boycotted by various countries for various reasons over the years. In the history of the Winter Olympics it has happened only once. This was at the 1980 Lake Placid Games when the International Olympic Committee recognised the People’s Republic of China (PRC) as ‘China’ (which was returning to the Olympics for the first time since 1952) and asked this country to compete under a different name to placate the PRC. What country is this which has a long-strained relationship with China? A molecular biologist from Madurai, our quizmaster enjoys trivia and music, and is working on a rock ballad called ‘Coffee is a Drink, Kaapi is an Emotion’. @bertyashley||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/easy-like-sunday-morning/article33707055.ece
31 January 2021||January 31 2021 00:00 IST,||Notes from the streets||Given the closed borders across countries in Europe, travel has come to a standstill. However, this unofficial travel ban has led me to explore my surroundings more closely. One way to do so for me has been to walk the streets scouting for hidden gems. Usually I walk early in the frigid Swedish winter mornings when the streets are empty and the sun is still a rumour. It’s only during these hours can I catch the sights that go unnoticed in the daytime disorder. Doing so led me to discover the street art of Malmö, the city where I live. It turns out that Malmö is one of the cities in Sweden that has the largest amount of street art, so much so that one can compare it to the street art capitals of the world such as New York, London, and Berlin. Look closely and you’ll find it everywhere in the city — covering full walls of residential buildings, the orphan streets of parking slots, and slotted in hidden corners. Some of it is painted over and over again, while a few have stayed there for many years, preserved by the city’s tourism industry. Big-bellied troll While I walked the streets of Malmö, I stumbled across ‘The Troll’, which is an eight-storey high graffiti of a big-bellied troll done by an Australian artist who goes by the name of ‘Smug One’. Just across ‘The Troll’ is yet another full-storied piece of a couple kissing, and this pop-art mural is rendered by a London-based street artist working under the alter-ego ‘D*Face’. One standout piece is located in the old part of the city and depicts a girl opening a book that has octopus tentacles emerging from the pages. This fantasy piece is by a Polish artist, Natalia Rake. My favourite one, the one that I see on most days, is located on a pub-punctuated street, and is a mural by a Columbian artist, ‘Stink Fish’, which depicts faces of aboriginal kids amidst an explosion of colour. His other work was apparently painted over by mistake by a cleaning company, which mistook it for careless graffiti. I was intrigued as to why so many international artists had decided to come to Malmö to do graffiti art. It turns out that Malmö organised a large-scale street art festival, the first ever in Sweden, in 2014. As part of the programme, the city invited 15 street artists. Art has the power to inspire, they say, and here is one city that has taken a commendable step to bring this form of art to the mainstream and legitimise what once used to be considered counter-culture art. ‘Legal’ walls Not that such festivals are a one-time activity. Turns out Malmö has reserved specific walls as ‘legal’ graffiti walls for street artists. I pass one such wall during my daily morning explorations, and find it covered with graffiti commentaries on global politics, from U.S. presidential elections to the situation in Gaza. However, given that there are many artists using these walls, the pieces don’t last long and get painted over within 48 hours. They say that you learn a lot by travelling. However, we have equated travelling with travelling far, whereas, travel could very well mean stepping out and exploring our surroundings. This is at least the discovery I made during these times. And I discovered a form of art that I had not paid much attention to earlier. The adrenaline rush-seeking travel writer lives in Malmö, Sweden.  One standout piece is located in the old part of the city and depicts a girl opening a book that has octopus tentacles emerging from the pages. This fantasy piece is by a Polish artist, Natalia Rake||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/notes-from-the-streets/article33707063.ece
31 January 2021||January 31 2021 00:00 IST,||Economic costs of COVID-19||It is difficult to keep abreast of the flow of writings on the genesis and spread of the COVID-19 infection by medical experts and by economists on its economic impact. Medical pundits are puzzled over the spread, mutations, and so forth. Economists are in no better position to assess the impact. On the health front, the worry was about the weak healthcare infrastructure which is patchy, mal-distributed, and not “universal.” Economists debated the near-total impact affecting all the sectors of the economy. The virus was playing havoc with both the supply and demand at the same time, a situation not met with in the past. A pandemic of enormous proportions should have alerted the global community and brought about a global coordination and action. This was missing. Weaknesses exposed Prof. Joseph Stiglitz, a Nobel laureate, observed in a session of the UN General Assembly, “The crisis exposed weaknesses in economies, governments, and societies, with developed countries unable to produce basic products like masks and ventilators, as their populations suffered poor health without social protection.” Add to these the travails of the global slowdown, the growing protectionism, trade war, etc. The hope for a quick global recovery appeared to remain a“fantasy.” India had its own story with a few distinguishing features rendering its struggle against the virus and holding the economy intractable. Arun Kumar highlights this in his new book, Indian Economy’s Greatest Crisis . It is ponderous in its scope, scholarly, and sobre in its analysis, but it succeeds in giving flesh and blood to the issues raised by most critics intuitively. A major part of the book is devoted to the sufferings of the migrant labour under lockdown. There is an analysis of the changed (and changing) nature of the complex modern economy in which labour is driven to live on subsistence wages. Chapter III studies, at length, how the lockdown hits the poor labourers hard. The next chapter goes into the nitty-gritty of the impact of the lockdown. Its predictions are dire and take into account the growing inequality and the rising new labour displacing technologies. Finally, Arun Kumar draws attention to the failure of the government to boost demand while the misplaced emphasis was to look at the supply side. Even when an assistance programme was announced, it was too little and too late. The last chapter attempts to suggest policies that relate them to a detailed examination done in the relevant chapter. After the global financial crisis of 2008, India faced economic stagnation, marked by lower GDP rates, falling manufacturing and productivity, a decline in exports. The demonetisation move of 2016 had the most devastating effect on the economy, striking at the root of the informal economy encompassing tiny (village) and SME sectors as also millions of marginal or migrant workers. It was against the twin weaknesses of public health infrastructure and the fragile economic structure that India had to combat the crisis. It was a daunting task and called for policy dialogues and action by the government after due diligence. Unfortunately, there was no consultation with either political parties or the public. Dr. Jayati Ghosh was forthright in saying that “the most destructive effect of COVID-19 in India was not due to the disease but the government’s response.” The book is like a compendium on the impact of the virus on the Indian economy and is a valuable contribution to the new genre of COVID economics.  The reviewer writes on economic and strategic issues.  Indian Economy’s Greatest Crisis Arun Kumar Penguin Random House  Rs. 499||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/economic-costs-of-covid-19/article33707034.ece
31 January 2021||January 31 2021 00:00 IST,||Increase your ratings||Dear Agony Akka,  Our RWA ladies’ group has been regularly organising kitty parties each and every month. But this time, one brihaspati woman in our gated community has decided to organise it on Budget Day. I am dreading the kitty party. Not because of pandemic — as you know, India has conquered Covid already. But because of this woman whose good name is Rohini. Earlier, kitty party meant snacks, tea, tambola, chit-chat. And as secretary I was always the prime mover and shaker at our meets. All that has changed since That Woman moved into Flat 12B. She says she is MA in “entire political science” and is showing off all the time. I know she is arranging this so that she can drop words like “fiscal deficit” and “GDP” and whatnot. She always manages to sound very knowledgeable and my hold on the ladies is slipping away. Please teach me a few Budget phrases and trivia that I can throw around casually during the kitty party and increase my popularity ratings. — Lady of Learning   Dear LOL,  Yourpredicament is understandable. Even at their best, Budget speeches are full of mumbo-jumbo so that the government can describe it in any way it wants to — pro-poor, pro-growth, pro-digital, pro-farmer, etc. This makes the Budget very flexible. It also helps the Opposition parties. While happily missing Parliament session, they can simply pick up any one phrase the next day like multiple choice answer: anti-farmer, anti-labour, a blot on humanity, all of the above. Like that only, Rohini also knows that nobody knows anything, so she is bamboozling your women’s group members into thinking she is knowledgeable. She won’t be the first person with a degree in “complete political science” to pull off such stunts. So how can you blunt this pseudo-intellectual insurrection? I don’t think you should even try to pick up some Budget phrases and financial jargon. With barely a day left for the big day, it is too much burden for a busy Ladies Club Secretary to carry. And anyway, you need at least one degree from Yale to make masiyal with fiscal. Instead, I will suggest good idea. You master the crafty technique that politicians use when they want to spread blatant lies while simultaneously appearing to be sceptical about it. The simplest way to do this is to ‘forward’ the most cuckoo theories and innocently ask: ‘Is this true?’ For instance, you can practise this line: “I heard that the GST on beard-trimmers is being raised to 28% and our Dear Leader is preparing the nation for this by growing his beard. Is this true?” But I am afraid, dear LOL, that even this might tax your admittedly limited budget GK. Because if there is any follow-up question on Hair Oil, you will be stumped. My bigger point, therefore, is this. You should be playing to your areas of strength, not to Rohini’s. Your best bet is to do what the TV anchors do. Monopolise the conversation and steer it towards topics that have nothing to do with anything. Watch a few prime-time news shows and get some tips on how to drown other people’s voices. As soon as the ladies club meeting starts, keep up a running commentary on the symbolism of the Finance Minister’s saree colour. Read up the Wikipedia entry on Tamil poet Avvaiyar — the good woman is sure to get a mention in tomorrow’s Budget. Garnish the conversation by quoting couplets that nobody understands. You will soon be the centre of attention. Who wants to know about Public Debt when you are spouting Poetry? And who will listen to Rohini talking about FRBM when you can baffle them with bahi-khata? Go forth and shine.  — AA   agony.akka@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/increase-your-ratings/article33707053.ece
31 January 2021||January 31 2021 00:00 IST,||Logical defence||Aggressive bidding, but aggressive contracts don’t go down by themselves. You have to find a way to defeat them. We occasionally use deals, with his permission, from Larry Cohen’s website. This is one of them. You are East. You win the opening club lead with the ace as declarer “cleverly” false cards with the king. You know his exact holding, of course, as partner’s lead of the jack denies the queen. What next? Dummy’s diamond spots are pretty good. He should have no trouble setting up a diamond or two for spade discards, so you’d better get after your spade trick. You shift to the king of spades, which declarer allows to hold the trick. There is danger now that the ace of spades and a spade ruff will set up the spades for diamond discards. Now it is time to get after your diamond trick, if you have one. Partner will need to hold the queen of diamonds plus a trump trick, but if he doesn’t have those things, you are not beating this contract. You must shift to a diamond. Any diamond will do — low or the king — and your good work is done. You have played a different suit at every turn — not always a good idea for the defence — but it was all suggested by logic. Your efforts are rewarded when partner has exactly what you needed him to have and the contract fails by one trick. Nice defence!||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/logical-defence/article33707058.ece
31 January 2021||January 31 2021 00:00 IST,||Better Luck Next Time||Julia Claiborne Johnson  Custom House $28.99 It’s 1938 and Reno, Nevada, is the “divorce capital of the world,” where wives head for a no-questions-asked divorce. Only, they have to wait six weeks to become ‘residents’. The Flying Leap ranch is teeming with them. A 24-year-old destitute, Ward, finds a job there and his life changes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/better-luck-next-time/article33707024.ece
31 January 2021||January 31 2021 00:00 IST,||The House on Vesper Sands||Paraic O’Donnell  Tin House Books $26.95 London, 1893. A seamstress jumps from the window, a cryptic message stitched to her skin. Is she connected to a rash of missing girls, all of whom seem to have disappeared under similar circumstances? On the case is sharp and quick-witted Inspector Cutter in this murder mystery.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-house-on-vesper-sands/article33707026.ece
31 January 2021||January 31 2021 00:00 IST,||Before the Ruins||Victoria Gosling  Henry Holt and Co. $26.99 Four teenagers decide to seek out the end of the world in a deserted manor house, the site of a historic unsolved mystery. There they meet the charming and unreliable David, who leads them to a treasure hunt. The hunt comes to encompass years of secrets, lies, and a terrible betrayal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/before-the-ruins/article33707028.ece
31 January 2021||January 31 2021 00:00 IST,||The Prophets||Robert Jones Jr.  G.P. Putnam’s Sons $27 In a Deep South plantation, two enslaved young men find refuge in each other. When an elderly fellow slave seeks to find favour by preaching the master’s gospel on the plantation, the workers begin to turn on their own. Isaiah and Samuel’s love is suddenly seen as sinful and dangerous.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-prophets/article33707030.ece
31 January 2021||January 31 2021 00:00 IST,||Nonviolent Resistance as a Philosophy of Life: Gandhi’s Enduring Relevance||Ramin Jahanbegloo  Bloomsbury  £17.99 What do we mean by nonviolence? Are there limits to nonviolence? These are two of the questions Jahanbegloo tackles in his journey though the major political advocates of nonviolence during the 20th century.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/nonviolent-resistance-as-a-philosophy-of-life-gandhis-enduring-relevance/article33707032.ece
31 January 2021||January 31 2021 00:00 IST,||No Straight Thing Was Ever Made: Essays on Mental Health||Urvashi Bahuguna  Viking/Penguin  Rs. 499 Through essays that move between personal narratives, anecdotes and research, Bahuguna traverses the opportunities and roadblocks that came her way with the tools that were available to her to overcome her mood swings since a teenager.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/no-straight-thing-was-ever-made-essays-on-mental-health/article33707041.ece
31 January 2021||January 31 2021 00:00 IST,||Midnight’s Borders: A People’s History of Modern India||Suchitra Vijayan  Context/Westland Books  Rs. 699 India is a land of borders, its peripheries nestling against several countries. Over seven years, across 9,000 miles, Vijayan travelled these borderlands. Her stories and photographs engage with how people live, struggle, fight and survive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/midnights-borders-a-peoples-history-of-modern-india/article33707043.ece
31 January 2021||January 31 2021 00:00 IST,||India After Liberalisation: An Overview||Bimal Jalan  HarperCollins  Rs. 499 Former RBI Governor Bimal Jalan offers a wide-angle view of how the liberalisation of 1991 has shaped the decades that followed. Though India is best placed to reach high growth, several issues need to be sorted out like reforms in the banking sector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/india-after-liberalisation-an-overview/article33707045.ece
31 January 2021||January 31 2021 00:00 IST,||The Sunday Crossword No. 3135||Across  1 Fetch coals, kindling and what to clean up with (4,6) 6 Bar, one offering pork pie that’s been recalled (4) 9 Spooner’s to be bold enough to divulge honest transaction (6,4) 10 Block and bar (4) 12 Island in plaza renovated with evenly built-in stone (5,6) 15 Hard seeing stories’ heroes topless, wanting clothing (7) 16 Smoothly operated, not beginning to see bureaucracy (3,4) 17 Farfalle grocer hides quickly (7) 19 Seen in sonar: ‘Whale ... another whale’ (7) 20 Make improvements to cello lacking content in performance (11) 23 China about to tip over, making loud noise (4) 24 Not changing oil, I’m not coming home for starters, having broken down (10) 25 What makes breeze breathe? (4) 26 Sportspeople fight in front of nightspot (6,4)  Down  1 Not eating quickly (4) 2 Every now and then, coloured part of puzzle (4) 3 Grins, having coal and gin prepared for festive event (5,7) 4 Everyman put in dictionary: ‘pu’s a Greek character’ (7) 5 Animal’s eaten acre, made to go on run, sounding less healthy (7) 7 A renowned tennis hero; universally respected American sportsman; his excellence spotted early on? (6,4) 8 Crookedly makes cuts, unedifyingly including education (10) 11 How bells may be sounded: loudly, expressing distress (4-8) 13 Dramatic recital that almost worked (10) 14 Old scrawl’s deciphered with unparalleled skill (5-5) 18 Regularly dropping oars, I annoy cox endlessly leading us to river (7) 19 Safari destination’s Guyana; I rob ibises’ nests (7) 21 Pulse noted as children’s author has heart transplant (4) 22 Ultimately, this taxi’s not one loved by unions (4)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-sunday-crossword-no-3135/article33707061.ece
31 January 2021||January 31 2021 00:00 IST,||Sunday Recipe||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/sunday-recipe/article33707008.ece
31 January 2021||January 31 2021 00:00 IST,||Reneging on the ‘no-profit pledge’ to supply Oxford vaccine||On April 30, 2020, the day the University of Oxford signed an agreement with the UK-based AstraZeneca for development, manufacture and distribution of the COVID-19 vaccine (ChAdOx1 nCoV-19) that was then undergoing clinical trials, both partners committed to “operate on a not-for-profit basis for the duration of the coronavirus pandemic, with only the costs of production and distribution being covered”. Repeated promise This promise was repeated on multiple occasions by both Oxford University and AstraZeneca. On November 23, when the interim results of the phase-3 trials were announced, Oxford University in a release went a step further to point out the duration to which the vaccines would be made available at cost. “A key element of Oxford’s partnership with AstraZeneca is the joint commitment to provide the vaccine on a not-for-profit basis for the duration of the pandemic across the world, and in perpetuity to low- and middle-income countries,” the release said. The same day, Pascal Soriot, CEO of AstraZeneca reiterated his commitment to make the vaccines available at cost. “Our no-profit pledge and commitment to broad, equitable and timely access means it will be affordable and globally available,” he said. On December 30, the day the vaccine was approved for emergency use in the U.K., AstraZeneca reassured that it was working to “ensure broad and equitable access to the vaccine at no profit for the duration of the pandemic”. However, as early as October last year, it became clear that AstraZeneca’s no-profit pledge came with riders. In an agreement with the Brazilian public research body Fiocruz, AstraZeneca walked back on its promise when the company said it has “right under contract to declare pandemic over by July 2021”, the Financial Times reported. This is despite Brazil being one of the countries where AstraZeneca conducted the phase-3 trials. Good faith As per the agreement, AstraZeneca will produce 100 million doses worth $300 million for Fiocruz till July 2021 when the “definitive pact” will end. According to the Financial Times, the company can extend the agreement beyond July 2021 but only in “good faith” and if it considers that COVID-19 pandemic is not over. Answering how it would determine the end of the pandemic, Mr. Soriot said the company would seek “expert guidance, including from global organisations, as to when we can say that the pandemic is behind us.” Incidentally, in early June, AstraZeneca had reached a $750 million agreement with CEPI and Gavi to support the manufacturing, procurement and distribution of 300 million doses of the vaccine. AstraZeneca is not alone in reneging on the promise made. The Pune-based Serum Institute has signed an initial deal to sell 11 million of the shots to the Indian government for Rs. 200 (about $2.74) per dose. “We are giving it at a very special price of Rs. 200 for the first hundred million doses. Then there will be tendering and then different prices will be available,” Adar Poonawalla, CEO of Serum told NDTV. When the government permits the company to sell the vaccines in the private market, the vaccines will be priced at Rs.1,000 per dose, he added.  “I think we should ask that all companies make a commitment to access. Cost of goods plus certain percentage, rather than something that is five times the cost of goods,” Professor of Microbiology at CMC Vellore Dr. Gagandeep Kang said during a webinar organised by the Indian Scientists’ Response to COVID-19 (ISRC). “I think transparency of cost of making a vaccine is essential during a pandemic, and then price it as cost of goods plus 10-20% and no more than that until the pandemic is over.” She also cited an instance where companies make a profit: “All companies try to make a profit. For example, Rotavac sold by Bharat Biotech was $1 a dose for the public market and Rs. 700 in the private market in India.” But the difference is that unlike the COVID-19 vaccines, Rotavac was not developed during and for fighting a rotavirus gastroenteritis pandemic. Also, Serum has received funding from GAVI and Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation to produce Covishield vaccines both for India and the global South. “Through our collaboration with GAVI and the Serum Institute of India, we are financing the manufacture of 200 million vaccine doses for low- and middle-income countries,” Trevor Mundel, President of the Global Health Division, Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation told The Hindu.  Ceiling price According to the company’s September 29, 2020, press release, it received $300 million funding from Gavi and the Gates Foundation to “accelerate the manufacture and delivery of up to 100 million doses of vaccines for India and low-and middle-income countries”. The release also says: “The vaccines will have a ceiling price of $3 per dose, a price enabled by investments made by CEPI, the Gates Foundation and SII.” Most importantly, ICMR is a co-sponsor of the phase-1 and phase-2 trials carried out in India and met the trial expenses of some of the trial sites, says Dr. Samiran Panda of ICMR. Other countries Despite the agreements to sell vaccines at cost, it comes to light that Serum has begun selling vaccines to other countries at fairly high prices. In the case of Bangladesh, the vaccines have been priced at $4 a dose, about 47% more than what India pays for the vaccines, Reuters reported. In the case of South Africa, Serum will be supplying vaccines at $5.25 a dose, which is much higher than the price under the African Union agreement for Covishield, and also what the European countries have agreed to pay AstraZeneca. Ironically, South Africa was the third country where AstraZeneca had conducted the phase-3 trials, the data of which were used by the Indian regulator to grant restricted use approval to Covishield. Serum’s supply of three million doses to Saudi Arabia is also priced at $5.25 a dose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/reneging-on-the-no-profit-pledge-to-supply-oxford-vaccine/article33707162.ece
31 January 2021||January 31 2021 00:00 IST,||COVID-19 pandemic: is it a decline after the peak?||The COVID-19 pandemic that originated in China presumably in September of 2019, took the world by storm in 2020, wreaking havoc on global health and economy. Each country responded to the pandemic in its own way. The importations of the coronavirus were early and more numerous in countries with heavy travel to and from China, Italy, for example. Such countries were surprised with early start and rapid spread of the epidemic, overwhelming even their well-organised and robust healthcare systems. The test-treat-trace-isolate policy of the Western world, and non-pharmacological personal protective measures – cough etiquette, mask wearing, maintaining physical distance and hand washing with varying degrees of acceptance – were able to flatten the initial wave of the epidemic curve. However, the virus was too infectious; the emergent variants even more so. Premature relaxation of curbs on assembly and personal protective measures led to resurgence of infections and larger second waves during the last quarter of 2020, spilling over to January 2021. Countries which adopted universal mask-wearing and provided easy access for PCR testing for infection – such as Taiwan and South Korea, escaped with fewer cases and fewer deaths compared to many others. The socio-cultural-cum-political situations in countries like the U.S. and the U.K. led to public resistance to accept restrictions of personal freedom with consequent aggravation of the epidemics. However, for the last four months, all countries were eagerly waiting for a respite – by way of decline of the epidemic, which had to follow a peak. We believe the peak is just past, good tidings to the worst affected countries. Composite structure The pandemic is a composite of epidemics in all countries, hence a statistical construct, not reflecting any country-specific epidemic; some countries like India peaked earlier, some like Indonesia and Portugal may see a later epidemic peak, but this will not influence the world peak. The weekly number of cases world-wide, available in the Worldometer website, show that the pandemic has begun to decline as shown in the graph. Thirty-five countries started rolling out vaccination in 2020 – China and Russia in September; the U.K., the U.S. and Canada in the second week of December and others by late December. More countries, including India have initiated vaccination programme in January 2021. Only very few have started giving the second dose – therefore vaccination has not started contributing to the decline of the epidemic in any country. Remember, it takes two weeks after second dose – or six weeks from the date of the first dose, to confer immunity against COVID and have an impact on the epidemic curve. Therefore, vaccination has so far not contributed to the decline of the epidemic in any country. The graph tells us that the global peak occurred around January 10, with decline in the ensuing 2 weeks. The weekly number of deaths are still on the ascent. This is expected in view of the four-week delay between infection and death. We expect the mortality graph to reach peak shortly and then decline. If that turns out to be true, our conclusion about the pandemic peak and decline will also be true. What does the peak signify? The herd immunity threshold for COVID-19 coronavirus infection is approximately 60%, and at the peak of the epidemic, half that level, about 30% of the world population would have been infected. The peak is the half -way mark and in the absence of vaccination, a further 30% of the population would get infected before endemic phase is reached. Effect of mass vaccination Mass vaccination in countries which have not reached endemicity already, should accelerate the rate of decline of infections and take the world to a ‘pan-endemic’ state. If vaccination strategy is purposefully tailored, the programme carried out seamlessly and efficiently and universal acceptance is achieved through proper information-education -communication, we can prevent further deaths due to COVID-19 globally. We will even have an opportunity to eradicate COVID-19. For this, all nations of the world should act in unison, helping each other, with support and leadership from WHO and cooperation of philanthropic agencies. This will pave the way for rapid and smooth global economic recovery. India has already set an example by sharing the vaccine with its neighbours, a fact much appreciated by the WHO. In this pandemic, the world has learnt an important lesson. Any disturbance in ecological balance and health of species anywhere in the world may come with a heavy price. Among other ill effects, such imbalance may lead to animal-to-human transmission of serious infectious disease and threaten the fabric of socio-cultural and economic stability of mankind. All human developmental activities should be in tune with nature enabling all creatures to live peacefully in their respective habitats.  (Dr. M.S. Seshadri is Medical Director and consultant Physician, Thirumalai Mission Hospital, Ranipet, Vellore, Tamil Nadu. Dr. T. Jacob John is former Professor of Clinical Virology, CMC Hospital Vellore.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/covid-19-pandemic-is-it-a-decline-after-the-peak/article33707153.ece
31 January 2021||January 31 2021 00:00 IST,||How neutrinos aid in the death of massive stars||Many stars, towards the end of their lifetimes, form supernovas - massive explosions that send their outer layers shooting into the surrounding space. Most of the energy of the supernova is carried away by neutrinos – tiny particles with no charge and which interact weakly with matter. Researching the mechanisms of the so called Type II supernovas, a team from IIT Guwahati has come up with new insights into the part played by neutrinos in this dramatic death of massive stars. The collaboration includes astrophysicists from Max Planck Institute, Munich, Germany; Northwestern University, Illinois and University of California, Berkeley, in the U.S. Fate of the star All stars burn nuclear fuel in their cores to produce energy. The heat generates internal pressure which pushes outwards and prevents the star from collapsing inward due to the action of gravity on its own mass. But when the star ages and runs out of fuel to burn, it starts to cool inside. This causes a lowering of its internal pressure and therefore the force of gravity wins; the star starts to collapse inwards. This builds up shock waves because it happens very suddenly, and the shock wave sends the outer material of the star flying. This is what is perceived as a supernova. This happens in very massive stars. In stars that are more than eight times as massive as the Sun, the supernova is accompanied by a collapsing of the inner material of the dying star – this is also known as core collapse supernova or Type II supernova. The collapsing core may form a black hole or a neutron star, according as its mass. “Our work is on these core-collapse events of type II supernova,” says Sovan Chakraborty of the physics department of IIT Guwahati, in an email to The Hindu.  Three flavours Neutrinos come in three ‘flavours’, another name for ‘types’, and each flavour is associated with a light elementary particle. For instance, the electron-neutrino is associated with the electron; the muon-neutrino with the muon and the tau-neutrino with the tau particle. As they spew out of the raging supernova, the neutrinos can change from one flavour to another in a process known as neutrino oscillations. As Dr. Chakraborty explains, due to the high density and energy of the supernova, several interesting features emerge as this is a nonlinear phenomenon: “This [phenomenon] may generate neutrino oscillations happening simultaneously over different energies (unlike normal neutrino oscillation), termed collective neutrino oscillation. The oscillation result may dramatically change when one allows the evolution with the angular asymmetry, the oscillations can happen at a nanosecond time scale, termed fast oscillation.” Models of this process, dubbed the effective two-flavour models, have only taken into account the asymmetry between electron neutrino and the corresponding antineutrino. In a paper published in Physical Review Letters, the researchers from IIT Guwahati claim that a three-flavour model is needed to predict well the dynamics of the supernova. Fast oscillations The fast oscillations are important because the researchers find that these can decide the flavour information of the supernova neutrinos. So far, this has not been done, and models have only kept terms involving a neutrino and its corresponding anti-neutrino. “We find that fast nonlinear oscillations of neutrinos are sensitive to three flavours, and neglecting the third flavour may yield the wrong answer,” says Dr. Chakraborty. “Thus, the presence of …[asymmetry between] the muon neutrinos and antineutrinos will be crucial for the neutrino oscillations, in turn influencing the supernova mechanism.” Understanding this is important when one wants to measure the influence of neutrinos and their oscillations on supernova mechanism and heavy element synthesis in stellar environments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/how-neutrinos-aid-in-the-death-of-massive-stars/article33707158.ece
31 January 2021||January 31 2021 00:00 IST,||Tropical cyclones move closer to land except for Atlantic hurricanes||Tropical cyclones across the globe, except Atlantic hurricanes, are moving closer to land in recent decades, a new study found. Tropical cyclones generally have been moving westward by about 30 kilometres per decade since 1982, putting them closer to land and making them more dangerous, a study published in Science said. Each decade since the 1980s, an additional two cyclones have come within 200 kilometres of land, the study said Ominous trends Researchers do not quite know why this is happening, but it adds to other ominous trends in cyclone activity. Past studies have found that the most intense storms are getting stronger and storms in general are getting wetter, shifting poleward, moving slower and are keeping their power longer after hitting land. But while the new study found storms are getting closer to land, researchers still haven’t seen a significant increase in landfalls, which “is still a puzzle,” said study lead author Shuai Wang, a cyclone scientist at Imperial College in London. Atlantic zone It's mysterious that, unlike other areas, the Atlantic hurricane basin didn’t show any significant westward shift, but that could be because the Atlantic hurricane zone is more closely surrounded by continents, Wang said. The busiest tropical cyclone basin is in the western Pacific, where there are the most landfalls and the shift westward is twice as big as the global average. Wang and his colleagues are still trying to figure out why this westward shift is happening. Storms generally move east to west because of trade winds in the tropics, so a greater westward shift usually puts them closer to where the land is, Wang said. Storms that form just west of land, such as in the Pacific off the California and Mexican coasts, are usually moving away from land already, so this shift doesn’t spare more land. Changes in atmospheric currents that steer storms tend to be pushing cyclones farther west, but why is still an open question, Wang said. He said it could be only partly explained by some natural long-term climate cycles. Other factors Other shifts in atmospheric patterns have been connected to human-caused climate change and that’s a possible factor in the shift but not something researchers can prove yet, he said. Massachusetts Institute of Technology hurricane expert Kerry Emanuel said the study is plausible, especially since scientists have already seen a shift of storms more toward the north and south poles, but it raises questions that require follow up, especially why no corresponding increase in landfalls has been found.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/tropical-cyclones-move-closer-to-land-except-for-atlantic-hurricanes/article33707161.ece
31 January 2021||January 31 2021 00:00 IST,||Saturn’s tilting axis||What caused the tilt to Saturn’s rotation axis? The tilt of the rotation axis of the gas giant Saturn may in fact be caused by its moons, scientists from CNRS, Sorbonne University and the University of Pisa have reported (Nature Astronomy). The current tilt of Saturn's rotation axis is caused by the migration of its satellites, and especially by that of its largest moon, Titan. Recent observations have shown that Titan and the other moons are gradually moving away from Saturn much faster than astronomers had previously estimated. By incorporating this into their calculations, the researchers concluded that this process affects the inclination of Saturn's rotation axis: as its satellites move further away, the planet tilts more and more. In fact, what we see today is merely a transitional stage in this shift. Over the next few billion years, the inclination of Saturn’s axis could more than double. The decisive event that tilted Saturn is thought to have occurred relatively recently. For over three billion years after its formation, Saturn’s rotation axis remained only slightly tilted. It was only roughly a billion years ago that the gradual motion of its satellites triggered a resonance phenomenon that continues today: Saturn's axis interacted with the path of the planet Neptune and gradually tilted until it reached the inclination of 27 degrees observed today, says a release from CNRS.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/saturns-tilting-axis/article33707157.ece
31 January 2021||January 31 2021 00:00 IST,||Back to school||A touchless temperature check for every student passing through the gate, a safety precaution protocol to include personal hygiene, a face recognition terminal that raises an alarm when someone’s mask falls. Schools across the country are slowly opening up for kids and teens to come back after 10 months, to a space where frequent contact used to be the norm. Today, the jostling of children in corridors may not be possible, but staff members are looking forward to the noise and the social setting a school is meant to be. “It’s heart warming to have the children back in campus,” says Rahat Rashed, vice-principal of Meridian School in Hyderabad. She admits there are going to be structural changes though. Here’s what to expect when you enter a school today.  Classroom connect  The SOPs issued by the Education Ministry stipulate a physical distancing of at least six feet, disinfecting campuses at regular intervals, and frequent hand washing with soap. “Extraordinary times call for extraordinary measures,” says Jacob Thomas, president of Good Shepherd International School in Ooty. The campus has been split into safe zone and restricted zone. “We adopted a conservative approach. To adapt to the challenges, a COVID Task Force was in place as early as last October. We started with educating ourselves, right from support staff and admin staff on preventive measures, sanitation, and social distancing. We held virtual sessions with parents to clear their doubts about sending their children back to school,” he says. At Rajagiri Public School in Ernakulam, a few extra classrooms with sensor platforms and WiFi are used, for classes in small groups. “We have taken help of tech, especially gadgets for sanitation,” says Fr. Verghese Kachappilly, principal. To diminish anxieties around the virus, schools are going the extra mile to ensure safety. “We ensure that students using school transport are spaced as recommended and that when students are in class they are seated with the recommended distance between desks,” says Richard Hillebrand, director of academics and principal of Trivandrum International School. Like many other institutions, Meridian School has restructured the timetable from nursery to Class XII to ensure staggered timings for children. “The learning environments in the school are filled with colourful, pictorial depictions and slogans that sensitise students on hygiene and cleanliness practices such as washing hands frequently and safer social distancing measures, with relevant identification markings,” says Manimekalai Mohan, founder and managing trustee, SSVM Institutions. Lawrence School in Lovedale, Ooty, that functions out of a sprawling 750-acre green campus, has turned towards the ‘bio-bubble’ concept. “We have eight bio-bubbles of Class X students where they stay isolated to minimise the risk of COVID-19 infection. Students undergo a seven-day quarantine after which they are tested for the virus before attending classes. At laboratory and canteen, we have a shift system to avoid crowding,” says K. Prabhakar, principal.  Playground playout  While team sports like basketball and hockey have been put on hold, the spotlight has turned towards games like archery, skating, billiards, and rifle shooting. “As students had cut down on physical activities during lockdown, we want them to engage in such individual sporting activities,” adds Sashi Kumaar, chairman of The Western Ghats International School in Ettimadai, near Coimbatore. At Rajagiri School, turf football and cricket are encouraged with safety protocols, while Lawrence School has shifted to online yoga for students. Sadly, there will be no clinking of lunch boxes or sharing food during lunch hour. “Students spend four to five hours at the campus and no eating is allowed on the campus,” adds Rashed. One with nature “We have added indoor plants to classrooms, especially the ones that purify oxygen in the air and other medicinal plants to ensure that students breathe in pollution-free air,” says Samraj. Students at Good Shepherd school in Ooty learn in tune with nature. “Students from Classes IX to XII have laptops now and the Internet access points across the campus enables them to attend classes outdoors, amidst greenery,” says Thomas. Hillebrand adds, “We are fortunate that the design and situation of the school allows for the breeze to ventilate classrooms. Students, of course, wear masks and are reminded about the importance of social distancing. Parent help is very important and comes mainly in making sure students are ready for school — they have their masks on, and they only attend if completely well.” At SSVM Institutions, a new school calendar has been planned where the events with large gatherings of students/parents are strictly avoided. “We are making celebrations virtual and resorting to webinars,” says Manimekalai. Mental health matters Schools have realised that the lockdown and time away from each other has taken a toll on mental health. Fr. Verghese says he is at the gate every morning to greet his students. “We counsel students to understand their mental stature, and to build confidence.” Some have gone a step ahead, acknowledging the link between physical and psychological well-being. Says Rashed, “We turned sports day into a wellness and activity challenge, where we encouraged children to make and share short videos of their exercise regimen. We play motivational videos and hold sessions with psychologists and counsellors to help children cope.”  Student initiatives  Students of Shiv Nadar School in Delhi have developed SAFE, a self-sanitising bench with UV sterilising light, that can reduce the risk of transmitting infections like viral conjunctivitis, influenza and hepatitis A, besides COVID-19. The bench comes with ultrasonic sensors that automatically switch on once the user gets off, sanitising the bench through the UV light.  Students of The Western Ghats International School are making a video titled ‘Thank You Corona’, which they will upload on YouTube shortly. This is an initiative to orient students towards honouring doctors, nurses, and sanitation workers who emerged as the heroes of the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/back-to-school/article33707540.ece
31 January 2021||January 31 2021 00:00 IST,||Testing vaccines against SARS-CoV-2 variants||The story so far: Bharat Biotech, the makers of Covaxin, and the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) reported results of a study that showed the vaccine appeared to be working against B.1.1.7, better known as the U.K. variant or a new variant of SARS-CoV-2. Pfizer and Moderna, whose vaccines have been approved after demonstrating efficacy, have also undertaken studies to check if their vaccines are effective against new variants. Why and how are such studies done? Covaxin, among the two vaccines being used to inoculate Indian health-care workers — the other being Covishield — was still in clinical trial mode when it was approved for restricted emergency use. Among the reasons advocated by the government for doing so was the possible infection by mutant strains, like the U.K. variant. The B.1.1.7 variant, with many mutations, some in the spike protein, was linked to a sharp spike in coronavirus cases in the United Kingdom and many other countries. In India, the variant has been confirmed in 165 people (January 28), all with a travel history to the U.K. Another variant, B.1.351, first identified in South Africa, has been reported from several countries. With most vaccines targeting the spike protein, a variant with mutations that helps SARS-CoV-2 evade the immune system could defeat their purpose. One way to find out the ability of a specific antibody to neutralise a virus is through a serological test called the Plaque Reduction Neutralisation Test (PRNT). Blood serum, that contains antibodies, is taken from people who have been infected or have been vaccinated. This antibody soup is diluted and mixed with the virus and evaluated in customised plates to see the extent to which neutralising antibodies were successful in containing the virus spread. To check the antibodies’ capabilities against mutant variants, scientists at the National Institute of Virology, Pune, used antibodies obtained from people who had been vaccinated in the Covaxin trials and tested them against virus extracted from those infected with the U.K. strain and another un-named strain, hCoV27 19/India/2020Q111, reportedly a strain with provenance from Iran. What did the study find? The objective of PRNT is to find out the antibodies needed to reduce a given amount of virus by a fixed proportion. What emerged was that irrespective of the SARS-CoV-2 strain tested, roughly the same number of antibodies were needed to kill the virus. This implies that Covaxin generated antibodies that were as effective against the mutant U.K. variant as the virus used to make the vaccine. Tests by Pfizer and Moderna had found similar results, though there has been no such test reported on the AstraZeneca Covishield vaccine. What does it imply? The latest study attests to the fact that Covaxin is a promising candidate to be tested in large trials. A laboratory study that quantifies the antibodies generated against a virus does not correlate with a vaccine’s efficacy or effectiveness in the field. That can only be done via a phase-3 trial that compares it in different sets of the population. A limitation of the Covaxin study, which has not been peer reviewed, is that it does not discuss other important aspects. For instance, an important mutation in the South African variant, called E484K, has been found to help the virus evade detection. How long does antibody protection last? There is considerable uncertainty if antibody protection can last over six months. It is not clear whether a mutant can evade lower concentrations of antibodies. The promoters of Covaxin and scientists at the ICMR say the strength of a vaccine lies in it being a whole-inactivated virus — that means a larger surface area of the virus is visible to the immune system and thereby a wider range of antibodies are produced. However, the evidence so far is that antibodies from all vaccines are largely targeted at the spike protein, or the operative region where the virus binds to the cell; therefore, more does not necessarily mean better. What remains to be tested? A challenge governing all vaccines is that it must induce a calibrated response from the immune system — just enough so that antibodies guard against a future, actual infection and not so much that too many weakly neutralising antibodies (aiding a condition called antibody-dependent enhancement) are produced.  The latest Covaxin study clarifies that it is a promising candidate to be tested in large trials. Vaccine efficacy can only be done via a phase-3 trial that compares it in different sets of the population||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/testing-vaccines-against-sars-cov-2-variants/article33707076.ece
31 January 2021||GURUGRAM,||Delhi, Gurugram police file FIR against Tharoor, senior scribes||An FIR has been registered by the Gurugram police against Congress MP Shashi Tharoor and six senior journalists, including Rajdeep Sardesai and Mrinal Pande, on charges of sedition, promoting enmity and criminal conspiracy, among others, under the Indian Penal Code for posting “malafide, defamatory, false and misleading” tweets, accusing the Delhi police of killing a farmer during the tractor parade on the Republic Day. The FIR registered under Sections 120B, 124A, 153A, 153B and 505 (2) of the IPC at the Cyber Crime police station on Thursday also names Quami Awaz’s Zafar Agha and The Caravan’s Paresh Nath, Anant Nath and Vinod K. Jose. ‘Well-timed conspiracy’ According to the FIR, the accused posted instigating tweets and deliberately circulated fake news falsely accusing the Delhi police of the murder of a person driving a tractor during the violence on Republic Day. It also said the accused, in a co-ordinated and well-timed conspiracy, started misinformation campaign that it were the Delhi police who had shot dead a protesting farmer. “This was clearly done with an intent to engineer large-scale riots and religious tension amongst different communities. This particularly assumes much significance as the ramifications of such riots and religious tensions would affect a sensitive state sharing international border. The accused persons have deliberately, without any authentication, fact-checking and verifying purposefully posted fake, misleading and wrong information to instigate violence amongst the protesters, the farmers community in general and to add fuel to fire in the current protest for their own political and personal advantage,” said the FIR. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Central) Jasmeet Singh said that a complaint was received at IP Estate police station against the accused for tweets made from their respective Twitter handles wherein “they posted fake, misleading and wrong information regarding unfortunate death of the tractor driver in accident to instigate violence amongst protesters”. The police claimed that they all “tried to imply that the death of the farmer was caused by the violence committed by the Delhi Police under directions of the Central government during the tractor parade by protesting farmers on Republic Day”. The police said that tweets by the accused were re-tweeted that can “cause mutiny amongst the ranks of ignorant people, causing panic and violent rebellion, thereby inducing citizens to commit offences against the state or against the public tranquillity”. Probe under way Mr. Singh said that a probe is under way. Delhi Police spokesperson said that a total of 38 case have been registered till now in the matter related to farmers’ rally and 84 people have been arrested. In a late development, Mandeep Punia, a reporter contributing to the Caravan, was detained by the police on Saturday. Details on the reasons were awaited till press time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/delhi-gurugram-police-file-fir-against-tharoor-senior-scribes/article33707359.ece
31 January 2021||January 31 2021 00:00 IST,||Who should not take COVID-19 vaccines?||The story so far: On January 14, two days before India began the massive inoculation drive for COVID-19, the Health Ministry released a note on precautions and contradictions for the vaccines cleared so far, Covishield and Covaxin. Both India-made vaccines had emergency use approval and one of the points the circular clarified is that shots are to be given only to those 18 years and above. What are the other specifications? The Health Ministry note (https://bit.ly/3oB04p8) said there should ideally be a gap of at least 14 days between a COVID-19 vaccine shot and other vaccines. It said it was not permitted to interchange the COVID-19 vaccines: under the two-dose regime the second dose should be of the same vaccine which was administered the first time around. Further, the vaccines should be administered with caution in persons with a history of any bleeding or coagulation disorder (clotting factor deficiency, coagulopathy or platelet disorder). While the existing fact sheets of both companies indicate that people on blood thinners should “inform their health-care provider” (Covishield, https://bit.ly/2MByQ4H) or that “it is not advisable to take the vaccine in this condïtion” (Covaxin, https://bit.ly/3cnRVBY), the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) Director-General Balram Bhargava on Thursday at a Health Ministry press conference said the vaccine is safe for people on blood thinners. He said both the manufactures of the vaccines had approached the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) for revision of this contraindication on their fact sheets. Dr. Bhargava said, “Blood thinners are of two categories — antiplatelets and anticoagulants. For those on antiplatelets like aspirin the vaccine causes no problem but with those on anti-coagulants in these patients the tendency to bleed is much higher. This is also a relative contraindication and the anticoagulant can be stopped a day or two before administering the vaccine.” The Health Ministry has advised special precaution for vaccine use in persons with a history of any bleeding coagulation disorder and added that other vaccine-specific contraindications may apply as new information becomes available.  Should pregnant women take it? The Health Ministry advisory says pregnant and lactating women should not be given either vaccine for now. Pregnant and lactating women have not been part of any COVID-19 vaccine trial so far, it said. People who have an allergic reaction to the first dose of the vaccine, immediate or delayed, should not take the second dose. For those who develop an allergy or other symptoms, the second dose can be taken in four to eight weeks after recovery. This includes persons with active symptoms with SARS-CoV-2 infection and others acutely unwell. Also SARS-CoV-2 patients who have been given the anti-SARS-CoV-2 monoclonal antibodies or convalescent plasma have been advised a deferral.  What about people who are ill? For acutely ill or hospitalised patients due to any illness, vaccination can be deferred for four to eight weeks after recovery. Covaxin in its fact sheet specifies that beneficiaries should inform vaccination providers before getting the vaccine if they are on regular medication for any illness. Covishield notes that people who are allergic to any of the ingredients specified in the vaccine should not take it. It says if a beneficiary has a serious adverse reaction to the first dose he should stop the process.  The Health Ministry has said that other vaccine-specific contraindications may apply as new information becomes available||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/who-should-not-take-covid-19-vaccines/article33707078.ece
31 January 2021||January 31 2021 00:00 IST,||What does ‘green tax’ mean for vehicle owners?||The story so far: Union Transport Minister Nitin Gadkari has announced his Ministry’s approval of a ‘green tax’ on vehicles of specified vintage, as a means of dissuading people from using polluting vehicles. Among the major features of the measure is a 10%-25% additional green tax on the road tax payable by commercial transport vehicles that are older than eight years at the time of fitness certification renewal, and for personal vehicles after 15 years. The policy provides exemptions for tractors, harvesters and tillers used in farms, hybrid, electric, ethanol, liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) and compressed natural gas (CNG)-powered vehicles, and a lower green tax for public transport vehicles such as buses; conversely, a higher additional 50% of road tax is proposed for vehicles in highly polluted cities, as well as differential tax based on fuel and vehicle type, such as diesel. Vehicles of government departments and public sector units that are older than 15 years are to be deregistered and scrapped. Green tax funds are to be kept in a separate account to help States measure pollution and tackle it. State governments must now comment on the proposal. The policy is scheduled to come into force on April 1, 2022 (https://bit.ly/3pCcSNA). Does scrapping old vehicles carry big benefits? India has been working on a scrappage policy for years that could, on the one hand, give a boost to the automobile industry and related businesses by stimulating demand, and lead to recovery of steel, aluminium, plastic and so on for recycling, on the other. Newer vehicles conforming to stricter emissions and fuel efficiency standards are more environment-friendly, and have modern safety features. In 2016, India notified the Corporate Average Fuel Economy (CAFE) Standard for passenger vehicles to boost efficiency. Those with not more than nine seats and weighing less than 3,500 kg were covered from April 1, 2017. The average fuel consumption standard is given by the Power Ministry’s Bureau of Energy Efficiency (BEE) as less than 5.49 litres per 100 km (https://bit.ly/3acj34k). A second round of tighter efficiency norms is scheduled for 2022. Separate standards for light, medium and heavy commercial vehicles exist. CAFE also regulates CO2 emissions, while other pollutants such as carbon monoxide, oxides of nitrogen and sulphur are covered by Bharat Stage fuel standards. The benefits from vehicle replacements can be gauged from Transport Ministry data: commercial vehicles making up 5% of the vehicle fleet but contribute an estimated 65-70% of total vehicular pollution. The Centre provided funds under the Jawaharlal Nehru National Urban Renewal Mission (JNNURM) to State governments to augment bus fleets, and help the recession-hit bus industry in 2009. Globally, accelerated vehicle replacement schemes have been used in several countries. The most notable were those in Europe, besides the high-profile, $3 billion “Cash for Clunkers” or CARS (or Car Allowance Rebate System) programme in the U.S. after the 2008 recession. The official evaluation of the U.S. scheme was that it led to an average mileage efficiency increase of 58%, and upgraded vehicles generally were high on environmental benefits such as lower air pollution. Some critics say the U.S. scheme was not carefully targeted to primarily help those who could not afford a replacement. The BEE estimates that higher efficiency norms could result in a fuel use reduction of 22.97 million tons by 2025 in India. Is the proposed policy for scrappage workable? In 2015, as the Transport Ministry was drafting it, Mr. Gadkari said the idea was to give a certificate to owners selling off old vehicles of specified age, which could be redeemed for a discount of Rs. 30,000 to Rs. 50,000 for new passenger vehicles. For a commercial vehicle, the benefits including taxes would be an estimated Rs. 1.5 lakh. This idea did not progress, however, and among those who expressed reservations on high costs was NITI Aayog. The Aayog was concerned that some sections may not be in a position to retire old vehicles because of the high capital cost. The proposals in earlier drafts also envisaged tax discounts for those who exchanged old motors for new ones. The present initiative, however, has the limited objective of nudging the owners of older vehicles to sell them off rather than pay a green tax penalty. Without sufficient incentive or penalty, and careful targeting of vehicles with knowledge of their condition, a tax penalty could be less of a disincentive to commercial vehicle owners, since the tax would be far lower than its resale value and earnings potential; there would be no compulsion to retire it. Continued operation of the vehicles would defeat the clean air objective and bring no cheer to the automobile industry. What are the options available to tweak the policy? For a clean-up, commercial transport vehicles are of highest concern: on fuel efficiency, emissions and safety. The Centre could offer a green new deal with financial options such as loans and grants to smaller operators to scrap their junk vehicles, while escalating the green tax annually to achieve the nudge effect. A second stimulus to bus companies could help green the fleet and cut pollution. Small operators such as autorickshaws could be offered low-interest loans, particularly to move to electric vehicles.  The benefits from vehicle replacements can be gauged from Transport Ministry data: commercial vehicles make up 5% of the vehicle fleet but contribute an estimated 65-70% of total vehicular pollution||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/what-does-green-tax-mean-for-vehicle-owners/article33707080.ece
31 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘No man’s land’ created at Singhu border||A day after clashes broke out between protesting farmers and alleged locals at the Singhu border, a ‘no man’s land’ was created between the first barricade installed by the police and the first stage set up by the farmers. The locations are over 2 km apart. The entire area is heavily guarded by both the police and farmers, ensuring no ‘miscreants’ enter. Four layers of checking has been set up by the police. Any person trying to enter the area has to provide an ID. In most cases, people who weren’t allowed entry were given an alternate route from inside the fields instead. At the beginning of the protest site, farmers — including those who had been injured during clashes on Friday — holding sticks guarded the periphery and parked tractors as their own barricades tied with ropes. Guarding entry points “The police are doing their job and we are doing ours. We will ensure that no person with any wrong intention comes here. Our elders are guarding the entry points as they will get to know if someone is disguised as a farmer,” said 38-year-old Kulvir Singh of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC), from Tarn Taran, while nursing his fractured left hand. Recalling Friday’s clashes, he said that he was serving langar when ‘locals’ entered the site, damaged their tents and washing machines, before throwing stones. At least 15 protesters, including a senior citizen, suffered severe injuries. The farmers claimed that the ‘locals’ who had clashed with them on Friday came back again on Saturday but were driven away. ‘Ambulances blocked’ Injured farmers also alleged that security personnel weren’t letting in ambulances. “We had called for an ambulance around 9 a.m. and it hasn’t come till 12.30 p.m. This is inhumane,” said 23-year-old Prabhjit Singh, who suffered an injury above his right eye during the violence. “I am alone here and my parents back home got worried but they told me to continue the struggle till we succeed,” he added. Farmers of the KMSC said that they would stand guard 24 hours in shifts. Stage management committee of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha also said that they have stepped up vigil. “Over 800 volunteers on tractors and motorcycles are checking the site at night and we have ordered all the groups to send 30 volunteers every day,” said Amreek Singh, Bharat Kisan Union (Jalandhar) district pradhan, adding that they brought women residing at the KMSC side to their side and provided shelter and safety. Devinder Singh, 32, who has come from Chandigarh said that looking at a picture from Friday in which a police officer’s shoe was on a farmer’s face, he was reminded of George Floyd who was killed by a police officer in the U.S., leading to massive protests. A senior police officer said that they have been patient with the protesters for the last two months but January 26 violence “was the limit”. “As of now, there will be no movement in no-man’s land — not of protesters and their sympathisers and not of any locals. This will be a security hold area,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/no-mans-land-created-at-singhu-border/article33707352.ece
31 January 2021||January 31 2021 00:00 IST,||Google exit threat||The story so far: Australia is working on a law that seeks to make Internet platforms Google and Facebook pay news media companies for displaying their content as well as linking to their content. Following the publication of its draft, last year, Facebook said such a law could force it to block Australian news content on its feed. Last week, just over a month after Australia introduced the legislation in Parliament, Google said it will shut down its search engine there if the law becomes a reality, prompting Prime Minister Scott Morrison to say, “We don’t respond to threats.” What is the basis for this law? The broad idea has been around for a few years now. In its 2019 report, Digital Platforms Inquiry, the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC), the country’s competition regulator, noted that there was a fundamental imbalance in the power between news media and internet platforms. Specifically mentioning Google and Facebook, the report said these platforms had “substantial bargaining power in relation to many news media businesses.” Very few platforms have the billion-plus-user base or the financial strength of a Google or Facebook. On the other side are millions of individual publishers, none close to being any match for the scale of the top tech platforms. It also highlighted that media regulation hardly applied to platforms, though they have been increasingly playing much the same role as the media. The last two decades have also seen the tremendous rise of the platforms and sharp decline of the traditional news media, which forms the context in the report. The Australian government, reportedly sensing how important it was to have a strong and independent media environment in a democracy, asked the ACCC to come up with a draft code, which it did last July. After some changes, the Treasury Laws Amendment (News Media and Digital Platforms Mandatory Bargaining Code) Bill was introduced in December last year (https://bit.ly/2MiDkgD). The biggest players in Australia’s news media business, including Rupert Murdoch’s News Corp and Nine Network, have batted for such a law. How does the Bill seek to correct the imbalance? What is being proposed is a mandatory mechanism, under which news media companies will get to negotiate with Facebook and Google regarding payment for their content. If parties – digital platforms and news media – cannot arrive at a negotiated agreement about remuneration, an arbitral panel “will select between two final offers made by the bargaining parties.” Further, the Bill provides for a 14-day notice that platforms need to give publishers regarding any change in their algorithms. This is important because changes in platform algorithms have a significant impact on the referral traffic that publishers receive, and consequently affects their business. Isn’t this a drastic departure from how platforms have worked with publishers? Yes. This is one of those rare interventions by a government in publisher-platform relationships. Platforms perform an important function in a digital world that is filled with an unimaginably huge amount of content and information, and into which there is an unceasing flow of new content every second. They help users discover content in this vast information heap, either by way of search or via a friend’s feed, for instance. This is also why publishers need platforms. For many news publications, even well-established ones, Google and Facebook are the source of much of their traffic. Publications often worry about faring well on Google and Facebook. They also worry about keeping pace with algorithmic changes. But the publisher-platform relationship has rarely ever been about money. It has almost always been about tools and strategies for publishers to fare well on the platforms. What is Google’s stand? Google is not just against the idea of paying for the links but is also critical of the proposals on arbitration and algorithmic changes. In its blog, Google has said: “Right now, no website or search engine in Australia pays to connect people to other sites through links… The Code undermines one of the key principles of the open internet people use every day.” Further, it does not agree to the allegation that it is responsible for the decline in newspaper revenue. Shutting down its search engine in Australia is a real option because Google has taken such a step in the past. In 2014, Google shut its News Service in Spain, when the government introduced a law to make it pay a licence fee to use news content. Google shut down its Chinese search engine in 2010. In France, it has been forced by law to strike deals with publishers. The EU copyright rules, which France has given force to, “allow publishers to demand a fee from online platforms showing extracts of their news,” says a Reuters report. It isn’t clear on what basis the remuneration has been calculated. Google has proposed a different solution. It goes by the name, Google News Showcase, a licensing arrangement with publishers across the world, toward which it plans to spend $1 billion globally in the next three years.  What is being proposed in the new law is a mandatory mechanism, under which news media companies will get to negotiate with Google and Facebook regarding payment for their content||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/google-exit-threat/article33707082.ece
31 January 2021||New Delhi,||BJP ‘goons’ attacked farmers, claims AAP||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Saturday alleged that “BJP goons” attacked farmers at Singhu and Tikri borders and that they were not locals. The party further said that the BJP and the Delhi police “scripted” the violence on Republic Day. AAP chief spokesperson Saurabh Bharadwaj claimed the BJP has suspended Internet on the borders to “hide” the truth of their “assault” on the protesting farmers.  “The police and the BJP together scripted the violence of January 26 and the days after. BJP leaders are the greatest anti-nationals and cases of sedition must be registered against them, and the NIA should probe their leaders,” he said. The leader said that from the time the BJP government came to power there have been several protests by students, Dalits, businessmen, lawyers and now farmers. “The BJP government plays the same script against all these protests. Whenever somebody protests against the BJP, the party calls them anti-nationals,” he said.  Mr. Bharadwaj alleged that just before January 26, the BJP set up new camps near the protest sites. “The police allowed these people to set up camps and those camps were run by BJP agent Deep Sidhu,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bjp-goons-attacked-farmers-claims-aap/article33707350.ece
31 January 2021||NEW DELHI,||Langar services face the brunt of protests, violence||Many langar services at the Singhu border are facing trouble getting supplies, especially water and disposables, farmers said on Saturday. They complained that the supplies are being stopped at several points. Harjinder Singh, 47, from Amritsar who has been running ‘kheer langar’ for over a month and a half said they were running short of wood to light fire for cooking and had to walk three kilometres to bring it, which delayed the cooking. “People who are bringing us milk and cylinders are being threatened and stopped by the security officials,” he said, adding that he doesn’t blame the police as they’re getting orders from “their bosses in the government”. Santok Singh, 70, from Hoshiarpur who has been running a langar since the protest started, said that they are running out of disposables which they were getting from Haryana and Punjab. “We are running out of water bottles and plates which we use in langar. We need about 6,000 every day and are left with only 4,000 now. The police are stopping our people from coming here. They still somehow manage to come,” he said. Lack of help Another problem the langar sewas are facing is lack of help from nearby villages. Mast Ram, 30, from Haryana’s Jind, who runs a langar with at least four dishes on offer, served only pulses and rice on Saturday because he didn’t get help. “The children who helped with cleaning utensils and cutting and chopping, and the elders who would cook are not coming in out of fear. All this January 26 and 29 incidents have been done to create fear among people. The kids are telling me that their parents are scared to send them here and they don’t feel safe,” he said. He added that there are rumours floating around that crowd has lessened here and protesters are going back but that’s not true. “Crowd at the protest site was massive because locals roamed around for food. There are hardly any locals now,” he said. A few protesters on Saturday also carried out a march to reassure people that protesters are here to stay. “We are carrying out a tractor march across the protest site at the Singhu border to show people that no one is going back and we’re all here to stay till the laws are repealed,” said 23-year-old Amandeep Kaur Sandhu from Moga. On Friday and Saturday, scores of tractors came in especially from Haryana.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/langar-services-face-the-brunt-of-protests-violence/article33707356.ece
31 January 2021||Ghaziabad,||BKU lodges complaint against BJP MLAs||The Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) has lodged a complaint at Ghaziabad’s Kaushambi police station against BJP MLAs Nand Kishore Gurjar and Sunil Sharma for being allegedly present at the protest site on Thursday and inciting their supporters to indulge in violence with the farmers protesting at the Ghazipur border. In the complaint, Digambar Singh, president of the youth section of the BKU held the MLAs responsible for beating farmers, removing their tents, and causing damage to the vehicles. Circle Officer (Indirapuram) Anshu Jain said they were verifying the charges before registering an FIR. Mr Gurjar had written a letter to the Home Minister on Wednesday where he described BKU national spokesperson Rakesh Tikait and other farmer leaders as “atankwadi” (terrorists). BJP sources said the senior leadership was not happy with the conduct of the MLAs and an explanation might be sought from them. Ranjeeta Dhama, chairman of the Loni municipality, has written a letter to CM Yogi Adityanath that Loni MLA Mr. Gurjar was working against the interest of the party. BKU media in-charge Dharmendra Malik said the Gurjar community is with the farmers and if Mr. Gurjar took the decision in his individual capacity, then the BJP should take action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bku-lodges-complaint-against-two-bjp-mlas/article33707357.ece
31 January 2021||CHANDIGARH,||AAP leader wants Punjab govt. to keep farmers safe||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Saturday accused the BJP of suppressing the ongoing farmers’ movement on the Delhi borders and demanded from the Punjab government to provide police security to the struggling farmers. AAP’s Punjab unit co-incharge Raghav Chadha alleged that it was on the behest of the BJP that farmers are being attacked in a bid to intimidate them to vacate the protest sites on the Delhi borders. Suppressing movement “The continuous attacks on our ‘annadatas’ [food producers] from the last few days and the unfortunate incident that occurred at the Red Fort on January 26 has established the role of the BJP of suppressing the farmers’ movement. It has also proved the intention of the BJP, that they will attack the farmers, intimidate them and create disturbance in the farmers’ movement. With this, there is a clear safety and security threat to the farmers,” he said, addressing a press conference. “Delhi Police reports to the Centre government and under such circumstances, we cannot expect them to protect our farmers,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/aap-leader-wants-punjab-govt-to-keep-farmers-safe/article33707349.ece
