28-04-2021||Bhopal||Vaccination suspended for two days in MP due to Phase 3 dry run; Mumbai faces shortage||Vaccination centres in Madhya Pradesh will remain suspended on Thursday and Friday to conduct dry runs for the third phase of the vaccination drive, which will begin starting May 1 for people aged above 18 years.“All vaccination sessions will remain suspended in Madhya Pradesh on April 29 and April 30 so that planning, training and dry run can be undertaken for the inoculation drive for people between 18 years and 44 years of age,” Madhya Pradesh government official associated with the vaccination drive was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Madhya Pradesh which is facing a surge in cases has so far vaccinated more than 800,000 people. The state logged 12,758 fresh cases of coronavirus on Wednesday taking the tally to 538,165. Madhya Pradesh along with neighbours Maharashtra and Uttar Pradesh is facing an acute crisis as several hospitals in its major cities are reeling under an oxygen crisis. The death toll in the state has reached 5,424 with the death of 105 patients on Wednesday. Indore and Bhopal continue to remain most affected by Covid-19. Madhya Pradesh has 92,773 active cases of Covid-19.The Greater Mumbai Municipal Corporation also said that vaccination will be suspended due to insufficient vaccine stocks across 40 private centres on Thursday. The civic body said that 33 private vaccination centres will vaccinate beneficiaries eligible only for a second dose. Maharashtra, which had earlier announced that it will inoculate all its citizens for free said that the vaccination drive will be hampered due to the unavailability of sufficient doses of vaccines. The state recorded 985 deaths on Thursday, the highest since the onset of the pandemic. Maharashtra had earlier also flagged vaccine shortage and raised the issue with the Centre demanding more doses of vaccine. The Centre on Thursday said that states and Union Territories have at least one crore vaccine doses left at their disposal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/vaccination-suspended-for-two-days-in-mp-due-to-phase-3-dry-run-101619629320706.html
28-04-2021||Bhopal||Treat vaccination against as national duty: Madhya Pradesh home minister||As Covid-19 cases surged in Madhya Pradesh, state Home Minister Narottam Mishra on Wednesday appealed to people to treat vaccination as the national duty, saying the vaccine is the only permanent solution against coronavirus."Lockdown, mask, sanitizer, corona curfew are all temporary arrangements, the vaccine is the permanent solution and I urge people especially youth to consider it as their national duty," Mishra told reporters as registration for free inoculation for the people between 18 and 44 years got underway.He also urged people not to attack doctors, paramedical staff, nursing staff and policemen in the event of the death of any person as they are putting themselves at grave risk for the safety of the citizens.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/treat-vaccination-against-as-national-duty-madhya-pradesh-home-minister-101619605870247.html
