06-01-2021||World||Indian-origin man jailed for hacking into computers of 600 women||Essex-based Akash Sondhi, who hacked into the computer accounts of nearly 600 young women to exploit them for his gratification has been sentenced to 11 years in prison for blackmail, voyeurism and cybercrimes, officials said on Wednesday.The Crown Prosecution Service (CPS) said that after gaining unauthorised access to some of the accounts, Sondhi, 27, went further in his plan to control his victims and proceeded to blackmail and threaten them between December 2016 and March 2020. Sondhi told them if they did not send him nude images of themselves, he would post intimate images of them to their friends and family. Some of the young women complied with his requests and in at least six cases he carried out his threats.He gained unauthorised access to hundreds of social media accounts, in particular Snapchat. A number of his victims experienced serious emotional and psychological harm in the aftermath of his despicable actions, with one victim attempting suicide.Joseph Stickings of the CPS, said: “Akash Sondhi is an extremely manipulative man who inflicted emotional and psychological damage on young women while also getting gratification from their images and videos.”“Following a diligent and thorough investigation conducted by the Essex Police Cyber Crime Unit the CPS was able to build a comprehensive case of 65 counts reflecting the high level of his offending”. He added: “I would like to thank all of the women who bravely came forward to tell of their traumatic experiences at the hands of Akash Sondhi. Their accounts provided strong evidence and the CPS were able to create such a compelling prosecution case that Akash Sondhi pleaded guilty to all counts.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/indian-origin-man-jailed-for-hacking-into-computers-of-600-women/story-avF3i4jQyPhbhUYghjyfAP.html
06-01-2021||World||Joe Biden to name Merrick Garland as US attorney general||US President-elect Joe Biden will nominate Merrick Garland, a federal court chief judge, as attorney general, media reports said on Wednesday.Garland leads the DC Circuit Court of Appeals and was nominated by former President Barack Obama to the Supreme Court but Republicans, who controlled the Senate at the time, had blocked him.As attorney general, Garland will be Biden’s top law enforcement official.Garland will have to be confirmed by the Senate, which will not be difficult as Democrats are poised to take control of the chamber after the Georgia runoffs.The selection of Garland will resonate with Democrats after Senate Republicans led by Mitch McConnell prevented him from even getting a confirmation hearing for the high court in 2016.The move fills the last of the “big four” cabinet posts Biden had remaining, after earlier naming his choices for secretaries of defence, state and treasury.Obama nominated Garland in March 2016 for the Supreme Court vacancy created by the death of Justice Antonin Scalia. Although Garland received bipartisan praise, Republicans argued that any nomination should wait until after the American public had a chance to vote, even though the presidential election was still eight months away. Later, the Senate confirmed President Donald Trump’s choice for the seat, Neil Gorsuch.When Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg died in September last year, Republicans abandoned their argument about election-year nominations, pushing through a confirmation of Amy Coney Barrett days before the November 3 election.Garland, 68, is a veteran of the legal community and US justice department.He first served in the department as a special assistant in President Jimmy Carter’s administration before going into private practice. He returned to the department for a brief stint in 1989 as an assistant US attorney.In 1993, he became a deputy assistant attorney general in the department’s criminal division and then was promoted to be a top aide to the deputy attorney general.Garland oversaw high-profile domestic terrorism prosecutions, including for bombings in Oklahoma City and at the 1996 Atlanta Olympics.President Bill Clinton nominated Garland to be a judge on the US Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia, and he was confirmed in 1997. He became chief judge of the panel, which has influence second only to the Supreme Court, in 2013.Biden chose Garland after figures including former deputy attorney general Sally Yates, Democratic Senator Doug Jones and former Massachusetts Governor Deval Patrick had been talked about as candidates for the position.(With inputs from Agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/joe-biden-to-name-merrick-garland-as-us-attorney-general/story-4etr418oXks2lLhx8zUgfN.html
06-01-2021||World||UK Covid deaths, cases hit records as England starts third lockdown||For the first time since Covid-19 spread across the United Kingdom in early 2020, the daily death toll crossed 1,000 on Wednesday and new cases reached another high as England began its third six-week lockdown with Prime Minister Boris Johnson pinning hopes on mass vaccination.Official figures showed 1,041 people died in the last 24 hours and 62,322 new cases were recorded, with 30,451 patients in hospital, 2,645 of them on ventilators. Hospitals across the UK have been struggling to cope with new admissions.Johnson told a specially convened session of the House of Commons to pass legislation related to the new lockdown that the government had no choice but to clamp another lockdown due to the ever-rising numbers. Scotland, Northern Ireland and Wales have restrictions similar to the lockdown in England.He said: “(Alas), this mutation, spreading with frightening ease and speed in spite of the sterling work of the British public – has led to more cases than we have ever seen before, alas numbers that cannot be explained away by the meteoric rise in testing.“When the Office for National Statistics reports that more than 2% of the population is now infected, and when the number of patients in hospitals in England is now 40% higher than the first peak in April, it is inescapable that the facts are changing and we must change our response.”New centres have been established across the country for mass vaccination. Johnson saw the current phase as a “tough final stretch” that will hopefully end in the coming months when mass vaccination will prevent spread of the virus and its variant.Johnson said: “We are in a tough final stretch, made only tougher by the new variant – but this country will come together and the miracle of scientific endeavour, much of it right here in the UK, has given us not only the sight of the finish line but a clear route to get there.“After the marathon of last year we are indeed now in a sprint, a race to vaccinate the vulnerable faster than the virus can reach them. Every needle in every arm makes a difference”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-covid-deaths-cases-hit-records-as-england-starts-third-lockdown/story-qhynkyOHZ7hWR5kIPrMBUO.html
06-01-2021||World||Kim tells party congress that North Korea’s economic plan failed ‘tremendously’||North Korean leader Kim Jong Un said his five-year economic plan had failed to meet its goals “on almost every sector” as he kicked off a congress of the ruling Workers’ Party, state media KCNA reported on Wednesday. The rare political gathering, which Kim last hosted in 2016, has drawn international attention as he is expected to unveil a new five-year economic plan and address inter-Korean ties and foreign policy. The congress, attended by 250 party executives, 4,750 delegates and 2,000 spectators, comes just two weeks before US President-elect Joe Biden takes office. In his opening speech, Kim said the country had achieved a “miraculous victory” by bolstering its power and global prestige, referring to military advances that culminated in successful tests in 2017 of intercontinental ballistic missiles capable of striking the US mainland and a series of meetings with US President Donald Trump. But the five-year economic strategy unveiled in 2016 had failed to deliver, he said, urging North Korea’s greater self-reliance. “The strategy was due last year but it tremendously fell short of goals on almost every sector,” Kim said, according to KCNA.Kim had sought to accelerate economic growth and boost electricity supplies but U.N. agencies reported chronic power and food shortages, exacerbated by sanctions, the coronavirus pandemic and severe floods.While consolidating power with a series of military provocations and ruthless purges, Kim has been trying to build a “man of the people” persona by openly admitting some of his failures - once a taboo in a country that reveres an errorless, godlike leader. Kim was even seen shedding tears as he thanked people for their sacrifices at a military parade in October.“He seems to have made a strategic decision to admit economic failure as he can also blame the coronavirus,” said Shin Beom-chul, a senior fellow at the Korea Research Institute for National Strategy in Seoul. “By doing so, he would also seek to cement his image as a people-loving leader.” ‘Stable anti-virus situation’On the pandemic, Kim lauded party workers for ensuring “stable situations against the coronavirus from beginning to end.” “They had resolutely overcome difficulties in the face of an unprecedentedly prolonged, unparalleled global health crisis,” he added.North Korea has not officially confirmed any coronavirus infections, although it reported thousands of “suspected cases” to the World Health Organization. South Korean authorities have said an outbreak in the North cannot be ruled out as it had active trade and people movement with China before closing its border last January.Seoul’s Unification Ministry in charge of cross-border affairs said it hopes the meeting will provide a chance to foster peace and advance inter-Korean ties. KCNA said Kim will suggest “strategic and tactical policies” aimed at promoting reunification and foreign relations during the congress. Kim usually gives a New Year address which maps out blueprints for his diplomatic, military and economic policy but skipped it this year. Analysts said he will likely give a message once the congress is over. In KCNA images, no one was seen wearing masks and participants did not sit apart, unlike at some other recent public events. Kim was accompanied by top aides, including his sister and senior party official Kim Yo Jong, nominal head of state Choe Ryong Hae and Premier Kim Tok Hun. Lists of participants released by KCNA showed nearly 75%, or 29 of 39 leaders who took the podium have been replaced since the 2016 congress, as Kim sacked many of his father’s longtime confidants, weakened the powerful military and promoted relatively younger loyalists, including his sister.Experts expect further leadership changes to be announced over the remaining days of the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/kim-tells-party-congress-that-north-korea-s-economic-plan-failed-tremendously/story-r5Ugu6YrrNHsKt3gvnkBpJ.html
06-01-2021||World||Dems poised to take Senate as Congress meets to certify Biden win||A Democratic candidate is projected to win one of the two runoff elections in Georgia that hold the key to the Senate, and a fellow party nominee expanded his lead in the second race on Wednesday, setting up a potentially stunning upset defeat for Republicans in their stronghold.US Congress will hold a joint session later in the day to grant one final certification to President-elect Joe Biden’s victory. Republican lawmakers allied to President Donald Trump have announced plans to object to the certification, which will drag out what has been a largely ceremonial process but will not change the outcome, or reverse Biden’s election.Democrat Raphael Warnock defeated Kelly Loeffler, the sitting Republican senator, by more than 60,000 votes, while Jon Ossoff, the other Democrat, was ahead of David Perdue, the incumbent senator, by over 17,000, expanding his overnight lead and tightening his grip on the race.Warnock and Ossoff’s wins — if and when the second happens — will raise the number of Democrats in the Senate from current 48 to 50, splitting the majority in the 100-member chamber with Republicans. But with Vice-President-elect Kamala Harris’s tie-breaking vote as president of the Senate, Democrats will be in control.Democrat control of the Senate will complete a trifecta, with the House of Representatives and the White House already in the bag, starting January 20.With both chambers of Congress in Democratic control, Biden will have an easier time pursuing his legislative agenda. And the Senate win, on its own, will allow his nominees to be confirmed easily, especially those that Republicans were threatening to block.In response to the Georgia election outcome, Biden said: “Georgia’s voters delivered a resounding message yesterday: they want action on the crises we face and they want it right now. On Covid-19, on economic relief, on climate, on racial justice, on voting rights and so much more. They want us to move, but move together.”“It looks like we will emerge from yesterday’s election with Democratic leadership in the House and the Senate, and of course I’m pleased that we will be able to work with Speaker (Nancy) Pelosi and a Majority Leader (Charles) Schumer,” he said in a statement.“We were told we couldn’t win this election, but tonight, we proved that with hope, hard work, and the people by our side, anything is possible,” said Warnock in a brief victory speech. “May my story be an inspiration to some young person who is trying to grasp and grab hold of the American dream.”Warnock will be the first African American senator from Georgia. He is reverend of the historic Ebenezer Baptist Church of Atlanta, which was once led by Martin Luther King Jr, the civil rights leader. And Ossoff, a journalist and documentary filmmaker, will be the first Jewish senator from Georgia. Shortly before he overtook Perdue, his campaign said in a statement , “When all the votes are counted, we fully expect that Jon Ossoff will have won this election to represent Georgia in the United States Senate. The outstanding vote is squarely in parts of the state where Jon’s performance has been dominant. We look forward to seeing the process through in the coming hours and moving ahead so Jon can start fighting for all Georgians in the US Senate.”Outgoing President Trump was tracking the runoffs closely, but only to pounce on technical glitches and difficulties to bolster his baseless claims of election fraud as he continued to pursue his doomed efforts to overturn his defeat to Biden. “Looks like they are setting up a big ‘voter dump’ against the Republican candidates. Waiting to see how many votes they need?” he tweeted during a pause in counting.Trump remained largely focused on the upcoming certification of Biden’s victory by Congress at the joint session later in the day. Lawmakers allied to him intend to object to the certification, but do not have the numbers to block the certification or reject.The president and his allies have been pressuring vice-president Mike Pence, who will preside over the joint session, to reject the certification, overstepping his constitutional authority. Pence is reported to have conveyed to Trump at a meeting on Tuesday that he does not have the power to reject or return the certificates to the states. Trump issued a statement denying Pence said that to him, but, notably, Pence did not endorse the denial, not directly or through surrogates.“States want to correct their votes, which they now know were based on irregularities and fraud, plus corrupt process never received legislative approval,” Trump wrote in a tweet Wednesday morning, just hours before the start of the joint session. “All Mike Pence has to do is send them back to the States, AND WE WIN. Do it Mike, this is a time for extreme courage!”Trump’s own lawyer Jay Sekulow disagrees with the president. “Some have speculated that the vice president could simply say, ‘I’m not going to accept these electors. ‘I don’t think that’s what the Constitution has in mind. If that were the case, any VP could refuse any election,” he said on a radio show, according to CNN.Trump, who is consumed by an obsession to overturn his election defeat, will plough on nevertheless. He is addressing a rally in support of his baseless claims ahead of the joint session called the “Save America March”. He will reiterate his false claims of election fraud and will pile up more pressure on his vice-president, testing his unwavering loyalty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/dems-poised-to-take-senate-as-congress-meets-to-certify-biden-win/story-KZS5mULL1vpwddr05bvIJO.html
06-01-2021||World||Joe Biden celebrates Georgia win, looks to a united government||President-elect Joe Biden celebrated Democrat Raphael Warnock’s win in a Georgia Senate runoff election and said he was confident of another, calling the victories clear signs that voters want him to pursue his agenda while also seeking bipartisan consensus.“Georgia’s voters delivered a resounding message yesterday: They want action on the crises we face and they want it right now. On Covid-19, on economic relief, on climate, on racial justice, on voting rights and so much more,” he said Wednesday in a written statement. “They want us to move, but move together.”The American people, he said, “demand action and they want unity. I am more optimistic than I ever have been that we can deliver both.”Democrat Warnock has defeated Republican Senator Kelly Loeffler, the Associated Press reported, while Democrat Jon Ossoff appeared headed toward victory over Republican Senator David Perdue. If both victories are confirmed, the Senate will be evenly divided between the Republican and the Democratic caucuses, leaving Vice President-elect Kamala Harris to make tie-breaking votes.Biden said he’s pleased to be able to have Democratic majorities in both chambers of Congress, but stressed that the wins haven’t diminished his desire to draw Republican support for his plans.“I’m also just as determined today as I was yesterday to try to work with people in both parties — at the federal, state, and local levels — to get big things done for our nation,” he said.Biden reiterated his desire to see Congress pass another Covid-19 relief bill.He also called on Senate leaders to move ahead on the confirmation processes for his Cabinet nominees, especially those who would have key national security roles, even before the Georgia results are certified. “My nominees for critical national security positions at State, Defense, Treasury, and Homeland Security have bipartisan support and have been confirmed by the Senate before,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/joe-biden-celebrates-georgia-win-looks-to-a-united-government/story-cvB51dNWQDuqgzRmKhCJCM.html
06-01-2021||World||Banks, industrials lift Dow, S&P 500 on possible Democrat sweep in Georgia||The Dow and the S&P 500 rose on Wednesday, with investors piling into economy-linked financial and industrial stocks on bets that a Democrat-controlled Senate would lead to more fiscal stimulus and infrastructure spending.Financials hit a 1-year high, while materials , industrial and energy sectors climbed over 1%.Banks shares jumped about 5%, tracking a sharp rise in the benchmark 10-year U.S. Treasury yield.Democrats won one U.S. Senate race in Georgia and led in another, moving closer to a sweep in a deep South state that would give them control of Congress and the power to advance President-elect Joe Biden’s policy goals. A final outcome is not expected until later on Wednesday.“There will be beneficiaries of a Democratic sweep and there are companies in the Nasdaq - technology and healthcare - that could potentially face some short-term headwinds when it comes to higher taxes and more regulation, impacting their bottom lines,” said Tim Chubb, chief investment officer at GIRARD in West Chester, Pennsylvania.The tech-heavy Nasdaq slipped 0.7% as behemoths Apple Inc , Microsoft Corp, Amazon.com Inc, Google-parent Alphabet Inc and Facebook Inc dropped between 1.6% and 2%.Tesla Inc was the only major technology stock trading higher.At 10:06 a.m. ET, the Dow Jones Industrial Average rose 260.13 points, or 0.86%, to 30,651.73, the S&P 500 gained 9.67 points, or 0.26%, to 3,736.53 and the Nasdaq Composite lost 88.86 points, or 0.69%, to 12,730.10.The small-cap Russell 2000 index jumped 2.8%, hovering near a record high.Hopes of a vaccine-powered economic recovery in 2021 pushed Wall Street’s main indexes to record highs in late-December, with sectors that had previously lagged, including banks, industrials and energy, fuelling the rally.“You are seeing more evidence of a rebound in value over growth, and it feeds into the debate as to whether investors should pile into more cyclicals, which are co-related with value, or stick to bigger players within the growth space given that valuations in some cases are quite extreme,” said Sebastien Galy, macro strategist at Nordea Asset Management.“Market is quite nervous about its position in large tech.”Invesco Solar ETF gained about 6.7% on expectations that clean energy companies will benefit under a Democrat-controlled Congress, while bets on decriminalizing marijuana at the federal level lifted ETFMG Alternative Harvest ETF up 8.4%.AmerisourceBergen Corp gained 7.4% after the U.S. drug wholesaler said it would buy Walgreens Boots Alliance’s drug distribution business for $6.5 billion to expand in Europe. Dow component Walgreens rose 2.6%.Advancing issues outnumbered decliners by a 1.7-to-1 ratio on the NYSE and by a 1.8-to-1 ratio on the Nasdaq.The S&P 500 posted 46 new 52-week highs and no new low, while the Nasdaq recorded 197 new highs and three new lows.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/banks-industrials-lift-dow-s-p-500-on-possible-democrat-sweep-in-georgia/story-0mOdmjWXOhjdDCphdp6nMJ.html
06-01-2021||World||Trump calls US election process ‘worse than third world countries’, urges Pence to show ‘courage’||US President Donald Trump on Wednesday called the electoral process of the United States “worse than that of third world countries” as Democrats were on the cusp of controlling the Senate. Democrat Raphael Warnock won one of Georgia’s two Senate runoffs and the other Democrat, Jon Ossoff, has taken a lead over his Republican rival David Perdue.Taking to Twitter, Trump said that Democrats are just “toying” with Perdue, claiming that they have as many ballots as necessary to win the election. “These scoundrels are only toying with the @sendavidperdue (a great guy) vote. Just didn’t want to announce quite yet. They’ve got as many ballots as are necessary. Rigged Election!” tweeted the outgoing US president. “They just happened to find 50,000 ballots late last night. The USA is embarrassed by fools. Our Election Process is worse than that of third world countries!” he wrote in another tweet, which was flagged by Twitter as disputed. They just happened to find 50,000 ballots late last night. The USA is embarrassed by fools. Our Election Process is worse than that of third world countries!Also Read | Trump claims voter fraud in Georgia Senate runoffs, Republican candidate calls for ‘transparency’Trump also urged vice president Mike Pence to help him overturn the election results. Claiming that the US states want to “correct” their votes, he asked Pence to show “extreme courage” to thwart the Electoral College vote. According to a CNN report, Pence on Tuesday told Trump that the vice president does not have the authority to block certification of President-elect Joe Biden’s win.Trump’s allies in Congress are planning to raise objections on the vote count and delay the certification of the Electoral College. The House of Representatives and the Senate will separately debate for up to two hours over the objections, if any, which will be followed by a vote.However, they need a majority of lawmakers in both chambers voting in their favour to uphold the objections. Such a scenario is virtually unlikely as Democrats control the House and top Senate Republicans, including Senate majority leader Mitch McConnell, have already recognised Biden as the next US president.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-calls-us-election-process-worse-than-third-world-countries-urges-pence-to-show-courage/story-qPT0KBf2nP6dS4yQXyA79M.html
06-01-2021||World||Jair Bolsonaro blasts Brazil’s syringe makers over soaring prices||President Jair Bolsonaro accused syringe makers on Wednesday of pushing up their prices after the government failed to buy hundreds of millions of syringes via auction for its Covid-19 vaccination drive, leading it to requisition surplus supplies.“Prices soared after the Health Ministry expressed an interest in buying syringes,” Bolsonaro wrote on social media, adding that the government had suspended buying until prices return to normal.Brazil’s three main syringe manufacturers met with Bolsonaro on Tuesday and agreed that each would supply 10 million, along with needles to cover the initial stages of the country’s planned vaccinations.“It was a requisition order and the companies have to obey it. This was almost a confiscation, but the government will pay,” said Paulo Henrique Fraccaro, head of Brazil’s medical supplies and equipment industry lobby group ABIMO.Fraccaro said the government decided to requisition syringe supplies after it failed to draw bids last week at an electronic auction session. It had sought to buy 331 million syringes but purchased just 8 million, or 2.5% of its target, after it set reference prices that were below companies’ bids.The Health Ministry offered 13 centavos (.13 reais) per syringe in its Nov. 29 tender, but most companies were asking for 22-48 centavos (.22-.48 reais), depending on the characteristics, Fraccaro said.While prices for the requisitioned syringes had not been agreed, Fraccaro said the government planned to open a second tender in one or two weeks with prices “adjusted” to today’s manufacturing reality.Brazil has the worst Covid-19 death toll outside the United States, but has lagged neighbors Chile and Argentina in starting inoculations against the new coronavirus.Bolsonaro wrote that Brazil’s states and municipalities have enough supplies to begin vaccinations, which are expected to start by the end of the month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/jair-bolsonaro-blasts-brazil-s-syringe-makers-over-soaring-prices/story-S9gYq6ZXZgYzsCJUPommzL.html
06-01-2021||World||Saudi oil exports to US at zero for first time in 35 years||The U.S. didn’t import any Saudi crude last week for the first time in 35 years, a reversal from just months ago when the Kingdom threatened to upend the American energy industry by unleashing a tsunami of exports into a market decimated by the pandemic.The absence of deliveries follows a slump in crude shipments to the U.S. that left the desert kingdom in October. Since tankers from Saudi Arabia take about six weeks to reach import terminals on either the west or Gulf coasts, the drop is only starting to show up now. This is the first week America had no deliveries based on available weekly data through June 2010 from the U.S. Energy Information Administration. A longer history of monthly figures shows this is the first time there were no Saudi imports since September 1985.Earlier this year, the oil producing countries of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries and ten non-OPEC allies agreed to cut production by a record 9.7 million barrels a day after a brief production free-for-all that saw prices plunge. The supply cuts have helped shore up crude, even as fuel consumption struggles to return to pre-pandemic levels. In the past month, oil prices have risen on hopes that demand could improve as a number of vaccines have been announced to combat the health crisis.But America is still in the throes of the pandemic, with record infections in many states forcing new restrictions, while other parts of the world are recovering. U.S. gasoline consumption plunged to the lowest in years during the usual high-demand Thanksgiving holiday period.The demand loss is so acute some U.S. refineries have been idled. “Throughput is still below where it was before the crisis because of reduced domestic demand. So why send more here when Asia is where recovery has been clear,” said Sandy Fielden, director of oil and products research at Morningstar Inc.For Saudi Arabia, cutting shipments to the U.S. is the quickest way to telegraph to the wider market that it’s tightening supply. The government is alone in publishing weekly data on crude stockpiles and imports, which carry enormous influence among oil traders. Other big petroleum consuming nations, like China, publish less timely information about oil supplies.In May and June, Saudi deliveries to the U.S. more than doubled from a year ago. The onslaught prompted Senator Ted Cruz, a Texas Republican, to tweet in April: “My message to the Saudis: TURN THE TANKERS THE HELL AROUND.” American refiners received the final installment of that bumper load in early July.Since then, Saudi oil shipments to the U.S. have steadily declined. Just two weeks ago, they delivered only 73,000 barrels a day to customers, preliminary U.S. Energy Information Administration data show.Still, Saudi Arabia won’t be giving up on supplying the U.S. anytime soon even during this pandemic. Tanker tracking data monitored by Bloomberg show shipments from the kingdom rising in November. Even so, after the first of those ships arrives off the west coast this week, there is a long gap until the next one is due on Dec. 23.“The Saudis will be mindful about not losing any more U.S. market share to other sellers not if they can help it,” said Morningstar’s Fielden. That’s why despite the low seasonal U.S. demand, the Saudis cut prices for January shipments to its American buyers, he added.In the short term, the election of Joe Biden could benefit Saudi Arabia. While transitioning away from hydrocarbons would have a long-term impact on oil demand, hopes to revive the 2015-Iranian nuclear deal would pave the way for more Iranian oil to flow globally. “Those sales will displace Saudi oil and that would mean Arabia would have to turn to the U.S. to maintain sales,” said Andy Lipow, president of Lipow Oil Associates LLC in Houston.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/saudi-oil-exports-to-us-at-zero-for-first-time-in-35-years/story-SRCCnJzFyquMSgB04pNikL.html
06-01-2021||World||Democrats close to Senate control fuelled by black voter turnout||Democrats were poised to take control of the US Senate on Wednesday after high turnout among Black voters boosted their candidates in two runoff elections in Georgia.Challenger Raphael Warnock beat incumbent Senator Kelly Loeffler to take one of the two seats. The race between Jon Ossoff and one-term Senator David Perdue was still too close to call, but Ossoff was leading by more than 17,000 votes and claimed victory.Two Democratic wins from a once reliably Republican state would be a rebuke of President Donald Trump’s incessant claims of voter fraud in the November election in Georgia, which he lost narrowly to President-elect Joe Biden.Republican turnout didn’t keep up with Democratic enthusiasm, driven largely by coordinated efforts to get Black voters to the polls led by former Georgia lawmaker Stacey Abrams.Benchmark 10-year US Treasury yields rose past 1% for the first time since March as traders evaluated the implications of potential Democratic control of the Senate, such as additional fiscal stimulus and tax increases. US stocks were mixed.In a video statement, Ossoff, 33, spoke as if he were headed to Washington, though no one had called his race against Perdue, 71, a first-term Republican senator and former corporate executive.“I want to thank the people of Georgia for participating in this election,” he said. “Whether you were for me or against me, I will be for you in the US Senate.”To secure control of the chamber, Democrats need to win both seats, which would split the Senate 50-50 between Republicans and the Democratic caucus, with Vice President-elect Kamala Harris casting tie-breaking votes.Warnock, 51, is the senior pastor at Ebenezer Baptist Church in Atlanta, the position once held by Martin Luther King Jr. He will become Georgia’s first Black US senator.“This is a wonderful day here in Georgia and I believe in America. I am an iteration and an example of the American dream,” Warnock told CNN on Wednesday.The AP VoteCast survey of more than 2,700 verified Georgia voters found that Black voters made up 32% of the electorate — more than the 29% they were in November. And those voters opted overwhelmingly for the Democrats, by margins of 93% or more.Of the 115,000 voters who voted in the runoff but skipped the November election, 40% were African-American, according to the Democratic voter data firm TargetSmart.Perhaps no single person is more associated with Georgia’s shift to the Democrats than Abrams, who gained national attention with her unsuccessful run for governor in 2018.Abrams’s efforts date back a decade, when she was minority leader of the Georgia House of Representatives, working to challenge restrictive voter laws and energize minority voters.“Being a battleground means you have to fight for victory,” she told CNN Tuesday night. “Republicans, for 20 years, took for granted their successes.”Senate control, paired with the Democrats’ narrow majority in the House, would give Biden a unified U.S. government, smoothing the path for his nominees and allowing him to implement major pieces of his agenda.Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer, who stands to replace Mitch McConnell as majority leader if Ossoff’s race is called in his favor, issued a statement calling it “a brand new day.”“For the first time in six years, Democrats will operate a majority in the United States Senate -- and that will be very good for the American people,” Schumer said, noting that the country was enduring “one of the greatest crises we’ve ever faced.”It could take days to get a final tally for the outcome of the race between Perdue and Ossoff. State election official Gabriel Sterling told CNN there were around 65,000 ballots still to be counted but said they were mostly from Democratic areas. About 17,000 military and overseas ballots, and some domestic absentee ballots, can still be counted as late as Friday.Ossoff’s margin is larger than the 11,779-vote lead that helped Biden ultimately flip the state. But the narrow results will almost certainly spark legal challenges or a recount that also could delay a final determination of Senate control. The current margin would allow Perdue to request a recount if Ossoff is declared the winner, and he has indicated he will do so.Georgia Republicans didn’t turn out in high enough numbers to tamp down overwhelming Democratic participation, said Kerwin Swint, director of the school of government at Kennesaw State University. Republicans needed 65% of the election day vote.And some Republicans in the state pointed fingers at Trump for damaging their chances.“When you tell people your vote doesn’t count and has been stolen and people start to believe that – and then you go to the two senators and tell them to ask the secretary of state to resign and trigger a civil war inside the Republican Party when you need Republicans to unite, all of that stems from his decision-making since the Nov. 3rd election,” said Sterling, a Republican who has aggressively refuted Trump’s unfounded claims of fraud.Loeffler showed no sign of conceding. “There are a lot of votes out there, as y’all know,” she told supporters. “And we have a path to victory and we’re staying on it.”Trump Questions ResultsThe uncertainty over the Senate comes as Congress meets in a joint session on Wednesday to count Electoral College votes that will ratify Biden’s win, even as Trump urged Vice President Mike Pence and lawmakers to overturn the results based on baseless claims of a “rigged” election.Warnock called the move a “distraction” that could have cost Republicans the Georgia Senate seats.“It’s a distraction. These senators know better, and the people that I’m talking to all across Georgia are concerned about their lives,” he said. “We need to be passing the $2,000 relief checks. Instead, the politicians are focused on their concerns, who’s winning and who’s losing.”Fraud ClaimsFighting for party control of the Senate made the races important enough. But against the backdrop of Trump’s baseless claims of vote fraud and corruption by Georgia elections officials -- topped by his extraordinary hour-long phone call demanding that officials “find” enough votes to overturn the presidential election -- the races also became a test of Trump’s continued hold on the GOP.If Perdue manages to pull out a win, Biden would face a still-GOP-controlled Senate largely unwilling to back many of his plans to develop a federal response to controlling the coronavirus pandemic, deliver more economic stimulus, or raise taxes on corporations and the wealthy.Trump AlliesIn almost every way, Perdue’s and Loeffler’s calculations were to stick tightly to the president, or at least not alienate Trump voters and the party’s base. The duo both called for Georgia Secretary of State Brad Raffensperger to resign after he dismissed Trump’s allegations of voter fraud, and both have backed the effort in the Senate to challenge the election results when Congress certifies the November election on Wednesday.Both Republican senators described their foes as “dangerously radical” and warned Ossoff and Warnock would hand over power in Washington to “socialists” like Senator Bernie Sanders and Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez.Ossoff and Warnock depicted their wealthy Republican opponents as out-of-touch multimillionaires. Loeffler’s husband, Jeffrey Sprecher, recently became a billionaire and is the chief executive officer of Intercontinental Exchange, the parent company of the New York Stock Exchange. Loeffler co-owns the Atlanta Dreams WNBA team and some players have campaigned against her.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/democrats-close-to-senate-control-fuelled-by-black-voter-turnout/story-F4Ld7nF5C6jMICgDQBaPeK.html
06-01-2021||World||Israel convicts Palestinian activist of illegal protest, assault, lawyer says||An Israeli military court on Wednesday convicted a Palestinian rights activist of offences in the occupied West Bank, his lawyer said, in a case that Amnesty International described as politically motivated.The military did not immediately provide Reuters with the Ofer military court’s verdict against Issa Amro of the Palestinian city of Hebron, and arguments over sentencing will await a further hearing on Feb. 8.Amro denied the charges, which included protesting without a permit, obstructing Israeli soldiers’ activities in the flashpoint city of Hebron and assaulting a Jewish settler.Amro, 40, founded an activist group that regularly protests against settlement construction in Hebron. Under heavy Israeli military protection, around 1,000 settlers live there among 200,000 Palestinians.“It doesn’t make sense to punish someone for non-violent resistance,” Amro told Reuters. “The Israeli military system exists only to oppress Palestinians and restrict freedom of speech.”Amro was convicted on six of 18 charges against him, in incidents that occurred between 2010 and 2016, his lawyer, Gaby Lasky, said.Lasky said it was hard to predict whether Amro would face prison time, but that a Palestinian in a similar case received a 10-month term.Amnesty International said the charges against Amro were “politically motivated and linked to his peaceful work in exposing Israel’s human rights violations”.The group has also condemned as “disgraceful” charges brought against Amro by the Palestinian Authority in the West Bank.Amnesty said the PA has accused him of “disturbing public order” and “insulting higher authorities” over Facebook posts in 2017 critical of Palestinian leaders.Amro said his next Palestinian court hearing is on Jan. 20.Most countries view settlements Israel built on West Bank land captured in a 1967 war as illegal. Israel disputes this, citing biblical and historical connections to the territory, as well as security needs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/israel-convicts-palestinian-activist-of-illegal-protest-assault-lawyer-says/story-UMNrwv7Y0wCH0KD8aTxkGJ.html
06-01-2021||World||Stacey Abrams: Lawyer, voting rights activist who turned Georgia blue||Stacey Abrams lost a gubernatorial race to Republican Brian Kemp in 2018 by a narrow margin of 50,000 votes, in an election that was marred by widespread allegations of voter suppression. In her campaign closing speech, Abrams announced the creation of Fair Fight Action, a grassroots organisation to bolster voter registration efforts and counter the unfair voter suppression tactics which Abrams said led to her loss.In November last year, when Joe Biden flipped Georgia, a state which hadn’t elected a Democrat president in more than two decades, credit went to Stacey Abrams and many other women of colour like her, who have been organising their community since Abrams was a minority leader in Georgia’s House of Representatives. Although Abrams alone cannot be credited for the record number of voter registration through years of political canvassing, she has become the most popular face of a movement propelled by scores of Black women. These same women successfully delivered another resounding victory on Wednesday in the Georgia senate runoffs. Lawyer, voting rights activistStacey Abrams is a native of Mississippi, which much like Georgia was one of the seven Confederate states that fought against the United States of America in the civil war, resisting abolition of slavery. Abrams, who is a lawyer, Democrat politician, and a voting rights activist, was elected as the minority leader in Georgia’s lower chamber in 2011, and thus began her work of strengthening the Democratic party’s base in the state.The most pivotal moment in Abram’s political career was the infamous 2018 gubernatorial race, where Brian Kemp a staunch Trump ally, who was serving as the secretary of state of Georgia at that time, deregistered more than 1.4 million voters between 2012 and 2018, with some 700,000 voters being deregistered in 2017 alone. Since then Abrams has repeatedly emphasised that Kemp’s tenure as the secretary of state, whose office has access to voter registration data, conflicted with this campaign for governor, and has refused to acknowledge Kemp as the rightful winner. Abram’s role in turning Georgia blueJoe Biden was able to flip Georgia by a razor-thin margin of 0.24% votes in the state which had voted for Donald Trump in the last election. Abrams along with the women who worked with her in her grassroots campaign have registered close to 800,000 voters from the Latino, Black, and Asian communities, all minority groups, and have been able to successfully turn the registration into votes. Abrams told the New York Times that before her 2018 bid for governor she drove to 150 of Georgia’s 159 counties, trying to figure out where the party needs to become more viable. “But when I got into those places, there was always someone there to meet me — who had been waiting for someone to come to help connect and help them build this network,” Abrams told NYT. “So whether it was finding Black voters in South Georgia, and working with Black immigrants in Gwinnett, or working with the Asian-Americans and Pacific Islanders community, or going to North Georgia and meeting with more and more Latino voters,” she said. The network Abrams talked about is the one which delivered a Democratic victory in a deep south state. Abrams and her grassroots organisers were not just able to encourage Black voters, they even turned many college-educated suburban White women into Biden voters, even though they had traditionally voted for Republicans. Abram’s commitment to making every vote count is visible on her Twitter account. In the race up to the Georgia runoffs, Abrams not only encouraged people to show up to the polls, but she also educated and continuously reminded them to check in with voter helplines to make sure their ballots were counted. Abrams is reportedly planning to run for governor in 2022. She is undoubtedly one of the most influential politicians in America today who is not in office. Donald Trump in his recently leaked infamous phone call to Georgia’s secretary of state, asking him to overturn the election results, can be heard saying “Stacey Abrams is laughing about you. She’s going around saying, ‘These guys are dumber than a rock.’”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/stacey-abrams-lawyer-voting-rights-activist-who-turned-georgia-blue/story-V0L2UMC0cn79Wx5KbtvWhP.html
06-01-2021||World||Facebook drops ‘likes’ button from public pages||Facebook Inc has dropped the “likes” button from its redesigned public pages used by artists, public figures and brands, the social media company said on Wednesday.Facebook Pages will only show followers and have a dedicated News Feed where users can join conversations, interact with peers and engage with fans, the company said in a blog post. “We are removing Likes and focusing on Followers to simplify the way people connect with their favorite Pages,” Facebook said about the redesign.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/facebook-drops-likes-button-from-public-pages/story-MWAzva1WXm9dHp52mvdcuK.html
06-01-2021||World||Iran tests ‘suicide’ drones amid its tense standoff with Donald Trump||Iran said it successfully tested long-range unmanned “suicide” aircraft during its first major drone exercises this week, amid a tense standoff with the U.S.The drones, also known as loitering munitions, were flown for 1,400 kilometers (870 miles) near the Gulf of Oman, the semi-official Iranian Students’ News Agency reported, quoting the army’s public relations office. They have a range of 4,000 kilometers, it said.The two-day drills started on Tuesday and also involved successful tests of quadcopter drones capable of dropping small cluster munitions, ISNA said.The military exercises took place as Iran vowed to defend itself against any U.S. military action in the final weeks of Donald Trump’s presidency. Tensions between the long-time foes intensified around the Jan. 3 anniversary of the assassination of Iran’s top general in a U.S. drone strike.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/iran-tests-suicide-drones-amid-its-tense-standoff-with-donald-trump/story-giXOr4HCgZkpTH6fAFxRZN.html
06-01-2021||World||Australia brings forward vaccine rollout by two weeks to early March||The Australian government on Wednesday said it is bringing forward the expected rollout of its first coronavirus vaccine by two weeks to early March to ensure the health and safety of the people and frontline workers.Health Minister Greg Hunt said the national vaccination campaign will start earlier than expected. “We’ve been able to bring our vaccination commencement schedule forward from the middle of the year, to the second quarter, to late March and now to early March, and I’m not ruling out further steps,” the ABC News reported, quoting Hunt. “Safety trumps everything” and it is the government’s priority to ensure that there was public confidence in any and all vaccines rolled out in Australia, he said.Hunt said the first doses of the vaccine would be delivered to frontline workers and those with exposure to international travellers, and that the medical advice on what order the vaccine would be delivered to other priority groups and the rest of the population was “still being finalised”.“It’s not a surprising approach, it’s a very common-sense of approach — you simply follow the vulnerability and the risk of either transmission or the consequence of infection,” he said.Australia has secured 10 million doses of the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine, apart from just under 54 million doses of the University of Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine, with 50 million doses being produced onshore by CSL in the state of Victoria, which has already started manufacturing doses.Both Pfizer and AstraZeneca vaccines still need to be approved by the Therapeutic Goods Administration and expected to start inoculations in late March.Australia has so far recorded 28,791 Covid-19 cases and 909 deaths due to the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/australia-brings-forward-vaccine-rollout-by-two-weeks-to-early-march/story-6v3s28xH7LX3XEuqwQhjdO.html
06-01-2021||World||Timeline: How EU filled its basket in Covid-19 vaccine shopping spree||The European Union (EU) has conducted a monthslong shopping spree to secure vaccines to battle the Covid-19 pandemic.The following is a timeline of its strategy.Contracts for allIn June the EU set up a team of experts from the bloc’s 27 member states to negotiate together with vaccine makers the advance purchase of Covid-19 shots, with a budget of about 2 billion euros ($2.4 billion).That followed criticism by member states of Germany, France, Italy and the Netherlands, which that month had reached a deal with AstraZeneca on the supply of up to 400 million doses of its vaccine candidate.EU countries not involved in the deal said that could have triggered a race among EU governments for vaccines. The solution was to secure them together and to commit not to run parallel talks with pharmaceutical firms.The bloc immediately started negotiations with Johnson & Johnson and Sanofi, and then with BioNTech/Pfizer CureVac and Moderna .EU officials said vaccine makers were selected on the basis of progress in their trials, of their ability to produce shots for Europe quickly and of the technology they used - in a bid to diversify and give Europe as many different technologies as possible given that some vaccine trials may fail.The first deal made was with AstraZeneca in August for 400 million doses, largely converting the agreement initially sealed by Germany, France, Italy and the Netherlands. At that time, the vaccine developed by the British-Swedish firm together with Oxford University was conducting large-scale, Phase III trials.Pfizer and BioNTech were also carrying out Phase III trials in August, but the EU reached a deal with them only in November - for 300 million doses - after they said trial results showed their vaccine was highly effective and safe.In July, the EU had refused an offer by BioNTech/Pfizer to order 500 million doses as it found the suggested deal too expensive, according to an internal EU document seen by Reuters.The Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine is based on messenger RNA (mRNA) technology. The first to be authorised in Western countries, it poses significant - and unique - logistical challenges because it needs to be stored at ultra-cold temperatures.Germany, in what appears to be a breach of the EU agreements, conducted parallel talks for the supply of 30 million additional doses from BioNTech, which is based in Germany and had received German funds.A German health ministry spokesman said this week the deal was sealed in September, two months before the EU contract, although the timing of deliveries is still unclear.Sanofi dealBefore sealing the contract with Pfizer and BioNTech, the EU decided to close a quicker deal with France’s pharmaceutical giant Sanofi in September for 300 million doses.At that time, the Sanofi vaccine, being developed with British firm GlaxoSmithKline, was at just Phase I and II of trials. In December, the two companies announced their trials were not successful and needed at least another year of tests .The EU gave Sanofi 324 million euros ($400 million) in a non-refundable down payment to secure 300 million doses. It had paid AstraZeneca 336 million euros ($414 million) in a similar arrangement, EU officials told Reuters.The Sanofi/GSK vaccine is based on lab-made proteins designed to trigger an immune response, an established technology already used in vaccines against other viruses.After Sanofi, the EU signed a third deal with U.S. pharmaceutical giant Johnson & Johnson in October for the supply of up to 400 million doses of its vaccine which is based on a viral vector and was already at Phase III when the deal was closed. The company was given a down payment of nearly 350 million euros ($432 million).CurevacThe contract with Pfizer and BioNTech, the EU’s fourth, was signed on Nov. 11. Days later, the bloc announced an agreement with German firm CureVac for up to 405 million doses. At that time, CureVac had not yet started Phase III large-scale trials.It is unknown how much money was given in a down payment to the German biotech company, which had already received EU funds to develop vaccines. Germany’s state-owned KfW development bank is a major shareholder in CureVac.A sixth deal with US biotech firm Moderna was signed by the EU on Nov. 25, after successful trial results were announced. It envisages the supply of up to 160 million doses.Both Moderna’s and CureVac’s vaccines are based on the mRNA technology, the same used in the Pfizer-BioNTech shot.The EU is now in talks with U.S. firm Novavax for 200 million doses of its vaccine and with Pfizer for an additional contract of 50/100 million doses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/timeline-how-eu-filled-its-basket-in-covid-19-vaccine-shopping-spree/story-epRfeI2ihjkxNqpPPbVIYK.html
06-01-2021||World||‘Deeply concerned’: UK on Iran resuming 20% uranium enrichment||Britain said it was “deeply concerned” by Iran’s commencement of 20% uranium enrichment on Jan. 4, in a joint statement with France and Germany.“We strongly urge Iran to stop enriching uranium to up to 20% without delay,” the countries said on Wednesday.Iran resumed 20% uranium enrichment at an underground nuclear facility, the government said on Monday, breaching a 2015 nuclear pact with major powers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/deeply-concerned-by-iran-s-20-uranium-enrichment-says-uk/story-ilMi08RXzmKMprYntf45wO.html
06-01-2021||World||Portugal’s president self-isolating after contact with Covid-19 case||Portugal’s President Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa said on Wednesday he would self-isolate after being in contact with someone who tested positive for the novel coronavirus.The 72-year-old is campaigning to win a second term as the country’s president in an election on Jan. 24. He has several presidential debates scheduled before then.In a statement shared on his official website, Rebelo de Sousa’s office said the contact was with a member of Casa Civil, a body of specialists who provide consultation services to the president.Rebelo de Sousa is waiting for the health authority to decide if the exposure was high risk and for how long he will have to stay at home, the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/portugal-s-president-self-isolating-after-contact-with-covid-19-case/story-4YOxYoK2G13eDBF21GfGSN.html
06-01-2021||World||UK police to get stricter with fines for Covid-19 lockdown breaches||The UK police will get stricter with its enforcement of the new nationwide lockdown that legally came into force on Wednesday and have urged the public to fully comply with the rules, which call for people to stay at home except for limited reasons to be outdoors. Scotland Yard said people in “obvious, wilful and serious” breach of the restrictions are increasingly likely to face fines or fixed penalty notices, which range between 200 pounds and 10,000 pounds. “In practice this will mean that all those attending parties, unlicensed music events or large illegal gatherings, can expect to be fined – not just the organisers of such events. Similarly, those not wearing masks where they should be and without good reason can expect to be fined – not reasoned with,” the Metropolitan Police said.The public is being alerted that there are fewer “reasonable excuses” for people to be away from their home in the latest regulations, except for one form of daily exercise, for essential shopping or for medical reasons, and officers will get more “inquisitive” as to why they see someone out and about. The Met police also warned protesters planning to gather in central London this week that it will not tolerate any breaches and enforcement action will be taken.“After 10 months of this pandemic the number of people who are genuinely not aware of the restrictions and the reasons they are in place is vanishingly small,” said Deputy Assistant Commissioner Matt Twist, who leads the Met’s response to the Covid pandemic.“Our first duty as police officers is to preserve life. The critical situation our NHS (National Health Service) colleagues are facing and the way the new virus variant moves through communities, means we can no longer spend our time explaining or encouraging people to follow rules where they are wilfully and dangerously breaching,” he said.A new digital fines system means it is quicker for police officers to issue fines on the spot. Since its launch last month, the Met Police said that more people have been reported for fines than in the rest of the year combined.“I hope it is not necessary for this particular trend to carry on but if people continue to break the rules, putting themselves, their families and their communities at greater risk, our officers are ready to act robustly,” added DAC Twist.The Police Federation of England and Wales also called on the public to do their part to keep each other safe as the new lockdown measures come into force amid a marked surge in infections, largely down to a new highly transmissible variant of coronavirus.“With the new variant of the Covid -19 virus spreading so quickly it comes as no surprise that a new lockdown has been put in place. More people are contracting the virus and more are dying from it. Our hospitals are struggling to cope: these are tough times,” said John Apter, the National Chair of the Police Federation.“It’s essential that people heed the new rules and stay at home unless absolutely necessary,” he said.The warnings come as a woman who threw a New Year’s Eve party in west London for more than 100 people was reported to the Met Police for a maximum fine of GBP 10,000, called a fixed penalty notice.“The organiser, and those who attended, deliberately breached the restrictions and decided that the rules did not apply to them. We will continue to take tough action against those who think they are above the law and put others in danger with this sort of reckless behaviour,” said Acting Inspector Ganesh Rasaratnam, from the Met Police’s Central West Basic Command Unit.“The large majority have behaved admirably and should be proud of themselves for helping play their part as we all fight this health crisis,” he said.According to the latest data from the Office for National Statistics (ONS), it is thought one in 50 people in private households in England had the virus last week – rising to one in 30 in London.At a Downing Street news conference on Tuesday, UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson said he had “no choice” but to impose the new lockdown, with the number of patients in hospitals 40 per cent higher than in the first peak of the pandemic last year.Under the measures akin to the first lockdown in March 2020, people in England will only be able to go out for essential reasons, exercise outdoors will be allowed only once a day, and all restaurants and outdoor sports venues must close.Covid vaccine deployment minister Nadhim Zahawi said new daily vaccination figures for the UK – which will be released for the first time from next Monday – will show there has been a “significant increase” in the number of people who have received the jabs.The government has set the target to vaccinate all the over-70s, the most clinically vulnerable and frontline health and care workers by mid-February – around 13 million people – as the key route out of the lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-police-to-get-stricter-with-fines-for-covid-19-lockdown-breaches/story-GZN2qWFwZPQ6xPJ0GpNg0I.html
06-01-2021||World||UK leader to use ‘every second’ to vaccinate the vulnerable against Covid-19||U.K. Prime Minister Boris Johnson pledged that his government would use “every available second” to shield the elderly and the vulnerable from the virus rampaging across Britain as he told Parliament on Wednesday why the country needed to return to a Covid-19 lockdown.Lawmakers, who were recalled from their Christmas recess early to discuss the measures, are expected to approve the new rules because there is a wide consensus on the need for tougher restrictions to control soaring new infections.“There’s a fundamental difference between the regulations before the House today and the position we faced at any previous stage, because we now have the vaccines that are our means of escape,’‘ Johnson said. “And we will use every available second of the lockdown to place this invisible shield around the elderly and the vulnerable.”The U.K. is in a maelstrom of rising Covid-19 infections, hospitalizations and deaths. Britain reported more than 60,000 new daily coronavirus cases for the first time on Tuesday. More than 391,000 people have tested positive in the past seven days, up 44% from the previous week.Rising infections are also putting an unprecedented strain on the nation’s healthcare system. Hospitals in England are currently treating over 26,000 coronavirus patients, 40% more than during the first peak of the pandemic last April.When he announced the stay-at-home order on Monday, Johnson said it wouldn’t lifted before mid-February. By that time, the government hopes to have given one dose of a Covid-19 vaccine to about 13 million people who are most at risk, potentially allowing some relaxation of the restrictions.“After the marathon of last year, we are indeed now in a sprint, a race to vaccinate the vulnerable faster than the virus can reach them, and every needle in every arm makes a difference,’‘ Johnson told the House of Commons on Wednesday.The session came amid anger over the chaos in the government’s education strategy during the pandemic.As part of the latest lockdown, Johnson ordered schools across England to close, backtracking on the government’s pledge to keep them open. Some lawmakers are seeking assurances that schools will reopen in mid-February.“It’s been a huge shambles,” Robert Halfon, chairman of the House of Commons’ education committee, told the BBC. “This has got to stop. The government has got to offer consistency, a consistent policy that doesn’t change every couple of days.”Johnson ordered the national lockdown in England after public health officials warned that the rising infection rates threatened to overwhelm the National Health Service. On Tuesday, the Office for National Statistics estimated that 2% of people in England were infected with Covid-19 in the week ending on Jan. 2.The government is ramping up its mass vaccination program after regulators authorized a second vaccine. The U.K. is using both the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine and one made by Oxford University and AstraZeneca. Both require two shots, but British authorities have made a decision to delay the second shot — shifting it from 21 days after the first to up to 12 weeks later — in order to vaccinate as many people as quickly as possible. That decision is being hotly debated by governments and scientists around the world.As of Monday, the NHS had vaccinated 1.3 million people across the U.K. The government plans to have almost 1,000 vaccination centers operating across the country by the end of this week, Johnson said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-leader-to-use-every-second-to-vaccinate-the-vulnerable-against-covid-19/story-2fUcvvIj5qmackdAk33NCI.html
06-01-2021||World||Over 1 million people in Russia vaccinated with Sputnik V Covid-19 vaccine||The Sputnik V vaccine has been administered to more than 1 million people in Russia, according to the official vaccine Twitter account.Russia became the first country to register the world’s first Covid-19 vaccine on August 11, named after Russia’s first satellite. According to an earlier statement by Russian President Vladimir Putin, Sputnik V is over 95 per cent effective.Taking to Twitter, Russia’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs (MFA) cited Putin saying that some health specialists have claimed that the vaccine’s protection level reaches up to 96-97 per cent.Meanwhile, Sputnik V will be “highly effective” against the new strain of coronavirus found in Europe, said Kirill Dmitriev, Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Russian Direct Investment Fund, the company which codeveloped the vaccine in December.However, people will have to observe extra precautions during the 42 days it takes for the Sputnik V coronavirus vaccine to become effective, New York Post quoted Tatiana Golikova, Russian Deputy Prime Minister as saying.The world Covid-19 caseload has crossed 86 million cases, as per the latest updates by Johns Hopkins University. The total number of deaths reported due to coronavirus stands at 1,870,856.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/over-1-million-people-in-russia-vaccinated-with-sputnik-v-covid-19-vaccine/story-MITIVNazm0OitqfXctaNtJ.html
06-01-2021||World||Netherlands play catch-up in Europe’s patchy Covid-19 vaccine drive||A nurse received the first Covid-19 shot in the Netherlands on Wednesday, kicking off one of Europe’s last vaccination programmes for the coronavirus as the European medicines regulator considered approving a second vaccine.Approval of the Moderna vaccine would be a big boost for Europe’s hopes of curbing a disease that has infected over 85 million people globally and killed nearly 1.9 million since the first cases were identified in China in December 2019. Europe began its vaccination drive on December 27 but it has had an uneven start as cases continue to surge across the continent and worldwide, with the World Bank warning that rising infections and delays in vaccine distribution could limit the global economic recovery to just 1.6% this year.Authorities are also scrambling to contain two more infectious variants of the virus detected in South Africa and Britain which have driven a surge in cases.The Dutch government has faced a public outcry after being left behind in the race to defeat the viral pandemic, and finally launched its vaccination drive on Wednesday morning.DuSanna Elkadiri, a 39-year-old nurse who looks after dementia patients at a care home in the south of the country, received a shot of the vaccine developed by Pfizer and BioNTech.“This is the beginning of the end of this crisis,” Health Minister Hugo de Jonge said at a brief ceremony.Prime Minister Mark Rutte said the Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine used by the Netherlands had received regulatory approval sooner than expected and that his government had expected a vaccine developed by Oxford University and AstraZeneca to be approved first, reducing the Dutch authorities’ flexibility.So far, the Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine is the only one approved by the European Medicines Agency (EMA) though Moderna’s vaccine -- which is easier to store and transport -- is expected to become the second to win its endorsement later on Wednesday.The roll-out has been a test for Brussels’ ability to unify Europe amid political pressure to speed up the process.Some EU member states were frustrated at the length of time the EMA took to decide on the Pfizer-BioNTech shot, leaving it lagging the United States, Britain, Israel and Switzerland in approving and administering the first vaccines.The regulator has given a conditional marketing approval, rather than the ultra-fast emergency use approval issued by Britain, which it says requires more detailed study of the data.The two-dose Moderna vaccine has already been rolled out in the United States and Canada, and Israel this week become the first country outside North America to grant authorisation. It was about 95% effecive at preventing illness in clinical trials that found no serious safety issues.GOVERNMENTS UNDER FIREChina’s Sinovac Biotech Ltd has also developed a Covid-19 vaccine, but Beijing is still taking aggressive measures to prevent another wave of the disease that has killed 4,634 people in China.Chinese authorities on Wednesday imposed travel restrictions and banned gatherings in the capital city of Hebei province, which surrounds Beijing.Beijing has sought to reshape the narrative about when and where the pandemic began, with top officials highlighting studies they say show the disease emerged in multiple regions. It has also rejected accusations of wrongdoing or mishandling of the Covid-19 outbreak in the country. The head of the World Health Organization on Tuesday said he was “very disappointed” that China still had not authorised a team of international experts tasked with examining the origins of the novel coronavirus into the country. Chinese foreign ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying said the two sides were still in talks about dates and arrangements for the visit. “There’s no need to over-interpret this,” she said.Rolling out a vaccine quickly has not prevented other governments facing public criticism over their handling of the pandemic.Although Britain was the first country to approve and start rolling out the Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine, Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s government has been accused by political opponents of indecision after England began a new lockdown this week.The British parliament was recalled early to vote on the new lockdown measures on Wednesday. The French government has faced criticism after the national inoculation campaign got off to a slow start, hampered in part by red tape and President Emmanuel Macron’s decision to tread warily in one of the world’s most vaccine-sceptical countries.France is now stepping up its Covid-19 vaccine rollout and a third national lockdown should not be ruled out, Eric Caumes, head of infectious diseases expert at Paris’ Pitie-Salpetriere hospital, told BFM TV.Germany has decided to extend a nationwide lockdown until the end of this month and introduce tougher restrictions to try to curb the spread of the virus.But Finance Minister Olaf Scholz said he believed Europe’s biggest economy could hold out for a long time, adding that heexpected lower levels of government debt than after thefinancial crisis of 2008.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/netherlands-play-catch-up-in-europe-s-patchy-covid-19-vaccine-drive/story-AIUNohawMGebrsWr6NQXpO.html
06-01-2021||World||Germany urges patience with Covid vaccine rollout under fire||Chancellor Angela Merkel’s government pleaded for patience as it pushed back against criticism that Germany bungled the rollout of a Covid-19 vaccine.A shortage of doses at the start of the campaign was expected and stems from production bottlenecks rather than insufficient procurement, Health Minister Jens Spahn said Wednesday in Berlin.“We have to ask large parts of the population for patience,” Spahn said. “We’ve ordered enough, more than enough vaccines.”Like other European Union countries, Germany started its program with a shot jointly developed with Mainz-based BioNTech SE on December 27. The shortage will be eased by additional production capacity, including the start of a facility in Marburg in February that will lead to a “massive” gain in output, he said.A similar vaccine from US biotech Moderna Inc., which won backing from the European Medicines Agency on Wednesday, could further ease supplies. Distribution of the shot could start as soon as next week, Spahn said. The EU has locked up as many as 160 million doses, with Germany to get more than 50 million.A day after Merkel tightened and extended lockdown measures, she gathered top cabinet ministers in an effort to quell tensions within her government over claims the rollout has been too slow.Senior members of her Social Democrat partners, including Finance Minister Olaf Scholz, questioned Merkel’s strategy of ceding responsibility for procuring vaccines to the European Union. With a national election slated for September, the tension threatens to inject party politics into the country’s pandemic fight.At an ill-tempered meeting on Tuesday, Merkel and state leaders agreed to controversial limits on movement, sharpened restrictions on private gatherings and prolonged hard lockdown measures until at least Jan. 31. She also defended the vaccination strategy, saying more supply is coming soon.“In the second quarter, based on all that we know from the manufacturers, we will already have significantly more vaccine doses,” Merkel said Tuesday in Berlin. The EU has ordered “significantly more vaccine than is necessary” to inoculate everyone in the bloc.Underscoring the pressure facing Merkel’s government, Germany on Wednesday registered more than 1,000 Covid-related deaths for only the second time since the pandemic began. Contagion rates remain more than double a government target despite weeks of strict curbs.Scholz, the SPD’s chancellor candidate who attended the meeting, denied that his criticism was a campaign ploy.“This is about a very serious issue, whether we can properly protect the citizens of this country,” Scholz said in an interview with ARD television on Wednesday. “The most important thing, not just for today but in the future, is that we do everything to make sure as much vaccine as possible is made in Germany and Europe.”After a relatively mild outbreak in the spring, infections in Germany have doubled since the end of November to more than 1.8 million and deaths have surged above 36,000.Scholz said Germany, which is supporting businesses affected by the lockdown, has the financial resources to weather the crisis “for a long time.”Thanks to years of prudent budget policy, Germany’s debt as a percentage of gross domestic product won’t rise much above 70% and will quickly shrink again once the pandemic has receded, he told ARD.With hospitals filling up and concerns about a spike from the holidays still coming, authorities are worried about the pace of inoculations. But Germany is ahead of most other European countries.According to the latest data from the RKI public health institute, over 367,000 people have been immunized in Germany through 11 a.m. on Wednesday, about 0.4% of the population. That compares with around 1.5% in the US and nearly 2% in Britain, which both began vaccinating several weeks earlier, and about 0.3% in Italy.Spahn, a leading figure in Merkel’s Christian Democrats, has said he is hopeful everyone who wants a shot in Germany can get one by the summer.“If you look at some of our neighbors in the European Union, then the structures we’ve put in place are working pretty well,” he said. “I’m not saying everything is perfect, I’m not saying there isn’t room for improvement, but all in all it’s working well.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/germany-urges-patience-with-covid-vaccine-rollout-under-fire/story-OXQvr5ryljvEtJQwMRQsGJ.html
06-01-2021||World||EU calls for ‘immediate release’ of Hong Kong activists||The European Union called for the immediate release Wednesday of the 53 former lawmakers and pro-democracy activists who have been arrested in Hong Kong after being accused of violating a new security law.The mass arrests, including of former lawmakers, were the largest crackdown on Hong Kong’s democracy movement since the law was imposed by China last June to quell dissent in the semi-autonomous territory.EU spokesman Peter Stano told a press conference that the arrests send the “signal that political pluralism is no longer tolerated in Hong Kong.” He added that the security law is being used “to crush dissent and stifle the exercise of human rights and political freedoms.”Stano did not exclude the possibility of sanctions against China, saying that EU authorities and member nations are currently “thinking about the best measures to take to react.”Stano said the issue could be discussed during a meeting of the bloc’s foreign affairs ministers later this month but insisted unanimity among EU nations will be required to green light sanctions.The crackdown in Hong Kong took place only days after the European Union sealed a business investment deal with China despite concerns about the human rights situation in the country. EU Commission chief spokesman Eric Mamer separated the two topics, saying the EU is working with China “in a different way, in different areas.”China is the bloc’s second-biggest trading partner behind the United States, and the EU is China’s biggest trading partner. China and Europe trade on average over 1 billion euros ($1.2 billion) a day.“Of course we have a separate line of dialogue with China on the rule of law and democracy,” Mamer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/eu-calls-for-immediate-release-of-hong-kong-activists/story-ckPhX87GQqO9sDXBBzU1SO.html
06-01-2021||World||British judge rejects bail for WikiLeaks’ imprisoned Julian Assange||A British court on Wednesday refused a bail application moved by WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange, two days after an extradition request by the US government was blocked on grounds of his mental health and risk of suicide.Assange, 49, has been held in the Belmarsh prison in south-east London for the past 18 months after he was evicted from the Ecuadorian embassy, where he sought asylum for seven years. His earlier bail applications were also refused.His legal team moved another application after the extradition was blocked on Monday. US authorities have indicated that they would appeal against the extradition ruling. He is wanted in the US to face charges of espionage, hacking and leaking classified documents.Judge Vanessa Baraitser of the Westminster Magistrates Court ruled that “there are substantial grounds for believing that if Mr Assange is released today, he would fail to surrender to court and face the appeal proceedings,” as his supporters gathered in rain outside the court.Assange’s lawyers emphasised that he has new family ties in the UK with two children he had fathered with his partner, Stella Moris, and that he would be bailed to the couple’s home address. But the judge did not accept the arguments.Assange has been detained at London’s high-security Belmarsh Prison since April 2019, when he was arrested for skipping bail during a separate legal battle seven years earlier.Clair Dobbin, a British lawyer acting for the US, said Assange had shown he would go “to almost any length” to avoid extradition, and it was likely he would flee if granted bail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/british-judge-rejects-bail-for-wikileaks-imprisoned-julian-assange/story-8gPkMBm3xNiexKatj9lyYL.html
06-01-2021||World||EU agency approves Moderna’s Covid-19 vaccine||The European Union’s medicines agency gave the green light Wednesday to Moderna Inc.’s Covid-19 vaccine, a decision that gives the 27-nation bloc a second vaccine to use in the desperate battle to tame the virus rampaging across the continent.The approval recommendation by the European Medicines Agency’s human medicines committee -- which must be rubber stamped by the EU’s executive commission -- comes amid high rates of infections in many EU countries and strong criticism of the slow pace of vaccinations across the region of some 450 million people.“This vaccine provides us with another tool to overcome the current emergency,” said Emer Cooke, Executive Director of EMA. “It is a testament to the efforts and commitment of all involved that we have this second positive vaccine recommendation just short of a year since the pandemic was declared by WHO.”European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen welcomed the approval and added in a tweet: “Now we are working at full speed to approve it & make it available in the EU.”The EMA has already approved a coronavirus vaccine made by American drugmaker Pfizer and Germany’s BioNTech. Both vaccines require giving people two shots.Ahead of the meeting on the Moderna vaccine, the agency said in a tweet that its experts were “working hard to clarify all outstanding issues with the company.” It did not elaborate on what those issues were. Moderna also declined to comment.German Health Minister Jens Spahn — who has in the past been critical of the slow pace of the EMA — said he expected the Moderna vaccine to begin rolling out to EU nations next week. Germany would get 2 million doses in the first quarter and 50 million in all of 2021, Spahn told reporters in Berlin.“The problem is the shortage of production capacity with global demand,” he said.Early results of large, still unfinished studies show both the Moderna and the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccines appear safe and strongly protective, although Moderna’s is easier to handle since it doesn’t need to be stored at ultra-frozen temperatures.The United States, Canada and Israel have already approved use of the Moderna vaccine. The US gave it the green light for emergency use in people over 18 years on Dec. 18, followed by Canada five days later with an interim authorization also for people over 18. Israel authorized the vaccine on Monday.Moderna said Monday that it is increasing its estimate for global vaccine production in 2021 from 500 to 600 million doses. The company said it is “continuing to invest and add staff to build up to potentially 1 billion doses for 2021.”Both Moderna’s and Pfizer-BioNTech’s shots are mRNA vaccines, made with a groundbreaking new technology. They don’t contain any coronavirus – meaning they cannot cause infection. Instead, they use a piece of genetic code that trains the immune system to recognize the spike protein on the surface of the virus, ready to attack if the real thing comes along.The EU officially began giving out Pfizer-BioNTech vaccination shots on Dec. 27, but the speed of each nation’s inoculation program has varied widely. France vaccinated around 500 people in the first week, while Germany vaccinated 200,000. The Dutch were only beginning to give out vaccine shots Wednesday, the last EU nation to start doing so.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/eu-agency-approves-moderna-s-covid-19-vaccine/story-wS7QEW3XuxOGhIC5VseXHL.html
06-01-2021||World||European drugs authority meets again over Moderna’s Covid-19 vaccine||The European Medicines Authority (EMA) was meeting on Wednesday to decide on whether to approve Moderna’s Covid-19 vaccine after failing to reach a decision earlier this week.“The meeting of EMA’s human medicines committee (CHMP) to discuss Covid-19 vaccine Moderna has started,” the regulator said in a tweet.The CHMP called an unscheduled meeting on Monday to discuss Moderna’s vaccine but failed to reach a conclusion. The medicines authority did not specify at the time why it could not approve the vaccine, but on Tuesday said its experts were “working hard to clarify outstanding issues with the company”.The Dutch national medicines authority told Reuters it was preparing for both a positive decision on Wednesday and for a scenario in which a conclusion still could not be reached.The EMA has set a Jan. 12 deadline for whether to recommend Moderna’s vaccine. It recommended a Covid-19 vaccine from Pfizer and its German partner BioNTech on Dec. 21.A positive decision would mark the second regulatory authorisation for Moderna’s vaccine after the United States and further validation of its messenger RNA technology, just over a year since the first outbreak of the virus was identified in Wuhan, China.It was about 95% effective at preventing illness in clinical trials that found no serious safety issues.Since its rollout in the European Union began a week ago, hundreds of thousands of Europeans have received the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine. More than a million shots have been distributed in Britain in just under a month, and the uneven start of the campaign has led to criticism of health authorities in Germany and France, among others.The Netherlands on Wednesday start vaccinations, giving its first injection to a 39-year old care home nurse.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/european-drugs-authority-meets-again-over-moderna-s-covid-19-vaccine/story-WJpS2anH88LbNwbFTqbIMJ.html
06-01-2021||World||Explainer: Hong Kong mass arrests chill democracy movement||The sudden arrest of dozens of pro-democracy activists in Hong Kong, in the most sweeping use of a new national security law to date, is a clear sign of Beijing’s determination to rein in political opposition in the former British colony.The Wednesday morning roundup, widely condemned by Western government officials and human rights groups, will likely further chill an already dwindling protest movement in the semi-autonomous Chinese territory.What happened?Police detained about 50 people, far more than in previous cases under the 6-month-old national security law. Those targeted appeared to include all candidates who had run in an unofficial opposition primary last year ahead of an expected election for Hong Kong’s legislature. City leader Carrie Lam later scrapped the election, citing the coronavirus pandemic. Activists called her move a thinly veiled attempt to thwart expected opposition gains.How can a primary be a threat to national security?Security Secretary John Lee said those arrested were suspected of trying to gain control of the legislature to paralyze government business. The subversion section of the national security law criminalizes “seriously interfering in, disrupting, or undermining the performance of duties and functions” of the Chinese or Hong Kong governments.Lam said at the time of the primary that if its purpose was to resist every government initiative, it could amount to subverting state power. The central government labelled the primary illegal and a “serious provocation” to Hong Kong’s electoral system.What’s the likely impact?The arrests will remove more activists from the scene, reducing the possibility of renewed protests and eliminating many as future candidates for office. They warn a younger generation that formed the backbone of protests in 2014 and 2019 that even holding an unofficial primary can result in legal action that can seriously impact their futures.Human Rights Watch said of the move that repression generates resistance, but the tightening restrictions on opposition activity and the lingering effects of the coronavirus on public life and the economy could delay or permanently discourage the emergence of a new generation willing to take on Beijing.Why now?Beijing has been unrelenting in its efforts to prevent any repeat of the 2019 protests, which grew increasingly violent in response to the government’s refusal to entertain the protesters’ demands. They plunged Hong Kong into its biggest political crisis since its return to Chinese rule in 1997.China is also determined to drive out what it sees as unwarranted foreign government interference in its domestic affairs. The nation’s newfound military, economic and political clout is emboldening it to take on the West, and it can take advantage of distractions resulting from pandemic and political disruptions in the US and Europe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/explainer-hong-kong-mass-arrests-chill-democracy-movement/story-ZMScixul7PwQvSj4Ice8gO.html
06-01-2021||World||Covid-19: Timeline of events that led to China blocking WHO’s team||The World Health Organization (WHO) on Tuesday expressed dismay over China blocking the entry of an international team of scientists to investigate the origin of the coronavirus or SARS-CoV-2. Dr Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, the head of the UN health agency, told a news conference that two members had already left their home countries for Wuhan, the first epicentre of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak, when they were informed that Chinese officials had not approved necessary permissions to enter the country.“I’m very disappointed with this news, given that two members have already begun their journeys, and others were not able to travel at the last minute,” said Ghebreyesus. “But I have been in contact with senior Chinese officials. And I have once again made it clear that the mission is a priority for WHO and the international team,” he added.Here’s the timeline of events leading to China blocking WHO’s team:December 2019: The WHO picked up a media report about a cluster of cases of pneumonia of unknown cause emerging in China’s Wuhan.January 2020: The virus outbreak was identified as a novel coronavirus and China shared its genetic sequence with the UN health agency. Preliminary studies suggested that the bats could be the source since the coronavirus present in bats has a genome that is 96 per cent identical to the novel coronavirus. However, there has not been any concrete evidence to corroborate it.The United States declared a public health emergency after the country reported its first few cases of the novel coronavirus. US President Donald Trump issued an executive order to block the entry of foreign nationals travelling from China.February: The Coronavirus Study Group (CSG) of the International Committee on Taxonomy of Viruses (ICTV) named the virus SARS-CoV-2, noting that it was a variant of the coronavirus that caused an outbreak of severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) in 2003. The WHO started referring to the disease caused by SARS-CoV-2 as Covid-19 to avoid “unintended consequences in terms of creating unnecessary fear for some population.” The health agency also said that it followed the best practices in naming the disease to minimise “unnecessary negative effects on nations, economies and people.”Also Read | Impasse over WHO virus mission ‘not just a visa issue’ says ChinaMarch: The WHO declared Covid-19 as a pandemic, urging countries to take immediate and aggressive action. Trump launched a scathing attack on China and said the world is paying a “very big price” for covering-up the facts on coronavirus. Ignoring the appeal from the WHO, the US president kept calling Covid-19 as “China virus” or “Chinese virus”.April: The US, which was the biggest contributor to the WHO, threatened to withhold funds, accusing the UN body of being China-centric and giving “faulty recommendation”. Other top US officials, including secretary of state Mike Pompeo, alleged that China delayed in sharing accurate information on the novel coronavirus. The US and Australia were one of the first countries to demand an independent inquiry into the origin of the coronavirus outbreak. Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison said that the call for an inquiry was reasonable not meant to target any country. Australia’s demand triggered a sharp response from China, leading to a decline in their bilateral relations.May: Australia’s major push for an investigation into the origin of the virus outbreak and the response of the WHO gained huge traction and the European Union drafted a resolution seeking an independent probe. The WHO chief welcomed the proposed resolution and said that such evaluation must encompass the entirety of the response by all actors, in good faith.Member states of the WHO adopted the resolution by consensus at the World Health Assembly (WHA) calling for an “impartial, independent and comprehensive evaluation” of the global response to the virus outbreak and an inquiry into the actions of the WHO and “timelines pertaining to the Covid-19 pandemic”. China voiced strong objection to the resolution, saying it was premature to launch a probe into the origin of Covid-19.Speaking at the largely virtual WHA, Chinese President Xi Jinping said that Beijing supports a comprehensive review of the global response to the pandemic, but only after Covid-19 is brought under control. He asserted that China has been open and transparent about the virus outbreak from the beginning and will support a probe if it is conducted in an “objective and impartial manner.”Also Read | Covid-19: WHO chief ‘disappointed’ at delayed access for China investigation teamJune: China punished Australia’s beef producers and barley farmers in apparent retaliation and asked Chinese students to reconsider studying in that country. After Australia’s exports were hit following its strong criticism of China’s handling of coronavirus, Morrison said that he would not cave to coercion by trading values. “We are an open trading nation, mate, but I’m never going to trade our values in response to coercion from wherever it comes,” the Australian prime minister told the radio station 2GB.July: China agreed to allow a team of experts led by the WHO to visit the country to trace the origin of Covid-19. “After consultation, the Chinese government has agreed that the World Health Organization will send a team of experts to Beijing to trace the origin of Covid-19,” Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijiantold told a press briefing.December: The WHO announced that a team of international experts, looking into the origins of the SARS-CoV-2, will travel to China in the first week of January. Dr Michael Ryan, the head of emergencies at the UN agency, said that there will be quarantine arrangements for the team and they will later visit the suspected site of the virus outbreak in Wuhan. “The purpose of the mission is to go to the original point at which human cases were detected and that we fully expect to do that,” he said, adding that the team will not be supervised by Chinese officials.January 2021: China denied necessary permission to the team of scientists to enter the country. After the WHO chief publicly expressed disappointment in a rare rebuke to Beijing, Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson told the BBC that there might be “some misunderstanding” and “there’s no need to read too much into it”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-timeline-of-events-that-led-to-china-blocking-who-s-team/story-2E38IOZRoEghQZFkNTDR8H.html
06-01-2021||World||Trump bars US transactions with 8 Chinese apps. Here are other such bans||US President Donald Trump on Tuesday passed an executive order banning transactions with eight Chinese applications, including Ant Group’s Alipay payment app, heightening the conflict between the United States and China. The new order is among the list of bans imposed by the US president during recent times. The ban comes as the transition date of President-elect Joe Biden nears.Also Read | China asks US to stop interfering with Hong-Kong related issuesThe US-China tensions have caused large scale confusions in the financial markets too as the New York Stock Exchange took a U-turn on Monday and reversed its order of delisting three Chinese telecom majors.Here is the list of Chinese companies banned by the Trump administration recently:1. The Trump administration passed an executive order on Tuesday to control what it said was Chinese pervasiveness in the US for the protection of national security by banning Alipay, CamScanner, QQ Wallet, SHAREit, Tencent QQ, VMate, WeChat Pay, and WPS Office. The order that asserted the ban on the use of apps that help the government of the People’s Republic of China (PRC) and the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) gain access to personal information of Americans and federal employees is set to be effective after 45 days.2. In another executive order dated November 12, 2020, the Trump administration prohibited dealing in publicly traded securities of companies linked with Chinese communist military. Following the order, the New York Stock Exchange earlier this week moved to delist China Telecom, China Mobile and China Unicom from January 11. The move to delist the three telecom majors was later reversed abruptly due to the ambiguity in the order, reported Reuters. However, as of today, the bourse is reportedly mulling to take a second U-turn and de-list the companies, according to a Reuters report. After the earlier order, there were also reports about Chinese oil majors to be the next in line to be removed from the bourse.Also Read | NYSE may make second U-turn on China telecom delistings amid confusion over policy3. China’s top chipmaker Semiconductor Manufacturing International Corporation (SMIC) and drone producer SZ DJI Technology Co Ltd were also blacklisted by the Department of Commerce last year. The order dating December 18, 2020, said, “We will not allow advanced U.S. technology to help build the military of an increasingly belligerent adversary.” Sixty other entities were also deemed by the department as working contrary to the national security and foreign policy of the US.4. The Commerce Department also banned transactions related with China’s TikTok and WeChat in September, following an executive order dated August 6,2020 banning TikTok in an attempt to safeguard national security. The order was also followed by a federal judge blocking the ban of the ByteDance’s short-form video app.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-bars-us-transactions-with-8-chinese-apps-here-are-other-such-bans/story-0o7rahvSug7XNkUSwOp9QM.html
06-01-2021||World||Afghanistan busted Chinese spy ring, kept it a secret. NDS chief explains why||Afghanistan’s National Directorate of Security which had busted a Chinese spy ring last month but kept the case a closely-guarded secret has, for the first time, confirmed that the security agency did detain Chinese nationals for espionage. As first reported by Hindustan Times, the NDS had detained 10 Chinese nationals for espionage. At least 2 of the 10 spies were learnt to have been in touch with the Haqqani Network, the terrorist group backed by Pakistan’s Inter Services Intelligence that is blamed for many bloody attacks and doubles as the sword arm of the Taliban.The NDS had initially declined comment on the detentions to the media in Afghanistan.The official confirmation about the Chinese spy ring came on Tuesday after members of Wolesi Jirga, the Afghan House of Representatives, demanded answers on the Hindustan Times report from the National Directorate of Security boss Ahmad Zia Saraj.Ahmad Zia Saraj confirmed that a group of Chinese nationals had been arrested on charges of espionage in Kabul, according to Afghanistan private news channel Ariana News. But he declined to give any more details.“Yes, a group of Chinese has been arrested but due to it being a sensitive issue, I cannot share details,” the NDS chief told the lawmakers, according to the news channel.The official confirmation, however, comes after Afghanistan came under pressure from President Xi Jinping’s government in Beijing and allowed the 10 Chinese nationals to leave the country. The 10 were flown out of Afghanistan on Saturday in a special aircraft arranged by the Chinese authorities.Diplomats and security officials in Afghanistan believe that the 10 were linked to the Chinese intelligence agency, Ministry of State Security.President Ashraf Ghani was briefed about the detentions right in the beginning in view of the sensitivities involved. First Vice President Amrullah Saleh, a former NDS chief who is credited with rebuilding the intelligence agency, was tasked to oversee the investigation and engage the Chinese.Amrullah Saleh, who met the Chinese envoy to Kabul, Wang Yu, in this context, had initially conditioned their release on an official apology from Beijing.The terms of the arrangement between the two countries are not known.A diplomat in Kabul said President Ashraf Ghani may have been keen to wrap up the case as soon as possible, before it lands in a position where Beijing’s adversaries such as the US use the case to fire at China from his shoulders.Also Read: How a suspected Chinese spy targeted California politicians for 5 yearsThere was a view within the Afghan government that the 10-member Chinese module may have been attempting to create a fake East Turkestan Islamic Movement (ETIM) module in Afghanistan to entrap ETIM operatives in Afghanistan.ETIM is a small Islamic separatist group alleged to be active in Xinjiang province, home to China’s ethnic minority Uighur Muslims. The United States last month revoked the terror tag slapped on ETIM although the group continues to be designated by the UN Security Council. Rights groups say China uses the ETIM threat as an excuse to impose restrictions on Uyghurs and discredit human rights activists outside China.Chinese officials, however, suggest that Beijing was concerned that Afghanistan, which shares borders with the volatile Xinjiang province, could become a breeding ground for Uyghur Muslim militants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/afghan-intel-chief-confirms-busting-chinese-spy-ring-says-it-s-sensitive/story-iFqT1qRYtfytMlkEN7ATxN.html
06-01-2021||World||London court denies bail to Wikileaks founder Julian Assange||WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange was denied bail on Wednesday because a judge said there is a risk he may abscond while the United States tries to secure his extradition from Britain.Assange has spent more than eight years either holed up in the London’s Ecuadorean embassy or in jail.But Assange on Monday won an attempt to stop his extradition to the United States to face 18 criminal charges of breaking an espionage law and conspiring to hack government computers. He had then asked to be bailed.“I am satisfied that there are substantial grounds for believing that if Mr Assange is released today he would fail to surrender to court to face the appeal proceedings,” Judge Vanessa Baraitser said.The U.S. Department of Justice says it will continue to seek Assange’s extradition.“As far as Mr Assange is concerned this case has not yet been won... the outcome of this appeal is not yet known,” Baraitser said.Admirers hail Australian-born Assange as a hero for exposing what they describe as abuses of power by the United States. But detractors cast him as a dangerous figure who has undermined the security of the West, and dispute that he is a journalist.WikiLeaks published hundreds of thousands of secret U.S. diplomatic cables that laid bare often critical U.S. appraisals of world leaders, from Russian President Vladimir Putin to members of the Saudi royal family.Assange made international headlines in early 2010 when WikiLeaks published a classified U.S. military video showing a 2007 attack by Apache helicopters that killed a dozen people in Baghdad, including two Reuters news staff.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/london-court-denies-bail-to-wikileaks-founder-julian-assange/story-rbZoxa3KXThVOM9XrNO8sL.html
06-01-2021||World||Pakistan relaxes rules to purchase Covid-19 vaccine on emergency basis||The Pakistan government has relaxed the rules to procure Covid-19 vaccine on emergency basis, officials said on Wednesday.The decision to relax the Public Procurement Regulatory Authority (PPRA) rules to purchase the vaccine was taken at a Cabinet meeting chaired by Prime Minister Imran Khan on Tuesday, they said.As per the decision, there will be no need to fulfil the tender requirement to procure the vaccine, which will be purchased from any of the six companies registered with the Ministry of National Health Services (NHS).“The federal cabinet, in order to save human lives timely and on an emergency basis, accorded approval for the purchase of Covid-19 vaccine by the Ministry of Health,” said a statement issued by the Prime Minister’s Office.The government last month had allocated $150 million for procurement of the coronavirus vaccine. It was also decided in December that health workers fighting on the frontline and people over 65 years of age would be vaccinated in the first phase.Meanwhile, with 52 more people succumbing to the viral infection in the last 24 hours, the Covid-19 death toll reached 10,461 in the country, while the number of total cases touched 492,594 after 2,118 new infections were reported in the last one day, according to the health ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pakistan-relaxes-rules-to-purchase-covid-19-vaccine-on-emergency-basis/story-0WelMVrAfUVbOqqcxN5LQL.html
06-01-2021||World||Trump claims voter fraud in Georgia Senate runoffs, Republican candidate calls for ‘transparency’||After multiple failed attempts to overturn the US presidential election results, President Donald Trump has now started suggesting voter fraud in Georgia Senate runoffs, which will decide the fate of president-elect Joe Biden’s agenda. In a series of tweets, Trump claimed that the officials are “setting up” a “voter dump” against Republican candidates to get ahead in the final round of counting.“Just happened to have found another 4000 ballots from Fulton County. Here we go!” tweeted the outgoing US president, which was immediately flagged by the micro-blogging platform as “disputed”.Trump also amplified White House press secretary Kayleigh McEnany’s misleading claim and implicit suggestion of electoral fraud. McEnancy asked why had the election officials stopped the vote count in Chatham County, a Democratic stronghold. “Why are they stopping the vote count in Democrat Chatham county, Georgia? This sounds familiar!” tweeted McEnancy, which was retweeted by the US president and duly flagged by Twitter.According to a CNN report, the counting of votes in Chatham County wasn’t just stopped for the night, rather the officials have counted everything they had. Gabriel Sterling, the voting systems implementation manager, told the US media network that they are left with the absentee ballots that came in on Tuesday via mail and dropbox, adding that such ballots are coming from largely Democratic counties.Also Read | Democrats win one Georgia runoff election, poised to pick the secondMeanwhile, Democrat Raphael Warnock has won one of Georgia’s two Senate runoffs and all eyes are now on the contest between incumbent Republican David Perdue and Democrat Jon Ossoff. Amid unsubstantiated voter fraud claims by the US president, Perdue’s campaign has called for “time and transparency to be certain the results are fair and accurate.” “We will mobilize every available resource and exhaust every legal recourse to ensure all legally cast ballots are properly counted. We believe in the end, Senator Perdue will be victorious,” Perdue’s campaign said in a statement early Wednesday.The final outcome of Georgia Senate runoffs is also set to coincide with the certification of the electoral college and Biden’s victory by the US Congress. In a fresh attempt to thwart the Electoral College vote, Trump has publicly urged vice president Mike Pence to steal the election for him. Taking to Twitter, Trump said that many states want to “decertify the mistake”, suggesting that Pence can send back the certificate to respective state legislatures.“If Vice President @Mike_Pence comes through for us, we will win the Presidency. Many States want to decertify the mistake they made in certifying incorrect & even fraudulent numbers in a process NOT approved by their State Legislatures (which it must be). Mike can send it back!” he tweeted. If Vice President @Mike_Pence comes through for us, we will win the Presidency. Many States want to decertify the mistake they made in certifying incorrect & even fraudulent numbers in a process NOT approved by their State Legislatures (which it must be). Mike can send it back!||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-claims-voter-fraud-in-georgia-senate-runoffs-republican-candidate-calls-for-transparency/story-clgtUe6lNWeOeDj3uvQWgN.html
06-01-2021||World||Ukraine firm applies to make Russian vaccine, sparks political dilemma||A Ukrainian pharmaceutical company backed by a prominent Russian-leaning opposition figure has applied for state approval to make Russia’s Sputnik V Covid-19 vaccine, a sensitive move given toxic relations between Kyiv and Moscow.The two countries have been at loggerheads since Russia’s annexation of Crimea from Ukraine in 2014 and involvement in a conflict in Ukraine’s eastern Donbass region which Kyiv says has killed 14,000 people.Ukraine’s government has played down the prospects of approving the Sputnik V vaccine quickly, if at all. Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba called the vaccine “a hybrid weapon of Russia against Ukraine” in an interview with The Day newspaper.Ukrainian pharmaceutical firm Biolik said in a statement on its website it had applied to register Gam-COVID-Vac, also known as Sputnik V, in Ukraine. Russia on Saturday floated the idea of holding clinical trials in Ukraine.Biolik’s application has been promoted by the Ukrainian opposition politician Viktor Medvedchuk, an ally of Russian President Vladimir Putin.Ukraine’s health ministry did not immediately respond to a request for comment, but Deputy Health Minister Viktor Lyashko was quoted by Interfax news agency as saying Ukraine would only use vaccines that had finished clinical trials. Sputnik V is still undergoing Phase III trials.Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskiy told the New York Times last month that the vaccine would be used in Russia’s “information war” against Ukraine.But he was also quoted as saying “...it is impossible to explain to Ukrainian society why not take the vaccine from Russia if America and Europe do not give you the vaccine. It is impossible to explain that to anyone who dies.”Zelenskiy’s government is looking to secure Covid-19 vaccines from China and the global COVAX scheme for poorer nations to fight the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/ukraine-firm-applies-to-make-russian-vaccine-sparks-political-dilemma/story-oubgWvaYgG4cyDTlXgvhxL.html
06-01-2021||World||Russia, Syria clash with US over chemical weapons sanctions in UNSC||Syria and close ally Russia clashed with the US and other nations Tuesday over a Western initiative to suspend Syria’s voting rights in the global chemical weapons watchdog for failing to provide details of three chemical attacks in 2017 that investigators blamed on President Bashar Assad’s government.The confrontation in the UN Security Council foreshadowed a showdown when the 193 member states of the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons meet in The Hague, Netherlands, in April to consider a French-drafted measure, on behalf of 46 countries, to suspend Syria’s “rights and privileges” in the body.The French proposal was a response to Syria’s failure to meet a 90-day deadline set in July by the OPCW’s executive council for Damascus to declare the nerve agent sarin and chlorine, which OPCW investigators said last April were dropped by the Syrian air force on the central town of Latamneh in late March 2017.The Western effort reflects a much broader effort to obtain accountability for Syrian chemical attacks and highlight claims that Assad’s government is secretly continuing its chemical weapons program.Syria joined the Chemical Weapons Convention in September 2013, pressed by Russia after a deadly chemical weapons attack that the West blamed on Damascus.By August 2014, the Assad government declared that the destruction of its chemical weapons was completed. But Syria’s initial declaration of its chemical stockpiles and chemical weapons production sites has remained in dispute.Ireland’s UN ambassador, Geraldine Byrne Nason, a new council member, said it was “deeply disturbing” that the OPCW still cannot determine whether the initial declaration was accurate or complete because of gaps and inconsistencies. She said the problems are not “minor” as some would portray, alluding to Russia.“Over those seven years, the number of issues that need to be addressed has expanded from five to 19,” Byrne Nason said. “There have been 17 amendments to Syria’s declaration including the addition of a production facility, four research and development centers, and doubling of the amount of declared agents and chemicals.”In addition, she said, there are issues related to “hundreds of tons of missing agents and munitions reported destroyed” before Syria joined the chemical convention as well as recent reports of a production facility that Damascus declared as never having been used, “where there is clear evidence to the contrary.”Norwegian Ambassador Mona Juul, another new council member, also expressed concern at Syria’s failure to explain an unnamed chemical that can be used in chemical weapons but also has non-weapons uses. It was detected at the Barzah facilities of the Syrian Scientific Studies and Research Center.Russia’s deputy UN ambassador, Dmitry Polyansky, again accused OPCW investigators of being “unscrupulous” and alleged they used “forgeries” and “manipulations” to blame Syria.He called the chemical watchdog “seriously ill with politicization.” And he accused a number of unnamed countries of “playing this `chemical card’ to step up pressure on the Syrian government that they failed to overthrow in the wake of the so-called Arab Spring.”As for the initial Syrian declaration, Polyansky said Damascus was not “an extraordinary case,” pointing to amended declarations by Western countries including France and Germany as well as Libya. He accused Western delegations of trying to “inflate agitation” around Syria.French Ambassador Nicolas De Riviere expressed regret at “the false accusations of those who seek to discredit OPCW” and its findings about Syria’s attacks.“There is simply the reality of the facts,” he said. “We all know them: the regime used weapons of war prohibited by international law against its own population, and since then we have seem chemical weapons re-emerge and become commonplace in Syria and elsewhere.”British Ambassador Barbara Woodward said OPCW investigators, alone and initially with a UN team, determined Syria used chemical weapons on at least six occasions.“These are not hypothetical issues for the thousands of Syrian civilians who have suffered the horrifying effects on the body of nerve agents and chlorine,” she said.Syria’s deputy foreign minister and former UN ambassador, Bashar Ja’afari, accused some unnamed Western nations of using the OPCW “as a platform to fabricate allegations and then justify an assault and aggression on Syria.”The aim, he said, is “to frame the Syrian government for the use of chemical weapons and exonerate the terrorists and the sponsors ... and give them the necessary means to escape through the occupied Golan area through Israel to the capitals of Western states where they can live.”Russia’s Polyansky said Syria could not meet the OPCW’s anti-Syria demands on Latamneh because it “simply doesn’t have” the chemical weapons and facilities the organization is seeking.“Hopefully, the majority of delegations at the member states’ conference in April will reject this provocation, and the West-initiated decision, which is `punitive’ by nature, will not pass,” he said.US deputy ambassador Richard Mills said neither the Security Council nor the world “is fooled” by Russia’s accelerated campaign to discredit the OPCW.He urged council members to call on all countries to support the French draft against Syria in April “aimed at promoting accountability for the Assad regime’s actions.”“It is time that the Syrian people, and indeed all the globe’s people, be allowed to live in a world free of the threat of chemical weapons,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/russia-syria-clash-with-us-over-chemical-weapons-sanctions-in-unsc/story-S9wuDtuF4LzyAHFEIiEAkP.html
06-01-2021||World||NYSE may make second U-turn on China telecom delistings amid confusion over policy||The New York Stock Exchange is reconsidering its plan to allow three Chinese telecom giants to remain listed, the latest twist to a saga amid confusion over rules set by the Trump administration and tension within Washington on China policy.If it does so, it would mark a second sudden U-turn. The bourse said late Monday it reversed a decision announced just last week to delist China Mobile Ltd, China Telecom Corp Ltd and China Unicom Hong Kong Ltd after consulting with regulatory authorities in connection with the U.S. Treasury’s Office of Foreign Assets Control.The about-face was due to ambiguity over an executive order issued by President Donald Trump barring investment in firms Washington says are tied to the Chinese military, and whether the three firms were banned under the order, a source familiar with the matter said on Tuesday.However, it will go ahead with the delistings, which were planned on or before Jan. 11, if it deems the companies are subject to the order, said the person who asked to remain anonymous because the discussions are ongoing.Bloomberg earlier reported that the NYSE may flip back. U.S. Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin phoned New York Stock Exchange President Stacey Cunningham on Tuesday to tell her he disagreed with the exchange operator’s decision to reverse course on the delistings, a separate source said.Coming in the final days of the Trump presidency, the back and forth at the NYSE underscored the lack of clarity about, and the tensions around, the implementation and implications of the administration’s ban on investment in 35 Chinese companies. One China expert who has worked with Congress on delisting issues said the NYSE may have made the U-turn if they sought clarity from Treasury about the rules and been told they did not need to delist. Republican Senator, and China hardliner, Marco Rubio expressed outrage that the U.S. Treasury may have caused the NYSE to wind back the delisting procedures. “If it is true that someone at (Treasury) advised (NYSE) to reverse the decision to delist these Chinese companies, it was a outrageous effort to undermine (President Trump’s) Executive Order,” he tweeted.The Treasury declined comment on the NYSE decision. OFAC, which is responsible for enforcing sanctions, declined comment. The NYSE is owned by Atlanta-based Intercontinental Exchange Inc (ICE), which is run by billionaire Jeffrey Sprecher, whose wife Kelly Loeffler, also a former ICE executive, is one of two Republican senators facing run-off elections on Tuesday in Georgia. Loeffler is a staunch supporter of President Trump.NEW GUARD The flip-flopping at the Big Board also sowed confusion among investors.Tariq Dennison, managing director at GFM Asset Management in Hong Kong, said he had almost completely unwound his positions in China Mobile shares in both Hong Kong and New York, partly in anticipation of needing to find investments for U.S. clients with less exposure to risks associated with the investment ban.The are also questions about how the order will be handled by President-elect Joe Biden who is set to take office on Jan. 20 and could revoke it easily. His transition team has not commented on plans for the directive. William Kirby, a Harvard Business School professor focused on China, said on Monday that whereas the Trump administration has taken a “one-size-fits-all” approach to its regulation of Chinese companies, the Biden administration would likely have company-by-company reviews. Miller said that while the last year had seen toughening policies on investment flows into Chinese companies, “many of these rules are likely to fall by the wayside.”FLIP-FLOP The executive order banning U.S. investors from buying shares of companies Washington alleges are owned or controlled by the Chinese military takes effect on Jan. 11, although shareholders can wait until November 2021 to divest.While the directive stops short of forcing a delisting, a separate bill signed into law by Trump in November will kick Chinese companies off U.S. bourses if they do not fully comply with the country’s auditing rules in three years.S&P Dow Jones Indices said on Wednesday it would no longer remove the three firms’ ADRs, which had been due to be deleted before Jan.7, from its benchmarks after the NYSE’s latest decision.Other index makers including FTSE Russell and MSCI Inc have cut a dozen Chinese companies on the list from their benchmarks, but have not removed the three telecom firms, all of which have major passive U.S. funds amongst their top shareholders.The three telecom firms said in statements that they had taken note of the NYSE’s latest announcement and would release information in accordance with regulations, adding that investors should pay attention to investment risks.Chinese foreign ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying told a regular briefing on Wednesday that some political forces in the United States were continuing with an unreasonable suppression of U.S.-listed foreign firms, which she said highlighted the arbitrary nature of its policies.“We hope the U.S. respects the legal system and the market,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/nyse-may-make-second-u-turn-on-china-telecom-delistings-amid-confusion-over-policy/story-OJBtOoG7ZLpjUxV9hvtTfI.html
06-01-2021||World||Hong Kong democracy activists demand govt releases ‘political prisoners’||Hong Kong democracy activists called on the government on Wednesday to release “political prisoners,” hours after authorities arrested 53 members of the opposition camp, in a move that sent a chill through the global financial centre.At a press briefing to address the mass arrests of pro-democracy activists in a dawn sweep, members of the democratic camp said the arrests were “shameful” and represented oppression on the right to vote.Hong Kong authorities said on Wednesday the arrests were related to an unofficial vote to choose opposition candidates in city elections was part of a plan to “overthrow” the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/hong-kong-democracy-activists-demand-govt-releases-political-prisoners/story-aB0OUQxtIzEn6282t6wgNM.html
06-01-2021||World||China says it will respond to planned Taiwan, US defence talks||China said on Wednesday it would make a “necessary response” to a planned military dialogue between the United States and Chinese-claimed Taiwan, saying it firmly opposed the event.China has been angered by stepped up support for the democratic island by outgoing U.S. President Donald Trump’s administration, including new arms sales and visits to Taipei by senior U.S. officials, which have strained already poor Beijing-Washington ties.The U.S. State Department said Assistant Secretary of State for Political-Military Affairs Clarke Cooper would deliver “virtual remarks” at the Taiwan political and military dialogue from the State Department late on Wednesday, though gave no other details.Speaking in Beijing, Chinese Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying said it would make a “necessary response based on how the situation develops” and was “resolutely opposed” to the talks.China urges the United States to “immediately stop any form of official exchanges and military links with Taiwan, to avoid further damaging stability in the Taiwan Strait and Sino-U.S. relations”, she added.Taiwan’s Foreign Ministry said it would not give details of the talks, citing “Taiwan-U.S. mutual trust and a tacit diplomatic understanding”.“The two sides often maintain close and smooth communication on various issues of common concern, so as to continue to deepen cooperation at all levels of politics, economics, and security,” said spokeswoman Joanne Ou.Cooper met Taiwan’s top diplomat in Washington, Hsiao Bi-khim, in August, saying it was a pleasure to talk with her “as we work together for regional peace and stability”.Democratic Taiwan, claimed by China as its sovereign territory, has come under increasing pressure from Beijing, which has ramped up military activity near the island.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-says-it-will-respond-to-planned-taiwan-us-defence-talks/story-4Uei6VzXHCKlQtYX2yY2bP.html
06-01-2021||World||Donald Trump’s defeat pits Republicans against Republicans||Donald Trump’s months-long effort to toss out the election results and extend his presidency will meet its formal end this week, but not without exposing political rifts in the Republican Party that have pitted future contenders for the White House against one another.Congress is expected to vote overwhelmingly against objections to certification of President-elect Joe Biden’s victory, after several Senate Republicans said this week they wouldn’t join a small group of their colleagues set to challenge Electoral College votes from closely fought states Trump falsely claims he lost due to widespread fraud.The senators who say they’ll affirm Biden’s victory -- and who say to do otherwise would defy the Constitution -- include Tom Cotton of Arkansas and Tim Scott of South Carolina, both of whom are seen as potential future presidential candidates.The leaders of the 13 Senate Republicans planning to object to one or more states are Josh Hawley of Missouri, also regarded as a potential 2024 candidate, and Ted Cruz of Texas, who finished second in the 2016 GOP primary to Trump.Presiding over the event will be the Republican Party’s most obvious standard-bearer in the years ahead, besides Trump himself: Vice President Mike Pence.He is under pressure from Trump’s supporters and the president to attempt to single-handedly change the outcome of the election by rejecting Electoral College votes from states where Trump has baselessly alleged that fraud robbed him of victory. Pence has not said how he will address the matter.Congressional certification of Biden’s win is the final, official act in the drawn-out 2020 election before he’s inaugurated and takes office on Jan. 20. But the complicated political currents roiling the Republican Party are turning what used to be a mere formality to end presidential contests into an unprecedented drama.“You are looking at ambitious Republican officials placing a bet on President Trump’s influence in the future,” said Michael Steel, a partner at Hamilton Place Strategies and former adviser to Jeb Bush’s presidential campaign. The fate of the effort depends on Trump’s popularity going forward, he said.“There is a possibility he becomes highly unpopular -- having tried to warp the Constitution to protect him will be politically damaging. On the other hand, you have to assume, he will have a substantial impact in the Republican primary, and standing with him will help you avoid a primary challenge.”On Tuesday night, Trump, in a statement from his campaign, denied a New York Times report that Pence had told him he did not believe he had the authority to stop the certification.“Our vice president has several options under the US Constitution,” Trump said, an assertion rejected by constitutional scholars. The Constitution says only that the president of the Senate -- Pence, in this case -- shall “open all the certificates and the votes shall then be counted.”Late-Night DebateDepending on how many states’ Electoral College submissions are challenged, Congress may find itself debating whether to affirm Biden’s victory well into the night on Wednesday or into Thursday morning. The ramifications will echo for years.Republicans objecting to congressional certification of Biden’s victory are aiming to ingratiate themselves with an outgoing president who has made clear he has no intention of retiring from politics. Some, though, have stopped short of embracing his false allegations of widespread fraud -- in effect, looking to harness the outrage he’s stoked without actually disputing the election results.“There will be a lot of competition for Trump’s affection, and Trump will still be very influential in the GOP primary,” said Mike DuHaime, a GOP strategist who worked for the Republican National Committee and former New Jersey Governor Chris Christie. “His tweets could make or break people in 2022 or 2024.”But the Republicans who say they’ll vote to accept the Electoral College results include staunch Trump allies such as Cotton and Senator Kevin Cramer of North Dakota. They say the Constitution gives Congress no real power to decide presidential elections, and describe the effort as violating conservative principles of limited federal government.“It is disappointing this vote has become the exclusive litmus test for whether or not a member of Congress stands with President Trump,” Cramer said in a statement late Monday.Cotton warned of destabilizing the Electoral College. A group of House Republicans who oppose calls to object said the same this week, pointing out that the College “could provide the only path to victory in 2024” for the Republican nominee and shouldn’t be weakened on Wednesday.Scott said the GOP lawmakers’ efforts aren’t practical, since Democrats control the House. “For their theory to work, Nancy Pelosi and House Democrats would have to elect Donald Trump president rather than Joe Biden,” Scott said Tuesday, referring to votes triggered by an objection to a state’s certified results. “That is not going to happen.”That the fight is happening at all is a sign of Trump’s enduring influence. The aftermath may ripple through the 2022 midterm elections -- calls for objections are more widespread among House Republicans, who are more vulnerable to primary challenges -- and the presidential nomination race that will follow.Trump again tried to pressure Senate Republicans on Tuesday.“I think it’s not only ridiculous, I think its dangerous,” said former GOP Representative Denver Riggleman of Virginia, who left Congress after losing his party’s nomination for re-election last year and has been critical of Trump. “I find it amazing that people are kowtowing to someone who lost an election because they’re worried about primaries or fundraising.”Riggleman said he doubts any Republican lawmakers believe there was electoral fraud outside what he dubbed the “QAnon caucus,” referring to the farcical far-right conspiracy theory. “This is simply political and the fact is they don’t care what it does to the republic,” he said.Cool ReceptionIn the Senate, the push had met a cooler reception until Hawley said last week that he’d object, defying pressure from Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell. Cruz followed, leading a group of 11 Republicans including four newly elected senators, further eroding McConnell’s grip. Their specific plans are still unclear.Georgia Senator Kelly Loeffler, who faced a runoff election on Tuesday, said she backed the effort.“Clearly, Cruz and Hawley are willing to get in and fight -- and I wish some of their colleagues in the Senate had the same fortitude right now,” said Jason Miller, an adviser to Trump’s campaigns in 2016 and 2020. But he downplayed questions about whether political futures are driving decisions.“This isn’t about trying to thread a needle by anyone not named Trump for the future,” he said. “This is much more a reaction to an angry and ticked-off Trump base.”Hawley believes he has an obligation to give voice to constituents sympathetic to Trump’s claims of vote fraud.“If you’ve been speaking to folks at home, I’m sure you know how deeply angry and disillusioned many, many people are -- and how frustrated that Congress has taken little or no action,” Hawley wrote to fellow Republican senators last week.He cited past objections during presidential certifications. “I strongly believe it is entirely appropriate for those of us concerned about the integrity of this last election to do the same,” he wrote.Dan Eberhart, a Republican donor, said Cotton is seeking to broaden his support among mainstream voters, while Cruz and Hawley want to “outdo each other for the conservative vote” heading into the 2024 primary.“They are setting themselves up to be the heir-apparent of Trump. But four years is a long time,” he said. “Identifying yourself now as the torch-bearer of Trumpism may or may not pay dividends in 2024.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-s-defeat-pits-republicans-against-republicans/story-Tf7jgAiB9tMNno6WGf0A9I.html
06-01-2021||World||Euro zone contraction deeper than thought in December as lockdowns bite||Economic activity in the euro zone contracted more sharply than previously thought at the end of 2020 and could get worse as renewed lockdown restrictions imposed to contain the coronavirus hit the bloc’s dominant service industry, a survey showed.With infection rates soaring across Europe, countries have clamped down on public life. Germany is set to extend its strict lockdown until the end of the month and Italy decided on Tuesday to keep some nationwide restrictions in place.IHS Markit’s final December Composite Purchasing Managers’ Index (PMI), seen as a good gauge of economic health, did rise to 49.1 from November’s 45.3 but was significantly below a flash reading of 49.8. Anything below 50 indicates contraction.“Service sector activity in particular fell more sharply than estimated by the earlier flash PMI estimate, as more countries stepped up their fights against rising virus case numbers,” said Chris Williamson, chief business economist at IHS Markit.The services PMI registered 46.4 in December, better than the previous month’s 41.7 but far weaker than the 47.3 preliminary estimate.With much of the service industry being forced to close demand also shrank a lot more than thought. The final services new business index was 46.6 compared to the flash estimate of 47.9, albeit better than November’s 40.6.“Worse may be yet to come before things get better, especially as the latest survey data were collected before the news of the new – more contagious – strain of the virus,” Williamson said.“Service sector activity in particular looks likely to remain constrained by severe social distancing in the early months of the new year.”But with vaccines being rolled out across the continent overall optimism about the year ahead improved. The composite future output index rose to 64.5 from 60.4, its highest reading since April 2018.The bloc’s economy is expected to gain momentum this year on vaccine hopes, a Reuters poll found last month, and will return to pre-crisis levels within two years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/euro-zone-contraction-deeper-than-thought-in-december-as-lockdowns-bite/story-W3Eyv3hjZsCjzeQjAsOT8M.html
06-01-2021||World||Israel to tighten lockdown due to surge in Covid-19 cases||Israel will tighten lockdown restrictions in a bid to reverse the sharp rise in coronavirus infections that’s taking place as vaccine supplies dwindle.The cabinet voted to close all schools and non-essential businesses for two weeks, beginning midnight Thursday. Airline travel will be permitted only for those who purchased tickets before.A partial lockdown, which began Dec. 27 and restricted movement and banned most client-facing business activity, hasn’t managed to tame the virus.While Israel says it has inoculated about 15% of the population with a first dose of vaccine, it is running low on supply. Second doses have been set aside for those already immunized, but the government has warned that there will be a lull in new inoculations until more supplies arrive.A first shipment of 100,000 Moderna Inc. doses are to arrive this week, according to reports in the local press.The virus variant identified in Britain is spreading in Israel as well, exacerbating the outbreak, according to the government. More than 8,000 new cases in the country of 9.3 million were confirmed in each of the past two days, bringing the total since the beginning of the pandemic to more than 458,000, including 3,495 fatalities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/israel-to-tighten-lockdown-due-to-surge-in-covid-19-cases/story-2ZrltlJBEOqKvvGkHUC0PM.html
06-01-2021||World||Gulf Arabs agree to restore Qatar ties but no word on OPEC role||Saudi Arabia and three other Arab states agreed to fully restore ties with neighboring Qatar on Tuesday after a sustained U.S. push for the countries to unite against Iran.The breakthrough ending a dispute among some of the world’s top oil and gas producers that erupted in 2017 came just two weeks before President-elect Joe Biden takes office after pledging a new start with Tehran.Saudi Arabia, Bahrain, the United Arab Emirates and Egypt signed an accord with Qatar in a mirrored concert hall in the northwestern Saudi town of Al Ula during a summit of Gulf Cooperation Council leaders, bringing the regional split to an end -- at least on paper.The same day, Saudi Arabia asserted its primacy over the global oil industry by surprising the market with a large crude production cut that secured its leadership among global producers and sent crude prices soaring.The Gulf leaders made no mention of whether Qatar would rejoin the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries. The nation, which pumps around 650,000 barrels a day of crude in addition to gas, decided to leave the cartel at the start of 2019, in one of the most visible consequences of the fallout.It was a rare example of the region’s politics spilling over into OPEC, which has mostly remained unified even amid warfare between some of its members.The reconciliation takes on greater significance given the impending changing of the guard in Washington. While President Donald Trump led an offensive to weaken Iran through sanctions, Biden has pledged to engage diplomatically with the Islamic Republic if it first returns to the terms of the 2015 nuclear deal.Qatar’s main equities gauge on Wednesday was broadly unchanged after advancing the previous day, while most other Middle Eastern benchmarks dropped. The implications of resolving the dispute had already been priced in before the official reconciliation announcement, according to analysts.The yield on Saudi Arabia’s $6.5 billion bond maturing in 2046 rose for a sixth day, while Qatar’s $3 billion debt maturing in 2030 yield gained as well.Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman, the kingdom’s de facto ruler, said Tuesday Gulf nations needed to “unify our efforts to advance our region, and face the challenges that surround us -- especially the challenges represented by Iran’s nuclear and ballistic missiles programs.”Warm embraceQatar’s ruler Emir Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad Al Thani landed in Saudi Arabia to a warm embrace from Prince Mohammed on his first visit since the 2017 falling out that cut trade, travel and diplomatic ties.UAE Minister of State for Foreign Affairs Anwar Gargash wrote on Twitter that a “shining new page” was beginning. Sheikh Tamim tweeted: “We all hope for a better future for the region.”The accord was a major step, but it’s unclear how far the reconciliation will go or how long it will last. The four boycotting nations accused Doha of meddling in their internal affairs, supporting hardline Islamist groups and building ties with Iran. Qatar denied the charges.“The fundamental issues that led initially to the dispute were only partially resolved, and the trust deficit between the Gulf leaders will not be healed immediately,” said Ayham Kamel, head of Middle East and North Africa at the Eurasia Group consultancy.Iran FearsQatar had increasingly turned to Iran and Turkey -- another regional rival of Saudi Arabia and the UAE -- for support, relying on Iranian airspace for overflights. That troubled Saudi Arabia and the Trump administration, which had initially backed the boycott, as it sought to expand its offensive to weaken Iran.Asked whether the incoming U.S. government would be capable of containing Iran, Prince Faisal, the Saudi foreign minister, said all American administrations “are aware of Iran’s threats, even when they sometimes deal with it differently.”Still, although trade relations are expected to make a comeback, economists say trade is unlikely to return to its former levels. In the year before the split, Qatar’s total trade with the kingdom stood at around $1.7 billion, according to Bloomberg data. Qatar’s total trade with the UAE was $3.5 billion.The GCC comprises Bahrain, Qatar, Oman, Saudi Arabia, Kuwait and the UAE. Oman and Kuwait had remained neutral during the split, with Kuwaiti officials providing mediation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/gulf-arabs-agree-to-restore-qatar-ties-but-no-word-on-opec-role/story-k8nq4wNIoYRXOd3B1rYNeJ.html
06-01-2021||World||Impasse over WHO virus mission ‘not just a visa issue’ says China||Delays to a long-planned mission by WHO experts to China to investigate the origins of the Covid-19 pandemic are “not just a visa issue”, Beijing said Wednesday.A year after the outbreak started, international health experts were expected to arrive in China this week for a highly politicised visit to explore the beginnings of the virus, which first emerged late last year in the city of Wuhan.The sensitive mission has been beset by delays and politics, with fears of a whitewash by Beijing.Foreign ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying told reporters Wednesday that talks were continuing between the two sides over “the specific date and specific arrangement of the expert group’s visit”.“The issue of origin-tracing is incredibly complicated. To ensure the work of the international expert team in China goes smoothly, we have to carry out necessary procedures and make relevant arrangements,” said Hua.She said the country is “doing its best to create good conditions for the international expert group to come to China”.On Tuesday the head of the World Health Organization told reporters Beijing had not yet finalised permission for the team’s arrival, saying he was “very disappointed with this news” -- in a rare rebuke of Beijing from the UN body.Earlier this week Chinese authorities refused to confirm the exact dates and details of the visit, a sign of the enduring sensitivity of the mission.The WHO had previously said China has granted permission for a visit by a 10-person team. Hua said China was “placing great importance and is actively communicating with the WHO”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/impasse-over-who-virus-mission-not-just-a-visa-issue-says-china/story-ZUC6YugzLHHoUA5TXM245I.html
06-01-2021||World||South Africa’s hope to secure vaccines from India reportedly thwarted||South Africa’s hope of securing an order of 1.4 million doses of the Covid-19 vaccine designed by AstraZeneca Plc and the University of Oxford from an Indian company may have been thwarted by a ban on exports imposed by the Asian country’s government, Business Day reported, citing unidentified people.Until Monday South Africa was confident it had secured the order from the Serum Institute of India, which is making the vaccine under license, the Johannesburg-based newspaper said. Talks are now being held directly with India’s government, two people familiar with the situation said, according to the newspaper.South Africa’s government is coming under increasing pressure from health leaders, opposition parties and labor unions over its failure to sign any direct vaccine supply deals with pharmaceutical companies. While it has signed up to Covax, an initiative aiming to ensure equitable access to vaccines, it will only start getting shots for 10% of its population of 60 million people in the second quarter.South Africa, the country hardest hit by the coronavirus in Africa, has between 700,000 and 1 million health workers, depending on how they are classified, according to Stavros Nicolaou, head of the health work group for B4SA, a business alliance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/south-africa-s-hope-to-secure-vaccines-from-india-reportedly-thwarted/story-C6DY9GznzyZL5uc3XWXw9N.html
06-01-2021||World||European medicines agency ponders approval for Moderna’s Covid-19 vaccine||The European Union’s medicines agency was meeting Wednesday to consider giving the green light to Moderna Inc.’s Covid-19 vaccine, a decision that would give the 27-nation bloc a second vaccine to use in the desperate battle to tame the virus rampaging across the continent.The meeting of the European Medicines Agency’s human medicines committee (CHMP) comes amid high rates of infections in many EU countries and strong criticism of the slow pace of vaccinations across the region of some 450 million people.The EMA has already approved a coronavirus vaccine made by American drugmaker Pfizer and Germany’s BioNTech. Both vaccines require giving people two shots.Ahead of the meeting on the Moderna vaccine, the agency said in a tweet that its experts were “working hard to clarify all outstanding issues with the company.” It did not elaborate on what those issues were. Moderna also declined to comment.Early results of large, still unfinished studies show both the Moderna and the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccines appear safe and strongly protective, although Moderna’s is easier to handle since it doesn’t need to be stored at ultra-frozen temperatures.The United States, Canada and Israel have already approved use of the Moderna vaccine. The US gave it the green light for emergency use in people over 18 years on Dec. 18, followed by Canada five days later with an interim authorization also for people over 18. Israel authorized the vaccine on Monday.If the EU agency joins the list, its decision will have to be confirmed by the bloc’s executive commission in Brussels before vaccinations with the Moderna shot can begin.Moderna said Monday that it is increasing its estimate for global vaccine production in 2021 from 500 to 600 million doses. The company said it is “continuing to invest and add staff to build up to potentially 1 billion doses for 2021.”Both Moderna’s and Pfizer-BioNTech’s shots are mRNA vaccines, made with a groundbreaking new technology. They don’t contain any coronavirus – meaning they cannot cause infection. Instead, they use a piece of genetic code that trains the immune system to recognize the spike protein on the surface of the virus, ready to attack if the real thing comes along.The EU officially began giving out Pfizer-BioNTech vaccination shots on Dec. 27, but the speed of each nation’s inoculation program has varied widely. France vaccinated around 500 people in the first week, while Germany vaccinated 200,000. The Dutch were only beginning to give out vaccine shots Wednesday, the last EU nation to start doing so.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/european-medicines-agency-ponders-approval-for-moderna-s-covid-19-vaccine/story-TDDa4flRnC8sOqM61dg9OJ.html
06-01-2021||World||Democrats win one Georgia runoff election, poised to pick the second||In the decisive battle for the US Senate control, Democrat Raphael Warnock defeated incumbent Kelly Loeffler by more than 40,000 votes and Jon Ossoff, the other Democrat, led David Perdue, the sitting Republican senator, by over 3,600.Victories by Warnock and Ossoff — if and when the second happens — will raise the number of Democrats in the Senate from current 48 to 50, splitting the majority in the 100-member chamber with Republicans. But with Vice-President-elect Kamala Harris’s tie-breaking vote as president of the Senate, Democrats will be in control.Democrats will wrest control of the Senate from Republicans and complete a trifecta, with the House of Representatives and the White House already in the bag, starting January 20.With both chambers of Congress in Democratic control, President-elect Joe Biden will have an easier time pursuing his legislative agenda. And the Senate win, on its own, will allow his nominees to be confirmed easily, especially those that Republicans were threatening to block.“We were told we couldn’t win this election, but tonight, we proved that with hope, hard work, and the people by our side, anything is possible,” said Warnock in a brief victory speech. “May my story be an inspiration to some young person who is trying to grasp and grab hold of the American dream.”Warnock will be the first African American senator from Georgia. He is reverend of the historic Ebenezer Baptist Church of Atlanta, which was once led by Martin Luther King Jr, the civil rights leader. And Ossoff, a journalist and documentary filmmaker, will be the first Jewish senator from Georgia. His campaign said in a statement, which was released shortly before he overtook Perdue, “When all the votes are counted, we fully expect that Jon Ossoff will have won this election to represent Georgia in the United States Senate. The outstanding vote is squarely in parts of the state where Jon’s performance has been dominant. We look forward to seeing the process through in the coming hours and moving ahead so Jon can start fighting for all Georgians in the US Senate.”Outgoing President Donald Trump was tracking the run-offs — as it seemed from his tweets, when he pointed to some technical difficulties during counting — but he was preoccupied with his efforts to overturn his own election defeat o Biden. He tweeted about a rally he was to address on Wednesday before congress begins the process certify Biden’s election, which his Republican allies will try to block, and fail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/democrats-win-one-georgia-runoff-election-poised-to-pick-the-second/story-ULFdO7FWAd794H221drtIO.html
06-01-2021||World||Kim Jong Un urges ‘big leap forward’ at rare North Korea congress||Leader Kim Jong Un issued a dire warning at North Korea’s first ruling party congress in five years, saying development plans fell far short of their goals and the party would explore a “new path” for making a “big leap forward.”The days-long Workers’ Party Congress -- convened to draft a new economic plan -- began shortly after Kim skipped his usual New Year’s Day address. In opening remarks Tuesday, Kim said the party’s previous five-year development plan, which ended last year, missed its targets due to both “internal and external challenges,” according to the official Korean Central News Agency.“The goals we set were immensely underachieved in almost all sectors,” Kim said, according to KCNA, making a rare admission of fault by planners.Remarks reported by state media didn’t mention any plans by Kim to revive stalled negotiations with the US to curtail his nuclear arms program in exchange for easing sanctions choking the state’s paltry economy. The gathering of 5,000 delegates and party officials is being closely watched for clues to how Kim will approach the incoming administration of US President-elect Joe Biden.Koh Yu-hwan, president of a government-funded Korea Institute for National Unification think tank in Seoul, said North Korea would probably hint at its US and South Korea strategy in later congress meetings.“North Korea may have calculated that the sanctions regime will last for a while,” Koh said. “It is finding problems internally to speed up the economic recovery, things North Korea can do during the sanctions regime.”Kim is one of the few world leaders yet to congratulate -- or even acknowledge -- Biden’s defeat of President Donald Trump, who dispensed with decades of US foreign policy to hold three meetings with the North Korean leader. There was no mention of the president-elect in the initial accounts of the event.Biden’s camp has signaled more room for negotiations, and the president-elect’s choice for secretary of state, Antony Blinken, has backed a negotiated settlement with North Korea that first freezes and then rolls back its nuclear program in return for rewards.State media also didn’t explain what Kim’s “big leap forward” would entail, other than that the congress would lay the groundwork for improving living standards. The term evoked the Mao Zedong’s “Great Leap Forward” in neighboring China, a disastrous attempt to catch up with the industrial powerhouses of the West that contributed to mass famines.The meeting, where leadership changes are expected, comes as Kim’s battered economy was dealt further blows by natural disasters and his decision to shut borders due to the coronavirus. Gross domestic product likely shrank by 8.5% in 2020, according to a projection by Fitch Solutions, leaving it smaller than when Kim took power in 2011 with a pledge to improve people’s living standards.Kim has few options to turn around finances but a United Nations Security Council report said he has used illegal ship-to-ship transfers of contraband and cyber-crimes to earn money.“He’s groping in the darkness for a solution,” said Jo Dong-ho, a professor of North Korean economic studies at Seoul’s Ewha Womans University. Jo added it’s highly unlikely Kim can open up like China and Vietnam because that would first involve nuclear concessions to the US-- a gatekeeper of sanctions.Images in state media showed Kim’s sister, Kim Yo Jong seated a row behind the leader, easing recent speculation among observers that her power had been clipped after she led a contentious pressure campaign against South Korea.Kim Jong Un also indicated that purges of cadres could be underway. Last year, he dressed down officials for falling short of goals, most prominently in July when he lashed out at the “careless budgeting” for a showcase hospital construction project in Pyongyang that had fallen behind schedule.The project appears to have been hit by a shortage of building materials, underscoring the difficulty he faces to improve living conditions while toiling under sanctions.Kim’s most recent public speech -- at a military parade in October -- featured a rare show of emotion, with the leader appearing to cry as he talked about the country’s economic struggles under international sanctions. He also rolled out several new weapons designed to strike US and allied forces, including what is believed to be the world’s largest road-mobile intercontinental ballistic missile.“I am skeptical he will discuss the new Biden administration in detail, if he even mentions it explicitly, that is,” said Rachel Minyoung Lee, an independent political analyst who used to work for the US government in areas related to North Korea. “Kim will probably want to maintain flexibility as the new US administration formulates its North Korea policy,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/kim-jong-un-urges-big-leap-forward-at-rare-north-korea-congress/story-yMM6h9x7vt7UBnz2Wajl4O.html
06-01-2021||World||India-American business group urges Joe Biden to ease restrictions on H-1B visa||A top India-centric American business advocacy group has urged the incoming Biden administration to ease the restrictions on H-1B visas and provide green cards to higher education students with science and mathematics degrees to meet the increasing demand for IT professionals in the country. On December 31, outgoing US President Donald Trump extended a freeze on the most sought-after H-1B visas along with other types of foreign work visas by three months to March 31, affecting a large number of Indian IT professionals who were issued visas by the US government for the fiscal year 2021. President-elect Joe Biden, a Democrat, has promised to lift the suspension on H-1B visas, saying Trump’s immigration policies are cruel. “It is more of a legislative issue. We have basically recommended to the Biden administration, one, is ease up the H-1B (visa), but at the same time, every STEM (science, technology, engineering and mathematics) PhD graduating, should be given a Green Card, so that they stay and contribute from day one as a taxpayer and also to the growth of the economy,” Mukesh Aghi, president of US-India Strategic and Partnership Forum told PTI in an interview. “That’s the position, we still are very supportive of. And I think the sentiment seems to be the same with the Biden administration,” said Aghi, based on the interactions he has had with members of the Biden Transition Team. Biden is scheduled to be inaugurated as the 46th US President on January 20. Responding to a question, Aghi said the number of H-1B visas issued every year should be driven by the market demands. At this point of time, the current figure of 65,000 H-1B visas in addition to another 20,000 to those foreign nationals with graduation from a US university is quite inadequate to meet the huge demand of IT professionals in the US, he noted.Currently there is a shortage of 1 million IT professionals in the US. At the same time, he asserted, there is a need to ensure that the local job environment continues. Supporting the farm laws in India, Aghi said the three new legislations recently enacted are “the right thing to do.” Today the farmer in India gets 24 cents to a dollar for his produce, he said. In the era of technology, farmers need to have choices to be able to sell their produce to ‘mandis’ or to be able to sell to other geographies as well. The farm bill provides farmers with such an option, he explained. “It is just providing choices and in any economy choices are healthy. At the same time, if somebody is protesting diverse choices, in a peaceful manner, then we support it,” he said. But at the end of the day, in an agriculture-based economy, one has to figure out how to double the farmers’ income, expand job creation and improve productivity. “We strongly believe the farm bill supports that vision. People will object to it, but that’s normal in a good democracy,” he said. Aghi said the Covid-19 crisis and the current change in administration in the US provides India an opportunity to look at the Biden administration in a positive manner. “The crisis with China has brought to India the message that ‘we will not treat you as an equal partner’; sends a message to the leadership in India to look at the Biden Administration in a very, very positive manner,” he said. “It also sends a message to the Biden Administration that with the current scenario, which is a geopolitical one, India can be a reliable partner; India can stand up to the threat of aggressive China, which no other country has stood up to. Both countries have a common factor here,” Aghi said. “So, I think the current Covid-19 crisis where India can play a strong role in the vaccine production on producing cheaper generic drugs, not only for the US, but worldwide provides an equal partnership. I think India and the Biden administration will reach out to each other and come with some kind of an understanding early on, rather than waiting on and making sure that there is a win-win partnership here,” Aghi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/india-american-business-group-urges-joe-biden-to-ease-restrictions-on-h-1b-visa/story-JIUs2lbSzhOahRcEqsDM9J.html
06-01-2021||World||Japan emergency may last months as critics say steps too narrow||Restrictions set to be imposed under Japan’s state of emergency could last months, with both government advisers and critics of its strategy calling for broader steps than current proposals.Japan is set to declare an emergency as early as Thursday in Tokyo and three surrounding areas, with relatively narrow restrictions focused on reducing infections at bars and restaurants. But as in spring, the declaration may drag on if those moves fail to change people’s behavior, experts contend. Tokyo’s new virus cases are set to top 1,500 in a new record Wednesday, raising further doubts over the effectiveness of the expected measures.Lifting the state of emergency in less than a month would be “next to impossible,” Shigeru Omi, the head of the panel of experts advising the government, said on Tuesday. “It’ll need a little longer -- March or April, I’m not sure.”Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga has called for a more focused state of emergency than that which devastated the economy last spring. He’s seeking to tackle the spread of coronavirus infections at restaurants that have been a primary source of the current surge, while limiting the scope of the restrictions to reduce the economic harm.Despite saying that a rerun of the spring emergency wasn’t necessary, Omi called for moves that would boost the effectiveness of restrictions on eateries, including encouraging remote work. Suga has at times given short shrift to the panel’s recommendations, particularly over a travel subsidy program that continued to run even as the current wave surged.While restrictions are envisioned to last for a month, the government plans to set in advance the specific conditions for lifting the emergency, with areas needing to return to “Stage 3” on a tiered system that measures criteria such as infection numbers and hospital conditions, the Nikkei reported.Omi’s calls were echoed by Hiroshi Nishiura, an expert in mathematical modeling of infectious diseases at Kyoto University who was instrumental in defining the “Three C’s” strategy to avoid the places infections were most likely to spread.“At a minimum it will take close to two months” to bring things under control, he told public broadcaster NHK. Nishiura published a model predicting that limiting steps to bars and restaurants would not sufficiently reduce the transmission number and would instead keep cases at their current level. Steps similar to the first state of emergency would cut cases in Tokyo to fewer than 100 by the end of February, according to the model.Kentaro Iwata, a Japanese infectious disease expert who has clashed heads with policy makers before, also said broader steps were required.“The layers of infections have already spread too much, and intervening in restaurants isn’t an effective policy,” he wrote on Twitter. “The worst thing to do would be to have a watered-down state of emergency.”Iwata drew headlines in February for suggesting Tokyo may become a “second Wuhan” and called for a full lockdown to control the virus in spring, a step which ultimately proved unnecessary.Higher CaseloadWhile the government is keen to avoid those broader steps, in doing so it runs the same risk that countries in Europe found when attempting to impose a “lockdown lite” in autumn. Japan is entering the current state of emergency with infections in Tokyo averaging nearly 1,000 over the past seven days, though cases per capita are still less than a 10th of those seen in the UK, which has also returned to its strictest lockdown.Japan won praise for its early tackling of the virus, relying on public cooperation as its constitution makes European-style enforced lockdowns impossible. While critics at the time contended the steps were too light, the country ultimately exited the state of emergency in just six weeks, and avoided a second one during a summer surge.Many factors this time are different. Japan left the first emergency just as the summer was beginning. But January and February are the coldest months of the year in the Tokyo region, making ventilation more difficult and providing a more preferable environment for the disease -- something other nations such as South Korea have also had to contend with.The country may also struggle to enlist public cooperation the same way it did in spring. Officials have fretted that public concern over the virus was dropping, while many bars and restaurants, already pushed to the edge over the past year, may be reluctant to cooperate with requests to close.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/japan-emergency-may-last-months-as-critics-say-steps-too-narrow/story-0TDeaLaOzKzx2lYdktmjYK.html
06-01-2021||World||Mike Pence told Donald Trump he lacks power to challenge election results||Vice President Mike Pence has told Donald Trump that he lacked the power to challenge Vice President-elect Joe Biden’s electoral victory despite the US president’s insistence that he did not, according to a media report.The New York Times reported on Tuesday that Pence delivered the message to Trump during his weekly lunch with the president. Pence is set to preside over the US Senate on Wednesday as it receives the results of the state-by-state Electoral College that determines the winner of presidential elections. Biden, a Democrat, beat Trump 306-232 in the Electoral College and in the popular vote by more than 7 million ballots. Trump, a Republican, has not conceded the election, reiterating unverified claims that the November 3 presidential polls were rigged. Dozens of lawsuits by his campaign challenging election results have failed in US courts. “Vice President Mike Pence told President Trump on Tuesday that he did not believe he had the power to block congressional certification of Joseph R. Biden Jr.’s victory in the presidential election despite Mr Trump’s baseless insistence that he did,” the daily reported, citing unnamed people briefed on the conversation. Trump, however, has decried the report as “fake news”, asserting that Pence never told him what the report said. “The New York Times report regarding comments Vice President Pence supposedly made to me today is fake news. He never said that. The Vice President and I are in total agreement that the Vice President has the power to act,” Trump said in a statement issued by his campaign. “The November 3 election was corrupt in contested states, and in particular it was not in accordance with the Constitution in that they made large scale changes to election rules and regulations as dictated by local judges and politicians, not by state legislators. This means that it was illegal,” Trump said. “Our Vice President has several options under the US Constitution. He can decertify the results or send them back to the states for change and certification. He can also decertify the illegal and corrupt results and send them to the House of Representatives for the one vote for one state tabulation,” Trump added. “The Vice President has the power to reject fraudulently chosen electors,” Trump said in a tweet on Tuesday.“If Vice President @Mike_Pence comes through for us, we will win the Presidency. Many States want to decertify the mistake they made in certifying incorrect & even fraudulent numbers in a process NOT approved by their State Legislatures (which it must be). Mike can send it back!” he said in another tweet. Pence has not made any statement in the public so far. However, his staffers noted that the vice president supports the right of lawmakers to raise objections and debate. “Vice President Pence shares the concerns of millions of Americans about voter fraud and irregularities in the last election,” Pence chief of staff Marc Short said in a statement. “The Vice President welcomes the efforts of members of the House and Senate to use the authority they have under the law to raise objections and bring forward evidence before the Congress and the American people on January 6th,” Short said. According to The New York Times, Pence has spent the past several days in a delicate dance, seeking at once to convey to Trump that he does not have the authority to overturn the results of the election, while also placating the President to avoid a rift that could torpedo any hopes the Vice President has of running in 2024 as Trump’s loyal heir. “Even as he sought to make clear that he does not have the power Mr. Trump seems to think he has, Mr. Pence also indicated to the president that he would keep studying the issue up until the final hours before the joint session of Congress begins at 1 pm Wednesday, according to the people briefed on their conversation,” the report said. “One option being considered, according to a person close to Mr Trump, was having Mr Pence acknowledge the president’s claims about election fraud in some form during one or more of the Senate debates about the results from particular states before the certification. Mr Pence will preside over those debates,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/mike-pence-told-donald-trump-he-lacks-power-to-challenge-election-results/story-LnL0iUzYRQuv7ZjWvHJIHK.html
06-01-2021||World||No charges against Wisconsin officer who shot Jacob Blake||A Wisconsin prosecutor declined Tuesday to file charges against a white police officer who shot a Black man in the back in Kenosha, concluding he couldn’t disprove the officer’s contention that he acted in self-defence because he feared the man would stab him.The decision, met with swift criticism from civil rights advocates and some public officials, threatened to reignite protests that rocked the city after the August 23 shooting that left Jacob Blake paralyzed. Gov. Tony Evers, a Democrat, called the decision “further evidence that our work is not done” and called for people to work together for equity. Lt. Gov. Mandela Barnes, who is Black, was more pointed on Twitter: “I wish I could say that I’m shocked. It’s another instance in a string of misapplications of justice.”Kenosha County District Attorney Michael Graveley said investigators concluded Blake was carrying a knife when police responded to a report he was trying to steal a car. Officer Rusten Sheskey said he “feared Jacob Blake was going to stab him with the knife” as he tried to stop Blake from fleeing the scene.“I do not believe the state ... would be able to prove that the privilege of self-defense is not available,” Graveley said.The shooting of Blake, captured on bystander video, turned the nation’s spotlight on Wisconsin during a summer marked by protests over police brutality and racism. More than 250 people were arrested during protests in the days that followed, including then-17-year-old Kyle Rittenhouse, a self-styled medic with an assault rifle who is charged in the fatal shootings of two men and the wounding of a third.Blake family members expressed anger about the charging decision.“This is going to impact this city and this state and this nation for many years to come,” Justin Blake, an uncle, said. “Unless the people rise up and do what they’re supposed to do. This is a government for the people by the people, correct? We talk about this constitution everybody’s supposed to be so committed to, and yet we stand in the state that has the most convictions of African Americans in the United States. So they’re weighing heavy on one side of justice, but they’re allowing police officers to rain down terror on our communities. It’s injust.”Ben Crump, an attorney for Blake’s family, said in a statement the decision “further destroys trust in our justice system” and said he would proceed with a lawsuit. In a later tweet, he questioned whether Blake threatened Sheskey with a knife, saying “nowhere does the video footage show a knife extended and aimed to establish the requisite intent.”A federal civil rights investigation into Blake’s shooting is still underway. Matthew Krueger, the US attorney for Wisconsin’s Eastern District, said the Department of Justice will make its own charging decision.The Blake shooting happened three months after George Floyd died while being restrained by police officers in Minneapolis, a death that was captured on bystander video and sparked outrage and protests that spread across the United States and beyond. The galvanized Black Lives Matter movement put a spotlight on inequitable policing and became a fault line in politics, with President Donald Trump criticizing protesters and aggressively pressing a law-and-order message that he sought to capitalize on in Wisconsin and other swing states.Kenosha, a city of 100,000 on the Wisconsin-Illinois border about 60 miles north of Chicago, braced for renewed protests ahead of the charges, with concrete barricades and metal fencing surrounding the county courthouse, plywood protecting many businesses and the mayor granted power to impose curfews. Evers activated 500 National Guard troops to assist.As temperatures dipped near freezing Tuesday evening, about 20 protesters gathered and marched in an area north of downtown, chanting “No justice, no peace.” About 15 cars, some honking their horns, followed.Vaun Mayer, a 33-year-old activist from Milwaukee who is Black, drove to Kenosha to protest. He said he didn’t expect the officer to be charged, calling Graveley’s decision just the latest in a line of prosecutors failing to charge police officers in Wisconsin.“We’re used to this and we didn’t expect anything different than this,” he said.At a downtown park near the courthouse where hundreds gathered in the days after Blake was shot, there was no sign of any large, organized protests. Abdullah Shabazz, 36, who said he came from nearby Waukegan, Illinois, to show solidarity with the Blake family, blamed the weather.Kris Coleman, 36, of Kenosha, stood nearby livestreaming National Guard troops manning an intersection. He said the city appeared to be better prepared than it was during the summer. “And I’m happy,” he said. Later, a small group of protesters confronted Guard members briefly at the courthouse.Graveley told reporters during a two-hour presentation Tuesday afternoon that investigators determined that the events leading up to the shooting began when the mother of Blake’s children called police and said Blake was about to drive off in her car. Officers determined en route that Blake had a felony warrant out for sexual assault.They arrived to find Blake placing the couple’s three children in the back seat of the woman’s SUV. Graveley said officers had no choice but to arrest him since he was wanted. He said Blake resisted, fighting with the officers as they tried to handcuff him. Officers used a stun gun on him three times to no effect.Noble Wray, a Black former police chief and a use-of-force expert who reviewed the investigation, said Blake had a knife that apparently fell to the ground during the struggle. Blake picked it up and officers disengaged and drew their guns. Blake then tried to get into the SUV, Wray said.“Any officer worth their salt, they’re not going to let someone leave under these circumstances,” Wray said. “This is the stuff Amber Alerts are made of.”Sheskey grabbed the back of Blake’s shirt, Graveley said. Blake turned and moved the knife toward Sheskey, the officer told investigators, leading him to believe his life was in danger, the district attorney said.Sheskey fired seven times, hitting Blake in the back four times and in the side three times, leaving him paralyzed from the waist down. Graveley said the shots in the side show Blake had twisted toward the officer.Graveley showed reporters an enlarged photo of what he said was Blake’s knife, adding that Blake acknowledged to investigators he had it. The district attorney walked reporters through how he would have prosecuted the case, saying jurors would have had to put themselves in Sheskey’s position and that the officer’s self-defense claims would have held up given the circumstances of the case.Jeffrey Cramer, a former federal prosecutor who has prosecuted officers, said Graveley presented a compelling case that showed why charges are not appropriate.“There isn’t anyone who would like to be in that officer’s shoes -- but in that moment, he used what I feel was reasonable force to end the threat,” Cramer said. For those who disagree, he said, “What should he have done, let him drive away with a child in the back, let themselves get stabbed? … The only answer reasonably is -- they need to defend themselves.”The officers were not equipped with body cameras.Sheskey, 31, has been the subject of five internal investigations since he joined the Kenosha department in 2013, including three reprimands for crashing his squad car three times over three years. He has also earned 16 awards, letters or formal commendations, his personnel file shows.Rittenhouse, who was among armed people who took to Kenosha streets during the violence and said he was there to help protect businesses, faces multiple charges including intentional homicide. Bystander video showed Rittenhouse shooting Joseph Rosenbaum and Anthony Huber and wounding a third man. Rittenhouse, who is white, has claimed the three men attacked him and he fired in self-defence. Conservatives across the country have been raising money for his legal team. Rittenhouse was 17 at the time of the shooting.Rittenhouse pleaded not guilty to all charges at a hearing Tuesday.Prosecutors dropped the sexual assault charge against Blake in November as part of deal in which he pleaded guilty to two misdemeanor counts of disorderly conduct. He was sentenced to two years’ probation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/no-charges-against-wisconsin-officer-who-shot-jacob-blake/story-d4zsl8y6eovUBqeH8wiiHJ.html
06-01-2021||World||One in 50 now infected, UK steps up coronavirus vaccination drive||More than 1 million people in England now have coronavirus, the British government said, as medics race to vaccinate the most vulnerable against the rapidly spreading disease.Rocketing case rates from the new virus strain mean one person in every 50 in England now has Covid-19, while in London one in 30 is infected, official survey results showed.Prime Minister Boris Johnson unveiled the statistics as he vowed to speed up the government’s vaccination program, in order eventually to lift the latest lockdown. He said 23% of all over-80s in England have now been given a dose of a Covid-19 vaccine, meaning some of those at the greatest risk are starting to get the protection they need.Johnson underlined his promise to vaccinate almost 14 million people at the highest risk and carers by mid-February. He said 1.3 million people across the UK had already received the first of two shots.But he signaled there could be many more months of restrictions ahead, saying current plans to end England’s national lockdown in mid-February were subject to a “lot of caveats, a lot of ifs.” England’s chief medical officer, Chris Whitty, said measures could be in place next winter, adding: “We shouldn’t kid ourselves this just disappears with spring.”Invisible ShieldThe Prime Minister was speaking at a press conference Tuesday, a day after he put the country into its third national lockdown since the pandemic began. The rest of Europe is also buckling under the strain of a resurgent pandemic, with Germany fighting high infection rates and encountering difficulties rolling out vaccines.The new national restrictions in the UK threaten to push the economy into a double dip recession, prompting Johnson’s government to announce another package of emergency support for businesses, worth more than 4.6 billion pounds ($6.2 billion).“You all want to be sure that we in government are now using every second of this lockdown to put that invisible shield around the elderly and the vulnerable in the form of vaccination, and so to begin to bring this crisis to an end,” Johnson said. “Yes it is a huge effort. It’s the biggest vaccination program in the history of this country.”He defended his decision to order the country to stay at home again, and pointed to latest infection figures showing record levels of coronavirus in the population. “The number of patients in hospitals in England is now 40% higher than at the first peak in April,” he said. “When everybody looks at the position people understand overwhelmingly that we have no choice.”The figure of one in 50 people infected is an estimate based on a mass testing survey that aims to find people who have infections but no symptoms. It is significantly higher than the infection rate implied by the national totals from all positive test results, which mostly rely on people to seek tests when they show symptoms.Passenger TestingBritish officials are in talks over what more is needed to protect the UK from the pandemic, including potentially new restrictions at ports and airports on non-essential travel. At the press conference, Johnson said a new testing regime will be introduced. “We will be bringing in measures to ensure that we test people coming into this country and prevent the virus from being readmitted,” he said.The lockdown followed warnings from government medical advisers that the National Health Service could be overwhelmed within the next three weeks unless urgent action was taken.At Tuesday’s press briefing, Whitty said the “hope” is the new lockdown will be enough to bring the pandemic under control. “If people stick to those rules really strongly and at the same time, the NHS is vaccinating as fast as it can, then our hope is the lockdown will be enough. But we’ve all got to do that.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/one-in-50-now-infected-uk-steps-up-coronavirus-vaccination-drive/story-U5S8sToIH9boZ6EMcT5pnJ.html
06-01-2021||World||Democrat Raphael Warnock claims victory in one of two crunch US Senate runoffs||Democrat Raphael Warnock won one of Georgia’s two Senate runoffs Wednesday, becoming the first Black senator in his state’s history and putting the Senate majority within the Democrats’ reach.A pastor who spent the past 15 years leading the Atlanta church where Martin Luther King Jr. preached, Warnock defeated Republican incumbent Kelly Loeffler. It was a stinging rebuke of outgoing President Donald Trump, who made one of his final trips in office to Georgia to rally his loyal base behind Loeffler and the Republican running for the other seat, David Perdue.The focus now shifts to the second race between Perdue and Democrat Jon Ossoff. That contest was too early to call as votes were still being counted. If Ossoff wins, Democrats will have complete control of Congress, strengthening President-elect Joe Biden’s standing as he prepares to take office on Jan. 20.Warnock’s victory is a symbol of a striking shift in Georgia’s politics as the swelling number of diverse, college-educated voters flex their power in the heart of the Deep South. It marks the end of nearly two decades in which Democrats have been shut out of statewide office and follows Biden’s victory in November, when he became the first Democratic presidential candidate to carry the state since 1992.Warnock, 51, acknowledged his improbable victory in a message to supporters early Wednesday, citing his family’s experience with poverty. His mother, he said, used to pick “somebody else’s cotton” as a teenager.“The other day, because this is America, the 82-year-old hands that used to pick somebody else’s cotton picked her youngest son to be a United States senator,” he said. “Tonight, we proved with hope, hard work and the people by our side, anything is possible.”Loeffler refused to concede in a brief message to supporters shortly after midnight.“We’ve got some work to do here. This is a game of inches. We’re going to win this election,” insisted Loeffler, a 50-year-old former businesswoman who was appointed to the Senate less than a year ago by the state’s governor.Loeffler, who remains a Georgia senator until the results of Tuesday’s election are finalized, said she would return to Washington on Wednesday morning to join a small group of senators planning to challenge Congress’ vote to certify Biden’s victory.“We are going to keep fighting for you,” Loeffler said, “This is about protecting the American dream.”Georgia’s other runoff election pitted Perdue, a 71-year-old former business executive who held his Senate seat until his term expired on Sunday, against Ossoff, a former congressional aide and journalist. At just 33 years old, Ossoff would be the Senate’s youngest member.Trump’s false claims of voter fraud cast a dark shadow over the runoff elections, which were held only because no candidate hit the 50% threshold in the general election. He attacked the state’s election chief on the eve of the election and raised the prospect that some votes might not be counted even as votes were being cast Tuesday afternoon.Republican state officials on the ground reported no significant problems.This week’s elections mark the formal finale to the turbulent 2020 election season more than two months after the rest of the nation finished voting. The unusually high stakes transformed Georgia, once a solidly Republican state, into one of the nation’s premier battlegrounds for the final days of Trump’s presidency -- and likely beyond.Both contests tested whether the political coalition that fueled Biden’s November victory was an anti-Trump anomaly or part of a new electoral landscape. To win in Tuesday’s elections — and in the future -- Democrats needed strong African American support.Drawing on his popularity with Black voters, among other groups, Biden won Georgia’s 16 electoral votes by about 12,000 votes out of 5 million cast in November.Trump’s claims about voter fraud in the 2020 election, while meritless, resonated with Republican voters in Georgia. About 7 in 10 agreed with his false assertion that Biden was not the legitimately elected president, according to AP VoteCast, a survey of more than 3,600 voters in the runoff elections.Election officials across the country, including the Republican governors in Arizona and Georgia, as well as Trump’s former attorney general, William Barr, have confirmed that there was no widespread fraud in the November election. Nearly all the legal challenges from Trump and his allies have been dismissed by judges, including two tossed by the Supreme Court, where three Trump-nominated justices preside.Even with Trump’s claims, voters in both parties were drawn to the polls because of the high stakes. AP VoteCast found that 6 in 10 Georgia voters say Senate party control was the most important factor in their vote.In Atlanta’s Buckhead neighborhood, 37-year-old Kari Callaghan said she voted “all Democrat” on Tuesday, an experience that was new for her.“I’ve always been Republican, but I’ve been pretty disgusted by Trump and just the way the Republicans are working,” she said. “I feel like for the Republican candidates to still stand there with Trump and campaign with Trump feels pretty rotten. This isn’t the conservative values that I grew up with.”But 56-year-old Will James said he voted “straight GOP.”He said he was concerned by the Republican candidates’ recent support of Trump’s challenges of the presidential election results in Georgia, “but it didn’t really change the reasons I voted.”“I believe in balance of power, and I don’t want either party to have a referendum, basically,” he said.Even before Tuesday, Georgia had shattered its turnout record for a runoff with more than 3 million votes by mail or during in-person advance voting in December. The state’s previous record was 2.1 million in a 2008 Senate runoff.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/democrat-claims-victory-in-one-of-two-crunch-us-senate-runoffs/story-MHXIbLUrnUdYbte5TS6BcO.html
06-01-2021||World||‘Assault on universal rights’: Incoming US secretary of state on Hong Kong arrests||President-elect Joe Biden’s pick for U.S. secretary of state denounced Hong Kong’s arrest of dozens of opposition figures under a controversial national security law, an unprecedented crackdown that included an American lawyer.Police said they had swept up about 50 people in the Wednesday operation. Those arrested included several prominent former lawmakers and allegations centered on an informal primary that drew more than 600,000 voters in July to choose candidates for a September legislative election that was subsequently postponed by the government.“The sweeping arrests of pro-democracy demonstrators are an assault on those bravely advocating for universal rights,” tweeted Antony Blinken, Biden’s nominee for secretary of state. “The Biden-Harris administration will stand with the people of Hong Kong and against Beijing’s crackdown on democracy.”Police arrested lawyer John Clancey, who served as treasurer for the primary organizers, according to Jonathan Man, a partner at Hong Kong’s Ho Tse Wai & Partners, which has handled hundreds of protest cases and where Clancey is a solicitor. Man said Clancey is a U.S. citizen, potentially providing a new source of tensions between Beijing and Washington.Clancey is also the chairman of the Asian Human Rights Commission and the Asian Legal Resource Center and a founding member of the Executive Committee of the China Human Rights Lawyers Concern Group, according to his Ho Tse Wai biography page.What Are the New Laws China Has Passed for Hong Kong?: QuickTakeThe mass arrests of largely moderate pro-democracy campaigners accelerate an ongoing political crackdown in the Asian financial hub, which has prompted condemnation from foreign governments, U.S. sanctions and the suspension of numerous extradition treaties with Hong Kong. The move comes as the outgoing Trump administration continues to hit Beijing over its assertive policies in the city and as Biden prepares to take office this month, with China representing one of his administration’s main foreign policy challenges.“This is a total sweep of all opposition leaders,” said Victoria Hui, an associate professor at the University of Notre Dame specializing in Hong Kong politics. “If running for office and trying to win elections means subversion, it is clear that the NSL is aimed at the total subjugation of Hong Kong people. There should be no expectation of elections in any sense that we know it if and when elections are held in the future.”Former lawmakers Alvin Yeung, James To, Andrew Wan and Lam Cheuk-ting, as well as prominent academic and activist Benny Tai, were arrested by the police’s national security branch on allegations of subversion, according to Facebook postings and media reports. Also detained was former lawmaker Claudia Mo, a leading opposition figure and one of the city’s most outspoken critics of China’s policies in Hong Kong.The national security law was imposed by Beijing on the former British colony in June, sparking international condemnation led by the U.S. that Beijing was reneging on promises to guarantee the city’s unique freedoms following its return to Chinese rule.While Chinese officials have justified the legislation -- which bars subversion, terrorism, secession and collusion with foreign forces -- as a necessary tool to quell local unrest and restore stability to the city after historic protests in 2019, the law has so far mainly been used against non-violent political opponents and dissidents.Pro-government lawmaker Holden Chow tweeted that those arrested Wednesday had violated the security law because they had a “clear aim to paralyze” the local government and were threatening to “remove the Chinese sovereignty over Hong Kong.” Secretary for Mainland and Constitutional Affairs Erick Tsang said ahead of the primary last July that it may violate the national security legislation.At the time, Tai dismissed such criticism of the primary as “­absurd.”Fraught PrimaryThe opposition primary contest at the heart of the latest police roundup drew 610,000 residents to the polls -- more than 13% of the city’s registered voters -- in a procedural exercise common in democracies worldwide. The turnout underscored the momentum generated by Hong Kong’s historic protest movement, on which the pro-democracy opposition was hoping to capitalize in a Legislative Council election originally scheduled for September.Opposition figures hoped to access a provision in the city’s charter to force Chief Executive Carrie Lam to resign by voting down her budget. The primary was condemned by China’s top agencies for Hong Kong as an “unlawful ­manipulation” of the city’s election system and a violation of the national security law.Hong Kong Public Opinion Research Institute deputy CEO Kim-Wah Chung said it had destroyed voters’ personal information within days of the primary, local outlet RTHK reported Wednesday.Hong Kong’s government first disqualified a number of opposition figures and then delayed the election by a full year, citing the coronavirus.U.S. Secretary of State Michael Pompeo said at the time that there was “no valid reason for such a lengthy delay,” and that the “regrettable action confirms that Beijing has no intention of upholding the commitments it made to the Hong Kong people.”Hong Kong’s Courts Are the Last Check on Beijing’s Growing Power“The political purge continues in Hong Kong,” said U.S.-based activist Samuel Chu, the managing director of the Hong Kong Democracy Council. The Chinese Communist Party “is remaking the rule of law and government in Hong Kong in its own image as a one-party authoritarian regime with lightning speed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/assault-on-universal-rights-incoming-us-secretary-of-state-on-hong-kong-arrests/story-cN4lrKpm3sAjwUtfyFw2NK.html
06-01-2021||World||New resolution by Chinese Communist Party to strangle dissent, freedom of expression||The Chinese Communist Party (CCP) on Monday introduced new rules that banned cadres from expressing opinions and dissenting views from its own ranks, reported South China Morning Post (SCMP).Jun Mai, writing for SCMP, stated that the revised rule book said that cadres can make complaints about their superiors but was prohibited from airing them in public and were also banned from expressing opinions that are ‘not consistent’ with the decisions of the central leadership.The new rules also officially incorporate references to Xi Jinping’s “Thought on Socialism with Chinese Characteristics for a New Era”, as the leader’s ideology is officially known - a concept that has already been written into the constitution, reported SCMP.The new rules were issued just six months ahead of the Communist Party’s centenary in July and mark an attempt to inject new life into the party rule book which was last updated 16 years ago.The new rule book made clear that the party that has about 92 million members will not tolerate dissenting views from its own ranks.“A member of the party must not publicly express opinions that are inconsistent with decisions made by the central leadership,” said Article 16 of the revised regulations on safeguarding the rights of party members, reported SCMP.Article 11 of the new rules stipulate that while party members are entitled to report misconduct by other members, including those who hold a higher rank, they must not disseminate such information at will and must not do so on the internet, reported SCMP.State media hailed the revised regulations, which came into effect in 1995 and were amended nine years later. The amended party rules were described by state media as ‘boosting democracy within the party’.However, Wang Qishan in an article published in People’s Daily, the party’s mouthpiece, in 2014, then the party’s top corruption buster and now vice-president, argued that joining the Communist Party means voluntarily giving up certain rights and freedoms.The amended regulations were published on the first working day after the New Year break of 2021, a year that carries tremendous political significance for Beijing as CCP is planning extensive celebrations in the run-up to its centenary celebrations on July 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/new-resolution-by-chinese-communist-party-to-strangle-dissent-freedom-of-expression/story-bL3JJ4QZQb4MTeRz7gt2MJ.html
06-01-2021||World||Congress set to confirm Joe Biden’s electoral win over Donald Trump||President Donald Trump’s extraordinary effort to overturn the presidential election is going before Congress as lawmakers convene for a joint session to confirm the Electoral College vote won by Joe Biden.The typically routine proceeding Wednesday will be anything but, a political confrontation unseen since the aftermath of the Civil War as Trump mounts a desperate effort stay in office. The president’s Republican allies in the House and Senate plan to object to the election results, heeding supporters’ plea to “fight for Trump” as he stages a rally outside the White House. It’s tearing the party apart.The longshot effort is all but certain to fail, defeated by bipartisan majorities in Congress prepared to accept the results. Biden, who won the Electoral College 306-232, is set to be inaugurated Jan. 20.“The most important part is that, in the end, democracy will prevail here,” Democratic Sen. Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota, among those managing the proceedings, said in an interview.The joint session of Congress, required by law, will convene at 1 p.m. EST under a watchful, restless nation — months after the the Nov. 3 election, two weeks before the inauguration’s traditional peaceful transfer of power and against the backdrop of a surging COVID-19 pandemic.Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, who warned his party off this challenge, is expected to deliver early remarks. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, set to gavel proceedings on her side of the Capitol, called it a day of “enormous historic significance.” It is about “guaranteeing trust in our democratic system,” she said in a letter to colleagues.But it is Vice President Mike Pence who will be closely watched as he presides over the session.Despite Trump’s repeated claims of voter fraud, election officials and his own former attorney general have said there were no problems on a scale that would change the outcome. All the states have certified their results as fair and accurate, by Republican and Democratic officials alike.Pence has a largely ceremonial role, opening the sealed envelopes from the states after they are carried in mahogany boxes used for the occasion, and reading the results aloud. But he is under growing pressure from Trump to tip it to the president’s favor, despite having no power to affect the outcome.While other vice presidents, including Al Gore and Richard Nixon, also presided over their own defeats, Pence supports those Republican lawmakers mounting challenges to the 2020 outcome.“I hope that our great vice president comes through for us,” Trump said at a rally in Georgia this week. “He’s a great guy. Of course, if he doesn’t come through, I won’t like him quite as much.”It’s not the first time lawmakers have challenged results. Democrats did in 2017 and 2005. But the intensity of Trump’s challenge is like nothing in modern times, and an outpouring of current and elected GOP officials warn the showdown is sowing distrust in government and eroding Americans’ faith in democracy.“There is no constitutionally viable means for the Congress to overturn an election,” said Sen. Tim Scott, R-S.C., announcing his refusal to join the effort on the eve of the session.Still, more than a dozen Republican senators led by Josh Hawley of Missouri and Ted Cruz of Texas, along with as many as 100 House Republicans, are pressing ahead to raise objections to the state results of Biden’s win.Under the rules of the joint session, any objection to a state’s electoral tally needs to be submitted in writing by at least one member of the House and one of the Senate to be considered. Each objection will force two hours of deliberations in the House and Senate, ensuring a long day.House Republican lawmakers are signing on to objections to the electoral votes in six states — Arizona, Georgia, Nevada, Michigan, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin.Arizona will likely the be the first to be disputed as the state tallies are announced in alphabetical order, and Cruz has said he will join House Republicans in objecting to that state.Hawley has said he will object to the election results from Pennsylvania, almost ensuring a second two-hour debate despite resistance from the state’s Republican senator, Pat Toomey, who said the tally of Biden’s win is accurate.Sen. Kelly Loeffler may challenge the results in her state of Georgia. But it’s unclear if any of the other senators will object to any other state, as lawmakers were still devising a strategy.Democrats have the majority in the House and the Republican-led Senate is divided over the issue. Bipartisan majorities in both chambers are expected to soundly reject the objections.The group led by Cruz is vowing to object unless Congress agreed to form a commission to investigate the election, but that seems unlikely.Those with Cruz are Sens. Ron Johnson of Wisconsin, James Lankford of Oklahoma, Steve Daines of Montana, John Kennedy of Louisiana, Marsha Blackburn of Tennessee, Mike Braun of Indiana, Cynthia Lummis of Wyoming, Roger Marshall of Kansas, Bill Hagerty of Tennessee and Tommy Tuberville of Alabama.Trump has vowed to “fight like hell” to stay in office. He said at a rally in Georgia the electors voting for Biden are “not gonna take this White House!”Many of the Republicans challenging the results said they are trying to give voice to voters back home who don’t trust the outcome of the election and want to see the lawmakers fighting for Trump.Hawley defended his role saying his constituents have been “loud and clear” about their distrust of the election. “It is my responsibility as a senator to raise their concerns,” he wrote to colleagues.As criticism mounted, Cruz insisted his aim was “not to set aside the election” but to investigate the claims of voting problems. He has produced no new evidence.Both Hawley and Cruz are potential 2024 presidential contenders, vying for Trump’s base of supporters.Lawmakers are being told by Capitol officials to arrive early, due to safety precautions with protesters in Washington. Visitors, who typically fill the galleries to watch landmark proceedings, will not be allowed under COVID-19 restrictions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/congress-set-to-confirm-joe-biden-s-electoral-win-over-donald-trump/story-GIB4LEVYBeLCi0MmrX8nKK.html
06-01-2021||World||George W Bush to attend Joe Biden’s inauguration in signal of unity||George W. Bush, the only living Republican former president, will attend the inauguration of Joe Biden later this month, a spokesman said on Tuesday night.Bush, who left office in 2009, will be accompanied by his wife, Laura, according to his chief of staff, Freddy Ford.The couple has gone to the inaugurations of Bush’s successors, Barack Obama and Donald Trump. It remains unclear whether Trump, who continues to insist, without evidence, that widespread fraud denied him re-election, will appear at the event on January 20.“I believe this will be the eighth inauguration they’ve had the privilege of attending -- President Trump’s being the most recent -- and witnessing the peaceful transfer of power is a hallmark of our democracy that never gets old,” Ford said in a statement.Bush, who returned to Texas after his second term ended, has largely stayed out of the political fray that marked the Obama and Trump administrations. His brother Jeb Bush, the former governor of Florida, was defeated by Trump in the 2016 Republican primary contest. Their late father, George H.W. Bush, was the 41st president.The other remaining former presidents are Jimmy Carter, Bill Clinton and Obama. All are Democrats. They gathered, along with Trump, for the elder Bush’s funeral at the Washington National Cathedral in December 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/george-w-bush-to-attend-joe-biden-s-inauguration-in-signal-of-unity/story-SCdTyVjYKbeWFIVq2fxoaO.html
06-01-2021||World||India crosses 150,000 Covid-19 deaths: Here’s where other worst-hit countries stand||India’s death toll due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) reached 150,114 on Wednesday as the Ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) reported that the country had recorded 264 new Covid-19 related fatalities in the last 24 hours. This makes India only the third country to have recorded more than 150,000 deaths due to Covid-19, after the United States and Brazil. Incidentally, these are also the three countries with the highest Covid-19 caseload in the world, with the US on top, followed by India and Brazil respectively.Also Read | Covid-19: India third country to record more than 1.5 lakh deathsHere’s a look at the number of deaths due to Covid-19 in some of the world’s other worst-hit countries:United States of America: The Covid-19 situation in the US has turned grim, despite vaccination drives against the pandemic being carried out. There were more than 3,900 deaths in the previous 24 hours, a new daily record, the Johns Hopkins University said. According to the university’s coronavirus tracker, US’ caseload of Covid-19 currently stands at 21,045,468 of which 357,166 cases have resulted in deaths.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageBrazil: The South American nation is yet to approve a vaccine against Covid-19, even as its caseload has mounted to 7,810,440, according to the Johns Hopkins University tracker. Brazil is nearing 200,000 Covid-19 deaths and its current toll stands at 197,732, the tracker shows.Mexico: Though Mexico is not even among the top 10 countries with highest Covid-19 cases, it’s death toll is the fourth-highest in the world. The Johns Hopkins University tracker shows that Mexico has thus far recorded 128,822 deaths in a national tally of 1,466,490.Russia: The world’s largest country also has the fourth-highest caseload of Covid-19. Russia, which last August, claimed to have developed the world’s first vaccine against Covid-19, called Sputnik V, has a death toll of 58,706, in a national tally of 3,250,713, according to Johns Hopkins.United Kingdom: Currently in the middle of another national lockdown, the United Kingdom has a Covid-19 caseload of 2,782,709, the fifth-highest in the world. 76,428 of these cases have resulted in deaths, the Johns Hopkins’ tracker shows.France and Italy: Among the world’s worst-hit countries, both France and Italy have death tolls lower than that of the UK. While Italy has reported 76,329 deaths in a national tally of 2,181,619, France stands at 66,417 deaths out of a caseload of 2,737,884, according to the Johns Hopkins University tracker.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/india-crosses-150-000-covid-19-deaths-here-s-where-other-worst-hit-countries-stand/story-MJYIpa2hfKUETwV592w4AI.html
06-01-2021||World||US, India have never been closer, says Mike Pompeo||Describing external affairs minister S Jaishankar as “my friend” and “great diplomat”, US secretary of state Michael Pompeo said on Tuesday the United States and India have “never been closer” .“The US relationship with Asia’s most populous democracy has never been closer, from trade to military cooperation and more,” Pompeo wrote in a tweet, which linked to a speech he gave in June 2019 during a visit to New Delhi.In that speech he had said, “We each, India and the United States, should see the world as it is, and see each other for what we are: great democracies, global powers, and good friends. We have the ability to forge a new kind of cooperation that won’t just be good for us, but for the region, and indeed for the entire world.”And then he tweeted a shout out to his Indian counterpart: “The US-India relationship was made all the stronger with a great diplomat and leader as my friend,” he wrote, adding hashtags to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Atlanta rally with President Trump and a Modi campaign slogan: #HowdyModi, #ModiHaitoMumkinHai.Pompeo has been tweeting foreign policy milestones and high points of the Trump administration such as the North Korea talks, which in the end yielded not much, and defended against criticism of being soft on Russia and harsh on European allies. The tweets have been described by some people as a “soft launch” of his run for the White House, which has been widely speculated about, but they also seemed like the secretary of state was a doing farewell run, which he cannot officially affirm because President Donald Trump has not conceded defeat and has continued to claim, falsely, that he won the November election.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-india-have-never-been-closer-says-mike-pompeo/story-A1bpjCht0rVHKRtplDQTGO.html
06-01-2021||World||Despite pressure from Donald Trump,Mike Pence won’t interfere in election count says advisers||Despite growing pressure from President Donald Trump to help overturn his election loss, Vice President Mike Pence plans to stick to his ceremonial duties and not interfere with the election certification when presiding in Congress on Wednesday, advisers said.Trump ramped up pressure on Pence on Tuesday to block Congress’ certification of the November election results in an ongoing attempt to stay in power, after dozens of lawsuits by his campaign challenging election results failed in US courts.But the vice president, a loyal lieutenant during the four years of Trump’s often chaotic presidency, has no plans to attempt to do so, even as he seeks to show support for the Republican president’s quest. Pence is set to preside over a joint session of Congress on Wednesday as it receives the results of the state-by-state Electoral College that determines the winner of presidential elections.President-elect Joe Biden, a Democrat, beat Trump 306-232 in the Electoral College and, in the popular vote, by more than 7 million ballots. Trump has declined to concede the election.US states have already certified the results, and Pence’s role on Wednesday as president of the Senate is to “open all the certificates,” in the presence of the House of Representatives and the Senate, the US Constitution says.Trump has suggested Pence could do more than that. “The Vice President has the power to reject fraudulently chosen electors,” Trump wrote in a tweet on Tuesday, his latest unfounded suggestion that the election was marred by widespread fraud.Pence told Trump on Tuesday he did not believe he had the power to block the certification, according to a source familiar with the subject.Trump’s tweet came after pointed remarks at a campaign rally for Republican US Senate incumbents in Georgia on Monday night, in which he expressed hope that Pence would intervene. “If he doesn’t come through, I won’t like him quite as much,” Trump said. About a dozen Republican senators, as well as dozens of Republicans in the House, plan to object to the certification of the Electoral College results in Congress on Wednesday. The move has virtually no chance of overturning Biden’s victory.‘WILL UPHOLD THE CONSTITUTION’Current and former White House aides said the vice president planned to perform his ceremonial duties. “He will be very supportive of the president, but again he’ll stick to the Constitution,” one former White House official who has regular contact with Pence’s team told Reuters.The vice president would make clear in his statements that he backs Trump, while sticking to the constraints of the role, the former official said.“It is a ceremonial role. It is opening up envelopes and reading the contents of it,” he said. “That’s it.” Pence’s chief of staff, Marc Short, told Reuters on Monday that the vice president “will uphold the Constitution and follow the statutory law.” On Friday, a Trump-appointed judge rejected a lawsuit brought by Republican members of Congress asking Pence to reject Electoral College results, saying they had no standing for such a suit. One Trump adviser said the president had told others he would like Pence to fight harder for him. The vice president has sought, so far, to express his support without repeating the president’s false claims about the election. On Monday, during his own trip to Georgia, Pence said that Republican objections to the election would be heard, but he did not commit to taking action on them.“I share the concerns of millions of Americans about voting irregularities. And I promise you, come this Wednesday, we’ll have our day in Congress. We’ll hear the objections. We’ll hear the evidence,” he said.Following a pattern throughout their partnership, Pence has kept Trump informed about his thinking. The former adviser said Pence likely walked the president through the restrictions of his role, informed by a weekend meeting with a congressional parliamentarian.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/despite-pressure-from-donald-trump-mike-pence-won-t-interfere-in-election-count-says-advisers/story-bF0ldrYmPW62m7KOL6YNEO.html
06-01-2021||World||‘Hard miles’: Pandemic haunts new year as virus growth outpaces vaccines||Despite growing vaccine access, January is looking grim around the globe as the coronavirus resurges and reshapes itself from Britain to Japan to California, filling hospitals and threatening livelihoods anew as governments lock down businesses and race to find solutions.England headed back into lockdown. Mexico City’s hospitals hold more virus patients than ever. Germany reported one of its highest daily death tolls to date Tuesday. South Africa and Brazil are struggling to find space for the dead. Even pandemic success story Thailand is fighting an unexpected wave of infections.And as doctors face or brace for rising numbers of Covid-19 patients after end-of-year holiday gatherings, more and more countries are reporting cases of a new, more contagious variant that has already swept across Britain.January is going to be “a tough one,” said Dr. Margaret Harris, a spokeswoman for the World Health Organization. “This idea that seems to be ‘Ah, we’re all sick of it. We want to look at something else. Oh, this doesn’t apply to me’ ... that’s got to go away. It really is all hands on deck.”While Britain rolled out a second vaccine this week and some US states are starting to give the second round of shots, access to inoculations globally is sharply unequal. The supply isn’t remotely close to meeting the epic demand needed to vanquish a foe that has already killed over 1.85 million people.“We are in a race to prevent infections, bring cases down, protect health systems and save lives while rolling out two highly effective and safe vaccines to high-risk populations,” said WHO Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus. “This is not easy. These are the hard miles.”England is facing a third national lockdown that will last at least six weeks, as authorities struggle to stem a surge in Covid-19 infections and relieve hospitals, where some patients are left waiting in ambulances in a parking lot for access to overcrowded wards.Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s tough new stay-at-home order for England took effect at midnight. It will shut schools, restaurants and all nonessential stores and won’t be reviewed until at least mid-February. Scottish leader Nicola Sturgeon imposed a lockdown that began Tuesday.The two leaders said the restrictions are needed to protect the National Health Service amid the emergence of the new variant that has sent daily infections, hospitalizations and deaths soaring.The NHS “is going through probably the toughest time in living memory,″ said Siva Anandaciva, chief analyst of the King’s Fund think tank.Elsewhere in Europe, Italy and Germany extended their Christmastime lockdowns, Spain is restricting travel, and Denmark lowered the number of people who can gather in public from 10 to five. France is likely to announce tougher measures Thursday, and Ukraine is closing schools and restaurants starting Friday.In Latin America, some warn the worst is yet to come.“The boost we are experiencing here in Brazil is much more serious than what was happening months ago,” said Domingos Alves, an adjunct professor at the University of Sao Paulo.Brazil’s number of patients in intensive care reached its highest level since August, just as the nation reopened shops and offices after the end-of-year holidays — and the vast country still hasn’t approved or received any vaccines. Some Brazilian hospitals reinstalled refrigerated containers outside to hold the corpses of Covid-19 victims.Mexico’s capital has more virus patients than at any point in the pandemic and is flying in doctors from less hard-hit states. Its beach resorts are readying for more cases after thousands of US and European tourists visited over the holidays.“Probably in the third week of January, we are going to see the system stressed more, that there will be more ambulatory cases and cases requiring hospitalization,” said Dr. Mauricio Rodriguez of Mexico’s National Autonomous University. He blamed the rise on fatigue with social distancing, mixed messages from public figures and Mexicans lowering their guard during the holidays.Zimbabwe reintroduced a curfew, banned public gatherings and indefinitely suspended the opening of schools. In South Africa, which is seeing yet another fast-spreading variant of the virus and is the continent’s hardest-hit nation, authorities re-imposed a curfew, banned liquor sales and closed most beaches.South Africa’s undertakers are struggling to cope with the rise in deaths, National Funeral Practitioners Association of SA President Muzi Hlengwa told state broadcaster SABC.“It is something that you have never seen before. ... We have run out of coffins, we have run out of space at the mortuary,” he said. “We normally have cremations during the day, but now we have cremations even at night.”The pandemic is even reaching countries that seemed to have the virus under control.Thailand is facing a surge that has infected thousands in the past few weeks, blamed on complacency and poor planning. The government is locking down large parts of the country, including the capital, Bangkok, and considering tougher measures.Japan is getting ready to declare a state of emergency this week, beefing up border controls and speeding up vaccine approval after a surge of cases around New Year’s Eve.And holiday worries aren’t over now that 2021 has arrived.Pope Francis abandoned an annual ritual of baptizing babies in the Sistine Chapel tied to Wednesday’s Epiphany holiday. Orthodox Christian countries like Russia and Greece could face more infections after they celebrate Christmas on Thursday. And China is closing schools early ahead of next month’s Lunar New Year holiday, telling migrant workers not to go home and tourists to avoid Beijing.Vaccinations are getting off to a slow start in many places. In the U.S., where over 350,000 people have died, some states are struggling to secure enough shots and organize vaccinations. The Netherlands has come under heavy criticism for being the last European Union nation to start inoculations, which it will do Wednesday. Australia isn’t planning to do so until March. And most poorer countries are even further behind.Opposition politician Geert Wilders called the Dutch government “the village idiot of Europe.”Yet India offers a glimmer of hope. Its infection rate is down significantly from a September peak, and the country is kicking off one of the largest inoculation programs in the world, aiming at vaccinating 300 million people by August.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/hard-miles-pandemic-haunts-new-year-as-virus-growth-outpaces-vaccines/story-YCzVwK3RcBCFEjLBeeEMqN.html
06-01-2021||World||Germany extends lockdown until January 31, toughens curbs||The German government said Tuesday it is extending the country’s lockdown by three weeks until Jan. 31, tightening curbs on social contacts and planning limits on people’s movements in the worst-affected regions as it tries to reduce stubbornly high infection figures and worrying numbers of coronavirus-related deaths.Chancellor Angela Merkel said it was “absolutely necessary” to maintain restrictions, particularly in light of a more infectious variant of the virus that emerged in England.“We must reach a point where we can once again follow the chains of infection,” Merkel said after a lengthy videoconference with Germany’s 16 state governors. “Otherwise, we will just go keep going back into a lockdown after a short relaxation.”The chancellor said that restrictions on social contacts will be tightened. People will be allowed to meet only one person outside their own household.In a new move, authorities across Germany will allow people in areas with more than 200 new infections per 100,000 residents over seven days to travel only 15 kilometers (just over nine miles) from their hometown unless they have a good reason to go further.“In particular, day trips are not a good reason,” Merkel said. She pointed to a string of recent incidents in which day-trippers hoping to ski or sled have overrun winter resorts even though lifts and other facilities are closed.Merkel and the governors plan to confer again Jan. 25 on what happens after the end of the month.Germany launched a nationwide partial shutdown on Nov. 2, closing restaurants, bars, leisure and sports facilities. That failed to reduce infections, and the current lockdown -- which also closed nonessential shops and schools -- took effect Dec. 16. It was initially due to run through Jan. 10.Authorities say Germany’s reported numbers for COVID-19 cases are distorted by lower testing and delayed reporting over the Christmas and New Year’s period. The country’s disease control center says it expects to have a reliable picture of what is going on only from Jan. 17, Merkel said.But even according to the current figures, Germany is far from its declared aim of getting new confirmed cases below 50 per 100,000 residents over seven days — the maximum level at which officials say contact-tracing can work properly.On Tuesday, the infection rate stood at 134.7 per 100,000 nationwide, and 944 more deaths were reported to authorities in 24 hours, one of the highest daily death tolls yet in a country that had a relatively low COVID-19 mortality rate during the pandemic’s first phase.Merkel said the emergence of the new variant in England is “one reason more” to keep up restrictions. A few cases of the variant have been detected in Germany.The chancellor defended Germany’s approach to vaccinations following criticism fueled by perceptions that Europe has made a slow start and that the European Union was too hesitant in ordering the BioNTech-Pfizer vaccine, the only one so far cleared for use in the 27-nation bloc.Germany had vaccinated nearly 317,000 people by Tuesday, just over a week into the campaign. That’s a better showing than in several other EU countries, but critics have pointed to faster progress in the U.K., the United States and Israel.Merkel said it was “right and important” for the EU rather than individual countries to order vaccines for the whole bloc. She said that it “is in Germany’s interests” since the country is surrounded by other EU member nations and in the middle of the EU trade zone that relies on open borders.“A high number of vaccinated people in Germany combined with many who aren’t vaccinated in our neighborhood won’t be good for Germany,” she said. “So we don’t want national solo efforts. We think the most effective health protection for us can be attained through a common European procedure.”Health Minister Jens Spahn, who has faced criticism from inside Germany’s governing coalition, has repeatedly said that vaccinations are progressing as expected and that the slow start is because teams are first going to nursing homes to vaccinate the most vulnerable. Merkel said she thinks Spahn is doing “a great job.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/germany-extends-lockdown-until-january-31-toughens-curbs/story-GkZrIJ8bD1XOFmItgrLAEK.html
06-01-2021||World||Too close to call two Georgia Senate races that will decide fate of Biden’s agenda||Tight contests were developing on Tuesday in two US Senate races in Georgia that will decide which party controls the chamber and with it the power to advance or block Democratic President-elect Joe Biden’s policy goals.Republican incumbents David Perdue and Kelly Loeffler held slight leads over Democratic challengers Jon Ossoff, a documentary filmmaker, and the Rev. Raphael Warnock, a pastor at a historic Black church in Atlanta.With about 70% of the expected vote in, Loeffler led Warnock by less than a percentage point, while Perdue was ahead of Ossoff by 1.4 percentage points, according to Edison Research.Also Read| Georgia Senate runoffs: Democrats take early leadsThe races appeared headed to a close finish, with an Edison exit poll of more than 5,200 voters finding half had voted for Republican President Donald Trump in November and half for Biden. The voters were also evenly split on whether Democrats or Republicans should control the Senate. The survey included both early voters and voters who cast ballots on Tuesday.Democrats must win both contests in Georgia to take control of the Senate. A double Democratic win would create a 50-50 split in the Senate and give Vice President-elect Kamala Harris the tie-breaking vote after she and Biden take office on Jan. 20. The party already has a narrow majority in the House of Representatives.If Republicans hold onto the Senate, they would effectively wield veto power over Biden’s political and judicial appointees as well as many of his legislative initiatives in areas such as economic relief, climate change, healthcare and criminal justice.Both Democratic candidates were running slightly ahead of Biden in the first 32 counties where 95% or more of the likely vote had been counted. Most of those counties are small and lean Republican.Ossoff was doing 0.3 percentage point better in those counties than Biden did. Warnock was doing about 0.5 percentage point better than Biden did.Also Read: Tight elections unfolding in Georgia with Biden’s agenda, Senate control at stakeThe outcome may remain in doubt for days if the margins are razor-thin.Both Biden and Trump campaigned in the state on Monday, underscoring the stakes.No Democrat has won a US Senate race in Georgia in 20 years, but opinion surveys show both races as exceedingly close. The head-to-head runoff elections, a quirk of state law, became necessary when no candidate in either race exceeded 50% of the vote in November.Biden’s narrow statewide win in the Nov. 3 election - the first for a Democratic presidential candidate since 1992 - has given the party reason for optimism in a state dominated by Republicans for decades.More than 3 million Georgians voted early by mail or in person, shattering the record for runoff elections even before Election Day arrived. The two races drew nearly half a billion dollars in advertising spending since Nov. 3, a staggering total that fueled a tsunami of television commercials.In Smyrna, about 16 miles (26 km) northwest of Atlanta, Terry Deuel said he voted Republican to ensure a check on Democratic power.“The Democrats are going to raise taxes,” the 58-year-old handyman said. “And Biden wants to give everyone free money - $2,000 each or something like that for COVID stimulus? Where are we going to get the money?”Ann Henderson, 46, cast ballots at the same location for Ossoff and Warnock, saying she wanted to break Washington’s gridlock by delivering the Senate to Democrats.“It’s the social issues - civil rights, racial equality, voting rights, pandemic response,” she said. “If we take it, maybe we can get something done for a change.”U.S. equity market index futures were broadly weaker as the early results came in favoring the two Democratic candidates, signaling stocks could open on the soft side on Wednesday morning. The benchmark S&P 500 e-mini futures contract was down 0.3%, while futures tracking the tech-heavy Nasdaq were off by 0.7%. TRUMP RAGESThe campaign’s final days were overshadowed by Trump’s continued efforts to subvert the presidential election results. On Saturday, Trump pressured Raffensperger, a fellow Republican, on a phone call to “find” enough votes to reverse Biden’s victory, falsely claiming massive fraud.Trump’s efforts to undo his loss - with some Republicans planning to object to the certification of Biden’s win when Congress meets on Wednesday to formally count the presidential vote - have caused a split in his party and condemnation from critics who accuse him of undermining democracy. At Monday’s rally in Georgia, Trump again declared the November vote “rigged,” an assertion some Republicans worried would dissuade his supporters from voting on Tuesday.His attacks appear to have undermined public confidence in the electoral system. Edison’s exit poll found more than seven in 10 were very or somewhat confident their votes would be counted accurately, down from 85% who said the same in a Nov. 3 exit poll.Gabriel Sterling, a top official in the Georgia Secretary of State’s Office, told CNN that - in his opinion - Republican losses would fall on Trump.“When you tell people your vote doesn’t count, it’s been stolen, and people start to believe that, and then you go to the two senators and tell them to ask the secretary of state to resign and trigger a civil war inside the Republican Party … all of that stems from his decision-making,” he said.If elected, Warnock would become Georgia’s first Black U.S. senator and Ossoff, at 33, the Senate’s youngest member. Perdue is a former Fortune 500 executive who has served one Senate term. Loeffler, one of the wealthiest members of Congress, was appointed a year ago to fill the seat of a retiring senator. (Reporting by Nathan Layne and Rich McKay in Atlanta; Additional reporting by David Morgan, Brad Heath, Michael Martina and Dan Burns; Writing by Will Dunham, Joseph Ax and John Whitesides; Editing by Scott Malone, Alistair Bell and Peter Cooney)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/too-close-to-call-two-georgia-senate-races-that-will-decide-fate-of-biden-s-agenda/story-bJajBKkSTihRQqkds00GlI.html
06-01-2021||World||UK coronavirus variant detected in 41 countries/territories: WHO||The ‘UK’ coronavirus variant had been detected in 41 countries/territories, the World Health Organization (WHO) said in a statement.“As of 5 January 2021, the VOC-202012/01 variant initially detected in the United Kingdom has been detected in a small number of cases in 40 other countries/territories/areas in five of the six WHO regions, and the 501Y.V2 variant initially detected in South African in six other countries/territories/areas,” the WHO said.On December 14, 2020, the UK announced that a new coronavirus strain had been detected in the country, with the new variant being 70 per cent more transmissible.After the news emerged, many countries suspended travel to and from the UK. (ANI/Sputnik)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-coronavirus-variant-detected-in-41-countries-territories-who/story-KEA3ScvGLq4JRf9OanUMXM.html
06-01-2021||World||Georgia Senate runoffs: Democrats take early leads||Democrats Jon Ossoff and the Rev. Raphael Warnock took early leads in two U.S. Senate races in Georgia that will decide which party controls the chamber and with it the ability to help or hamstring Democratic President-elect Joe Biden.Ossoff, a documentary filmmaker, and Warnock, a pastor at a historic Black church in Atlanta, are challenging Republican incumbents David Perdue and Kelly Loeffler.With about 49% of the estimated vote counted, Warnock led Loeffler by 6.8 percentage points, while Ossoff was ahead of Perdue by 6.4 percentage points, according to Edison Research. The early results still heavily reflect Democratic-leaning areas.The races appeared headed to a close finish, with an Edison exit poll of more than 5,200 voters finding half had voted for Republican President Donald Trump in November and half for Biden. The voters were also evenly split on whether Democrats or Republicans should control the Senate. The survey included both early voters and voters who cast ballots on Tuesday.Democrats must win both contests in Georgia to take control of the Senate. A double Democratic win would create a 50-50 split in the Senate and give Vice President-elect Kamala Harris the tie-breaking vote after she and Biden take office on Jan. 20. The party already has a narrow majority in the House of Representatives.If Republicans hold onto the Senate, they would effectively wield veto power over Biden’s political and judicial appointees as well as many of his policy initiatives in areas such as economic relief, climate change, healthcare and criminal justice.The state already had relatively complete results for 27 counties in Georgia with about 197,000 total votes. Ossoff has done about 0.2 percentage point better than Biden did in those counties, while Warnock is doing about 0.8 percentage point better than Biden did.The outcome may remain in doubt for days if the margins are razor-thin.Both Biden and Trump campaigned in the state on Monday, underscoring the stakes.No Democrat has won a U.S. Senate race in Georgia in 20 years, but opinion surveys show both races as exceedingly close. The head-to-head runoff elections, a quirk of state law, became necessary when no candidate in either race exceeded 50% of the vote in November.Biden’s narrow statewide win in the Nov. 3 election - the first for a Democratic presidential candidate since 1992 - has given the party reason for optimism in a state dominated by Republicans for decades.More than 3 million Georgians voted early by mail or in person, shattering the record for runoff elections even before Election Day arrived. The two races drew nearly half a billion dollars in advertising spending since Nov. 3, a staggering total that fueled a tsunami of television commercials.In Smyrna, about 16 miles (26 km) northwest of Atlanta, Terry Deuel said he voted Republican to ensure a check on Democratic power.“The Democrats are going to raise taxes,” the 58-year-old handyman said. “And Biden wants to give everyone free money - $2,000 each or something like that for COVID stimulus? Where are we going to get the money?”Ann Henderson, 46, cast ballots at the same location for Ossoff and Warnock, saying she wanted to break Washington’s gridlock by delivering the Senate to Democrats.“It’s the social issues - civil rights, racial equality, voting rights, pandemic response,” she said. “If we take it, maybe we can get something done for a change.”U.S. equity market index futures were broadly weaker as the early results came in favoring the two Democratic candidates, signaling stocks could open on the soft side on Wednesday morning. The benchmark S&P 500 e-mini futures contract was down 0.3%, while futures tracking the tech-heavy Nasdaq were off by 0.7%. TRUMP RAGESThe campaign’s final days were overshadowed by Trump’s continued efforts to subvert the presidential election results. On Saturday, Trump pressured Raffensperger, a fellow Republican, on a phone call to “find” enough votes to reverse Biden’s victory, falsely claiming massive fraud.Trump’s efforts to undo his loss - with some Republicans planning to object to the certification of Biden’s win when Congress meets on Wednesday to formally count the presidential vote - have caused a split in his party and condemnation from critics who accuse him of undermining democracy. At Monday’s rally in Georgia, Trump again declared the November vote “rigged,” an assertion some Republicans worried would dissuade his supporters from voting on Tuesday.His attacks appear to have undermined public confidence in the electoral system. Edison’s exit poll found more than seven in 10 were very or somewhat confident their votes would be counted accurately, down from 85% who said the same in a Nov. 3 exit poll.If elected, Warnock would become Georgia’s first Black U.S. senator and Ossoff, at 33, the Senate’s youngest member. Perdue is a former Fortune 500 executive who has served one Senate term. Loeffler, one of the wealthiest members of Congress, was appointed a year ago to fill the seat of a retiring senator. (Reporting by Nathan Layne and Rich McKay in Atlanta; Additional reporting by Michael Martina and Dan Burns; Writing by Will Dunham, Joseph Ax and John Whitesides; Editing by Scott Malone, Alistair Bell and Peter Cooney)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/georgia-senate-runoffs-democrats-take-early-leads/story-0z5b7XVElS5dUFVp1cUrdK.html
06-01-2021||World||Dozens of Hong Kong pro-democracy figures arrested: Report||About 50 Hong Kong pro-democracy figures were arrested by police on Wednesday under a national security law, following their involvement in an unofficial primary election last year held to increase their chances of controlling the legislature, according to local media reports.Those arrested included former lawmakers and pro-democracy activists, and the group were arrested on suspicion of subversion under the city’s national security law, according to reports by local newspaper South China Morning Post and online news platform Now News.At least seven members of Hong Kong’s largest Democratic Party — the city’s largest opposition party — were arrested, including former party chairman Wu Chi-wai. Former lawmakers, including Helena Wong, Lam Cheuk-ting, and James To, were also arrested, according to a post on the party’s Facebook page.Pro-democracy activists and lawmakers had last July held an unofficial primary election to figure out which candidates they should field in a now-postponed legislative election that would boost their chances of gaining a majority of seats in legislature. Gaining a majority would allow the pro-democracy camp to vote against what they deemed to be pro-Beijing government policies.More than 600,000 Hong Kongers voted in the primaries, although pro-Beijing lawmakers and politicians criticized the event and warned that it could be in breach of the city’s national security law, which was imposed on the city by Beijing in June to quash dissent following months of anti-government protests.Beijing also blasted the primaries as “illegal,” calling it a “serious provocation” of Hong Kong’s current electoral system.Following the handover of Hong Kong to China by the British in 1997, the semi-autonomous Chinese city has operated on a “one country, two systems” framework that affords it freedoms not found on the mainland. In recent years, Beijing has asserted more control over the city, drawing criticism that Hong Kong’s freedoms were under attack.The legislative elections, originally slated to be held in September, were later postponed for a year after Hong Kong leader Carrie Lam claimed that holding elections would be a risk to public health given the coronavirus pandemic. The pro-democracy camp denounced the postponement as unconstitutional.In November, all of Hong Kong’s pro-democracy lawmakers resigned en masse after Beijing passed a resolution that led to the disqualification of four of its camp.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/dozens-of-hong-kong-pro-democracy-figures-arrested-report/story-7diKFRlbzNErsOx5d01ObK.html
06-01-2021||World||Hundreds of Donald Trump supporters flock to DC ahead of vote||Hundreds of supporters of President Donald Trump descended on the nation’s capital Tuesday to cheer his baseless claims of election fraud a day before a congressional vote to affirm Joe Biden’s victory.Just blocks from the White House, protesters — many without masks — gathered in Freedom Plaza to decry the vote in the Electoral College As temperatures dropped to the low 40s and a steady rain swept onto the streets, hundreds remained in the plaza into nightfall.“I’m just here to support the president,” said David Wideman, a 45-year-old firefighter who traveled from Memphis, Tennessee.Wideman acknowledged he was “confused” by a string of losses from the president’s legal team in their attempt to overturn the results of the election and didn’t know what options Trump had left.“I not sure what he can do at this point, but I want to hear what he has to say,” Wideman said.Trump tweeted his support for the protesters: “Washington is being inundated with people who don’t want to see an election victory stolen by emboldened Radical Left Democrats. Our Country has had enough, they won’t take it anymore! We hear you (and love you) from the Oval Office. MAKE AMERICA GREAT AGAIN!” The president was expected to personally address his supporters in Washington on Wednesday during a rally on the Ellipse, just south of the White House. The protests coincide with Wednesday’s congressional vote expected to certify the Electoral College results, which Trump continues to dispute.The rallies had local officials and law enforcement bracing for potential violent street clashes. Many businesses in downtown Washington boarded up their windows, fearful that the protest could devolve into the unrest seen in May and June when dozens of businesses were vandalised.District of Columbia Mayor Muriel Bowser called in National Guard troops to help bolster the city’s police force. She urged residents to stay away from downtown Washington and to avoid confrontations with anyone who is “looking for a fight.” But, she warned, “we will not allow people to incite violence, intimidate our residents or cause destruction in our city.” Election officials from both political parties, governors in key battleground states and Trump’s former attorney general, William Barr, have said there was no widespread fraud in the election. Nearly all the legal challenges from Trump and his allies have been dismissed by judges, including two challenges rejected by the Supreme Court.A pro-Trump rally Dec 12 ended in violence as hundreds of Trump supporters, wearing the signature black and yellow of the Proud Boys, a far-right extremist group, sought out confrontations with a collective of local activists attempting to bar them from Black Lives Matter Plaza, an area near the White House. At least two local Black churches had Black Lives Matter banners torn down and set ablaze.On Monday, police arrested the leader of the Proud Boys, Henry “Enrique” Tarrio, 36, after he arrived in Washington ahead of this week’s protests. Tarrio was accused of burning one of the Black Lives Matter banners in December and was found with two high-capacity firearm magazines, police said. A judge signed an order Tuesday banning Tarrio from entering the District of Columbia, with very limited exceptions related to his criminal case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/hundreds-of-donald-trump-supporters-flock-to-dc-ahead-of-vote/story-tmq8skyhAp0sdN6v0OYAPI.html
06-01-2021||World||Tight elections unfolding in Georgia with Biden’s agenda, Senate control at stake||Early vote totals suggested close contests were unfolding in two US Senate races in Georgia that will decide which party controls the chamber and the possible fate of Democratic President-elect Joe Biden’s legislative agenda.Republican incumbents David Perdue and Kelly Loeffler faced Democratic challengers Jon Ossoff, a documentary filmmaker, and the Rev. Raphael Warnock, a pastor at a historic Black church in Atlanta.About an hour after polls closed at 7 pm (0000 GMT), Warnock led Loeffler by 6.2 percentage points, while Ossoff was ahead of Perdue by 5.6 percentage points, with 20% of the estimated vote counted, according to Edison Research.An Edison exit poll of more than 5,200 voters found half had voted for Republican President Donald Trump in November and half for Biden. The voters were also evenly split on whether Democrats or Republicans should control the Senate. The survey included both early voters and voters who cast ballots on Tuesday.Democrats must win both contests in Georgia to take control of the Senate. A double win for the Democrats would create a 50-50 split in the Senate, giving Vice President-elect Kamala Harris the tie-breaking vote after she and Biden take office on Jan. 20. The party already has a majority in the House of Representatives.If Republicans hold onto the Senate, they would effectively wield veto power over Biden’s political and judicial appointees as well as many of his policy initiatives in areas such as economic relief, climate change, healthcare and criminal justice.The results could be known by Wednesday, Georgia Secretary of State Brad Raffensperger told CNN, although the outcome may remain in doubt for days if the margins are razor-thin.Both Biden and Trump campaigned in the state on Monday, underscoring the stakes.No Democrat has won a US Senate race in Georgia in 20 years, but opinion surveys show both races as exceedingly close. The head-to-head runoff elections, a quirk of state law, became necessary when no candidate in either race exceeded 50% of the vote in November.Biden’s narrow statewide win in the Nov. 3 election - the first for a Democratic presidential candidate since 1992 - has given the party reason for optimism in a state dominated by Republicans for decades.More than 3 million Georgians voted early by mail or in person, shattering the record for runoff elections even before Election Day arrived. The two races drew nearly half a billion dollars in advertising spending since Nov. 3, a staggering total that fueled a tsunami of television commercials.In Smyrna, about 16 miles (26 km) northwest of Atlanta, Terry Deuel said he voted Republican to ensure a check on Democratic power.“The Democrats are going to raise taxes,” the 58-year-old handyman said. “And Biden wants to give everyone free money - $2,000 each or something like that for COVID stimulus? Where are we going to get the money?”Ann Henderson, 46, cast ballots at the same location for Ossoff and Warnock, saying she wanted to break Washington’s gridlock by delivering the Senate to Democrats.“It’s the social issues - civil rights, racial equality, voting rights, pandemic response,” she said. “If we take it, maybe we can get something done for a change.”TRUMP RAGESThe campaign’s final days were overshadowed by Trump’s continued efforts to subvert the presidential election results. On Saturday, Trump pressured Raffensperger, a fellow Republican, on a phone call to “find” enough votes to reverse Biden’s victory, falsely claiming massive fraud.Trump’s efforts to undo his loss - with some Republicans planning to object to the certification of Biden’s win when Congress meets on Wednesday to formally count the presidential vote - have caused a split in his party and condemnation from critics who accuse him of undermining democracy. At Monday’s rally in Georgia, Trump again declared the November vote “rigged,” an assertion some Republicans worried would dissuade his supporters from voting on Tuesday.His attacks appear to have undermined public confidence in the electoral system. Edison’s exit poll found more than seven in 10 were very or somewhat confident their votes would be counted accurately, down from 85% who said the same in a Nov. 3 exit poll.Wall Street’s main indexes finished higher after a weak start on Tuesday as investors awaited the outcome in Georgia.If elected, Warnock would become Georgia’s first Black US senator and Ossoff, at 33, the Senate’s youngest member. Perdue is a former Fortune 500 executive who has served one Senate term. Loeffler, one of the wealthiest members of Congress, was appointed a year ago to fill the seat of a retiring senator.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/tight-elections-unfolding-in-georgia-with-biden-s-agenda-senate-control-at-stake/story-lauUCOiiIK3jJ8Wa6sWKzL.html
06-01-2021||World||WikiLeaks’ Julian Assange to discover if he will be freed from jail on bail||WikiLeaks’ founder Julian Assange will discover on Wednesday if he will be allowed to taste freedom after years of self-incarceration and jail time, following victory in his battle to avoid extradition from Britain to the United States.A British judge on Monday rejected a request from US authorities for Assange, 49, to be sent across the Atlantic to face 18 criminal charges of breaking an espionage law and conspiring to hack government computers.The charges relate to the release by WikiLeaks of hundreds of thousands of confidential US military records and diplomatic cables which US officials say put lives in danger.Although Judge Vanessa Baraitser accepted the US legal arguments in the case, she said Assange’s mental health issues meant he would be at risk of suicide if he were extradited. The US Department of Justice says it will continue to seek his extradition and will appeal against her verdict. In the meantime, Assange, who is currently being held in the top-security Belmarsh Prison in east London, will seek to be freed on bail at a hearing on Wednesday.If Baraitser grants his request, he will be able to enjoy freedom for the first time in more than eight years.Admirers hail Australian-born Assange as a hero for exposing what they describe as abuses of power by the United States. But detractors cast him as a dangerous figure who has undermined the security of the West, and dispute that he is a journalist.WikiLeaks published hundreds of thousands of secret US diplomatic cables that laid bare often critical US appraisals of world leaders, from Russian President Vladimir Putin to members of the Saudi royal family.Assange made international headlines in early 2010 when WikiLeaks published a classified US military video showing a 2007 attack by Apache helicopters that killed a dozen people in Baghdad, including two Reuters news staff.FREEDOM?In June 2012, Assange fled to London’s Ecuadorean embassy after losing his bid to prevent extradition to Sweden, where he was wanted for questioning over alleged sex crimes.He remained in the embassy, living in confined conditions, until being dragged out in April 2019. Although the Swedish case against him had been dropped by then, he was jailed for breaching British bail conditions and his supporters forfeited sureties of 93,500 pounds ($127,076). He has remained behind bars after completing his jail term pending the outcome of the U.S. extradition case, which would include any appeal by the United States. Baraitser has previously refused him bail, saying he remained a flight risk.Assange’s partner Stella Moris, with whom he had two children while holed up in the embassy, said they could not celebrate as long as he was still in prison.“We will celebrate the day he comes home,” she said.Assange’s lawyer Edward Fitzgerald said on Monday that the extradition ruling cast a new light over the bail decision. But Nick Vamos, lawyer at London-based firm Peters & Peters and former head of extradition at Britain’s Crown Prosecution Service, said he expected his bid not to succeed.“To do so, he would have to point to some change in circumstances, for example the COVID-19 risk in Belmarsh, other than the extradition judgment in his favour,” Vamos said. “I expect his bail application to fail.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/wikileaks-julian-assange-to-discover-if-he-will-be-freed-from-jail-on-bail/story-hwOSKFmFO9SOpUczuTEfUN.html
06-01-2021||World||North Korea’s Kim Jong Un opens congress with policy failures admission||North Korean leader Kim Jong Un opened his country’s first ruling party congress in five years with an admission of policy failures and a vow to set new developmental goals, state media reported Wednesday.The Workers’ Party Congress met in Pyongyang on Tuesday with thousands of delegates and observers in attendance, the Korean Central News Agency reported.In his opening speech, KCNA cited Kim as saying the developmental goals set in a 2016 congress “were not met in almost all areas to a great extent.“We should further promote and expand the successes and victories that we’ve achieved through our painstaking efforts but prevent us from having the painful lessons again,” he said.While underlining the need to start the work to develop the economy under a new five-year plan, Kim reviewed the present status of North Korea’s metal, chemical, electric and other key industries and set unspecified tasks for future development, according to KCNA.This year’s congress comes as Kim faces the toughest challenge of nine-year rule because of what he has called “multiple crises” __ an economy hammered by pandemic-caused border closings, a series of natural disasters last summer and persistent U.S.-led sanctions. During Tuesday’s speech, Kim described the difficulties as “the worst of all” and “unprecedented.”He also is likely to see US policy change under President-elect Joe Biden, who unlike President Donald Trump is expected to avoid top-down summit diplomacy with him and maintain punishing sanctions on the North, unless Kim takes significant steps toward denuclearization.Officially, the congress is the party’s top decision-making body, though key day-to-day decisions are made by Kim and his inner circle. The congress would still provide Kim with a chance to solidity his authority by announcing new goals, naming loyal lieutenants to top posts and calling for a stronger unity behind his leadership.It’s now known how long this year’s congress would be held. It was held for four days in 2006, five days in 1980 and 12 days in 1970.North Korea’s yearlong closure of its border with China, its biggest trading partner, to guard against COVID-19 is taking a heavy toll on its already-troubled economy. Bilateral trade volume plummeted by about 79% in the first 11 months of last year from the corresponding period in 2019, analyst Song Jaeguk at Seoul’s IBK Economic Research Institute. North Korea’s GDP was estimated to have contracted by 9.3% in 2020, he said.Following the sharp drop in external trade, North Korea experienced a fourfold increase of imported foodstuffs like sugar and seasonings at markets while its factory operation rate dropped to its lowest level since Kim took power because of a shortage of raw materials, South Korea’s spy agency told lawmakers in late November.“I can’t think about any words to describe how difficult situation the North Koreans are going through now, rather than saying they’re suffering tremendously,” Song said. “If the coronavirus pandemic continues, they’ll suffer harder.”Many experts say North Korea has no other option but to maintain its border closure as the pandemic continues worldwide, because its public health care system remain broken and a major outbreak could cause a dire consequence. Despite taking draconian anti-virus measures, North Korea has steadfastly argued it hasn’t found a single virus case on its soil, a claim widely disputed by foreign experts.During his speech, Kim said the surest and fastest ways to resolve the ongoing difficulties is further bolstering internal strength. Observers predicted Kim would use the congress to call for building a stronger self-reliant economy and launching new productivity campaigns to squeeze his people for more labor. Last week, North Korea said it successfully completed a 80-day labor campaign.During the congress, the North may issue conciliatory messages in consideration of ties with the incoming Biden administration while underscoring its traditional ties with China and Russia, Seoul’s Unification Ministry said in a report on the outlook for the congress.Kim didn’t mention the United States in his Tuesday speech.Some experts say Kim won’t likely launch a major provocation anytime soon because that would further dim the prospect for early talks with the Biden government, which faces many urgent domestic issues. But they say Kim may resume high-profile missile tests when the US and South Korea militaries conduct their annual springtime military drills.Trump canceled or scaled back many regular military drills with South Korea to provide more space for diplomacy.The Kim-Trump diplomacy has largely remained deadlocked for about two years over a US refusal to provide North Korea with extensive sanctions relief in exchange of a partial surrender of its nuclear capability. In its late November intelligence briefing, South Korea’s spy agency said Kim had ordered diplomats abroad not to provoke the United States due to worries about Biden’s new approach on his government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/north-korea-s-kim-jong-un-opens-congress-with-policy-failures-admission/story-D5Gitct22Y23GIBPFHFO1L.html
06-01-2021||World||Donald Trump orders ban on WeChat Pay and other ‘Chinese’ apps||US President Donald Trump on Tuesday ordered a ban on Alipay, WeChat Pay and other apps linked to Chinese companies, saying they could route user information to the government in Beijing.The executive order is to take effect in 45 days, just weeks after Trump is replaced in the White House by President-elect Joe Biden.A senior administration official said the order and its implementation has not been discussed with the “potential incoming Biden administration.”The move by Trump comes after previous executive orders aimed at banning TikTok, which is owned by China-based ByteDance, were derailed by court rulings indicating Trump overstepped his legal authority.The apps targeted by the new ban were chosen because of the extremely high number of downloads, which meant tens of millions of users could be at risk of having their data harnessed, according to the administration official.“We are trying to articulate to the world and take steps to stop the encroachment of China’s big data strategy -- photos, text messages, phone calls to parents -- from being fed into this mass tool for global oppression,” the official said.Trump’s order calls for the secretary of commerce to review and assess what further apps should be included in the ban.It specifically named Alipay, CamScanner, QQ Wallet, SHAREit, Tencent QQ, VMate, WeChat Pay and WPS Office.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-orders-ban-on-wechat-pay-and-other-chinese-apps/story-te0r0AxQnAIRnzdyjTHcOP.html
06-01-2021||World||WHO disappointed China hasn’t granted entry to coronavirus experts||The World Health Organization expressed dissappointment over China not finalising the permissions for the arrival of the team that was to investigate the origin of the coronavirus, said world health body chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus on Tuesday (local time).“Over the past 24 hours, members of the international scientific team on COVID-19 virus origins began traveling from their home countries to China. Today we learned that Chinese officials have not yet finalised the necessary permissions for the team’s arrival in China,” he said.The WHO Chief said that the official visit was as per arrangements jointly developed between WHO, the Chinese government, and countries for which the team was meant to travel through on their way to Wuhan.He added, “I am very disappointed with this news given that two members had already begun their journeys and others were not able to travel at the last minute. But I have been in contact with senior Chinese officials and I have once again made clear that the mission is a priority for WHO and the international team.”Tedros said that the global health body is eager to get the mission underway “as soon as possible”.Beijing had previously said it would give the WHO’s expert team full access to investigate the virus origin.While China has dismissed criticism of its handling of early cases that emerged in late 2019, some leaders including US President Donald Trump have questioned Beijing’s actions during the outbreak. Trump has often called it the ‘ChinaVirus’ and has repeatedly called for the Chinese government to be held accountable for “this plague”.US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo has also slammed the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) for continuing to spread disinformation regarding Covid-19, and obstructing the investigation of the World Health Organization (WHO) in finding out the origin and spread of the virus.Sino-Australian relations have been in a downward spiral since April, when Canberra infuriated Beijing by proposing an independent international inquiry into the origins of the Covid-19 pandemic.Citizen journalist Zhang Zhan, who was detained in May for her live stream reporting from Wuhan over COVID-19, has been sentenced to four years of imprisonment in late December, Hong Kong Free Press (HKFP) reported.She has been convicted of “picking quarrels and provoking trouble” for her reporting in the chaotic initial stages of the outbreak.As per the latest update by Johns Hopkins University, the coronavirus cases across the globe currently stands at over 85 million cases and 1.8 million deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/who-disappointed-china-hasn-t-granted-entry-to-coronavirus-experts/story-lGqp3IaBahSvUsUNzO2akL.html
06-01-2021||World||Germany orders 62,000 poultry culled after bird flu found on farms||About 62,000 turkeys and ducks will be slaughtered after bird flu was found on more poultry farms in Germany, authorities said on Tuesday.Type H5N8 bird flu was confirmed in two farms in the Cloppenburg region in the northern state of Lower Saxony, the Cloppenburg local government authority said.Cloppenburg is one of Germany’s leading poultry production areas.A series of outbreaks of bird flu have been reported in Europe in past weeks, with wild birds suspected to be spreading the disease.Outbreaks have been reported in countries including France and Britain, along with cases found elsewhere in Germany.Risk to humans from the disease is considered low, but past outbreaks among farm birds have needed extensive slaughtering programmes to contain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/germany-orders-62-000-poultry-culled-after-bird-flu-found-on-farms/story-UuEUL772oVD7bKavdSLIWK.html
