08-01-2021||World||Alok Sharma made president of UN climate conference in Glasgow||Alok Sharma, who was appointed to the cabinet role of Business secretary in the Boris Johnson government following the December 2019 election, was on Friday appointed full-time president of UN COP26 climate conference scheduled to be held in Glasgow in November.Prime Minister Narendra Modi is among world leaders due to attend the key climate conference. COP26 will be the largest summit the UK has ever hosted, bringing together representatives from nearly 200 countries, including leaders, experts, and campaigners.Prime Minister Johnson appointed Kwasi Kwarteng, who was minister of state in the Department of Business, Energy and Clean Growth, as the new Business secretary. Sharma’s new role will continue to have cabinet status and he will report directly to the Prime Minister.Downing Street said in a statement that to meet the high ambitions for the summit, Sharma will solely focus on driving forward coordinated global action to tackle climate change. Officials said that a successful summit in November will be critical to meet the objectives set out by the Paris Agreement and reduce global emissions. It added that the UK has set a high bar, with recent commitment to reduce emissions by at least 68% by 2030, but also need other countries to do their bit. Sharma has been leading the UK’s climate diplomacy, since assuming the role in February 2020, and will now focus on it exclusively. The Climate Ambition Summit co-hosted by the UK in December last year saw 75 world leaders set out new commitments to climate action.Sharma said: “The biggest challenge of our time is climate change and we need to work together to deliver a cleaner, greener world and build back better for present and future generations”.“Through the UK’s Presidency of COP26 we have a unique opportunity, working with friends and partners around the world, to deliver on this goal.“Given the vital importance of tackling climate change I am delighted to have been asked by the Prime Minister to dedicate all my energies to this urgent task,” he added.Sharma is one of four Indian-origin members around Johnson’s cabinet table, besides chancellor Rishi Sunak, home secretary Priti Patel and attorney gneral Suella Braverman.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/alok-sharma-made-president-of-un-climate-conference-in-glasgow/story-QLW3jLr9GEUopsqxfa4MSO.html
08-01-2021||World||UK court to deliver judgement on Nirav Modi extradition on Feb 25||The judgement in the Nirav Modi extradition case will be delivered in the Westminster Magistrates Court on February 25, judge Samuel Goozee announced on Friday at the end of a two-day hearing after defence teams made concluding arguments.Claire Montomery, Modi’s lawyer, and Helen Malcolm of the Crown Prosecution Service representing India, quoted from emails, witness statements, bank and other documents, and presented their versions on issues such as prison conditions, mental health treatment facilities and the possibility of a Modi receiving a fair trial, if extradited.Under the UK-India extradition treaty, India needs to establish in UK courts that there is a prima facie case against the person requested – not a conviction – based on charges that would amount to offences in law in both countries.One of Montgomery’s major objections to the extradition is the alleged lack of a prima facie case against Modi, which was countered by Malcolm, who argued that the charges against Modi would amount to similar criminal charges under British law.“There is multiplicity of evidence”, Malcolm told the court, that Modi indulged in fraud in relation to seeking loans from the Punjab National Bank in Mumbai. The evidence is sufficient to establish a prima facie case against him, she said.Malcolm also reiterated India’s charges that Modi interfered with witnesses, was involved in destroying servers and mobile phones, and also threatened to kill one of the witnesses. It is not for the court to “start double-guessing” what amounts to a crime in India, she added.Besides the alleged lack of a prima facie case, Modi’s defence team has argued that he would not receive a fair trial in India, would not receive appropriate treatment for mental ailments and that there was a risk of suicide. There was no evidence on India’s charge that Modi and others conspired to defraud the bank, the team argued.Modi, 49, who is lodged in the Wandsworth prison in west London and attended the hearing remotely, wearing a jacket and sporting a beard, is the subject of two extradition requests; one processed by the Central Bureau of Investigation and the other by the Enforcement Directorate.Charges against Modi involve PNB’s Mumbai branch that extended his companies loans worth over Rs 11,300 crores. The CBI case relates to large-scale fraud upon PNB, through the fraudulent obtaining of Letters of Understanding (LOUs/loan agreements); the ED case relates to the laundering of the proceeds of that fraud.The second extradition request was made on the basis of two additional offences as part of the CBI case, relating to allegations that Modi interfered with the CBI investigation by “causing disappearance of evidence” and intimidating witnesses (”criminal intimidation to cause death”).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-court-to-deliver-judgement-on-nirav-modi-extradition-on-feb-25/story-cBqb0CDfsGHW56ppLeolCI.html
08-01-2021||World||Shocked by Capitol siege, more aides, GOP backers desert Trump||While Donald Trump on Friday said he will not attend US President-elect Joe Biden’s inauguration on January 20, the outgoing president’s deputy, vice-president Mike Pence, is expected to, in a sign of growing fissures in the Trump administration, marked also by a steady stream of resignations.Betsy DeVos, the education secretary, became on Thursday the second member of Trump’s cabinet to resign in the aftermath of the Capitol attack, after Elaine Chao, the transportation secretary. DeVos blamed Trump’s rhetoric for the attack, calling it “unconscionable”.Matt Pottinger, a deputy National Security Adviser, and Mick Mulvaney, a former Trump chief of staff and special envoy on Norther Ireland, are among senior officials who quit. Republican lawmakers are urging others to stay, to ensure the unpredictable president was not left to his own devices, especially as he feels isolated and is in danger of being removed from office.“To all of those who have asked, I will not be going to the inauguration on January 20th,” Trump tweeted on Friday, becoming the first American president to skip his successor’s inauguration sine 1869.Pence, who has shown increasing independence from the president after years of slavish loyalty, plans to attend, according to news reports. He or his office have not denied those reports. In fact, subsequent reports indicated that he is, in fact, waiting for an invitation.Former President George W Bush, a Republican who was publicly critical of Trump, will be attending Biden’s inauguration along with his wife Laura Bush, his spokesperson had said the day before US Congress met to certify Biden’s election, sending an unmistakable message to Republican lawmakers objecting to the certification at Trump’s behest.Former President Jimmy Carter and his wife Rosalyn Carter wil not attend, their spokesperson has said. They are 97 and 93 and have been largely home lately due to Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/shocked-by-capitol-siege-more-aides-gop-backers-desert-trump/story-M3NtqxlFuodKWx9fB1ephI.html
08-01-2021||World||Murder probe opens after US police officer dies in Capitol mob attack||A US Capitol Police officer died in the attack on the building by President Donald Trump’s supporters, taking the toll up to five as local police and the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) released photos of men and women involved in the riot, seeking public’s help to identify and prosecute them.The Capitol building area was fenced off on Thursday after Wednesday’s mayhem, while authorities began investigating the siege.The officer, Brian D Sicknick, died late on Thursday, the Capitol Police said in a statement. He “was responding to the riots on Wednesday” and suffered injuries “while physically engaging with protesters”, it said. He returned to his office and collapsed shortly thereafter. He died in a local hospital where he was taken for treatment. Sicknick was reportedly struck in the head with a fire extinguisher on Wednesday while struggling with the rioters who swarmed through the halls of Congress. Ashli Babbitt, a woman who had served in the US Air Force, was shot and killed by police while reportedly trying to smash her way into the House of Representatives chamber through a window, with other rioters. Three other people died of medical emergencies.The office of the US attorney for DC has opened a federal murder investigation into Sicknick’s death, according to reports. Those convicted could get the death penalty. The case is being jointly conducted by the FBI and the DC Metropolitan Police Department, and the US Capitol Police.House speaker Nancy Pelosi has ordered flags to fly at half-mast at the US Capitol in Sicknick’s honour. “On behalf of the House of Representatives, I send our deepest condolences to the family and loved ones of officer Brian Sicknick, who died after defending the Capitol complex and protecting those who serve and work here,” she said in a statement. “Make no mistake. With our partners, we will hold accountable those who participated in yesterday’s siege of the Capitol,” FBI director Christopher Wray said. “Let me assure the American people the FBI has deployed our full investigative resources and is working closely with our federal, state, and local partners to aggressively pursue those involved in criminal activity during the events.”The FBI and the police released 40 photos of rioters seeking the public’s help to identify them. They included a man seen walking around with a confederate flag, and one who sat in the Senate president’s seat in the well of the chamber that was occupied just moments before on Wednesday by US vice-president Mike Pence as he had presided over the process to certify President-elect Joe Biden’s election victory.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/murder-probe-opens-after-us-police-officer-dies-in-capitol-mob-attack/story-WcBNLWuDDMEGcIlfogxtCO.html
08-01-2021||World||Nancy Pelosi speaks to US army chief regarding Trump’s access to nuclear codes||House Speaker Nancy Pelosi said she has spoken with the senior-most US military official about President Donald Trump and the safety of nuclear codes in his remaining days in office. She also said that Congress will move to oust him from office if members of his cabinet do not invoke the 25th Amendment to do so.Pelosi will speak with her Democratic caucus members Friday about the way forward on trying to remove Trump before Joe Biden takes over as president Jan. 20. Few Republicans have yet endorsed the effort.House Speaker Nancy Pelosi alerted fellow Democrats that she is concerned that an “unhinged” President Donald Trump would access nuclear launch codes and order a military strike, and wants Pentagon officials to take precautions.Pelosi said she spoke with Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Mark Milley about “available precautions for preventing an unstable president from initiating military hostilities or accessing the launch codes and ordering a nuclear strike” in his remaining days in office.Pelosi also said in a letter to colleagues that Congress will try to remove Trump from office if his cabinet doesn’t act.“Today, following the President’s dangerous and seditious acts, Republicans in Congress need to follow that example and call on Trump to depart his office – immediately,” Pelosi said. “If the President does not leave office imminently and willingly, the Congress will proceed with our action.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/nancy-pelosi-speaks-to-us-army-chief-regarding-trump-s-access-to-nuclear-codes/story-pbHYWw444wjIk8e8KoA5AM.html
08-01-2021||World||Republican Ben Sasse would consider Democratic effort to impeach Trump||At least one Senate Republican would consider supporting a possible effort by congressional Democrats to impeach President Donald Trump for an unprecedented second time after his supporters, inflamed by his false claims of election fraud, stormed the US Capitol.Democrats in the House of Representatives, which holds the power to impeach the president, will hold a conference call at noon (1700 GMT) to discuss their next steps, according to two Democratic aides.Top Democratic leaders say they believe the House can impeach the Republican president within a week but with Trump’s term due to end anyway by Jan. 20 and the Senate still controlled by Republicans, the prospects of him then being thrown out of office are unclear.Removing a US president requires a two-thirds majority in the Senate.Senator Ben Sasse, a Republican and often a Trump critic, told CBS News on Friday he would “definitely consider” any articles of impeachment because the president “disregarded his oath of office.”“I do believe that the votes are in the House of Representatives to put forth articles of impeachment, and he’ll be the only president to be impeached twice,” said James Clyburn, the No. 3 House Democrat. President-Elect Joe Biden has blamed Trump for instigating Wednesday’s violence but has not said whether he supports removal. Transition spokesman Andrew Bates said Biden would focus on preparing to take power and leave it to Vice President Mike Pence, the Cabinet and Congress “to act as they see fit.”Trump had encouraged thousands of supporters to march on the Capitol on Wednesday in a fiery speech in which he repeated his baseless claims that the Nov. 3 presidential election was stolen. A crowd stormed the building, overwhelming police, breaking windows, stealing computers and antiquities and forcing authorities to transport lawmakers to secure locations for their own safety.The violence killed five people, including a police officer. As calls mounted for the president to be removed, Trump finally denounced the violence, In a video released on Thursday evening, a flat-toned Trump promised a smooth and orderly transition of power, though he stopped short of abandoning his claims of fraud.On Friday morning he praised his supporters on Twitter, saying, “They will not be disrespected or treated unfairly in any way, shape or form!!!”A Capitol police officer died from injuries sustained in the assault, the force said on Thursday. A woman protester was fatally shot by the authorities, and three people died from medical emergencies.House of Representatives Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer demanded on Thursday that Pence and Trump’s Cabinet invoke the Constitution’s 25th Amendment, which allows them to strip the president of his powers if he cannot discharge the duties of his office. Pence opposes the idea, an adviser said.Pelosi and Schumer, along with other Democratic leaders, called for immediate impeachment proceedings if Pence and the Cabinet refuse to take steps to remove Trump from power.“The president’s dangerous and seditious acts necessitate his immediate removal from office,” they said in a statement on Thursday evening, accusing Trump of inciting an “insurrection.”RUNNING OUT OF TIME? There is a growing rift within the Republican Party in the wake of Wednesday’s siege. At least two Republicans, Maryland Governor Larry Hogan and US Representative Adam Kinzinger, joined calls for Trump to go.Numerous senior Trump administration officials have resigned in protest over the invasion of the Capitol, including two Cabinet members: Elaine Chao, the transportation secretary and McConnell’s wife, and Betsy DeVos, the education secretary.Congress certified Biden’s election victory early on Thursday, after authorities cleared the Capitol.With Trump’s term almost expired, it was not clear whether there would be enough time to complete the impeachment process.The Senate is scheduled to be in recess until Jan. 19. Aides to Mitch McConnell, the Republican majority leader, have not said whether he would reconvene the Senate if the House approved articles of impeachment.Democrats are set to take narrow control of the Senate after winning two runoff elections in Georgia on Tuesday, but the new senators will not be sworn in until the state certifies its results later this month.The House impeached Trump in December 2019 for pressuring the Ukrainian president to investigate Biden, but the Senate acquitted him in February 2020. Only two other US presidents have been impeached, and none has ever been impeached twice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/republican-ben-sasse-would-consider-democratic-effort-to-impeach-trump/story-NbQB2ktFJnHMeMgCdMh9QM.html
08-01-2021||World||Iran’s Khamenei bans import of Covid-19 vaccines from US, UK, demands revoking of sanctions||Iran’s Supreme Leader on Friday banned the government from importing COVID-19 vaccines from the United States and Britain, labelling the Western powers “untrustworthy”, as the infection spreads in the Middle East’s hardest-hit country.In a live televised speech, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei raised the prospect of the two Western countries, long-time adversaries of the Islamic Republic, possibly seeking to spread the infection to other countries. He added however that Iran could obtain vaccines “from other reliable places”. He gave no details, but China and Russia are both allies of Iran. “Imports of US and British vaccines into the country are forbidden ... They’re completely untrustworthy. It’s not unlikely they would want to contaminate other nations,” said Khamenei, the country’s highest authority.“Given our experience with France’s HIV-tainted blood supplies, French vaccines aren’t trustworthy either,” Khamenei said, referring to the country’s contaminated blood scandal of the 1980s and 1990s.Iran launched human trials of its first domestic COVID-19 vaccine candidate late last month, saying it could help Iran defeat the pandemic despite US sanctions that affect its ability to import vaccines.Tensions between Washington and Tehran have risen since 2018, when President Donald Trump abandoned Iran’s 2015 nuclear deal and reimposed sanctions to pressure Tehran into negotiating stricter curbs on its nuclear program, ballistic missile development and support for regional proxy forces. In retaliation for US sanctions, which were lifted under the nuclear deal, Tehran has gradually violated the accord. US President-elect Joe Biden, who takes office on Jan. 20, has pledged to rejoin the agreement, if Tehran also returns to full compliance. Khamenei said Tehran was in no rush for the United States to re-enter the deal, but that sanctions on the Islamic Republic must be lifted immediately.Iran’s utmost authority, Khamenei ruled out any talks over Tehran’s missile programme and Iran’s involvement in the Middle East, as demanded by the United States and some other major powers.“Contrary to the US, Iran’s involvement in the region creates stability and is aimed at preventing instability ... Iran’s involvement in the region is definite and will continue.”Shortly before Khamenei’s speech, Iran’s elite Revolutionary Guards unveiled an underground missile base at an undisclosed Gulf location. The West sees Iran’s missiles both as a conventional military threat to regional stability and a possible delivery mechanism for nuclear weapons should Tehran develop them.But Iran, which has one of the biggest missile programmes in the Middle East, regards the programme as an important deterrent and retaliatory force against US and other adversaries - primarily Gulf Arabs - in the region in the event of war.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/iran-s-khamenei-bans-import-of-covid-19-vaccines-from-us-uk-demands-revoking-of-sanctions/story-ZP1YOeKmFk8ugRi39N98BN.html
08-01-2021||World||Lehigh University Revokes Trump’s Honorary Degree Given in 1988||Lehigh University, a private school in Pennsylvania, revoked an honorary degree given to President Donald Trump in 1988. A committee of the school’s board of trustees voted to rescind the degree Thursday, followed by the full board on Friday, according to a statement from the school in Bethlehem.Individuals including cabinet secretaries and institutions have distanced themselves from Trump after his supporters vandalized the Capitol and disrupted Congress during Wednesday’s certification of the Electoral College count.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/lehigh-university-revokes-trump-s-honorary-degree-given-in-1988-101610125131268.html
08-01-2021||World||President-elect Biden to release every available dose of Covid-19 vaccine: Report||President-elect Joe Biden will aim to release every available dose of coronavirus vaccine when he takes office, a departure from Trump administration strategy of holding back doses to make sure second doses are available, CNN reported on Thursday.“The President-elect believes we must accelerate distribution of the vaccine while continuing to ensure the Americans who need it most get it as soon as possible,” TJ Ducklo, a spokesman for Biden’s transition, told CNN.“He supports releasing available doses immediately, and believes the government should stop holding back vaccine supply so we can get more shots in Americans’ arms now.”Biden will reveal more next week about how his administration will begin releasing the available doses once he takes office on Jan. 20, Ducklo said.The Trump administration fell far short of its goal of vaccinating 20 million Americans with a first of two required doses by the end of 2020.In a letter Friday to Health and Human Services Secretary Alex Azar and Operation Warp Speed Chief Operating Officer General Gustave Perna, a group of state governors urged the federal government to tap into the “reserved doses” of COVID-19 vaccine and send them to states that need them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/president-elect-biden-to-release-every-available-dose-of-covid-19-vaccine-report/story-j89UlhVSmh8m0wJXkU8saL.html
08-01-2021||World||US president Donald Trump will not attend Biden’s inauguration ceremony on January 20||President Donald Trump says he won’t attend President-elect Joe Biden’s Inauguration on Jan. 20. He will be the first incumbent president since Andrew Johnson to skip his successors inauguration.In a Friday tweet Trump said, “To all of those who have asked, I will not be going to the Inauguration on January 20th.”Trump offered no clues for how he would spent his final hours in office.Biden will become president at noon regardless of Trump’s plans.With 12 days left in his term, President Donald Trump has finally bent to reality amid growing talk of trying to force him out early, acknowledging he’ll peacefully leave after Congress affirmed his defeat.Trump led off a video from the White House Thursday by condemning the violence carried out in his name a day earlier at the Capitol. Then, for the first time on camera, he admitted his presidency would soon end — though he declined to mention President-elect Joe Biden by name or explicitly state he had lost.“A new administration will be inaugurated on Jan. 20,” Trump said in the video. “My focus now turns to ensuring a smooth, orderly and seamless transition of power. This moment calls for healing and reconciliation.”By next morning, however, Trump was back to his usual division. Instead of offering condolences to the police officer who died from injuries sustained during the riot, Trump took to twitter to commend the “great American Patriots” who’d voted for him.“They will not be disrespected or treated unfairly in any way, shape or form!!!” he tweeted.Thursday evening’s address, which appeared designed to stave off talk of a forced early eviction, came at the end of a day when the cornered president stayed out of sight in the White House. Silenced on some of his favorite internet lines of communication, he watched the resignations of several top aides, including two Cabinet secretaries.And as officials sifted through the aftermath of the pro-Trump mob’s siege of the U.S. Capitol, there was growing discussion of impeaching him a second time or invoking the 25th Amendment to oust him from the Oval Office.The invasion of the Capitol building, a powerful symbol of the nation’s democracy, rattled Republicans and Democrats alike. They struggled with how best to contain the impulses of a president deemed too dangerous to control his own social media accounts but who remains commander in chief of the world’s greatest military.“I’m not worried about the next election, I’m worried about getting through the next 14 days,” said Republican Sen. Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, one of Trump’s staunchest allies. He condemned the president’s role in Wednesday’s riots and said, “If something else happens, all options would be on the table.”Democratic House Speaker Nancy Pelosi declared that “the president of the United States incited an armed insurrection against America.” She called him “a very dangerous person who should not continue in office. This is urgent, an emergency of the highest magnitude.”Neither option to remove Trump seemed likely, with little time left in his term to draft the Cabinet members needed to invoke the amendment or to organize the hearings and trial mandated for an impeachment. But the fact that the dramatic options were even the subject of discussion in Washington’s corridors of power served as a warning to Trump.Fears of what a desperate president could do in his final days spread in the nation’s capital and beyond, including speculation Trump could incite more violence, make rash appointments, issue ill-conceived pardons — including for himself and his family — or even trigger a destabilizing international incident.The president’s video Thursday — which was released upon his return to Twitter after his account was restored — was a complete reversal from the one he put out just 24 hours earlier in which he said to the violent mob: “We love you. You’re very special.” His refusal to condemn the violence sparked a firestorm of criticism and, in the new video, he at last denounced the demonstrators’ “lawlessness and mayhem.”Aides said the video was also meant to slow the mass exodus of staffers and ward off potential legal trouble for Trump once he leaves office; White House counsel Pat Cipollone has repeatedly warned the president that he could be deemed responsible for inciting Wednesday’s violence.As for his feelings on leaving office, Trump told the nation that “serving as your president has been the honor of my lifetime” while hinting at a return to the public arena. He told supporters “our incredible journey is only just beginning.”Just a day earlier, Trump unleashed the destructive forces at the Capitol with his baseless claims of election fraud at a rally that prompted supporters to disrupt the congressional certification of Biden’s victory. After the storming of the Capitol and the eventual wee-hours certification of Biden’s win by members of Congress, Trump released a statement that acknowledged he would abide by a peaceful transfer of power on Jan. 20.The statement was posted by an aide and did not originate from the president’s own Twitter account, which has 88 million followers and for four years has been wielded as a political weapon that dictates policy and sows division and conspiracy.Trump couldn’t tweet it himself because, for the first time, the social media platform suspended his account, stating that the president had violated its rules of service by inciting violence. Facebook adopted a broader ban, saying Trump’s account would be offline until after Biden’s inauguration.Deprived of that social media lifeblood, Trump remained silent and ensconced in the executive mansion until Thursday evening. But around him, loyalists headed for the exits, their departures — which were coming in two weeks anyway — moved up to protest the president’s handling of the riot.Transportation Secretary Elaine Chao became the first Cabinet member to resign. Chao, married to Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, one of the lawmakers trapped at the Capitol on Wednesday, said in a message to staff that the attack “has deeply troubled me in a way that I simply cannot set aside.”Education Secretary Betsy DeVos followed. In her resignation letter Thursday, DeVos blamed Trump for inflaming tensions in the violent assault on the seat of the nation’s democracy. “There is no mistaking the impact your rhetoric had on the situation, and it is the inflection point for me,” she wrote.Others who resigned in the wake of the riot: Deputy National Security Advisor Matthew Pottinger; Ryan Tully, senior director for European and Russian affairs at the National Security Council; and first lady Melania Trump’s chief of staff Stephanie Grisham, a former White House press secretary.Mick Mulvaney, Trump’s former chief of staff-turned-special envoy to Northern Ireland, told CNBC that he had called Secretary of State Mike Pompeo “to let him know I was resigning. ... I can’t do it. I can’t stay.”Mulvaney said others who work for Trump had decided to remain in their posts in an effort to provide some sort of guardrails for the president during his final days in office.“Those who choose to stay, and I have talked with some of them, are choosing to stay because they’re worried the president might put someone worse in,” Mulvaney said.Mulvaney’s predecessor in the chief of staff job, retired U.S. Marine Corps general John Kelly, told CNN that “I think the Cabinet should meet and have a discussion” about Section 4 of the 25th Amendment — allowing the forceful removal of Trump by his own Cabinet.Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer joined Pelosi in declaring that Trump “should not hold office one day longer” and urged Vice President Mike Pence and the Cabinet to act. But Chao’s departure may stall nascent efforts to invoke the amendment.Staff-level discussions on the matter took place across multiple departments and even in parts of the White House, according to two people briefed on the talks. But no member of the Cabinet has publicly expressed support for the move — which would make Pence the acting president — though several were believed to be sympathetic to the notion, believing Trump is too volatile in his waning days in office.In the West Wing, shell-shocked aides were packing up, acting on a delayed directive to begin offboarding their posts ahead of the Biden team’s arrival. The slowdown before now was due to Trump’s single-minded focus on his defeat since Election Day at the expense of the other responsibilities of his office.Most glaringly, that included the fight against the raging coronavirus that is killing record numbers of Americans each day.Few aides had any sense of the president’s plans, with some wondering if Trump would largely remain out of sight until he left the White House. But the president has asked aides to explore a possible valedictory trip next week to the southern border as a means to highlight his immigration policies.White House press secretary Kayleigh McEnany on Thursday read a brief statement in which she declared that the Capitol siege was “appalling, reprehensible and antithetical to the American way.”But her words carried little weight. Trump has long made clear that only he speaks for his presidency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-president-donald-trump-will-not-attend-biden-s-inauguration-ceremony-on-january-20/story-JxMli1Gvn9j9j5nc4XDcsI.html
08-01-2021||World||Covid-19 ‘out of control’ in London, mayor declares ‘major incident’||Facing continuing surge of new Covid-19 cases, London mayor Sadiq Khan on Friday declared a ‘major incident’ – which is equivalent to declaring an emergency response – and urged people in the capital to stay at home and help hospitals from being overwhelmed.A ‘major incident’ is defined as an event or situation with a range of serious consequences which requires special arrangements to be implemented by one or more emergency responder agency. The ambulance service is now taking nearly 8,000 emergency calls a day now.A ‘major incident’ is beyond the scope of business-as-usual operations, and is likely to involve serious harm, damage, disruption or risk to human life or welfare, essential services, the environment or national security, according to regulations.Khan took the decision as the chair of the London Resilience Forum following discussions with leaders from NHS London, local authorities, Public Health England and the emergency services in the capital. It comes as the number of Covid-19 cases in London has exceeded 1,000 per 100,000, putting immense pressure on an already stretched NHS. Between 30 December and 6 January, the number of patients in London hospitals grew by 27% (from 5,524 to 7,034) and the number on mechanical ventilation grew by 42% (from 640 to 908). Over the last three days alone, the NHS has announced 477 deaths in London hospitals following a positive test for Covid-19.The impact is also being felt right across the emergency services with hundreds of firefighters from London Fire Brigade once again assisting London Ambulance Service by volunteering to drive ambulances as the ambulance services faces one of the busiest times in its history. Khan said: “The situation in London is now critical with the spread of the virus out of control. The number of cases in London has increased rapidly with more than a third more patients being treated in our hospitals now compared to the peak of the pandemic last April”.The stark reality is that we will run out of beds for patients in the next couple of weeks unless the spread of the virus slows down drastically. We are declaring a major incident because the threat this virus poses to our city is at crisis point. If we do not take immediate action now, our NHS could be overwhelmed and more people will die”.“Londoners continue to make huge sacrifices and I am today imploring them to please stay at home unless it is absolutely necessary for you to leave. Stay at home to protect yourself, your family, friends and other Londoners and to protect our NHS.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-out-of-control-in-london-mayor-declares-major-incident/story-IdHYWhLqNCIKzvBXi6JpyK.html
08-01-2021||World||UK regulator approves Covid-19 vaccine from Moderna||The UK’s medicines regulator on Friday approved the vaccine developed by Moderna, making it the third Covid-19 shot approved for use in the country after those developed by Pfizer/BioNTech and Oxford/AstraZeneca, which have been administered to 1.5 million people so far.The Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) said Moderna is the second mRNA vaccine (the Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine approved in December 2020 is also an mRNA vaccine). The UK has ordered 17 million doses of the Moderna vaccine that is assessed to be 94% effective.MHRA chief executive June Raine said: “Having a third Covid-19 vaccine approved for supply following a robust and thorough assessment of all the available data is an important goal to have achieved and I am proud that the agency has helped to make this a reality”.“Once in use, all Covid-19 vaccines are continually monitored by the MHRA. This ensures that the benefits in protecting people against Covid-19 continue to far outweigh any potential side effects,” she added.As agreed when the UK originally pre-ordered the vaccine, supplies will begin to be delivered from spring once Moderna expands its production capability, officials said. The vaccine will be available to people for free.Health secretary Matt Hancock said: “Through our vaccine delivery plan we have already vaccinated nearly 1.5 million people across the UK. The Moderna vaccine will boost our vaccination programme even further once doses become available from the spring.”The Moderna vaccine will be deployed through hospital hubs for NHS and care staff and older patients to get vaccinated; local community services with local teams and general practitioners s already signing up to take part in the programme; and vaccination centres across the country, ensuring people can access a vaccine regardless of where they live.An official statement said that anyone with a previous history of allergic reactions to the ingredients of the Moderna vaccine should not receive it, but those with any other allergies such as a food allergy can have the vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-regulator-approves-covid-19-vaccine-from-moderna/story-qy3tNH7CcBGQsrwd1NNN6K.html
08-01-2021||World||China holds 1st meet with South Asian nations on Covid, poverty relief cooperation||China has held its first meeting with Pakistan, Afghanistan, Nepal, Sri Lanka and Bangladesh to discuss Covid-19 and poverty relief cooperation besides resuming trade and economic ties disrupted by the pandemic. Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson Hua Chunying told a media briefing, here on Friday, that the first meeting with the South Asian countries on anti-epidemic cooperation and poverty reduction was held on January 6. This is China’s third meeting held with these countries to discuss cooperation to deal with Covid-19. In July last year, Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi held a video conference with his counterparts of Pakistan, Afghanistan and Nepal to discuss plans to contain Covid-19, boost economic recovery and the resumption of Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) projects. Later in November last year, China conducted a Vice-Ministerial meeting on controlling Covid-19 with Bangladesh, Nepal, Pakistan and Sri Lanka. This is the first time China has included poverty relief, non-traditional security challenges besides Covid-19 cooperation in these meetings. Hua said the January 6 meeting was a follow up to the two ministerial conferences held last year. “In this meeting, the representatives shared experience on anti-epidemic and poverty relief,” she said. “They talked about dealing with the impact of the pandemic, resuming economic and trade cooperation, dealing with non-traditional security challenges and advancing sustainable development and reached initial consensus,” she said. “It shows our strong will and confidence in dealing with challenges together and achieving cooperation. China would like to work with all sides in implementing our consensus and make a greater contribution to building a regional community with a shared future for health”, Hua said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-holds-1st-meet-with-south-asian-nations-on-covid-poverty-relief-cooperation/story-pLdx5HkApaFpQHzt6sh7oN.html
08-01-2021||World||Hong Kong grants bail to arrested pro-democracy activists||Authorities in Hong Kong said Friday they have granted bail to most of the 55 pro-democracy activists who were arrested this week in a sweeping crackdown on dissent. One of the activists said they could still be charged under a tough national security law.The activists were accused of taking part in an unofficial primary election last year that authorities said was part of a plan to paralyze the Legislative Council and subvert state power. The primary was held to choose the best candidates to field as the pro-democracy camp sought to win a majority of seats.The mass arrests Wednesday were the biggest move against Hong Kong’s democracy movement since Beijing imposed the national security law in the semi-autonomous territory last June to quell dissent following months of anti-government protests in 2019.Three of the 55 arrested people were not released — activists Joshua Wong and Tam Tak-chi, who were already in jail on separate charges, and former Hong Kong Democratic Party Chairman Wu Chi-wai, who remained in custody for failing to meet bail conditions in a separate protest-related case.Wu had been granted bail last month after being charged with inciting others to join unauthorized protests in July 2019. He was ordered to surrender his travel documents, and authorities later learned that he did not hand in his British National Overseas passport.Police said none of the activists arrested Wednesday on suspicion of subversion under the security law had been formally charged.Former pro-democracy lawmaker Lam Cheuk-ting told reporters that determinations of whether to formally prosecute people in Hong Kong are not based on evidence, but on a “political decision” by officials.“They haven’t made any charges against us yet,” said Lam, who was among those arrested on Wednesday. “But I’m quite sure that they will charge some of us sooner or later, whether they have sufficient evidence or not.”He said the purpose of the arrests was to silence Hong Kong’s people and create a “chilling effect.”Separately, three people were sentenced to up to 5 1/2 years in prison on Friday for rioting at Hong Kong’s airport and assaulting a Chinese journalist in August 2019 at the height of the anti-government protests.Protesters blockaded the city’s airport for two days. Some turned on individuals they believed were spies or undercover police, and a reporter from China’s state-owned Global Times newspaper was tied up and attacked by a group of protesters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/hong-kong-grants-bail-to-arrested-pro-democracy-activists/story-Mr50tDZA8303NPmedygKGN.html
08-01-2021||World||Won’t be blackmailed into visiting Hazara mourning slain kin, says defiant Pak PM||Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan has said he will not be “blackmailed” into flying to Quetta, the capital of Balochistan province, to meet Hazara protesters who are yet to bury the 11 coal miners killed in a terror attack claimed by Islamic State on January 3. Khan said that he would visit the families only after the slain miners have been buried. “We can’t do this if you set a condition for the burial of the dead,” he told journalists while speaking at a conference in Islamabad on Friday . “If you bury them today, then I will take a plane and come to meet you today.”Khan said he sent three members of his cabinet to meet the protesters to assure them that the state will take care of them and compensate them for the loss of their loved ones. However, instead of soothing nerves, the visit of the three ministers angered members of the Shia Hazara community. Special advisor Zulfikar Bokhari had asked the protestors what benefit they would get if the Pakistan PM came to visit them. Despite calls since January 3 and nationwide protests by members of the Hazara community, the Pakistan PM has refused to visit the protesting families while opposition leaders have visited the protesters, including PPP Chairperson Bilawal Bhutto Zardari and PML-N vice president Maryam Nawaz.The massacre in Machh coal mine “is part of the conspiracy that I have been speaking about since March,” Imran Khan told the media, adding, “India is trying to spread sectarian violence in Pakistan.”However, interior minister Shaikh Rasheed told a media briefing on Friday that it was still not clear who was behind the attack. “It could be Daesh [Islamic State], it could be any outfit,” he told journalists.He said the country’s intelligence agencies are still to come up with their findings.When asked about the PM’s reluctance to visit Quetta, the interior minister hinted that there were security concerns about his travel to the Balochistan provincial capital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/won-t-be-blackmailed-into-visiting-hazara-mourning-slain-kin-says-defiant-pak-pm/story-YnGxDRBQIU2ueksLw8qrHJ.html
08-01-2021||World||Pak anti-terror court jails Mumbai attack mastermind Lakhvi||A Pakistani court on Friday sentenced Zakiur Rehman Lakhvi, the globally designated terrorist leader of Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) and mastermind of Mumbai attack, to three prison terms of five years each over terror financing. The sentences, under three sections of Anti-Terrorism Act, will run concurrently. The conviction and sentencing at the special bench of an anti-terrorism court in Lahore concluded in a single hearing of just few hours after Lakhvi was produced before it for the first time since his arrest on January 2. The hurried action appeared to prove the view that Pakistan was scampering to comply with Financial Action Task Force (FATF), which is set to take up this month and in February the case of the country, which is currently in the ‘grey list’ of the global watchdog on terror financing and money laundering.Judge Ejaz Ahmad Buttar, who pronounced the verdict, also asked Lakhvi, an operations commander of LeT, to pay a fine of Rs300,000 for running a medical dispensary to collect and disburse funds for terror activities.The Counter-Terrorism Department of Punjab Police, which had arrested Lakhvi, clarified that he was detained in relation to terrorism financing and not for a “specific militant attack”.The court on Friday announced its verdict after recording the statements of all witnesses in the case.India accuses Lakhvi of masterminding the 26/11 attacks of November, 2008 in Mumbai that killed 166 people. He was arrested by Pakistan in 2008 but later released on bail. Pakistan claims that India didn’t provide concrete evidence to convict Lakhvi.According to a UN Security Council sanctions committee, which designated him a global terrorist, Lakhvi is the chief of operations and military commander of the LeT. A close relative of LeT founder Hafiz Mohammad Saeed, he had a central role in planning and executing the assault on Mumbai, according to Indian and US security officials.Lakhvi was born in Okara district of Pakistan’s Punjab province, which was also home to Ajmal Amir Kasab, the only one to be captured alive among the 10 terrorists involved in the Mumbai attacks. In the 1990s, Lakhvi was a member of the Jamiat Ahl-e-Hadith, LeT’s parent body.Lakhvi worked at LeT’s main centre at Muridke near Lahore in the 1990s. Security officials say he was actively involved in fighting in Jammu and Kashmir and later planning the LeT’s operations in the state.(With inputs from Agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pak-anti-terror-court-jails-mumbai-attack-mastermind-lakhvi/story-i6r0fsjMWCwR2wFHZRij0K.html
08-01-2021||World||UK approves Moderna’s Covid-19 vaccine||The UK’s regulatory authority on Friday approved a third Covid-19 vaccine for use in the country, made by the company Moderna.However, supplies of the new jab are not expected to be available until the spring in a few weeks’ time as the UK has pre-ordered 7 million doses. In trials with more than 30,000, the Moderna vaccine offered nearly 95 per cent protection from severe Covid-19. The Moderna vaccine works in a similar way to the Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine that is already being offered by the National Health Service (NHS). It requires temperatures of around -20C for shipping -- similar to a normal freezer. In comparison, the Pfizer/BioNTech one requires temperatures closer to -75C, making transport logistics much more difficult.The Oxford/AstraZeneca jab is easier to store and distribute, as it can be kept at normal fridge temperature. All three vaccines, now cleared for use in the UK, require a second booster shot.Around 1.5 million people in the UK have had at least one dose of Covid-19 vaccine so far, the Pfizer/BioNTech and Oxford/AstraZeneca jabs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-approves-moderna-s-covid-19-vaccine/story-Q7KZllU0IWaLQr6ukPfquI.html
08-01-2021||World||Israel postpones PM Benjamin Netanyahu’s trial amid Covid-19 lockdown||Israel has postponed the next hearing in Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s corruption trial because of a tightened coronavirus lockdown that began Friday. The Jerusalem District Court said the hearing scheduled for Wednesday would be postponed indefinitely because of the number of people required to attend in person. Netanyahu has been indicted on charges of bribery, fraud and breach of trust connected to three long-running investigations. He has denied any wrongdoing and says he is the victim of a “witch hunt” by hostile media, law enforcement and judicial officials. In recent months he has faced weekly protests calling on him to resign over the allegations and the government’s handling of the coronavirus crisis. Israel has seen a recent surge in cases despite unleashing one of the world’s fastest vaccination campaigns. The country has given the first of two vaccine doses to nearly 20 per cent of its population, and Netanyahu said Thursday that it has secured enough vaccines to inoculate the whole adult population by the end of March. Netanyahu has placed the vaccination drive at the center of his campaign for re-election that month, when Israel will hold its fourth nationwide vote in less than two years. In the meantime, he has called on Israelis to make “one last big effort” to halt transmission by adhering to the tightened restrictions. Most schools and businesses were closed starting Friday, with people required to remain within 1,000 meters (yards) from home except for essential needs. Public gatherings are heavily restricted and public transportation is limited. The restrictions are to last for at least two weeks. Thousands of police will be deployed to enforce them, with roadblocks set up on major thoroughfares. Israel was already in its third national lockdown since the start of the pandemic. Deputy Police Commissioner Ziv Sagiv called on people to stay home, saying police would operate in “every possible way” to enforce the restrictions. Israel has reported 474,000 cases since the start of the pandemic, including 3,565 deaths. It currently has more than 60,000 active cases, and officials had warned that without the tightened lockdown its medical facilities could be overwhelmed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/israel-postpones-pm-benjamin-netanyahu-s-trial-amid-covid-19-lockdown/story-BPFhgqyjGxBGqo9kX23c0H.html
08-01-2021||World||People who took part in US Capitol riots reportedly losing their jobs||As images of Wednesday’s insurrection at the US Capitol circulated online, those who took part in it were being identified and some even lost their jobs because of it.CNN reported that Navistar, a direct marketing company in Maryland, announced that an employee had been terminated after he was photographed wearing his company ID badge inside the breached Capitol building.“While we support all employees’ right to peaceful, lawful exercise of free speech, any employee demonstrating dangerous conduct that endangers the health and safety of others will no longer have an employment opportunity with Navistar Direct Marketing,” the company said in a statement provided to CNN.Paul Davis, an attorney, is no longer employed at his company, Goosehead Insurance after social media posts appeared to show him talking about his participation in Wednesday’s events. In one video, Davis says, “We’re all trying to get into the Capitol to stop this.”Davis said he was “peacefully demonstrating” the whole time, and was not trying to actively break into the Capitol. “I said ‘trying to get into the Capitol,’ meaning to voice a protest. Not in any violent way,” he wrote.Rick Saccone, a former Pennsylvania state representative, shared images on his Facebook page of himself outside the Capitol. Saint Vincent College, where Saccone served as an adjunct professor, immediately began an investigation said Michael Hustava, the institution’s Senior Director of Marketing and Communications.“As a result of that investigation, Dr Saccone has submitted and we have accepted his letter of resignation, effective immediately. He will no longer be associated with Saint Vincent College in any capacity,” Hustava said in a statement provided to CNN.Wednesday began with a Trump rally near the White House with the president telling tens of thousands of supporters to march to Capitol Hill to protest election results while repeating unsubstantiated claims that his defeat resulted from massive election fraud.Trump responded later in the day with a tepid statement urging supporters to leave the Capitol as lawmakers sheltered in locked offices and federal police battled protesters. At least four people died during the melee.In all, at least five people have died including a Capitol police officer in connection with Wednesday’s unrest, CNN reported on Thursday.In a late-night session of Congress after police secured the Capitol, lawmakers voted to certify Biden’s victory. Biden is set to be inaugurated on January 20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/people-who-took-part-in-us-capitol-riots-reportedly-losing-their-jobs/story-NBr5mlEpTqxZYiAQMCYGQO.html
08-01-2021||World||Zaki-ur-Rehman Lakhvi: UN-designated terrorist, 26/11 mastermind||Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) operations commander Zaki-ur-Rehman Lakhvi, one of the alleged masterminds of the 2008 Mumbai terror attacks, and was on Friday sentenced to 15 years in jail in a terror-financing case by an anti-terrorism court in Pakistan’s Lahore. The 61-year-old Lakhvi, who was on bail since 2015 in the Mumbai attacks case, was arrested by the Counter-Terrorism Department (CTD) of Punjab province last Saturday.“The Anti-Terrorism Court (ATC) Lahore convicted Lakhvi for commission of offences of terrorism financing in a case registered by the CTD for 15 years under different section of the Anti-Terrorism Act 1997,” news agency PTI quoted a court official as saying after the hearing.Judge Ejaz Ahmad Buttar sentenced Lakhvi, who pleaded before the court that he was “falsely implicated” in the case, to five years of rigorous imprisonment each on three counts with a fine of PKR 100,000 each on three counts. “In default of payment of fine, he will have to undergo an imprisonment of six months each on three counts. He has been sent to prison to serve the sentences,” the official said, according to PTI.Also read |Global terrorist Masood Azhar is finally a wanted man in Pak. Dawood next?Lakhvi, a close relative of LeT founder Hafiz Mohammad Saeed, had a central role in planning and executing the assault on Mumbai that killed 166 people and injured hundreds more in November 2008, according to Indian and US security officials.Here are 10 things you need to know about Lakhvi:1. Lakhvi was born in Okara district of Pakistan’s Punjab province, the same district that was home to Ajmal Amir Kasab, the only one of the 10 terrorists involved in the Mumbai attacks to be captured alive. In the 1990s, Lakhvi was a member of the Jamiat Ahl-e-Hadith, LeT’s parent body. 2. Lakhvi worked at LeT’s main centre at Muridke near Lahore in the 1990s. Security officials say he was actively involved in fighting in Jammu and Kashmir and later planning the LeT’s operations in the state.3. Lakhvi was arrested about a week after the Mumbai attacks when Pakistani soldiers raided a LeT camp on the outskirts of Muzaffarabad, the capital of Pakistan-occupied Kashmir. 4. A few months later, he and six other men were charged with planning, financing and executing the assault on Mumbai. Indian and US security officials say telephone and VoIP intercepts showed Lakhvi was present in a LeT control room in Karachi from where the attackers received instructions.5. Despite being in prison from December 2008 to April 2015, Lakhvi continued to be the operations commander of the LeT. Lakhvi had unfettered access to mobile phones and the internet, allowing him to direct the day-to-day activities of militants. His youngest wife was allowed to stay with him in jail and he fathered a child sometime in 2010 as a result of these conjugal visits, according to Abu Jundal alias Zabiuddin Ansari, the Indian LeT operative deported from Saudi Arabia in 2012. Also read | Pak has quietly moved 26/11 attacks accused Hafiz Saeed out of jail. He is home: Intel6. Lakhvi had several rooms next to the jailer’s office in Adiala Jail and received about 100 visitors every day who could meet him without seeking permission from authorities. Former Pakistan army chief General Ashfaq Kayani refused to act on a request from US authorities to take away Lakhvi’s mobile phones.7. Lakhvi’s whereabouts had not been known since he was released on bail from a jail in Rawalpindi in April 2015. However, it was widely believed that he had continued playing a key role in directing the activities of the LeT even while he was in prison after being arrested in the aftermath of the Mumbai carnage. Indian diplomats and security officials have in the past described the trial of Lakhvi and the six other suspects in a Pakistani anti-terrorism court as a farce. 8. Lakhvi was arrested by the Counter-Terrorism Department (CTD) of Punjab province last Saturday on terror financing charges.9. Lakhvi is accused of running a dispensary and using funds collected for terrorism financing. He and others also collected funds from this dispensary and used these funds for further terrorism financing. He also used these funds for personal expenses, CTD has said.10. Lakhvi is also an UN-designated terrorist, in addition to belonging to proscribed organisation LeT.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/zaki-ur-rehman-lakhvi-un-designated-terrorist-26-11-mastermind/story-HEeN4HhlWMDgYy69RecioN.html
08-01-2021||World||EU procures additional 300 million doses of Pfizer’s Covid-19 vaccine||The European Union on Friday secured a deal for an additional 300 million doses of the Covid-19 vaccine developed by Pfizer and BioNTech in an attempt to enable member nations to ramp up their vaccination programmes. President of the European Commission Ursula von der Leyen said the move was a “very positive development.”“We right now have access to 300 million doses of the BioNTech-Pfizer vaccine. We now have agreed with BioNTech-Pfizer to extend the contract. With the new agreement, we could purchase a total of up to an additional 300 million doses of the vaccine. In other words, this will allow us to double the number of doses,” Von der Leyen said. We make sure Europeans have sufficient doses of safe & effective #COVID19 vaccines. We now enable EU countries to buy more doses of the 1st vaccine approved in EU. They can now buy up to 300 million more doses of the #BioNTech/@Pfizer vaccine.https://t.co/vjZd0L17VLMoreover, 75 million of these new doses would be available by the second quarter of the year and the remaining doses would be delivered in the third and fourth quarters, she added. Von der Leyen also said that the vaccine has already been approved by Europe’s regulator, the European Medicines Agency (EMA), and would therefore require no new negotiations for the deal. Also, the vaccine has been authorised already thus making it easier for the member states to continue their inoculation program, she added.On Wednesday, Europe granted its approval to Moderna’s Covid-19 vaccine, the second in European Union. “With these two authorised vaccines, we have already secured a number of doses that we need to vaccinate 380 million Europeans. This is more than 80 per cent of the European population,” von der Leyen added. She also expressed the belief that other vaccines would also be approved in the “coming weeks and months.”When asked if individual member nations of the EU would be allowed to negotiate their own deals with vaccine manufacturers, von der Leyen said “There will be no parallel negotiations; no parallel contracts. The framework we are all working in is a framework of 27 [nations]. Together we are negotiating, together we are procuring.”Click here to read our complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicEarlier on Monday, Germany said that the country has signed a memorandum of understanding with BioNTech for supplying 30 million doses of their vaccine on a bilateral basis. The country also said that the EU was aware of the MoU, according to a news report by Reuters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/eu-procures-additional-300-million-doses-of-pfizer-s-covid-19-vaccine/story-gBhfgWFS61D56IGVuJFTUL.html
08-01-2021||World||Mumbai attacks mastermind and LeT commander Zaki-ur-Rehman Lakhvi sentenced to 15 years in prison by Pak court||A Pakistan court on Friday sentenced Mumbai attack mastermind and Lashkar-e-Taiba commander Zaki-ur-Rehman Lakhvi to 15 years in prison in a terror financing case. Lakhvi was arrested by Pakistani authorities on charges of terror financing on Saturday. He is alleged to have played an important role behind the Mumbai attacks, during which 166 people were killed and many other injured in November 2008.“The Anti-Terrorism Court (ATC) Lahore convicted Lakhvi for commission of offences of terrorism financing in a case registered by the CTD for 15 years under different section of the Anti-Terrorism Act 1997,” a court official was quoted as saying by news agency PTI. Also Read: Global terrorist Masood Azhar is finally a wanted man in Pak. Dawood next?These arrests come ahead of Financial Action Task Force’s review meeting in February regarding Pakistan inclusion in its ‘grey list’ for misuse of funds for acts of terrorism. A Pakistan court earlier on Thursday issued an arrest warrant for banned Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM) chief Masood Azhar on the charges of terror financing. Indian government officials familiar with the developments believe that Masood Azhar’s arrest warrant was issued as Pakistan is currently facing pressure from the Financial Action Task Force (FATF), which is monitoring the country for its alleged role in terror financing and money laundering. Also Read: US welcomes LeT commander Zakiur Rehman Lakhvi’s arrest on charges of terror financingPakistan was put in FATF’s grey list in 2018 after the global money laundering and terrorist financing watchdog pointed out failing to control terror financing and money laundering. In October, FATF president Marcus Pleyer had warned Pakistan that the nation needs to increase its efforts to control misuse of funds for acts of terrorism. Pleyer had also told the Pakistan government to quickly act on the body’s recommendations, failing which could result the nation entering FATF’s ‘black list.’||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/zaki-arrested/story-1JlNSyM02rOc1bS7EKFNMI.html
08-01-2021||World||Tensions mount in Thai protests as Bangkok braces for major rally||Tensions are rising around Thailand’s pro-democracy protests, with six people shot last week and police using tear gas and water cannon on the streets of Bangkok.As the Thai capital braces for the next major rally on Wednesday, AFP takes a look at the forces in play and what might come next in a country with a long history of political unrest.Protesters getting tough After four months of rallies, sometimes involving tens of thousands of demonstrators, the mood is getting tougher, with protest leaders warning they are not prepared to compromise.More than 50 people were injured during a protest near parliament last week, six of them with gunshot wounds, according to medical officials, though it is not clear who was responsible for the shooting. Police are investigating but have not made any arrests.Slogans and insults against the monarchy -- unthinkable only a short time ago -- are proliferating, while riot police showed last week they are ready to take firm action against the rallies.The student-led movement has gained a strong base on the streets and social media and experts say the “Red Shirts”, a once-vociferous group who led major street protests a decade ago, may join the ranks.The movement is calling for Prime Minister Prayut Chan-O-Cha -- who came to power in a coup in 2014 -- to quit, for constitutional changes and for reform of the monarchy.Siripan Nogsuan Sawasdee, professor of political science at Bangkok’s Chulalongkorn University, told AFP the movement needs to prioritise its demands and focus its leadership on a few prominent figureheads if it is to make progress.But with their taboo-smashing demands for reform of the monarchy, Siripan said, the protesters have already “allowed the emergence of a new political culture, pushing for a freedom of expression unprecedented in the history of the kingdom”.Authorities ‘playing by ear’The authorities have had a cautious response to the movement since it sprang up in July -- announcing emergency measures then withdrawing them, arresting protest leaders then freeing them again.“Since the beginning of the movement, the government has played it by ear,” said Paul Chambers of Naresuan University.Unlike previous Thai protest movements, the majority of the demonstrators are young middle-class city dwellers.The authorities may be wary of tarnishing Thailand’s international image with a repeat of the crackdown on the Red Shirts in 2010 that left 90 people dead in the heart of Bangkok’s tourist and shopping district.However, the authorities have hardened their tone in recent days, brandishing the threat of “section 112” -- the kingdom’s famously strict royal defamation laws, which carry up to 15 years in prison.Royal charm offensiveKing Maha Vajiralongkorn, not seen much in public before the protest movement, has launched a charm offensive, making numerous appearances, talking to supporters and declaring his “love” for all Thais.But he remains a controversial figure and does not enjoy the same level of affection built up by his late father, King Bhumibol Adulyadej, during his seven decades on the throne, which ended in 2016.The present king has strengthened his powers by taking direct control of the royal fortune and army units. And his frequent stays in Germany have also raised questions -- some criticise him for not being concerned enough about his subjects during the coronavirus pandemic.“There is evidently a campaign to rally legitimacy. At issue is whether this should have been done much earlier, whether there is still sufficient time,” said Thitinan Pongsudhirak, head of the Institute of Security and International Studies at Bangkok’s Chulalongkorn University.A violent climax?Thailand has often seen protest movements end in bloodshed -- twice in the 1970s, then in 1992 and in 2010 -- and experts warn a repeat could be brewing.Chambers said “ultra-royalist right-wing groups” are already forming to harass democracy demonstrators.Some are talking of a possible coup, to add to the dozen Thailand has seen since its move to democracy in 1932.In the short term, next week brings a potential watershed with a judgment expected in a constitutional court case against Prayut for allegedly misusing the army chief’s official residence.If he loses, he looks set to be thrown out of office -- a development that would likely take much of the immediate tension out of the unrest on the streets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/tensions-mount-in-thai-protests-as-bangkok-braces-for-major-rally/story-fqt8BaMrEJhhPfqiMWAEZM.html
08-01-2021||World||White House officials, advisers believe Capitol attack taints Trump’s political future||The violent assault on the US Capitol by President Donald Trump’s supporters and his long refusal to accept the results of the 2020 election have jeopardized the president’s political future and tainted prospects for his top lieutenants and family members, current and former administration officials said.The Republican president has dangled the possibility of running for president in 2024, and political operatives had expected him to exert influence over the Republican Party for years to come.But his behavior on Wednesday - goading supporters to march on the Capitol to encourage lawmakers to overturn Democrat Joe Biden’s win in the Nov. 3 election, and then failing quickly to call on them to stand down after violence ensued - has sickened people who work and used to work for him and, they said, changed the equation for his post-presidential relevance.“It was a dereliction of duty as commander-in-chief and I think he will be mortally wounded from a political career going forward,” one former White House official who worked for Trump said on Thursday. “He has blood on his hands from yesterday. A woman died.”Trump supporters broke into the Capitol, pushed past police, and roamed through the building, forcing lawmakers and Vice President Mike Pence to evacuate. One woman died after being shot by police; three other individuals died of medical emergencies.“There’s no recovering from what happened. It was sedition. I don’t see how there’s a future,” said another former administration official, referring to Trump and his top aides. “I think the Cabinet members that stayed and that aren’t speaking out now or even quietly resigning have a stain forever.”The former administration official singled out Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, a Trump acolyte who may have presidential ambitions, for not doing more to condemn what happened. Pompeo issued a tweet in which he called the violence “unacceptable.” The State Department declined to comment further.US Transportation Secretary Elaine Chao announced on Thursday she would resign, as did Secretary of Education Betsy DeVos, who cited the impact of Trump’s rhetoric in spurring the Capitol melee. Other lower level administration officials have announced their departures, too, with roughly two weeks to go before the end of Trump’s administration.The president came as close as he has to a concession in a video statement on Thursday night in which he pledged to work towards a smooth transfer of power to the new administration and called the violence at the Capitol a “heinous attack.”But the statement was late, and it came after intervention from his daughter, Ivanka, according to one current White House official, who noted that the political hit from the week’s events would extend to his family members, such as daughter-in-law Lara Trump, a potential candidate for the US Senate in North Carolina.The former officials who spoke to Reuters for this story had been broadly supportive of the president, even after leaving their posts earlier in his four-year tenure.Trump has raised massive amounts of money in the period since the election, capitalizing on discontent he has fomented by falsely claiming the election was rigged against him through widespread voter fraud.But another former White House official said the president’s ability to bring in cash would be inhibited now, too, with the exception of smaller donations from still-ardent supporters in his political base.“I think anything above low-dollar-crazy is going to be a problem,” the former official said. “Anything above the $100 giver is out.”Many elected officials within the Republican Party have turned on Trump because of the violence, a break that could lessen his leverage over the political futures of other Republicans as well as his own. Senator Lindsey Graham, a long-time defender of the president, declared on Wednesday night that “enough is enough” and said Biden had been elected lawfully.“I don’t think he’s going to be elected to anything else,” a third former White House official said of Trump. “As time goes on, he will continue to be a very strong voice and he will have a very big following, but ... I think this lessens the chances that he runs for anything.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/white-house-officials-advisers-believe-capitol-attack-adversely-affects-trump-s-political-future/story-bUb6yWSq4Z3XJguSFim8cL.html
08-01-2021||World||Capitol Police rejected offers of federal help to quell mob||Three days before supporters of President Donald Trump rioted at the Capitol, the Pentagon asked the U.S Capitol Police if it needed National Guard manpower. And as the mob descended on the building Wednesday, Justice Department leaders reached out to offer up FBI agents. The police turned them down both times, according to senior defense officials and two people familiar with the matter.Despite plenty of warnings of a possible insurrection and ample resources and time to prepare, the Capitol Police planned only for a free speech demonstration.Still stinging from the uproar over the violent response by law enforcement to protests last June near the White House, officials also were intent on avoiding any appearance that the federal government was deploying active duty or National Guard troops against Americans.The result is the US Capitol was overrun Wednesday and officers in a law enforcement agency with a large operating budget and experience in high-security events protecting lawmakers were overwhelmed for the world to see. Four protesters died, including one shot inside the building. A Capitol Police officer died Thursday after being injured in the Wednesday melee.The rioting and loss of control has raised serious questions over security at the Capitol for future events. The actions of the day also raise troubling concerns about the treatment of mainly white Trump supporters, who were allowed to roam through the building for hours, while Black and brown protesters who demonstrated last year over police brutality faced more robust and aggressive policing.“This was a failure of imagination, a failure of leadership,” said Houston Police Chief Art Acevedo, whose department responded to several large protests last year following the death of George Floyd. “The Capitol Police must do better and I don’t see how we can get around that.”Acevedo said he has attended events on the Capitol grounds to honor slain police officers that had higher fences and a stronger security presence than what he saw on video Wednesday.Army Secretary Ryan McCarthy said that as the rioting was underway, it became clear that the Capitol Police were overrun. But he said there was no contingency planning done in advance for what forces could do in case of a problem at the Capitol because Defense Department help was turned down. “They’ve got to ask us, the request has to come to us,” said McCarthy.US Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund, under pressure from Schumer, Pelosi and other congressional leaders, was forced to resign. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell asked for and received the resignation of the Sergeant at Arms of the Senate, Michael Stenger, effective immediately. Paul Irving, the longtime Sergeant at Arms of the House, also resigned.“There was a failure of leadership at the top,” House Speaker Nancy Pelosi said.The US Capitol had been closed to the public since March because of the Covid-19 pandemic, which has now killed more than 360,000 people in the US. But normally, the building is open to the public and lawmakers pride themselves on their availability to their constituents.It is not clear how many officers were on-duty Wednesday, but the complex is policed by a total of 2,300 officers for 16 acres of ground who protect the 435 House representatives, 100 US senators and their staff. By comparison, the city of Minneapolis has about 840 uniformed officers policing a population of 425,000 in a 6,000-acre area.There were signs for weeks that violence could strike on January 6, when Congress convened for a joint session to finish counting the Electoral College votes that would confirm Democrat Joe Biden had won the presidential election.On far-right message boards and in pro-Trump circles, plans were being made.The leader of the far-right extremist group Proud Boys was arrested coming into the nation’s capital this week on a weapons charge for carrying empty high-capacity magazines emblazoned with their logo. He admitted to police that he had made statements about rioting in Washington, local officials said.Both Acevedo and Ed Davis, a former Boston police commissioner who led the department during the 2013 Boston Marathon bombing, said they did not fault the responses of clearly overmatched front-line officers, but the planning and leadership before the riot.“Was there a structural feeling that well, these are a bunch of conservatives, they’re not going to do anything like this? Quite possibly,” Davis said. “That’s where the racial component to this comes into play in my mind. Was there a lack of urgency or a sense that this could never happen with this crowd? Is that possible? Absolutely.”Trump and his allies were perhaps the biggest megaphones, encouraging protesters to turn out in force and support his false claim that the election had been stolen from him. He egged them on during a rally shortly before they marched to the Capitol and rioted. His personal attorney Rudy Giuliani, a former New York mayor known for his tough-on-crime stance, called for “trial by combat.”McCarthy said law enforcement’s intelligence estimates of the potential crowd size in the run-up to the protests “were all over the board,” from a low of 2,000 to as many as 80,000.So the Capitol Police had set up no hard perimeter around the Capitol. Officers were focused on one side where lawmakers were entering to vote to certify Biden’s win.Barricades were set up on the plaza in front of the building, but police retreated from the line and a mob of people broke through. Lawmakers, at first unaware of the security breach, continued their debate. Soon they were cowering under chairs. Eventually they were escorted from the House and Senate. Journalists were left alone in rooms for hours as the mob attempted to break into barricaded rooms.Sund, the Capitol Police chief, said he had expected a display of “First Amendment activities” that instead turned into a “violent attack.” But Gus Papathanasiou, head of the Capitol Police union, said planning failures left officers exposed without backup or equipment against surging crowds of rioters.“We were lucky that more of those who breached the Capitol did not have firearms or explosives and did not have a more malign intent,” Papathanasiou said in a statement. “Tragic as the deaths are that resulted from the attack, we are fortunate the casualty toll was not higher.”The Justice Department, FBI and other agencies began to monitor hotels, flights and social media for weeks and were expecting large crowds. Mayor Muriel Bowser had warned of impending violence for weeks, and businesses had closed in anticipation. She requested National Guard help from the Pentagon on December 31, but the Capitol Police turned down the January 3 offer from the Defense Department, according to Kenneth Rapuano, assistant defense secretary for homeland security.“We asked more than once and the final return that we got on Sunday the 3rd was that they would not be asking DOD for assistance,” he said.The Justice Department’s offer for FBI support as the protesters grew violent was rejected by the Capitol Police, according to the two people familiar with the matter. They were not authorized to publicly discuss the matter and spoke on condition of anonymity.By then, it was too late.Officers from the Metropolitan Police Department descended. Agents from nearly every Justice Department agency, including the FBI, were called in. So was the Secret Service and the Federal Protective Service. The Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives sent two tactical teams. Police from as far away as New Jersey arrived to help.It took four hours to evict the protesters from the Capitol complex. By then, they had roamed the halls of Congress, posed for photos inside hallowed chambers, broken through doors, destroyed property and taken photos of themselves doing it. Only 13 were arrested at the time; scores were arrested later.In the aftermath, a 7-foot fence will go up around the Capitol grounds for at least 30 days. The Capitol Police will conduct a review of the carnage, as well as their planning and policies. Lawmakers plan to investigate how authorities handled the rioting.The acting US attorney in the District of Columbia, Michael Sherwin, said the failure to arrest more people is making their jobs harder.“Look, we have to now go through cell site orders, collect video footage to try to identify people and then charge them, and then try to execute their arrest. So that has made things challenging, but I can’t answer why those people weren’t zip-tied as they were leaving the building by the Capitol Police.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/capitol-police-rejected-offers-of-federal-help-to-quell-mob/story-1lXXs7THZKpqIE2izhoyjM.html
08-01-2021||World||Israel in deal with Pfizer to speed up vaccine deliveries for data||Israel agreed a deal with Pfizer Inc. to expedite deliveries of its Covid-19 vaccine so that all citizens over 16 can be inoculated by the end of March, in return for extensive data on the inoculation program.More 1.7 million Israelis, or about 18% of its population, have already received their first dose of the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine, a larger proportion than in any other country. Officials had warned that pace would slow with new vaccine supplies not expected before February.But late Thursday, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said in a statement the next Pfizer shipment was now expected on Sunday, and that deliveries would be increased. The deal came after 17 conversations with Pfizer chief executive Albert Bourla, he said, adding Israel would serve as a “global model state” and share data with the company and other countries to “develop strategies” to end the outbreak.Israel credits its universal health coverage, centralized system and extensive digitized records for enabling the fast distribution and analysis of the vaccine effort.The country was also due to get its first shipment of doses from Moderna Inc. on Thursday.While the vaccine effort is progressing rapidly, officials are contending with a surge in coronavirus cases that has led to a tightened lockdown starting Friday. Restrictions put in place from late December failed to tame the virus. Schools and non-essential businesses will now be closed.Netanyahu, whose corruption trial will soon move into a higher gear, is hoping the vaccine program will enable him to reopen Israel’s economy in time to get a boost ahead of the country’s fourth election in two years on March 23.Bank of Israel researchers said this week that a rapid vaccination effort could lead to output expanding 6.3% this year and 5.8% in 2022.So far, only Israelis over 60 or with chronic conditions have been eligible for a shot -- and about 75% of vaccines have gone to that group so far, Health Minister Yuli Edelstein told Bloomberg TV.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/israel-in-deal-with-pfizer-to-speed-up-vaccine-deliveries-for-data/story-Z7nqgk52PaULw4yxM2fPnO.html
08-01-2021||World||US Capitol hill storming: Police officer’s death intensifies siege questions||A police officer has died from injuries sustained as President Donald Trump’s supporters stormed the Capitol, a violent siege that is forcing hard questions about the defeated president’s remaining days in office and the ability of the Capitol Police to secure the area.The US Capitol Police said in a statement that Officer Brian D. Sicknick was injured “while physically engaging with protesters” during the Wednesday riot. He is the fifth person to die because of the melee.The rampage that has shocked the world and left the country on edge forced the resignations of three top Capitol security officials over the failure to stop the breach. It led lawmakers to demand a review of operations and an FBI briefing over what they called a “terrorist attack.” And it is prompting a broader reckoning over Trump’s tenure in office and what comes next for a torn nation.Protesters were urged by Trump during a rally near the White House earlier Wednesday to head to Capitol Hill, where lawmakers were scheduled to confirm Biden’s presidential victory. The mob swiftly broke through police barriers, smashed windows and paraded through the halls, sending lawmakers into hiding.Five have died because of the Capitol siege. One protester, a white woman, was shot to death by Capitol Police, and there were dozens of arrests. Three other people died after “medical emergencies” related to the breach.Despite Trump’s repeated claims of voter fraud, election officials and his own former attorney general have said there were no problems on a scale that would change the outcome. All the states have certified their results as fair and accurate, by Republican and Democratic officials alike.Sen. Ben Sasse, R-Neb., said news of the police officer’s death was “gut-wrenching.”“None of this should have happened,” Sasse said in a statement. “Lord, have mercy.”Sicknick had returned to his division office after the incident and collapsed, the statement said. He was taken to a local hospital where he died on Thursday.Two House Democrats on committees overseeing the Capitol police budgets said those responsible need to be held to answer for the “senseless” death.“We must ensure that the mob who attacked the People’s House and those who instigated them are held fully accountable,” said Rep. Rosa DeLauro, D-Ct., and Rep. Tim Ryan, D-Ohio. in a statement.Earlier Thursday, House Speaker Nancy Pelosi said any remaining day with the president in power could be “a horror show for America.” Likewise, Senate Democratic leader Chuck Schumer said the attack on the Capitol was “an insurrection against the United States, incited by the president,” and Trump must not stay in office “one day” longer.Pelosi and Schumer called for invoking the 25th Amendment to the Constitution to force Trump from office before President-elect Joe Biden is inaugurated on Jan. 20. Schumer said he and Pelosi tried to call Vice President Mike Pence early Thursday to discuss that option but were unable to connect with him.At least one Republican lawmaker joined the effort. The procedure allows for the vice president and a majority of the Cabinet to declare the president unfit for office. The vice president then becomes acting president.Pelosi said if the president’s Cabinet does not swiftly act, the House may proceed to impeach Trump.Trump, who had repeatedly refused to concede the election, did so in a late Thursday video from the White House vowing a “seamless transition of power.”Two Republicans who led efforts to challenge the election results, Ted Cruz of Texas and Josh Hawley of Missouri, faced angry peers in the Senate. Cruz defended his objection to the election results as “the right thing to do” as he tried unsuccessfully to have Congress launch an investigation.nIn the House, Republican leaders Rep. Kevin McCarthy of California and Rep. Steve Scalise of Louisiana joined in the failed effort to overturn Biden’s win by objecting to the Electoral College results.With tensions high, the Capitol shuttered and lawmakers not scheduled to return until the inauguration, an uneasy feeling of stalemate settled over a main seat of national power as Trump remained holed up at the White House.The social media giant Facebook banned the president from its platform and Instagram for the duration of Trump’s final days in office, if not indefinitely, citing his intent to stoke unrest. Twitter had silenced him the day before.Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg said “the shocking events” make it clear Trump “intends to use his remaining time in office to undermine the peaceful and lawful transition of power.”U.S. Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund, under pressure from Schumer, Pelosi and other congressional leaders, was forced to resign. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell asked for and received the resignation of the Sergeant at Arms of the Senate, Michael Stenger, effective immediately. Paul Irving, the longtime Sergeant at Arms of the House, also resigned.Sund had defended his department’s response to the storming of the Capitol, saying officers had “acted valiantly when faced with thousands of individuals involved in violent riotous actions.”Washington Mayor Muriel Bowser called the police response “a failure.”Lawmakers from both parties pledged to investigate and questioned whether a lack of preparedness allowed a mob to occupy and vandalize the building. The Pentagon and Justice Department had been rebuffed when they offered assistance.Black lawmakers, in particular, noted the way the mostly white Trump supporters were treated.Newly elected Rep. Cori Bush, D-Mo., said if “we, as Black people did the same things that happened ... the reaction would have been different, we would have been laid out on the ground.”The protesters ransacked the place, taking over the House area and Senate chamber and waving Trump, American and Confederate flags. Outside, they scaled the walls and balconies.Rep. Val Demings, D-Fla., a former police chief, said it was “painfully obvious” that Capitol police “were not prepared.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-capitol-hill-storming-police-officer-s-death-intensifies-siege-questions/story-gXEXCyEZBf4GlZuLt36kxI.html
08-01-2021||World||Migrant workers in Thailand suffer as coronavirus cases surge||Migrant workers in Thailand are struggling to find work and survive after coronavirus cases in the Southeast Asian nation reached record highs and employers imposed new restrictions, human rights groups said on Friday.In Samut Sakhon, a province south of Bangkok where the current outbreak began at a seafood market late last year, local charities say many migrant workers - especially those in the seafood and service sectors - are unable to work or access government aid.“We are concerned about what will happen if (the outbreak) cannot be controlled,” said Papop Siamhan, director of the Human Rights and Development Foundation, which provides free legal aid to migrant workers.Thailand is dealing with its worst coronavirus outbreak, with more than 200 new infections each day, raising the total so far to 9,841 cases, including 67 deaths.Many people have blamed migrant workers from Myanmar - a major source of labour in the seafood industry in Samut Sakhon.The province has about 260,000 registered migrant workers, according to government data, but activists estimate the number could be more than 400,000, including undocumented workers.Three migrant worker charities in Samut Sakhon said they had received complaints from workers who had been asked to obtain medical certificates showing negative Covid-19 test results in order to return to their jobs.The Thai government has ensured that anyone with Covid-19 symptoms, who has visited known hotspots, or who is suspected to have been infected, can access free coronavirus testing and treatment.But some migrant workers were deemed low risk and denied tests at government hospitals, and could not afford to get tested at private hospitals that can charge more than 4,000 baht ($133), migrant worker advocates said.Pakpoom Sawangkhum, president of the Proud Association, which helps vulnerable communities in Samut Sakhon, said some migrants are reluctant to get tested because of their illegal status, and those who tested positive refused treatment in an effort to remain in jobs.The UN International Organization for Migration (IOM) said all employers should meet their legal obligation to uphold equal treatment for all employees.“A migrant worker on minimum wage in Samut Sakhon contributing 100% of their salary for testing would have to work for an estimated nine days to cover the costs of a single Covid-19 test,” Geraldine Ansart, IOM’s chief of mission in Thailand, told the Thomson Reuters Foundation.“These prohibitive costs serve as a significant barrier to ensuring migrants are included in efforts to contain the Covid-19 pandemic,” she said.Suchat Pornchaiwiseskul, director-general of the Department of Employment, said he was unaware of any employers asking migrant workers to provide medical certificates in order to return to work, but would investigate.One migrant worker at a factory in Samut Sakhon, who asked to remain anonymous, said he had been asked to stop working without pay after being unable to afford a Covid-19 test and obtain a negative certificate to show his employer.“I can’t find a new job, I can’t travel and there are costs I need to pay for my family to survive,” he said by phone from Samut Sakhon, which has been under lockdown since last month.“Even if I’m not working, I should at least receive half of my wages. I want the same rights as other workers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/migrant-workers-in-thailand-suffer-as-coronavirus-cases-surge/story-bquE9KaLSzq57mhGFZP6hI.html
08-01-2021||World||Boris Johnson is embarrassed by Donald Trump||Some whirlwind romances you regret for many years. Isolated from its former European partners as Brexit approached, the UK looked for succor from the US. Two Conservative prime ministers in succession — Theresa May and Boris Johnson — tried to woo the White House in search of a revived Atlanticism and a fat trade deal. Did Johnson go too far in courting President Donald Trump?Johnson is often compared to Trump, especially in the liberal US media, which sees one blond political buffoon with a salty turn of phrase as being pretty much like another. And yet, the two men’s characters are very different. Britain’s prime minister is a hopeless optimist who dislikes giving friends, colleagues and voters any bad news, and who tends toward a Pollyannaish view that things will turn out alright. Trump’s vision of the world is unremittingly dark. He sees chaos, gloom and betrayal everywhere.Johnson can use populist language, but he does so to invigorate. Trump deploys it to agitate, and there is — as we saw this week — a vast difference.As the democratic world reacted with horror to Wednesday’s insurrection at the Capitol, Johnson tweeted “Disgraceful scenes in US Congress,” adding that “the United States stands for democracy around the world and it is now vital that there should be a peaceful and orderly transfer of power.” The tweet, however, neither named the president nor mentioned his role as chief insurgent. By Thursday’s close of play Johnson shed the coyness and condemned Trump directly for “encouraging people to storm the Capitol.” He said, “For him to cast doubt on a free and fair election, that’s completely wrong.”That leaves the awkward question of why, in the weeks since Joe Biden’s election, Johnson left it so long to use Britain’s status as valued US ally to say something consequential about Trump’s dangerous refusal to go quietly.Accusations of soft pedaling don’t just apply to the British, however. Western governments rarely like to intervene in the internal affairs of an ally, least of all in the domestic politics of a friendly superpower. President Emmanuel Macron of France and Germany’s Chancellor Angela Merkel were similarly circumspect as the mayhem in Washington unfolded on Wednesday night, although they at least addressed their remarks to camera. Merkel’s “angry and sad” comment left no doubt that she was personally invested.Johnson’s allies point out that he did hail Biden as the winner of the election within hours of the result, to Trump’s evident anger. Indeed, the divide between Europe’s “progressive” leaders and its more conservative ones on tackling Trump isn’t as clear as you’d think. Macron engineered a friendly three-day state visit for the president in 2018, an event that matched Trump’s audience with Queen Elizabeth II.The disgraceful manner of Trump’s exit shows that the UK and the EU’s “Big Two” of France and Germany should have been far braver in defending democracy. This applies to how they treat other world powers, too. If Merkel is so angry and sad about the scenes in Washington, what about her embrace of China in a lucrative EU investment deal that will do wonders for German industry, and her silence on China’s treatment of Hong Kong?Johnson isn’t really as close to Trump as his enemies suggest. The president cares little for Britain other than his celebrity’s delight at hobnobbing with royalty and his fondness for Scottish golf. The two men had an almighty row about the Chinese telecoms company Huawei, during which Trump slammed the phone down. But Johnson has traded on his relationship with Trump and was thrilled about their joint mission of making leftish liberals miserable.These ties carry a cost now. A host of embarrassing Johnson quotes is being dredged up, including this gem: “If Trump can fix North Korea and the Iran nuclear deal then I don’t see why he’s any less of a candidate for the Nobel Peace Prize than Barack Obama.” After Johnson’s own shabby treatment of Parliament — he prorogued (suspended) the House of Commons in 2019 to try to unblock Brexit legislation — was vetoed by the British Supreme Court, Trump endorsed “my friend” Boris. The difference is that Johnson did eventually restore the UK’s legislative assembly, while Trump clearly has no regard at all for America’s equivalent institutions. But western leaders need to be aware of how all attacks on democratic bodies tend to look the same.Kim Darroch, who resigned as Britain’s Washington ambassador in 2019 after Johnson had failed to back him in a row over leaked emails critical of the president, said on Thursday that No. 10 “had got a bit too close to the Trump presidency” and was “too warm about Trump’s performance.”Johnson didn’t secure anything concrete from this. The truth is that Trump has been a disappointment to the prime minister. The Conservative right thought the Brexit-loving president might deliver a precious US-UK free-trade agreement to help compensate for loss of access to the EU single market. But the negotiations, particularly over agriculture, were sticky and time ran out. The White House made clear the UK would have to fall into line on its China trade policy.As always, the “special relationship” tilts toward the dominant partner. Britain may end up with an Asia trade deal before we have the delights of eating American chlorinated chicken.Realists in Johnson’s party, who disliked the president’s disregard for allies and friendships with authoritarians, could at least see some merit in Trump’s go-it-alone foreign policy. The deals between Israel and the Gulf Arab states, and the willingness to take on China made a rough-and-ready sense. Even a few idealists were happy to make common cause with Washington over Beijing’s treatment of Taiwan, Hong Kong and the Uighurs.More uncomfortably, there is also a noisy minority of Tories who admire Trump for all the worst reasons, as Paul Goodman, editor of the grassroots ConservativeHome website, admits. He cites “anti-lockdown maniacs (including prominent journalists once close to Johnson), who now claim that Covid doesn’t exist, climate change obsessives who rail not at government policy but scientific fact and conspiracists who babble on about Davos.”While some fret about the influence of these zealots on Johnson’s policy making, he’s never been a natural bedfellow of the loony right. Quite the contrary, he has become an enthusiast for net-zero carbon emissions and has always supported relaxed immigration policy. He has always been an opportunist — his rise to the top depended on it — but on social and environmental policy his instincts are more progressive.One great sadness of what has happened this week is that Trump’s rejection of the democratic verdict and his incitement to violence are doing enormous damage to the West. Moscow, Beijing and Tehran are making hay.“No interference in internal affairs” is the pat diplomatic rejoinder of China and Russia whenever their human rights violations are raised by the West. Our leaders shouldn’t be echoing that line as a cynical excuse for sitting on their hands. Johnson and the others should make it clear they stand shoulder to shoulder with millions of good American democrats — whatever their party allegiance — in a time of trial.(This column does not necessarily reflect the opinion of the editorial board or Bloomberg LP and its owners.Martin Ivens was editor of the Sunday Times from 2013 to 2020 and was formerly its chief political commentator. He is a director of the Times Newspapers board.)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/boris-johnson-is-embarrassed-by-donald-trump/story-oRhW7TwGG5aGdtVkoHRlAP.html
08-01-2021||World||Pakistani PM Imran Khan asks Shiites to bury coal miners killed by IS||Pakistan’s prime minister Friday appealed the protesting minority Shiites not to link the burial of 11 coal miners from Hazara community who were killed by the Islamic State group to his visit to the mourners, saying such a demand amounted to blackmailing the country’s premier.Hundreds of mourners, who despite harsh cold weather have been rallying in Quetta at the miners’ coffins, want Prime Minister Imran Khan to personally visit them to assure their protection. They have vowed they were ready to continue their protest for 100 days if Khan does not accept their key demand.“No premier of any country should be blackmailed like this,” Khan said from Islamabad in televised remarks.Under Islamic tradition, burials take place as quickly as possible after death. But Shiites from Hazara community for the straight sixth day continued their sit-in, refusing to bury the miners who were killed on Sunday after being abducted near the Machh coal field, 48 kilometers (30 miles) east of Quetta, the capital of Baluchistan.Khan, speaking from Islamabad in televised remarks, said his government had accepted all of the demands of mourners, except that the dead would be buried when he personally visits them to assure their protection. He said he could travel to Quetta today to meet with the relatives of miners if they bury the miners first.Shiites rejected Khan’s offer, saying their protest will continue.More than 2,000 residents and relatives began their protest after IS militants abducted and then shot and killed the miners in Baluchistan province. Police video of the bodies revealed the miners were blindfolded and had their hands tied behind their backs before being shot.The Sunni IS affiliate claimed responsibility and since then authorities have been raiding militant hideouts to trace and arrest those who orchestrated the killing of miners, although Khan insist Pakistan’s neighbor India was behind the violence in Baluchistan. Khan has not shared any evidence to back up his claim.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pakistani-pm-imran-khan-asks-shiites-to-bury-coal-miners-killed-by-is/story-MDpiXHAzZLt6wi18XnrDsI.html
08-01-2021||World||2020 was Europe’s warmest year on record||2020 was the warmest year in Europe since records began, according to data published Friday by the EU climate monitoring service.Last year topped the previous temperature record in Europe — 2019 — by a whopping 0.4 degrees Celsius (0.72 Fahrenheit), the European Union’s Copernicus Climate Change Service said.It said 2020 was also tied with 2016 for the warmest year worldwide, confirming the past decade as the hottest on record.Rising global temperatures are tied to the increase in greenhouse gases in the atmosphere. Chief among them is carbon dioxide, which is released by the burning of fossil fuels such as coal, oil and gas.The data showed 2020 was 1.25 C (2.2 F) warmer than during the pre-industrial period from 1850-1900.Scientists say global warming should be capped at 1.5 C (2.7 F) to avert the worst effects of climate change.The Copernicus service noted that some of the highest temperature increases were observed in parts of the Arctic and Siberia, which also had an unusually active wildfire season in 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/2020-was-europe-s-warmest-year-on-record/story-k9EKwszjeMsJUYdINPEZVI.html
08-01-2021||World||Japan starts 1st day under emergency steps to curb coronavirus||Japan began its first day under a coronavirus state of emergency Friday with much of life going on as usual, including morning commuter trains shuttling crowds of mask-wearing people at bustling stations.Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga reiterated his request for restaurants to shorten business hours and for people to work from home.“We take this very seriously. By all means, I would like to overcome this difficult situation with the cooperation of the people,” Suga told reporters.The emergency runs through Feb. 7. The declaration is asking restaurants and bars to close by 8 p.m. while drinks won’t be served after 7 p.m.It applies to Tokyo and the three surrounding prefectures of Saitama, Chiba and Kanagawa.Nationwide, confirmed Covid-19 cases have reached some 260,000, with more than 7,500 new cases reported Friday.“Infection is the highest ever in every region of the nation,” said Suga.Suga has promised legal revisions, including allowing penalties and other measures to add more force to the requests. They will be studied in parliament later this month.The declaration is expected to have some sway in conformist Japan. Some companies have been resistant to working remotely and the emergency state may help workers assert their wishes to stay home.But much of life will stay the same, with schools, sports events, stores and movie theaters open, but with social distancing and mask-wearing measures. Crowds are expected to thin at night.The previous emergency, declared last April and May, although wider in scope and area, had some effect on curtailing the spread of Covid-19.The number of daily cases in Tokyo have been climbing, reaching a daily record 2,447 Thursday. The goal is to bring them down to 500, according to officials.Like many other Tokyo residents, Kazue Kuramitsu was already pessimistic about how long it might take for things to get back to normal.“From today, we’re basically in a battle for one month. But I don’t think the spread will stop,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/japan-starts-1st-day-under-emergency-steps-to-curb-coronavirus/story-9NhXYcLZd0SybFXY7fdnLM.html
08-01-2021||World||Twitch joins Facebook, Instagram on banning Trump; Twitter allows him back||Popular gaming platform Twitch has banned indefinitely Donald Trump’s official channel on its platform, following the storming of Capitol Hill by supporters of the outgoing US President.“In light of yesterday’s shocking attack on the Capitol, we have disabled President Trump’s Twitch channel,” the company said in a statement according to CNN.“Given the current extraordinary circumstances and the President’s incendiary rhetoric, we believe this is a necessary step to protect our community and prevent Twitch from being used to incite further violence,” the live-streaming platform said.The San Francisco-based company is the latest among social media and tech platforms that have launched a crackdown on Trump after the president’s supporters breached the Capitol Hill building bringing to a halt the congressional debate to certify Electoral College votes of Joe Biden and Kamala Harris’ win in the November 3 presidential elections. The chaos forced a lockdown and confrontations with police. Several police officers sustained injuries, while one woman was confirmed dead after being shot in the chest.Before the violence, President Trump had falsely told supporters in Washington that the election had been stolen.Facebook on Thursday suspended US President Donald Trump’s Facebook and Instagram accounts indefinitely, while Twitter had on Wednesday said Trump’s account will be blocked unless he deletes three tweets.Mark Zuckerberg, CEO, Facebook, in a post on the social networking website wrote that the account blocks have been placed indefinitely and “for at least two weeks until the peaceful transfer of power is complete.”He pointed out that the risks of allowing the President to continue to use the service during this period are “simply too great.” “We are extending the block we have placed on his Facebook and Instagram accounts indefinitely and for at least the next two weeks until the peaceful transition of power is complete, he wrote. Twitter said Trump’s account will be locked until he deletes three tweets which the company said were. “severe violations of our Civic Integrity policy”. The company later confirmed that his account has been restored after he removed the tweets.It however said that “Any future violations of the Twitter Rules, including our Civic Integrity or Violent Threats policies, will result in permanent suspension of the @realDonaldTrump account.”Trump returned to Twitter with ‘election fraud’ rhetoric”.“My campaign vigorously pursued every legal avenue to contest the legal result. My only goal was to ensure the integrity of the vote; I was fighting to defend American democracy. I continue to believe that we must defend our election laws to verify the identity and eligibility of all voters and to ensure faith and confidence in all future elections,” posted Trump on a Twitter video.Conceding his defeat for the first time, he said, “Now Congress has certified election results, a new administration will be inaugurated on January 20. My focus is now turning to ensure a smooth, orderly, and seamless transition of power. This moment calls for healing and reconciliation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/twitch-joins-facebook-instagram-on-banning-trump-twitter-allows-him-back/story-R1INJyAVNev8UtHVWyqHDP.html
08-01-2021||World||Indonesia frees radical cleric linked to Bali bombings that killed 202||Indonesian Islamic cleric Abu Bakar Bashir, the suspected mastermind of the 2002 Bali bombings that killed 202 people, walked free from prison on Friday after serving 10 years for setting up a militant training camp.Authorities said Bashir, 82, who was never convicted of a direct role in the bombings, would enter a deradicalisation programme amid concerns over his continued influence in extremist circles.Photographs showed him dressed in white and wearing a mask as he left the prison in Bogor, south of the capital Jakarta, before being driven to his home at an Islamic boarding school near the city of Solo in Central Java. “Abu Bakar Bashir was released from Gunung Sindur prison at 5.30 a.m.,” Rika Aprianti, a spokeswoman for the corrections department, told reporters.Bashir, 82, who is regarded as the spiritual leader of Jemaah Islamiah (JI), a jihadist network with ties to al Qaeda, was imprisoned in 2011 for 15 years for his links to a militant training camp in Aceh province.After periodic cuts in his jail term, he served 10 years. Although Indonesian police and intelligence agencies say Bashir was linked to the 2002 Bali attacks and a 2003 attack on the J.W. Marriott hotel in Jakarta, he was never convicted of direct involvement and denied any ties.A conviction for being part of a conspiracy to carry out the Bali bombings was later overturned. The Bali bombings killed 88 Australians, and the country has pressed Indonesia to ensure Bashir does not incite more violence.On Friday, Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison said Bashir’s release was “very distressing to the friends and families of the Australians, the 88 Australians, who were killed in the Bali bombings”.Thiolina Marpaung, an Indonesian wounded in the 2002 attacks, said she wanted authorities to keep supervising Bashir.“We don’t know what he was doing in prison,” she said by telephone. Bashir pledged allegiance to the militant group Islamic State in 2014 while in jail.A spokesman for the Coogee Dolphins rugby club in Sydney, which lost its president and five members in the Bali attacks, said Bashir’s release would be difficult. “Some will never forgive, there will be others who will be just angry today,” said Albert Talarico. “Others will stay silent because they don’t wish to have the old wounds opened again.”DERADICALISATION PROGRAMMESome Indonesians defended the release of the cleric, saying he had served his time and was a practising Muslim. “There are many people who discredit Muslims, thinking that we are related to terrorism, but...we are not,” said Asqar Kustiwa, 63, a resident of Depok, near Jakarta.Bashir will undergo a deradicalisation programme, Eddy Hartono of Indonesia’s anti-terrorism agency said in a statement, adding that he hoped the cleric, after his release, “can give peaceful, soothing preachings”.In the wake of the Bali attacks, Indonesia set up an elite anti-terrorist unit that weakened JI and resulted in scores of suspected militants being arrested or killed.But other extremist groups have since formed and conducted attacks in the world’s biggest Muslim majority country while only last month police arrested 23 militants.Ahead of the release, Abdul Rohim, Bashir’s son, told Reuters his father would return to the Al Mukmin Islamic boarding school, which Bashir founded in the 1970s and whose graduates have been linked to militant networks and attacks.“He has completed his term,” Rohim said. “This is purely over.”JI’s prominence is fading, say analysts, to be replaced by other Islamic State-inspired groups blamed for new attacks.They say Bashir does not wield as much power over JI or other groups, but could still influence other militants.“Bashir is an ideologue, his words will be followed and made examples of,” said analyst Stanislaus Riyanta.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/indonesia-frees-radical-cleric-linked-to-bali-bombings-that-killed-202/story-EdoUERp2T8yKuHM6yrtMLP.html
08-01-2021||World||YouTube removes several videos posted on Trump’s channel||YouTube has removed several videos that US President Donald Trump has posted on his channel and warned that any channel found to be posting three times within 90 days with false claims on US election results will be permanently removed from the Google-owned video platform.The move comes in the wake of the unprecedented storming of the US Capitol by Trump’s supporters on Wednesday and thus disrupting the constitutional process of counting and certification of the Electoral College votes of the presidential elections. Four people, including a woman, died in the clashes between protesters and police.“Over the last month, we’ve removed thousands of videos which spread misinformation claiming widespread voter fraud changed the result of the 2020 election, including several videos that President Trump posted on Wednesday to his channel,” Google said in a statement.“Due to the disturbing events that transpired on Wednesday, and given that the election results have been certified, any channel posting new videos with these false claims in violation of our policies will now receive a strike, a penalty which temporarily restricts uploading or live-streaming,” it said.“Channels that receive three strikes in the same 90-day period will be permanently removed from YouTube,” Google said in its statement.Trump’s YouTube channel has 2.68 million subscribers. Following the violence that erupted at the US Capitol after his supporters stormed the building, YouTube has removed most of his videos from the rally he addressed earlier in the day.YouTube believes that those videos alleging widespread fraud in the 2020 elections violated its policies.YouTube said that grace period was supposed to expire on January 21, after Inauguration Day. But since the election results have been certified, after a pro-Trump mob stormed the Capitol, the Google -owned video platform says it’s ending the grace period now.Earlier, Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg said that President Donald Trump’s accounts on its popular social media platforms - Facebook and Instagram - would remain suspended until the inauguration of President-elect Joe Biden on January 20.Announcing the decision, Zuckerberg said the risk of allowing President Trump to continue to use the platform during this period is “simply too great.” This is for the first time probably that Facebook has taken such an extreme step to ban and block the social media handles of a head of the State and that too of the United States.On Wednesday, Twitter also blocked Trump’s account for 12 hours and removed three of his tweets including a video.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/youtube-removes-several-videos-posted-on-trump-s-channel/story-hjlUW2xU4WMP5snaShyeaJ.html
08-01-2021||World||UK to use arthritis drug for severely ill coronavirus patients||The UK will start using a Roche Holding AG arthritis drug to treat critically ill Covid-19 patients after a study showed that it reduced mortality and shortened recovery times in intensive care.Some 27% of critically ill patients who got the Roche arthritis drug Actemra or a similar treatment from Sanofi and Regeneron Pharmaceuticals Inc. died in the hospital, compared with about 36% of those who didn’t get them, an Imperial College London research team said. Those treated with the medicines were able to be released from the hospital an average of a week earlier, the study found.The findings could have “immediate implications for the sickest patients with Covid-19,” Anthony Gordon, chair in anesthesia and critical care at Imperial, said in a statement. Released in a preprint on Thursday, the results have not yet been peer-reviewed.The study also raised hopes in the UK, which helped fund the research, that using the arthritis medicines will ease the strain as a surge of virus cases swamps its health system. The government will encourage the use of Actemra across the country immediately and is working with Roche to ensure the medicine is available to UK patients, the Department of Health and Social Care said in a statement.Though drug companies have tested a range of existing treatments against Covid-19, few have proven helpful. The biggest success so far has been dexamethasone, a steroid that has been shown to reduce the risk of death by one-third for patients on ventilators.‘Bit of Optimism’Thursday’s results “injected that bit of optimism we all need” to keep trying with arthritis medicines as well, Martin Landray, a professor of medicine and epidemiology at the University of Oxford, said in a statement.Landray helps lead another large study, called Recovery, that helped pinpoint the benefit of dexamethasone and is looking at Actemra as well. Still to be answered are questions of how well the drug works in different types of patients and whether, if given earlier, it might reduce the need for ventilators in the first place, Landray said.Roche will also continue its own studies on Actemra in Covid-19, the Swiss drugmaker said in a statement.In previous studies, Actemra had reduced the need for patients to be ventilated and appeared to help them leave hospitals earlier. Yet, puzzlingly, the drug hadn’t appeared to help reduce deaths. The earlier studies enrolled people who were less sick, Gordon said. “A crucial difference may be that in our study, critically ill patients were enrolled within 24 hours of starting organ support,” he said.After a trial with the other drug, Kevzara, failed in September, Sanofi and Regeneron had said they wouldn’t pursue the treatment further for use in Covid-19.Called REMAP-CAP, the trial reported Thursday assigned patients randomly to a range of potential Covid-19 treatments. It has enrolled more than 3,900 patients, most of them in the UK, though only a portion of those people got the arthritis treatments. Actemra was given to 350 patients, while 45 patients got Kevzara.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-to-use-arthritis-drug-for-severely-ill-coronavirus-patients/story-fqxA8hjediSmEcVLKQAbCP.html
08-01-2021||World||UN human rights official asks Trump to renounce false, dangerous narratives||The attack on the US Capitol clearly demonstrated the destructive impact of sustained distortion of facts, incitement to violence and hatred by political leaders, the UN’s top human rights official has said while calling on American President Donald Trump to disavow “false and dangerous” narratives.Thousands of Trump supporters stormed the Capitol building on Wednesday and clashed with police, resulting in four deaths and interrupting a constitutional process by Congress to affirm the victory of President-elect Joe Biden and Vice President-elect Kamala Harris in the November 3 election.“We are deeply troubled by Wednesday’s attack on the US Capitol, which demonstrated clearly the destructive impact of sustained, deliberate distortion of facts, and incitement to violence and hatred by political leaders,” UN High Commissioner for Human Rights Michelle Bachelet said on Thursday.Noting that the allegations of electoral fraud were invoked to try to undermine the right to political participation, Bachelet said she was encouraged to see that the process has continued in spite of serious attempts to disrupt it.“We call on leaders from across the political spectrum, including the President of the United States, to disavow false and dangerous narratives, and encourage their supporters to do so as well,” she said.Bachelet expressed dismay at the serious threats and destruction of property of media professionals yesterday and voiced support for calls from many quarters for a thorough investigation into the violence and attack on the seat of the American democracy.Top United Nations leadership had expressed sadness and concern over the violence in Washington DC by pro-Trump demonstrators who stormed the US Capitol as lawmakers gathered to certify the Presidential election results.“The Secretary-General is saddened by the events at the US Capitol in Washington, DC,” on Wednesday, Stephane Dujarric, Spokesman for the Secretary-General, said in a note to correspondents.“In such circumstances, it is important that political leaders impress on their followers the need to refrain from violence, as well as to respect democratic processes and the rule of law,” the UN chief said.President of the 75th session of the United Nations General Assembly Volkan Bozkir had tweeted that as President of the 193-member UN body, “I’m saddened & concerned by today’s developments at the Capitol in Washington DC. The US is one of the world’s major democracies. I believe that peace & respect for democratic processes will prevail in our host country at this critical time.” Dujarric, responding to questions Thursday on the attack on the Capitol, said Guterres calls on political leaders to impress on their followers the need to refrain from violence and respect the democratic process and rule of law.“It’s a very important message that political leaders need to give to those who listen to them,” he said.He added that the UN had spoken out about risks associated with social media platforms being used to propagate violence and hate speech.“I think it just increases the responsibility of the people who manage those platforms to ensure that they are not misused to do physical harm to people,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/un-human-rights-official-asks-trump-to-renounce-false-dangerous-narratives/story-DgJ1RZHX6Nvsn6vHF3LlZJ.html
08-01-2021||World||China using proxies to intimidate people across world, says Canadian minister||A Canadian minister has denounced China for “intimidation” of people around the world through Beijing’s state entities or proxies in order to silence dissent, pressure political opponents and instil general fear of state power.In a letter to lawmakers, Bill Blair, Minister of Public Safety responsible for the country’s internal security, said that “foreign states, including the PRC (Peoples Republic of China), attempt to threaten and intimidate individuals around the world, including in Canada, through various state entities and non-state proxies.”That letter was sent in response to a motion moved by the Opposition calling for the government to outline its plans for participation of the Chinese telecommunications company Huawei in Canada’s 5G infrastructure and to table a plan to counter foreign interference.In the letter, as cited by the outlet National Observer, Blair added that the government is “aware that these tactics can also be used as cover for silencing dissent, including on university campuses, pressuring political opponents and instilling general fear of state power, no matter where a person is located.” He mentioned China’s Operation Fox Hunt as “one such example.”Operation Fox Hunt was launched under the direction of Chinese President Xi Jinping in 2014 through the Ministry of Public Security to “target Chinese nationals who he sees as threats and who live outside China, around the world,” according to Christopher Wray, director of US Federal Bureau of Investigation.Citing Blair’s letter, the outlet Global News said the government was “’particularly concerned’ about giving foreign adversaries control over and access to sensitive technologies, critical infrastructure and the personal data of Canadians.”Blair also noted that the Canadian Security Intelligence Service, Royal Canadian Mounted Police, Communications Security Establishment, and Canada Border Services Agency, were engaged in combating such foreign interference.Such interference, the minister said, had worsened after the onset of the Covid-19 pandemic as government agencies had “observed state-sponsored information manipulation” with such “campaigns” aimed at sowing “doubt about the origins of the Covid-19 virus and the means required to counter it; discredit responses to Covid-19 while casting their own as superior.”The motion is expected to come up for discussion in the House of Commons once it reconvenes later this month.Earlier, according to a report in the daily Global & Mail, in the strongest public denunciation of China’s bullying of the community in Canada, a spokesperson for the Canadian Security Intelligence Service had said that the “fear of state-backed or state-linked retribution targeting both them and their loved ones, in Canada and abroad, can force individuals to submit to foreign interference”. Together, Canada’s spy agency felt, such activities “constitute a threat to Canada’s sovereignty and to the safety of Canadians.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-using-proxies-to-intimidate-people-across-world-says-canadian-minister/story-1TIk247P39AK7RbTJ2NafI.html
08-01-2021||World||Pandemic leaves many nations facing climate action catch-up in 2021||Less than half of countries that committed to strengthening their climate action targets in 2020 did so by the end of last year, as the pandemic slowed climate diplomacy and efforts to update national plans, a developing-nation group said on Friday.A tracker run by the Climate Vulnerable Forum (CVF) showed 73 nations submitted revised climate plans to the United Nations, meeting a 2020 deadline under the Paris Agreement to tackle global warming.That was about 45% of the 160 nations that had earlier said they intended to submit plans - called nationally determined contributions - last year.Of those that filed updated plans, 69 made more ambitious climate commitments, either to step up efforts to cut planet-heating emissions, adapt to more extreme weather and rising seas, or both.They included Britain, European Union nations, many Latin American governments and some small island states, as well as a handful of African and Southeast Asian countries.The 48-member CVF said Brazil, North Korea, Japan and New Zealand had submitted updated climate action plans, but these lacked a higher level of ambition.Saleemul Huq, a Bangladeshi academic who chairs the CVF’s expert advisory group, said the low number of 2020 submissions showed the 2015 Paris accord - which stipulates national plans should be strengthened every five years - had “failed its first and most important test”.He urged governments to show “real climate ambition that communities will benefit from” in 2021 as their economies start to recover from the Covid-19 crisis.The 57 countries that in 2020 submitted stronger targets to cut their climate-changing emissions accounted for just 13% of global emissions, the CVF said.The 66 countries that committed to do more to adapt to a warmer planet, meanwhile, are home to 1.67 billion people, just over a fifth of the global population of 7.8 billion, it said.“I think we have seen the process get started, but then there is a huge amount to be done this year,” said David Waskow, director of the international climate initiative at the World Resources Institute.Before the global upheaval caused by the coronavirus crisis, 190 countries that submitted climate action plans under the Paris accord were due to revise those contributions in 2020, to ensure they added up to meeting the goals of the agreement.Those include keeping global warming to “well below” 2 degrees Celsius and ideally to 1.5C above pre-industrial times.But the world has already heated up by just over 1C and is on track for at least 3C of warming this century, the United Nations has said - a clear sign more ambition is needed.Lockdowns due to the pandemic forced the British hosts of the 2020 annual UN climate summit, known as COP26, to postpone it. The talks are now set to take place in November 2021.The delay, combined with uncertainty over US climate action, after President Donald Trump pulled his country out of the Paris deal, has caused some countries, including China and other big emitters, to hold back on finalising their own plans.Britain and countries in the European Union, however, did in December commit to stronger emissions reductions targets for 2030, Waskow noted.Britain said it would cut its emissions by at least 68% by 2030, compared to 1990 levels, while EU states agreed to reduce their net greenhouse gas emissions by at least 55% from 1990 levels by 2030, substantially toughening an existing 40% target.“They have raised the bar and shown what it is that major economies - and especially developed countries ... need to do,” Waskow told the Thomson Reuters Foundation.U.S. President-elect Joe Biden takes office later this month and has vowed to swiftly rejoin the Paris accord and convene leaders of major emitting countries during his first 100 days in office, to push for more ambitious climate pledges.POOREST STEP UPAnna Schulz, head of the global climate law, policy and governance programme at the London-based International Institute for Environment and Development, noted eight out of the world’s 46 poorest countries submitted stronger climate plans by 2020.A further 11 are expected to do so soon, despite technical and financial barriers worsened by the pandemic, she said.The plans completed so far, by Cambodia, Ethiopia, Senegal, Rwanda, Nepal and other countries, contain “really exciting increases” in planned emissions cuts, either overall or by including new economic sectors and activities, she added.“This is, of course, despite the fact that they are the most vulnerable to climate change and the least responsible” for it, she said, noting the least-developed countries want to lead by example and do their part to meet the 1.5C warming goal.They are also raising their game on adaptation, she noted, with Nepal, for example, helping local governments come up with tailored plans for their regions.Zambia outlined measures to protect its six watersheds, make better use of its water and promote climate-smart farming to boost food security.Bangladesh, meanwhile, cited its “Delta Plan 2100”, which aims to tackle flood and drought risks in hotspots along its major rivers and coastlines.Adaptation action includes everything from building higher embankments against floods to moving coastal communities to safer locations, capturing rainwater to irrigate land and switching to more drought-tolerant crops.Patrick Verkooijen, CEO of the Netherlands-based Global Center on Adaptation, said the fact that more countries had so far improved targets to build climate resilience than set goals for deeper emissions cuts showed “governments are more serious about adaptation than ever before”.“The climate emergency has clearly arrived,” he said.His organisation is convening a virtual global summit on adaptation on January 25-26, to galvanise high-level political will - and funding - to expand efforts to help people adjust to worsening floods, droughts and storms, and rising sea levels.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pandemic-leaves-many-nations-facing-climate-action-catch-up-in-2021/story-Twtl9lkYzcOk3t1Z1SHsMN.html
08-01-2021||World||‘How strange’, says Elon Musk as he becomes world’s richest person||Tech billionaire Elon Musk, who on Thursday became the richest person in the world, gave a “strange” reaction after achieving the milestone. Taking on Twitter, the outspoken entrepreneur behind Tesla Inc. and SpaceX gave a very underwhelming response.“How strange,” Musk wrote on in response to a tweet by Tesla Owners of Silicon Valley. In the following tweet, he wrote, “Well, back to work.”Musk is known for his witty, sometimes controversial tweets which has often made the headlines. In May this year, Tesla lost $14 million in valuation hours Musk tweeted, “Tesla stock price is too high imo”.In 2018, Musk tweeted that he was thinking about taking the company private. The shares of the Tesla soared by more than six per cent while the tweet cost him his role as chairman.As per Bloomberg report, the South Africa-born engineer’s net worth was $188.5 billion at 10:15 am in New York, $1.5 billion more than Bezos, who has held the top spot since October 2017.Along with Tesla, Musk also owns SpaceX which is a rival to Bezos-owned Blue Origin LLC, in the private space race.Over the past year his net worth soared by more than $150 billion in possibly the fastest bout of wealth creation in history.Fueling his rise was an unprecedented rally in Tesla’s share price, which surged 743% last year on the back of consistent profits, inclusion in the S&P 500 Index and enthusiasm from Wall Street and retail investors alike.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/how-strange-says-elon-musk-as-he-becomes-world-s-richest-person/story-p3zj6ZJ5pNpr6oBSvUo5PJ.html
08-01-2021||World||Indian-American groups condemn attack on US Capitol||Indian-American groups have strongly condemned the storming of the Capitol Hill by President Donald Trump’s supporters, describing the incident as an assault on the US democracy.“The violent attack on the United States Capitol was disgusting. This act of sedition, stoked by Donald Trump, is a threat to our country and to every American’s rights and wellbeing. It must not be tolerated,” said Ajay Bhutoria, national finance committee member of Biden 2020, and one of the vice chairs of the Presidential Inauguration Committee.He asserted that the scenes of chaos at the Capitol do not reflect the true America.“The United States of America built the most powerful economy in the world in no small part due to the stability of our government and the peaceful transfer of power we have enjoyed for generations,” he said.Sikh American Legal Defence and Education Fund (SALDEF) in a statement condemned in the strongest terms the assault on the Capitol by “extremists” in a misguided attempt to overturn the certification of the 2020 presidential election results.“Violence has no place in democratic protest. Disinformation intended to sow distrust in our democratic processes has no place in a democracy. We strongly denounce those who encouraged and enabled this violence,” SALDEF executive director Kiran Kaur Gill said.The Hindu American Foundation (HAF) also condemned the violence, chaos, and anarchy that unfolded at the US Capitol building on Wednesday.It was a sad day for America and for democracy at large, it said in a statement. “Hindu Americans are uniquely attune to the foundations of and threats to democracy, as many of us trace our heritage to the Republic of India, the world’s largest democracy. Hindu values and ideals are American values and ideals and the bonds between our people, our commitment to freedom, equality, and representative democracy remain unshaken,” the HAF said.The Alliance to Save and Protect America from Infiltration by Religious Extremists and Coalition of Americans for Pluralism in India condemned the presence of Indian tricolour by rioting mobs at the Capitol Hill.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/indian-american-groups-condemn-attack-on-us-capitol/story-pf1gDQrQpwBCwIlW2PE70L.html
08-01-2021||World||‘Please take it,’ Singapore PM says after getting Covid-19 vaccine||Singapore Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong received his first shot of a Covid-19 vaccine on Friday, and urged others to take the jabs in a country that has largely brought the pandemic under control. Unlike other mass vaccination programmes in the United States and Britain, Singapore is administering the jabs having largely eradicated the disease and has reported only a handful of local cases in recent months.The government has said its studies show nearly 60% of residents are willing to be vaccinated. But the plans have stirred rare hesitancy among some due to the low risk of infection in the island nation and concern about any possible side effects from rapidly developed vaccines.“It will make us safer, and it will make you and your loved ones safer too, so please take it when you can,” Lee, 68, said after receiving the jab at a local hospital.Singapore has only approved Pfizer-BioNTech’s vaccine but has said it has secured enough doses for its 5.7 million population including from other vaccine-makers like Moderna and Sinovac. The city-state did some initial vaccinations of frontline workers at the end of December. But Lee said broader vaccinations of healthcare staff would start on Friday, with the elderly to follow next month, and vaccines to be available to all residents by year end at the latest. “We got vaccinated early to show Singaporeans we are confident that the vaccine is safe and effective,” Lee said in a Facebook post, adding that he had been vaccinated alongside the country’s top health official, Kenneth Mak, and “felt fine”. The vaccinations are voluntary but authorities have said they will consider relaxing travel restrictions for people who have been vaccinated against the disease which has killed around 1.9 million people globally.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/please-take-it-singapore-pm-says-after-getting-covid-19-vaccine/story-WcJRbwDbgYCMhzGXJl7WsO.html
08-01-2021||World||Michelle Obama breaks silence on US Capitol violence, calls Trump ‘infantile and unpatriotic’||Former first lady Michelle Obama on Thursday voiced her outrage against Wednesday’s violence in Washington, DC when thousands of protesters supporting President Donald Trump laid siege to the US Capitol as the process to validate Joe Biden’s victory was on. The protesters were demanding that presidential election result be overturned.In a statement posted on Twitter, Michelle described Trump as “infantile and unpatriotic” as she said, “the day was a fulfillment of the wishes” of a President “who can’t handle the truth of his own failures. “She also suggested that the protesters would have been treated differently had they been Black. “This summer’s Black Lives Matter protests were an overwhelmingly peaceful movement... And yet, in city after city, day after day, we saw peaceful protesters met with brute force.” In contrast, those who “desecrated the center of American government” this week “were led out of the building, not in handcuffs, but free to carry on with their days,” she said.Also Read | US Congress certifies Joe Biden’s win: The who’s who of president-elect’s cabinet“Yesterday made it painfully clear that certain Americans are, in fact, allowed to denigrate the flag and symbols of our nation. They’ve just got to look the right way,” she also said.Further noting that true progress can only be possible once “we acknowledge that this disconnect exists and take steps to repair it,” she wrote, “That also means coming to grips with the reality that millions voted for a man so obviously willing to burn our democracy down for his own ego.”Michelle also called on Silicon Valley which is home to many startups and global technology giants like Apple, Facebook and Google, to address its role and ban Trump from its platform for fuelling insurrection.“Now is the time for Silicon Valley companies to stop enabling this monstrous behavior - and go even further than they have already by permanently banning this man from their platforms and putting in place policies to prevent their technology from being used by the nation’s leaders to fuel insurrection, “ she said.On Wednesday thousands of protesters - spurred on by a speech given by President Donald Trump - marched to the seat of the US legislature, where some broke down barriers and doors to invade the building in an unprecedented act that played out on live television. But police officers in charge of security held off using tear gas until intruders had reached the heart of the building, where they roamed freely, ransacking offices.The scene stood in stark contrast to last year’s anti-racism protests in the nation’s capital and beyond, which saw demonstrators forcibly dispersed by police, and the National Guard regularly deployed as an early preventive measure. During the Wednesday’s protests, National Guard reinforcements did not arrive until several hours into the chaos despite public knowledge of the protests.Following this, many Americans have accused authorities overseeing Wednesday’s underwhelming response of “double standards.”(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/michelle-obama-breaks-silence-on-us-capitol-violence-calls-trump-infantile-and-unpatriotic/story-rwvzwQeWUXoERHV7NBPkKJ.html
08-01-2021||World||US Congress certifies Joe Biden’s win: The who’s who of president-elect’s cabinet||The United States Congress, in the early hours of January 7, officially announced Joe Biden and Kamala Harris as the next US president and vice president respectively. The confirmation means January 19 will be president Donald Trump’s final day in the White House, with the Biden-Harris duo set to be sworn-in the next day.Since he was announced as the president-elect by the US media in November, Biden has announced his nominees for several key portfolios. Except for the vice president, who is elected alongside the president, the cabinet nominees are appointed only after confirmation by the US Senate. Here’s a look at some of the nominees announced by Joe Biden:1. Antony Blinken (secretary of state): A former deputy national security advisor and deputy secretary of state, Blinken was nominated by Biden as the incoming secretary of state on November 23, 2020. Blinken will succeed incumbent Mike Pompeo, who is the 70th person to hold this office.2. Janet Yellen (secretary of treasury): A former chairperson of the US Federal Reserve, and the first woman in that post, Yellen was nominated by Biden on November 30, 2020. If confirmed, Yellen will also be the first female secretary of treasury of the US. She will succeed the incumbent and 77th treasury secretary, Steve Mnuchin.3. Lloyd Austin (secretary of defense): Nominated on December 8, 2020, Austin served as the 12th commander of the US Central Command (CENTCOM), of which he was the first black commander. He also served as the 33rd vice chief of staff of the US Army. If confirmed, he’ll be the 28th secretary of defense, and the first African-American to hold the position. He will succeed Christopher Miller, who has been serving in an acting capacity since November 2020 after Trump’s sacking of Mark Esper.4. Merrick Garland (attorney general): On January 7, 2021, Biden announced Garland as his pick for attorney general. Garland’s nomination came on a day Biden himself was officially certified as president-elect. Garland will succeed acting attorney general Jeff Rosen who took over after William Barr, the 85th attorney general, resigned.5. Alejandro Mayorkas (secretary of homeland security): The department of homeland security will get its first full-time occupant since April 2019 when Mayorkas takes over the position. Announced as nominee on November 23, 2020, Mayorkas will be the seventh secretary of homeland security.6. Deb Haaland (secretary of interior): Nominated on December 17, 2020, Haaland will be the first native American to head the department of interior, and the first native American cabinet secretary. She will succeed David Bernhardt, who has been serving in acting capacity since April 2019.Other names announced by Biden include Tom Vilsack (secretary of agriculture), Gina Raimondo (secretary of commerce), Marty Walsh (secretary of labour), Jennifer Granholm (secretary of energy) etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-congress-certifies-joe-biden-s-win-the-who-s-who-of-president-elect-s-cabinet/story-BVM3kbQeM67NXcnSJOhlTN.html
08-01-2021||World||Japan faces steep test to contain coronavirus spread in just a month||Japan’s second state of emergency is set to last a month, but public health experts have already expressed doubts that four weeks is enough time to sufficiently slow the coronavirus that’s spreading at an alarming rate.With residents increasingly facing virus fatigue and no legal framework to force compliance, the country could struggle to quickly turn the trend of infections downward, experts say. Japan has reported new daily records in the past two days, especially around the capital of Tokyo.“I’m not sure if the situation can become better within a month,” Hitoshi Oshitani, a professor of virology at Tohoku University and a member of the expert panel advising the government, told Bloomberg News. “It’s certainly much more difficult to control the current situation compared to the outbreak in summer.”Japan has enacted a more limited emergency this time, mainly aimed at shortening restaurant hours and encouraging remote work. The measures for now only apply to the capital of Tokyo and three surrounding prefectures. Movie theaters, gyms, karaoke parlors and theme parks, all of which closed during the emergency last spring, are set to stay open with reduced hours, while large events will still be allowed with reduced capacity.Regions under the emergency will need to emerge from “Stage 4,” the highest government designation for the pandemic, for the status to be lifted. The stages look at factors such as medical capacity, the number of patients, the test positivity rate and the weekly increase in new infections. Experts will continually examine the data to determine which areas meet which stages, they said.Shigeru Omi, the head of the panel of experts advising the government who said early this week it would be “next to impossible” for Japan to emerge from the emergency in a month, shifted his tone when he briefed the press together with Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga Thursday.“It’s not very easy,” Omi said, “but I believe it’s possible to reduce the infections to a Stage 3 level within a month, if everybody does their best.” Omi said people needed to follow the suggested measures to stay home and avoid nighttime dining and drinking, but it’s been a tough task keeping the younger people out of such venues, where the virus has been spreading throughout the pandemic.Forthcoming legal changes, which will include the ability to fine establishments that refuse closure requests as well as formalize payments for cooperation, would also be needed, he added. The government will seek to amend related legislation when the Diet resumes on January 18.The emergency Japan enacted last spring began with a declaration for seven prefectures. That was later expanded nationwide, and the duration extended, before being lifted in stages toward the end of May.Japan, which had won early praise for its ability to contain the virus without strict lockdowns, saw challenges emerge to its strategy of “living with the virus” as winter approached. Cases began increasing nationwide in November, and have surged in the past week, particularly in the regions near Tokyo. Leaders in other regions, including industrial heartland Aichi and business hub Osaka, have already suggested they may also need to request an emergency declaration as cases surge.Tokyo FailureThe country has struggled to enlist public cooperation the same way it did in spring. Officials have fretted that concern over the virus was dropping, while many bars and restaurants, already pushed to the edge over the past year, may be reluctant to cooperate with requests to close.The severe situation in Tokyo is likely due to its failure to enact stricter measures earlier in December, Oshitani said. Areas including Osaka and Hokkaido requested restaurants to close as early as 9 p.m., or to close completely, as the month is a high season for drinking and dining, with social groups and workplaces holding traditional year-end parties.“In December, Tokyo could not implement aggressive measures -- that’s probably why we’re seeing the increasing trend, particularly in the Tokyo metropolitan area,” Oshitani said. “It was important to implement more aggressive measures in December because of the party season.”Although Tokyo authorities asked for people to avoid these celebrations, the effect was limited. Data from the virus task force showed that while footfall in entertainment districts in Osaka and Hokkaido fell sharply after requests to close, traffic actually rose in Tokyo.Oshitani said he was hopeful that as January and February tend to be quiet social periods in Japan, people will heed the calls to stay home and slow the virus spread.“I believe we can still manage to control the situation,” he said. “It totally depends on people’s behavior change.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/japan-faces-steep-test-to-contain-coronavirus-spread-in-just-a-month/story-tRZomNr9T5LDb9D4Zj4cVP.html
08-01-2021||World||Faced with removal and prosecution, Trump owns up defeat, slams Capitol raiders||President Donald Trump on Thursday finally acknowledged publicly that a “new administration” will be taking office shortly as calls grew for his removal from office and a top federal prosecutor said the president’s incendiary remarks to his supporters before they stormed the Capitol will be a part of an investigation into this shocking attack on US democracy.“Now, Congress has certified the results, and new administration will be inaugurated on January 20. My focus now turns to ensuring a smooth orderly and seamless transition of power,” Trump said in a two-and-a-half-minute video in which he also condemned the attack on Congress, essentially to distance himself from his supporters who carried it out to prevent it from certifying President-elect Joe Biden’s election victory. On Wednesday, he had told them he loved them.Five people died in the hours-long assault on the seat of US democracy that had forced Vice-President Mike Pence, who was presiding over the certification process, his family, who were also there, and lawmakers to take shelter wherever they could behind furniture and under desks.Badly outnumbered, security personnel had withdrawn, yielding full control of the premises to the rioters clad in Trump campaign gear and carrying his flag, and those of the confederacy.The outgoing president’s long overdue acknowledgement of his electoral defeat came hours after his supporters’ failed attempt to prevent the certification of Biden’s election, and amidst calls from top Democrats for his ouster, purely a punitive move to end his term just 12 days short of its expiry on January 20.“I join the Senate Democratic leader in calling on the vice president to remove this president by immediately invoking the 25th amendment. If the vice-president and cabinet do not act, the Congress may be prepared to move forward with impeachment. That is the overwhelming sentiment of my caucus - and the American people by the way,” Nancy Pelosi, Speaker of the Democratic-controlled House of Representatives told reports on Capitol Hill.She added: “By inciting sedition as he did yesterday, he must be removed for office. While there’s only 13 days left, any day could be a horror show for America.”But Pence was elusive. Senate Minority Leader Charles Schumer complained to reporters separately he and Pelosi had tried to call Pence to tell him to invoke the 25th amendment of the American constitution, which empowers the cabinet to remove the president for being “unable to discharge the powers and duties of his office”. But the vice-president did not take their call as, it was reported later, he is not convinced of the judiciousness of the move given the chaos in the White House and the administration.Trump’s role in the attack on Congress will be part of a sprawling investigation that is underway to identify and prosecute the rioters. Asked if federal agents and prosecutors will look at the incendiary statements by speakers at a rally Trump’s addressed shortly before the mob set forth for the Capitol, interim US attorney for the District of Columbia, Michael Sherwin, told reporters on a briefing call: “Yes, we are looking at all actors here, not only the people that went into the building, but… were there others that maybe assisted or facilitated or played some ancillary role in this. We will look at every actor and all criminal charges.” Trump had explicitly incited participants at the rally to march to Congress, promising to walk along with them — which he didn’t — to cheer lawmakers speaking in support of his election fraud claims. “We’re going to walk down to the Capitol, and we’re going to cheer on our brave senators and congressmen and women,” Trump had told his supporters, referring to the certification process. “And we’re probably not going to be cheering, so much for some of them because you never take back our country with weakness, you have to show strength and you have to be strong.”Rudolph Giuliani, the president’s personal lawyer, had called for a “trial by combat” at that rally. And the president’s eldest son, Don Trump Jr, had called for a “message (to be sent) to all the Republicans who have not been willing to actually fight, the people who did nothing to stop the steal”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/faced-with-removal-and-prosecution-trump-owns-up-defeat-slams-capitol-raiders/story-VPCorETyesTvpPgzOPeXLK.html
08-01-2021||World||Chinese city sealed off to squash coronavirus outbreak||China has sealed off a large city near Beijing, cutting transport links and banning millions of residents from leaving, as authorities move to stem the country’s largest Covid-19 outbreak in six months.The pandemic has so far broadly been brought to heel by Chinese authorities since its emergence in Wuhan in late 2019, with small outbreaks swiftly snuffed out with mass testing, local lockdowns and travel restrictions.Around 100 new Covid-19 cases have been discovered in the past week in Shijiazhuang, a city of several million in Hebei province whose surrounding areas take the total population to 11 million.All vehicles and residents were banned from leaving the city and train services suspended, authorities announced late Thursday. Footage from state broadcaster CCTV showed residents being swabbed by medical workers in hazmat suits at community centres in Shijiazhuang while queues outside stretched around the block. Virus control staff stood guard at highways entering the city, which had mostly been blocked by barricades, the images released on Thursday showed.Hebei province reported 33 new confirmed Covid-19 cases on Friday in addition to 51 from the day before -- pushing the nationwide daily total to the highest figure in five months. The vast majority of the infections were found in Shijiazhuang. Schools have been closed and citywide mass testing of residents is under way, having sampled over 670,000 people as of Thursday morning, state media reported.Staff were filmed giving injections of China’s recently approved Sinopharm vaccine, which has a 79 percent efficacy rate.Three officials from the city’s worst-hit Gaocheng district -- the epicentre of the latest outbreak -- have been disciplined for apparent negligence in virus control, a sign of the pressure on local authorities to squash the virus wherever it emerges.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/chinese-city-sealed-off-to-squash-coronavirus-outbreak/story-iu1agJn1HWncvAifqoaVlI.html
08-01-2021||World||US Capitol violence triggers exodus of officials from Trump administration||The violent protest that shook the US Capitol on Wednesday has led to an exodus of officials from US President Donald Trump’s administration. It also triggered massive outrage among the leaders as Democrats mulled Trump ouster.The President condemned the violence, saying rioters had defiled the seat of American democracy and must be held accountable. This came a day later when Trump had told his supporters, “We love you. You’re very special,” as he urged them to go home after they broke into the Capitol.Thousands of protesters supporting US President Donald Trump breached the security of the US capitol late on Wednesday night as Congress was certifying President-elect Joe Biden’s victory. The protesters demanded the result to be overturned as they ransacked the Capitol building which houses both House of Representatives and the Senate.Here is who all have resigned so far:Members of White House National Security CouncilAs per Reuters’ report, four officials from White House National Security Council including Erin Walsh, senior director for African affairs; Mark Vandroff, senior director for defense policy; Anthony Rugierro, senior director for weapons of mass destruction; and Rob Greenway, senior director for Middle Eastern and North African affairs have resigned form their own respective posts.US Education Secretary Betsy DeVosOne of Trump’s most stalwart supporters, DeVos submitted her resignation on Thursday. She was among the longest-serving members of his administration. She was appointed to the cabinet in 2017.Transportation Secretary Elaine ChaoAlong with DeVos, Chao was also among the most loyal supporters of President Trump. She resigned on Thursday over the Capitol violence. She is married to Republican Senate majority Leader Mitch McConnell. “It was “a traumatic and entirely avoidable event as supporters of the president stormed the Capitol building following a rally he addressed,” she said earlier on Thursday.Mick Mulvaney, the US special envoy for Northern Ireland and the former acting White House chief of staffHe has submitted his resignation on Thursday effective from Friday. Earlier speaking to the US television, Mulvaney said, “I can’t stay here, not after yesterday. You can’t look at that yesterday and think I want to be a part of that in any way, shape or form.” “Those who choose to stay, and I have talked with some of them, are choosing to stay because they’re worried the president might put someone worse in,” he also said.Deputy national security adviser Matthew PottingerA former journalist and one of Trump’s devoted loyalists, Pottinger resigned on Wednesday. He was appointed to the position in September 2019 and was the leading figure in the development of Trump’s China policy.Acting chairman of the White House Council of Economic Advisers Tyler GoodspeedGoodspeed stepped down from his post on Thursday in the wake of violent protests. He was appointed to the council in May of 2019. With, Goodspeed leaving the department, the council is left with zero members.Deputy assistant secretary at the Commerce Department John CostelloCostello announced his departure in a blistering tweet, writing, “yesterday’s events were an unprecedented attack on the very core of our democracy - incited by a sitting president.”Chief of staff and press secretary to first lady Stephanie GrishamTop aide of First Lady Melania Trump, Grisham resigned hours after the chaos unfolded on late Wednesday night. “It has been an honour to serve the country in the White House. I am very proud to have been a part of Mrs. Trump’s mission to help children everywhere and proud of the many accomplishments of this administration,” Grisham said in a statement.White House deputy press secretary Sarah MatthewsMatthews also resigned on Wednesday. She joined the White House in 2020. “As someone who worked in the halls of Congress I was deeply disturbed by what I saw today,” Matthews said in a statement. “I’ll be stepping down from my role, effective immediately. Our nation needs a peaceful transfer of power.”White House social secretary Rickie NicetaShe also resigned in response to the violence on Wednesday. Before entering White House, Lloyd was working for Design Cuisine, a catering company.Besides Trump officials, US Capitol Police Chief Steven A Sund is also among the key resignations that the government has faced after the violence. Sund resigned on Thursday and his last day will be on January 16, according to an official statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-capitol-violence-triggers-exodus-of-officials-from-trump-administration/story-niR3ytWJfygUTYKNdKMbCL.html
08-01-2021||World||US role as democracy's champion battered by assault on Capitol||The United States will find it harder to advocate for democracy and rule of law abroad after the assault on the US Capitol unless it grapples with President Donald Trump's role in the violence, current and former US diplomats said.After a rally where the president exhorted them to fight to overturn the Nov. 3 US election that he lost, hundreds of Trump supporters stormed the Capitol on Wednesday, forcing legislators to evacuate as they smashed windows and looted.Scenes of lawmakers cowering and police officers with guns drawn seeking to protect them undercut the image Washington has long projected as a champion of democracy despite its past interference in the politics of nations such as Guatemala, Iran and South Vietnam.In a memo to staff on Thursday, a senior State Department official said, "As voices around the world attempt to use yesterday's events to discredit our efforts to defend democracy and human rights abroad, we must firmly reject that view.""Political leaders from across the spectrum in our country unequivocally denounced the violence yesterday," Michael Kozak, the acting assistant secretary of state for Western Hemisphere affairs, wrote in the memo, which was read to Reuters."The thugs who overran Congress" did not keep it from certifying that Democrat Joe Biden defeated Trump, Kozak said, adding that the Republican president "affirmed that our nation will have an orderly transition to a new administration on Jan. 20."Serving and former US diplomats, however, said the note put the best face on events and failed to address what they saw as Trump's incitement of the violence, his initial failure to condemn it, and his repeated false assertions of victory."This was an undemocratic assault against one of the citadels ... of our democracy promoted by people who sent them up there, like the president of the United States, his lawyer and his son making incendiary statements," a senior US diplomat said, speaking on condition of anonymity."It's not just the assault of the mob. It's what preceded it, what caused it," he added. "We have to be honest about this ... not just repeat the standard talking points."A former senior US diplomat said Washington's ability to convince others of the virtues of democracy rested, in part, on embodying them itself. "It was easier to do that a week ago than it is today," the former diplomat said.Asked to comment on the memo, and on the views of the current and former diplomats, a State Department spokesperson said: "We do not comment on purportedly leaked internal communications."After falsely claiming Thursday morning that the election was stolen, Trump on Thursday evening acknowledged that Biden will be the next president and called the attack "heinous." A day earlier, in a video taped in the White House Rose Garden and posted on Twitter as protesters stormed the Capitol, Trump told them to "go home," adding, "...we love you, you're very special."Kenneth Roth, executive director of Human Rights Watch, said foreign leaders such as Russian President Vladimir Putin and Chinese President Xi Jinping would exploit the assault on the Capitol to assert the superiority of their autocratic systems."Putin and Xi Jinping push the supposed stability of their dictatorships over the messiness of democracy," he said. "What happened yesterday is going to be Exhibit A in their case for a long time."In fact, China's state media, in editorials on Friday, said the storming of the US Capital reflected a failure of leadership, with the Global Times calling it a sign of "internal collapse" in the US political system.Roth, along with the serving and former US diplomats, argued that a key test for the United States would be how it handles Trump's actions and whether he is held accountable or punished."Our message to the world has never been that we're perfect. It's that we have a system that is capable of correcting its imperfections," said Democratic Representative Tom Malinowski.A former top U.S. human rights diplomat, Malinowski said he supported impeaching Trump "precisely because we need to show the American people, first and foremost, but also the rest of the world that nobody in this country is above the law."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-capitol-police-officer-dies-from-injuries-in-riot-by-trump-supporters/story-8ZEsxXVWePRVVr9u1lqz9J.html
08-01-2021||World||Officer dies following clash with pro-Trump mob at US Capitol: Police||A US Capitol Police officer has died of injuries sustained during clashes with a mob of President Donald Trump’s supporters who overran a session of Congress, police said late Thursday.It was the first law enforcement death stemming from the violence at the Capitol on Wednesday which saw flag-waving crowds overwhelm police and break into the legislature.Also Read | Faced with removal and prosecution, Trump owns up defeat, slams Capitol raidersFour protesters died, including a woman who was shot by police. Three other deaths were reported on the Capitol grounds, but the circumstances remained unclear.Officer Brian Sicknick, a 12-year veteran of the force, was “responding to the riots on Wednesday, January 6, 2021, at the US Capitol and was injured while physically engaging with protesters,” Capitol Police said in a statement.“He returned to his division office and collapsed. He was taken to a local hospital where he succumbed to his injuries” on Thursday night, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/officer-dies-a-day-after-clashing-with-pro-trump-mob-at-us-capitol-police/story-b8radfqh78iEkanf4avg8N.html
08-01-2021||World||Joe Biden picks Boston mayor Marty Walsh as labor secretary||President-elect Joe Biden announced Thursday that he has chosen Boston Mayor Marty Walsh to be his labor secretary, selecting a former union worker who shares Biden’s Irish-American background and working-class roots.Walsh, 53, has served as the Democratic mayor of Boston since 2014. When he took the oath of office in 2018 for his second term as Boston’s chief executive, Biden presided over the inauguration. Biden made the announcement hours after Walsh’s selection was confirmed by two people familiar with the president-elect’s decision. The people spoke on condition of anonymity before Biden’s formal announcement.Biden planned to introduce the newest additions to his economic team to the public at an event Friday in Wilmington, Delaware.“This team will help us emerge from the most inequitable economic and jobs crisis in modern history by building an economy where every American is in on the deal,” he said in a statement. “They share my belief that the middle class built this country and that unions built the middle class.”Biden also announced that he has tapped Rhode Island Gov. Gina Raimondo to be commerce secretary and Isabel Guzman, a California small-business advocate, to lead the Small Business Administration.Walsh was a state representative for more than a decade before becoming mayor.Walsh, a former union worker, has a long history with labor. He served as president of Laborers Local 223 and, before becoming mayor, headed up the Boston Building Trades — a union umbrella organization.At Walsh’s second mayoral inauguration, Biden praised him for his character and efforts to create a thriving middle class, calling him a “man of extraordinary character in a moment when we need more character and incredible courage.”“We’re at a moment when mayors and governors matter more than they ever did,” Biden said at the event. “We need leaders who will stand up against the ugly divisiveness spewing out of Washington every day.”During his tenure as mayor, Walsh has overseen the city’s ongoing rejuvenation, which has led to challenges that include gentrification and rising housing costs.He’s also grappled with the city’s history of racial tensions to try to make the city more welcoming for people of all backgrounds.Most recently, Walsh has helped lead the city through the ongoing coronavirus pandemic with its myriad challenges, from helping maintain local businesses to ensuring widespread testing for the coronavirus to figuring out how to maintain access to public schools.Walsh and Biden share an Irish American background.Last year, Biden videotaped a message for the city’s annual St. Patrick’s Day breakfast. The event pulls together the state’s top elected officials, Democrats and Republicans, to enjoy Irish music and food — and cringe-worthy jokes.“We Irish, as you know, we’re dreamers, yet we’re realists. We’re spiritual, yet we are doubters. We are compassionate, yet we’re demanding. Everything in us runs deep: sadness and joy, heartache and hope, fortitude and faith,” Biden said in his message last year. “We are the only people on earth who are always nostalgic for the future.”The son of Irish immigrants, Walsh grew up in a triple-decker in Boston’s working-class Dorchester neighborhood. As a child, he survived a four-year bout with Burkitt lymphoma starting when he was 7.Walsh said one of the toughest things about his cancer treatment was losing his hair, which he said was red at the time and hard to match for a wig. He later recalled how someone living on the top floor of the three-family home clipped a bit of his hair and came back later with an identical red wig.Walsh has also been forthcoming about his early struggles with alcohol and has used his history with addiction to encourage others to seek help. He began his speech at the 2016 Democratic National Convention by saying: “Good evening. My name is Marty Walsh, and I’m an alcoholic.”“On April 23, 1995, I hit rock bottom. I woke up with little memory of the night before and even less hope for the days to come,” he said at the time. “Everybody was losing faith in me, everybody except my family and the labor movement.”His nomination was praised by union leaders Thursday.Mary Kay Henry, international president of the Service Employees International Union, said Walsh brings a “pro-worker vision” to the Labor Department that is badly needed and called him a “champion for working people.”AFL-CIO President Richard Trumka said Walsh will be an “exceptional” labor secretary who understands that collective bargaining will combat inequality, beat COVID-19 and expand opportunities for immigrants, women and people of power.“From the Boston Building and Construction Trades Council to the Massachusetts State House to the mayor’s office to his own personal journey with overcoming addiction, Marty Walsh has always been a fighter who understands the power of working people standing together for a better life,” Trumka said.Walsh’s union history has led to some awkward moments as mayor, including when two former Walsh aides were charged with bullying music festival organizers into hiring union workers.Kenneth Brissette, the city’s former director of tourism, and Timothy Sullivan, who was chief of intergovernmental affairs, were convicted in federal court in 2019 of conspiring to extort the organizers of the Boston Calling music festival by withholding city permits.A federal judge later tossed the convictions, saying the government failed to prove the existence of a quid pro quo.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/joe-biden-picks-boston-mayor-marty-walsh-as-labor-secretary/story-DqKVkuhsXSmjz23LpGJ9LM.html
08-01-2021||World||Donald Trump prepares pardon list for aides and family, and maybe himself||President Donald Trump has prepared a sweeping list of individuals he’s hoping to pardon in the final days of his administration that includes senior White House officials, family members, prominent rappers -- and possibly himself, according to people familiar with the matter.Trump is hoping to announce the pardons on Jan. 19 -- his final full day in office -- and his ideas are currently being vetted by senior advisers and the White House counsel’s office, the people said.The biggest question facing his legal team may be whether the president has the authority to pardon himself, as he has discussed in recent weeks with top aides, according to the people familiar with his conversations. Trump has previously claimed the power, though it’s a matter of legal dispute and has never before been attempted by a president.A self-pardon could also prove a major political liability and hamstring another presidential bid, with opponents sure to suggest the self-pardon amounted to an admission that he thought he might be prosecuted for breaking the law.Preemptive pardons are under discussion for top White House officials who have not been charged with crimes, including Chief of Staff Mark Meadows, senior adviser Stephen Miller, personnel chief John McEntee, and social media director Dan Scavino.The president’s eldest daughter, Ivanka Trump, her husband, Jared Kushner, who both hold White House positions, are also under consideration, the people said. Trump’s personal lawyer Rudy Giuliani has also discussed the issue of a pardon with the president.Preemptive pardons are also under consideration for other members of the president’s family, as well as friends and allies. For instance, Trump has floated a preemptive pardon for Kimberly Guilfoyle, the former Fox News host who is dating his eldest son, Donald Trump Jr.The president wants the preemptive pardons to shield recipients from prosecutions for any federal crimes committed before the pardons were issued.He’s also considering a traditional pardon for Albert Pirro, who previously worked with the president on real estate deals and was convicted of tax fraud. Pirro is the ex-husband of Fox News host Jeanine Pirro, a former district attorney of Westchester County in New York.Celebrity PardonsTrump is similarly considering pardoning celebrities including rapper Lil Wayne -- with whom he posed for a photo during the presidential campaign --as well as rapper Kodak Black, who is serving time for falsifying paperwork to obtain a firearm.Other prominent celebrities including rapper Lil Yachty and Baltimore Ravens quarterback Lamar Jackson have publicly lobbied Trump to pardon Kodak Black, who said in a now-deleted tweet that he would donate $1 million to charity if the president freed him.Trump’s list is currently being vetted by lawyers who are concerned that pardons could create new allegations of obstruction of justice for members of the administration. The process is being managed in part by White House Counsel Pat Cipollone. A White House spokesman did not immediately respond to a request for comment.While some of the proposed pardons have moved through the legal steps needed inside the White House, the idea of a self-pardon is far less developed, the people say, and so far only at the discussion stage.Shielding TrumpA self-pardon could shield Trump from prosecution over a myriad of issues his political opponents have suggested could be worthy of prosecution, from his federal income tax filings to hush money payments to an adult film star to his inaugural committee’s spending at venues owned by the Trump family.Some Democrats have continued to say Trump should face legal scrutiny over the Russian interference campaign during the 2016 election, despite Special Counsel Robert Mueller finding no evidence the president colluded with the Kremlin. And in recent days, Trump has drawn scrutiny over his effort to pressure officials in Georgia to overturn the results of the presidential election there, as well as inciting what became a violent mob that stormed the U.S. Capitol on Wednesday.The Constitution says that a president “shall have Power to grant Reprieves and Pardons for Offences against the United States, except in Cases of Impeachment.” That sprawling authority is seen as absolute by some, though a Department of Justice legal opinion from 1974 stated that “the president cannot pardon himself,” because of what it described as a “fundamental rule that no one may be a judge in his own case.”Brian Kalt, a professor at Michigan State University College of Law who has written extensively about self-pardons, said it’s not clear whether the president can do it.“The main argument in favor of the self-pardon power is that the Constitution does not expressly rule it out, and that the pardon power is extremely expansive,” he said.“The argument against self-pardonability starts with the idea that granting a pardon is, by definition, something one can only do to another person,” Kalt said. “There is also a general principle in the law against being the judge in one’s own case.”Ford and NixonTrump would not be the first person to issue pardons preemptively, though the action is rare. Gerald Ford did so for Richard Nixon only a month after his resignation over the Watergate scandal, granting him a “full, free, and absolute pardon” for offenses he “has committed or may have committed or taken part in” during his entire term as president.Trump’s pardoning power only extends to federal crimes, meaning he could not protect himself or his family from legal trouble on the state level. New York Attorney General Letitia James had opened a civil fraud inquiry into the president’s businesses while Manhattan District Attorney Cy Vance is pursuing a criminal investigation.Trump has already issued pardons to several political allies and friends, including in the weeks since he lost re-election.Among those pardoned in recent days were Trump’s 2016 campaign chairman, Paul Manafort, who’d been convicted of financial crimes and illegal lobbying, and Charles Kushner, the real estate developer and father of the president’s son-in-law. The elder Kushner was convicted of charges that included preparing false tax returns and witness retaliation.(Updates with politics of self-pardons, in fourth paragraph.)For more articles like this, please visit us at bloomberg.com©2021 Bloomberg L.P.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-prepares-pardon-list-for-aides-and-family-and-maybe-himself/story-vCvH4imniJjz7rUFCvrvMJ.html
08-01-2021||World||Covid-19 vaccination: Second pan-India dry run today, Chinese vaccine found 78% effective in Brazil||The global caseload of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) is close to 88 million, while nearly 1.9 million people have succumbed to the infection, the Johns Hopkins University tracker shows. Immunisation drives are currently underway in several countries, with most countries having cleared the vaccine of America’s Pfizer Inc and its German partner BioNTech SE, as well as that of Moderna, another American firm. The vaccine developed by British-Swedish firm AstraZeneca, in collaboration with Oxford University, too, has been granted emergency use authorisation (EUA) by several countries.Here are some latest updates on the Covid-19 vaccination front:1. A second pan-India dry run will be carried out on Friday, after the first phase was conducted on January 2. The first vaccination dry run of any kind in India was carried out on December 28 and 29 across four states: Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Gujarat and Punjab. India has granted EUA to AstraZeneca-Oxford University’s Covishield and Bharat Biotech International Limited’s Covaxin. The vaccines are likely to be rolled out across the country next week.Also Read | 2nd vaccination dry run across the country today: All you need to know2. Officials in Brazil, the world’s third worst-hit country, on Thursday announced that the vaccine candidate developed by China’s Sinovac was found 78% effective in a late-stage trial in the South American nation. Officials further said detailed results will be submitted to the country’s health regulator, Anvisa, to seek EUA for the vaccine. Brazil is yet to clear a vaccine against Covid-19.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage3. Spain’s health minister Salvador Illa on Thursday said the country will receive its first batch of Moderna’s vaccine in the next seven-10 days. In the coming six weeks, Illa said, Spain will receive 600,000 doses of the vaccine. Spain has already authorised the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine and has distributed 744,000 doses thus far.4. South Africa, the worst-affected country in Africa, will procure 1.5 million doses of the AstraZeneca vaccine for its health workers, its government announced on Thursday.The first 1 million doses will be delivered later this month, with the next 500,000 to arrive in February, health minister Zwelini Mkhize said. This will also be South Africa’s first purchase of a Covid-19 vaccine.5. America’s Novavax Inc disclosed in a regulatory filing on Thursday an advanced agreement had been signed by Australia to purchase 51 million doses of its experimental Covid-19 vaccine. Australia can purchase up to an additional 10 million doses, with the initial delivery expected by mid-2021, the company said.6. Mexico’s government on Thursday said it had sent two top officials, including the country’s deputy health minister, to Argentina for “urgent discussions” over Russia’s Sputnik V Covid-19 vaccine. Argentina rolled out the vaccine on December 29. Mexico, on the other hand, has rolled out Pfizer’s vaccine. Both countries have also authorised the AstraZeneca vaccine.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-vaccination-second-pan-india-dry-run-today-chinese-vaccine-found-78-effective-in-brazil/story-7iy0ZmQSDoZh5FoVQCrU8I.html
08-01-2021||World||Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine appears effective against mutation in new coronavirus variants: Study||Pfizer Inc and BioNTech’s Covid-19 vaccine appeared to work against a key mutation in the highly transmissible new variants of the coronavirus discovered in the UK and South Africa, according to a laboratory study conducted by the U.S. drugmaker.The not-yet peer reviewed study by Pfizer and scientists from the University of Texas Medical Branch indicated the vaccine was effective in neutralizing virus with the so-called N501Y mutation of the spike protein.The mutation could be responsible for greater transmissibility and there had been concern it could also make the virus escape antibody neutralization elicited by the vaccine, said Phil Dormitzer, one of Pfizer’s top viral vaccine scientists.The study was conducted on blood taken from people who had been given the vaccine. Its findings are limited, because it does not look at the full set of mutations found in either of the new variants of the rapidly spreading virus.Dormitzer said it was encouraging that the vaccine appears effective against the mutation, as well as 15 other mutations the company has previously tested against.“So we’ve now tested 16 different mutations, and none of them have really had any significant impact. That’s the good news,” he said. “That doesn’t mean that the 17th won’t.”Dormitzer noted another mutation found in the South African variant, called the E484K mutation, is also concerning.The researchers plan to run similar tests to see if the vaccine is effective against other mutations found in the UK and South African variants and hope to have more data within weeks.Scientists have expressed concern that vaccines being rolled out may not be able to protect against the new variants, particularly the one that emerged in South Africa.Simon Clarke, an associate professor in cellular microbiology at the University of Reading, said this week that while both variants had some new features in common, the one found in South Africa “has a number additional mutations” that included more extensive alterations to the spike protein.The Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine and the one from Moderna Inc , which use synthetic messenger RNA technology, can be quickly tweaked to address new mutations of a virus if necessary. Scientists have suggested the changes could be made in as little as six weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pfizer-biontech-vaccine-appears-effective-against-mutation-in-new-coronavirus-variants-study/story-2amszwqKLtQih15gkEdKgJ.html
08-01-2021||World||Australian city on lockdown over UK variant case||Australia’s third-largest city, Brisbane, will lock down for three days from Friday after a cleaner at a quarantine hotel was diagnosed with the highly contagious British variant of Covid-19.Masks will also become compulsory for the first time in Brisbane and some surrounding municipalities, the Queensland state government said.“We know that that strain is 70% more infectious and we know the extreme difficulty that the UK has had in controlling their outbreak due to that strain,” Queensland Chief Health Officer Jeannette Young said.“So we need to act really, really fast. We need to find every single case now,” Young added.While several cases of the variant have been found in travellers in hotel quarantine, the cleaner is the first person to be infected with it in Australia.Authorities believe the woman, aged in her 20s, was infectious from January 2. She tested positive after showing symptoms on Wednesday.Her diagnosis ends almost four months of no locally acquired infections in Queensland.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/australian-city-on-lockdown-over-uk-variant-case/story-7CoP5sSoIs9hS8b8awPnFO.html
08-01-2021||World||Donald Trump returns to Twitter as Facebook’s Mark Zuckerberg bans him for ‘fanning the flames’||US President Donald Trump returned to Twitter on Thursday with a video acknowledging that Joe Biden would be the next US president as other social media services including Facebook Inc blocked his accounts over concerns that his messages might spark further violent protests. Twitter unlocked the president’s @realDonaldTrump Twitter account, which has 88 million followers, after Trump removed three rule-breaking tweets. His first post back on the platform featured a video in which he said he was focused on a peaceful transition of power and which was viewed 1.4 million times within 15 minutes of posting.Tech companies have been scrambling to crack down on the president’s baseless claims about the Nov. 3 US presidential election after hundreds of Trump supporters stormed the US Capitol in unrest that resulted in four deaths.Trump’s accounts remain blocked on Facebook and Instagram for at least two weeks and perhaps indefinitely. Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg said in a Thursday post that the risks of allowing him to use the platform were “simply too great.” Facebook’s move marked the most significant sanction of the president by a major social media company. Live-streaming platform Twitch and photo-sharing service Snap Inc issued similar bans. “The shocking events of the last 24 hours clearly demonstrate that President Donald Trump intends to use his remaining time in office to undermine the peaceful and lawful transition of power to his elected successor, Joe Biden,” Zuckerberg said in his Facebook post.White House spokesman Judd Deere said in response that the companies had censored the president at a critical time for the country. “Big Tech is out of control,” he said. Zuckerberg said the block on Trump’s Facebook page, which has 35 million followers, would last at least until Biden takes office on Jan. 20. At an all-hands meeting on Thursday, Zuckerberg told employees he considered it important political leaders “lead by example and make sure we put the nation first.”“What we’ve seen is that the president has been doing the opposite of that and instead fanning the flames of those who think they should turn to violence to overturn the election outcome,” he said, according to audio of the remarks heard by Reuters.Social media companies have been under pressure to police misinformation about the US election on their platforms, including from the president. Trump and his allies for months have amplified baseless claims of election fraud and the president told protesters to go to Capitol Hill, with both Republicans and Democrats saying he was responsible for the resulting violence. Amazon.com Inc’s Twitch disabled Trump’s channel due to the “extraordinary circumstances and the president’s incendiary rhetoric,” it said. A spokeswoman said the company would reassess Trump’s account after he leaves office. E-commerce platform Shopify shut service for stores affiliated with Trump for violations of its “acceptable use” policy, prompting e-commerce sites for both the campaign and the Trump Organization to go offline.BLOCKS ‘LONG OVERDUE’Facebook’s decision follows bans in recent years of some government officials in India and Myanmar for promoting violence. A Facebook spokesman said the company had never before blocked a current president, prime minister or head of state. In a video posted to Facebook, Twitter and YouTube on Wednesday, which was later deleted by the platforms after garnering millions of views, Trump repeated election fraud claims as he told protesters to go home.Civil rights groups including Color of Change have called for social media companies to ban Trump permanently from the platforms, where he has repeatedly violated policies.The Anti-Defamation League praised Facebook’s move, calling it “an obvious first step,” while the NAACP in a statement said the move was a “long overdue” gesture that “rings hollow.”Facebook has drawn criticism for exempting politicians’ posts and ads from its third-party fact-checking program and repeatedly said it does not want to be “the arbiter of truth.” The company has in recent months started labeling some of Trump’s statements but faced questions about why it had not acted sooner against violent rhetoric that proliferated in the past few weeks as organizers planned the rally online.Democratic Representative Bennie Thompson, who chairs the House Homeland Security Committee, said in a statement he was “deeply frustrated that it took a group of domestic terrorists storming the Capitol” for Facebook to take action and wondered “if the decision was an opportunistic one, motivated by the news of a Democratically controlled Congress.”Democratic Senator Mark Warner, incoming chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, said the social media actions did not go far enough.“These platforms have served as core organizing infrastructure for violent, far right groups and militia movements for several years now – helping them to recruit, organize, coordinate and in many cases (particularly with respect to YouTube) generate profits from their violent, extremist content,” he said in a statement. YouTube, which is owned by Alphabet Inc’s Google, said Thursday any channel that posts videos with false claims about the election results will be temporarily restricted from uploading or live streaming. YouTube did not respond to a question about whether it would ban Trump’s account in the same manner as Facebook, while a Twitter spokesman said it was continuing to “evaluate the situation in real time, including examining activity on the ground and statements made off Twitter.” He said Twitter would inform the public if an “escalation” in its approach was necessary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-returns-to-twitter-as-facebook-s-mark-zuckerberg-bans-him-for-fanning-the-flames/story-d1NZ1whtZpQiioACzxCWOM.html
08-01-2021||World||US Capitol chaos: Donald Trump faces calls for removal, possible impeachment after violence||President Donald Trump faced the threat on Thursday of a second impeachment, a day after his supporters breached the U.S. Capitol in a stunning assault on American democracy as Congress was certifying President-elect Joe Biden’s victory.As Democratic leaders demanded his ouster, Trump came closer than he ever has to a formal concession, acknowledging a new administration would be sworn in on Jan. 20 and vowing to ensure a “smooth transition” in a video released on Thursday evening.The president condemned Wednesday’s violence, saying rioters had defiled the seat of American democracy and must be held accountable.Just a day earlier, Trump had told supporters: “We love you. You’re very special,” as he urged them to go home after they broke into the Capitol.In his remarks on Thursday, the president said: “We have just been through an intense election, and the emotions are high, but now tempers must be cooled and calm restored.“We must get on with the business of America,” Trump, a Republican, added, adopting a conciliatory tone seldom seen from the mercurial president.The statement was a stark reversal for Trump, who has spent months insisting he prevailed in the Nov. 3 election, alleging widespread fraud despite no evidence. As recently as Thursday morning, when he issued a statement via an aide, Trump was still claiming the election had been stolen.In the video, he defended his efforts to challenge the election in court, saying his goal was to “ensure the integrity of the vote.”But his exhortation on Wednesday to thousands of supporters that they march to the Capitol to protest the election results whipped up a mob that overran police officers and invaded the Capitol building, forcing members of Congress into hiding for their own safety.The violence claimed four lives, including a woman among the demonstrators who was shot by authorities. After reports that a Capitol Police officer had died, the agency issued a statement saying they were inaccurate.The top Democrats in Congress, House of Representatives Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Senate Democratic leader Chuck Schumer, called on Vice President Mike Pence and Trump’s Cabinet to use the U.S. Constitution to remove Trump for “his incitement of insurrection.”The 25th Amendment allows a majority of the Cabinet to remove a president from power if he is unable to discharge the duties of the office.But a Pence adviser said the vice president, who would have to lead any such effort, was opposed to using the amendment to oust Trump from the White House.NEW IMPEACHMENT PROCEEDINGS?If Pence fails to act, Pelosi signaled she would likely reconvene the House to initiate impeachment proceedings against Trump for his role in Wednesday’s violence. House Judiciary Committee Chairman Jerry Nadler, whose committee would likely draft any articles of impeachment, voiced his support earlier on Thursday.It was not clear whether House Democrats would have enough time to initiate and complete impeachment proceedings, with less than two weeks remaining in Trump’s term. Aides to Mitch McConnell, the Republican Senate leader, did not comment on the statement by Pelosi and Schumer.The Democratic-led House impeached Trump in December 2019 after he pressured the president of Ukraine to investigate Biden, but the Republican-controlled Senate acquitted him of charges of abusing his power and obstructing Congress.A handful of Republicans joined calls for Trump’s removal. The Wall Street Journal editorial page, seen as a leading voice of the Republican establishment, called on Trump to resign on Thursday evening.Several members of Trump’s administration, including Elaine Chao, the transportation secretary and McConnell’s wife, resigned as a symbolic gesture against the violence.Education Secretary Betsy DeVos also submitted her resignation, citing Trump’s rhetoric before the assault on the Capitol, the Wall Street Journal reported on Thursday night.Congress formally certified Biden’s election victory early on Thursday, after authorities cleared the Capitol. More than half of House Republicans and eight Republican senators voted to challenge the election results, backing Trump.Biden blamed Trump for the attack but stopped short of calling for his ouster.“He unleashed an all-out assault on the institutions of our democracy from the outset. And yesterday was but the culmination of that unrelenting attack,” Biden said at a news conference to announce his selection for U.S. attorney general, federal appeals Judge Merrick Garland.After Trump posted several messages about the demonstrations on Wednesday, Facebook Inc said it would ban Trump posts until Biden’s Jan. 20 inauguration. Twitter Inc suspended Trump’s account for 12 hours.The president has increasingly isolated himself in the White House, relying on a small group of diehard loyalists and lashing out at Pence and others who dare to cross him, four sources said.A source familiar with the situation said Trump in recent weeks had discussed the possibility of pardoning himself. The White House declined comment. Constitutional scholars have said it is unclear whether the presidential pardon power can be used in that way.Trump faces potential state legal actions when he leaves office, including a criminal probe in New York, that would not be covered by a federal pardon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-capitol-chaos-donald-trump-faces-calls-for-removal-possible-impeachment-after-violence/story-zuY1EDy6sq7XLRFFwGTgsI.html
08-01-2021||World||Mike Pompeo angers China with Hong Kong threat, plan to send envoy to Taiwan||Washington may sanction those involved in the arrest of over 50 people in Hong Kong and will send the US ambassador to the United Nations to visit Taiwan, Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said on Thursday, drawing anger and the threat of retaliation from Beijing.Pompeo said he was also “appalled” by the arrest of an American citizen in Wednesday’s crackdown and added: “The United States will not tolerate the arbitrary detention or harassment of US citizens.”Pompeo’s statement came after a day of turmoil in Washington that saw supporters of President Donald Trump storm Congress in a bid to overturn his November election defeat. Trump finally conceded on Thursday that Joe Biden, who is due to be sworn in on Jan. 20, will be the next US president. [nL1N2JI0JOEditorials in China’s state media on Friday said the attack on the Capitol reflected a failure of leadership as well as the deep divide in American society and accused US politicians of “double standards.”“In Hong Kong, violent actions are described as a ‘beautiful sight,’ in the US, people involved in this chaos are called ‘mobs’,” said The Global Times, a tabloid run by the People’s Daily, the newspaper of the ruling Communist Party.Hong Kong police arrested 53 democracy activists in dawn raids on Wednesday in the biggest crackdown on dissent since China imposed a security law last year.Among those detained was American lawyer John Clancey, who was allowed to leave a police station along with some others on Thursday.Pompeo called the arrests an “outrage and a reminder of the Chinese Communist Party’s contempt for its own people and the rule of law.”“The United States will consider sanctions and other restrictions on any and all individuals and entities involved in executing this assault on the Hong Kong people,” Pompeo said.He said it would also “explore restrictions against the Hong Kong Economic and Trade Office in the United States, and take additional immediate actions against officials who have undermined Hong Kong’s democratic processes.”Pompeo also announced that Kelly Craft, Washington’s U.N. ambassador, would visit Chinese-claimed and democratically run Taiwan, a highly symbolic trip as the island is not a U.N. member due to the objections of Beijing, which views Taiwan as a wayward province.“Taiwan shows what a free China could achieve,” he said.Chinese Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying said Pompeo’s comments represented a serious interference in the country’s internal affairs.“China will take all necessary steps to resolutely safeguard its sovereignty and security interests,” Hua told reporters. “The United States must pay a heavy price for its mistakes.”In a later statement, China’s mission to the United Nations called on Washington “to stop its crazy provocation” and warned that “whoever plays with fire will burn himself.”Taiwan welcomed Craft’s visit, which will be the first of a sitting US ambassador at the U.N. to the island, saying it demonstrated strong US support for Taiwan’s international participation.Day of turmoilUS lawmakers called the attack on Congress an embarrassment to US democracy that would play into the hands of rivals, and deputy national security adviser Matt Pottinger, a leading figure in the development of Trump’s China policy, was among a list of officials who quit in protest.“They’re high-fiving in Beijing,” Republican Senator Marco Rubio, a China hawk, told Tucker Carlson on the Fox News channel. “It kind of bolsters their claim that we’re falling apart and they’re the country of the future.”Trump has pursued hardline policies towards China on issues ranging from trade to espionage and the coronavirus and relations plummeted to their worst level in decades when he ramped up rhetoric in his unsuccessful re-election campaign.His administration has already imposed sanctions on Chinese officials for crushing Hong Kong’s pro-democracy movement and other alleged rights abuses.After a series of actions against Chinese firms, US officials were expected to discuss a proposed expansion of an executive order banning investment in companies with alleged ties to China’s military at a Thursday afternoon meeting, two people familiar with the matter said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/mike-pompeo-angers-china-with-hong-kong-threat-plan-to-send-envoy-to-taiwan/story-B1wNEaxainLEY0zr3Syx2J.html
08-01-2021||World||North Korea’s Kim Jong Un vows to improve ties with outside world at party meeting||North Korean leader Kim Jong Un underscored the need to drastically improve his nation’s ties with the outside world as he addressed a major political conference for the third consecutive day.State media said Kim also reviewed relations with rival South Korea but didn’t elaborate on what steps he said he wanted to take. Observers had expected Kim to use the first congress of the ruling Workers’ Party in five years to send conciliatory gestures toward Seoul and Washington as he faces deepening economic troubles at home.In his speech on the third day of the meeting Thursday, Kim “declared the general orientation and the policy stand of our party for comprehensively expanding and developing the external relations,” the Korean Central News Agency said Friday.Kim also examined relations with South Korea “as required by the prevailing situation and the changed times,” KCNA said.The congress is the party’s top decision-making body which review past projects, lay out new priorities and reshuffle top officials. This month’s congress was convened as Kim is struggling to overcome what he calls “multiple crises” caused by an economy battered by pandemic-related border closings, a series of natural disasters and US-led sanctions.In his opening-day speech, Kim admitted his previous economic developmental plans had failed and vowed to lay out a new five-year development plan. On the second day of the meeting, he said he would bolster his country’s military capability.The congress comes as Kim’s high-stakes nuclear diplomacy with President Donald Trump has remained stalled for about two years because of disputes over US-led sanctions on the North. President-elect Joe Biden, who is to take office on Jan. 20, has called Kim a “thug” and is unlikely to hold any direct meeting with him unless North Korea takes serious steps toward denuclearisation.Ties between the Koreas once flourished after Kim entered talks with Trump. But Pyongyang halted exchanges with Seoul and resumed harsh rhetoric against it after Kim’s second summit with Trump in Vietnam in early 2019 collapsed over Trump’s rebuttal of Kim’s push for sweeping sanctions relief in return for a limited denuclearization step.Some observers say North Korea is frustrated because Seoul has failed to break away from Washington and revive stalled joint economic projects held back by the US-led sanctions. They also speculate North Korea initially thought South Korea would help it win sanctions relief but got upset after Kim returned home empty-handed from the 2019 summit with Trump.Experts say North Korea may reach out South Korea first to promote reconciliation mood before pushing for talks with the Biden administration. The stalled Kim-Trump diplomacy began after South Korean officials met Kim in early 2018 and conveyed to Washington his intent to deal away his nuclear programme in exchange of economic and political benefits.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/north-korea-s-kim-jong-un-vows-to-improve-ties-with-outside-world-at-party-meeting/story-T89cQklGOprntVC74cSs7H.html
08-01-2021||World||US sets new record with nearly 4,000 Covid-19 deaths in one day||The United States counted a record number of daily coronavirus deaths Thursday at nearly 4,000, according to data from Johns Hopkins University. The 3,998 deaths were recorded over the 24 hour period ending at 8:30 pm local time (0130 GMT Friday), during which the US notched 265,246 new infections, according to the university.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-sets-new-record-with-nearly-4-000-covid-19-deaths-in-one-day/story-Yxf5CTYCwtRKcyhfbypbZP.html
08-01-2021||World||Hurt feelings, anger linger after Mike Pence, Donald Trump clash||They were never a natural fit, the straight-laced evangelical and the brash reality TV star. But for more than four years, President Donald Trump and Vice President Mike Pence made their marriage of political convenience work.Now, in the last days of their administration, each is feeling betrayed by the other. It’s part of the fallout from an extraordinary 24-hour stretch in which Pence openly defied Trump, Trump unleashed his fury on the vice president, and a mob of violent supporters incensed by Trump’s rhetoric stormed the Capitol building and tried to halt the peaceful transfer of power.The Trump-Pence relationship is “pretty raw right now,” said one top GOP congressional aide, who described multiple phone calls in which Trump berated Pence and tried to pressure the vice president to use powers he does not possess to try to overturn the results of the 2020 election. Pence, for his part, was left feeling “hurt” and “upset” by the episode, according to people close to him. They spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss internal matters.Also Read | ‘Heinous attack left me outraged’: Trump condemns Capitol violence, concedes defeatPence’s decision to publicly defy Trump was a first for the notoriously deferential vice president, who has been unflinchingly loyal to Trump since joining the GOP ticket in 2016. Pence has spent his tenure defending the president’s actions, trying to soothe anxious world leaders put off by Trump’s caustic rhetoric, and carefully avoiding the president’s ire.He has taken on some of the administration’s most high-pressure projects, including leading its response to the coronavirus. And he has stood by Trump even as the president leveled baseless allegations of voter fraud and refused to concede the election after his loss to Democrat Joe Biden.Under normal circumstances, the vote-tallying procedure that began on Wednesday would have been a mere formality. But after losing court case after court case, and with no further options at hand, Trump and his allies zeroed in on the congressional tally as their last chance to try to challenge the race’s outcome.In a bizarre interpretation of the law, they argued that the vice president had the unilateral power to reject Electoral College votes supporting Biden. The Constitution makes clear that only Congress has that power.The effort effectively turned Pence into a scapegoat who could be blamed for Trump’s loss if the vice president refused to go along with the plan. Trump and his lawyers spent days engaged in an aggressive pressure campaign to force Pence to bend to their will in a series of phone calls and in-person meetings, including one that stretched for hours on Tuesday.When Pence, who consulted with his own legal team, constitutional scholars and the Senate parliamentarian, informed Trump on Wednesday morning that he would not be going along with the effort, the president “blew a gasket,” in the words of one person briefed on the conversation.Not long after, Trump took the stage in front of thousands of his supporters at a “Stop the Steal” rally, where he urged them to march to the Capitol and continued to fan false hopes that Pence could change the outcome.“If Mike Pence does the right thing we win the election,” Trump wrongly insisted. He repeatedly returned to Pence throughout his speech as he tried to pressure the vice president to fall in line.But Trump already knew what Pence intended. And as Trump spoke, Pence released a letter to Congress laying out his conclusion that a vice president cannot claim “unilateral authority” to reject states’ electoral votes. He soon gaveled into order the joint session of Congress where his and Trump’s defeat would be cemented.Not long after that, members of Trump’s rally crowd arrived at the Capitol, where they overwhelmed police, smashed windows, occupied the building and halted the electoral proceedings. Pence was whisked from the Senate chamber to a secure location, where he was held for hours with staff as well as his wife and daughter, who had been there to support him.Trump did not call to check in on his vice president’s safety during the ordeal and instead spent much of Wednesday consumed with anger over Pence’s action, tweeting, “Mike Pence didn’t have the courage to do what should have been done to protect our Country and our Constitution.”Later, members of the mob outside the Capitol were captured on video chanting, “Hang Mike Pence!”For allies of Pence, it was a deeply upsetting episode that put the vice president in danger after four years of unstinting loyalty to the president and left Pence himself feeling hurt.“I just think he’s had enough,” said John Thompson, who served as Pence’s campaign spokesman and and also worked for the Republican Governors’ Association.“Yesterday just really pulled on his heartstrings,” Thompson said. “He’s been this loyal individual and the president was asking him to break the law and act outside his constitutional duties. I think it just reached a boiling point and the vice president said, ‘I’ve had enough.’”Republican Sen. Jim Inhofe of Oklahoma told Tulsa World, “I’ve never seen Pence as angry as he was today.”“He said, ‘After all the things I’ve done for (Trump),’” Inhofe added.Former House Speaker Newt Gingrich, an informal Trump adviser, also came to Pence’s defense, tweeting that his action was “a profile in courage.”It remains unclear how the dynamic between Trump and Pence will play out over the next two weeks and how long the president will hold his grudge. The White House declined to discuss Trump’s thinking, but allies said Pence intends to spend the next two weeks focused on the transition.He is also expected to attend Biden’s inauguration.And while Pence had been banking on his close relationship with the president to propel him to top-tier status if he decides to run for president in 2024, allies said they didn’t think the vice president’s actions this week would have long-term consequences, even if some voters blame him for Trump’s defeat.“I thought that was a very courageous moment for him,” Thompson said. “And I think that’s going to help his future.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/hurt-feelings-anger-linger-after-mike-pence-donald-trump-clash/story-Xc0I44WA5d7A4wdZO8kirO.html
08-01-2021||World||Boeing will pay USD 2.5 billion to settle charge over 737 Max||Boeing will pay USD 2.5 billion to settle a Justice Department investigation and admit that employees misled regulators about the safety of its 737 Max aircraft, which suffered two deadly crashes shortly after entering airline service.The government and the company said Thursday that the settlement includes money for the crash victims’ families, airline customers and a fine.Prosecutors said Boeing employees gave misleading statements and half-truths about safety issues with the plane to the Federal Aviation Administration, then covered up their actions.“Boeing’s employees chose the path of profit over candor,” said David Burns, acting assistant attorney general for the Justice Department’s criminal division.Boeing blamed two former pilots who helped determine how much training was needed for the Max. CEO David Calhoun said their conduct doesn’t reflect Boeing employees as a whole or the character of the company.“This is a substantial settlement of a very serious matter, and I firmly believe that entering into this resolution is the right thing for us to do — a step that appropriately acknowledges how we fell short of our values and expectations,” Calhoun said in a memo to employees.The government will drop the criminal charge of conspiracy to defraud the US after three years if Boeing follows the terms of the settlement.The settlement removes uncertainty about criminal charges against the iconic US aircraft maker, which is struggling to put the Max crisis behind it. Boeing still faces lawsuits by the families of passengers who died in the crashes, it has lost more than 1,000 orders for the Max, and its once-stellar reputation for engineering has suffered.Boeing began working on the Max in 2011 as an answer to a new, more fuel-efficient model from European rival Airbus. Boeing admitted in court filings that two of its technical pilot experts deceived the FAA about a flight-control system called the Maneuvering Characteristics Augmentation System, or MCAS, that could point a plane’s nose down if sensors indicated the plane might be in danger of an aerodynamic stall — that it might fall from the sky.The system was not part of previous 737 models. MCAS was added because the Max’s larger engines, which are mounted higher and farther forward on the 737’s low-swept wings, gave the plane a tendency to tilt too far nose-up in some conditions.Boeing downplayed the significance of MCAS and didn’t mention it in airplane manuals. Most pilots didn’t know about it.The first airlines began flying the 737 Max in mid-2017. On Oct 29, 2018, a Max operated by Indonesia’s Lion Air plunged into the Java Sea. The FAA let the Max keep flying, and on March 10, 2019, another Max operated by Ethiopian Airlines crashed nearly straight down into a field. In all, 346 people were killed.On both flights, MCAS was activated by a faulty reading from a single sensor. The system repeatedly pushed the planes’ noses down, and pilots were unable to regain control.After the planes were grounded worldwide, Boeing changed MCAS so that it always uses two sensors, along with other changes to make the automated system less powerful and easier for pilots to override. The FAA ordered other changes, including the rerouting of some wiring to avoid potential dangerous short-circuiting.In November, the FAA approved Boeing’s changes, and several carriers including American Airlines have resumed using the planes.Under the settlement announced Thursday, Boeing will pay a USD 243.6 million fine, USD 1.77 billion in compensation to airlines that were unable to use their Max jets while they were grounded, and USD 500 million into a fund for the families of passengers who were killed in the crashes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/boeing-will-pay-usd-2-5-billion-to-settle-charge-over-737-max/story-kx2orx7z0GLY5CSv7hR5zI.html
08-01-2021||World||‘Will ensure smooth transition of power’: Trump concedes defeat, condemns Capitol violence||With 13 days left in his term, President Donald Trump finally bent to reality on Thursday amid growing talk of trying to force him out early, acknowledging he’ll peacefully leave after Congress affirmed his defeat.Trump led off a video from the White House by condemning the violence carried out in his name a day earlier at the Capitol. Then, for the first time, he admitted that his presidency would soon end — though he declined to mention President-elect Joe Biden by name or explicitly state that he had lost.“A new administration will be inaugurated on Jan. 20,” Trump said in the video. “My focus now turns to ensuring a smooth, orderly and seamless transition of power. This moment calls for healing and reconciliation.”Also Read | Capitol police chief quits after pro-Trump mob overruns buildingThe address, which appeared designed to stave off talk of a forced early eviction, came at the end of a day when the cornered president stayed out of sight in the White House. Silenced on some of his favorite internet lines of communication, he watched the resignations of several top aides, including a Cabinet secretary.And as officials sifted through the aftermath of the pro-Trump mob’s siege of the US Capitol, there was growing discussion of impeaching him a second time or invoking the 25th Amendment to oust him from the Oval Office.The invasion of the Capitol building, a powerful symbol of the nation’s democracy, rattled Republicans and Democrats alike. They struggled with how best to contain the impulses of a president deemed too dangerous to control his own social media accounts but who remains commander in chief of the world’s greatest military.“I’m not worried about the next election, I’m worried about getting through the next 14 days,” said Republican Sen. Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, one of Trump’s staunchest allies. He condemned the president’s role in Wednesday’s riots and said, “If something else happens, all options would be on the table.”Also Read | Trump condemns violence at US Capitol ‘in strongest possible terms’: SpokeswomanDemocratic House Speaker Nancy Pelosi declared that “the president of the United States incited an armed insurrection against America.” She called him “a very dangerous person who should not continue in office. This is urgent, an emergency of the highest magnitude.”Neither option to remove Trump seemed likely, with little time left in his term to draft the Cabinet members needed to invoke the amendment or to organize the hearings and trial mandated for an impeachment. But the fact that the dramatic options were even the subject of discussion in Washington’s corridors of power served as a warning to Trump.Fears of what a desperate president could do in his final days spread in the nation’s capital and beyond, including speculation Trump could incite more violence, make rash appointments, issue ill-conceived pardons — including for himself and his family — or even trigger a destabilizing international incident.The president’s video Thursday — which was released upon his return to Twitter after his account was restored — was a complete reversal from the one he put out just 24 hours earlier in which he said to the violent mob, “We love you. You’re very special.” His refusal to condemn the violence sparked a firestorm of criticism and, in the new video, he at last denounced the demonstrators’ “lawlessness and mayhem.”As for his feelings on leaving office, he told the nation that “serving as your president has been the honor of my lifetime” while hinting at a return to the public arena. He told supporters “that our incredible journey is only just beginning.”Just a day earlier, Trump unleashed the destructive forces at the Capitol with his baseless claims of election fraud at a rally that prompted supporters to disrupt the congressional certification of Biden’s victory. After the storming of the Capitol and the eventual wee-hours certification of Biden’s win by members of Congress, Trump released a statement that merely acknowledged he would abide by a peaceful transfer of power on Jan. 20.The statement was posted by an aide and did not originate from the president’s own Twitter account, which has 88 million followers and for four years has been wielded as a political weapon that dictates policy and sows division and conspiracy.Trump couldn’t tweet it himself because, for the first time, the social media platform suspended his account, stating that the president had violated its rules of service by inciting violence. Facebook adopted a broader ban, saying Trump’s account would be offline until after Biden’s inauguration.Deprived of that social media lifeblood, Trump remained silent and ensconced in the executive mansion until Thursday evening. But around him, loyalists headed for the exits, their departures — which were coming in two weeks anyway — moved up to protest the president’s handling of the riot.Transportation Secretary Elaine Chao became the first Cabinet member to resign. Chao, married to Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, one of the lawmakers trapped at the Capitol on Wednesday, said in a message to staff that the attack “has deeply troubled me in a way that I simply cannot set aside.”Others who resigned in the wake of the riot: Deputy National Security Advisor Matthew Pottinger, Ryan Tully, senior director for European and Russian affairs at the National Security Council, and first lady Melania Trump’s chief of staff Stephanie Grisham, a former White House press secretary.Mick Mulvaney, Trump’s former chief of staff-turned-special envoy to Northern Ireland, told CNBC that he had called Secretary of State Mike Pompeo “to let him know I was resigning. ... I can’t do it. I can’t stay.”And Mulvaney said that others who work for Trump had decided to remain in their posts in an effort to provide some sort of guardrails for the president during his final days in office.“Those who choose to stay, and I have talked with some of them, are choosing to stay because they’re worried the president might put someone worse in,” Mulvaney said.Mulvaney’s predecessor in the chief of staff job, retired US Marine Corps general John Kelly, told CNN that “I think the Cabinet should meet and have a discussion” about Section 4 of the 25th Amendment — allowing the forceful removal of Trump by his own Cabinet.Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer joined Pelosi in declaring that Trump “should not hold office one day longer” and urged Vice President Mike Pence and the Cabinet to act. But Chao’s departure may stall nascent efforts to invoke the amendment.Staff-level discussions on the matter took place across multiple departments and even in parts of the White House, according to two people briefed on the talks. But no member of the Cabinet has publicly expressed support for the move — which would make Pence the acting president — though several were believed to be sympathetic to the notion, believing Trump is too volatile in his waning days in office.In the West Wing, shell-shocked aides were packing up, acting on a delayed directive to begin offboarding their posts ahead of the Biden team’s arrival. The slowdown before now was due to Trump’s single-minded focus on his defeat since Election Day at the expense of the other responsibilities of his office.Most glaringly, that included the fight against the raging coronavirus that is killing record numbers of Americans each day.Few aides had any sense of the president’s plans, with some wondering if Trump would largely remain out of sight until he left the White House. White House press secretary Kayleigh McEnany read a brief statement in which she declared that the Capitol siege was “appalling, reprehensible and antithetical to the American way.”But her words carried little weight. Trump has long made clear that only he speaks for his presidency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-condemns-capitol-violence-says-the-heinous-attack-left-him-outraged/story-jkVomvi1dlfdg2RKNKwuOP.html
08-01-2021||World||Moderna CEO says vaccine likely to protect for ‘couple of years’||Moderna’s Covid-19 mRNA vaccine is likely to offer protection of up to a couple of years, its chief executive said on Thursday, even though more data is still needed to make a definitive assessment.The US biotech company, which stunned the world last year by coming up with a vaccine against the disease caused by the new coronavirus in just a few weeks, received approval for its shot from the European Commission on Wednesday.Also Read: Covid vaccine dry run conducted under WHO watchGiven vaccines development and pharmacovigilance usually requires years, the protection duration of Covid-19 shots is a lingering question for scientists and regulators.“The nightmare scenario that was described in the media in the spring with a vaccine only working a month or two is, I think, out of the window,” Moderna CEO Stephane Bancel said at an event organised by financial services group Oddo BHF.“The antibody decay generated by the vaccine in humans goes down very slowly (...) We believe there will be protection potentially for a couple of years.”Also Read: 2nd nationwide vaccine dry run in 33 states, UTs todayBancel added his company was about to prove that its vaccine would also be effective against variants of the coronavirus seen in Britain and South Africa.Scientists have said newly developed vaccines should be equally effective against both variants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/moderna-ceo-says-vaccine-likely-to-protect-for-couple-of-years/story-QlVqgHDbU32QGff7zEruHL.html
08-01-2021||World||‘Nothing will stop us...’: Woman had tweeted before being shot dead in US Capitol||The woman who was fatally shot as Donald Trump’s backers stormed the US Capitol Wednesday was a Ashli Babbitt, a “strong supporter” of the president who had served in the United States Air Force, according to press reports. Violence erupted in the normally solemn home of the US legislature after hundreds of protesters seeking to overturn Trump’s election loss swarmed the building in Washington.“The woman is Ashli Babbitt, a 14-year veteran, who served four tours with the US Air Force,” San Diego TV station KUSI reported, citing the woman’s husband.“She was a strong supporter of President Trump,” the report added, saying the woman was from the San Diego area in southern California.Washington police confirmed a death, but have not identified the deceased nor offered details on the circumstances of the shooting, which is now under investigation.She was shot amid chaotic and violent scenes inside the Capitol building, where some security personnel drew their guns as protesters advanced.She died shortly after being wounded, Washington police said without elaborating.TV channel Fox 5 reported Babbitt owned a business in San Diego with her husband, who did not come with her to Washington.“I really don’t know why she decided to do this,” her mother-in-law reportedly told the station.Babbitt identified herself as a veteran on her Twitter account and noted her love for the US. She had recently retweeted messages in support of Trump and from those coming to Washington for Wednesday’s rally.“Nothing will stop us....they can try and try and try but the storm is here and it is descending upon DC in less than 24 hours....dark to light!”, she wrote in a tweet on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/nothing-will-stop-us-woman-had-tweeted-before-being-shot-dead-in-us-capitol/story-6gKZ9wLZ1hI1INmZdcyNUL.html
08-01-2021||World||Capitol police chief quits after pro-Trump mob overruns building||The chief of the police department charged with protecting the US Capitol has resigned, a day after a mob of Trump supporters laid siege to the building while lawmakers were inside voting to certify the election of Joe Biden as president.US Capitol Police Chief Steven A Sund’s last day will be Jan. 16, according to a department official.The resignation follows calls for his dismissal earlier Thursday by House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, and criticism from Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell and other lawmakers who were enraged after his force failed to thwart the Wednesday afternoon assault.Also Read | Trump condemns violence at US Capitol ‘in strongest possible terms’: SpokeswomanThrongs of Trump supporters broke through police lines and charged into the Capitol, ransacking parts of the building. One of them was shot and killed outside the House chamber.Order was restored in the evening and both houses of Congress resumed the ratification of Electoral College votes from the Nov. 3 election that President Donald Trump lost.Sund had defended his agency, which reports to Congress, saying in a statement Thursday that its actions were “heroic” and that it had “a robust plan” to deal with expected demonstrations.Sund, who was sworn in as the force’s 10th police chief in 2019, joined the Capitol Police department in 2017 after more than 25 years with the District of Columbia’s Metropolitan Police Department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/capitol-police-chief-quits-after-pro-trump-mob-overruns-building/story-xLBENJA4JP2xLpV3VcdeAM.html
08-01-2021||World||Facebook, Twitter shut down Prez||All it took for Twitter and Facebook to temporarily bar US President Donald Trump from addressing his audience was a violent insurrection at the US Capitol, fuelled by years of false statements.On Wednesday, the two companies temporarily suspended Trump from posting on their platforms after a mob of his supporters stormed the Congress. It was the most aggressive action either company has yet taken against the outgoing US president. Twitter locked Trump out of his account for 12 hours and said that future violations could result in a permanent suspension. The company required the removal of three of Trump’s tweets, including a short video in which he urged those supporters to “go home” while also repeating falsehoods about the integrity of the election. Trump’s account has deleted those posts.Facebook and Instagram will extend a ban on Trump’s accounts, chief executive officer Mark Zuckerberg said, saying risk of his posts is “too great”. Zuckerberg said the ban will last “for at least the next two weeks” but could remain locked indefinitely.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/facebook-twitter-shut-down-prez/story-I3QgRg9FnT8kFCq77IkugM.html
08-01-2021||World||‘Banana republic’: Shock, dismay for ex-presidents||Every living former US president on Wednesday denounced the violence of a mob that stormed the Capitol building in Washington, DC.George W Bush called out fellow Republicans for fuelling an “insurrection”, likening the situation to a “banana republic”.“I am appalled by the reckless behaviour of some political leaders since the election and by the lack of respect shown today for our institutions, our traditions and our law enforcement,” Bush’s statement said. Barack Obama also blamed Republicans and Donald Trump, “who has continued to baselessly lie about the outcome of a lawful election”, he said in a statement. Trump’s most recent predecessor called the incident “a moment of great dishonour and shame for our nation”. “But we’d be kidding ourselves if we treated it as a total surprise,” Obama said, calling the events of the day “the consequences” of Trump and his supporters refusing to accept the results of last year’s election. Bill Clinton denounced the riot as “unprecedented assault” on the US Capitol and the nation itself. “Today we faced an unprecedented assault on our Capitol, our Constitution, our country,” the Democratic former president said. “The match was lit by Donald Trump and his most ardent enablers, including many in Congress, to overturn the results of an election he lost.”And the oldest member of the exclusive club, 96-year-old Democrat Jimmy Carter, said he was “troubled” by Wednesday’s scenes, which he called a “national tragedy”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/banana-republic-shock-dismay-for-ex-presidents/story-yapZlItxFjTygOOCSn16pO.html
08-01-2021||World||Cabinet could remove Trump before term-end||The storming of the US Capitol by supporters of President Donald Trump on Wednesday has prompted calls by several lawmakers to remove him from office before President-elect Joe Biden is sworn in on January 20.US Senate Democratic leader Chuck Schumer on Thursday called on Vice-President Mike Pence to invoke the 25th Amendment to the US Constitution to immediately remove Trump from office, saying that if he does not act, Congress should impeach the President. “What happened at the US Capitol yesterday was an insurrection against the United States, incited by the President,” Schumer said. “If the vice president and the Cabinet refuse to stand up, Congress should reconvene to impeach the president,” he added. A source said there have been some preliminary discussions among some Cabinet members and Trump allies about invoking the 25th Amendment. Democratic lawmakers also circulated articles of impeachment, Representative David Cicilline said. “I am circulating Articles of Impeachment that @RepTedLieu, @RepRaskin and I have prepared to remove the President from office following yesterday’s attack on the U.S. Capitol,” Cicilline said on Twitter.There are two ways to remove a president from office: the 25th Amendment of the US Constitution and impeachment followed by a Senate conviction. In either scenario, Vice-President Pence would take over until Biden’s inauguration. For the Amendment to be invoked, Pence and the majority of Trump’s Cabinet would need to declare that Trump is unable to perform the duties of the presidency and remove him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/cabinet-could-remove-trump-before-term-end/story-i8iJqDD3gyqYq3xEaRvtMI.html
08-01-2021||World||Ignited state of America||US Congress certified President-elect Joe Biden’s election victory in the early on Thursday morning, hours after it was stormed, assaulted, and occupied by supporters incited by President Donald Trump’s false and baseless claims of poll fraud, in a shocking attack on democracy that has been described as an insurrection and was watched with horror around the world.Vice-President Mike Pence, who presided over the joint session of congress to certify the election, declared Biden had won the electoral college at 3:41am (2.11pm IST), bringing down the curtain on his boss’s flagrant disregard of democratic norms. Trump, whose Facebook, Instagram and Twitter accounts were suspended, issued a statement shortly after through a White House social media account, saying, “Even though I totally disagree with the outcome of the election, and the facts bear me out, nevertheless there will be an orderly transition on January 20th.” It took the outgoing president more than 60 days to concede defeat in the November 2020 presidential election, during which time he and his allies filed and lost more than 60 lawsuits, sought and lost many full and partial recounts, denied Biden’s team routine transition access, and, finally, incited a most shocking assault on American democracy, breaching the home of US Congress for the first time since 1812, when it was attacked by the British during a war.Lawmakers returned to the session escorted by heavily armed security personnel from a mélange of agencies, some armed with long guns, late Wednesday evening to resume the largely ritualistic constitutional process to grant Biden’s victory one final affirmation, that had been suddenly interrupted by Trump’s marauding supporters who had forced their way into the Capitol, overpowering security personnel by their sheer numbers. They reached deep inside the building, forced lawmakers to shelter in place under desks and in rooms. Many of them broke furniture to use them as clubs to protect themselves against the rioters.One woman was killed in clashes that broke out between the insurrectionists and security personnel, and three people died of medical emergencies on the Capitol grounds, several people were injured, including law enforcement personnel, and dozens were taken into custody.The rioters had been driven out of the building by late evening.But even though a nighttime curfew came into effect at 6pm, the mobs, though thinned down, continued to loiter menacingly around the complex, hurling invectives at police.“To storm the Capitol, to smash windows, to occupy offices, and to threaten the safety of duly elected officials is not protest,” President-elect Biden said in remarks to the nation,as the horrifying assault unfolded on live TV coverage around the world. “It is insurrection. The world is watching — and like so many other Americans, I am shocked and saddened that our nation, so long a beacon of light, hope, and democracy has come to such a dark moment.” Former President George W Bush, a Republican, also decried the mob action as an “insurrection”, as did other leading Republicans such as Senate majority leader Mitch McConnell and Senator Mitt Romney, also a 2012 presidential nominee.Calls began to be raised shortly for Trump to be impeached, even if there were just two more weeks left of his term, or be removed from office under the 25th Amendment of US Constitution, which empowers the federal cabinet to sideline the president finding him unfit to govern.Leading legal experts such as Lawrence Tribe, a Harvard law professor, told CNN that Trump had “engaged in inciting sedition”.The world watched, and reacted, with horror. “Distressed to see news about rioting and violence in Washington DC. Orderly and peaceful transfer of power must continue. The democratic process cannot be allowed to be subverted through unlawful protests,” said Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “Disgraceful scenes in US Congress. The United States stands for democracy around the world and it is now vital that there should be a peaceful and orderly transfer of power,” UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson, a close Trump ally, wrote in a tweet.Similar statements of shock and outrage flowed from capitals of other US allies and partners.The rioters had marched to the Capitol from a rally nearby where Trump railed against his election defeat, attributing it, once again without proof, to fraud and cheating. And then he called on them to march on the Capitol, promising to walk with them.“We’re going to walk down to the Capitol, and we’re going to cheer on our brave senators and congressmen and women,” Trump told his cheering supporters, referring to the certification process. “And we’re probably not going to be cheering, so much for some of them because you’re never going to take back our country with weakness, you have to show strength and you have to be strong.”Trump was seething at the time. Pence had just told him, according to reports, that he will not overturn Biden’s election during the certification process. In a statement that was issued just as he reached Congress, the Vice-President said: “It is my considered judgment that my oath to support and defend the Constitution constrains me from claiming unilateral authority to determine which electoral votes should be counted and which should not.” Trump still kept calling for Pence to come through, and then he sent off the mob, whipped up and angry by false claims that he was robbed of his re-election.But he did not accompany them, as he promised. He went back to the White House to watch the mayhem he unleashed on TV. The President seemed pleased by the what he saw, reportedly, and ignored repeated pleas by aides to condemn the assault and called off his supporters.Men and women carrying Trump’s campaign flags, a flag of the confederacy -- which fought to continue slavery but lost — and the national flag, roamed the corridors of the Capitol at will, entering rooms and chambers not open to outsiders.They made it to the well of the senate and one of them posed for pictures siting in the senate President’s seat, which was occupied by Vice-President Pence just a while ago. Another man went into Speaker Nancy Pelosi’s office, sat in her chair and posed for pictures with his feet up on her desk. One of them left a note for her: “We will not back down”.US Congress had just started a joint session at the time to certify Biden’s election victory. And the two chambers had broken up to debate, separately under the rules, the first of the several objections Trump’s allies in Congress had planned to raise against the certification.They were soon sheltering in place as rioters took over the capital, forcing back Capitol police, some of whom, curiously, posed for selfies with the rioters.The process resumed later in the evening after the complex had been cleared of Trump’s supporters.“To those who wreaked havoc in our Capitol today, you did not win. Violence never wins. Freedom wins. And this is still the people’s house,” Pence said resuming Congress’s joint session. Though shocked and outraged, leaders of both parties resolved to put forth a joint front to demonstrate they would not be intimidated and resumed the certification process later in the evening. Many Republican dropped their plans to object to the certification, and others just plain said it was time to move on.As news of the insurrection spread, calls were issued for Trump, as the instigator and inciter, to intervene and call off his supporters. He ignored them for a while, and then responded with an insipid tweet saying: “Stay peaceful”. He posted another weak tweet, and then, after a public appeal from Biden to “step up”, Trump posted a long message with a video, in which he reiterated his claim that the election was stolen, appealed to the rioters to go home calling them patriots and saying he loved them.Several White House aides resigned in frustration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/ignited-state-of-america/story-eUZaKSacDSg76hXzCp5DwI.html
08-01-2021||World||Joe Biden blames Donald Trump for violence at Capitol that’s shaken US||President-elect Joe Biden on Thursday denounced the rioters who stormed the U.S. Capitol as “domestic terrorists” and he blamed President Donald Trump for the violence that has shaken the nation’s capital and beyond.The riot by Trump supporters who breached the security of Congress on Wednesday was “not dissent, was not disorder, was not protest. It was chaos.”Those who massed on Capitol Hill intending to disrupt a joint session of Congress that was certifying Biden’s election victory over Trump “weren’t protesters. Don’t dare call them protesters. They were a riotous mob — insurrectionists, domestic terrorists. It’s that basic,” Biden said.In solemn tones, Biden said the actions Trump has taken to subvert the nation’s democratic institutions throughout his presidency led directly to the mayhem in Washington.“In the past four years, we’ve had a president who’s made his contempt for our democracy, our Constitution, the rule of law clear in everything he has done,” Biden said. “He unleashed an all-out assault on our institutions of our democracy from the outset. And yesterday was the culmination of that unrelenting attack.”The mob of hundreds of Trump backers broke into the Capitol and roamed the halls looking for lawmakers, who were forced to halt their deliberations and seek safety. The violent protesters were egged on by Trump himself, who has falsely contended that he lost the election due to voter fraud.Trump’s claims were repeatedly dismissed in the courts, including the Supreme Court, and by state election officials from both parties, and even by some in his own administration. But the president went to greater and greater lengths to try to subvert the election, culminating this week in efforts by some Republican members of Congress to object to the certification of the results and the violence at the Capitol. After the disruption, Congress returned to work late Wednesday and affirmed Biden’s victory early Thursday.Biden ticked off a list of Trump’s assaults on American norms, including his attacks on the press and the intelligence community and his pressure on state and federal officials and judges to submit to his efforts to overturn the election. Biden said that on Wednesday, Trump tried to “use a mob to silence the voices of nearly 160 Americans” who voted in November.And both he and Vice President-elect Kamala Harris spoke about the police treatment of the largely white protesters on Wednesday, compared with the heavy-handed way in which police have handled Black Lives Matter protests.“We witnessed two systems of justice, when we saw one that let extremists storm the United States Capitol and another that released tear gas on peaceful protesters last summer,” Harris said.Biden declared that “no one can tell me that if it had been a group of Black Lives Matter protesting yesterday, they wouldn’t have been treated very, very differently than the mob of thugs that stormed the Capitol.”He expressed hope that images comparing the police presence Wednesday to that marshaled to prepare for Black Lives Matters protests would open Americans’ eyes to the needs for reform.The remarks came during an event in Wilmington, Delaware, to introduce Biden’s Justice Department team, to be led by federal appeals court judge Merrick Garland as attorney general. Biden also announced Obama administration homeland security adviser Lisa Monaco would serve as deputy attorney general and former Justice Department civil rights chief Vanita Gupta as associate attorney general, the No. 3 official. He also named an assistant attorney general for civil rights, Kristen Clarke, now the president of Lawyers’ Committee for Civil Rights Under Law, an advocacy group.The Justice Department is expected to dramatically change course during the Biden administration, with a greater focus on civil rights issues and a review of policing policies. Both Biden and Harris spoke Wednesday about the importance of an independent judiciary.Biden said some of the most important work for the nation remains “committing ourselves to the rule of law in this nation, invigorating our domestic and democratic institutions carrying out equal justice under law in America.”“There is no more important place for us to do this work than the Department of Justice,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/joe-biden-blames-donald-trump-for-violence-at-capitol-that-s-shaken-us/story-aSFU8IvQWEy72JCVWmrjjN.html
08-01-2021||World||Security failure led to rioters running amok||The chaos inside the US Capitol on Wednesday came after the police force that protects the legislative complex was overrun by a mob of Donald Trump’s supporters in what law enforcement officials called a catastrophic failure to prepare.The siege of the Capitol, home to both the US Senate and the House of Representatives, represents one of the gravest security lapses in recent US history, current and former law enforcement officials said.While events such as a presidential inauguration involve detailed security plans by numerous security agencies, far less planning went into protecting the joint session of Congress that convened on Wednesday to ratify the results of the 2020 presidential election, the officials said. That lapse came despite glaring warning signs of potential violence by hardline supporters of President Trump.Security initially was handled almost entirely alone by the US Capitol Police, a 2,000-member force under the control of Congress and dedicated to protecting the 126-acre Capitol grounds. For reasons that remained unclear, other arms of the US federal government’s vast security apparatus did not arrive in force for hours as rioters besieged the seat of Congress. The Capitol is a short walk from where Trump in a speech railed against the election just before the riot began.The counting of the electoral votes of the presidential election by Congress, normally a formality, was preceded by weeks of threats in social media that planned pro-Trump protests could descend into violence. Despite those rumblings of danger, the Capitol Police force did not request advance help to secure the building from other federal agencies such as the Department of Homeland Security, according to one senior official. National Guard reinforcements, summoned by the city’s mayor, were not mobilised until more than an hour after protesters first breached the barricades.In stark contrast, those agencies were aggressively deployed by the Trump administration during last summer’s police brutality protests across the US. Capitol Police officers to protect the complex like a citadel. But there are so many windows that it is difficult to defend them all.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/security-failure-led-to-rioters-running-amok/story-AnEbmHjx0aJPLod7vEqyGJ.html
08-01-2021||World||World leaders condemn clash at capitol, PM Modi says he’s distressed by it||World leaders and governments expressed shock and outrage at the storming of the US Capitol in Washington by supporters of President Donald Trump, with Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi urging orderly and peaceful transfer of power in the US.Modi said he was “distressed to see news about rioting and violence” in Washington, DC. “Orderly and peaceful transfer of power must continue. The democratic process cannot be allowed to be subverted through unlawful protests,” he tweeted.German Chancellor Angela Merkel said she was “furious and saddened” by the events and said Trump shared blame for the unrest. British Prime Minister Boris Johnson condemned the “disgraceful scenes in US Congress”.Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said the “rampage at the Capitol was a disgraceful act and it must be vigorously condemned.”European Union foreign policy chief Josep Borrell condemned an “assault on US democracy”, which “tonight appears under siege.”French President Emmanuel Macron said, “We will not give in to the violence of a few who want to question” democracy. “What happened today in Washington is not American”.Russian officials pointed to the storming of the US Capitol as evidence of America’s decline, with Konstantin Kosachyov, chairman of the Russian upper house’s foreign affairs committee, saying it showed US democracy was “limping on both feet”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/world-leaders-condemn-clash-at-capitol-pm-modi-says-he-s-distressed-by-it/story-oR9eUP5ZTzTNdf4vNZGbZM.html
08-01-2021||World||All the President’s men||“Where are they?” a Trump supporter demanded in a crowd of dozens roaming the halls of the Capitol, bearing Trump flags and pounding on doors.They - lawmakers, staff members and more - were hiding under tables, hunkered in lockdowns, saying prayers and seeing the fruits of the country’s divisions up close and violent.Guns were drawn. A woman was shot and killed by police, and three others died in apparent medical emergencies. A Trump flag hung on the Capitol. The graceful Rotunda reeked of tear gas. Glass shattered.On Wednesday, hallowed spaces of American democracy, one after another, yielded to the occupation of Congress. The pro-Trump mob took over the presiding officer’s chair in the Senate, the offices of the House speaker and the Senate dais, where one yelled, “Trump won that election.”They mocked its leaders, posing for photos in the office of House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, one with his feet propped on a desk in her office, another sitting in the same seat vice-president Mike Pence had occupied only moments before during the proceedings to certify the electoral college vote. That certification would eventually take place, but not until well after midnight.There was still a heavy police presence at the Capitol on Thursday. A large US flag flew from the presidential inaugural stand that a day earlier was damaged during the siege.Wednesday began as a day of reckoning for President Donald Trump’s futile attempt to cling to power as Congress took up the certification of President-elect Joe Biden’s victory. Trump told his morning crowd at the Ellipse near the White House that he would go with them to the Capitol, but he didn’t. Instead he sent them off with incendiary rhetoric. “If you don’t fight like hell, you’re not going to have a country anymore,” he said. Later, Trump, in a video posted 90 minutes after lawmakers had just been evacuated after the storming of the Capitol began, told the insurrectionists “We love you. You’re very special,” while asking them to go home.Authorities eventually regained control as night fell. Armed officers brought in as reinforcements started using tear gas in a coordinated effort to get people moving towards the door, then combed the halls for stragglers, pushing the mob farther out onto the plaza and lawn, in clouds of tear gas, flash bangs and percussion grenades.Video footage also showed officers letting people calmly walk out the doors of the Capitol despite the rioting. Only about a dozen arrests were made in the hours after authorities regained control. They said a woman was shot earlier as the mob tried to break through a barricaded door in the Capitol where police were armed on the other side. She was hospitalized with a gunshot wound and later died.Early on, some inside the Capitol saw the trouble coming outside the windows. Soon after, Trump supporters clashed with police who blasted pepper spray in an attempt to hold them back. It didn’t work. Throngs of MAGA-hatted demonstrators tore down metal barricades at the bottom of the Capitol’s steps. Later, police evacuated the chamber at 2.30pm. After making sure the hallways were clear, police escorted the members down a series of hallways and tunnels to a cafeteria. “This is how a coup is started,” Representative Jimmy Gomez later said. “This is how democracy dies.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/all-the-president-s-men/story-E7LWSqBFHJ3Jxy7tUhPPcI.html
08-01-2021||World||US Vice-President Mike Pence finally shuns his boss Donald Trump||US Vice-President Mike Pence finally came through, but not as directed by his boss, outgoing President Donald Trump.Pence withstood mounting pressure from Trump to reject US Congress’s certification of President-elect Joe Biden’s election victory, and early on Thursday declared the Democrat and his running mate Kamla Harris winners of the electoral college with 306 votes each, to 232 for Trump and himself, ending their term in office.“The whole number of electors appointed to vote for president of the US is 538, of which a majority is 270… Joseph R Biden, of the state of Delaware received for president of the US, 306 votes. Donald J Trump of the state of Florida has received 232. The announcement of the state of the vote by the president of the Senate shall be deemed a sufficient declaration of the persons elected president and vice-president of the United States. Each for the term beginning on the 20th day of January, 2021, and shall be entered together with the list of the votes on the journals of the Senate and the House of Representatives,” Pence said on early on Thursday, ending a day that will long be remembered for the infamy visited upon it by the outgoing president, who unleashed an attack on US Congress.Pence’s unquestioning public loyalty to Trump in the past even in the face of the president’s most egregious behaviour had been a cause for mounting concern as Trump, having gotten nowhere with lawsuits and vote recounts, came to pin on him his hopes of a second term despite having lost to Biden decisively in the electoral college and by more than 7 million popular votes.“If Vice-President @MikePence comes through for us, we will win the presidency,” Trump tweeted on Wednesday morning, just as he was heading out to address a “Save America March”, where he incited his supporters to march on to Congress. He tagged on one of his many false claims of poll fraud - “Many states want to decertify the mistake they made in certifying incorrect and even fraudulent numbers in a process NOT approved by their state legislatures (which it must be). Mike can send it back!”Mike couldn’t, Pence had told Trump in a meeting in the White house the day before, according to reports. The vice-president, who served many terms as member of the House of Representatives before becoming governor of Indiana state, his last job before Trump had asked him to join his ticket, is said to be acutely conscious and respectful of democratic norms. He told Trump it was not within his constitutional authority to reject Biden’s victory when presided over a joint session of the two chambers of Congress for the final stage in a presidential election, to certify the electoral college results.“It is my considered judgement that my oath to support and defend the constitution constrains me from claiming unilateral authority to determine which electoral votes should be counted and which should not,” Pence wrote in a statement that was circulated just minutes before he started the joint session. The New York Times reported Pence had reiterated the same argument in a conversation on Wednesday morning.Pence had not been as forthright in remarks in days before. He had sought to portray his views as aligned with the president’s even if did not go as far as to say what he will do. At an election rally in Georgia, the vice-president had said, “We’ve all got our doubts about the last election. I share the concerns of millions of Americans about voting irregularities.” Though he did add, wriggling out of a commitment, “we’ll have our day in Congress. We’ll hear the evidence.” He did not say what he will do with the evidence, which never qualified to be called that.Pence had planned to not overturn Biden’s election, and would probably have done so anyway. But did the outrage triggered by the storming of Congress by Trump’s supporters embolden him enough to go through with this resolve to defy the president openly and actually do it?||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-vice-president-mike-pence-finally-shuns-his-boss-donald-trump/story-YY9O9PITOnVr5trfmy3hAI.html
08-01-2021||World||Emergency in Tokyo as Covid cases surge||The Japanese government declared a month-long coronavirus state of emergency in the greater Tokyo area on Thursday as the capital reported another record surge in daily infections.Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga described a “great sense of crisis” as he announced the measure, which begins on Friday, but is less strict than the harsh lockdowns seen elsewhere or even the country’s first virus emergency last spring.It primarily targets restaurants and bars, which will be asked to stop serving alcohol by 7pm and close an hour later.Tokyo recorded 2,447 new cases on Thursday - shattering the previous record of 1,591 logged a day earlier, and representing a sizeable chunk of the 7,490 new cases reported nationwide. Still, Japan’s outbreak remains comparatively small, with around 3,700 Covid-19 deaths overall.Meanwhile, coronavirus cases in Europe surpassed 25 million on Thursday, according to a Reuters tally. Europe has recorded at least 25,016,506 cases and 559,863 deaths since the start of the pandemic, recently reporting over a million new cases about every four days. With just a tenth of the world’s population, Europe remains the worst-affected region, with nearly 30% of global cases and deaths.The World Health Organization’s European branch on Thursday said more needed to be done to deal with the alarming situation brought on by recently discovered variants of the novel coronavirus.Speaking at a press conference, the WHO’s regional director for Europe Hans Kluge, called the current situation “a tipping-point in the course of the pandemic,” as Europe was both challenged by surging cases and new strains of the virus causing Covid-19. “Without increased control to slow its spread, there will be an increased impact on already stressed and pressurised health facilities,” Kluge said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/emergency-in-tokyo-as-covid-cases-surge/story-mYv1EPMSqMP1vWjZvkUszO.html
08-01-2021||World||It’s official now: US Congress certifies Joe Biden’s election victory||Escorted back to their chambers by heavily armed security personnel, US lawmakers took their seats late on Wednesday evening, looking grim but determined to finish their task: and they did. At around 3.41am on Thursday, US Congress certified President-elect Joe Biden’s election victory.All Democrats and most Republicans voted to reject two objections raised by Republican allies of outgoing President Donald Trump - electoral college results reported by Arizona and Pennsylvania, two of the seven key states that caused the president’s defeat. Some Republicans who had planned to object announced they had changed their minds.“When I arrived in Washington this morning, I fully intended to object to the certification of the electoral votes,” said Senator Kelly Loeffler, a Republican. “However, the events that have transpired today have forced me to reconsider and I cannot now, in good conscience, object.” Loeffler and David Perdue, both incumbent Republican senators from the state of Georgia, lost to their Democratic rivals Raphael Warnock and Jon Ossoff, which transferred control of the Senate to Democrats.“Trump and I’ve had a hell of a journey,” said Senator Lindsey Graham, a close Republican ally of Trump. “I hate it being this way. Oh my god! I hate it... but today, all I can say is, count me out. Enough is enough. I tried to be helpful.”The objection to Arizona was defeated in a 303- 121 vote in Democratic-controlled House of Representatives and by 93- 6 in the Republican-controlled Senate, which was a stinging rebuke of the president and his Republican backers. And the objection to the certification of the Pennsylvania result was defeated 282-138 in the House and 92-7 in the Senate.Most Republicans had been opposed to the objections, calling them an unconstitutional overreach, as an attempt to replace people’s right to elect with the will of the Congress. “The constitution gives Congress a limited role. We cannot simply declare ourselves a national board of elections on steroids,” Senate majority leader Mitch McConnell had said in remarks in the chamber when it broke from the joint session to discuss the Arizona objection, before the rioters broke in. “The voters, the courts, and the states have all spoken. If we overrule them all, it would damage our republic forever.”McConnell had set the tone for Republican lawmakers after they had reconvened. “The United States Senate will not be intimidated. We will not be kept out of this chamber by thugs, mobs… We will not bow to lawlessness or intimidation. We are back in our posts. We will discharge our duty under the constitution. Of our nation. And we’re going to do it tonight.”House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, a Democrat, tweeted, “Today’s shameful assault on our democracy - anointed at the highest level of government - must not deter us from our responsibility to the constitution. Tonight, we will move forward with the certification of President-elect Joe Biden’s election.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/it-s-official-now-us-congress-certifies-joe-biden-s-election-victory/story-IuyrSvQ8HGJVxjcTJU0dpL.html
08-01-2021||World||Nirav Modi’s depression, suicide risk raised in court to block extradition to India||Diamantaire Nirav Modi’s defence team on Thursday alleged that the Arthur Road jail in Mumbai did not have arrangements or plans to deal with his mental health issues, including risk of suicide, and urged the Westminster Magistrates’ Court to dismiss India’s extradition request.Modi’s lawyer, Claire Montgomery, also alleged that Modi would not receive a fair trial if extradited, and cited reported statements by Indian ministers and two former judges who deposed in the case, Abhay Thipsay and Markandey Katju.Mental health and risk of suicide were the main grounds on which the court earlier this week blocked the extradition of WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange to the United States, where he is wanted to face charges of leaking classified information.The first day or the two-day hearing on concluding arguments in the Modi case was focused on issues of mental health and fair trial. The issue whether a prima facie case exists against him will be the focus on Friday, with a judgment expected in weeks.Helen Malcolm of the Crown Prosecution Service representing India said the court could ask the government of India for a fresh assurance on facilities for mental health treatment in Barrack number 12 of the Mumbai jail. According to Montgomery, the court was not obliged to ask for such an assurance after a certain time limit.Malcolm did not see equivalence between the Assange and Modi cases, as claimed by Montgomery, since the former reportedly suffers from Asperger’s Syndrome and depression. She also denied that there was any plan to keep Modi in solitary confinement in the Arthur Road jail, as claimed.Besides medical facilities available in the jail, Malcolm reminded the court that India had submitted details of at least three hospitals nearby where he could be treated. He would also be able to seek private treatment of his choice, she added.According to Malcolm, there is no difference between Modi’s case and that of businessman Vijay Mallya; the court had recommended Mallya’s extradition in December 2018. She also refuted claims that India’s judiciary is not independent or that Modi would not receive a fair trial if extradited.Montgomery said the government of India had submitted an “utterly worthless” assurance that Modi would have access to necessary medical facilities. Judge Samuel Goozee heard both sides and concluded against that the government of India had “ample opportunities” to respond to concerns previously raised by a medical doctor who had examined Modi. Modi, 49, who is lodged in the Wandsworth prison in west London and attended the hearing remotely, wearing a jacket and sporting a beard, is the subject of two extradition requests; one processed by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and the other by the Enforcement Directorate (ED).Charges against Modi involve PNB’s Mumbai branch that extended his companies loans worth over Rs 11,300 crore. The CBI case relates to large-scale fraud upon PNB, through the fraudulent obtaining of Letters of Understanding (LOUs/loan agreements) - the ED case relates to the laundering of the proceeds of that fraud.The second extradition request was made on the basis of two additional offences as part of the CBI case, relating to allegations that Modi interfered with the CBI investigation by “causing disappearance of evidence” and intimidating witnesses (”criminal intimidation to cause death”).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/nirav-modi-s-depression-suicide-risk-raised-in-court-to-block-extradition-to-india/story-4Yd4QHQYqWz8pbT5QP2kgK.html
08-01-2021||World||Covid-19: UK trial finds 2 more drugs reduce deaths, ICU stay||Two widely available drugs typically used to treat rheumatoid arthritis – tocilizumab and sarilumab – reduce the risk of death from Covid-19 by 24% and reduce stay in the intensive care unit by up to 10 days, results from a UK government-backed trial published on Thursday show.Most of the data came from the REMAP-CAP trial when the drugs were administered in addition to a corticosteroid, such as dexamethasone, which was discovered in June 2020 through the RECOVERY clinical trial, which is already provided as standard of care to patients in the National Health Service (NHS).The Department of Health said patients receiving these drugs left intensive care between seven and 10 days earlier on average. Updated guidance on the use of the drugs will be issued on Friday, encouraging hospitals to use tocilizumab while treating Covid-19 patients immediately.Health secretary Matt Hancock said, “Today’s results are yet another landmark development in finding a way out of this pandemic and, when added to the armoury of vaccines and treatments already being rolled out, will play a significant role in defeating this virus.“We have worked quickly to ensure this treatment is available to NHS patients without delay, meaning hundreds of lives will be saved. I am hugely proud of the significant role our NHS and its patients have played in this international trial.”Stephen Powis, NHS national medical director, said, “The fact there is now another drug that can help to reduce mortality for patients with Covid-19 is hugely welcome news and another positive development in the continued fight against the virus.”In June last year, the UK government approved dexamethasone as the world’s first treatment proven to reduce mortality for Covid-19. The REMAP-CAP trial found that the rate of death for those in intensive care units on corticosteroids, such as dexamethasone, and respiratory support alone was 35%, which was reduced to 28% when tocilizumab was also administered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-uk-trial-finds-2-more-drugs-reduce-deaths-icu-stay/story-2fXh5Ylyu22Z90r1S1MgkO.html
08-01-2021||World||Trump faces Facebook ban. Read CEO Mark Zuckerberg’s full statement here||Facebook and Instagram have placed a ban on posts by US president Donald Trump ‘indefinitely on Thursday for encouraging violent rioters who had barged into the US Capitol building when US Congress was certifying the US election results.Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg on Thursday released a statement saying that it is a matter of huge risk to allow the US president to use Facebook. Here is the full text of his statement:The shocking events of the last 24 hours clearly demonstrate that President Donald Trump intends to use his remaining time in office to undermine the peaceful and lawful transition of power to his elected successor, Joe Biden.Also Watch | Facebook, Instagram ban Donald Trump ‘indefinitely’ after US Capitol breach His decision to use his platform to condone rather than condemn the actions of his supporters at the Capitol building has rightly disturbed people in the US and around the world. We removed these statements yesterday because we judged that their effect -- and likely their intent -- would be to provoke further violence.Following the certification of the election results by Congress, the priority for the whole country must now be to ensure that the remaining 13 days and the days after inauguration pass peacefully and in accordance with established democratic norms.Over the last several years, we have allowed President Trump to use our platform consistent with our own rules, at times removing content or labeling his posts when they violate our policies. We did this because we believe that the public has a right to the broadest possible access to political speech, even controversial speech. But the current context is now fundamentally different, involving use of our platform to incite violent insurrection against a democratically elected government.We believe the risks of allowing the President to continue to use our service during this period are simply too great. Therefore, we are extending the block we have placed on his Facebook and Instagram accounts indefinitely and for at least the next two weeks until the peaceful transition of power is complete.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/facebook-instagram-ban-trump-read-ceo-mark-zuckerberg-s-full-statement-here/story-NphOo56d6ILMYu8LQdGdkI.html
08-01-2021||World||Facebook, Instagram ban US president Donald Trump ‘indefinitely’||Facebook banned President Donald Trump from the platform “indefinitely” due to his efforts to incite the violence in the US capital this week, chief executive Mark Zuckerberg said Thursday.Zuckerberg said the 24-hour ban announced Wednesday was extended because of Trump’s “use of our platform to incite violent insurrection against a democratically elected government.”The announcement came the day after the outgoing US leader was locked out of all major social media platforms due to his false claims about the legitimacy his loss to President-elect Joe Biden, and for inciting the angry mob that stormed the US Capitol.Also Watch | Facebook, Instagram ban Donald Trump ‘indefinitely’ after US Capitol breach His favorite megaphone, Twitter, blocked him for 12 hours, but it was unclear Thursday if the ban had been lifted.Snapchat confirmed Thursday that it locked Trump out of the photo sharing platform amid concerns over his dangerous rhetoric.“We believe the risks of allowing the President to continue to use our service during this period are simply too great,” Zuckerberg wrote on his Facebook page.“Therefore, we are extending the block we have placed on his Facebook and Instagram accounts indefinitely and for at least the next two weeks until the peaceful transition of power is complete.”The crackdown came after Trump’s supporters stormed the US Capitol on Wednesday in an unprecedented attack that led to one woman being shot and killed by police, interrupting the normally ceremonial procedure to certify Biden’s election victory.Trump, who had addressed the mob and urged them to march on the Capitol, later released a video on social media in which he repeated the false claim of election fraud -- even telling the mob “I love you.”YouTube removed the video in line with its policy barring claims challenging election results.Twitter said Trump’s messages were violations of the platform’s rules on civic integrity and that any future violations “will result in permanent suspension of the @realDonaldTrump account.”The messaging platform said Trump’s account would be locked for 12 hours and that if the offending tweets were not removed, “the account will remain locked.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/facebook-bans-us-president-donald-trump-indefinitely/story-7gpYrJUa82XMiChPulFNiP.html
