09-01-2021||World||Hit by Twitter ban, president plans to start own platform||US President Donald Trump said he will look at building his own social media platform after Twitter suspended him on Friday, citing a “risk of further incitement of violence” following the storming of the US Capitol.Trump sent the latest tweets on his @POTUS account after Twitter banned his personal account. He had been using @realDonaldTrump for announcements, accusations and misinformation. Twitter said in a blog post, “We have permanently suspended the account due to the risk of further incitement of violence.”Also, owners of the two major app stores took action against the Parler social networking service because of posts inciting violence, with Alphabet’s Google removing it and Apple warning it may do the same.Trump to blame for death of woman, says familyThe brother-in-law of a woman killed during the assault on the US Capitol by a mob said he blames President Trump for the riot, and has joined calls for him to be removed from office.Rosanne Boyland, a 34-year-old resident of Kennesaw, Georgia, was one of four civilians who died in the rioting. Police did not disclose the cause of Boyland’s death. Boyland’s brother-in-law Justin Cave told the media that the family was grieving for others killed and injured in the rioting, he said||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/hit-by-twitter-ban-president-plans-to-start-own-platform-101610215228754.html
09-01-2021||World||Pak court remands main accused, 55 others for vandalisation of Hindu temple||An anti-terrorism court in Pakistan on Saturday sent the main accused, along with 55 others, arrested in the vandalisation of a Hindu temple by a mob led by members of a radical Islamist party in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province, to police custody for nine days.The court also remanded another 56 accused in the case, including Maulvi Sharif who is said to have incited the crowd, to judicial custody.The temple in Terri village in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa's (KP) Karak district was attacked last week by the mob after members of the Hindu community received permission from local authorities to renovate its decades-old building. The mob had demolished the newly constructed work alongside the old structure.Khyber Pakhtunkhwa police chief Sanaullah Abbasi said on Friday that Faizullah, who was identified as the main accused, was arrested from Karak district. He is said to have instigated and facilitated the mob for attacking the temple and damaging the Samadhi of a religious leader there.The attack on the temple by members of radical Jamiat Ulema-e-Islam party (Fazal ur Rehman group) drew strong condemnation from human rights activists and the minority Hindu community leaders.Police have filed complaint against 350 people in the case.The Supreme Court has ordered the Evacuee Property Trust Board (EPTB) to start reconstruction of the damaged temple and instructed authorities to recover the money for the restoration work from the attackers whose act has caused "international embarrassment" to Pakistan.Hindus form the biggest minority community in Pakistan.According to official estimates, 75 lakh Hindus live in Pakistan. However, according to the community, over 90 lakh Hindus are living in the country.The majority of Pakistan's Hindu population is settled in Sindh province where they share culture, traditions and language with Muslim residents. They often complain of harassment by the extremists.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pak-court-remands-main-accused-55-others-for-vandalisation-of-hindu-temple-101610214868269.html
09-01-2021||World||No surprise: Trump left many clues he wouldn't go quietly||President Donald Trump left plenty of clues he'd try to burn the place down on his way out the door.The clues spread over a lifetime of refusing to acknowledge defeat. They spanned a presidency marked by raw, angry rhetoric, puffed-up conspiracy theories and a kind of fellowship with “patriots” drawn from the seething ranks of right-wing extremists. The clues piled on at light speed when Trump lost the election and wouldn't admit it.The culmination of all that came Wednesday when Trump supporters, exhorted by the president to go to the Capitol and “fight like hell” against a “stolen” election, overran and occupied the building in an explosive confrontation that left a Capitol Police officer and four others dead.The mob went there so emboldened by Trump's send-off at a rally that his partisans live-streamed themselves trashing the place. Trump, they figured, had their back.This was, after all, the president who had responded to a right-wing plot to kidnap Michigan's Democratic governor last year with the comment: “Maybe it was a problem. Maybe it wasn't.”Over the arc of his presidency and his life, by his own words and actions, Trump hated losing and wouldn't own up to it when it happened. He spun bankruptcies into successes, setbacks in office into glowing achievements, the stain of impeachment into martyrdom.Then came the ultimate loss, the election, and desperate machinations that politicians likened to the practices of “banana republics" or the "Third World” but were wholly America in the twilight of the Trump presidency.Often with a wink and a nod over the past four years, sometimes more directly — “We love you,” he told the Capitol Hill mob as he gently suggested well into the clashes that they go home now — Trump made common cause with fringe elements eager to give him affirmation in return for his respect.That made for a combustible mix when the stakes were highest. The elements had been coming together in plain sight, often in missives delivered by tweet. (On Friday, Twitter banned Trump's account, denying him his megaphone of choice, "due to the risk of further incitement of violence.”)“I wish we could say we couldn’t see it coming,” President-elect Joe Biden said of the Capitol melee. "But that isn’t true. We could see it coming.”Mary Trump saw it coming from her unique vantage point as a clinical psychologist and Trump niece.“It’s just a very old emotion that he’s never been able to process from when he was a little kid — terrified of the consequences of being in a losing position, terrified of being held accountable for his actions for the first time in his life,” she told PBS a week after the election.“He is in a position of being a loser, which in my family, certainly ... was the worst possible thing you could be,” she said. “So he’s feeling trapped, he’s feeling desperate ... increasingly enraged."Post-election trouble was predictable because Trump all but said it would happen if he lost.Months before a vote was cast, he claimed the system was rigged and plans for mail-in voting fraudulent, assailing the process so relentlessly that he may have hurt his chances by discouraging his supporters from voting by mail. He pointedly declined to assure the country in advance that he would respect the result, something most presidents don't have to be asked to do.There was no evidence before the election that it would be tainted and no evidence after of the massive fraud or gross error that he and his team alleged in scores of lawsuits that judges, whether appointed by Republicans, Democrats or Trump himself, systematically dismissed, often as nonsense. The Supreme Court, with three justices placed by Trump, brushed him off.That didn't stop him.“I hate defeat," he said in a 2011 video. “I cannot stand defeat.”But the election aftermath ultimately left him with no fallback except his foot soldiers, who couldn't countenance his losing, either.Trump's history of advancing false and sometimes racist conspiracies rooted in right-wing extremism is long.He's praised supporters of QAnon, a convoluted pro-Trump conspiracy theory, saying he didn’t know much about the movement “other than I understand they like me very much” and “it is gaining in popularity.”QAnon centers on an alleged anonymous, high-ranking government official known as “Q” who shares information about an anti-Trump “deep state.” The FBI has warned that conspiracy theory-driven extremists, such as QAnon, are domestic terrorist threats.In 2017, Trump said there was “blame on both sides” for deadly violence in Charlottesville, Virginia, the site of a standoff between white supremacist groups and those protesting them. He said there were “fine people” on both sides.And during a debate with Biden, Trump wouldn’t criticize the neo-fascist Proud Boys. Instead, Trump said the group should “Stand back and stand by.” The remark drew a firestorm and a day later he tried to walk it back.Trump didn’t condemn the actions of an Illinois teen accused of fatally shooting two people and wounding a third during summer protests on the streets of Kenosha, Wisconsin. Kyle Rittenhouse pleaded not guilty to charges.In October he chose not to denounce people who plotted the kidnapping of Michigan Gov. Gretchen Whitmer, a Democrat. “When our leaders meet, encourage or fraternize with domestic terrorists, they legitimize their actions and they are complicit,” she said. “When they stoke and contribute to hate speech, they are complicit.”To Mary Trump, the manner of her uncle's defeat helped to set the stage for the toxicity she presciently said in November would happen.Republicans in the Senate and House races outperformed him, enlarging their minority in the House and holding their Senate majority until Georgia’s two elections this month tipped the Senate balance to Democrats.His defeat Nov. 3 was on him, not the party. “So he also doesn’t have anybody else to blame,” his niece said. “So I think that he is probably in a position that nobody can help him out of emotionally and psychologically, which is going to make it worse for the rest of us.”Worse came.Oren Segal, vice president of the Anti-Defamation League's Center on Extremism, called the attack Wednesday the “logical conclusion to extremism and hate going unchecked” during Trump’s presidency.“If you’re surprised, you haven’t been paying attention,” said Amy Spitalnick of Integrity First, a civil rights group engaged in lawsuits over the 2017 Charlottesville violence.Thursday night, Trump took a stab at a unifying message, after months of provocation, saying in a video “this moment calls for healing and reconciliation."But Friday he was back to tending “his great American Patriots” and demanding they be treated fairly, and he said he won't go to Biden's inauguration.He acknowledged his presidency was ending, but did not — could not, may never — acknowledge defeat.For all of the insulting nicknames he's tagged on his political foes — sleepy, shifty, cryin’, corrupt, crazy, little, brain-dead, wacky, pencil neck, low-IQ, watermelon head, dummy, deranged, sick puppy, low energy — none was meant to sting more than “loser.” And nothing, it seems, stung more than when the loser was him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/no-surprise-trump-left-many-clues-he-wouldn-t-go-quietly-101610214199468.html
09-01-2021||World||Factbox: Details of airplane and airline in Indonesia crash||Here are some facts about the airplane and airline involved in the crash of a Boeing 737-500 jet operated by Sriwijaya Air on an Indonesian domestic flight on Saturday, with 62 people on board.BOEING 737-500The Boeing 737-500 is part of the 737 family, the world's most-flown commercial aircraft series. It was developed in the 1960s to serve short- or medium-length routes.The 737-500 entered service in 1990 and comes from the second of four generations of 737, dubbed 737 Classic.It shares only limited features with the fourth and latest generation, Boeing's problem-plagued 737 MAX, and does not have the flawed cockpit software that contributed to two fatal crashes and triggered the MAX's 20-month grounding.But the 737-500 has mostly been phased out in favour of younger, more fuel-efficient models for economic reasons.The aircraft that crashed was almost 27 years old and was originally flown by carriers in the United States.Commercial jets typically fly up to 25 years before being scrapped, but are built to last longer.Boeing delivered a total of 10,050 of the 737s developed before the MAX, including 389 of the 737-500 model.The 737-500 has been involved in four fatal crashes in Russia, Tunisia and Egypt, which investigators linked to factors including pilot performance, training or weather, according to Aviation Safety Network, an online safety database.The worst crash involved an Aeroflot 737-500 with the loss of 88 lives in Perm, Russia, in 2008.The 737-500 is designed to hold 145 people but those flown by Sriwijaya are configured for 120, according to its website.Its engines are built by French-American CFM International, co-owned by General Electric and France's Safran.SRIWIJAYA AIRFounded in 2003, Jakarta-based Sriwijaya Air group flies largely to domestic locations in Indonesia as well as limited service to foreign destinations including Penang in Malaysia.The loss-making airline is roughly the fifth largest carrier in Indonesia by flights scheduled, with some 10% of the local market, according to aviation data firm Cirium.Its operations and finances were briefly run by Citilink, the low-cost arm of state carrier Garuda after losses raised questions over its survival, but it ended the deal in 2019.The airline has a solid safety record with no onboard casualties in four incidents recorded on the Aviation Safety Network database, though a farmer was killed when a Boeing 737-200 left the runway in 2008 following a hydraulic problem.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/factbox-details-of-airplane-and-airline-in-indonesia-crash-101610213186703.html
09-01-2021||World||Connecticut outpaces New York in race to vaccinate residents||Governor Andrew Cuomo has insisted that New York’s health-care workforce be fully vaccinated before others in the state are immunized, but in neighboring Connecticut, a looser approach is getting results more quickly.On Friday, Cuomo reversed course after criticism, saying New York will start scheduling vaccination appointments for seniors, teachers and first responders.According to Bloomberg’s vaccine tracker, New York has administered just 38% of the shots it has received from the U.S. government as of Jan. 7. Connecticut has worked through 46% of its supply. The difference has narrowed in recent days, with Connecticut receiving another batch of shots and New York picking up the pace of vaccination.The gap raises questions about whether the tightly controlled rollout in the Empire State has left vaccines on the shelf even as new highs are reported in daily cases. A national debate is emerging over how to balance the goal of vaccinating high-risk populations with the need to get as many shots into arms as quickly as possible.“You’ve got to move down the list very quickly, and quite frankly, what we absolutely ought to do is get essential workers, people with co-morbid conditions who are patients at risk, we’ve got to get this done as soon as possible,” Steven Corwin, chief executive officer of New York-Presbyterian health system, said Friday in an interview with Bloomberg TV.More than three weeks into the U.S. Covid-19 vaccination campaign, 6.25 million doses have been administered, according to Bloomberg’s vaccine tracker. That represents about 29% of the shots distributed by the federal government. Federal officials had a goal of vaccinating 20 million people by the end of December.Frustration GrowingFrustration with Cuomo’s approach boiled over in New York City. Mayor Bill de Blasio this week said the city has 270,000 shots going unused because of rigid rules. The state created tightly defined priority groups dictating whom to vaccinate and when.De Blasio Friday pleaded with the governor to allow the city to start immunizing residents 75 and older. The two Democrats, who had worked together in the Clinton administration, have been feuding for years.First in line in New York were high-risk hospital workers, such as emergency room and intensive-care staff. Other health-care personnel such as independent doctors were scheduled to be vaccinated later, though Cuomo opened vaccination to them Monday.Cuomo on Friday said the guidelines were designed to protect the people treating coronavirus patients. They are also causing frustration among some health-care workers.Jana Dehovitz, a pediatrician in Brooklyn, unsuccessfully tried to get vaccinated for weeks. She said she was frustrated hearing stories of politicians and specialists at large health systems who don’t see patients receiving their shots.“Are they going to come see our patients for us since they’ll be protected?” Dehovitz said. She got the first of a two-course shot Thursday through Weill Cornell Medicine, where she is affiliated.Accelerating PlansHospitals in the state administered 195,078 shots this week, the largest weekly total thus far, Cuomo said. He blamed “incompetent” organizations for moving too slowly and urged them to vaccinate at all hours.Corwin, the New York-Presbyterian CEO, said guidelines need to be loosened.“If we do this in too rigid of a manner, too linear of a manner, if you will, I don’t think we’ll get there,” he said of vaccinating enough people to reach herd immunity. “It will dribble out.”New York will open registration to people 75 and older, teachers, first responders, public transit workers and public safety workers on Monday, Cuomo said. The state also will start sending shots to pharmacies and doctor’s offices.Supply will remain an issue, Cuomo said, adding that New York receives 300,000 doses from the federal government every week. At that rate, the state won’t be able to immunize everyone in the first two waves until April 16. He urged people to be patient.Connecticut StrategyConnecticut Governor Ned Lamont in a briefing Thursday said micromanaging which populations receive the vaccination has slowed down some states. Without identifying locations, he described breakdowns between nurses and doctors in the emergency room over staff or those cleaning the same hospital room.“We tried to provide clear guidance” on who’s eligible for vaccines and when, Lamont said.Connecticut took a more general approach, making all health-care workers eligible immediately. The state defined the group as paid and unpaid people serving in health-care settings who have the potential for direct or indirect exposure to patients or infectious materials. Lamont said the state wanted to give health systems leeway to make their own decisions.Yale New Haven Health began vaccinating those at the highest risk of exposure, said Richard Martinello, medical director of infection protection. The system has administered 17,839, or 76%, of the 23,550 doses allocated to it as of Wednesday, he said. It aims to immunize 80% of its 28,000 employees by the end of the month.Martinello serves on Connecticut’s vaccine advisory committee. While creating detailed breakdowns makes logical sense, he said, it can be time consuming to ensure the right people are being vaccinated.“That’s a challenge and it takes a lot of resources to do that,” Martinello said.Connecticut placed first responders -- including police, fire and emergency medical technicians -- in its initial group eligible for vaccination, along with health-care workers and residents of long-term care facilities.Lamont on Thursday described a “Wild West” in states that quickly opened vaccination to seniors, relying on concert-ticketing sites and creating long lines in some areas.A more flexible approach isn’t speeding distribution in every state, however. Florida and Texas have thrown the doors open to seniors, but their administration rates are lower than New York’s.The FDA supports states like Texas moving to age-based distribution when they have extra shots, Commissioner Stephen Hahn said Friday at a conference of the Alliance for Health Policy. He said the FDA encourages states to continue doing that, echoing comments earlier in the week from Health and Human Services Secretary Alex Azar.“We think that would go a long way toward using these vaccines appropriately,” Hahn said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/connecticut-outpaces-new-york-in-race-to-vaccinate-residents-101610212066277.html
09-01-2021||World||Pope Francis to have Covid-19 vaccine as early as next week||Pope Francis said on Saturday he planned to have a Covid-19 vaccination as early as next week and urged everyone to get a shot, to protect not only their own lives but those of everyone else."I believe that ethically everyone should take the vaccine," the Pope said in an interview with TV station Canale 5. "It is an ethical choice because you are gambling with your health, with your life, but you are also gambling with the lives of others."The Vatican City, the smallest independent county in the world, has said it will shortly launch its own vaccination campaign against the coronavirus."Next week," the Pope said, "we will start doing it here, in the Vatican, and I have booked myself in. It must be done."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pope-francis-to-have-covid-19-vaccine-as-early-as-next-week-101610212378518.html
09-01-2021||World||Coronavirus infections cross 9,000-mark in Canada||The number of confirmed Covid-19 cases crossed the 9,000-mark for the first time in Canada, while public health authorities reported that one of those infections was due to a mutation of the virus that recently originated in South Africa.With 9,197 cases reported on Friday, the total caseload crossed 643,800 while the fatalities recorded so far have touched 16,700.The second wave that has seen a surge in cases and deaths this winter has been worse than the incidence of infections in spring last year when the pandemic first raged across the world.A new worry for public health officials is that more contagious variants of the coronavirus are being detected in the country. The province of Alberta found the first case of a South African variant in a traveller who returned to the country from overseas recently and is now in quarantine. Canada’s Chief Public Health Officer Dr Theresa Tam also confirmed during a media interaction that 14 cases of a new variant from the United Kingdom had also been detected in Canada.The upward trend in cases, including rising number of those with severe illness and deaths, was described as “worrisome” by Tam. Public health officials have presented modelling data that forecasts the number of cases reaching between 12,000 and 14,000 daily this month.However, Tam also offered some positive news, as she said that of the 115,072 Covid-19 vaccines administered in the country through December 2020, there were only nine reports of “adverse reactions”, or just 0.008% of the total. “There have been no unexpected vaccine safety issues identified to date,” she tweeted.Meanwhile, the government continues to face criticism over the slow pace of vaccine rollout in the country, even as emergency authorisation was given to the Pfizer-BioNTech and Moderna vaccines last month and shipments arrived in Canada. Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau has reasserted that the nationwide inoculation programme will be completed by September this year for those willing to be vaccinated. “Quantities of both the Pfizer and the Moderna vaccines will scale up in February. We need to make sure we’re getting those doses as quickly as possible, and I can assure you that we continue ongoing conversations with the companies about accelerating the schedule of delivery, so that we can get Canadians vaccinated as quickly and efficiently as possible,” Trudeau said.Only 0.66% of the population has received at least the first jab of the vaccine so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/coronavirus-infections-cross-9-000-mark-in-canada-101610211635833.html
09-01-2021||World||Stalin-themed cafe in Moscow closed after public outcry||A shawarma shop in Moscow was forced to close a day after it opened following an outcry over its provocative Josef Stalin-themed branding, the shop's owner told Reuters on Saturday.The Stalin Doner shop featured a portrait of the controversial Communist leader above its front door. Inside, a man dressed in the Stalin-era security service uniform served customers meat wraps named after Soviet leaders."We fully opened the day before yesterday and served around 200 customers," shop owner Stanislav Voltman said."There were no legal reasons (to close the shop)," he added, but said that police had forced him to remove the Stalin sign and then "colossal pressure" from local authorities forced him to shut completely.The branding was hotly debated on social media with some commenters condemning it as distasteful.Stalin's rule was marked by mass repression, labour camps and famine. Nearly 700,000 people were executed during the Great Terror of 1936-38, according to conservative official estimates.However, many in the former Soviet Union still regard him primarily as the leader who defeated Nazi Germany in the Second World War, ensuring the country's very existence."I had expected some social media hype," Voltman said. "But I had not expected that all TV stations, all the reporters and bloggers would flock here and queue up like they do in front of the Lenin mausoleum."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/stalinthemed-cafe-in-moscow-closed-after-public-outcry-101610211429584.html
09-01-2021||World||Capitol chaos: Canadian PM accuses Donald Trump of inciting the rioters||Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau has accused outgoing US President Donald Trump of inciting the rioters who wreaked havoc at the US Capitol in Washington, DC earlier this week.Speaking to the media in front of his residence in Ottawa Rideau Cottage, Trudeau said, “What we witnessed was an assault on democracy by violent rioters, incited by the current president and other politicians.”He also said that while the riots were “shocking, deeply disturbing, and frankly saddening”, the week also witnessed “that democracy is resilient in America, our closest ally and neighbour. Violence has no place in our societies, and extremists will not succeed in overruling the will of the people.”Trump’s rival Joe Biden’s election as the next president of America was ratified just hours after Trump supporters barged into the chambers of the US Congress on Wednesday.Describing democracy as “precious”, the Canadian PM added, “We must always work to secure our democracy, and not give comfort to those who promote things that are not true or give space for hate and extremism.”Placing events in the Canadian context, Trudeau said that “we will continue to be extremely vigilant to remember that the choices we make as leaders, as politicians, have consequences”.This isn’t the first time that Trudeau has weighed in on the violence in Washington, DC. In a tweet as the events at the Capitol unfolded on Wednesday, Trudeau had said, “Canadians are deeply disturbed and saddened by the attack on democracy in the United States, our closest ally and neighbour. Violence will never succeed in overruling the will of the people. Democracy in the US must be upheld - and it will be.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/capitol-chaos-canadian-pm-accuses-donald-trump-of-inciting-the-rioters-101610211564041.html
09-01-2021||World||US Capitol riots: Donald Trump heading for second impeachment||US Democrats could start the process to impeach outgoing President Donald Trump on the charge “incitement of insurrection” by his supporters who stormed the Capitol at his instigation as soon as Monday if he doesn’t resign “immediately”.If the move succeeds, he will become the first US president to be impeached twice. Democrats are undeterred by the shortage of time available to both impeach Trump and evict him from office before he leaves the White House at the end of his term on January 20.Trump’s remaining 12 days in the White House seemed increasingly in jeopardy as even Republicans have joined in the growing calls for his removal from office. “I want him to resign. I want him out. He has caused enough damage,” Lisa Murkowski, a Republican senator, told The Anchorage Daily, her home state news publication in Alaska. Other Republicans such as Senator Ben Sasse expressed willingness to consider voting for an impeachment motion, if introduced.Twitter, however, didn’t wait any longer. It “permanently suspended” Trump’s account “due to the risk of further incitement of violence”, it said in a post. Trump is reported to have tried to circumvent the ban by posting under the official account of @POTUS (short for President Of The United States) , but Twitter caught his move and shut it down. The social media platform had initially blocked Trump’s account for 12 hours. Earlier on Friday, Twitter had banned Trump’s personal lawyer Sidney Powell, the purveyor of the US president’s election fraud claims, and former National Security Adviser Michael Flynn, who has suggested the use of presidential powers to seize voting machines to prove Trump’s claims of poll irregularities. Facebook and Instagram had locked Trump’s accounts in the immediate aftermath of the insurrection targeting the US Capitol, a centuries-old building that houses both chambers of Congress. And Google purged Parler, a self-acclaimed right-wing alternative to Twitter, from its entire suite of online platforms.President-elect Joe Biden slammed Trump in remarks to introduce new members of his cabinet, saying he has been a worse president than feared. Biden welcomed the president’s announcement that he will not attend the inauguration, saying that was one of the few things he agreed with Trump on. But he refused to associate himself with his congressional colleagues’ move to oust Trump, saying he will leave it to them.Congressional Democrats were moving at breakneck speed to get Trump out of office before January 20, the day when Biden will be sworn in as president. “It is the hope of members that the president will immediately resign. But if he does not, I have instructed the rules committee to be prepared to move forward with Congressman Jamie Raskin’s 25th amendment legislation and a motion for impeachment,” House Speaker Nancy Pelosi said in a statement. “Accordingly, the House will preserve every option - including the 25th amendment, a motion to impeach or a privileged resolution for impeachment.”Raskin’s 25th amendment legislation is about a lesser-known subsection of the constitutional provision that empowers the vice-president and an outside body set by Congress to determine if the president is unfit to continue and then replace him. The better-known provision empowers the vice-president and a majority of the cabinet to oust a president for the same reason.A four-page draft of the motion of impeachment that was widely cited in US media charges Trump with “incitement of insurrection”. It said, “In all of this, President Trump gravely endangered the security of the United States and its institutions of government. He threatened the integrity of the democratic system, interfered with the peaceful transition of power, and imperiled a coordinate branch of government. He thereby betrayed his trust as President, to the manifest injury of the people of the United States.”Trump was impeached on December 18, 2019 by the Democrat-controlled House of Representatives, but his removal from office, the second and more consequential part of the punishment for a president, was voted down by the Republican-led Senate on February 5, 2020. Trump’s second possible impeachment has the possibility of being more consequential than the first one. With the Senate going under the control of the Democrats on January 20, Democrats can complete the process. According to reports, Democrats have discussed the possibility of carrying on with the impeachment process, if not wrapped up by inauguration day, and impeach and convict him as well, if the motion gets enough support, which will permanently ban him for running for any federal office, which would bar Trump from running for the White House again.However, the impeachment move is serious enough for the White House to recognise and oppose it. “A politically motivated impeachment against a President with 12 days remaining in his term will only serve to further divide our great country,” said spokesman Judd Deere. The Republican leadership, those still aligned with Trump, has made the same argument - that it will be divisive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-capitol-riots-donald-trump-heading-for-second-impeachment-101610211444461.html
09-01-2021||World||Extremists could return to Washington, disrupt Biden’s inauguration: Report||The US department of justice on Friday charged 15 people for their involvement in the violence in the Capitol but reports suggest that the threat of another such assault has not died down. Several organisations monitoring hate and extremism on online platforms had issued warnings of possible violence on January 6 but the law enforcement agencies were caught off guard when US President Donald Trump’s supporters stormed the Capitol.On January 4, the Anti-Defamation League (ADL), which tracks and counters hate, wrote a blog alerting about the threats of possible violence when Congressional leaders were supposed to meet and certify president-elect Joe Biden’s win. ADL said that many extremist supporters of Trump were framing rallies as a last resort to prevent Biden from being sworn in as the next president of the United States.The organisation had cautioned that online chatter among potential attendees in the days leading up to the rally had increased. While ADL made clear that it wasn’t aware of credible threats of violence planned for January 6, “the combination of an extremist presence at the rallies and the heated nature of the rhetoric suggests that violence is a possibility.”“In response to a user who wondered what happens if Congress ignores ‘evidence’ that President Trump won the election, a user wrote, ‘Storm the capitol’,” the blog post says, referring to a chat on thedonald.win, a pro-Trump online forum.Also Read | Explained: How Trump could be impeached again within daysExperts have issued a similar warning that the calls for violence have only intensified as incoming Biden administration prepares for inauguration on January 20. ADL CEO Jonathan Greenblatt told CNN that the white supremacists and far-right extremists “feel emboldened in this moment”. "We fully expect that this violence could actually get worse before it gets better," Greenblatt was quoted as saying by the US media network.The extremists are vowing to return to Washington ahead of Biden’s inauguration even after five people, including a police officer, lost their lives in the violence that ensued on Wednesday following Trump’s rally. “Round 2 on January 20th. This time no mercy. I don’t even care about keeping Trump in power. I care about war,” an anonymous person posted on thedonald.win.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/extremists-could-return-to-washington-disrupt-biden-s-inauguration-report-101610210149320.html
09-01-2021||World||Candida auris: Mysterious fungus that infected Covid-19 patients at US hospital||A hospital in Florida reported nearly 40 cases of the mysterious, often deadly fungus Candida auris among patients who were being treated for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in July last year, a US government study has said. The hospital, which wasn’t named in the study, carried out an additional screening in the following month in which 35 more patients were identified as being Candida auris-positive.According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention report, follow-up data was available for only 20 out of the 35 patients. Eight of these 20 people died. However, it was not clear whether the fungus was the main factor or not.What is Candida auris?C auris is a multidrug-resistant yeast that can cause invasive infection. Its ability to colonise patients asymptomatically and persist on surfaces has contributed to previous C auris outbreaks in health care settings, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.C auris is associated with up to 40% in-hospital mortality and is usually caught inside healthcare settings, especially when people have feeding or breathing tubes, or catheters placed in large veins. It causes bloodstream, wound and ear infections and has also been found in urine and respiratory samples, but it's not clear if the fungus actually infects the lung or bladder.OriginThe fungal disease was first identified in Japan in 2009 and has been a top priority for the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in recent years because of its increasing global spread. Since the first C auris case was identified in Florida in 2017, aggressive measures have been implemented to limit spread, including contact tracing and screening upon detection of a new case. C auris has now been documented in more than 30 countries, with some 1,500 US cases reported to the CDC as of October 31, 2020.What leads to Candida auris infection?The Florida department of health and CDC together performed an investigation focused on infection prevention and control measures, finding numerous weaknesses. "Mobile computers and medical equipment were not always disinfected between uses, medical supplies (e.g., oxygen tubing and gauze) were stored in open bins," the CDC report said.It added that hospital staff, possibly out of fear of the coronavirus, were wearing multiple layers of personal protective equipment (PPE), which is not recommended and in fact heightens the risk of microbe transmission. There were also instances of extended PPE use and re-use. The CDC says the fungus can spread in healthcare settings "through contact with contaminated environmental surfaces or equipment, or from person to person."What did the Florida hospital do?After Candida auris-positive cases were found, the hospital removed supplies from hallways, enhanced cleaning and disinfection practices, and improved practices around PPE use following which no new cases were detected on subsequent surveys."Outbreaks such as that described in this report highlight the importance of adhering to recommended infection control and PPE practices and continuing surveillance for novel pathogens like C auris," the report said.(With AFP inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/candida-auris-mysterious-fungus-that-infected-covid-19-patients-at-us-hospital-101610209179886.html
09-01-2021||World||'Brian did his job': Family remembers fallen Capitol Hill officer||From his early days growing up in a New Jersey hamlet, Brian Sicknick wanted to be a police officer.He enlisted in the National Guard six months after graduating high school in 1997, deploying to Saudi Arabia and then Kyrgyzstan. Joining the Guard was his means to joining law enforcement, his family said.He would join the U.S. Capitol Police in 2008, serving until his death Thursday after being attacked as rioters seething over President Donald Trump’s election loss stormed the U.S. Capitol, believing the president's false claims of a rigged election.“His brother told me, ‘Brian did his job,’” said John Krenzel, the mayor of Sicknick’s hometown of South River, New Jersey.Sicknick's death has shaken America as it grapples with how an armed mob could storm the halls of the U.S. Capitol as the presidential election results were being certified, sending hundreds of lawmakers, staff and journalists fleeing for safety. Videos published online show vastly outnumbered Capitol Police officers trying in vain to stop surging rioters, though other videos show officers not moving to stop rioters in the building.Police leadership badly miscalculated the threat despite weeks of signals that Wednesday could get violent. And they refused Pentagon help three days before the riot, and again as the mob descended. Under withering criticism, the police chief resigned as have the chief security officers for both the U.S. House and Senate.The Capitol Police said in a statement that Sicknick was injured “while physically engaging with protesters." During the struggle, Sicknick, 42, was hit in the head with a fire extinguisher, two law enforcement officials said. The officials could not discuss the ongoing investigation publicly and spoke to The Associated Press on condition of anonymity.Sicknick was the youngest of three boys growing up in South River, a small borough of about 16,000 people in central New Jersey, 20 miles from Staten Island. He graduated from the Middlesex County Vocational and Technical School in East Brunswick, New Jersey, in June 1997.Superintendent Dianne Veilleux said school records show Sicknick wanted to be in law enforcement. The school will honor him by planting an oak tree on campus to symbolize his strength.He enlisted in the New Jersey Air National Guard that December, still a teenager, first deploying to Saudi Arabia in 1999. In 2003, he deployed to Kyrgyzstan, where the U.S. military operated a transit base supporting the war in Afghanistan. He was honorably discharged in December of that year.After the U.S. invasion of Iraq in March 2003, Sicknick became a vocal critic of the war, writing several letters to the editor of the local newspaper that sharply criticized former President George W. Bush for his management of the effort. In one July 2003 letter, published five months before his formal discharge, he said that “our troops are stretched very thin, and morale is dangerously low among them.”In a statement issued Friday, Sicknick’s family said he “wanted to be a police officer his entire life” and had joined the Guard “as a means to that end.”A biography issued by his family says Sicknick cared for rescued Dachshunds in his spare time and rooted for the New Jersey Devils hockey team. He is survived by his parents, Charles and Gladys Sicknick, his brothers Ken and Craig, and his longtime girlfriend, Sandra Garza.The family asked the public to respect its wishes “in not making Brian’s passing a political issue.”“Brian is a hero and that is what we would like people to remember,” the family said.On Saturday, New Jersey Gov. Phil Murphy ordered that the U.S. and New Jersey flags be flown at half-staff at all state buildings and facilities in honor of Sicknick, saying he “embodied the selfless spirit of his native state.”“Officer Sicknick gave his life protecting the United States Capitol, and by extension, our very democracy, from violent insurrection," Murphy said. "His needless murder at the hands of a mob bent on overthrowing the Constitution he had dedicated his life to upholding is shocking. It is my fervent hope that the rioters whose actions directly contributed to his death are quickly identified and brought to justice.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/brian-did-his-job-family-remembers-fallen-capitol-hill-officer-101610208858220.html
09-01-2021||World||Queen Elizabeth and husband receive Covid-19 vaccines: Palace||Britain's Queen Elizabeth and her husband Philip, both in their nineties, have received vaccinations against COVID-19, Buckingham Palace said on Saturday."The Queen and The Duke of Edinburgh have today received COVID-19 vaccinations," the palace said in a statement. The Queen is 94 years old and Philip is 99, putting them in the priority category in Britain's coronavirus vaccine rollout.A royal source said the vaccines were administered by a household doctor at the queen's Windsor Castle residence, adding that she made the news public to counter any speculation.With a highly transmissible new variant of the virus surging across Britain, Prime Minister Boris Johnson has shuttered the economy and is rushing out vaccines in a bid to stem the spread of the pandemic.The government plans to vaccinate the elderly, the vulnerable and frontline workers - around 15 million people - by mid-February, to ease a new strict lockdown imposed after a spike in cases to daily records.Britain has the world's fifth-highest official death toll from COVID-19 at nearly 80,000, and the 1,325 deaths reported within 28 days of a positive test on Friday surpassed the previous daily record toll from last April.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/queen-elizabeth-and-husband-receive-covid-19-vaccines-palace-101610208901143.html
09-01-2021||World||Democratic wins could strengthen Biden's legislative push||President-elect Joe Biden's victory in November was tempered by concerns that he would face Republican opposition in the Senate that could stymie him at every turn.Those worries eased this past week when Democrats swept two Senate special elections in Georgia, giving the party control of Congress and the White House for the first time since 2011.And the bipartisan outrage over the violent insurrection at the Capitol by pro-Donald Trump supporters could, at least for a moment, ease the partisan tensions that have paralyzed the legislative process for years.“I think it makes my job easier, quite frankly,” Biden said Friday. He said “a number” of Senate Republicans had called call him to say they “are as outraged and disappointed and embarrassed and mortified by the president's conduct as I am and Democrats are.”Biden ran for office pledging to enact the boldest legislative agenda since the Great Depression, passing everything from a massive stimulus to combat the pandemic to trillions of new spending to address climate change, expand health coverage and tackle economic inequality.To accomplish even a slice of his plans, he will have to expertly navigate a Congress that, while in Democratic hands, is closely divided. The Senate will be split evenly, with Vice President-elect Kamala Harris casting the tiebreaking vote when needed. The 222-211 Democratic majority in the House is the party's narrowest in decades.That means major legislation probably will not advance without at least some Republican support. GOP Sen. Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the current majority leader, has shown skill in keeping his party united against Democratic priorities.Passing major legislation is “still a challenge in a 50-50 Senate,” said Illinois Sen. Dick Durbin, the second-ranking Democrat.“We can win simple majorities, but you have to face those 60-vote margins,” he said, referring to the number of votes needed to overcome a filibuster.Biden will also have to cope with higher expectations after Georgia's results than if he had faced a Republican-controlled Senate. That could lead to battles with progressive Democrats who want to push the new administration further left than it likes.“Georgia, but obviously the election in November and really the last year, have been the American people saying, 'We need more. We need more and we want more,'” said Adrianne Shropshire, executive director of BlackPAC, which advocates for economic, justice and political reform. She acknowledged, however, that she does not think major change is "going to be a cakewalk” for Biden.Adam Green, co-founder of the Progressive Change Campaign Committee, which is closely aligned to leading voices on the left, including Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warren, said that while activists will not get everything they want right away, “the ceiling has just been raised on the possibility of every progressive issue.”Biden, who represented Delaware in the Senate for 36 years, said he was aware of the challenges. In introducing Boston Mayor Marty Walsh as his choice for labor secretary, Biden noted that he gave “serious consideration” to progressive Sen. Bernie Sanders of Vermont. But the president-elect added that he and Sanders decided against that, lest it cost Democrats a vital vote in a 50-50 Senate, even temporarily.Democratic Sen. Chris Coons of Delaware, a Biden confidant and someone the new administration is counting on to help coordinate its legislative strategy, said an evenly divided Senate makes some policy goals championed by the party's most progressive wing “very hard to do.” “I think the message that was just sent to the people of Georgia and to the Senate and to the people of the United States by these elections" was "folks wanted to stop the division” and ”work together" in Congress, Coons told CNBC this past week.Even when Democrats had larger congressional majorities after President Barack Obama took office in 2009, they usually needed some Republican support in the Senate for legislation. Even then, they failed to get major initiatives approved on other issues Obama campaigned on, including climate change, immigration and scores of tougher limits on corporate influence in government.Progressives also have clamored for Democrats to scrap the Senate filibuster rule, which would make things even easier for Biden's legislative agenda. But Biden has opposed doing that, and Democratic Sen. Chuck Schumer of New York, poised to become the new majority leader, was noncommittal this past week. That probably means his caucus will have to compromise with Republicans.Others, though, say now is the time to put major policy initiatives above bipartisanship, especially in an era of such deep political divisions.Alicia Garza, head of the Black to the Future Action Fund, said the scene of Trump supporters storming the Capitol, “blows out of the water this idea of any kind of 'Kumbaya'-ing between parties.” “Just a week ago, we were hearing a lot of conversation about moderation and working across the aisle," Garza said."I think what we actually need to be really clear about is that we're not dealing with the parties of the 1990s and we're not even dealing with the parities of the 2000s.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/democratic-wins-could-strengthen-biden-s-legislative-push-101610201914228.html
09-01-2021||World||Moderna vaccine set to arrive in France as country steps up anti-Covid drive||Moderna Inc's Covid-19 vaccine will arrive in France on Monday, French Prime Minister Jean Castex said, as the country steps up its vaccination drive following a sluggish start.Castex and Health Minister Olivier Veran visited a health centre in Tarbes, southwestern France, on Saturday as part of the government's campaign to accelerate France's vaccine rollout.Vaccinations against the coronavirus also took place at a centre in Taverny, near Paris. French medical regulator HAS said on Friday it had approved the Moderna vaccine, having previously cleared Pfizer/BioNTech's rival.The French presidency also said on Saturday that President Emmanuel Macron had held phone conversations on Friday with German Chancellor Angela Merkel and European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen to discuss Europe's vaccine strategy.US based Moderna said on Monday it would produce at least 600 million doses of its Covid-19 vaccine in 2021, up by 100 million doses from its previous forecast.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/moderna-vaccine-set-to-arrive-in-france-as-country-steps-up-anti-covid-drive-101610202400209.html
09-01-2021||World||Indonesian plane feared to have crashed with 62 aboard. What we know so far||An Indonesian budget airline jet suspected to have crashed into the sea just minutes after take-off from Jakarta had 62 passengers and crew on board, including 10 children, the transport minister said on Saturday.The Sriwijaya Air Boeing 737 lost contact with air traffic control about four minutes after take-off just after 2.30pm (0730 GMT) on its way to Borneo island. Flightradar24, a tracking service, said on its Twitter feed that Flight SJ182 "lost more than 10,000 feet of altitude in less than one minute, about 4 minutes after departure from Jakarta". "Sriwijaya Air flight #SJ182 lost more than 10,000 feet of altitude in less than one minute, about 4 minutes after departure from Jakarta," the tracking agency tweeted."The total number of passengers was 50 along with 12 crew," Indonesian transport minister Budi Karya Sumadi told reporters, adding that the figure included seven children and three infants. Another official had said earlier there were 56 passengers and six crew.Indonesian television channels showed pictures of suspected wreckage.Here is what we know so far:1. It was raining at Soekarno-Hatta International Airport when the Sriwijaya Air flight SJ182 took off for Pontianak, around 740km away.2. The plane was bound for Pontianak on Indonesia's section of Borneo island, about 90 minutes flying time over the Java Sea. The suspected crash site is near tourist islands just off the coast of Indonesia's sprawling capital.3. Bagus Puruhito, head of the country's search and rescue agency Basarnas, said teams had been dispatched to search the waters north of Jakarta. No radio beacon signal had been detected, the agency said. Rescue official Agus said, according to Reuters, 50 people were taking part in the search and that they would search into the night.4. Agus Haryono, another official with the agency, told Reuters that debris suspected to be from the plane had been found in the sea, but it had not been confirmed that it came from the missing flight.5. "We found some cables, a piece of jeans, and pieces of metal on the water," Zulkifli, a security official, told CNNIndonesia.com.6. A fisherman in the area known as Thousand Islands told local media that he and his crew had found several pieces of metal.7. According to fleet data on Planespotters.net, the jet had been operated by Sriwijaya Air since 2012 and was previously used by Continental Air Lines and United Airlines Holdings Inc.8. The jet is a 737-500 model that’s much older than the Max 737 aircraft that was grounded globally for about two years in 2019 after two fatal crashes.9. A Lion Air disaster killed 189 people in 2018 and prompted global outrage against Boeing’s newer 737 Max jet. An AirAsia Group Bhd plane plunged into the Java Sea in December 2014 with 162 people on board.10. Jakarta-based Sriwijaya Air group, which was founded in 2003, flies largely within Indonesia. The airline has a solid safety record until now, with no onboard casualties in four incidents recorded on the Aviation Safety Network database. However, a farmer was killed when a Boeing 737-200 left the runway in 2008 following a hydraulic problem.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/indonesian-plane-feared-to-have-crashed-with-62-aboard-what-we-know-so-far-101610202459161.html
09-01-2021||World||Twitter removes Khamenei vaccine tweet for 'violating' rules||Twitter has removed a tweet by Iran's supreme leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei suggesting coronavirus vaccines made in the United States and Britain are "untrustworthy", saying the post violated its rules."Importing vaccines made in the US or the UK is prohibited. They're completely untrustworthy. It's not unlikely they would want to contaminate other nations," said a tweet posted Friday on Khamenei's English-language Twitter account."Given our experience with France's HIV-tainted blood supplies, French vaccines aren't trustworthy either," the Iranian leader added in the tweet with the hashtag #CoronaVaccine.Twitter later removed the tweet and replaced it with a message that said it was "no longer available because it violated the Twitter Rules".The US social media company announced a policy in December to crack down on what it described as potentially "false or misleading information" about Covid-19 vaccinations.The Islamic republic has reported more than 1.2 million cases of the novel coronavirus, which have caused over 56,000 deaths.It has accused arch-enemy the United States of hampering its access to vaccines through tough sanctions.Last month, President Hassan Rouhani said Washington had demanded Tehran pay for the drugs through US banks, adding he had feared the US would seize the money.France was singled out by Khamenei on Friday because of a scandal in the 1980s in which blood infected with HIV was distributed in France, and later abroad. Hundreds of people in Iran were among those infected.Khamenei's ban concerns vaccines made by pharmaceutical giants Pfizer of the US and its German partner BioNTech, American firm Moderna and the vaccine produced by multinational company AstraZeneca and Britain's Oxford University.The World Health Organization granted emergency validation to the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine at the end of December.The WHO's experts and others found the vaccine to hold "the must-have criteria for safety and efficacy set out by WHO and that the benefits of using the vaccine to address Covid-19 offset potential risks", it said.On Wednesday the organisation's experts warned it could take months before vaccines turn the tide against the pandemic."We've got another three or six months of hard, hard road ahead of us. But we can do it. The cavalry is coming, the vaccines are coming," said Michael Ryan, WHO's emergencies director.Twitter had said in December that "vaccine misinformation presents a significant and growing public health challenge -- and we all have a role to play".Khamenei's tweets are managed by his office and usually contain statements he made during sermons, which are later published by Iranian media.The English-language account @khamenei_ir has more than 873,000 followers, including the verified accounts of top Iranian officials such as Rouhani and Foreign Minister Mohammed Javad Zarif.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/twitter-removes-khamenei-vaccine-tweet-for-violating-rules-101610201935982.html
09-01-2021||World||Public warned against Covid-19 vaccine scams in UK||Fraudsters are targeting elderly and vulnerable people with a vaccine scam and asking for bank details or cash payments for access to COVID-19 vaccines that are fake or non-existent, the UK's National Crime Agency (NCA) warned the British public in a message this week.As the UK's vaccination programme involving the Pfizer/BioNTech and Oxford/AstraZeneca jabs began expanding to National Health Service (NHS) hospitals and centres, the authorities have also been alerted to scams including a case being investigated by the City of London Police of a 92-year-old woman being defrauded of 160 pounds by a man posing as a “vaccinator”.The NCA said it is working with the government and law enforcement to urge people to remain vigilant and follow basic advice in relation to the NHS COVID vaccination programme, which will always be free and that the NHS will never ask for payment for vaccines or bank details.“The current level of reported fraud in relation to the vaccine remains very low but is increasing,” said Graeme Biggar, Director General of the National Economic Crime Centre at the NCA.“The advice is very simple. The vaccine is only available on the NHS, and you will never be asked to pay for it or to provide your bank details. Anything that suggests otherwise is a fraud,” he said.In the UK, coronavirus vaccines are only available via the NHS in England, Northern Ireland, Wales and Scotland. At the appropriate time, eligible people based on the risk criteria set will be contacted directly by the NHS, an employer, a general practice (GP) surgery or local pharmacy to receive the vaccine. However, the authorities are keen to stress that the vaccine is free of charge and at no point will people be asked to pay.“This latest scam, which plays on people's hopes for a vaccine, is one of the most callous and despicable so far, which is why we want to arm everyone with the knowledge that the NHS will never ask for cash or financial details to pay for the vaccine or verify a patient’s identity,” said UK Cabinet Office minister Julia Lopez.“It’s a sad reality that scammers and fraudsters are using the pandemic to fleece innocent people out of their hard-earned cash. If you receive an email, text message or phone call claiming to be from the NHS and you are asked to provide financial details, or pay for the vaccine, this is a scam,” added UK Security Minister James Brokenshire.Action Fraud, the UK's national fraud and cyber reporting centre, has warned that it has received around 57 reports of COVID-19 vaccination scams and reiterated the message for the public to be vigilant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/public-warned-against-covid-19-vaccine-scams-in-uk-101610201397521.html
09-01-2021||World||Georgia's Republican governor under fire after US Senate losses||Even though he wasn’t on the ballot, Republican Gov. Brian Kemp has been painfully bruised by the 2020 elections.In a state long dominated by Republicans, Democrats won Georgia’s electoral votes for president in November and two US Senate seats in runoff elections Tuesday, defeating Kemp's hand-picked Senate appointee. President Donald Trump, furious at Kemp for resisting efforts to overturn Trump's election loss, vowed to oppose the governor’s reelection next year.Trump loyalists are already working to recruit a primary challenger. Meanwhile, Democrats who have gained strength in Georgia since Stacey Abrams’ narrow 2018 loss to Kemp are spoiling for revenge.“Gov. Kemp, you’re next. See you in 2022,” the Democratic Governors Association tweeted Wednesday as the upset victories of Democrats Raphael Warnock and Jon Ossoff in the Georgia Senate races came to light.The governor's political capital took a serious hit with the loss of Republican Sen. Kelly Loeffler. A year ago, he chose the wealthy businesswoman and political novice to fill the seat vacated by retiring Sen. Johnny Isakson, in part to help Republicans win back support among suburban women. In doing so, he passed over more experienced contenders — including Trump’s personal choice, former GOP Rep. Doug Collins.The gamble failed. And the defeats of both Loeffler and fellow Republican David Perdue handed control of the U.S. Senate to Democrats.“Brian Kemp is the governor of the Titanic,” said Debbie Dooley, president of the Atlanta tea party and a Republican activist. “His governorship hit a big iceberg and it’s going down.”Dooley said she and other Trump supporters are recruiting candidates to challenge Kemp and other Republican officials deemed disloyal to Trump. Among them: Lt. Gov. Geoff Duncan, who repeatedly refused to back baseless claims that Trump won the election, and Secretary of State Brad Raffensperger, who rejected the president’s pleas to “find” more Trump votes in a recorded phone call that became public.Some Republicans blame Trump and his false claims of election fraud for hurting GOP turnout in the Senate runoffs. A crowd attending a Trump rally on the eve of the Senate runoffs erupted in cheers when the president promised to see Kemp defeated in 2022.“I’ll be here in about a year and a half, campaigning against your governor,” Trump said. “I guarantee it.”The strain on Kemp was on display Tuesday when the governor attended an election-night event for the GOP Senate candidates before their defeats were sealed.“This has been a tough time for our family for a lot of reasons,” Kemp told the crowd, which applauded his appearance. He said it wasn’t just the Senate race, but also the coronavirus pandemic, volatile protests over racial injustice and a personal tragedy that hit during the runoff campaigns.Harrison Deal, a Loeffler campaign worker who had dated one of Kemp’s daughters and grown close to his family, died in a highway crash in December. Kemp’s wife and daughters dabbed at tears as he recalled “the tragic loss of a young life way too soon.”While Trump and others have named Collins as a potential GOP challenger for Kemp, the former congressman could also run for the Senate seat that Loeffler lost. Warnock will be back on the ballot in 2022 after finishing the final year of Isakson’s term.Among Democrats, Abrams is being closely watched to see if she will make a second run for governor after losing to Kemp by fewer than 55,000 votes in 2018. She spent the past two years working to register new voters and advocating for expanded access to the ballot in a state that Republicans have controlled for roughly two decades. Abrams has been credited with paving the way for the Democrats' victories in November and on Tuesday.Democrats eyeing 2022 campaigns are expected to start making announcements later this year.“You’ve got to give yourself an 18-month window,” said state Rep. Calvin Smyre of Columbus, the legislature’s longest-serving Democrat.State Sen. Jen Jordan, a Democrat who represents parts of Atlanta and suburbs that have swung rapidly to her party, said the internal Republican jousting has obscured Kemp's other problems. Democrats are determined to make Kemp pay a political price for Covid-19′s impact on Georgia, seeing as reckless his unwillingness to impose a statewide mask mandate and refusal to impose stronger restrictions as hospitalizations and deaths have escalated this winter.“I’m sure it has not been fun being governor during a pandemic, and the economy is not great,” Jordan said. “He’s getting killed on the GOP side. But he’ll have to answer for all the other stuff, too.”Kemp will take center stage next week as the Georgia legislature opens, likely highlighting a relatively low unemployment rate, a string of industrial announcements, opposition to gangs and sex trafficking and his plan for a partial expansion of Medicaid. Ryan Mahoney, a political consultant who has worked for Kemp, said the governor’s agenda is popular and he will be able to seize the spotlight.“The session couldn’t come at a better time,” Mahoney said. “For the next three months, he gets to remind people he’s governor.”Mahoney said he believes Democratic control of the White House and Congress will help bring Republicans back to Kemp, giving him a chance to reunite a fractured party by spearheading conservative opposition to Biden.“It’s going to be a pretty binary choice,” Mahoney said. “At some point, are you with us or are you with them?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/georgias-republican-governor-under-fire-after-us-senate-losses-101610199946253.html
09-01-2021||World||Pakistani court directs authorities to arrest JeM chief Masood Azhar by Jan 18||A Pakistani court has given police officials time till January 18 to arrest Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) chief Masood Azhar, days after directing them to produce the UN-designated terrorist on charges of terror financing.The anti-terrorism court (ATC) at Gujranwala in Pakistan’s Punjab province had on Thursday issued an arrest warrant for Azhar on the request of the local Counter-Terrorism Department and judge Natasha Naseem Supra had ordered that he should be produced in court on Friday.The court’s order was the first official acknowledgement of Azhar’s presence on Pakistani soil in recent years. Pakistani officials and leaders have repeatedly said they didn’t have information on his whereabouts.When the matter came up for hearing in the Gujranwala court on Friday, the judge gave the Counter-Terrorism Department time till January 18 to arrest Azhar, failing which steps would be taken to declare him a fugitive.“ATC Gujranwala judge Natasha Naseem Supra, during the case hearing on Friday, directed the CTD to arrest JeM chief Masood Azhar by January 18 and present him in the court. In case of failure (to arrest him), the court may begin proceedings to declare him a proclaimed offender,” a court official was quoted as saying by PTI.Indian officials have said the Pakistani court’s actions are clearly linked to the Financial Action Task Force (FATF) beginning the process to review Islamabad’s efforts to counter terror financing and money laundering during key meetings this month and in February.JeM was among the groups specifically named by FATF for terror financing in its reports in the past two years. India has already provided evidence on JeM and Azhar’s role in the 2019 Pulwama attack, in which 40 Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) troopers were killed. The attack had brought India and Pakistan to the brink of war.The Counter-Terrorism Department had earlier arrested six JeM terrorists – Muhammad Afzal, Muhammad Amir, Allah Ditta, Muhammad Iftikhar, Muhammad Ajmal and Muhammad Bilal Makki – on terror-related charges and sought an arrest warrant for Azhar in the same case even though he wasn’t named in the original chargesheet, people familiar with developments said.Azhar was last believed to be in his stronghold of Bahawalpur in Punjab province. There was no information on whether Pakistani authorities had launched efforts to trace him.Pakistan was placed on FATF’s “grey list” in June 2018 for failing to counter terror financing. The multilateral watchdog had given it time till February this year to implement an action plan to curb the raising of funds by terrorists after it missed several deadlines for complying with FATF’s recommendations.The UN had designated Azhar a “global terrorist” in May 2019, when China lifted its hold on a proposal to blacklist the Pakistan-based JeM chief, a decade after New Delhi approached the world body for the first time on the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pakistani-court-directs-authorities-to-arrest-jem-chief-masood-azhar-by-jan-18-101610198959068.html
09-01-2021||World||French warplanes fly over Central African Republic again as vote tensions grow||French warplanes have flown over the Central African Republic for the second time in two months, French President Emmanuel Macron's office said, as tensions in the African gold and diamond producer grow in the wake of a disputed election.Macron's office said he had condemned recent acts of violence in the republic during a phone call with its President Faustin-Archange Touadera, who is facing calls for an election re-run.French warplanes also flew over the Central African Republic ahead of the election on Decem 23.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/french-warplanes-fly-over-central-african-republic-again-as-vote-tensions-grow-101610199955948.html
09-01-2021||World||Ain't flying unless it's just us: Jakarta man books entire flight to avoid Covid||An Indonesian man booked an entire flight from Jakarta to Bali for himself and his wife to prevent themselves from contracting the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). In a series of Instagram stories, socialite Richard Muljadi shared photos of him sitting in a completely empty flight."After I'd book(ed) as many seats as possible, it was still cheaper than chattering (chartering) a PJ (private jet). That's the trick fellas. #LIFEHACKS," Muljadi wrote in the caption to his post on January 4. "Had to make sure no one else (was on) this flight. We ain't flying unless it's just us," he said in another caption, before his last story on the social media platform saying, "Bye, ghost ship," as he exited the flight.According to Mashable Southeast Asia, Muljadi said he and his actor wife Shalvynne Chang were "super paranoid" about getting infected by Covid-19, so they booked the entire flight to travel alone and be safe from other passengers who might be carrying the virus."Had to make sure no one else (was on) this flight. We ain't flying unless it's just us," he said in another caption, before his last story on the social media platform saying, "Bye, ghost ship," as he exited the flight.Lion Air Group, the owners of Batik Air, later confirmed that the couple were on board the flight ID-6502 from Jakarta to Denpasar, Bali on Tuesday afternoon, according to Mashable SE Asia. However, it added, the airline said that Muljadi's booking was only confirmed for two passengers, contradicting the socialite's claim.As of Saturday, there were 818,386 confirmed Covid-19 cases in Indonesia, according to worldometers infection tally. The virus has so far claimed 23,947 lives while 673,511 people have recovered from the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/aint-flying-unless-it-s-just-us-jakarta-man-books-entire-flight-to-avoid-covid-101610198313058.html
09-01-2021||World||US lawmakers argue why Trump must be removed with only a few days left in office||House Speaker Nancy Pelosi on Friday expressed her intention to introduce an article of impeachment against US President Donald Trump after Democrats demanded his removal from the office, citing his role in the violence at the Capitol earlier this week. The progressive caucus of Congressional Democrats has been at the forefront of the demand to remove Trump for allegedly inciting his aggressive supporters on Wednesday to storm the Capitol, which led to the death of five people, including a police officer.Vermont senator Bernie Sanders of the progressive caucus argued in the favour of Trump’s removal even though he has only a few days left in the office, saying a precedent should be set for future presidents. Taking to Twitter, Sanders said that it must be made clear that no president can lead an insurrection against the US government. “Some people ask: Why would you impeach and convict a president who has only a few days left in office? The answer: Precedent. It must be made clear that no president, now or in the future, can lead an insurrection against the U.S. government,” Sanders tweeted.Some people ask: Why would you impeach and convict a president who has only a few days left in office? The answer: Precedent. It must be made clear that no president, now or in the future, can lead an insurrection against the U.S. government.House member Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, popularly known as AOC, urged her Republican colleagues to remove Trump, claiming that the outgoing president will allow opportunities of physical harm against them if they aren’t “sufficiently loyal” to him. Notably, Trump had incited the crowd against the result of the November 3 election when his allies were inside the building to certify the victory of president-elect Joe Biden.Concerns arising from Trump’s power to launch nuclear weapon even prompted Pelosi to contact the Pentagon's top general, Mark Milley, to understand how to prevent "an unhinged president" from ordering a nuclear strike. Pelosi has called on vice president Mike Pence to invoke the constitution's 25th amendment to remove the president from power.While Trump’s removal from the office is largely being demanded by Democrats, some of the Republicans have also indicated that they would consider the article of impeachment. Republican senator Ben Sasse told CBS that if House pursues impeachment, he will “definitely consider whatever articles they might move” because he believes the president has “disregarded his oath of office.”“Lies have consequences. This violence was the inevitable and ugly outcome of the President's addiction to constantly stoking division,” Sasse had said in a statement after the violence unfolded on Wednesday. A Republican senator from Alaska, Lisa Murkowski, was the first GOP lawmaker to call on Trump to resign. Speaking to Anchorage Daily News, Murkowski said, “I want him to resign. I want him out. He has caused enough damage.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-lawmakers-argue-why-trump-must-be-removed-with-only-a-few-days-left-in-office-101610197912560.html
09-01-2021||World||UK rolls out 'Act like you’ve got it' drive amid 'alarming' Covid-19 spike||The UK government on Saturday began rolling out a series of stark advertisements as part of a new awareness drive that warns people to “Act like you’ve got it” because anyone can spread coronavirus, especially the new highly transmissible variant that has seen hospitals being overwhelmed with COVID-19 patients.The campaign – made up of television, radio and newspaper adverts as well as a social media blitz – comes as the latest daily death toll from the deadly virus hit a new peak of 1,325 deaths and infections rose to 68,053 cases. Around one in three people infected with the virus do not have any symptoms and could therefore be passing it on without realising, according to the government's messaging.UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson took to social media to urge people to strictly follow the stay-at-home lockdown as the disease continues to spread at an “alarming rate”.“Our hospitals are under more pressure than at any other time since the start of the pandemic, and infection rates continue to soar at an alarming rate,” Johnson said in a Twitter statement.“The vaccine rollout has given us renewed hope, but it’s critical for now we stay at home, protect the NHS and save lives,” he said.The warnings come a day after London Mayor Sadiq Khan declared a “major incident” in the UK capital because the coronavirus cases are “out of control” as latest figures revealed the infection rate in London has exceeded 1,000 per 100,000 people, with hospitals over-capacity with patients.A major incident is defined as an event or situation with a range of serious consequences, which requires special arrangements to be implemented by one or more emergency responder agencies.“The announcement that London has declared a major incident in the battle against coronavirus is a stark reminder of the critical point we are at,” said Deputy Assistant Commissioner Matt Twist, who leads the Metropolitan Police’s response to the COVID pandemic, as he reiterated a call for people to “stick to the rules”.“I know Londoners will be shocked that officers are still dealing with a small selfish minority who think the rules don't apply to them by holding house parties, large warehouse raves or other gatherings. These are creating breeding grounds for the much more transmissible variant,” he said.“These rule breakers cannot continue to feign ignorance of the risk that this virus poses or listen to the false information and lies that some promote downplaying the dangers. Every time the virus spreads it increases the risk of someone needlessly losing their life,” he added.UK Health Secretary Matt Hancock also issued a plea to "pull together for one final push"."I know how much we have all sacrificed already, but the new variant has significantly changed the current landscape and we absolutely cannot let up now," he said.England, much of Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland continue to be under strict national lockdown measures, with stay-at-home orders in place for most people. The rules require people to be outdoors only for very limited reasons of one form of daily exercise, essential shopping or medical needs. Schools have been closed and moved on to remote learning, with the current rules likely to be in place at least until next month. PTI AK RS RS||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-rolls-out-act-like-you-ve-got-it-drive-amid-alarming-covid-19-spike-101610195487002.html
09-01-2021||World||Nancy Pelosi moves cautiously against Trump as Biden focuses on agenda||House Speaker Nancy Pelosi is moving cautiously as she faces pressure from angry Democrats to impeach President Donald Trump for a second time, while President-elect Joe Biden is making it clear he wants to focus on his agenda and fighting the coronavirus.With many House Democrats demanding impeachment after Trump encouraged a mob that stormed the Capitol this week, Pelosi said Friday that Democrats “will preserve every option” to force Trump from office unless he resigns immediately.That could either be through the very unlikely prospect that Vice President Mike Pence invokes the 25th Amendment to declare the president incapable of governing or by impeachment in the House, which would require the Senate to act and convict Trump.She also could just let the clock run out on Trump’s presidency. Another possibility -- that Trump’s remaining advisers might simply convince him to resign -- seems remote.Pelosi said she’s instructed the House Rules Committee to be ready to move forward with an impeachment case, but she stopped short of saying that would be brought for a vote.“With great respect, our deliberations will continue,” Pelosi said in a statement. If Democrats follow through, Trump would become the first American president to be impeached twice.For Democratic leaders there’s little risk in pressuring Trump’s cabinet and Pence, but impeachment would put the spotlight on Trump instead of on preparing for Biden’s incoming administration. It could also mean a Senate impeachment trial during the first days of Biden’s presidency, forcing the chamber to set aside other business, including confirming a new cabinet.Biden on Friday, when asked about impeaching Trump, said that was a judgment for Congress to make. But he also appeared to suggest tapping the brakes on such a politically fraught move when there’s only a dozen days until his inauguration and he wants to begin tackling his agenda.“It’s important we get on with the business getting him out of office. The quickest way that that will happen is us being sworn in on the 20th,” Biden said at a news conference in Wilmington, Delaware. “I am focused now on us taking control as president and vice president on the 20th, and to get our agenda moving as quickly as we can.”Pelosi told House Democrats in a conference call early Friday afternoon that she would be talking to Biden to get his view about how they should proceed, according to a person who listened to the call. A statement from the president-elect’s transition team later said Biden spoke to Pelosi and Senate Democratic leader Chuck Schumer but it made no mention of any discussion of what actions to take on Trump.The text of the proposed impeachment resolution includes a single article accusing Trump of “Incitement of Insurrection” and says he engaged in high crimes and misdemeanors by “willfully inciting violence against the government of the United States” in connection with the storming of the Capitol Wednesday by throngs of his supporters.“We can do this by way of privileged resolution, when we’re meeting in pro forma on Monday, we can introduce it. Then, the leadership will decide whether or not we will take it up and whether they will call us back into session,” Representative David Cicilline, a Rhode Island Democrat and one of the resolution’s sponsors, said on CNN.Any attempt to impeach Trump would be running up against the calendar as well as against divisions among Republicans over how to contain the president during his final days in office. The House would have just days to act before Biden’s inauguration, and it’s not clear that the Senate could move ahead with a trial within a week. Convicting Trump would require support from a significant number of GOP senators.Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, who has stayed mum on any next steps regarding Trump, sent a memo to GOP senators late Friday that outlines what the the timetable would be for any impeachment trial. It said that the Senate is in recess and it would require unanimous consent in the chamber to act on any articles impeachment trial before Jan. 19. A trial would not begin until Trump’s term expired and then would require the Senate to remain in session daily until a verdict is rendered.Pelosi said the House also would move forward with legislation drafted by Maryland Representative Jamie Raskin to establish an permanent independent commission to accelerate the process of removing a president under the 25th Amendment of the Constitution if incapacity is found.Pelosi in a letter to Democrats earlier on Friday warned that Trump is “unhinged” and said she sought assurances from the nation’s top military commander that safeguards are in place in case he initiates an armed conflict or tries to launch a nuclear strike.Setting BlameDemocrats and some Republicans have blamed Trump for encouraging his supporters to march on the Capitol as lawmakers were formally counting the Electoral College votes affirming Biden’s victory in the presidential election. There were at least five deaths and dozens of injuries stemming from the mob’s clashes with police.Calls for Trump to resign have been growing in Congress, including among some Republicans. GOP Senator Lisa Murkowski of Alaska was the latest to urge the president to step down, telling the Anchorage Daily News that she questioned her future as a Republican if the party doesn’t break with the outgoing president.“I want him to resign. I want him out,“ Murkowski said in a Friday interview with the newspaper.Other Republicans implored Pelosi and Democrats not to go ahead with another impeachment.South Carolina Senator Lindsey Graham, who has been one of Trump’s closest allies, said if Pelosi pursued Trump’s impeachment now, it would “do more harm than good.” He appealed to Biden, who has said he wants to govern in a spirit of bipartisanship. “I’m hopeful President-elect Biden sees the damage that would be done from such action.”Trump on Thursday appeared to be trying to quell the furor and head off any clamor for his ouster within the GOP. He released a video message in which he condemned the attack on the Capitol, and said he was prepared for a smooth transition to Biden’s administration.But on Friday, Trump said he wouldn’t attend Biden’s inauguration, breaking decades of precedent, and praised his supporters in a tweet. Twitter Inc. on Friday permanently banned Trump’s personal account for repeated rules violations, marking the most high-profile punishment the social media company had ever imposed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/nancy-pelosi-moves-cautiously-against-trump-as-biden-focuses-on-agenda-101610193265871.html
09-01-2021||World||UK's Rishi Sunak looking to delay tax rises||British finance minister Rishi Sunak is expected to delay plans for tax rises until late this year, The Times newspaper reported on Friday, citing a senior government source.The source said the upcoming budget on March 3 was the "wrong time" for tax rises and the plans were likely to be delayed until autumn at the earliest, the newspaper reported.Sunak has also rejected calls to extend a temporary cut to taxes on property purchases, known as stamp duty, that is due to expire at the end of March, the Times reported.A source at the finance ministry told Reuters that it never comments on tax policy."But the truth is that no decisions have been taken this far in advance, not least given the amount of uncertainty in the current outlook," the source added.Analysts say the temporary stamp duty cut helped to fuel a pandemic boom in Britain's housing market as buyers sought bigger houses with gardens during the coronavirus lockdown.Sunak launched a 4.6 billion pound ($6.2 billion) support package for businesses on Tuesday to soften an expected recession caused by a surge in Covid-19 cases that has triggered a third national lockdown.Sunak has previously announced emergency help for the economy worth 280 billion pounds, including a massive job protection scheme that will run until the end of April.Britain's economy looks likely to tip back into recession - shrinking in the final quarter of 2020 and the first quarter of 2021 - following a record 25% fall in output in the first two months of lockdown last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uks-rishi-sunak-looking-to-delay-tax-rises-101610195365422.html
09-01-2021||World||First Qatari vehicles cross border into Saudi after Gulf detente||Qatari vehicles crossed into Saudi Arabia through a land border on Saturday for the first time since Arab states severed diplomatic and transport ties with Doha in mid-2017, Saudi state TV said, following a deal this week to restore relations."It's good the crisis has been resolved, and the warm welcome we had, and the happiness we see in our brothers," the driver of the second car to pass through the Abu Samra-Salwa crossing told Ekhbariya TV.Saudi Arabia on Tuesday announced a US-backed deal to end a bitter dispute with Qatar that saw Riyadh, the United Arab Emirates, Bahrain and Egypt imposed an embargo on Doha over allegations that it supports terrorism and is cosying up to foe Iran. Qatar denies the charges and says the boycott aimed at curtailing its sovereignty.A UAE official this week said travel and trade links could resume within a week of the deal, but restoring diplomatic ties requires more time as parties work to rebuild trust.So far no flights have resumed between Qatar and the four Arab states. Qatar Airways on Thursday began re-routing some of its flights through Saudi airspace.Etihad airways, Abu Dhabi's carrier, intends to recommence services between Abu Dhabi and Doha, a spokesperson said on Saturday.Measures to contain the spread of the new coronavirus are in place on both sides of the Saudi-Qatar land border.All arrivals into Qatar crossing at Abu Samra must present a negative Covid-19 test, take a new test at the border and quarantine for one week in one of a number of selected hotels, Qatar News Agency said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/first-qatari-vehicles-cross-border-into-saudi-after-gulf-detente-101610193309909.html
09-01-2021||World||Chaos in Pak Senate over arrest of PDM workers||The Pakistan Senate session which started on December 30 has become a battleground between the Imran Khan-led government and the opposition on the issue of the arrest of Pakistan Democratic Movement (PDM) workers.On Friday, salvos were exchanged over the arrest of PDM workers. The opposition members charged that the law enforcement agencies on the instructions of Pakistan Tehreek-i-Insaf (PTI), were involved in launching a crackdown against hundreds of their political workers before PDM's scheduled rallies across the country, reported Dawn."The opposition's movement was being taken as anti-state by the government, despite the fact that no opposition party had resorted to any illegal activity to move the PDM protest forward," said Sassui Palijo of Pakistan People's Party (PPP).She also criticised Imran Khan for not visiting the bereaved families of 11-Mach coalfield Hazaras who were brutally killed by unidentified gunmen last Sunday."The prime minister should have gone there and then taken the Senate into confidence over the tragic incident in Mach," she said, adding that there was frustration among the provinces over this incident.Taking a shot at PM Khan, she said that he could find time to meet the team of the popular Turkish drama serial Ertugrul Ghazi but not visit Quetta.Pashtoonkhwa Milli Awami Party (PkMAP) Usman Khan Kakar said the PDM demands were democratic, but the government cracked down on its workers before every rally and registered cases against them.He said the movement was struggling while remaining within the democratic parameters and following the ideology of non-violence, but the government was forcing people into rebellion and violence.The session is expected to become stormier as it is taking place amidst heightened political temperature in the backdrop of the opposition's anti-government rallies held by PDM across Pakistan since October 16.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/chaos-in-pak-senate-over-arrest-of-pdm-workers-101610193319849.html
09-01-2021||World||US Capitol Hill violence: Chicago police union head apologises for defending mob||The president of the Chicago Police officers' union apologised for defending the pro-Trump mob that stormed the US Capitol and downplaying this week's violence that left four people dead.In a statement posted on Facebook on Friday, John Catanzara, called his “poorly worded” comments made during an interview with WBEZ, Chicago's public radio station, a lapse in judgment.“I certainly would never justify any attacks on citizens, democracy or law enforcement,” he wrote.Catanzara has been a staunch supporter of President Donald Trump. In the initial comments, he characterized participants as supporters of the president who believed— as Trump has falsely claimed repeatedly—that the election had been stolen. Catanzara, who said he, too, believes that “something shady” had happened to secure the election for former Vice President Joe Biden, said the crowd had merely “pushed past security” and did not engage in violent acts such as looting or arson once inside.But those comments were also made before officials announced that a U.S. Capitol police officer who had been injured in the melee had died. Catanzara did not mention the officer's death, saying only, “After seeing more video and the full aftermath, my comments would have been different.” Catanzara's initial comments drew harsh criticism from Chicago Mayor Lori Lightfoot and others for his characterization of the ugly assault on the nation's Capitol that left four other people dead, including a woman who was shot by police.And on Friday, the National Fraternal Order of Police President Patrick Yoes in a strongly worded statement joined the growing chorus of critics of Catanzara's initial comments.“The National FOP rejects this gross mischaracterization and sees the incident for what it was — a violent mob of looters and vandals, visiting fear and destruction on one of our nation's most sacred spaces..." Yoes wrote.Catanzara has appeared in public wearing a shirt emblazoned with the words “Cops For Trump.” And after the president tweeted his congratulations when Catanzara was elected president of the union, Catanzara said he'd accepted an invitation to the White House to attend Trump's acceptance speech when he was nominated for a second term.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-capitol-gill-violence-chicago-police-union-head-apologises-for-defending-mob-101610193329026.html
09-01-2021||World||5.7 magnitude quake strikes Taiwan, no immediate reports of damage||A 5.7 magnitude earthquake struck off the northeastern coast of Taiwan on Saturday, the island's weather bureau said, with no immediate reports of damage.The quake, which briefly shook buildings in the capital, had a depth of 72.2 km (44.9 miles), the bureau added.Taiwan lies near the junction of two tectonic plates in the South China Sea and is prone to earthquakes. More than 100 people were killed in a quake in southern Taiwan in 2016, and some Taiwanese remain scarred by a 7.3 magnitude quake that killed more than 2,000 people in 1999.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/57-magnitude-quake-strikes-taiwan-no-immediate-reports-of-damage-101610193485762.html
09-01-2021||World||3 killed by avalanche at Siberian ski resort||At least three people were killed by an avalanche that hit a ski resort in Siberia, officials said Saturday.The avalanche swept over several buildings at the Otdelnaya Mountain ski complex outside the Arctic city of Norilsk just before midnight.About 250 rescuers who combed the area for hours in a snowstorm recovered the bodies of a married couple and their 18-month-old son. The couple's second child, a 14-year-old boy, was found alive and hospitalized with serious injuries.Russia's Investigative Committee has opened an investigation into an alleged breach of safety rules at the mountain ski resort.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/3-killed-by-avalanche-at-siberian-ski-resort-101610190923840.html
09-01-2021||World||Indonesian Sriwijaya Air plane loses contact after taking off from Jakarta||A Sriwijaya Air plane with more than 50 people on board lost contact after taking off from Indonesian capital Jakarta on Saturday en route to Pontianak in West Kalimantan province, local media reported.Reliable tracking service Flightradar24 said on its Twitter feed that Flight SJ182 "lost more than 10,000 feet of altitude in less than one minute, about 4 minutes after departure from Jakarta".The aircraft is a 27-year-old Boeing 737-500, according to registration details included in the tracking data.Sriwijaya Air, an Indonesian airline, said in a statement it is still gathering more detailed information regarding the flight before it can make any statement.(Reporting by Fransiska Nangoy, Agustinus Beo Da Costa, Tabita Diela and Tim Hepher; Editing by Frances Kerry)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/indonesian-sriwijaya-air-plane-loses-contact-after-taking-off-from-jakarta-101610190527481.html
09-01-2021||World||Explained: How Trump could be impeached again within days||Top Congressional Democrats, including House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, have called for the impeachment and removal of US President Donald Trump for "incitement of insurrection" after he egged on a protest earlier this week that escalated into a deadly riot inside the US Capitol. Pelosi said that the House would move ahead with the process to impeach Trump for the second time if he did not resign “immediately”.Trump could become the first president in the history of the United States to be impeached twice. In 2019, Pelosi took months to back the idea of Trump’s impeachment after some Democrats started pushing for it, which was followed by elaborate investigation and hearings. However, there are less than two weeks left for Trump to leave the office, with President-elect Joe Biden set to take charge on January 20.Democrats plan to introduce an article of impeachment for Trump’s role in the storming of the US Capitol on Wednesday and it is likely that Pelosi would hold a floor vote without any hearings, given there is little need to investigate the matter as most of the Congressional leaders were in the building when the President’s supporters broke into. A police officer and four others died after the violence, which followed a rally at which Trump exhorted supporters to fight to overturn the result of the November 3 election that he lost.The House of Representatives will vote on the article of impeachment and the majority of members would require to vote in favour to get Trump impeached for the second time during his four-year tenure. In the recently concluded House elections, Republicans narrowed their disadvantage but Democrats held onto their majority. This means the Democrats are likely to get Trump impeached if voting takes place.The proceedings will then move to Senate, the upper chamber where Democrats gained the control after Georgia runoffs. In order to convict the US president, at least two-thirds of the senators have to vote in favour of removal, which seems highly unlikely as several Senate Republicans have argued against it. According to a memo from top Senate Republican leader Mitch McConnell’s aide, the soonest the upper chamber could take up the articles of impeachment would be on January 19, reported BBC.While constitutional experts are divided on the possibility of Senate trial after president’s tenure ends, Trump could be barred from ever holding public office if the upper chamber convicts him on the article of impeachment pursued by the House. Paul Campos, a law professor at the University of Colorado, told news agency Reuters that the Senate would have the authority to vote only on future disqualification if Trump’s impeachment trial is still pending on January 20, the day when he finally leaves the office.In the history of the United States, only three presidents, Andrew Johnson (1868), Bill Clinton (1998) and Donald Trump (2019), have been impeached so far but all of them got acquitted in the Senate. In 1974, the then president Richard Nixon had faced impeachment proceedings but resigned from the office before any voting could take place.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/explained-how-trump-could-be-impeached-again-within-days-101610189244549.html
09-01-2021||World||Singapore to legislate on contact-trace data use for crimes||Singapore’s government plans to create urgent legislation to formalize the use of virus contact-tracing data in investigations of serious crimes.Legislation will be introduced in the next sitting of parliament in February to limit the use of the data to probes of seven categories of serious crimes, the Smart Nation and Digital Government Office said in a statement Friday. Those will include murder, terrorism, kidnapping and serious sexual offences, it said.The move comes amid concerns over privacy issues in the city-state’s TraceTogether contact-tracing program designed to help contain the spread of the coronavirus.“We acknowledge our error in not stating that data from TraceTogether is not exempt from the Criminal Procedure Code,” the office said.TraceTogether is being used by 78% of Singapore’s population. According to its website, the program does not collect data about individual GPS locations, Wifi or mobile networks being used. But a clause about data being only used to contact trace people exposed to the coronavirus was removed and replaced with a statement noting that police “can obtain any data, including TraceTogether data, for criminal investigations.”“The government was unequivocal last year that the data would only be used for contract tracing and public health,” said Phil Robertson, deputy Asia director of Human Rights Watch. It should “return to the original purpose of TraceTogether by firewalling that program’s data from police, prosecutors, and the criminal justice system,” he said.Gerald Giam, a lawmaker for the opposition Workers’ Party, posted this week on Facebook that it’s “ill-advised” that the government hasn’t ruled out the use of TraceTogether data for criminal investigations.“It is not in the public interest to completely deny the Police access to such data, when the safety of the public or the proper conduct of justice is at stake,” the office said in the statement. The country has already used it to investigate a murder case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/singapore-to-legislate-on-contact-trace-data-use-for-crimes-101610186627192.html
09-01-2021||World||Need to build back US economy better so that it lifts up everyone: Kamala Harris||US Vice President-elect Kamala Harris has said that there is a need to build back the economy better so that it lifts up everyone as the world’s largest economy has been severely hit by the coronavirus pandemic.Speaking to reporters in Wilmington, Delaware on Friday, Harris said that building back the economy means providing access to capital for small business owners, the economic engines of the neighbourhoods, so that they can create the jobs that are in the communities and help communities thrive.US President-elect Joe Biden and Vice President-elect Harris will take the oath of office on January 20.“We must build our economy back better so that it lifts up everyone no matter what you do for a living or where you live, whether it's in a small town, a big city, or anywhere in between,” she said in the hometown of Biden.“It means making sure we are equipping workers with the skills they need for the jobs of the future and making sure our entrepreneurs and businesses continue to out innovate and outcompete the rest of the world. And it means protecting and expanding workers' rights by fighting for a higher minimum wage and paid leave, safe and healthy workplaces, and stronger unions,” Harris said.Dignity of work is one of the fundamental values that she and Biden believe in, Harris said, adding that they both understand that a job is so much more than just a paycheck.“It's about dignity and respect. Joe learned that lesson from his father and I learned it from my mother.“My mother taught me in her words and in her actions that no matter how you earn a living, whether you're a caregiver or a truck driver or a grocery store clerk or a small business owner, every job has inherent value and worth, and every worker everywhere has a right to earn a living wage, work in safe and healthy conditions and pursue a better life for themselves and their family,” Harris said.After her parents divorced, Harris was raised in the US primarily by her Hindu single mother Shyamala Gopalan, a cancer researcher and civil rights activist from Chennai.Right now, the dignity of an honest day's work and the financial stability of a steady income are out of reach for millions of Americans. The December jobs report makes that very clear, she said.Food banks are being strained trying to feed people who've had to worry for the first time in their lives about where they can find their next meal. Essential workers continue to risk their own health and the health of their families for all, she said.“Small business owners from restaurants to barber shops to dry cleaners are hurting. Those who run America's small businesses are not just business leaders, but civic leaders, community leaders. They are the ones who sponsored the Little League team and scholarships for local kids and all kinds of local causes and activities. They are the ones who are role models in their communities. And we've got to do right by them.“So, first and foremost as the president elect has said, we will provide more immediate relief. We must for working families and businesses now. And even as we address our immediate crises, even as we work to contain this pandemic and open our economy responsibly, we must also do what President-elect Biden and I have pledged to do,” she said.Harris said that she and Biden share a vision of America where opportunity is within the reach for all the people, where everyone can see a better and a brighter future for themselves and for their children.“With the leadership of these public servants and our entire economic team, we will get to work building that America less than two weeks from today,” she added.The US, due to the coronavirus pandemic, experienced an unprecedented unemployment rate as millions of Americans lost their jobs.The country's unemployment rate for April 2020 was 14.7 per cent, the highest since 1948.The economy had lost 22.1 million jobs in March and April when most parts of the US were under lockdown due to the coronavirus outbreak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/need-to-build-back-us-economy-better-so-that-it-lifts-up-everyone-kamala-harris-101610188695100.html
09-01-2021||World||Hong Kong warns probe against those who help pro-democracy protesters escape||The Hong Kong Government, under the draconian National Security Law, has warned that the police would investigate anyone who helps an "offender" to abscond from Hong Kong after reports emerged that the city was looking into prosecuting two Danish politicians who aided former opposition lawmaker Ted Hui Chi-fung as he fled to Europe.South China Morning Post citing Danish reports, reported that the government was also examining the possibility of extraditing politicians Uffe Elbaek and Katarina Ammitzboll, as they had helped Hui head to Denmark at the end of November.The incident, which has already provoked a strong response from Beijing, could trigger a diplomatic row between Denmark and China.The Security Bureau in Hong Kong did not confirm the report, saying only that Hui, who had been prosecuted for various criminal offences, had openly jumped court bail and absconded.The bureau stated that he is an offender who fabricated false reasons and lied to the court in an attempt to abscond added to the severity of his crime."In light of the circumstances of each case, the police will track down the whereabouts of the fugitive offenders through various means in accordance with the law and pursue them," the bureau told the Post.It added, "Wherever any person, regardless of his nationality, is suspected of having committed a crime in organising, planning or aiding the absconding, or in such criminal conspiracy, the police will actively investigate and pursue their legal liabilities under the existing legal framework."Out on bail and facing a raft of criminal charges related to pro-government protests that broke out in 2019, the former lawmaker left Hong Kong for Denmark on November 30.The draconian national security law also applies to offences committed against Hong Kong outside the city by a person who is not a permanent resident.Beijing last month accused Danish politicians of harbouring 'criminals' and meddling in China's domestic affairs by supporting Hui, according to South China Morning Post."We oppose having any individual in any country interfering in Hong Kong's matters and China's domestic affairs in any way, and harbouring criminals," foreign ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying said.Hui faces nine charges including one count of being involved in an act intended to pervert the course of justice, as well as two counts of obtaining access to a computer with dishonest intent, and criminal damage over a protest in Tuen Mun.According to the draconian security law, a principal offender convicted of subversion faces imprisonment of 10 years to life, while an "active participant" can be sentenced to between three and 10 years' jail, while a minor can face a fixed term of not more than three years' imprisonment or short-term detention or restriction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/hong-kong-warns-probe-against-those-who-help-pro-democracy-protesters-escape-101610187868453.html
09-01-2021||World||Blizzard covers Spain in white, brings Madrid to standstill||An unusual and persistent blizzard has blanketed large parts of Spain with snow, freezing traffic and leaving thousands trapped in cars or in train stations and airports that had suspended all services as the snow kept falling on Saturday.The capital, Madrid, and other parts of central Spain activated for the first time a red weather alert, the highest, and called in the military to rescue people from vehicles trapped on everything from small roads to the city's major thoroughfares.The national AEMET weather agency had warned that some regions would be receiving more than 24 hours of continuous snowfall due to the odd combination of a cold air mass stagnant over the Iberian Peninsula and the arrival of the warmer Storm Filomena from the south.AEMET had said that up to 20 centimeters (nearly 8 inches) of snow could accumulate in large parts of the country but the build-up reached more than 50 centimeters even in urban areas. The storm is expected to move northeast throughout Saturday, the agency said.Carlos Novillo, head of the Madrid emergency agency, said that more than 1,000 vehicles had become trapped, mostly on the city's ring road and the main motorway that leads from the capital to the south, toward the Castilla La Mancha and Andalucia regions.“The situation remains of high risk. This is a very complex phenomenon and a critical situation," Novillo said Saturday morning in a message posted on social media.“We ask all those who remain trapped to be patient, we will get to you," he added.Airport operator AENA said that the Adolfo Suárez Madrid-Barajas International Airport, the main gateway in and out of the country, would remain closed throughout the day after the blizzard bested machines and workers trying to keep the runways clear of snow.All trains into and out of Madrid, both commuter routes and long-distance passenger trains, as well as railway lines between the south and the northeast of the country, were suspended, railway operator Renfe said.The storm had caused serious disruptions or closed altogether over 430 roads by Saturday morning, according to Spain’s transit authorities, which urged people to stay indoors and avoid all non-essential travel.The wintry weather even halted the country's soccer league, with some of the La Liga top teams unable to travel for games. A flight to Madrid carrying players of the current leader in the championship, Athletic Bilbao, had to return to the Bilbao airport, while the second-place Real Madrid team was unable to take off for its match against Osasuna on Saturday night.The blizzard also yielded unusual images for many Madrileños, including a few brave people heading out with their ski gear on a main commercial avenue and in the central Puerta del Sol square, and even a dog sled that was seen on videos widely circulated on social media.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/blizzard-covers-spain-in-white-brings-madrid-to-standstill-101610185832689.html
09-01-2021||World||Billionaires who championed Donald Trump have now gone largely quiet||They bankrolled Donald Trump. They applauded his tax cuts. They cheered as the stock market soared. Now, the sound coming from some of the president’s wealthiest donors is this: silence.As chaos engulfs the White House and Democrats talk of impeachment, few of these billionaires have much to say about the president they showered with many millions in campaign contributions.“I’m sorry, I am not available right now,” wrote venture capitalist Peter Thiel. No thank you, said Thomas Peterffy, who controls Interactive Brokers Group Inc. Richard LeFrak, the New York real estate magnate, said through a spokesman he’s not doing press at the moment.And Andy Beal, the Texas banking billionaire, couldn’t comment because, “he doesn’t know what happened,” according to his assistant. “He wasn’t there and he doesn’t believe mainstream news reporting anymore.”Only a handful of the two dozen or so of Trump’s wealthiest donors contacted by Bloomberg News left statements or declined to comment; most didn’t respond. A few published statements. No one agreed to be interviewed on the record.Financial DonorsMany among the world’s ultra-wealthy tend to air political leanings through financial contributions rather than words. But their silence echoes particularly loudly this week as a final act of a turbulent presidency turned into mayhem that sent shock waves around the globe.On Thursday, Democratic lawmakers urged Trump’s cabinet to immediately remove him from office and threatened to impeach him a second time if they don’t act. They accused him of inciting the crowd that breached the Capitol. The riots have left five people dead, including one police officer.A few of Trump’s supporters spoke out against the violence, including Blackstone Group Inc. founder Stephen Schwarzman, who contributed more money to Trump’s re-election bid than anyone else in high finance.“The insurrection that followed the president’s remarks today is appalling and an affront to the democratic values we hold dear as Americans,” Schwarzman said in a statement. “I am shocked and horrified by this mob’s attempt to undermine our constitution. As I said in November, the outcome of the election is very clear and there must be a peaceful transition of power.”‘Worst Elements’“I unambiguously condemn the thugs and criminals who yesterday epitomized the worst elements of society by vandalizing the sacred halls and chambers of Congress, together with all who incited and abetted their unconscionable violence,” said Ronald Lauder, the billionaire chairman of Estee Lauder Cos. and a Trump donor.Lauder’s statement, which he made in has capacity as president of the World Jewish Congress, didn’t specifically mention Trump.The National Association of Manufacturers, through its chief executive officer, Jay Timmons, on Wednesday called on Vice President Mike Pence to consider invoking the 25th Amendment, which could eject Trump from office before the Jan. 20 transition.Harold Hamm, the oil titan who’s a Trump confidante, sits on the board of the trade association. He didn’t return requests for comment.Also silent were Richard and Liz Uihlein, owners of Uline Inc., who’ve poured tens of millions into conservative causes in recent years. Hedge fund manager John Paulson didn’t respond to a message seeking comment, nor did Charles Dolan, whose family controls the Madison Square Garden companies.More SuccinctOthers were succinct in their thoughts. Ken Fisher of Fisher Investments wrote that Wednesday’s events were “sickening behavior in so many ways and a tragedy.”And Nelson Peltz, who organized a fundraiser for the president last year, said in a joint statement with his two co-founders of Trian Fund Management that they “condemn President Trump’s efforts to overturn the election results.”In a Thursday interview with CNBC, Peltz was even more blunt: “I voted for him in this past election in November. Today I’m sorry I did that.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/billionaires-who-championed-donald-trump-have-now-gone-largely-quiet-101610184312895.html
09-01-2021||World||Saudi king receives first dose of a coronavirus vaccine: Report||Saudi King Salman received a first dose of a coronavirus vaccine on Friday in the NEOM economic zone, the state news agency SPA said.The agency posted two pictures and a short video that showed a medical staff injecting the king with the vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/saudi-king-receives-first-dose-of-a-coronavirus-vaccine-report-101610184129166.html
09-01-2021||World||'Won’t defend him anymore': Some Republicans begin to flee from Trump||President Donald Trump's steadfast grip on Republicans in Washington is beginning to crumble, leaving him more politically isolated than at any other point in his turbulent administration.After riling up a crowd that later staged a violent siege of the US Capitol, Trump appears to have lost some of his strongest allies, including South Carolina Sen. Lindsey Graham. Two Cabinet members and at least a half dozen aides have resigned. A handful of congressional Republicans are openly considering whether to join a renewed push for impeachment.One GOP senator who has split with Trump in the past called on him to resign and questioned whether she would stay in the party.“I want him out,” Sen. Lisa Murkowski of Alaska told The Anchorage Daily News. "He has caused enough damage.”The insurrection on the heels of a bruising election loss in Georgia accomplished what other low points in Trump's presidency did not: force Republicans to fundamentally reassess their relationship with a leader who has long abandoned tradition and decorum. The result could reshape the party, threatening the influence that Trump craves while creating a divide between those in Washington and activists in swaths of the country where the president is especially popular.“At this point, I won’t defend him anymore,” said Ari Fleischer, a former White House press secretary for George W. Bush and a GOP strategist who voted for Trump. “I won't defend him for stirring the pot that incited the mob. He's on his own.”When the week began, Trump was without question the most dominant political force in Republican politics and a 2024 kingmaker, if not the GOP’s next presidential nominee himself. On Friday, there was a growing sense that he was forever tarnished — and may be forced from office before his term expires in 12 days.Absent a resignation, calls for a second impeachment on Capitol Hill grew louder on Friday. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi said Congress would proceed with impeachment proceedings unless Trump leaves office “imminently and willingly.”President-elect Joe Biden isn't putting his weight behind the effort yet, suggesting there's not enough time between now and his Jan. 20 inauguration to pursue impeachment or any other constitutional remedy.“I am focused now, on us taking control as president and vice president, on the 20th and getting our agenda moving as quickly as we can,” Biden told reporters.Trump still has supporters, especially among the many rank-and-file Republican voters and conservative activists beyond Washington.On Thursday morning, there was loud applause and shouts of “We love you!” when Trump phoned into a breakfast meeting of the Republican National Committee in Florida.“The vast majority of the committee is in full denial,” said Republican National Committee member Bill Palatucci, of New Jersey, who attended the breakfast. “They’re willing to condemn the violence, but without any reference to the president’s role in any of it."The president insists he did nothing wrong. He continues to tell aides, privately at least, that the election was stolen from him. Republican officials in critical battleground states, his recently departed attorney general and a series of judges — including those appointed by Trump — have rejected those claims as meritless.Trump had to be convinced to record the video released Thursday night in which he finally condemned the rioters and acknowledged his November defeat for the first time, while initially pushing back at the prospect of speaking negatively of “my people."He ultimately agreed to record the video after White House counsel Pat Cipollone warned that he could face legal jeopardy for inciting the riot. Others, including chief of staff Mark Meadows and his daughter Ivanka Trump, urged Trump to send out a message that may quell the talk of his forcible ouster from office, either by impeachment or constitutional procedures outlined in the 25th Amendment.And while Trump acknowledged in the video that a new administration would take over on Jan. 20, he also said Friday that he would not attend Biden’s inauguration. That makes Trump the first outgoing president since Andrew Johnson 152 years ago to skip the swearing-in of his successor.Trump has no plans to disappear from the political debate once he leaves office, according to aides who believe he remains wildly popular among the Republican rank-and-file.Lest there be any doubt, Trump’s false claims about voter fraud in his November loss resonated with hundreds of thousands of Republican voters in Georgia's Senate runoff elections this week. About 7 in 10 agreed with his false assertion that Biden was not the legitimately elected president, according to AP VoteCast, a survey of more than 3,700 voters.Leading Republican pollster Frank Luntz has had extensive conversations with grassroots voters and Republican officials about Trump's standing since the siege.“The professionals are running away from a sinking ship, but his own supporters have not abandoned him, and they actually want him to fight on,” Luntz said. “He’s become the voice of God for tens of millions of people, and they will follow him to the ends of the earth and off the cliff.”And because of the voters' continued loyalty, elected officials in deep red areas must remain loyal to the outgoing president as well, even if his own Cabinet does not. In the hours after this week's riot, 147 Republicans in Congress still voted to reject Biden's victory, including eight senators.The dramatic split in the party is reflected within the divergent paths adopted by the early slate of 2024 Republican presidential prospects.Sens. Josh Hawley, of Missouri, and Ted Cruz, of Texas, embraced Trump's calls to reject Biden's victory before and after the mob attack. Arkansas Sen. Tom Cotton resisted Trump's wishes, drawing an angry tweet from the president earlier in the week.Such attacks didn't carry as much weight at the end of the week as they once did given Trump’s weakened political state. On Thursday, Cotton chastised Republican colleagues like Hawley and Cruz, who had given voters “false hope” that Trump's November loss could be overturned.Nikki Haley, who served as the US ambassador to the United Nations under Trump, tried to toe the line as she condemned Trump's actions this week during a closed-door meeting with the Republican National Committee.She lauded some of Trump’s accomplishments but predicted that, “His actions since Election Day will be judged harshly by history."Meanwhile, there is no clear path for the Republican Party without Trump. Speaking to reporters on Friday, even Biden raised concerns about the health of the GOP.“We need a Republican Party,” Biden said, noting that he spoke with Republican Sen. Mitt Romney, a leading Trump critic. “We need an opposition that’s principled and strong.”Meanwhile, Trump has been plotting ways to retain his political clout once he moves from the White House to his Florida estate, Mar-a-Lago, later in the month.Believing his supporters will stick with him no matter what, he has continued to discuss encouraging primary challenges against Republicans who haven't been sufficiently loyal to him. And he has hinted publicly and privately that he will likely challenge Biden in a 2024 rematch, though losing his powerful Twitter account — which was or using xenophobia to malign a country permanently shut down by the company on Friday — could complicate his efforts to rule the Republican party by fear.Doug Deason, a Texas-based donor who served on the Trump campaign's finance committee, said this week's events have done nothing to shake his confidence in the Republican president.“He has been the best President in my lifetime, including Reagan,” Deason said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/wont-defend-him-anymore-some-republicans-begin-to-flee-from-trump-101610181887763.html
09-01-2021||World||New Covid-19 variant found in eight US states: Official data||A new, more infectious strain of the coronavirus has now spread to at least eight US states, official data showed Friday, as the country logged a record new daily virus caseload.The B117 coronavirus strain, which emerged in Britain late last year, has been shown to be between 40 and 70 percent more contagious than variants which have spread previously.Data from the US Centers for Disease Control (CDC) showed Friday that the strain -- first reported in the US last week -- has been detected in eight states, with California and Florida the worst affected.The strain has also been found in Colorado, Texas, New York, Georgia, Connecticut and Pennsylvania, in a total of 63 cases.Top US infectious disease expert Anthony Fauci told Newsweek on Wednesday that the variant may be "more widespread in the United States than we are currently detecting it to be"."I'm certain it's here, we just haven't detected it yet. And I think it's pretty clear that if it's in places like California, and New York and Colorado... that pretty soon it's going to be in several more states," he said.The spread of B117 and another more infectious variant from South Africa, known as B1351, has sparked fears of a similar new strain emerging in the US.But US officials on Friday denied reports that one had been detected so far."Researchers have been monitoring US strains since the pandemic began, including 5,700 samples collected in November and December," CDC spokesman Jason McDonald told CNBC."To date, neither researchers nor analysts at CDC have seen the emergence of a particular variant in the United States as has been seen with the emergence of B.1.1.7 in the United Kingdom or B.1.351 in South Africa."Almost 290,000 new coronavirus infections were reported in the US within 24 hours Friday according to Johns Hopkins University, a day after the world's worst-hit country recorded a daily high of nearly 4,000 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/new-covid-19-variant-found-in-eight-us-states-official-data-101610183284425.html
09-01-2021||World||French Covid-19 vaccine rollout slowed by focus on elderly, red tape||The few hours it took to give the first coronavirus vaccine shots to 14 residents of the John XXIII nursing home — named after a pope and not far from the birthplace in eastern France of vaccine pioneer Louis Pasteur — took weeks of preparation.The home's director, Samuel Robbe, first had to chew his way through a dense 61-page vaccination protocol, one of several hefty guides from the French government that exhaustively detail how to proceed, down to the number of times (10) that each flask of vaccine should be turned upside down to mix its contents.“Delicately,” the booklet stipulates. “Do not shake." As France tries to figure out why its vaccination campaign launched so slowly, the answer lies partly in forests of red tape and the decision to prioritize vulnerable older people in nursing homes. They are perhaps the toughest group to start with, because of the need for informed consent and difficulties explaining the complex science of fast-tracked vaccines.Claude Fouet, still full of vim and good humor at age 89 but with memory problems, was among the first in his Paris care home to agree to a vaccination. But in conversation, it quickly becomes apparent that his understanding of the pandemic is spotty. Eve Guillaume, the home's director, had to remind Fouet that in April he survived his own brush with the virus that has killed more than 66,000 people in France.“I was in hospital,” Fouet slowly recalled, “with a dead person next to me.” Guillaume says that getting consent from her 64 residents — or their guardians and families when they are not fit enough to agree themselves — is proving to be the most labor-intensive part of her preparations to start inoculations later this month. Some families have said no, and some want to wait a few months to see how vaccinations unfold before deciding.“You can't count on medicalized care homes to go quickly,” she says. “It means, each time, starting a conversation with families, talking with guardians, taking collegial steps to reach the right decision. And that takes time.” At the John XXIII home, between the fortified town of Besancon and Pasteur's birthplace in Dole, Robbe has had a similar experience.After the European Union green-lighted use of the BioNTech-Pfizer vaccine in December, Robbe says it took two weeks to put together all the pieces to this week vaccinate 14 residents, just a fraction of his total of more than 100.Getting consent was the biggest hurdle for a doctor and a psychologist who went from room to room to discuss vaccinations, he says. The families of residents were given a week over the December holidays to approve or refuse, a decision that had to be unanimous from immediate family members.When one woman's daughter said yes but her son said no, a shot wasn't given because “they can turn against us and say, 'I never agreed to that,'” Robbe explained. “No consensus, we don't vaccinate.” Only by cutting corners and perfunctorily getting residents to agree could the process go quicker, he says.“My friends are saying, 'What is this circus? The Germans have already vaccinated 80,000 people and we've vaccinated no one,'" he says. "But we don't share the same histories. When you propose a vaccine to Germans, they all want to get inoculated. In France, there is a lot of reticence about the history of vaccinations. People are more skeptical. They need to understand.They need explications and to be reassured.” France prioritized nursing homes because they have seen nearly one-third of its deaths. But its first vaccination on Dec. 27, of a 78-year-old woman in a long-term care facility, quickly proved to have been only the symbolic launch of a rollout that the government never intended to get properly underway before this week.Only on Monday, as scheduled, did authorities launch an online platform where health workers must log all vaccinations and show that those inoculated got an obligatory consultation with a doctor, adding to the red tape.In some countries that are moving faster than France, the bureaucracy is leaner. In Britain, where nearly 1.5 million have been inoculated and plans are to offer jabs to all nursing home residents by the end of January, those capable of consenting need only sign a one-page form that gives basic information about the benefits and possible side effects.No doctor interviews are needed in Spain. It started vaccinating the same day as France but administered 82,000 doses in the first nine days, whereas France managed just a couple of thousand.Germany, like France, also mandates a meeting with a doctor and is prioritizing shots for care home residents, but it is getting to them quicker, using mobile teams. At its current rate of nearly 30,000 vaccinations per day, Germany would need at least six years to inoculate its 69 million adults.But while the German government is facing criticism for the perceived slow rollout, France made an even more leisurely start, at least in numerical terms, but has pledged to reach 1 million people by the end of January.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/french-covid-19-vaccine-rollout-slowed-by-focus-on-elderly-red-tape-101610182783827.html
09-01-2021||World||China issues rules to stop ‘unjustified’ use of foreign laws||China issued new rules to block its companies and citizens from having to follow “unjustified” foreign laws and measures, in its latest riposte to US restrictions on businesses like ByteDance Ltd.’s TikTok.The rules on “counteracting unjustified extra-territorial application” of foreign legislation and other measures are effective immediately and allow authorities to ban the imposition of other jurisdictions’ laws on Chinese entities when it deems them inappropriate, the Ministry of Commerce said in a statement on its website on Saturday. China’s move aims to protect “normal trade” and other activities, it said.The new order will be enforceable in China but it will be difficult to use for activities outside of the country, Nicholas Turner, a lawyer at Steptoe & Johnson LLP in Hong Kong who specializes in economic sanctions, said Saturday.“It remains to be seen whether activities outside of China will be caught or whether China will be effective at discouraging companies from complying with US sanctions in the region or elsewhere,” Turner saidThe Chinese move comes as outgoing US President Donald Trump extends his campaign against Chinese companies in his final days in office, further straining ties between the world’s two largest economies.Banned TransactionsTrump earlier this month banned transactions with Chinese apps like Ant Group Co.’s Alipay and Tencent Holdings Ltd.’s digital wallets, adding to a prior push to force the sale of TikTok by ByteDance. The New York Stock Exchange has also become involved, heeding calls from the Trump administration to delist certain Chinese companies traded on its bourse.Beijing also repeatedly pressured Canada to release Meng Wanzhou, daughter of Huawei Technologies Co.’s billionaire founder Ren Zhengfei, after she was detained by Canadian authorities over a year ago under the request of the US government.Many companies will continue to “err on the side of complying with US law because of Washington’s history of aggressive enforcement,” Turner said. The China order “does not alter U.S. companies’ obligations to comply with sanctions or other laws. Companies with significant business interests in China may need to tread carefully.”The growing list of improper use of foreign laws overseas has “continuously disrupted the rules-based multilateral trade system and caused negative impact on the global economic recovery,” the commerce ministry said in a separate statement, citing Han Liyu, a law professor at the Renmin University of China.A new working mechanism involving the commerce ministry and the top planning agency will oversee the assessment of such cases, and decisions will be based on considerations like whether international law has been violated and the potential impact on China’s sovereignty and the “legitimate rights” of Chinese entities, according to the statement.Companies and citizens can sue in Chinese courts for compensation of losses incurred from foreign rulings deemed as unjustified under the new rules, the ministry said.China isn’t unique in using such measures, as similar legislation has been in place in the European Union and countries like Canada and Mexico, Han said.“The fact that China hasn’t had a clear mechanism until now to block the effect of foreign sanctions is itself notable,” Turner said. “The EU blocking statute has been in place since 1996. Russia and other countries have similar measures.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-issues-rules-to-stop-unjustified-use-of-foreign-laws-101610181880123.html
09-01-2021||World||Kim Jong Un says Inter-Korean unification dream now further away||Inter-Korean relations are on the brink of catastrophe with prospects for unification now dimmer than they were before the historic 2018 summit, North Korean leader Kim Jong Un has told the 8th ruling party congress.On Friday, Kim continued delivering his report as the 8th Congress of the Workers' Party of Korea entered the fourth day.According to the Korean Central News Agency (KCNA), the report has pointed out that inter-Korean relations have reached a crossroads. The two countries should rectify the current state of affairs and move toward peace and unification, otherwise the confrontation will intensify and relations will freeze, and the sides will experience the "pain of division" in an atmosphere of a "threat of war," the agency reported."It is no exaggeration to say that North-South relations have now returned to the pre-[2018] Panmunjom Declaration state, the dream of unification is now even further away," Kim said in the report.According to Pyongyang, Seoul continues its hostile activities and rhetoric toward the North, which makes the future of inter-Korean relations "hazy." The problem at the same time cannot be solved at the level of ordinary people, and it "will not disappear by itself" over time."If [South Korea] really wants peace and unification and is concerned about the future and the fate of the nation and future generations, it should not just look on this serious situation and should take active measures to resolve and improve existing inter-Korean relations, which are on the verge of disaster," the report added.North Korea expects the South to demonstrate "sincerity" in relations, which includes the cessation of joint drills with the United States and hostile actions as well as the implementation of all inter-Korean agreements, according to the report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/kim-jong-un-says-inter-korean-unification-dream-now-further-away-101610181907591.html
09-01-2021||World||Trump to blame for death of woman trampled in Capitol riot, family member says||The brother-in-law of a woman killed during Wednesday's assault on the US Capitol by a mob seeking to overturn President Donald Trump's election loss said he blames Trump for the riot, and has joined calls for him to be removed from office.Rosanne Boyland, a 34-year-old resident of Kennesaw, Georgia, was one of four civilians who died in the rioting, according to Washington, DC police. A Capitol Police officer also died from injuries in the melee.Police did not disclose the cause of Boyland's death.However, Justin Winchell, a friend who accompanied Boyland to a Trump rally near the White House and marched with her to the Capitol, told Atlanta CBS affiliate WGCL that she was trampled to death in a massive crowd surge when protesters clashed with Capitol Police."I got my arm underneath her, that was pulling her out - pulling her out - and then another guy fell on top of her and another guy was just walking" over her, he said. "I mean, there was people crushed."Boyland's brother-in-law, Justin Cave, told Atlanta media that his wife, Boyland's sister, had tried to persuade her not to attend the Trump rally in Washington.Boyland was "passionate about her beliefs" and support of Trump and the family was grieving for others killed and injured in the rioting, he told https://twitter.com/aungeliquefox5/status/1347325983393800194 a local Fox television reporter."I've never tried to be a political person, but it's my own personal belief that the president's words incited a riot that killed four of his biggest fans last night and I believe that we should invoke the 25th Amendment at this time," Cave said.A White House spokesman did not respond to a request for comment about Boyland's death.Asked if Trump was to blame for his friend's death, Winchell said: "Does he have blood on his hands? No!"Trump urged his supporters to come to Washington for the rally Wednesday, the day the US House of Representatives and Senate were scheduled to certify his election loss to Joe Biden, then told them to walk to the Capitol "to fight."Under the 25th Amendment, a president can be forcibly removed from power if the vice president and a majority of cabinet members agree that the president is unfit for office. Democratic leaders in Congress have called for immediate impeachment proceedings if Vice President Mike Pence and Trump's Cabinet fail to seek to remove Trump from power.Washington, DC, police on Thursday said that three other civilians were killed in the rioting on Wednesday.Ashli Babbitt, a 35-year-old California native, was shot by a Capitol Police officer in an incident that DC police are investigating. Babbitt, a USAir Force veteran, had embraced far-fetched right-wing conspiracy theories, according to her social media activity.New video https://twitter.com/bellingcat/status/1347428500530204674 of the moments leading to Babbitt's shooting emerged on Friday, showing a plainclothes officer fire in a chaotic scene as Babbitt attempted to enter the Speaker's Lobby outside the House of Representatives chamber through a smashed glass partition.Other deathsDC Police also said Kevin Greeson, 55, of Athens, Alabama, and Benjamin Phillips, 50, of Ringtown, Pennsylvania, died after experiencing medical emergencies.A statement released by Greeson's family to local media said that the avid motorcycle rider had suffered a heart attack."Kevin was an advocate of President Trump and attended the event on Jan. 6 to show his support. He was excited to be there to experience this event," according to the statement quoted in The News Courier in Athens.Phillips, a computer programmer, died of a stroke, the Philadelphia Inquirer reported.Also killed was Capitol Police officer Brian Sicknick, 40, who suffered a stroke after injuries sustained "while physically engaging with protesters" the department said.(Reporting by David Lawder; Editing by Heather Timmons, Andrea Ricci and Daniel Wallis)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-to-blame-for-death-of-woman-trampled-in-capitol-riot-family-member-says-101610178155109.html
09-01-2021||World||Twitter boots prominent Donald Trump allies in QAnon crackdown||Twitter Inc said on Friday it would permanently suspend accounts pushing QAnon content, banning prominent right-wing boosters of its conspiracy theories including Michael Flynn and Sidney Powell following Wednesday's storming of the U.S. Capitol by supporters of President Donald Trump.Flynn, a former national security adviser to Trump, and Powell, a former Trump campaign lawyer, have both been close allies of the president and promoted efforts to cast doubt about his defeat in the 2020 presidential election.Twitter also suspended Ron Watkins, the administrator of fringe message board 8kun, which effectively serves as home base for the QAnon conspiracy movement."Given the renewed potential for violence surrounding this type of behavior in the coming days, we will permanently suspend accounts that are solely dedicated to sharing QAnon content," Twitter said in a statement.QAnon followers espouse an intertwined series of far-fetched beliefs based on anonymous web postings from "Q", who claims to have insider knowledge of the Trump administration.At the core of the baseless conspiracy theories embraced by QAnon is the idea that Trump is secretly fighting a cabal of child-sex predators that includes prominent Democrats, Hollywood elites and "deep state" allies.QAnon has been amplified on Twitter, Facebook, Instagram and YouTube, the video streaming service of Alphabet Inc's Google. Its adherents were among those who participated in the Capitol siege that left five people dead.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/twitter-boots-prominent-donald-trump-allies-in-qanon-crackdown-101610178378688.html
09-01-2021||World||Joe Biden to unveil trillions in pandemic economic relief spending next week||US President-elect Joe Biden said Americans need more economic relief from the coronavirus pandemic now and that he will deliver a plan costing "trillions" of dollars next week.Biden, introducing several members of his economic team, spoke on Friday after data showed the US economy lost jobs for the first time in eight months in December as a resurgent Covid-19 pandemic shuttered restaurants and other businesses.He said the proposal includes relief for state and local governments grappling with the pandemic, as well as new support for people who lost their jobs or cannot afford rent.Biden also called for raising the minimum wage to $15, a campaign promise, and for sending out $2,000 in direct cash payments. Democrats sought those cash payouts in the last relief bill, passed in December, but only were able to get Republicans to agree to $600."We need more direct relief flowing to families, small businesses, including finishing the job of getting people that $2,000 relief direct payment. $600 is simply not enough," he said.Biden said he would unveil the plan on Thursday.The Democrat, who takes office on Jan. 20, emerged emboldened from a pair of Senate elections this week in Georgia that handed Democrats a majority in that chamber to complement control of the House of Representatives. The majorities could allow Biden to pass larger spending bills.Biden's initial plan was for a bill under $1 trillion but he said on Friday that "economic research confirms that with conditions like the crisis today, especially with such low interest rates, taking immediate action - even with deficit financing - is going to help the economy."Speaking to reporters as he announced his nominees to head the Commerce and Labor departments, the president-elect said action was needed to help Americans get to the other side of the health and economic crisis, and to "avoid a broader economic cost that exists out there, that will happen due to long term unemployment, hunger, homelessness and business failings."Markets have reacted quickly to expectations that government spending will rise since Democrats won the Georgia elections, with stock indexes rising and the interest investors demand on 10-year US Treasury bonds climbing to their highest levels since March.Yet Republicans and even some Democrats may be resistant to greater deficit-fueled spending, with Sen. Joe Manchin, a Democrat from West Virginia, among those who initially greeted the idea skeptically.Biden's transition team also said on Friday that they are looking into other economic relief actions they can take unilaterally, including extending a pause on repayments of federal student loans.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/joe-biden-to-unveil-trillions-in-pandemic-economic-relief-spending-next-week-101610178282440.html
09-01-2021||World||Biden calls Trump 'unfit' but doesn't endorse impeachment||President-elect Joe Biden says that President Donald Trump isn't “fit for the job,” but he repeatedly refused to endorse growing Democratic calls to impeach him a second time.House Speaker Nancy Pelosi said in a letter to members of her chamber that lawmakers could move as early as next week to impeach Trump for inciting a violent mob that overran the U.S. Capitol if the president didn't “immediately" resign. Pelosi and Democratic Senate leader Chuck Schumer also have called on Vice President Mike Pence and the Cabinet to invoke the 25th Amendment to force Trump from office — a process for stripping the president of his post and installing the vice president to take over.Addressing reporters in his home state of Delaware after an event Friday introducing some of his Cabinet choices, Biden noted that a key reason he ran for president was because he'd “thought for a long, long time that President Trump wasn’t fit for the job."“I’ve been saying for now, well, over a year, he’s not fit to serve,” Biden said. “He’s one of the most incompetent presidents in the history of the United States of America.”But he refused to back efforts to remove Trump from the White House and insisted that impeachment was up to Congress. Instead, Biden said he was focused on the start of his own administration on Jan. 20, and he said his top three priorities are beating back the coronavirus, distributing vaccines fairly and equitably and reviving the struggling economy.His comments laid bare the political balance Biden has worked to strike in the months since winning the presidential election. He has continued to sharply criticize Trump and nearly every facet of his administration but also worked to keep the public's attention focused on what the new administration will do rather than indulging recriminations against the last one.Biden nonetheless conceded that Trump “exceeded my worst notions about him. He’s been an embarrassment” and likened the "damage done to our reputation around the world" to “tin horn dictatorships.” The president-elect also suggested that a key hurdle to removing Trump was that he has less than two weeks remaining in his term.“If we were six months out, we should be doing everything to get him out of office. Impeaching him again, trying to evoke the 25th Amendment, whatever it took,” Biden said. “But I am focused now on us taking control as president and vice president on the 20th and to get our agenda moving as quickly as we can.”Trump would be the only president to be impeached twice. The House impeached him in late 2019, but the Republican-led Senate acquitted him. Removal from office could also prevent Trump from running for president in 2024, or ever holding the presidency again.Most Democrats, and many Republicans, put the blame squarely on Trump after hundreds of protesters broke into the Capitol on Wednesday and caused destruction and mass evacuations. The president had urged his supporters to protest as Congress was counting the electoral votes that confirmed Biden’s win. Five people died, including a Capitol Police officer.Biden called what happened a “god-awful debacle” and said it had “the active encouragement of the president of the United States.”The president-elect's comments came hours after Trump tweeted that he planned to skip Biden’s inauguration, becoming the first president in more than 150 years — and just the fourth in U.S. history — to do so. Biden said he'd be “honored” to have Pence at the swearing-in, but didn't feel the same way about Trump.That's "one of the few things he and I have ever agreed on," Biden said. “It's a good thing, him not showing up.”Also Friday, Biden called on the Senate — which Democrats won narrow control of thanks to a pair of runoff election victories in Georgia earlier this week — to confirm his Cabinet choices “promptly and fairly."“Given what our country’s been through the last few days," Biden said, "they should be confirmed as close to Jan 20 as possible.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biden-calls-trump-unfit-but-doesn-t-endorse-impeachment-101610177163442.html
09-01-2021||World||Laptop stolen from Pelosi's office during storming of US Capitol, says aide||A laptop was stolen from the office of U.S. House of Representatives Speaker Nancy Pelosi during the storming of the U.S. Capitol on Wednesday, one of her aides said on Friday.Drew Hammill, an aide to Democrat Pelosi, said on Twitter that the laptop belonged to a conference room and was used for presentations. He declined to offer further details.The theft of electronic devices from congressional offices has been a persistent worry following the invasion by pro-Trump followers. They were encouraged by Republican President Donald Trump at a rally beforehand to march to the Capitol while Congress was certifying Democrat Joe Biden's Nov. 3 election win.Senator Jeff Merkley, a Democrat, said on Twitter that a laptop was taken from his office. On Thursday, Acting U.S. Attorney Michael Sherwin said that some of the thefts might have potentially jeopardized what he described as "national security equities.""We just don't know the extent of that damage at this point," he said.The demonstrators who broke into the Capitol posted several photographs of themselves using congressional phones and various other devices. One reporter with the right-wing outlet Blaze posted a photograph of what purported to be a computer from Pelosi's office with emails "still on the screen."What else might have been taken during the chaos is not yet known. Some information technology experts worry that intruders may have planted malicious software on computers, although it's not clear that devices were the focus of any particular attention.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/laptop-stolen-from-pelosi-s-office-during-storming-of-us-capitol-says-aide-101610177068251.html
09-01-2021||World||Polls reveal 18 pc of Republicans support Capitol riots||Close to 18 percent of the Republicans support the pro-Trump rioters who stormed the Capitol on Wednesday in opposition to Congress's certification of President-elect Joe Biden's win according to a survey conducted by BS NewsHour/Marist released on Friday (local time).Citing the survey, The Hill reported that more than 800 adults were polled the day after the riots also found some common support among other GOP (alternate name for the Republican Party) also found that despite some support among GOP members, most Americans, approximately 88 percent, either opposed or strongly opposed the mob's actions."Nearly a fifth of Republicans -- 18 percent -- were in favor of Trump supporters breaking into the US Capitol, far more than the three percent of Democrats and seven percent of independents who felt the same," as reported by the survey.Those who surveyed were divided in their opinions on the level of President Donald Trump's responsibility in the riots, with 63 percent of those surveyed saying Trump deserves "a great deal or good amount of blame" for Wednesday's events. Among Republicans, 69 percent believe Trump is "at little or no fault"."Trump encouraged his supporters at a rally on Wednesday to march to the Capitol and challenge Congress's vote, repeating his disputed claims that the election was "stolen" from him and that there was widespread voter fraud," The Hill reported.Among those included in Friday's poll, 48 percent joined calls from some lawmakers for the President to be removed from office, while 49 percent opposed such a move.Among independents, about 51 percent believe Trump should remain in office with less than two weeks to go until President-elect Joe Biden's inauguration.A substantial majority, 90 percent of the respondents, believe the perpetrators of the riot, which saw participants breaking through windows of the Capitol and ransacking offices, should be prosecuted for their actions.The survey, with regard to the police's response to the events at Capitol Hill, reported that 56 percent of survey respondents believe that police were "not aggressive enough" in dealing with the rioters.Several injuries have been reported since Wednesday's events, and five people died amid the chaos, including a woman who was shot by a Capitol Police officer and an officer who died after suffering injuries while responding to the rioting. Both fatalities are under investigation.Lee Miringoff, director of The Marist Poll, said in a statement along with Friday's survey said "there is a consensus across party lines that the divisions that exist pose a threat to our democracy," with 81 percent of those surveyed agree with this sentiment as quoted by the American daily."But, Americans also believe we will dig ourselves out of this crisis, and the democracy will survive," Miringoff added, as more than seven in 10 of those surveyed say they still believe in the strength of American democracy.A chaotic and violent scene erupted at the Capitol on Wednesday as supporters of Trump stormed the building to protest the Electoral College vote, forcing a lockdown and various confrontations with police. Four people died in the melee.Wednesday's violence came hours after Trump encouraged his supporters to fight against the election results as Congress was certifying Biden's victory in the November vote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/polls-reveal-18-pc-of-republicans-support-capitol-riots-101610176416971.html
09-01-2021||World||World’s least favored stocks shine in 2021 after Brexit deal||Just as the U.K. enters another national lockdown, the stars are lining up for Britain’s long-suffering equities.Fresh from its worst annual drop in more than a decade, the benchmark FTSE 100 Index posted its best start to a year on record. It has rallied 6.4% so far in 2021, helped by a long-awaited Brexit deal and global growth optimism. Investors are also piling into the country’s exchange-traded funds.The trade deal with the European Union removed a key obstacle for U.K. assets just as the FTSE 100’s undervalued shares are in demand amid expectations of a global economic rebound. Many analysts and investors are looking beyond the latest pandemic restrictions, citing vaccine rollouts and the potential for more U.S. stimulus with Democrats in charge of Congress as reasons for their optimism about the longer-term outlook for equities.“The prevailing negative investor sentiment and discount valuations attached to U.K. equities now creates some interesting investment opportunities,” said Chris Dyer, director of global equity at Eaton Vance. “The future looks brighter for the U.K. market and U.K. equities, though investors must remember that Brexit will continue to be a drag on the U.K. economy for years to come.”Investors such as Toscafund Asset Management and Eaton Vance, as well as strategists at firms including Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Citigroup Inc. and UBS Group AG are bullish about British equities following the Brexit deal.Cyclical BoostMiners, energy shares and banks boosted the FTSE 100 in the year’s first week of trading. Investors backed cyclical sectors around the world on speculation additional U.S. stimulus will spur the economy under the Democrats, and oil surged after an OPEC+ compromise on production cuts. Index heavyweights such as Rio Tinto Group, Royal Dutch Shell Plc and BP Plc all rallied 13% or more.Heavy exposure to these sectors and a slew of global franchises make the FTSE 100 one of Europe’s best recovery prospects in 2021, according to Bloomberg Intelligence strategists Tim Craighead and Laurent Douillet. In a note last week, they called the market one of the “bastions of value” across the region.U.K. equities were the world’s most popular underweight for months, according to the Bank of America Corp. fund manager survey. Such has been the underperformance of U.K. stocks that they would need to rise by 80% relative to the world to return to their medium-term relative values, Toscafund Chief Economist Savvas Savouri wrote in a Jan. 6 note.Manulife Asset Management’s Nathan Thooft acknowledges U.K. equities are better off on an absolute basis, but is less confident they will overtake peers because many of the “obvious” positives -- low valuations and an index tilt toward cyclical and value themes -- are shared by other regions. The relative benefit of reduced Brexit uncertainty also hinges on the magnitude of the currency appreciation and value rotation, he said.“We expect both directionally but aren’t necessary pounding the table for massive moves,” Thooft, Manulife’s global head of asset allocation, said by email.Even so, investors have piled into U.K. ETFs since the Brexit trade deal. The largest such fund focused on the country’s shares, the iShares Core FTSE 100 UCITS ETF, saw inflows of 183 million pounds ($249 million) in the final week of 2020, the most since March.Shares exposed to the domestic economy were also in favor. The iShares FTSE 250 ETF saw record inflows in December, with investors bringing in almost 400 million pounds, and about 44 million pounds so far in January, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.“Part of this may be positioning for a relative value trade, where U.K. equities are seen as strong value investments based on fundamentals,” Citigroup analyst Kim D. Jensen wrote in a note, saying investors may also have been expecting that a weakening pound could support returns for euro- and dollar-based investors.As FTSE 250 firms’ revenues are more dependent on domestic economic conditions, the recent flows are also positioning for U.K. strength, Jensen added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/worlds-least-favored-stocks-shine-in-2021-after-brexit-deal-101610174374404.html
09-01-2021||World||Thousands defy Covid-19 risk in Manila to attend Nazarene feast||Tens of thousands of people ignored government advice and flocked to the Philippines capital Manila on Saturday to celebrate the feast of the Black Nazarene, a statue that is believed to have healing powers.Between 20,000 and 30,000 pilgrims gathered in the city’s Quiapo district, according to media reports. While only 400 at a time were allowed inside the church where the statue stands because of coronavirus restrictions, thousands others prayed outside the building, Rappler reported.More than a million people have taken part in the annual pilgramage over past years. On Saturday, most people appear to have heeded the advice of authorities and health experts, who urged devotees to stay home and attend mass online.The Philippines has the second-highest number of Covid-19 cases in Southeast Asia, at more than 480,000 as of Jan. 8.The feast of the Black Nazarene is one of the country’s biggest annual security challenges as the faithful of Asia’s most Catholic country troop to the capital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/thousands-defy-covid-19-risk-in-manila-to-attend-nazarene-feast-101610171605304.html
09-01-2021||World||EU secures deal to double Pfizer-BioNTech Covid-19 vaccine supply||The European Union (EU) has secured a deal to double the supply of the Pfizer-BioNTech Covid-19 vaccine, bringing its total to 600 million doses, President of the European Commission Ursula Von der Leyen said on Friday (local time)."We have right now, access to 300 million doses of the BioNTech-Pfizer vaccine. Now the good news is that we have agreed with BioNTech-Pfizer to extend the contract. With the new agreement, we could purchase a total of up to an additional 300 million doses of the BioNTech-Pfizer vaccine. In other words, this will allow us to double the number of doses of the BioNTech-Pfizer," she told a press conference.The additional doses will be delivered starting in the second quarter (Q2) of 2021, with 75 million being available in Q2 and the rest in Q3 and Q4.With the 600 million Pfizer-BioNTech doses and 160 million doses of Moderna vaccine, both authorised for conditional marketing in the EU, the bloc would have an amount enough to vaccinate 380 million Europeans, which is "more than 80 percent of the European population," noted Von der Leyen.Pledging that more brands will be given greenlight "in the coming weeks and months," Von der Leyen said the EU has so far secured up to 2.3 billion doses from the most promising vaccine candidates for the EU and its neighborhood.Addressing the criticism of the EU's slow start in the vaccine rollout when compared to Britain and the United States, Von der Leyen insisted that the EU has taken "the right course of action," explaining that her commission had to sift six from 160 vaccine candidates.She affirmed that the commission would be monitoring the vaccination process along with the European Center for Disease Prevention and Control. "Of course, we have to step up, it has to get more, we have to raise the numbers of vaccination rapidly," she admitted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/eu-secures-deal-to-double-pfizer-biontech-vaccine-supply-101610170049083.html
09-01-2021||World||Brazil's Bolsonaro asks India to expedite Covid vaccine shipment as delays loom||Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro asked Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi to expedite a shipment of AstraZeneca's Covid-19 vaccine amid broader delays to the vaccine's arrival in Brazil, according to a letter on Friday.Bolsonaro's letter, released by his press office, comes amid growing pressure to speed up Brazil's vaccine rollout and end the world's second-deadliest coronavirus outbreak. Critics say the immunization campaign is running behind regional peers, and they question why the government has not moved more quickly."To enable the immediate implementation of our National Immunization Program, I would appreciate ... the supply to Brazil, with the possible urgency and without jeopardizing the Indian vaccination program, of 2 million doses," Bolsonaro wrote in the letter, shared by his press office.His message to Modi comes as the federally funded Fiocruz biomedical center said on Friday that the active ingredients needed to fill and finish millions of doses of AstraZeneca's coronavirus vaccine in Brazil, previously slated to arrive in the country on Saturday, may not land until the end of the month.Fiocruz, which was counting on the shipment Saturday to supply the government with doses this month, said it was in talks to import more finished doses of the vaccine, likely from India on top of the 2 million it has already ordered.A source involved said the active ingredient is ready to be shipped to Brazil but is waiting for an export license from China, where it is produced.Earlier, Fiocruz requested an emergency use authorization for AstraZeneca vaccines coming from India, which are expected to arrive in Brazil in the middle of this month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/brazils-bolsonaro-asks-india-to-expedite-covid-vaccine-shipment-as-delays-loom-101610168848834.html
09-01-2021||World||House will move to impeach Trump if he doesn’t resign 'immediately': Pelosi||US House of Representatives Speaker Nancy Pelosi has said the House would move ahead with the process to impeach President Donald Trump for encouraging a mob that stormed the Capitol if he did not resign "immediately".Trump, who lost the November 3 elections, would be succeeded by Joe Biden on January 20 as mandated by the Constitution. However, Pelosi and the Democrats believe that in the aftermath of the incident of his supporters storming the Capitol on Wednesday, he should be removed from office immediately.Also Read | 'Conspiring to silence me': Trump after Twitter permanently suspends his account"It is the hope of members that the President will immediately resign. But if he does not, I have instructed the Rules Committee to be prepared to move forward with Congressman Jamie Raskin’s 25th Amendment legislation and a motion for impeachment," Pelosi said in a statement on Friday."Accordingly, the House will preserve every option – including the 25th Amendment, a motion to impeach or a privileged resolution for impeachment,” she said after the House Democratic Caucus had an hours-long discussion on the issue.Indian-American Congresswoman Pramila Jayapal said the impeachment proceedings should begin immediately. "Let’s do it right now," she said.Congressman Kaiali'i Kahele said he fully support removing Trump from office, either by invoking the 25th Amendment or bringing forth articles of impeachment against him."We cannot have a sitting president in office who incites violence among the people, or who tries to upend the American people's democratic process and right to a just election...his remarks in front of an agitated mob of his supporters that roused civil indignancy at the grounds of the US Capitol are unforgivable," he said.Every day Trump remains in the White House is another day America is unsafe, Kahele said.Also Read: Shocked by Capitol siege, more aides, GOP backers desert TrumpKahele is a co-sponsor of two resolutions of impeachment authored by fellow US members of Congress -- one sponsored by Representatives David Cicilline, Ted Lieu, and Jamie Raskin; and the other by Congresswoman Ilhan Omar.The resolution by Cicilline, Lieu and Raskin offers a single article of impeachment of abuse of power that covers both inciting violence against the US as well as Trump’s urging of Georgia’s Secretary of State to find votes.Omar’s resolution contains two articles of impeachment -- Trump's abuse of power and unlawful attempts to overturn the November 2020 presidential election; and his abuse of power to incite violence and orchestrate a coup against the country.Congressman Gregory Meeks, Chairman of the House Committee on Foreign Affairs, led Democratic members of the Committee in calling for the impeachment of Trump for instigating the attack on the Capitol.In a letter to Speaker Pelosi, the lawmakers underscored that the president’s actions have already emboldened demagogues around the world and holding him accountable is critical to help restore US global leadership on democracy and the rule of law."There is a foreign policy imperative to hold the President accountable for his actions — we must demonstrate to the world that no one in America is above the law...the Constitution demands that we, as members of the House of Representatives, use every tool at our disposal to safeguard our country and our democracy during this perilous time by holding to account those who would do them harm. That tool is impeachment," the members wrote.Congressman Adam Schiff alleged that by inciting the act of insurrection, Trump has committed his worst offence against the country and Constitution to date."The danger of him continuing to abuse his power will go up, not down, in the time remaining in his term. To protect the country from any further harm, he must leave office, immediately. The best course would be for him to resign...Failing that, the Vice President and Cabinet should invoke the 25th Amendment and remove him from any further performance of his duties,” he said.House Majority Leader Steny Hoyer also demanded that Trump be removed from office. "The Twenty-Fifth Amendment would be the quickest way to proceed, but Congress should consider impeachment if that Amendment is not invoked,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/house-will-move-to-impeach-trump-if-he-doesn-t-resign-immediately-pelosi-101610168755494.html
09-01-2021||World||North Korea's Kim calls US 'our biggest enemy' in challenge to Biden||North Korean leader Kim Jong Un called for more advanced nuclear weapons and said the United States is "our biggest enemy," state media said on Saturday, presenting a stark challenge to President-elect Joe Biden just days before he takes office.Washington's hostile policies would not change regardless of who occupies the White House but dropping those policies would be key to North Korea-U.S. relations, Kim said, according to state news agency KCNA."Our foreign political activities should be focused and redirected on subduing the U.S., our biggest enemy and main obstacle to our innovated development," Kim said during nine hours of remarks over several days at a rare party congress in Pyongyang."No matter who is in power in the U.S., the true nature of the U.S. and its fundamental policies towards North Korea never change," Kim said, vowing to expand ties with "anti-imperialist, independent forces."North Korea would not "misuse" its nuclear weapons, Kim said but the country is expanding its nuclear arsenal, including "preemptive" and "retaliatory" strike capabilities and warheads of varying sizes.Kim called for developing equipment including hypersonic weapons, solid-fuel intercontinental ballistic missiles (ICBMs), spy satellites, and drones.North Korea is preparing for the test and production of various new weapons, including a "multi-warhead rocket" and "supersonic gliding flight warheads for new type ballistic rockets," while research on a nuclear submarine is nearly complete, he said."Kim pretty much showed what's on his mind – submarine missiles, better ICBMs and other advanced arms," said Yoo Ho-yeol, professor of North Korean studies at Korea University in Seoul. "He is saying that’s basically what Washington will see going forward, which could escalate tension or open doors for talks.”Kim's remarks were one of the most ambitious outlines of North Korean national defence and nuclear matters in some time, said Ankit Panda, a senior fellow at the U.S.-based Carnegie Endowment for International Peace."It could presage a return to nuclear testing, which is now on the table given that Kim renounced his April 2018 moratorium," he said.U.S. TALKS STALLEDThere was no immediate comment from the U.S. State Department. A spokesman for the Biden campaign declined to comment.Kim criticised South Korea for offering cooperation in "non-fundamental" areas such as coronavirus aid and tourism, and said Seoul should stop buying arms from and conducting military drills with the United States.South Korea's Unification Ministry said it still hopes for a better North Korea-U.S. relations, and will continue to pursue the de-nuclearisation of the Korean peninsula."The inauguration of the new U.S. administration can be a good opportunity to improve U.S.-North Korea relations, and we expect relations to swiftly resume," the ministry said in a statement after Kim's comments were released.Biden, who was vice president under President Barack Obama, called Kim a "thug" during the election campaign. In 2019 North Korea called Biden a "rabid dog" that needed to be "beaten to death with a stick."Kim had three unprecedented meetings with President Donald Trump and the two corresponded in a series of letters, but those efforts failed to lead to a de-nuclearisation deal or official change in the countries' relations."North Korea is declaring the window for cooperation is much, much smaller for the Biden administration," Yoo said.Biden said in October that he would meet Kim only on the condition that North Korea agreed to draw down its nuclear capacity.Last month Kurt Campbell, the top U.S. diplomat for East Asia under Obama and considered a contender for a top Asia policy position under Biden, said the incoming U.S. administration would have to make an early decision on what approach it will take with North Korea and not repeat the delay of the Obama era.'SELF-RELIANCE'Besides U.S. and defence policy, Kim spoke at greater length on proposals for a five-year economic plan due to be announced at the congress, which he said would continue a focus on building an independent economy."The basic seeds and themes of the new five-year economic development plan are still self-reliance and self-sufficiency," he said.Among the plans are building energy-saving steel plants, significantly increasing chemical goods, boosting electricity production, and securing more coal mines, Kim said.The congress took steps toward "strengthening the united guidance and strategic management of the state over the economic work."North Korea faces growing crises caused by international sanctions over its nuclear programme, as well as self-imposed lockdowns to prevent a coronavirus outbreak."In practical terms, there's a disconnect between North Korea's dire internal economic situation and this ambitious nuclear and military modernisation agenda," Panda said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/north-korea-s-kim-calls-us-our-biggest-enemy-in-challenge-to-biden-101610168198761.html
09-01-2021||World||China: Over 4 million Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in emergency use||More than 4 million Covid-19 vaccine doses from China National Biotec Group (CNBG) have been administered as of Jan. 4 via China's emergency use program, the company's parent firm said late on Thursday.Two vaccines respectively from two institutes owned by CNBG, a unit of state-backed China National Pharmaceutical Group (Sinopharm), are included in China's emergency vaccination scheme, which was officially started in July targeting specific groups of people facing a high infection risk."No serious adverse reaction was reported in large-scale emergency use of Sinopharm's Covid-19 vaccines," Sinopharm said on Chinese social media WeChat.A total of 72,000 people have been overseas after receiving China's emergency jabs, including around 40% of more than 5,000 staffers on one Chinese firm's Pakistan-based project, Sinopharm said.None of the vaccinated diplomats, international organization representatives or employees at Chinese firms, who went to countries of high virus risk, contracted the Covid-19 disease caused by the new coronavirus, despite their close contact with infected locals, Sinopharm said.The firm did not break down the number of doses for each of the two vaccines used in the emergency program.Aside from CNBG's two vaccines, China's emergency use program also includes a potential shot from Sinovac Biotech. A fourth candidate from CanSino Biologics was approved for use in Chinese military personnel.The vaccine from CNBG's unit Beijing Institute of Biological Products was approved in China for broader use among the general public last year. The two-dose regimen is 79.34% effective against the disease, according to interim analysis from late-stage clinical trials overseas.Although the CNBG vaccine's protection rate is lower than the more than 90% efficacy of vaccines from Moderna Inc or Pfizer Inc and its partner BioNTech SE, it can be transported and stored at less demanding temperatures.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/chin-over-4-million-covid-19-vaccine-doses-administered-in-emergency-use-101610167963584.html
09-01-2021||World||Hong Kong blocks website on national security grounds: Report||Hong Kong police blocked a local website and cited the National Security Law for the first time in doing so, Ming Pao reported, citing police sources it didn’t identify.The National Security Department of the Hong Kong Police Force blocked hkchronicles.com, without specifying which content violated the law, according to Ming Pao. The website often features pro-democracy articles.Ming Pao reported that Hong Kong police declined to comment on individual cases on Friday, but the authority cited Article 43 of the National Security Law, which states the officers can order service providers to block access to electronic information deemed likely to constitute a crime endangering national security or result in such a crime. The police said they would take action in accordance with the law, depending on the circumstances.The national security law was imposed by Beijing on the former British colony in June, sparking international condemnation led by the U.S. that Beijing was reneging on promises to guarantee the city’s unique freedoms following its return to Chinese rule.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/hong-kong-blocks-website-on-national-security-grounds-report-101610167902570.html
09-01-2021||World||'Still preparing': China on WHO's visit to Wuhan for Covid-19 origin probe||China confirmed Saturday that preparations were still ongoing for a World Health Organization mission to Wuhan to investigate the origins of Covid-19, following a rare rebuke from the UN body over a delay to the long-planned trip.The comments came after the WHO chief said on Tuesday he was "very disappointed" that Beijing had yet to finalise permission even as the team of experts had begun travelling to China to explore the beginnings of the virus, which first emerged late last year in the central city.On Saturday, National Health Commission vice minister Zeng Yixin told reporters: "The specific time is being determined, and we are ready here.""As long as these experts complete the procedures and confirm their schedule, we will go to Wuhan together to carry out investigations," he said.Earlier in the week, Chinese authorities had refused to confirm details of the visit, a sign of the enduring sensitivity of the mission -- which has been beset with delays and politics.The WHO previously said China had granted permission for a visit by a 10-person team."We are currently waiting for WHO's experts to arrive, and have arranged for relevant expert groups to receive them," Zeng added.He expressed hope the WHO investigations could further understanding on the origins of the coronavirus.Asked about the effectiveness of vaccination against a coronavirus strain found in Britain that appeared to be more infectious, Zeng added: "Our vaccine has the same neutralising ability against such a mutant strain.""It seems that the mutation speed of the new coronavirus is still within an acceptable range, and the mutation speed is not particularly fast," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/still-preparing-china-on-who-s-visit-to-wuhan-for-covid-19-origin-probe-101610167439575.html
09-01-2021||World||China to provide Covid-19 vaccines free of charge||China will provide Covid-19 vaccines free of charge once they become available to general public, government authorities said on Saturday.National Health Commission official Zheng Zhongwei said that while manufacturing and transport of vaccines have costs, the government can provide vaccines for free to individuals."Our people don't have to pay a single cent for the vaccine," Zheng told a press event in Beijing.China in late December approved its first vaccine for general public use. Three vaccines had already been given to limited groups at high risk of infection, including medical workers, through an emergency-use program.The country widened the inoculation scheme in mid-December to more key groups such as employees in the food and public transport sectors, in an effort to stem a resurgence in the winter and spring.Those vaccinations are also free for individuals, said National Health Commission official Zeng Yixin."We had found some local governments had charged individuals fees, we...demanded immediate rectification," Zeng told the briefing, adding that currently local governments have since properly implemented the free vaccination policy.China has administered more than 9 million Covid-19 vaccine doses, Zeng said. Of that total, over 7 million were administered since mid-December.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-to-provide-covid-19-vaccines-free-of-charge-101610167171218.html
09-01-2021||World||NHS England plans to vaccinate frontline staff against Covid in next few weeks||NHS England said on Friday it had made plans to vaccinate all frontline staff against Covid-19 in the next few weeks following the rollout of the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine.Nikita Kanani, the Nation Health Service medical director for primary care, said the vaccine will be administered to "all health and social care staff" by mid-February.Prime Minister Boris Johnson said the NHS was under severe strain, as Britain recorded its highest daily death toll on Friday and London hospitals were at the risk of being overwhelmed.Britain has the world's fifth-highest Covid-19 death toll at nearly 80,000, and the 1,325 deaths reported within 28 days of a positive test on Friday surpassed April's record."From the middle of January, all NHS Trusts will be able to provide vaccinations for local healthcare and social care workers, which will be critical in keeping both them and patients safe," the NHS said in an emailed statement."The life-saving jab will be offered to all staff across NHS services, including those who work in general practices, pharmacies, dentists and other primary and secondary care settings," it said, adding that clinics will be scaled up to enable vaccinations seven days a week.A number of staff have already received their first dose of the vaccine.The NHS said it will prioritise the vaccination of its workers based on local risk assessments such as underlying health conditions and whether people are from Black, Asian and minority ethnic backgrounds.In a letter to NHS Trusts seen by Reuters, three key NHS England officials, including Kanani, said they were under an "immediate requirement to vaccinate frontline health and social care workers, ensuring maximum uptake of vaccination and timely, equitable access across staff groups".Britain, the first country to approve vaccines made by Pfizer/BioNTech and AstraZeneca, on Friday approved Moderna's shot, which it hopes to begin administering this spring.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/nhs-england-plans-to-vaccinate-frontline-staff-against-covid-in-next-few-weeks-101610166799191.html
09-01-2021||World||A farewell to @realDonaldTrump, gone after 57,000 tweets||@realDonaldTrump, the Twitter feed that grew from the random musings of a reality TV star into the cudgel of an American president, died Friday. It was not quite 12 years old.The provocative handle was given birth by a New York real estate tycoon who used it to help him become the 45th US president. It began with a May 4, 2009, tweet promoting Donald Trump's upcoming appearance on David Letterman's show.It died more than 57,000 tweets later, with Trump using some of his final postings on the powerful platform to commiserate with a pro-Trump mob that besieged the halls of Congress as lawmakers were set to certify his defeat.The account met its demise when Twitter announced Friday it was pulling the plug permanently on @realDonaldTrump, citing concern that Trump would use it for “further incitement of violence.” Trump retorted that he'd be "building out our own platform in the near future. We will not be SILENCED!"Trump, a novice politician but seasoned salesman, realized the power of social media in ways that few other politicians did. And he wielded it with never-before-seen power to diminish his opponents, shape elections and mold reality — at least in the eyes of his supporters.Early on, @realDonaldTrump seemed innocent enough. Its owner, who had prolific experience in marketing casinos, real estate and even Oreos, used the platform mostly to promote his books, media appearances and give friendly plugs to friends.But as Trump began seriously toying with a White House run, it became a tool to scorch opponents and give shape to his nationalist, “America First” philosophy.He deployed its venom equally, whether insulting celebrity enemies (Rosie O’Donnell was “crude, rude, obnoxious and dumb”) or entire countries (Britain is “trying hard to disguise their massive Muslim problem”).Peter Costanzo, then an online marketing director for the publishing company putting out Trump’s book, “Think Like a Champion,” helped bring Trump to the platform.Twitter was still in its infancy at the time. But Costanzo, who later came to work for The Associated Press, saw the then-140-character-per-message platform as a new tool that the real estate mogul could use to boost sales and reach a broader audience.Costanzo was given seven minutes to make his pitch to Trump — “Not five minutes, not 10,” he recalled in a 2016 interview.Trump liked what he heard.“I said, ‘Let’s call you @realDonaldTrump — you’re the real Donald Trump,’” recalled Costanzo. “He thought about it for a minute and said: ‘I like it. Let’s do it.’”Other than Trump’s family, no one seemed off limits from his Twitter wrath. Trump attacked Senate Republicans, Senate Democrats, 2016 political rivals, current administration staffers, former administration staffers, the Republican Party and cable networks.@realDonaldTrump was prolific: On days when its owner was particularly agitated, such as in the midst of impeachment proceedings, it pushed out more than 100 tweets.In its most popular tweet, on Oct. 2, 2020, @realDonaldTrump announced that Trump and first lady Melania Trump had contracted the coronavirus. The post got 1.8 million likes and nearly 400,000 retweets, according to Factba.se., which tracks the president’s social media habits and commentary.The account was used to announce firings. Secretary of State Rex Tillerson learned of his ouster in a tweet.The account threatened adversaries in the most colorful terms. Before Trump “fell in love” with North Korean dictator Kim Jong Un through secretly exchanged letters, Trump used Twitter to dub him “rocket man” and vowed to respond with “fire and fury” if the authoritarian dared attack the United States.@realDonaldTrump frequently spread misleading, false and malicious assertions, such as the baseless ideas that protesters at Justice Brett Kavanaugh’s confirmation hearings were paid by the liberal philanthropist George Soros and that November’s election was beset by voter fraud.Trump often tweeted well past midnight and before dawn, a cathartic outlet for grievances (Witch hunt! Crooked Hillary, Russia, Russia, Russia, FAKE NEWS, and so on.) For the most part, @realDonaldTrump and its 280-character posts effectively allowed Trump to work around the Washington media establishment and amplify the message of allies.Sometimes @realDonaldTrump stumbled. Trump deleted 1,166 tweets and, in his final months on the platform, had 471 tweets flagged by Twitter for misinformation, according to Factba.se.In one of his most memorable Twitter stumbles, Trump in May 2017 sent (and later deleted) a cryptic post-midnight tweet that read “Despite the constant negative press covfefe.”The gibberish set the Twitterverse afire with speculation. Theories included that the tweeter-in-chief had fallen asleep mid-message and that the man who once bragged of having “the best words” was adding a new word to the lexicon to properly describe collusion between Democrats and the press.The mystery was never solved.Sam Nunberg, a longtime — and now former — Trump adviser, said that in the summer of 2011, after Trump announced he wasn’t running in 2012 but wanted to remain relevant, his team decided to start using social media to boost his profile.They chose to focus on Twitter, where he already had an account and several hundred thousand followers. Nunberg remembers sending Trump daily reports on his follower growth. Trump would sometimes hand it back with hand-written notes — “Why not more?” “Why so slow?”They celebrated when they hit the million mark.“Twitter definitely played a pivotal role in building Donald Trump as a political figure within Republican politics and he also greatly enjoyed it,” said Nunberg. “Remember he used to say: ‘I wanted to own a newspaper. This is great, it’s like a newspaper without the losses.’”Trump’s eldest son, Donald Trump Jr., took to Twitter shortly after the platform banned @realDonaldTrump to note that it continues to allow Iran’s supreme leader “and numerous other dictatorial regimes” to use the platform, but cannot abide his father.“Mao would be proud,” Trump Jr. scoffed.In the end, @realDonaldTrump offered an in-the-moment peek into Trump's state of mind over more than a decade, a period in which the “Apprentice” TV star transformed into the 45th American president.Down the road, when historians look for a glimpse into Trump thoughts on the issues of his time -- anything from actress Kristen Stewart's treatment of co-star Robert Pattinson to the president's views on Russian meddling in the 2016 election — the first stop may inevitably be one of the many digital archives that have preserved the tweets of @realDonaldTrump.With Trump, whatever the topic, there's always a tweet for that.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/a-farewell-to-realdonaldtrump-gone-after-57-000-tweets-101610165904977.html
09-01-2021||World||Brazil President Bolsonaro asks India to expedite vaccine shipment||Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro asked Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi to expedite a shipment of AstraZeneca's Covid-19 vaccine amid broader delays to the vaccine's arrival in Brazil, according to a letter on Friday.Bolsonaro's letter, released by his press office, comes amid growing pressure to speed up Brazil's vaccine rollout and end the world's second-deadliest coronavirus outbreak. Critics say the immunization campaign is running behind regional peers, and they question why the government has not moved more quickly."To enable the immediate implementation of our National Immunization Program, I would appreciate ... the supply to Brazil, with the possible urgency and without jeopardizing the Indian vaccination program, of 2 million doses," Bolsonaro wrote in the letter, shared by his press office.His message to Modi comes as the federally funded Fiocruz biomedical center said on Friday that the active ingredients needed to fill and finish millions of doses of AstraZeneca's coronavirus vaccine in Brazil, previously slated to arrive in the country on Saturday, may not land until the end of the month.Fiocruz, which was counting on the shipment Saturday to supply the government with doses this month, said it was in talks to import more finished doses of the vaccine, likely from India on top of the 2 million it has already ordered.A source involved said the active ingredient is ready to be shipped to Brazil but is waiting for an export license from China, where it is produced.Earlier, Fiocruz requested an emergency use authorization for AstraZeneca vaccines coming from India, which are expected to arrive in Brazil in the middle of this month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/brazil-president-bolsonaro-asks-india-to-expedite-vaccine-shipment-101610164367683.html
09-01-2021||World||Twitter suspends Trump's campaign account @TeamTrump for violating its rules||Twitter Inc on Friday deleted new tweets posted by U.S. President Donald Trump on official government account @POTUS and suspended the account of his presidential campaign, after booting his personal account off the platform permanently.Trump tweeted "We will not be SILENCED!" from the @POTUS government account, with 33.4 million followers. Twitter had permanently suspended the president's go-to megaphone, his @realDonaldTrump personal account, hours earlier.The company said accounts used by Trump to try to get around the ban could face permanent suspension as well under its "ban evasion" policies."Twitter is not about FREE SPEECH," Trump wrote in the now-deleted tweets, adding that he is considering building his own social media platform in the near future.Twitter shut down his @TeamTrump campaign account shortly after it sent out a tweet with a "statement from President Trump" accusing Twitter of "banning free speech" and coordinating with "the Democrats and the Radical Left" to silence him.The account shortly before that had pointed its 2.3 million followers to its account on Parler, which is popular with conservatives for its hands-off approach to content moderation.Alphabet Inc's Google suspended Parler on Friday, citing posts inciting violence, while Apple Inc gave the service 24 hours to submit a detailed moderation plan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/twitter-suspends-trump-s-campaign-account-teamtrump-for-violating-its-rules-101610160880230.html
09-01-2021||World||'Conspiring to silence me': Trump after Twitter permanently suspends his account||US President Donald Trump on Friday accused Twitter of conspiring with his political enemies "to silence me," after the social media platform permanently suspended his account."Twitter has gone further and further in banning free speech, and tonight, Twitter employees have coordinated with the Democrats and the Radical Left in removing my account from their platform, to silence me -- and YOU, the 75,000,000 great patriots who voted for me," he said in a series of tweets from the official @POTUS account.The post was swiftly deleted by Twitter.Apparently expecting such a move, Trump also put out his comments as a statement through the White House press office.Trump signaled to his followers, of which he had 88.7 million on @realDonaldTrump until it was shut down, that they would have a new place to meet virtually soon."We have been negotiating with various other sites, and will have a big announcement soon, while we also look at the possibilities of building out our own platform in the near future."We will not be SILENCED!" he declared.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-accuses-twitter-of-conspiring-to-silence-me-101610158691819.html
09-01-2021||World||Biden says Trump decision to skip inauguration a 'good thing'||US President-elect Joe Biden welcomed Donald Trump's announcement on Friday that he won't attend the January 20 inauguration, calling it a "good thing.""I was told on the way over here that he indicated he wasn't going to show up at the inauguration," Biden told reporters in Wilmington, Delaware."One of the few things he and I have ever agreed on," Biden said. "It's a good thing, him not showing up.""He's been an embarrassment to the country," Biden said."He's not fit to serve," the president-elect added of Trump, who is facing the possibility of being impeached next week for inciting his supporters to storm the US Capitol."He exceeded even my worst notions about him," Biden said. "He's one of the most incompetent presidents in the history of the United States of America."Biden said Vice President Mike Pence would be welcome at his inauguration.Biden's remarks came after Trump tweeted earlier Friday that he would not attend the inauguration."To all of those who have asked, I will not be going to the Inauguration on January 20th," Trump tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biden-says-trump-decision-to-skip-inauguration-a-good-thing-101610154615270.html
09-01-2021||World||Rioters fired, face company boycotts after storming Capitol||A printing company in Maryland saw the photo on Twitter Wednesday night: an employee roaming the halls of the US Capitol with a company badge around his neck. He was fired the next day.Others are facing similar repercussions for their participation in Wednesday's riot at the US Capitol. Some business owners are being trashed on social media and their establishments boycotted, while rank-and-file employees at other businesses have been fired.The printing company, Navistar Direct Marketing, declined to name the worker but said it can’t offer employment to people “demonstrating dangerous conduct that endangers the health and safety of others.”More than 90 people have been arrested since Wednesday when loyalists to outgoing President Donald Trump disrupted lawmakers as they met to confirm the Electoral College results and President-elect Joe Biden’s victory. People on social media have been trying to identify rioters photographed or filmed at the Capitol Wednesday, pressuring companies to fire those employees.At a data analytics firm in suburban Chicago, the employee in question was the top boss. Cogensia placed CEO Bradley Rukstales on a leave of absence for participating in the riot and said his views don't represent the views of the company. Rukstales, who was arrested for unlawful entry, told a local CBS news channel that he had entered the Capitol and apologized for his role in the events. Calls and emails to Rukstales weren’t returned.A Cleveland school occupational therapist resigned from the district after her alleged involvement in the riot. A spokeswoman for a fire department near Orlando, Florida said one of its firefighters was being investigated for his participation. Sanford Fire Department firefighter Andy Williams has been placed on paid administrative leave pending the outcome, said spokeswoman Bianca Gillett.Most private employers can fire workers for attending protests, since First Amendment rights only prohibit people from being punished by the government for their speech, not by a private employer, said Susan Kline, an Indianapolis-based labor and employment attorney at law firm Faegre Drinker.There are some exceptions. Those who works for the government may be more legally protected, and so too can unionized workers, who typically have a contract listing the reasons they could be fired for. And some states may have laws that protect workers' free speech.But “what people did at the Capitol Wednesday was rioting, not protesting,” said Aaron Holt, a labor and employment attorney with law firm Cozen O’Connor. “When someone violates the law, that’s almost never going to be protected, and a private employer is going to be within their rights to discipline or take some kind of action in response to that that might go against their fundamental core values.”Small businesses are also facing backlash on online review sites such as Yelp, which flagged at least 20 businesses for unusual review activity related to Wednesday’s rioting.One business, Becky’s Flowers in Midland, Texas, is owned by Jenny Cudd, a former mayoral candidate who posted a video on Facebook bragging that she had broken into House Speaker Nancy Pelosi’s office. By Friday, Cudd’s flower shop was flooded with dozens of one-star reviews in which she was called a traitor and domestic terrorist, along with photos of her inside the Capitol. Reached by text message, Cudd said she was not available to speak Friday.It’s not the first time Yelp has flagged businesses for unusual review activity after political events. Reviewers raged on on the Yelp page of Virginia restaurant The Red Hen after it booted former White House press secretary Sarah Sanders from its establishment a few years ago. And commenters from the left and right bombarded Big Apple Pizza’s Yelp page with political beliefs after former President Barack Obama was enthusiastically hugged by a customer there.Social media has outed people for other controversial activities outside of the workplace, landing them in trouble with their employers. In 2017 after a white supremacist rally in Charlottesville, Virginia, many posted photos on social media of those who participated, leading in some cases to their firing.In Louisiana, customers said they would boycott supermarket chain Rouses Market after retired owner Donald Rouse was shown in a photo at Wednesday's riot. Rouse said in an email statement that he attended the rally as a supporter of the president but left before the violence began.“I’m horrified by the violence and destruction we saw yesterday and the pain it has caused so many,” Rouse said. “Our country desperately needs to come together to heal, and I will do everything I can to be a part of that process.”The Krew of Red Beans, a group which organizes parades, posted on Instagram that it would return $20,000 in donations it received from the market.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/rioters-fired-face-company-boycotts-after-storming-capitol-101610153401664.html
09-01-2021||World||US Justice Department charges 15 over Capitol violence||The US Justice Department announced Friday that it has charged 15 people involved in the assault on Congress, including one man accused of possessing bombs made to act like "homemade napalm."But Ken Kohl, a federal prosecutor with the Washington US attorney's office, said they did not expect to charge anyone with "incitement" or "insurrection" in Wednesday's violence, amid calls for legal action against President Donald Trump, his lawyer Rudy Giuliani and others for encouraging it.The department unveiled the cases against 13 people, including Richard Barnett, a Trump supporter who invaded the office of House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, and Lonnie Coffman of Alabama, who was found carrying two handguns and had 11 Styrofoam-enhanced Molotov cocktails in his truck.Others whose charges were unsealed include Christopher Albert of Maryland, who allegedly entered the US Capitol with a loaded handgun; and Mark Leffingwell, charged with punching an officer.Most of the 13 were charged with illegal entry into restricted buildings of Congress, and violent or disorderly conduct.They were also charged with impeding government functions after forcing the shutdown of a joint meeting of Congress to officially certify that Trump rival Joe Biden had won the November 3 election, which Trump had until Thursday refused to accept.'Lawless destruction'Barnett, famously photographed with his feet on a desk in Pelosi's office, was charged with theft of stationery."The lawless destruction of the US Capitol building was an attack against one of our nation's greatest institutions," said Acting US Attorney Michael Sherwin in a statement.Kohl said that not all the charges filed over Wednesday's violence had been unsealed, and that more were in the pipeline as the FBI investigates."This investigation has the highest priority," he said, with "hundreds" of Justice Department investigators working the case.More charges and arrests were expected.Around 40 people were arrested and charged by local Washington police, mostly for curfew violations, weapons offenses and unlawful entry.But the charges announced by Kohl Friday were on the federal level and potentially carry heftier punishment.He said the FBI was not investigating anyone on possible "incitement" or "insurrection" charges.Some people have called for Trump, Giuliani, Trump's son Donald Jr. and others to be charged with incitement for openly encouraging the president's supporters to take action just hours before the mob stormed the Capitol."We don't expect any charges of that nature," Kohl said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-justice-department-charges-15-over-capitol-violence-101610151091111.html
09-01-2021||World||North Korea to pursue more advanced nuclear technology, says Kim Jong Un||North Korean leader Kim Jong Un said the country must constantly strengthen its defense capabilities against the threat of the US, such as through the pursuit of more advanced nuclear technology, according to state-run Korean Central News Agency, citing a report he presented to delegates at a Workers’ Party Congress underway in Pyongyang.The US will “never” change its fundamental approach to North Korea regardless of who’s in power, Kim was cited as saying to his ruling party.The plans include making smaller and lighter nuclear weapons, proceeding with large nuclear warheads and improving the ability to hit and destroy strategic targets within 15,000 km (9,320 miles). Kim also plans to develop solid-fuel ICBMs and nuclear submarines, and he is seeking to strengthen intelligence-gathering capabilities with satellites, according to KCNA.The congress was being watched for clues on how Kim will engage with USPresident-elect Joe Biden. The North Korean leader, who turned 37 on Friday, hasn’t made substantive comments on his weapons program since unveiling a new intercontinental ballistic missile at an October military parade.Kim was also cited as saying that relations with South Korea has backtracked to pre-Panmunjom Declaration times, as the neighboring country continues to ignore the North’s demands to halt joint military exercises with the US He added that any improvement of inter-Korean relations is wholly dependent on the attitude of South Korea, and that North Korea didn’t see the need to make any “one-sided” demonstration of goodwill.Kim issued a dire warning in opening remarks to the gathering of 5,000 delegates and party officials, saying the previous five-year plan fell far short of goals and the party would explore a “new path” for making a “big leap forward.”North Korea’s sanctions-battered economy was dealt further blows last year by natural disasters and Kim’s decision to shut borders due to the coronavirus. Gross domestic product likely shrank by 8.5% in 2020, according to a projection by Fitch Solutions, leaving it smaller than when Kim took power in 2011 with a pledge to improve people’s living standards.Despite the bonhomie Kim showed in three meetings with outgoing President Donald Trump, the North Korean leader repeatedly rejected the Trump administration’s call for a “complete, verifiable and irreversible” nuclear dismantlement before Pyongyang could receive any rewards. North Korea is likely seeking to calibrate its approach during the transition to preserve Kim’s chances of securing a deal to relieve the sanctions.The Biden administration has indicated it may be ready to ease sanctions in exchange for steps by Kim to freeze, cap and wind down his atomic arsenal. Biden has said he wants to “jump start” a campaign with US allies and others for denuclearization. Biden’s choice for secretary of state, Antony Blinken, in a 2017 opinion piece in the New York Times, backed a negotiated settlement with North Korea “that first freezes and then rolls back North Korea’s nuclear program, with inspectors to carefully scrutinize compliance” before a more comprehensive deal is reached.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/north-korea-to-pursue-more-advanced-nuclear-technology-says-kim-jong-un-101610151257379.html
09-01-2021||World||Twitter permanently suspends Donald Trump's account||Twitter Inc. has permanently banned US President Donald Trump’s personal account for breaking its rules against glorifying violence, marking the most high-profile punishment the social-media company has ever imposed and the end of Trump’s relationship with his favorite social media megaphone.“After close review of recent Tweets from the @realDonaldTrump account and the context around them — specifically how they are being received and interpreted on and off Twitter — we have permanently suspended the account due to the risk of further incitement of violence,” the company wrote in a blog post on Friday.Also Read | Donald Trump, increasingly isolated, lashes out at Mike Pence: ReportThe San Francisco-based company announced the ban two days after Trump was initially suspended for posting a series of tweets that misled users about the presidential election results, and appeared to encourage violent rioters who had mobbed the US Capitol. One included a video message of Trump expressing love for the insurgents and calling the election “fraudulent.”Twitter had demanded that Trump delete three offending tweets, and warned at the time that he would be permanently banned for subsequent rules violations. His account, which had more than 88 million followers, was restored Thursday. Trump’s posts on Friday included a tweet saying he wouldn’t attend President-elect Joe Biden’s inauguration -- and Twitter determined the tweets violated the company’s policies when “read in the context of broader events in the country.”“The 75,000,000 great American Patriots who voted for me, AMERICA FIRST, and MAKE AMERICA GREAT AGAIN, will have a GIANT VOICE long into the future. They will not be disrespected or treated unfairly in any way, shape or form!!!” Trump posted earlier Friday.The company said this was an indication that the president planned to continue supporting and empowering those who believe he won the November election. “Plans for future armed protests have already begun proliferating on and off-Twitter, including a proposed secondary attack on the US Capitol and state capitol buildings on January 17, 2021,” Twitter wrote.Twitter said it reviewed the tweets given “the ways in which the President’s statements can be mobilized by different audiences, including to incite violence, as well as in the context of the pattern of behavior from this account in recent weeks.” The company’s shares slipped about 2.6% in extended trading. The White House didn’t immediately respond to a request for comment on the permanent ban.Trump’s suspension ends what has been the most controversial relationship Twitter has ever had with one of its users. Trump often used his account to verbally attack opponents and spread misinformation in ways that broke the social network’s rules. In some cases, Twitter created new rules specifically to accommodate the president’s reckless tweeting, including a special policy for world leaders, which put their rule-breaking tweets behind a filter instead of removing them entirely. The company had begun to take a tougher stance on Trump’s tweets in recent months, especially on posts about Black Lives Matter protests and unsubstantiated claims of election fraud.After Trump’s temporary suspension earlier this week, many critics and civil rights advocates voiced concern that Twitter hadn’t gone far enough. That group included many Twitter employees, who delivered a letter to Chief Executive Officer Jack Dorsey Friday demanding the service remove Trump entirely.“We do not believe these actions are sufficient,” employees wrote of Twitter’s temporary ban, according to a copy of the letter published by the Washington Post. Earlier on Friday, the group SumOfUs which fights for change at powerful companies, parked a boat on the water outside of Dorsey’s San Francisco home demanding Twitter ban Trump. Dorsey hasn’t made any public comment about the activity on his network this week. Executives have said that Dorsey generally lets such decisions fall to Twitter’s top policy executive, Vijaya Gadde.Trump supporters have long accused social networks of overstepping in their efforts to police user content. Many have declared their intention to move from Twitter to Parler Inc., a social network that bills itself as the home of free speech.“Disgusting. Big Tech wants to cancel all 75M @realDonaldTrump supporters,” wrote Trump campaign adviser Jason Miller, on Twitter. “If you don’t think they’re coming for you next, you’re wrong.”Trump, meanwhile, will retain control of the Twitter account @POTUS until inauguration on Jan. 20. That account, which belongs to the office of the president, has about 33 million followers, less than half that of his @realDonaldTrump personal account.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/twitter-permanently-suspends-donald-trump-s-account-101610148842773.html
09-01-2021||World||Nancy Pelosi says House preparing to move forward on Trump impeachment||House Speaker Nancy Pelosi said on Friday she has instructed the Rules Committee to be prepared to move forward on a motion to impeach U.S. President Donald Trump if the Republican does not resign after deadly pro-Trump riots at the U.S. Capitol."It is the hope of members that the president will immediately resign," Pelosi said in a statement on her meeting with the House Democratic Caucus. "The House will preserve every option... With great respect, our deliberations will continue."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/nancy-pelosi-says-house-preparing-to-move-forward-on-trump-impeachment-101610146988351.html
