23-01-2021||World||2,100 arrested at protests demanding Alexei Navalny's release||Protests erupted in dozens of cities across Russia on Saturday to demand the release of opposition leader Alexei Navalny, the Kremlin's most prominent foe. Police arrested more than 2,100 people, some of whom took to the streets in temperatures as frigid as minus-50 Celsius (minus-58 Fahrenheit).In Moscow, thousands of demonstrators filled Pushkin Square in the city center, where clashes with police broke out and demonstrators were roughly dragged off by helmeted riot officers to police buses and detention trucks, some beaten with batons.Navalny’s wife Yulia was among those arrested.Police eventually pushed demonstrators out of the square. Thousands then regrouped along a wide boulevard about a kilometer (half-mile) away, many of them throwing snowballs at the police before dispersing.The protests stretched across Russia’s vast territory, from the island city of Yuzhno-Sakhalinsk north of Japan and the eastern Siberian city of Yakutsk, where temperatures plunged to minus-50 Celsius, to Russia’s more populous European cities. The range demonstrated how Navalny and his anti-corruption campaign have built an extensive network of support despite official government repression and being routinely ignored by state media.“The situation is getting worse and worse, it’s total lawlessness," said Andrei Gorkyov, a protester in Moscow. "And if we stay silent, it will go on forever.”The OVD-Info group that monitors political arrests said at least 795 people were detained in Moscow and more than 300 at another large demonstration in St. Petersburg. Overall, it said 2,131 people had been arrested in some 90 cities.Undeterred, Navalny's supporters called for protests again next weekend.Navalny was arrested on Jan. 17 when he returned to Moscow from Germany, where he had spent five months recovering from a severe nerve-agent poisoning that he blames on the Kremlin and which Russian authorities deny. Authorities say his stay in Germany violated terms of a suspended sentence in a 2014 criminal conviction, while Navalny says the conviction was for made-up charges.The 44-year-old activist is well known nationally for his reports on the corruption that has flourished under President Vladimir Putin's government.His wide support puts the Kremlin in a strategic bind — risking more protests and criticism from the West if it keeps him in custody but apparently unwilling to back down by letting him go free.Navalny faces a court hearing in early February to determine whether his sentence in the criminal case for fraud and money-laundering — which Navalny says was politically motivated — is converted to 3 1/2 years behind bars.Moscow police on Thursday arrested three top Navalny associates, two of whom were later jailed for periods of nine and 10 days.Navalny fell into a coma while aboard a domestic flight from Siberia to Moscow on Aug. 20. He was transferred from a hospital in Siberia to a Berlin hospital two days later. Labs in Germany, France and Sweden, and tests by the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons, established that he was exposed to the Soviet-era Novichok nerve agent.Russian authorities insisted that the doctors who treated Navalny in Siberia before he was airlifted to Germany found no traces of poison and have challenged German officials to provide proof of his poisoning. Russia refused to open a full-fledged criminal inquiry, citing a lack of evidence that Navalny was poisoned.Last month, Navalny released the recording of a phone call he said he made to a man he described as an alleged member of a group of officers of the Federal Security Service, or FSB, who purportedly poisoned him in August and then tried to cover it up. The FSB dismissed the recording as fake.Navalny has been a thorn in the Kremlin’s side for a decade, unusually durable in an opposition movement often demoralized by repressions.He has been jailed repeatedly in connection with protests and twice was convicted of financial misdeeds in cases that he said were politically motivated. He suffered significant eye damage when an assailant threw disinfectant into his face. He was taken from jail to a hospital in 2019 with an illness that authorities said was an allergic reaction but which many suspected was a poisoning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/2100-arrested-at-protests-demanding-alexei-navalny-s-release-101611425364680.html
23-01-2021||World||'That's why I Joined Telegram': Donald Trump Jr's announcement on Twitter||In the wake of big tech platforms banning Donald Trump, his eldest son Donald Trump Jr. has joined encrypted messaging app Telegram. In a tweet on Saturday morning, Trump Jr announce that he has joined Telegram."Big Tech Censorship is getting worse and if these Tyrants banned my father, the President of the United States, who won’t they ban?". "We need a place that I can connect to you guys that respects Free Speech. That’s why I joined Telegram." tweeted Don Jr.He also shared a video of himself on Telegram, where he proclaimed his intentions of leaving the “big three” social media platforms in the future. His channel has already raked in a total of 723K members“I’ll still use them, but for all I know, I will wake up tomorrow and be done. Literally, gone off those platforms," he said. “I could have spent months, years, weeks, hours every day coming up with content building up a base and they can pull it like that,” he added.Don Jr’s Telegram bio designates him as the executive vice president of his father’s company, a father, and an outdoorsman.“EVP of Development & Acquisitions The Trump Organization, Father, Outdoorsman, In a past life Boardroom Advisor on The Apprentice. Son of Former President of the United States," reads his bio.The Trump scion had also started his own website at the beginning of January citing restrictions and censoring of free speech as the reason.“Free Speech Is Under Attack! Censorship is happening like NEVER before! Don’t let them silence us. Sign up at http://DONJR.COM to stay connected! If I get thrown off my social platforms I’ll let you know my thoughts and where I end up," he had earlier tweeted.He continues to regularly use Twitter, a platform which has banned his father, and has been vigorously tweeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/thats-why-i-joined-telegram-donald-trump-jr-s-announcement-on-twitter-101611423689236.html
23-01-2021||World||‘Dark Money’ helped pave Joe Biden’s path to the White House||President Joe Biden benefited from a record-breaking amount of donations from anonymous donors to outside groups backing him, meaning the public will never have a full accounting of who helped him win the White House.Biden’s winning campaign was backed by $145 million in so-called dark money donations, a type of fundraising Democrats have decried for years. Those fundraising streams augmented Biden’s $1.5 billion haul, in itself a record for a challenger to an incumbent president.That amount of dark money dwarfs the $28.4 million spent on behalf of his rival, former President Donald Trump. And it tops the previous record of $113 million in anonymous donations backing Republican presidential nominee Mitt Romney in 2012.Democrats have said they want to ban dark money as uniquely corrupting since it allows supporters to quietly back a candidate without scrutiny. Yet in their effort to defeat Trump in 2020, they embraced it.For example, Priorities USA Action Fund, the super political action committee that Biden designated as his preferred vehicle for outside spending, used $26 million in funds originally donated to its nonprofit arm, called Priorities USA, to back Biden. The donors of that money do not have to be disclosed.Guy Cecil, the chairman of Priorities USA, was unapologetic. “We weren’t going to unilaterally disarm against Trump and the right- wing forces that enabled him,” he said in a statement.Campaign finance laws, in theory, are supposed to limit the influence big money has over politicians. But the system has gaping loopholes, which groups backing Biden and other candidates, have exploited.“He benefited from it,” said Larry Noble, a former general counsel at the Federal Election Commission.A Biden spokesman did not immediately respond to attempts to seek comment.His campaign called for banning some types of nonprofits from spending money to influence elections and requiring that any organization spending more than $10,000 to influence elections to register with the FEC and disclose its donors.Biden raised more than $1 billion for his campaign, which can accept donations of up to $2,800 per election from individuals. That included $318.6 million from donors who gave less than $200 each. The rest of the money Biden raised came from donors with pockets deep enough to give as much as $825,000, with that money being divided among the Democratic National Committee and 47 state parties.Dark money is not the biggest source of cash to campaigns. Wealthy donors can write eight-figure checks to super-PACs, Noble pointed out. Joint fundraising committees that raise money for campaigns and parties can bring in chunks of $830,500.Donors who want to avoid disclosure can give to political nonprofits, like Defending Democracy Together, which spent $15.6 million backing Biden, and aren’t required to disclose their contributors to the FEC. Donors can also give money to a nonprofit that in turn gives the money to a super-PAC, like Priorities USA did. Candidates and their campaigns can’t coordinate spending with such groups under federal law.And that lack of disclosure worries reform groups.Big donors -- individuals or corporations -- who contributed anonymously will have the same access to decision makers as those whose names were disclosed, but without public awareness of who they are or what influence they might wield.“The whole point of dark money is to avoid public disclosure while getting private credit,” said Meredith McGehee, executive director of Issue One, which advocates for reducing the influence of money on politics. “It’s only dark money to the public.”Battleground Attack AdsOverall, Democrats in this election cycle benefited from $326 million in dark money, according to the Center for Responsive Politics. That was more than twice the $148 million that supported Republican groups. Some of the Democratic groups that relied on dark money in whole or in part spent heavily on early ads attacking Trump in critical battleground states like Michigan, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin. The groups started spending while Biden’s relatively cash-poor campaign was struggling to raise money for the primaries.Future Forward PAC, a super-PAC that spent $104 million backing Biden, got $46.9 million from Facebook Inc. co-founder Dustin Moskovitz, $3 million from Twilio Inc. Chief Executive Officer Jeff Lawson and $2.6 million from Eric Schmidt of Alphabet Inc, the parent company of Google. But its biggest source of funds was its sister nonprofit, Future Forward USA Action, which contributed $61 million. The names of those who put up the $61 million don’t have to be disclosed.The Sixteen Thirty Fund, a nonprofit that sponsors progressive advocacy, donated a total of $55 million in the 2020 election cycle to Democratic super-PACs, including Priorities USA Action Fund and Future Forward PAC, FEC records show. That total was much more than the $3 million it gave in 2018.Amy Kurtz, executive director of the Sixteen Thirty Fund, said the surge of money to the group, which doesn’t disclose the names of its donors, included people who previously gave to Republicans or had not been engaged in politics.The flood of dark money to Democrats and progressive groups has complicated their effort to reform the system.Senator Sheldon Whitehouse, a Rhode Island Democrat, has blamed dark money for persuading Republicans to block legislation to address climate change and assuring judges who share their views are appointed to the courts.“Dark money is toxic to democracy – period,” Whitehouse said in a statement. “The fact that progressive groups have learned to fight back using similar tactics is no excuse for continuing the plague of dark money in America.”Kurtz says her group would prefer rules that eliminated dark money.“We have lobbied in favor of reform to the current campaign finance system,” she said, referring to H.R. 1, an election reform measure Democrats have proposed that includes more rigorous disclosure of donors to political nonprofits, “but we remain equally committed to following the current laws to level the playing field for progressives.”Even Cecil, who runs the super-PAC supporting Biden, said the group supports reform.“We still look forward to the day when unlimited money and super- PACs are a thing of the past,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/dark-money-helped-pave-joe-biden-s-path-to-the-white-house-101611422995175.html
23-01-2021||World||Oil industry reels as Joe Biden targets fossil fuels in first days||Hours after taking office, President Joe Biden made good on a campaign promise to cancel the Keystone XL oil pipeline. Later that day his Interior Department mandated that only top agency leaders could approve new drilling permits over the next two months.Next week, according to people familiar with the plans, Biden will go even further: suspending the sale of oil and gas leases on federal land, where the US gets 10% of its supplies.The actions sent oil producers’ stocks tumbling and raised blood pressure across the industry.“In the first couple of days of the new administration, they are taking actions that will harm the economy and cost Americans their jobs,” said Frank Macchiarola, a senior vice president of policy for the American Petroleum Institute. “We’re concerned, and everyone in the country should be concerned.”The Interior Department’s order, signed late Wednesday, changes procedures for 60 days while the agency’s new leadership gets into place. It requires top brass to sign off on oil leases and permits as well as decisions about hiring, mining operations and environmental reviews.The industry took it as a bad omen. Officials are worried that technical permitting decisions are being placed in the hands of political appointees, rather than expert regulators in the field. And they’re concerned permits -- or simply changes to them -- will be delayed for existing drilling operations.Moreover, many interpreted it as a prelude to broader actions, including the administration’s plan to next week impose a moratorium on all oil, gas and coal leasing across some 700 million acres (2.8 million hectares) of federal land.This “announcement is intended as a temporary ban on leasing and permitting but is also a precursor to a longer-term ban,” said Kathleen Sgamma, head of the Western Energy Alliance, which has threatened to go to court to battle any such blockade.While Biden’s campaign promises - and his initial moves to fulfill them - are a threat to some US oil producers, the actions could be a boon for crude prices by restraining supply.The administration’s early moves mark a dramatic shift from the course under former President Donald Trump, who sought to accelerate drilling permits and open up more places to oil exploration.And the change in direction is already apparent in early staffing decisions. Under Trump, the top offshore drilling regulator at Interior was Scott Angelle, a longtime oil industry ally and former Louisiana official who pushed for rapid permitting of Gulf of Mexico oil projects after the 2010 Deepwater Horizon disaster.By contrast, one of Biden’s first hires at the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management that oversees offshore oil leasing and wind farms is Marissa Knodel, a former activist with Friends of the Earth. Knodel was one of about 150 people whose rowdy protest of a bureau auction of oil drilling rights in March 2016 prompted the agency to shift subsequent oil and gas lease sales online.On the campaign trail, Biden called for phasing out fossil fuels and promised to halt new oil and gas permitting on federal land. Worried oil producers stockpiled leases and drilling permits last year in anticipation of more restrictions under Biden.But the suddenness of this week’s moves still took many in the industry by surprise, prompting frantic phone calls as lobbyists and lawyers sought to plan their next moves. They are strategizing their options, including litigation, and looking at any political levers they can pull to forestall a broader leasing ban.Senator Dan Sullivan, a Republican from Alaska, said permitting changes threaten operations in his state during the current winter season, when companies such as ConocoPhillips rely on ice roads and ice pads to support drilling and other activity in the National Petroleum Reserve-Alaska.“If you put a 60-day moratorium on drilling in the NPR-A, guess what? You lose the whole season,” Sullivan said Friday on the Senate floor.Environmentalists are delighted. They say throttling fossil fuel development on federal land is necessary to pare the greenhouse gas emissions driving climate change. The oil, gas and coal extracted from federal lands and waters is responsible for about 24% of US carbon dioxide emissions, according to a US Geological Survey report.“Pausing new fossil fuel decisions brings us closer to healthier communities, a healthier climate and healthier wild places,” said Dan Ritzman, director of Sierra Club’s Lands, Waters and Wildlife campaign. “Public lands can and must be part of the climate solution.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/oil-industry-reels-as-joe-biden-targets-fossil-fuels-in-first-days-101611421916719.html
23-01-2021||World||Italian king's heir apologises for monarchy's Holocaust role||A descendant of Italy's wartime King Victor Emmanuel III has apologised to the country's Jewish community for his ancestor's role in dictator Mussolini's racial laws and the Holocaust."I condemn the 1938 racial laws, all of whose weight I still feel on my shoulders to this day, and with me the whole royal house," 48-year-old Emanuele Filiberto of Savoy said of his great-grandfather.Victor Emmanuel III had put his signature to an "unacceptable document", he added in a letter posted to Facebook, "officially apologising" in the name of his family.Almost 8,000 Italian Jews were deported from the country and murdered in Nazi extermination camps, most of them in Auschwitz.Giving a TV interview alongside the letter, Emanuele Filiberto also vaunted his family's positive role in Italian unification and granting of equal rights to Jews from 1848.Several Italian royals were themselves deported to Nazi concentration camps, he recalled.After the war, Victor Emmanuel III abdicated in May 1946 and died the following year in Egypt.His son Humbert II reigned for only a month before leaving for Switzerland when Italians opted for a republican constitution in a referendum.Parliament only ended a constitutional ban on the House of Savoy's male heirs returning to Italy in 2002, after Emanuele Filiberto and his father Vittorio Emanuele swore loyalty to the republic.The two men gave up on compensation claims demanding 260 million euros ($316 million) for their family's exile and the return of the royal family's confiscated property after a public outcry.Emanuele Filiberto is married to French actress Clotilde Courau.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/italian-king-s-heir-apologises-for-monarchy-s-holocaust-role-101611418583191.html
23-01-2021||World||Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro's support falls sharply, but a majority reject impeachment, polls show||Support for Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro, who has overseen the world's second deadliest coronavirus outbreak, has fallen sharply, a Datafolha poll shows, as a brutal second wave and a lack of vaccines sours views of his far-right government.However, despite his declining support, a majority of Brazilians are now against him being impeached, a second Datafolha poll found. Both were released late on Friday.According to one of the polls, Bolsonaro's administration was rated as bad or terrible by 40% of respondents, up from 32% in an early-December survey. Just under a third of respondents rated Bolsonaro's government as good or excellent, versus 37% in the previous poll.The poll results are a blow for the president. The Folha de S.Paulo newspaper said they represent the biggest drop in approval since the beginning of his government in 2019.Brazilians have grown increasingly irate at the slow pace of Brazil's vaccine rollout, which began last weekend but remains blighted with few vaccines to inoculate the country's 210 million people and stall a snowballing second wave.Pot-banging protests, a hallmark of the early days of the pandemic, even erupted in some cities earlier this month, and both left- and right-wing groups convened pro-impeachment marches across the country this weekend.To make matters worse, a new virus variant has appeared in the north of the country that researchers believe has higher levels of transmissibility. Some countries have even barred entry for Brazilian travelers.Bolsonaro, a former army captain, is already under pressure for his handling of an outbreak that has so far killed 215,243 people. He has sought to minimize the gravity of the virus and even said he won't take any Covid-19 shot, stoking growing anti-vaccine sentiment.Nonetheless, another Datafolha poll found that 53% of respondents are against Congress opening impeachment proceedings against the president for his handling of the pandemic, compared with 50% in a previous survey. Those favoring impeachment fell to 43% from 46% previously.Both polls were conducted on Jan 20-21, interviewing 2,030 Brazilians, with a 2 percentage point margin of error.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/jair-bolsonaro-s-support-falls-but-a-majority-reject-impeachment-polls-show-101611418508527.html
23-01-2021||World||Russia accuses US embassy of publishing Navalny supporters' 'protest routes'||Russia on Saturday accused the US embassy in Moscow of publishing routes of planned demonstrations in support of Kremlin critic Alexei Navalny and demanded an explanation from American diplomats."Yesterday the US embassy in Moscow published 'protest routes' in Russian cities and tossed around information about a 'march on the Kremlin,'" foreign ministry spokeswoman Maria Zakharova wrote on Facebook."US colleagues will have to explain themselves," she added.The embassy had distributed a "demonstration alert" to US citizens in Russia recommending they avoid protests in Moscow, Saint Petersburg and other cities.Police on Saturday detained over 1,300 protesters, including Navalny's wife, according to protest monitor OVD Info, as tens of thousands took to the streets to denounce President Vladimir Putin's rule.The US embassy in Moscow said Saturday it was following the rallies, adding that Washington supported "the right of all people to peaceful protest, freedom of expression.""Steps being taken by Russian authorities are suppressing those rights," embassy spokeswoman Rebecca Ross said on Twitter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/russia-accuses-us-embassy-of-publishing-navalny-supporters-protest-routes-101611417128047.html
23-01-2021||World||Italy health official warns of change in Covid-19 vaccine roll out plan if supply problems continue||Italy will have to rethink its Covid-19 vaccination plans if supply problems persist, a senior health official said on Saturday.The country had already had to cut its daily inoculations by more than two thirds because of delays in deliveries of shots from US drugmaker Pfizer Inc, Franco Locatelli, the head of Italy's higher health council, told a press conference.Now that AstraZeneca Plc has also warned of cuts in deliveries to its doses - even as they await clearance for use in the bloc - Italy might have to redraw its national roll out at the end fo the month, he said.Vaccinations in Italy have slowed to 20,000-25,000 a day from peaks of more than 90,000 around two weeks ago, Locatelli said.Rome has threatened to sue the Pfizer which said last week it was temporarily slowing supplies to Europe to make manufacturing changes that would boost output.Pfizer's vaccination deliveries to Italy were 29% lower this week and would be down 20% next week, though they should return to agreed levels from Feb. 1, Locatelli said.On Friday, a senior official told Reuters AstraZeneca had also informed the European Union it will cut deliveries of its Covid-19 vaccine to the bloc by 60% because of production problems.The European Medicines Agency will rule on whether to approve the AstraZeneca vaccine for use in the bloc on Jan. 29 and Rome will have to reassess immunisation plans after that, Locatelli said."The reduction calls for a rethinking of the vaccine rollout we had initially envisaged. We'll have to consider matters towards the end of January," Locatelli said.So far 1.312 million doses of vaccine had been injected in Italy, corresponding to around 70% of deliveries, placing Italy second in Europe after Germany, Locatelli said.Nearly 40,300 people have completed the vaccination cycle after receiving the second dose, he added. (Reporting by Valentina Za; Editing by Andrew Heavens)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/italy-to-rethink-covid-19-vaccine-roll-out-if-supply-problems-persist-101611416267129.html
23-01-2021||World||Davos ski resort eerily quiet without economic talkfest this year||Student protesters who urged world leaders at the 2020 World Economic Forum in Davos to "Stop (f)lying to us" must be pleased this year, at least as far as the flying is concerned.The streets of the little Alpine town that welcomed around 3,000 business chiefs, political thinkers, and state leaders for last year's annual meeting lie deserted. Discussions have moved online, starting Monday, and Covid-19 restrictions are also keeping regular tourists away."Look around, it's empty. Normally, all hotels would be fully booked at this time," Reto Branschi, head of Davos Klosters tourism, told Reuters in an interview this week.He said the fact that outdoor activities like skiing were still possible had helped cushion the blow, but the share of foreign tourists was expected to be under 10% versus 35% in normal years.Svea Meyer, owner of cafe KaffeeKlatsch in Davos, said she had to lay off some staff and was now preparing for the possibility that the World Economic Forum might not come back to Davos at all."I cannot see anything good (in the cancellation), we've built so many relationships over the years, made friends," she said with a look of regret.This year, there are no helicopters patrolling the skies, no protesters trying to outwit security forces sealing off the Alpine resort, no Greta Thunberg stealing the show from former US president Donald Trump.But not everybody is sad about the lack of buzz."Complete peace and quiet," a local woman wearing a mask said. "I don't miss it at all."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/davos-ski-resort-eerily-quiet-without-economic-talkfest-this-year-101611415990629.html
23-01-2021||World||UK doctors seek 'urgent review' of 12-week gap between vaccine doses||A major British doctors' group says the UK government should “urgently review” its decision to give people a second dose of the Pfizer-BioNTech coronavirus vaccine up to 12 weeks after the first, rather than the shorter gap recommended by the manufacturer and the World Health Organization.The UK, which has Europe’s deadliest coronavirus outbreak, adopted the policy in order to give as many people as possible a first dose of vaccine quickly. So far almost 5.5 million people have received a shot of either a vaccine made by US drugmaker Pfizer and Germany's BioNTech or one developed by UK-Swedish pharmaceutical giant AstraZeneca and Oxford University.AstraZeneca has said it believes a first dose of its vaccine offers protection after 12 weeks, but Pfizer says it has not tested the efficacy of its jab after such a long gap.The British Medical Association on Saturday urged England’s chief medical officer to “urgently review the UK’s current position of second doses after 12 weeks.”In a statement, the association said there was “growing concern from the medical profession regarding the delay of the second dose of the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine as Britain's strategy has become increasingly isolated from many other countries.”“No other nation has adopted the UK's approach,” Dr. Chaand Nagpaul, chairman of the BMA council, told the BBC.He said the WHO had recommended that the second Pfizer vaccine shot could be given up to six weeks after the first but only “in exceptional circumstances.”“I do understand the trade-off and the rationale, but if that was the right thing to do then we would see other nations following suit,” Nagpaul said.Yvonne Doyle, medical director of Public Health England, defended the decision as “a reasonable scientific balance on the basis of both supply and also protecting the most people.”Researchers in Britain have begun collecting blood samples from newly vaccinated people in order to study how many antibodies they are producing at different intervals, from 3 weeks to 24 months, to get an answer to the question of what timing is best for the shots.The doctors’ concerns came a day after government medical advisers said there was evidence that a new variant of the virus first identified in southeast England carries a greater risk of death than the original strain.Chief Scientific Adviser Patrick Vallance said Friday “that there is evidence that there is an increased risk for those who have the new variant,” which is also more transmissible than the original virus. He said the new strain might be about 30% more deadly, but stressed that “the evidence is not yet strong” and more research is needed.Research by British scientists advising the government said although initial analyses suggested that the strain did not cause more severe disease, several more recent ones suggest it might. However, the number of deaths is relatively small, and fatality rates are affected by many things, including the care that patients get and their age and health, beyond having Covid-19.Britain has recorded 95,981 deaths among people who tested positive, the highest confirmed virus toll in Europe.The UK is in a lockdown to try to slow the latest surge of the virus, and the government says an end to the restrictions will not come soon. Pubs, restaurants, gyms, entertainment venues and many shops are closed, and people are required to stay largely at home.The British government is considering tightening quarantine requirements for people arriving from abroad. Already travelers must self-isolate for 10 days, but enforcement is patchy. Authorities are considering requiring arrivals to stay in quarantine hotels, a practice adopted in other countries, including Australia.“We may need to go further to protect our borders,” Prime Minister Boris Johnson said Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-doctors-seek-urgent-review-of-12-week-gap-between-vaccine-doses-101611416437357.html
23-01-2021||World||Protests erupt across Russia demanding Alexei Navalny's release||Protests erupted in cities across Russia on Saturday to demand the release of opposition leader Alexei Navalny, the Kremlin's most prominent foe. Police arrested more than 1,600 people, some of whom took to the streets in temperatures as frigid as minus-50 Celsius (minus-58 Fahrenheit).In Moscow, thousands of demonstrators filled Pushkin Square in the city center, where clashes with police broke out and demonstrators were roughly dragged off by helmeted riot officers to police buses and detention trucks, some beaten with batons.Navalny’s wife Yulia was among those arrested.Police eventually pushed demonstrators out of the square. Thousands then regrouped along a wide boulevard about a kilometer (half-mile) away, many of them throwing snowballs at the police.The protests stretched across Russia’s vast territory, from the island city of Yuzhno-Sakhalinsk north of Japan and the eastern Siberian city of Yakutsk, where temperatures plunged to minus-50 Celsius, to Russia’s more populous European cities. The range demonstrated how Navalny and his anti-corruption campaign have built an extensive network of support despite official government repression and being routinely ignored by state media.The OVD-Info group that monitors political arrests said more than 500 people were detained in Moscow on Saturday and more than 200 at another large demonstration in St. Petersburg. Overall, it said 1,614 people had been arrested in some 90 cities.Navalny was arrested on January 17 when he returned to Moscow from Germany, where he had spent five months recovering from a severe nerve-agent poisoning that he blames on the Kremlin and which Russian authorities deny. Authorities say his stay in Germany violated terms of a suspended sentence in a 2014 criminal conviction, while Navalny says the conviction was for made-up charges.The 44-year-old activist is well known nationally for his reports on the corruption that has flourished under President Vladimir Putin's government.His wide support puts the Kremlin in a strategic bind — risking more protests and criticism from the West if it keeps him in custody but apparently unwilling to back down by letting him go free.Navalny faces a court hearing in early February to determine whether his sentence in the criminal case for fraud and money-laundering — which Navalny says was politically motivated — is converted to 3 1/2 years behind bars.Moscow police on Thursday arrested three top Navalny associates, two of whom were later jailed for periods of nine and 10 days.Navalny fell into a coma while aboard a domestic flight from Siberia to Moscow on Aug. 20. He was transferred from a hospital in Siberia to a Berlin hospital two days later. Labs in Germany, France and Sweden, and tests by the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons, established that he was exposed to the Soviet-era Novichok nerve agent.Russian authorities insisted that the doctors who treated Navalny in Siberia before he was airlifted to Germany found no traces of poison and have challenged German officials to provide proof of his poisoning. Russia refused to open a full-fledged criminal inquiry, citing a lack of evidence that Navalny was poisoned.Last month, Navalny released the recording of a phone call he said he made to a man he described as an alleged member of a group of officers of the Federal Security Service, or FSB, who purportedly poisoned him in August and then tried to cover it up. The FSB dismissed the recording as fake.Navalny has been a thorn in the Kremlin’s side for a decade, unusually durable in an opposition movement often demoralized by repressions.He has been jailed repeatedly in connection with protests and twice was convicted of financial misdeeds in cases that he said were politically motivated. He suffered significant eye damage when an assailant threw disinfectant into his face. He was taken from jail to a hospital in 2019 with an illness that authorities said was an allergic reaction but which many suspected was a poisoning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/protests-erupt-across-russia-demanding-alexei-navalny-s-release-101611416035925.html
23-01-2021||World||South Africa's regulatory body approves Serum Institute of India's Covid-19 vaccine||South Africa's health regulatory body has granted approval to the world's largest drug manufacturer Serum Institute of India (SII) to supply Covid-19 vaccine to the country.Health Minister Zweli Mkhize announced on Friday that the South African Health Products Regulatory Authority (SAHPRA) has granted approval to the SII, which is producing the vaccine in collaboration with the University of Oxford and AstraZeneca, to supply the drug to the country.The approval comes amid growing concerns that the 1.5 million vaccine doses to be shipped to South Africa in the next few weeks had not been approved by the local regulator.“We will, in the next coming days, engage with the public in order to give an update on the progress of the first batch of the vaccines that we committed would be received in the first quarter," Mkhize said.The minister had earlier told the country's parliament that the SII would supply a million doses of the vaccine to South Africa by the end of January and a further 500,000 in February, which would be used to vaccinate front line healthcare workers.“At this stage we would like to assure South Africans that all is on track. We are working closely with all relevant stakeholders to ensure a smooth implementation of the vaccine roll-out programme,” Mkhize said.South Africa is battling a second wave of the Covid-19 as well as a new variant of the deadly virus.The country reported 11,761 new Covid-19 cases and 575 deaths in the last 24 hours. With this, the total number of fatalities in the country has reached 40,076.According to the Johns Hopkins University data, the country has 1,392,568 Covid-19 cases.The minister said that his department had also been offered vaccines from private agents.“As a department we have resolved and wish to advise the public that it is critical that any such agent and vaccine authenticity must be verified directly with manufacturers. This is the only way, in our view, to guarantee the quality of the vaccines that may be acquired through third parties,” Mkhize said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/south-africa-s-regulatory-body-approves-serum-institute-of-india-s-covid-19-vaccine-101611413412047.html
23-01-2021||World||Cancelled Keystone XL Pipeline may yield 48,000 tons of scrap||The scrapping of Keystone XL not only means the end of multibillion-dollar pipe dream for TC Energy Corp. -- it also leaves behind 48,000 tons of steel.US President Joe Biden revoked permits for the oil pipeline on his first day in office, killing a cross-border project that had won a four-year reprieve under his Republican predecessor, Donald Trump. The pipeline would have spanned almost 1,900 kilometers (1,180 miles). TC Energy anticipated needing about 660,000 tons of steel just for the US portion.About 150 kilometers of pipe had been installed and an additional 2.2 kilometers had been completed at the Canada-US border as of the end of 2020, the Canada Energy Regulator said in a Jan. 22 email. That would amount to nearly 48,000 tons of steel, assuming standard dimensions of line pipe, according to Bloomberg calculations based on industry criteria.The benchmark steel price is about $1,060 a ton, which would value the haul at almost $51 million -- though as scrap it would be sold for less. Secondary metal, which is any scrap that is already past use for its original purpose, sells at a discount to new forms of the raw material. Once sold, the scrap metal is remelted by the buyer and formed into new steel products.TC Energy may to have to sell already delivered metal to secondary markets. While unclear exactly how much steel the Calgary-based firm owns that’s tied to Keystone -- some may also be in storage -- industry observers say it likely isn’t enough to make a dent on the market. The amount that could be sold would be a fraction of the total US steel market demand of around 100 million tons a year.TC Energy couldn’t be immediately reached for comment. A spokesman for the Canada Energy Regulator, which oversees the Canadian portion of the project, said no decisions have been made on the steel.The regulator “continues to engage with TC Energy since the presidential permit for the Keystone XL Project was revoked,” the Canadian agency said in the statement, adding that it will “continue its regulatory oversight, focusing on ensuring safety and environmental protection.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/cancelled-keystone-xl-pipeline-may-yield-48-000-tons-of-scrap-101611407376941.html
23-01-2021||World||Police detain 1,090 people at Russia rallies to back Kremlin foe Navalny||Russian police have detained 1,090 people at unauthorised rallies across Russia on Saturday in support of Kremlin critic Alexei Navalny, the OVD-Info protest monitor said.At least 40,000 people joined a protest in central Moscow, according to a Reuters estimates, and rallies took place in dozens of other cities and towns.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/police-detain-1-090-people-at-russia-rallies-to-back-kremlin-foe-navalny-101611410255800.html
23-01-2021||World||Saudi Arabia optimistic, expects 'excellent relations' with Biden administration||Saudi Arabia's foreign minister said on Saturday the kingdom was optimistic that it would have "excellent relations" with the new US administration of President Joe Biden and that it would continue to talk with Washington regarding the Iran nuclear deal."I am optimistic. Saudi Arabia has built solid, historical relations where it worked with different administrations. We will continue to do that as well with President Biden," Prince Faisal bin Farhan Al Saud said in an interview with Arabiya TV.Biden pledged on the election campaign trail to reassess ties with Saudi Arabia, a state he described as a "pariah" in 2019. Biden has said he will take a firmer stand on Saudi’s human rights record and the devastating Yemen war.Prince Faisal said that Riyadh will continue to consult with Washington with regards to the Iran nuclear deal. The United States pulled out in 2018 of the 2015 deal between major powers and Iran, under which Iran restrained its nuclear program in return for relief from economic sanctions."I believe basically the consultations will be around reaching a solid and strong agreement that takes into account Iran's failure to comply. ..with strong monitoring factors to ensure the implementation of the agreement," Prince Faisal said.Biden has said that if Tehran resumed strict compliance with the agreement Washington would too.Saudi Arabia and its Gulf allies including the United Arab Emirates, concerned about Iran’s ballistic missiles and regional network of proxies, supported Trump’s maximum pressure campaign on Tehran and welcomed his decision to quit the nuclear deal and reimpose sanctions on Iran.They have said that this time around they should be included in any potential negotiations between the Biden administration and Iran on a new nuclear deal, to ensure it addresses Iran’s missile capabilities and “malign activity”.The minister reiterated the kingdom's stance that having a peace agreement with Israel is conditional on implementing the Arab Peace Initiative.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/saudi-arabia-optimistic-expects-excellent-relations-with-biden-administration-101611409609703.html
23-01-2021||World||Don't talk on public transport to curb Covid spread, advise French doctors||French doctors have new advice to slow the spread of the virus: stop talking on public transport.The French Academy of Doctors issued guidance Friday saying people should “avoid talking or making phone calls” in subways, buses or anywhere in public where social distancing isn't possible. Masks have been required since May, but travellers often loosen or remove them to talk on the phone.Other French experts are urging more dramatic measures – notably a third lockdown.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageFrance's hospitals now hold more Covid patients than in October, when President Emmanuel Macron imposed a second lockdown. Virus patients occupy more than half of the country's intensive care beds.Infections in France are gradually rising this month, at more than 20,000 per day. France currently has the longest virus curfew in Europe, from 6 p.m. to 6 a.m., and restaurants and tourist sites have been closed since October.The government has so far sought to avoid a full new lockdown. Protests are expected around France on Saturday against virus-related layoffs and to support those arrested for holding a techno rave party despite virus restrictions.France has seen 72,647 virus-related deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/dont-talk-on-public-transport-to-curb-covid-spread-advise-french-doctors-101611406921459.html
23-01-2021||World||Larry King, program host who interviewed presidents, dies at 87||Larry King, the broadcast interviewer whose nonconfrontational style attracted celebrities and newsmakers as guests and made him the star of a top-rated U.S. cable talk show, has died. He was 87.King died Saturday morning at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles, according to a statement on his official Twitter account. The cause of death wasn’t provided but he had spent time recently undergoing treatment for Covid-19. He had bypass surgery following a heart attack in 1987 and later was treated twice for cancer.King, the host of a popular nighttime radio call-in show in the 1970s and 1980s, vaulted into nationwide prominence after CNN owner Ted Turner persuaded him to join his fledgling network in 1985. His show, “Larry King Live,” became a popular TV interview program whose fans included President George H.W. Bush. King interviewed every sitting president from Gerald Ford to Barack Obama.After 25 years on cable, King announced in 2010 that he would retire, having slipped behind Sean Hannity at Fox News and Rachel Maddow at MSNBC in cable ratings. By the time he left, he estimated he’d done about 50,000 interviews during more than a half century on radio and television. He won an Emmy award for lifetime achievement in 2011.Informal approach“His brand of informality has become common in the age of podcasting,” Los Angeles Times TV critic Robert Lloyd said in 2018 after King’s new show, seen on Hulu, was nominated for two daytime Emmys. “No one has done this job better, or with more gusto.”In his CNN program, King got a ratings spike from Ross Perot, who announced on air in 1992 that he would run for the president as an independent. In 1993, Vice President Al Gore and Perot debated the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) on King’s show, the highest-rated cable program for more than a decade.King interviewed world leaders. including Russian President Vladimir Putin, performers such as Lady Gaga, and an assortment of athletes, actors, national heroes and unknown individuals suddenly tossed into the limelight. Marlon Brando famously kissed King on the lips on air — as did his onetime girlfriend Angie Dickinson, the sultry TV actress.King said he left it to this producers to pick his guests and did not prepare much, preferring to ask simple questions and listen carefully to the answers.King, who pitched a variety of products on radio and TV, used his show to raise funds for disaster relief after natural disasters hit New Orleans and Haiti.Legal scandalHis rise to prominence involved an epic comeback after he was charged in 1971 with grand larceny for taking $5,000 from financier Louis Wolfson and using it to pay back taxes rather than giving it to the intended recipient.Though never prosecuted, he was fired from his various broadcast and newspaper-column jobs in Florida. By the late 1970s, the incident had blown over, and he was able to return to Miami broadcasting.In 1978, he started a nightly coast-to-coast radio talk show on the Mutual Radio Network, called “The Larry King Show.” It featured guest interviews and call-ins from an audience listening to more than 500 affiliate stations.After joining CNN, King published several best-selling books, including his autobiography, ”My Remarkable Journey” in 2009. He also wrote a book on heart disease after suffering a heart attack.He was inducted into the Radio, Cable and Broadcasters Halls of Fame and won 10 Cable ACE awards.Carlos slim partnershipKing and Mexican billionaire Carlos Slim started Ora.TV, a digital entertainment network and production company in 2012. Its programs include “Larry King Now,” “Off the Grid With Jesse Ventura” and “Brown Bag Wine Tasting With William Shatner.”Larry King was born Lawrence Zeiger on Nov. 19, 1933, in Brooklyn, New York, to immigrant Jewish parents. He got his start in broadcasting in the Florida market, where a friend had told him there was a shortage of on-air talent. He started at WAHR (now WMBM) in Miami Beach, initially as a cleaner. When an announcer suddenly quit, King was put on air.He was married eight times — including twice to the same woman -- and had five children, two of whom died in 2020.King won a Peabody award for live election coverage in 1992 “for providing a unique insight into democracy for viewers everywhere CNN can be seen.” The judges said that “while at one extreme the campaign was analyzed ad infinitum by political pundits, and at the other trivialized by a seemingly endless array of national and local talk-show hosts, ‘Larry King Live’ took an important middle ground. As an interviewer, Mr. King let the candidates speak for themselves and let his national and international viewers ask the questions that reveal the character of the people who would lead our nation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-television-host-larry-king-dies-at-87-101611408033818.html
23-01-2021||World||Alexei Navalny's wife says detained at Moscow protest||Yulia Navalnaya, the wife of jailed Kremlin critic Alexei Navalny, said Saturday she was detained at an anti-government demonstration in Moscow called by her husband."Apologies for the poor quality. Very bad light in the police van," she wrote on Instagram with an accompanying photo, after thousands of Navalny supporters joined nationwide demonstrations against the Kremlin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/alexei-navalny-s-wife-says-detained-at-moscow-protest-101611407743442.html
23-01-2021||World||At 78 and the oldest president, Joe Biden sees a world changed||When Joe Biden took the oath of office as the 46th president, he became not only the oldest newly inaugurated U.S. chief executive in history but also the oldest sitting president ever.Biden was born Nov. 20, 1942, in Scranton, Pennsylvania. He was 78 years, two months and one day old when he was sworn in on Wednesday. That’s 78 days older than President Ronald Reagan was when he left office in 1989.A look at how the country Biden now leads has changed over his lifetime and how his presidency might reflect that.BIGGER, MORE DIVERSE PIEThe U.S. population is approaching 330 million people, dwarfing the 135 million at Biden's birth and nearly 60% greater than when he was first elected to the Senate in 1972. The world population in Biden’s lifetime has grown from about 2.3 billion to 7.8 billion.More striking is the diversity in Biden’s America. The descendant of Irish immigrants, Biden was born during a period of relative stagnant immigration after U.S. limitations on new entries in the 1920s, followed by a worldwide depression in the 1930s. But a wave of European immigration followed World War II, when Biden was young, and more recently an influx of Hispanic and nonwhite immigrants from Latin America, Asia and Africa has altered the melting pot again.In 1950, the first census after Biden’s birth counted the country as 89% white. Heading into 2020, the country was 60% non-Hispanic white and 76% white, including Hispanic whites.So, it’s no surprise that a politician who joined an all-male, nearly all-white Senate as a 30-year-old used his inaugural address 48 years later to promise a reckoning on racial justice and, later that afternoon, signed several immigrant-friendly executive orders.BIDEN, HARRIS AND HISTORYBiden took special note of Vice President Kamala Harris as the first woman elected to national office, and the first Black woman and south Asian woman to reach the vice presidency. “Don’t tell me things can’t change,” he said of Harris, who was a student in the still-mostly segregated Oakland public elementary school when Biden became a senator.The first time Biden addresses a joint session of Congress, there will be two women behind a president, another first: Harris and Speaker Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif. But change comes slowly. Harris was just the second Black woman ever to serve in the Senate. When she resigned Monday, the Senate was left with none -- and just three Black men out of 100 seats. Black Americans account for about 13% of the population.MONEY MATTERSMinimum wage in 1942 was 30 cents an hour. Median income for men according to the 1940 census, the last before Biden's birth, was $956, with women earning about 62 cents for every dollar a man earned. Today, the minimum wage is $7.25. The federal government's most recent weekly wage statistics reflect a median annual income of about $51,100 for full-time workers. But the question is buying power, and that varies. The month Biden was born, a dozen eggs averaged about 60 cents in U.S. cities -- two hours of minimum wage work. A loaf of bread was 9 cents, about 20 minutes of work. Today, eggs can go for about $1.50 (12 minutes of minimum-wage work); a loaf of bread averages $2 (16 minutes).College tuition is another story. Pre-war tuition at Harvard Business School was about $600 a year -- roughly two-thirds of the median American worker’s yearly wages. Today, the current Harvard MBA class is charged annual tuition of more than $73,000, or a year and almost five months of the median U.S. salary (and that’s before taxes).Biden proposes raising the minimum wage to $15 an hour -- a move already drawing opposition from Republicans. He’s called for tuition-free two-year community and technical college and tuition waivers for four-year public schools (so, not Harvard) for students from households with $125,000 or less in annual income.DEBTNational debt has soared in Biden’s lifetime, from $72 billion to $27 trillion. But it’s a recent phenomenon. Biden finished 36 years in the Senate and became vice president amid the fallout from the 2008 financial crash, when the debt was about $10 trillion. Now he takes office amid another economic calamity: the coronavirus pandemic.To some degree, this is a biographical bookend for Biden. He was born when borrowing to finance the war effort generated budget deficits that, when measured as percentage of the overall economy, were the largest in U.S. history until 2020, when emergency Covid spending, the 2017 tax cuts and loss of revenue from a lagging economy added trillions of debt in a single year.Reflecting how President Franklin Roosevelt approached the Great Depression and World War II, Biden is nonetheless calling for an additional $1.9 trillion in immediate deficit spending to prevent a long-term economic slide.PLANES, TRANES AND AUTOMOBILESAs part of his proposed overhaul of the energy grid, Biden wants to install 500,000 electric vehicle charging stations by 2030, a move analysts project could spur the sale of 25 million electric vehicles. For context, federal statistics counted 33 million cars in the U.S. altogether in 1948, as Biden began grammar school.A FIRST FOR THE SILENT GENERATIONBiden is part of the Silent Generation, so named because it falls between the “Greatest Generation” that endured the Depression and won World War II, and their children, the Baby Boomers, who made their mark through the sweeping social and economic changes of the civil rights era, Vietnam and the Cold War.True to the stereotypes, Biden’s generation looked for decades as if it would never see one of its own in the Oval Office. The Greatest Generation produced John F. Kennedy, Lyndon Johnson, Richard Nixon, Gerald Ford, Jimmy Carter, Reagan and George H.W. Bush. Then Boomers took over. Bill Clinton, George W. Bush and Donald Trump were born in a span of 67 days in 1946, the first of the Boomer years. Barack Obama, born in 1961, bookended their generation as a young Boomer.If his inaugural address is any indication, Biden seems eager to embrace the characteristics of his flanking generations. He ticked through the “cascading crises” -- a pandemic and economic fallout reminiscent of the Depression and subsequent war effort, a reckoning on race that’s an extension of the civil rights era -- and summoned the nation “to the tasks of our time.”PLENTY OF FIRST-HAND LEARNINGBiden lived through 14 presidencies before beginning his own, nearly one-third of all presidents. No previous White House occupant had lived through so many administrations before taking office.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/at-78-and-the-oldest-president-joe-biden-sees-a-world-changed-101611406766286.html
23-01-2021||World||Covid-19: UK Prime Minister's TV spokesperson self-isolates over virus fears||UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson's TV spokesperson, Allegra Stratton, has self-quarantined after possibly coming in contact with a Covid-19 patient, according to local media reports.Stratton is the latest UK government official, who has been forced into quarantine. Stratton has been leading Downing Street's televised press briefings since November last year, according to the Daily Mail newspaper.On Tuesday, UK Health Minister Matt Hancock had self-isolated over the risk of coronavirus infection.Boris Johnson on Friday had said there is evidence that the new variant of the coronavirus, which was first detected in the UK last month, may be associated with a higher degree of mortality."We have been informed today that, in addition to spreading more quickly, it also now appears that there is some evidence that the new variant, the variant that was first identified in London and the South East, may be associated with a higher degree of mortality," Johnson told a press briefing.According to John Hopkins University, UK has recorded 3,594,094 Covid-19 cases and 96,166 virus-related deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid19-uk-prime-minister-s-tv-spokesperson-self-isolates-over-virus-fears-101611406991813.html
23-01-2021||World||List of countries under restrictions a year after world's first coronavirus lockdown in Wuhan||With the rise in the coronavirus cases, Hong Kong has imposed temporary lockdown in the Yau Ma Tei and Jordan areas for the first time. The authorities have said that the move is being carried out for the mandatory testing of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), as reported by Bloomberg.Hong Kong's Kowloon area is not the only place still facing strict restrictions after a year of the world's first lockdown in the Wuhan city of China.Also Read | From the Bubonic plague to 2021, why lockdowns look set to stayHere is the list of countries still under lockdown to contain the spread of the coronavirus.1. China: After reporting various new cases of Covid-19 in mainland China, new restrictions have been imposed in the financial hub of Shanghai. Shanghai's health commission has designated Baoshan district as medium risk and locked down neighbourhood places around the district after two new cases were reported. Wuhan has also shut down transportation and halted outgoing flights to contain the spread. Mainland China has reported 88,911 total confirmed cases, as per Reuters.2. Norway: The Nordic country has also imposed one of the strictest lockdowns since March in its capital Oslo to contain the spread of the dangerous coronavirus mutant found in the UK.3. Ireland: Ireland after discussing with British Prime Minister Boris Johnson is also mulling further tightening of travel restrictions to contain the spread of the coronavirus mutant discovered in Britain.4. Denmark: All flights from the United Arab Emirates have been temporarily suspended by the country for five days. The halt in the flights from the UAE comes as Denmark suspects unreliable coronavirus testing at the airport before the departure from Dubai, as reported by AP.5. France: Health Minister Olivier Veran of the European country was quoted by Bloomberg as saying that a decision on another lockdown, which would be a third one, or tighter restrictions can be made within coming days or weeks as the more contagious variants of the virus spread.6. United Kingdom: The country is currently shut under its third lockdown after a more contagious variant of coronavirus was discovered in south England. Prime Minister Boris Johnson has recently said that while the new variant is more contagious, it may be “associated with a higher degree of mortality", reported Bloomberg.7. Germany: Germany is another country that has been under lockdown since mid-December. The lockdown measures in the country have recently been expanded by another two weeks till February 14, as reported by Reuters.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/list-of-countries-under-restrictions-a-year-after-world-s-first-coronavirus-lockdown-in-wuhan-101611405131136.html
23-01-2021||World||French health body HAS recommends six weeks gap between Covid-19 vaccine shots||France's top health advisory body on Saturday recommended doubling the time between people being given the first and second Covid-19 vaccinations to six weeks from three in order to increase the number getting inoculated.The gap between the first and second injection in France is currently three weeks for people in retirement homes, who take priority, and four weeks for others such as health workers.The Haute Autorite de Sante (HAS) said spacing out the two required vaccinations of the Pfizer/BioNtech and Moderna vaccines would allow the treatment of at least 700,000 more people in the first month."The growing number of infections and the worrying arrival of new variants call for an acceleration of the vaccination campaign in order to prevent the epidemic from spiking in coming weeks," the HAS said in a statement.The HAS said that while there is no agreement between different countries about the optimal timelag between the two shots, it seemed reasonable to delay the second injection to six weeks as the first shot would already provide protection against the coronavirus from the 12th or 14th day after the injection.It added it was essential for people to get a second injection.The HAS is an independent advisory body whose recommendations can inspire government policy but don't automatically translate into action.The World Health Organization said early this month that people should get two doses of the Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine within 21 to 28 days.Several countries are considering ways to stretch scarce supplies of Covid-19 vaccines, including by delaying dosing intervals or reducing dose sizes.In Britain, regulators have ruled that shots can be administered up to 12 weeks apart, though a group of British doctors have written to England's chief medical officer to tell him to cut the gap between doses of the Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine to six weeks.Pfizer and BioNTech have warned they have no evidence their vaccine would continue to be protective if the second dose is given more than 21 days after the first.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/french-health-body-has-recommends-six-weeks-gap-between-covid-19-vaccine-shots-101611405492054.html
23-01-2021||World||TikTok reviews Italian data watchdog’s order to block accounts||TikTok, ByteDance Ltd.’s social media app, said the company is reviewing the Italian data-protection authority’s orders to block unverified accounts of younger users.The privacy watchdog told TikTok on Friday to block the accounts of users in the country whose age it couldn’t verify at least until Feb. 15, according to a statement by the regulator.“Privacy and safety are top priorities for TikTok and we are constantly strengthening our policies, processes and technologies to protect all users, and our younger users in particular,” a TikTok spokesperson said in an email response to a Bloomberg News inquiry.The government order was reported by Reuters earlier. The strengthening of rules came after a 10-year-old girl died of asphyxiation in Palermo, Sicily, while taking part in a so-called blackout challenge on TikTok, the news agency cited her parents as saying.TikTok has come under increased scrutiny by European Union regulators over data on children. Ireland’s data-privacy watchdog recently took over related probes from the French and Danish authorities.The EU’s data-protection chiefs in June pledged to coordinate potential investigations into the Chinese company, establishing a taskforce to get a better understanding of Tiktok’s processing and practices.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/tiktok-reviews-italian-data-watchdog-s-order-to-block-accounts-101611400430774.html
23-01-2021||World||Norway locks down Oslo area to fight spread of new Covid-19 Variant||Norway is imposing the strictest measures since March 12 in the area around the capital in an attempt to suppress infections of the more contagious coronavirus variant.All shops, cinemas, restaurants and churches will be closed and the service of alcohol banned until Jan. 31, Health Minister Bent Hoie announced in a webcast speech on Saturday. Amateur sports and leisure activities won’t be allowed.“This is a very serious situation, and we must do what we can to stop the outbreak,” Hoie said. “If the virus mutation spreads in Oslo, it will be very difficult to prevent it from spreading to the rest of the country.”Having withstood the pandemic better than most in 2020, Norway managed to put a cap on higher infection rates after the Christmas holidays and has so far avoided the level of contagion seen in neighboring Sweden and Denmark. The new variant was detected on Friday in two nursing home residents in Nordre Follo bordering Oslo, with no known route of transmission.Under the new rules to take effect from midday on Saturday, grocery stores, chemists and gas stations will be allowed to remain open and funerals will be permitted. The measures are based on the assumption that the new variant is more infectious, but not necessarily more dangerous, the health minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/norway-locks-down-oslo-area-to-fight-spread-of-new-covid-19-variant-101611399147131.html
23-01-2021||World||Italy tells TikTok to block users after death of young girl||The Italian data privacy watchdog ordered video app TikTok on Friday to block the accounts of any users in Italy whose age it could not verify following the death of a 10-year-old girl who had been using the Chinese-owned app.In a statement, the regulator said that although TikTok had committed to ban registration for children aged under 13, it was nonetheless easy to circumvent this rule.As a result, it said TikTok had to block unverified user accounts until at least February 15 awaiting further information.A spokeswoman for TikTok in Italy said the company was analysing the communication received from the authority."Privacy and safety are absolute priorities for TikTok and we are constantly working to strengthen our policies, our processes and our technologies to protect our community and younger users in particular," she said in an emailed comment.Owned by China's ByteDance, TikTok has been rapidly growing in popularity around the world, particularly among teenagers.The ruling came after a girl died of asphyxiation in Palermo, Sicily, in a case that has shocked Italy.Her parents said she had been participating in a so-called blackout challenge on TikTok, putting a belt around her neck and holding her breath while recording herself on her phone."TikTok was her world. And YouTube. That's how she spent her time," the girl's father Angelo Sicomero was quoted as saying in Saturday's Corriere della Sera newspaper.INVESTIGATIONProsecutors have opened an investigation into possible incitement to suicide and are looking to see whether someone invited the girl to take part in the challenge."The watchdog decided to intervene as a matter of urgency following the terrible case of the 10-year-old girl from Palermo," the authority said.It said TikTok was banned from "further processing user data for which there is no absolute certainty of age and, consequently, of compliance with the provisions related to the age requirement".An official said this meant that users of unverified accounts would no longer be able to upload videos or interact with other people on the platform.The watchdog said it had raised concerns with TikTok in December over what it called a series of violations, including allegations the firm had failed to protect minors.It added that it had told the authorities in Ireland about its decision because TikTok has announced that it would run its European operations out of Dublin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/italy-tells-tiktok-to-block-users-after-death-of-young-girl-101611393661949.html
23-01-2021||World||In phone call with Biden, Trudeau expresses disappointment over US stance on Keystone XL pipeline||Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau has expressed his disappointment to US President Joe Biden in a telephonic conversation between the two over Washington’s decision to cancel permission for the controversial Keystone XL oil pipeline project.Trudeau has been under pressure from several premiers of Canadians provinces to press America on the matter and threaten economic sanctions if the project is not revived. According to Canadian media outlets, Biden’s team has made it clear that the decision is “final”. CBC News reported that Biden stood by the decision and pointed out that he was fulfilling a campaign promise. A Canadian readout said Trudeau “underscored the important economic and energy security benefits of our bilateral energy relationship as well as his support for energy workers”.The readout added that the conversation, lasting nearly 30 minutes, was amicable and positive, and the two leaders have agreed to meet in person in February “in order to advance the important work of renewing the deep and enduring friendship between Canada and the United States”.Also on the agenda was the fate of two Canadians, Michael Kovrig and Michael Spavor, who have been in captivity for over two years in China in retaliation to the arrest of senior Huawei executive Meng Wanzhou in Vancouver in 2018. The pandemic featured in the dialogue as they discussed working closely to defeat Covid-19 by responding to new variants and following expert advice, and “collaboration on vaccines”.There was also agreement on the environmental agenda as they agreed on the “urgent need for ambitious action on climate change”, reaffirmed their commitment to the Paris Agreement, and on working together on “net-zero emissions, zero-emissions vehicles, cross-border clean electricity transmission, and the Arctic”.Expanding cooperation with regard to continental defence and promoting diversity and inclusion also featured in the conversation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/in-phone-call-with-biden-trudeau-expresses-disappointment-over-us-stance-on-keystone-xl-pipeline-101611394130021.html
23-01-2021||World||UK doctors call for shorter gap between Pfizer vaccine doses||A group of British doctors have written to England's chief medical officer to tell him to cut the gap between doses of the Pfizer and BioNTech vaccine to six weeks from up to 12.Britain is prioritising giving first doses of Covid-19 vaccine, allowing up to 12 weeks before a second dose, to give the maximum number of people some initial protection.But Pfizer and BioNTech have warned they have no evidence their vaccine would continue to be protective if the second dose is given more than 21 days after the first.The British Medical Association (BMA) said in a statement emailed on Saturday that it has written to the Chief Medical Officer (CMO) for England Chris Whitty.The BMA said it supports giving a second dose up to 42 days after the first dose, but that a longer gap is not in line with World Health Organization guidance.It therefore urged the CMO to "urgently review the UK's current position of second doses after 12 weeks"."The UK’s strategy has become increasingly isolated from many other countries," the BMA said."BMA members are also concerned that, given the unpredictability of supplies, there may not be any guarantees that second doses of the Pfizer vaccine will be available in 12 weeks’ time."Whitty told a media conference on Friday that the longer gap between doses was a "public health decision" aimed at vaccinating many more people and based on a belief that the great majority of protection comes from the first jab.Britain is using two vaccines, one from Pfizer and the other from AstraZeneca.AstraZeneca has supported the gap between its jabs, saying data showed an 8-12 week gap was a "sweet spot" for efficacy.The Department of Health and Social Care (DHSC) said in an emailed statement that its priority was to protect as many people as possible as quickly as possible."The decision...to change vaccine dosage intervals followed a thorough review of the data and was in line with the recommendations of the UK’s four chief medical officers," a DHSC spokeswoman said.Some 5.38 million people have been given a first dose of vaccine in the UK, government data showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-doctors-call-for-shorter-gap-between-pfizer-vaccine-doses-101611392244909.html
23-01-2021||World||Russia arrests protesters demanding Alexei Navalny's release||Russian police are arresting protesters demanding the release of top Russian opposition leader Alexei Navalny at demonstrations in the country’s east and larger unsanctioned rallies are expected later Saturday in Moscow and other major cities.Navalny, who is President Vladimir Putin’s most prominent and durable foe, was arrested on Jan. 17 when he returned to Moscow from Germany, where he had spent five months recovering from a severe nerve-agent poisoning that he blames on the Kremlin.Authorities say his stay in Germany violated terms of a suspended sentence in a criminal conviction in a case that Navalny says was illegitimate. He is to appear in court in early February to determine if he will serve the 3 1/2-year sentence in prison.The OVD-Info organization that monitors political detentions said at least 48 people were detained in cities including Vladivostok and Khabarovsk. Organizers in Vladivostok said about 3,000 people turned out for the protest there.Turnout is likely to be much larger for the afternoon protest planned in Moscow, which the city's mayor and other authorities have warned people against attending.Moscow police on Thursday arrested three top Navalny associates, two of whom were later jailed for periods of nine and 10 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/russia-arrests-protesters-demanding-alexei-navalny-s-release-101611391206881.html
23-01-2021||World||Donald Trump mulled replacing attorney general over election results: Report||Donald Trump considered replacing then-acting US attorney general Jeffrey A. Rosen with a Justice Department lawyer who would help him force Georgia officials to overturn the state's election result, US media reported late Friday.The New York Times said Trump only decided against the move when told that all remaining top officials at the Justice Department would resign en masse if the plan went ahead.The news, also reported in the Washington Post, comes as Trump is set to face a Senate trial for "incitement of insurrection" over his role in whipping up supporters with unfounded claims of election fraud before they stormed the US Capitol in early January.Trump narrowly lost Georgia to Joe Biden in the November presidential election, in a vote he baselessly claimed was rigged.The reports describe Trump's increasing frustration with Rosen's refusal to wield the power of the Justice Department to interfere in the count.He and Jeffrey Clark, a Justice Department lawyer who supported Trump's assertions that the election was stolen, allegedly came up with a plan to replace Rosen with Clark.But at a three-hour showdown involving the three men, which officials cited in the New York Times compared to an episode of Trump's reality show "The Apprentice," the then-president backed down after being told the move would prompt mass resignations.Clark categorically denied that he devised any plan to oust Rosen and said there were inaccuracies in the reporting.Trump, Rosen and the US Justice Department have not publicly responded to the allegations.In early January, a leaked audio tape in which Trump pressured Georgia's secretary of state to "find" enough votes to overturn the defeat sent shockwaves across Washington.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-mulled-replacing-attorney-general-over-election-results-report-101611390879622.html
23-01-2021||World||Top Iran leader posts Trump-like image with drone, vows revenge||The website of Iran's Supreme Leader on Friday carried the image of a golfer resembling former President Donald Trump apparently being targeted by a drone alongside a threat of revenge over last year's killing of a top Iranian general in a U.S. drone attack.The image first appeared on a Persian-language Twitter feed that carried a link to Ayatollah Ali Khamenei's website. Twitter took down that feed on Friday, saying it was fake.Underneath the website picture were remarks by Khamenei in December ahead of the first anniversary this month of the killing of military commander General Qassem Soleimani in Iraq, which was ordered by Trump."Both the murderers and those who ordered it should know that revenge may come at any time," said the comments on top of the image, which showed the shadow of a drone looming over the lone golfer. Trump, who regularly plays golf, was not named.U.S.-Iran tensions grew rapidly after 2018, when Trump exited a 2015 nuclear deal between Tehran and six world powers and reimposed crippling sanctions.Tehran retaliated for Soleimani's killing with missile strikes against U.S. targets in Iraq but the two sides backed away from further confrontation.High tension and risk of war appeared to subside with the end of Trump's term. His successor President Joe Biden, sworn in on Wednesday, has said Washington seeks to lengthen and strengthen the nuclear constraints on Iran through diplomacy.Emily Horne, a spokeswoman for the Biden White House National Security Council, said "these kinds of threats from Iran are unacceptable.""We strongly condemn this provocative action. We will continue to work with our friends and partners to counter Iran’s malign influence," she said in response to a request for comment.The top Republican on the U.S. House Foreign Affairs Committee, Michael McCaul, earlier urged the Biden administration "to respond quickly and forcefully to this provocative threat against a former president" and called on Twitter to immediately and permanently suspend Khamenei's account.An official close to Khamenei’s inner circle said: "The aim (of the tweet) was to remind the gambler (Trump) that leaving office does not mean he will be safe and the assassination of our martyr Soleimani will be forgotten.""And now, American troops cannot protect him,” the official, who asked not to be named, told Reuters without elaborating.POWERFUL GENERALSoleimani, the commander of Iran's elite Quds Force, was responsible for clandestine overseas operations and was widely seen as the second most powerful figure in Iran after Khamenei.Iran's military and clerical rulers have said Tehran would choose the time and place of Soleimani's revenge.A Tehran-based analyst said the threat could be an end in itself: "The intention of the tweet seems to be keeping alive the spectre of revenge, which perhaps by itself is a kind of revenge."A Twitter spokeswoman said the @khamenei_site account was suspended for violating the company's platform manipulation and spam policy, specifically against the creation of fake accounts. Asked if the @khamenei_site account was fake, she said it was.Iranian officials were not immediately available to comment.The golfer image tweet was retweeted by Khamenei's main Persian-language account @Khamenei-fa, although it appeared to have been deleted later. The text and graphic of the tweet later carried by Khamenei's official website (farsi.khamenei.ir) was also widely quoted by Iranian media.Khamenei's @Khamenei_fa account and his main Twitter account in English, which did not carry the golfer image tweet, were still operational.Earlier this month, Twitter removed a tweet by Khamenei in which he said U.S.- and British-made vaccines were unreliable and may be intended to "contaminate other nations" for violating its rules against misinformation.Exiled rights activists renewed calls for Twitter to ban Khamenei. "I hope the world can see how they (Iranian officials) can use social media to promote violence," U.S.-based activist Massih Alinejad told Reuters.Twitter permanently suspended Trump's account following the Jan. 6 storming of the U.S. Capitol by some of his supporters, citing the risk of further incitement of violence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/top-iran-leader-posts-trump-like-image-with-drone-vows-revenge-101611389536864.html
23-01-2021||World||China Embassy refutes report it’s seeking meeting with the US||The Chinese embassy in the United States on Saturday refuted a Wall Street Journal report that said Beijing was pushing for a high-level meeting to ease tensions between the world’s two largest economies.China has discussed a proposal to send Politburo member Yang Jiechi to Washington, and Ambassador Cui Tiankai suggested the idea in letters to US officials and through conversations with intermediaries, the Wall Street Journal reported, citing people with knowledge of the matter.“This report is not true to facts. The Chinese side never wrote such letters,” the Chinese embassy said in a statement posted on its website Saturday that cited an unnamed spokesperson. “We hope the media concerned respect the facts and report on Sino-US relations in an objective and responsible manner.”Both China and the US should focus on cooperation and manage their disputes in order to facilitate healthy and stable relations, according to the statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-embassy-refutes-report-it-s-seeking-meeting-with-the-us-101611390102986.html
23-01-2021||World||Joe Biden signs executive orders to boost economic relief for Americans||US President Joe Biden has signed a slew of executive orders, including a one to fix the country's economy which has been battered by the once-in-a-century public health crisis that has also left some 18 million Americans unemployed.On day three of his presidency, Biden announced 'The American Rescue Plan' that includes economic relief for most Americans who are in need and to boost economic relief for the people struggling during the coronavirus pandemic.“We are going to finish the job of getting a total of USD 2,000 in direct payments to folks, USD 600 which was already passed is simply not enough if you still have to choose between paying your rent and putting food on the table,” he said.“We cannot, will not let people go hungry. We cannot let people be evicted because of nothing they did themselves. … We have to act,” he said in remarks at the White House.Biden said under his rescue plan, the economy would return to full employment a year faster than without the plan.On January 15, while announcing the USD 1.9 trillion coronavirus stimulus plan to revive the US economy, Biden said that millions of Americans through no fault of their own have lost the dignity and respect that comes with a job and a paycheck.Some 18 million Americans are still relying on unemployment insurance and nearly 400,000 small businesses have permanently closed their doors.“It's not just to meet the moral obligation to treat our fellow Americans with the dignity and respect they deserve, this is an economic imperative, a growing economic consensus that we must act decisively and boldly to grow the economy for all Americans not just for tomorrow but in the future,” Biden said.He also said that unemployment insurance benefits will be extended for millions of workers beyond the deadline that is now set. It means that millions of Americans who are currently relying on unemployment benefits while they look for work can count on these checks continuing to be there in the middle of this crisis.Biden said his plan also addresses the growing housing crisis in America.Approximately 14 million Americans have fallen behind on rent, and many risk eviction.“If we fail to act, there will be a wave of evictions and foreclosures in the coming months as this pandemic rages on because there's nothing we can do to change the trajectory of the pandemic in the next several months,” he said.Biden said that he has directed his administration to extend nationwide restrictions on evictions and foreclosures. These crises are straining the budgets of states and cities, and tribal communities that are forced to consider layoffs and service reductions among essential workers, police officers, firefighters, first responders, nurses are all at the risk of losing their jobs.Over the last year, more than 600,000 educators have lost their jobs in cities and towns, he said.The American Rescue Plan would provide emergency funding to keep these essential workers on the job and maintain essential services. It will also help small businesses that are the engines of economic growth.“When you say small business, most people think the major corporate entities are the ones that hire everybody. These small businesses are the glue that holds, and they are important, but the small businesses hold the community the glue that holds these communities together,” he said.The recovery plan also calls for an increase in the minimum wage at least USD 15 an hour.“No one in America should work 40 hours a week, making below the poverty line; USD 15 gets people above the poverty line,” he said adding that the American Rescue Plan would lift 12 million Americans out of poverty and cut child poverty in half.“That is five million children lifted out of poverty. Our plan would reduce poverty in the black community by one-third and reduce poverty in the Hispanic community by almost 40 per cent,” he said.As a result of the pandemic, more than 10 million Americans are unemployed, 14 million renters are behind on payments, and 29 million adults - and at least 8 million children - are struggling with food insecurity, the White House said in a fact sheet. The US is the worst affected country from the pandemic with over 24,818,779 people hit with the coronavirus, according to the Johns Hopkins Coronavirus tracker.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/joe-biden-signs-executive-orders-to-boost-economic-relief-for-americans-101611389011763.html
23-01-2021||World||Joe Biden administration to review US-Taliban agreement||The Joe Biden administration said on Saturday that it will review the US-Taliban agreement signed last year to assess whether the Taliban is delivering on its commitments to cut ties with terror groups and reduce violence in Afghanistan.The commitment, made by new US National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan during a phone call to his Afghan counterpart Hamdullah Mohib, comes against the backdrop of concern across the region over a surge in violence and targeted assassinations blamed on the Taliban.Over the past few weeks, Afghan government officials, civil society activists and journalists have been targeted in bombings and attacks in Kabul and other cities across Afghanistan. On January 14, India had called for an immediate stop to the targeted attacks in Afghanistan and sought a comprehensive ceasefire to take forward efforts to usher in peace.Sullivan “underscored that the US will support the peace process with a robust and regional diplomatic effort, which will aim to help the two sides achieve a durable and just political settlement and permanent ceasefire,” said a readout from the US national security council.He also “made clear the United States’ intention to review the February 2020 US-Taliban agreement, including to assess whether the Taliban was living up to its commitments to cut ties with terrorist groups, to reduce violence in Afghanistan, and to engage in meaningful negotiations with the Afghan government and other stakeholders”, the readout said.Among the terror groups active in Afghanistan and having links with the Taliban are al-Qaeda and the Pakistan-based Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) and Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM). According to a UN report, there are some 6,500 Pakistani fighters active in Afghanistan.Sullivan told Mohib that the US is committed to the partnership with Afghanistan and to peace for all the people of the country. “He expressed America’s desire that all Afghan leaders embrace this historic opportunity for peace and stability,” the readout said.The two national security advisors also discussed US support for protecting the “extraordinary gains made by Afghan women, girls, and minority groups as part of the peace process”.India, the largest donor to Afghanistan in the region with pledges worth about $3 billion, has for long said it backs an Afghan-led, Afghan-owned and Afghan-supported peace process that leads to a solution which preserves the gains made over the past two decades.Sullivan also said the US is committed to consulting closely with the Afghan government, NATO allies and regional partners on a “collective strategy to support a stable, sovereign, and secure future for Afghanistan”.Mohin said on Twitter that he and Sullivan agreed to work for a “permanent ceasefire and a just and durable peace in a democratic Afghanistan, capable of preserving the gains of the past two decades, protecting the rights of all Afghans, and continuing the reforms”. The two sides, he said, will work closely on security, counter-terrorism and regional engagement.Also Read: US Prez Joe Biden respects successful ties with India: White HouseHe also cited Sullivan as saying that the US partnership with the Afghan government remains essential to US national security objectives.There was no word from the US and Afghan sides on the drawdown of American forces from Afghanistan. In keeping with former president Donald Trump’s directives, US force levels in Afghanistan are currently down to 2,500, a 19-year low.There were about 13,000 US troops in Afghanistan when the agreement with the Taliban was inked in Qatar on February 29 last year. The deal called for all American forces to leave the country by May.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/joe-biden-administration-to-review-us-taliban-agreement-101611388424857.html
23-01-2021||World||Biden administration launches inter-agency review of domestic extremism||The Biden administration has announced an inter-agency review of domestic extremism in the wake of the January 6 Capitol Hill attack by supporters of former president Donald Trump."The January 6 assault on the Capitol and the tragic deaths and destruction that occurred underscored what we have long known: The rise of domestic violent extremism is a serious and growing national security threat,” White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki told reporters at her daily news conference on Friday. The Biden administration will confront this threat with the necessary resources and resolve, she said.The Capitol Hill riot, which temporarily halted the counting of Electoral College votes, left five people dead and led to Trump's second impeachment. Law enforcement agencies are under scrutiny for their preparations for January 6.“We are committed to developing policies and strategies based on facts, on objective and rigorous analysis, and on a respect for constitutionally protected free speech and political activities," Psaki said.The initial work on Domestic Violent Extremism (DVE) will broadly fall into three areas, she said.The first is a tasking from President Joe Biden sent to the Director of National Intelligence (DNI) office requesting a comprehensive threat assessment, coordinated with the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) and the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) on domestic violent extremism.This assessment will draw on the analysis from across the government and, as appropriate, non-governmental organisations, Psaki said."The key point here is that we want fact-based analysis upon which we can shape policy. So this is really the first step in the process, and we'll rely on our appropriate law enforcement and intelligence officials to provide that analysis,” she said.The second will be the building of an National Security Council capability to focus on countering domestic violent extremism. As a part of this, the NSC will undertake a policy review effort to determine how the government can share information better about this threat, support efforts to prevent radicalisation, disrupt violent extremist networks, and more, she said.“There's important work already underway across the interagency in countering DVE, and we need to understand better its current extent and where there may be gaps to address, so we can determine the best path forward,” the White House press secretary said.Psaki said the third will be coordinating relevant parts of the federal government to enhance and accelerate efforts to address DVE."This considered, an NSC-convened process will focus on addressing evolving threats, radicalisation, the role of social media, opportunities to improve information sharing, operational responses, and more," she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biden-administration-launches-inter-agency-review-of-domestic-extremism-101611386508182.html
23-01-2021||World||North Korea sees talks as way to advance nuclear program, says US intel official||The top US intelligence officer for North Korea warned on Friday the country sees diplomacy only as a means to advance its nuclear weapons development, even as the new Biden administration says it will look for ways to bring Pyongyang back to talks.President Joe Biden's nominee for secretary of state, Antony Blinken, said on Tuesday the new administration planned a full review of the U.S. approach to North Korea to look at ways to increase pressure on it to return to the negotiating table.White House spokeswoman Jen Psaki reiterated this on Friday, saying North Korea's nuclear weapons were a serious threat to peace and Washington had a vital interest in deterring Pyongyang.Sydney Seiler, the U.S. national intelligence officer for North Korea, told the Center for Strategic and International Studies think tank earlier that Pyongyang's weapons development had been a consistent policy for 30 years."Every engagement in diplomacy has been designed to further the nuclear program, not to find a way out... I just urge people not to let the tactical ambiguity obstruct the strategic clarity about North Korea that we have," he said."So we should not be overly encouraged if suddenly (North Korea leader Kim Jong Un) proposes dialogue tomorrow, nor should we be overly surprised, or discouraged, if there's an ICBM (intercontinental ballistic missile) launch by Sunday."Seiler also said humanitarian aid - which Blinken said the United States should look at providing to North Korea if needed - was not something of interest to Pyongyang.The force North Korea seeks to develop, while part aspirational and part years away, was far more than that needed by a country that simply wanted to be left alone, Seiler said, adding: "That is where the real risk of inaction comes in."On Tuesday, Blinken had spoken of the review plan in response to a question by Democratic Senator Ed Markey, who asked whether Blinken would, with the ultimate aim of North Korea denuclearizing, support a "phased agreement" that offered tailored sanctions relief to Pyongyang in return for a freeze in its weapons programs.Biden's top Asia official, Kurt Campbell, has said the administration must decide its approach quickly and not repeat an Obama-era delay that led to "provocative" steps by Pyongyang that prevented engagement.Campbell also had some praise for former President Donald Trump's unprecedented summits with Kim, although these made no progress in curtailing a North Korean nuclear weapons program that expanded in the meantime.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/north-korea-sees-talks-as-way-to-advance-nuclear-program-says-us-intel-official-101611384860133.html
23-01-2021||World||Wuhan returns to normal as world still battling pandemic||A year ago, a notice sent to smartphones in Wuhan at 2 a.m. announced the world's first coronavirus lockdown that would last 76 days.Early Saturday morning, residents in the central Chinese city where the virus was first detected were jogging and practicing tai chi in a fog-shrouded park beside the mighty Yangtze River.Life has largely returned to normal in the city of 11 million, even as the rest of the world grapples with the spread of the virus' more contagious variants.Efforts to vaccinate people for Covid-19 have been frustrated by disarray and limited supplies in some places. The scourge has killed over 2 million people worldwide.Traffic was light in Wuhan but there was no sign of the barriers that a year ago isolated neighborhoods, prevented movement around the city and confined people to their housing compounds and even apartments.Wuhan accounted for the bulk of China's 4,635 deaths from COVID-19, a number that has largely stayed static for months. The city has been largely free of further outbreaks since the lockdown was lifted on April 8, but questions persist as to where the virus originated and whether Wuhan and Chinese authorities acted fast enough and with sufficient transparency to allow the world to prepare for a pandemic that has sickened more than 98 million.China on Saturday announced another 107 cases, bringing its total to 88,911. Of those, the northern province of Heilongjiang accounted for the largest number at 56.Beijing and the eastern financial hub of Shanghai both reported three new cases amid mass testing and lockdowns of hospitals and housing units linked to recent outbreaks.Authorities are wary of a new surge surrounding next month's Lunar New Year holiday and are telling people not to travel and to avoid gatherings as much as possible. Schools are being let out a week early and many have already shifted to online classes.Mask wearing remains virtually universal indoors and on public transport. Mobile phone apps are used to trace people's movements and prove they are both virus-free and have not been to areas where suspected cases have been found.Wuhan has been praised for its sacrifice in the service of the nation, turning it into a sort of Stalingrad in China's war against the virus, commemorated in books, documentaries, TV shows and florid panegyrics from officials including head of state and leader of the Communist Party Xi Jinping.China has doggedly defended its actions in the early days of the outbreak, saying it helped buy time for the rest of the world while pushing fringe theories that the virus was brought to the city from outside China, possibly from a laboratory in the US.After months of negotiations, China finally gave permission last week for the World Health Organization to send a team of international experts to begin investigating the virus' origins. They are currently undergoing two weeks of quarantine.A panel of experts commissioned by the WHO criticized China and other countries this week for not moving to stem the initial outbreak earlier, prompting Beijing to concede it could have done better.Meanwhile, in Hong Kong in southern China, thousands of residents were locked down Saturday in an unprecedented move to contain a worsening outbreak in the city.Hong Kong has been grappling to contain a fresh wave of the coronavirus since November. Over 4,300 cases have been recorded in the last two months, making up nearly 40% of the city's total.Authorities said in a statement that an area comprising 16 buildings in the working-class Yau Tsim Mong district will be locked down until all residents have been tested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/wuhan-returns-to-normal-as-world-still-battling-pandemic-101611384373199.html
23-01-2021||World||Trump administration's lack of honesty in handling Covid-19 'very likely' cost lives: Fauci||Chief Medical Advisor to the US President, Anthony Fauci said that the lack of truthfulness from the previous President Donald Trump's administration pertaining to the Covid-19 pandemic "very likely" cost American lives."Particularly when you're in the situation of almost being in a crisis with the number of cases and hospitalizations and deaths that we have -- when you start talking about things that make no sense medically and no sense scientifically, that clearly is not helpful," Director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID) said in an interview to CNN.When asked if the lack of candour over the last year and lack of facts, in some cases, lead to over 400,000 people dead from Covid-19, Fauci said, "You know, it very likely did."Fauci said that it's "not helpful" when "you're starting to go down paths that are not based on any science at all," adding that he doesn't wish to rehash the ways in which the Trump administration steered away from science.The Biden administration's approach to handling the Covid-19 pandemic will be "completely transparent, open and honest" with the American people, said Fauci on Thursday."If things go wrong, not point fingers but to correct them. And to make everything we do be based on science and evidence," he told reportersCNN reported that Fauci said that it was "uncomfortable" when things like hydroxychloroquine were promoted as treatments for Covid-19 when they weren't based on fact and that he takes "no pleasure at all in being in a situation of contradicting the President."The medical advisor to Biden said that it is a "liberating feeling" to now be able to "talk about what you know, what the evidence, what the science is," without fear of repercussions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-administration-s-lack-of-honesty-in-handling-covid-19-very-likely-cost-lives-fauci-101611383572186.html
23-01-2021||World||Donald Trump’s impeachment trial to start on February 9||The US Senate will put former President Donald Trump on impeachment trial on February 9 after a two-week delay agreed upon by Democratic and Republican leaders on Friday.The Democratic-led House of Representatives will convey the article of impeachment to the Senate, also controlled by Democrats now, on Monday at 7pm, as announced earlier on Friday. Impeachment managers, members of the House selected to argue for Trump’s conviction by the Senate, will be sworn in on Tuesday as prosecutors, as will be all the 100 Senators in their role as jurors.The delay will allow the Senate to confirm President Joe Biden’s cabinet nominees, something that he publicly called for on Friday. “The more time we have to get up and running to meet these crises, the better,” Biden told reporters. Republicans had wanted more time as well - three weeks, actually - for Trump to put together his defence team, which he has just started by hiring a lawyer.“The January 6th insurrection at the Capitol incited by Donald J. Trump was a day none of us will ever forget,” Chuck Schumer, the Democrat who heads the Senate as majority leader, said on the floor of the upper chamber. “We all want to put this awful chapter in our nation’s history behind us. But healing and unity will only come if there is truth and accountability, and that is what this trial will provide.”Republicans welcomed the deal as a “win for due process and fairness”.Trump was impeached on the charge of “incitement of insurrection” by the House of Representatives last week in a bipartisan vote. Ten Republicans had joined Democrats to deliver him a historic rebuke over a riot at the US Capitol. On January 6, Trump’s supporters had stormed the Capitol building to prevent a joint session of Congress from certifying Biden’s election win.Trump became thus the first American president to be impeached twice - the first was in December 2019. He is also the first US president to face impeachment trial after leaving office.Trump was acquitted by the Republican-led Senate in February 2020 after he was first impeachment in 2019. This time, however, Republicans feel less inclined to protect him. They are appalled by the attack he incited on the seat of US democracy and want to use the outrage to cleanse the party of his toxic influence.“Mitch said to me he wants Trump gone,” a Republican member of Congress told CNN, referring to Mitch McConnell, the top Republican in the Senate and a one-time Trump ally. “It is in his political interest to have him gone. It is in the GOP’s interest to have him gone. The question is, do we get there?”Republicans hold the key to Trump’s conviction or acquittal. In an evenly divided Senate, 17 of them will have to vote with the 50 Democrats to convict Trump. Only a majority of two-third in the Senate can convict a president - or a former president, as it is in this case.If Trump were still in office, a conviction in the impeachment trial would have terminated his presidency and led to his ouster from the White House. Now, when he is already out, a conviction will ban him from holding federal office in the future, shutting out his plan to run for president in 2024.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-s-impeachment-trial-to-start-on-february-9-101611382909557.html
23-01-2021||World||In hidden message on White House website, Biden calls for coders||The recently updated website for President Joe Biden's White House carried an invitation for tech specialists savvy enough to find it.Hidden in the HTML code on https://www.whitehouse.gov was an invitation to join the US Digital Service, a technology unit within the White House."If you're reading this, we need your help building back better," the message said.Former President Barack Obama launched the service in 2014 to recruit technologists to help revamp government services - for example by modernizing Medicare's payment system or reforming hiring practices across government agencies.Tech specialists join the Digital Service for typically one or two years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/in-hidden-message-on-white-house-website-biden-calls-for-coders-101611380637872.html
23-01-2021||World||Thousands of Hong Kongers locked down to contain coronavirus||Thousands of Hong Kong residents were locked down Saturday in an unprecedented move to contain a worsening outbreak in the city, authorities said.Hong Kong has been grappling to contain a fresh wave of the coronavirus since November. Over 4,300 cases have been recorded in the last two months, making up nearly 40% of the city’s total.Coronavirus cases in Hong Kong’s Yau Tsim Mong district – a working-class neighborhood with old buildings and subdivided flats – made up about half of the infections in the past week.Sewage testing in the area picked up more concentrated traces of the Covid-19 virus, prompting concerns that poorly built plumbing systems and a lack of ventilation in subdivided units may present a possible path for the virus to spread.Authorities said in a statement Saturday that an area comprising 16 buildings in Yau Tsim Mong will be locked down until all residents have undergone tests. Residents will not be allowed to leave their homes until they have received their test results to prevent cross-infection.“Persons subject to compulsory testing are required to stay in their premises until all such persons identified in the area have undergone testing and the test results are mostly ascertained,” the government said in a statement.Hong Kong has previously avoided lockdowns in the city during the pandemic, with leader Carrie Lam stating in July last year that authorities will avoid taking such “extreme measures” unless it had no other choice.The restrictions, which were announced at 4 a.m. in Hong Kong, are expected to end within 48 hours, the government said.It appealed to employers to exercise discretion and avoid docking the salary of employees who have been affected by the restrictions and may not be able to go to work.Hong Kong has seen a total of 9,929 infections in the city, with 168 deaths recorded as of Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/thousands-of-hong-kongers-locked-down-to-contain-coronavirus-101611366193444.html
23-01-2021||World||China adopts law letting coast guard fire on foreign vessels||China’s passed a controversial law that gives the coast guard more freedom to fire on foreign vessels, a move that could fuel the risk of military miscalculation in the Western Pacific.The law is aimed at “safeguarding national sovereignty, security and maritime rights,” the official Xinhua News Agency said in a report early Saturday. The law will take effect from Feb. 1.The China Coast Guard would be allowed to take “all necessary means,” including the use of weapons, to stop or prevent threats from foreign vessels, according to the text released by Xinhua. Coast guard personnel will be permitted to board and inspect foreign ships operating in China’s “jurisdictional waters,” a term covering areas claimed by other countries.The move could raise the risk of miscalculation in the vast areas of disputed waters that stretch out from China’s coast. Chinese coast guard ships often come into close contact -- sometimes engaging in tense standoffs -- with foreign vessels, as they assert Beijing’s claims to much of the South and East China seas.Chinese Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying told a regular briefing Friday in Beijing that the move was a “normal legislative activity of the NPC” and that China “will remain committed to upholding peace and stability in the sea.”Claims to the resource-rich waters of the South China Sea have put China at odds with Southeast Asia neighbors including Malaysia, the Philippines and Vietnam. In East China Sea, Chinese and Japanese government vessels routinely tail each other on patrols near uninhabited islands claimed by both sides.Earlier this week, Japanese diplomats in a conference call with Chinese counterparts expressed strong opposition to repeated incursions the country’s vessels near the disputed Senkaku Islands, which are known as the Diaoyus in China. The Chinese delegates urged the two sides to work to make the area a “sea of peace, cooperation and friendship,” the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in Beijing said.The law is China’s latest step to empower its coast guard, which was created in 2013 by merging several maritime agencies and incorporated in the People’s Armed Police in 2018. The fleet has increased its presence in disputed waters recently, including a stand-off with Vietnam in the South China Sea’s Vanguard Bank in 2019.The move could also prompt other nations to bolster their military presence in the waters, including the U.S. Then-National Security Adviser Robert O’Brien said last year that the U.S. Coast Guard was looking to expand its presence in the Pacific.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-adopts-law-letting-coast-guard-fire-on-foreign-vessels-101611366206382.html
23-01-2021||World||Biden, Trudeau to meet next month, collaborate on vaccines, medical supplies||Canada's Justin Trudeau and US President Joe Biden agreed to meet next month, the prime minister's office said on Friday, following a call between the two leaders in which they vowed to join forces to combat coronavirus in North America.Trudeau, who has been keen to embrace the new president and move on from the often tumultuous Donald Trump years, was the first foreign leader to speak with Biden since Wednesday's inauguration.The two "recognized that both countries’ fundamental priority is to end the global Covid-19 pandemic," Trudeau's office said in a statement. They also discussed collaboration on vaccines.It is not clear whether the meeting next month will be face to face or virtual, said a Canadian government source who requested anonymity given the sensitivity of the situation.The White House said the two leaders highlighted the "strategic importance of the U.S.-Canada relationship" and discussed cooperation on a wide-ranging agenda including combating Covid-19."It was a very positive call," the Canadian source said. "Biden really has a fondness for Canada. He understands that we are a partner and ally of the United States, which is a marked change from the last four years."Trudeau and Biden have stressed the need to do more to fight climate change and "they spent quite a about of time talking about that," the source added.Trudeau, the source said, raised two contentious topics - Biden's move to scrap a permit for the Keystone XL oil pipeline from Canada to the United States and his proposal to introduce a "Buy America" policy that would shut out Canadian firms from lucrative U.S. government projects.The two neighbors, with one of the world's largest bilateral trading relationships, have highly integrated economies, and Canada fears "Buy America" could hurt badly.Trudeau "made the point that we should avoid unintended consequences that can hurt both countries," said the source.Trudeau reiterated Canada's disappointment about the pipeline but did not try to change Biden's mind, the source said. Scrapping the project had been one of the Democrat's campaign commitments.The White House statement said Biden acknowledged Trudeau’s disappointment. Pipeline builder TC Energy Corp said it would eliminate more than 1,000 construction jobs in coming weeks due to the cancellation.The two leaders also agreed to expand cooperation on continental defense and in the Arctic, and said their respective top defense and foreign affairs would be meet at the earliest opportunity, the Canadian statement said.Trudeau urged Biden to remove duties against Canadian exports of softwood lumber, which U.S. industry has long protested are excessively subsidized. The two nations have been arguing over the exports for decades.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biden-trudeau-to-meet-next-month-collaborate-on-vaccines-medical-supplies-101611376232106.html
23-01-2021||World||Denmark suspends Dubai flights amid doubts over virus tests||Denmark has temporarily suspended all flights from the United Arab Emirates for five days after suspicion arose that the coronavirus tests that can be obtained before leaving Dubai are not reliable, authorities announced Friday.The development, which comes amid a surge of infections in the UAE, poses a direct challenge to the mass testing regime that had been the pillar of the country's coronavirus response and economic reopening. Dubai was one of the world’s first destinations to open up to tourists, welcoming visitors from anywhere with only a coronavirus test.Danish Transport Minister Benny Engelbrecht said the decision was made to allow the matter to be thoroughly investigated and ensure that the testing are being carried out properly.“We can’t ignore such a suspicion,” Engelbrecht said, adding that the ban entered into force on Thursday night.Danish authorities faced a “concrete and serious citizen inquiry into" how the tests are carried out at Dubai entry and exit points, he said, and “therefore we need to be absolutely sure that there are no problems.”Engelbrecht said at least “one citizen” brought the South African variant of the virus “back from Dubai." He did not identify further that person. Dubai has seen an increase in the number of South African residents as the country's economy deteriorated in recent years.Danish tabloid Ekstra Bladet said Friday there has been a second report of allegedly sloppy virus testing in Dubai, and cited Engelbrecht as saying “the information seem precise and valid.”Since Jan. 9, Denmark has required that all passengers arriving in the Scandinavian country have a negative coronavirus test or proof that they have recently had Covid-19, the illness caused by the virus, to limit the spread of the virus.In response to the move, UAE’s state-run WAM news agency carried a statement from a Foreign Ministry official stressing “that all accredited UAE testing centers are regularly subject to strict quality checks.”Emirati authorities were currently communicating with their Danish counterparts to clarify the reasons behind suspicions surrounding the virus testing, the statement added, noting the government imposed tough penalties for violations of international testing standards.On Jan. 8, Denmark’s Foreign Ministry advised against all travel abroad, including business travel. On Tuesday, Danish Prime Minister Mette Frederiksen told local media that “there is a reason why we really ask everyone not to travel. It’s really important that everyone listens."“There is a risk of bringing (virus) mutations to Denmark," she said. “It can undermine our epidemic control and thus infect others and what is worse.”In recent days, several Danish celebrities, socialites and influencers — such as former boxer Mikkel Kessler, former football international Nicklas Bendtner and table tennis ace Michael Maze — have traveled to Dubai and posted photos of themselves on social media.Lea Hvidt Kessler, the wife of the former super-middleweight world champion, wrote on Instagram that no one in their family that traveled to Dubai before Christmas was infected. According to media in Denmark, there are currently 85 Danish nationals there and about 800 permanent Danish residents in Dubai.On Friday, as the UAE shattered its 11th consecutive daily infection record with 3,552 new cases, Dubai's state-run media office announced strict new limits on weddings, social events and private parties beginning next Wednesday, restricting all gatherings to 10 immediate family members. Wedding parties at hotels and other venues previously had been capped at 200.The same day, Dubai ordered all gyms and restaurants to increase the physical space between trainees and diners. The city also put an immediate halt to all “entertainment activities” on boats and floating restaurants — a popular pastime in the city. Tourists and celebrities often flaunt their vacations on social media, posting photos of raucous, Champagne-soaked yacht parties that have splashed across tabloids in recent weeks. A day earlier, Dubai suspended all live bands and performances at nightclubs and bars in the city after hospitals were forced to pause non-urgent surgeries to deal with an influx of new Covid-19 patients.Tourists have flocked to Dubai in recent weeks despite the raging pandemic, escaping lockdowns back home. The glimmering city-state, with an economy largely built on tourism, aviation and retail, has promoted itself as an ideal pandemic vacation spot. Aside from the ubiquitous masks and hand sanitizer dispensers, a sense of pre-pandemic normalcy prevails in the crowded bars, massive malls and luxury hotels.Skyrocketing daily infections, which nearly tripled since November, failed to dent the normalcy even as more contagious variants of the coronavirus raced around the globe. The United Kingdom, which like Denmark sent droves of reality TV and sports stars to Dubai, closed its travel corridor with the UAE earlier this month.Since the start of the pandemic, the UAE has built its coronavirus response on an “early detection strategy," using Chinese-made coronavirus test kits to embark on one of the world's best testing campaigns at a time when other countries were struggling to obtain and administer PCR tests. As of Friday, the country of roughly 9 million had conducted some 24.2 million coronavirus tests.The U.S. State Department previously raised concerns that Chinese testing material was not accurate, without providing evidence about the allegation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/denmark-suspends-dubai-flights-amid-doubts-over-virus-tests-101611375578791.html
23-01-2021||World||Trial ahead, Trump turns to ethics lawyer for his defense||Butch Bowers is used to defending public officials in ethics cases. But he's never faced anything quite like this.It's up to Bowers, a South Carolina elections and ethics lawyer, to rise and defend Donald Trump as the Senate soon plunges into an impeachment trial unlike any other, centered on accusations that the former president incited the mob that rampaged through the US Capitol on Jan. 6. For Trump, the first president twice impeached, the stakes are enormous: If convicted, he could be barred from holding public office again, ending any hopes of mounting another White House bid in 2024.Trump turned to Bowers, a familiar figure in Republican legal circles, after other legal allies passed on the case. That's a notable departure from his first impeachment trial in 2020, when he had a stable of prominent attorneys — including Alan Dershowitz, Jay Sekulow, who represented him in the Russia investigation, and Kenneth Starr — standing in his corner.The first impeachment trial turned on charges that Trump improperly solicited Ukraine’s help for his reelection campaign. The Senate acquitted him of those charges. The new trial could hinge on broader issues of law, including “whether the Constitution even allows a post-impeachment action in the Senate,” said Sekulow, who is not participating in Trump’s legal defense.Sekulow said he did not expect Bowers, who has years of experience representing elected officials and political candidates — including former South Carolina Gov. Mark Sanford against a failed impeachment effort that morphed into an ethics probe — to be hindered by having never defended a current or former president in a Senate trial.“He’s an excellent lawyer with a tremendous reputation who understands the law and politics,” Sekulow said Friday.Republican Sen. Lindsey Graham recommended Bowers to Trump and told Fox News he sees him as the “anchor tenant” of Trump’s team. Trump adviser Jason Miller, who also ran Sanford’s gubernatorial and congressional campaigns, said Bowers “will do an excellent job defending President Trump.”Bowers did not respond to a message seeking comment.His strategy for Trump's defense is unclear, though questioning the validity of the trial is a clear option. Many Republicans in the Senate — the jurors he'll need to persuade — have said they harbor doubts about whether an impeachment trial for an ex-official is constitutional, even though it has happened before.The nine House managers prosecuting the case, meanwhile, will almost certainly focus on linking Trump’s remarks to supporters at a rally before the riot — including encouraging them to “fight like hell” — to the chaos that soon followed. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi will transmit the article of impeachment to the Senate on Monday, triggering the first phase of the trial.Opening arguments will begin the week of Feb. 8. Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer announced the schedule Friday evening after reaching an agreement with Republicans, who had pushed to delay the trial to give Trump a chance to organize his legal team and prepare a defense.Though perhaps nothing compares to the legal and political swirl of a Senate impeachment trial, Bowers does have experience both in Washington and in steering elected leaders through the fray.He has served as counsel to Sanford and another former governor, Nikki Haley, guiding her through an investigation into whether she had violated state ethics law.An ethics panel ultimately cleared Haley. Rob Godfrey, a longtime Haley adviser who worked closely with Bowers during his representation of the governor, said the lawyer “works hard, has an eye for detail and knows the law.”Bowers worked for Sanford when state lawmakers mulled impeaching him after revelations Sanford had disappeared from the state, leaving no chain of command for five days, to see his lover in Argentina in 2009. The effort never made it out of committee.Ensuing investigations by The Associated Press into Sanford’s other trips showed he had traveled on commercial airlines in high-priced seats despite the state’s low-cost travel rules and had used state planes for personal and political trips.At the time, Bowers predicted that the governor would be cleared, saying the charges were non-criminal and “limited to minor, technical matters.” Sanford went on to pay the largest ethics fine in state history — $74,000 — as well as nearly $37,000 to cover the costs of the investigation.Joel Sawyer, Sanford’s longtime spokesman, said Bowers’ strengths lie in his calm demeanor and determination to examine legal arguments without concern for pomp and politics.“If Donald Trump lets Butch be Butch and doesn’t try to make him be someone he’s not, in terms of making nutty legal arguments and seeking out television cameras, this will be a great fit for Butch,” Sawyer said. “If Trump wants him to be Rudy Giuliani or Sidney Powell 2.0, that’s not going to turn out well for anyone.”Bowers represented Gov. Henry McMaster — a close ally of Trump — in a fight over excessive contributions, a 2016 case that ended with the then-lieutenant governor agreeing to pay more than $70,000 in fines and reimbursements. Bowers and McMaster, a longtime fixture in South Carolina’s GOP politics, also at one time shared office space.Bowers was also a lawyer for former North Carolina Gov. Pat McCrory and the South Carolina Election Commission in litigation over voter ID laws, as well as a former South Carolina sheriff who pleaded guilty to embezzlement and misconduct in office. In 2018, he was attorney for University of South Carolina women’s basketball coach Dawn Staley in her successful defamation suit against Missouri’s athletics director.Bowers served as a special counsel on voting matters at the US Department of Justice under President George W. Bush, was Florida legal counsel for John McCain’s 2008 presidential campaign and chaired the South Carolina Election Commission from 2004 to 2007. With degrees from the University of South Carolina and College of Charleston, Bowers graduated from Tulane University School of Law in 1998.State Sen. Dick Harpootlian, a former South Carolina Democratic Party chairman and longtime friend of President Joe Biden who has several times faced Bowers in court, said he expected the “understated” Bowers — also a colonel in the South Carolina Air National Guard — to make decisions in the case based not on personality, what Harpootlian said was in contrast to Trump’s past lawyers.“Trump won't be able to make Butch someone that he’s not,” Harpootlian said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trial-ahead-trump-turns-to-ethics-lawyer-for-his-defense-101611371842953.html
23-01-2021||World||Biden's early approach to virus: Underpromise, overdeliver||It's a proven political strategy: Underpromise and overdeliver.President Joe Biden, in his first three days in office, has painted a bleak picture of the country's immediate future, warning Americans that it will take months, not weeks, to reorient a nation facing a historic convergence of crises.The dire language is meant as a call to action, but it's also a deliberate effort to temper expectations. In addition, it is an explicit rejection of President Donald Trump’s tack of talking down the coronavirus pandemic and its economic toll.Chris Lu, a longtime Obama administration official, said the grim tone is aimed at “restoring trust in government” that eroded during the Trump administration.“If you’re trying to get people to believe in this whole system of vaccinations, and if you want people to take seriously mask mandates, your leaders have to level with the American people,” he said.Biden said Thursday that “things are going to continue to get worse before they get better” and offered “the brutal truth” that it will take eight months before a majority of Americans will be vaccinated.On Friday, he declared outright: “There’s nothing we can do to change the trajectory of the pandemic in the next several months.”It's all part of Biden's pledge that his administration will "always be honest and transparent with you, about both the good news and the bad.”That approach, aides say, explains Biden’s decision to set clear and achievable goals for his new administration. The measured approach is drawing praise in some corners for being realistic -— but criticism from others for its caution.Trump often dismissed the seriousness of the virus and even acknowledged to journalist Bob Woodward that he deliberately played down the threat to the U.S. to prop up the economy. Even as death tolls and infection rates soared, Trump insisted the country was already “rounding the turn.”Dr. Amesh Adalja, a senior scholar at the Johns Hopkins Center for Health Security, said Biden’s pledge for 100 million vaccinations in his first 100 days in office might fall short of what’s needed to turn the tide on the virus.“Maybe they’re picking a number that’s easier to achieve, rather than the number that we need to achieve. I would urge people to be bolder than that,” he said.Adalja argued that the goal they’ve set “should be the bare minimum that we accept.” But he also acknowledged that there’s a major political risk in overpromising.“You don’t want people to be discouraged or feel like the government is incompetent” if they fail to meet a goal, he said.“It’s a disappointingly low bar,” said Dr. Leana Wen, a public health expert and emergency physician.Biden on Friday acknowledged the criticism, saying he was hopeful for more vaccinations, but he avoided putting down a marker that could potentially fall out of reach.“I found it fascinating that yesterday the press asked the question, ‘Is 100 million enough?'" he said in the State Dining Room. "A week before, they were saying, ‘Biden, are you crazy? You can’t do 100 million in 100 days.’ Well, we’re — God willing — not only going to 100 million. We’re going to do more than that.”In fact, while there was some skepticism when Biden first announced the goal on Dec. 8, it was generally seen as optimistic but within reach.The Biden administration might be taking lessons from the earliest days of the Obama administration, when there was constant pressure to show real progress in turning around the economy during the financial crisis.One former Obama administration official, who spoke on condition of anonymity to speak freely about internal conversations, said there was a fevered effort during the first few months of Obama's first term to play down the focus on evaluating the president’s success within his first 100 days because aides knew the financial recovery would take far longer than that.In one notable misstep, Obama’s National Economic Council chair, Christina Romer, predicted that unemployment wouldn’t top 8% if Congress passed the administration’s stimulus package to address the financial crisis. It was signed into law a month into Obama's first term, but by the end of that year, unemployment nevertheless hit 10%.The risk in setting too rosy expectations is that an administration might become defined by its failure to meet them. President George W. Bush’s “Mission Accomplished” speech in 2003 — at a time when the Iraq War was far from over — became a defining blunder of his presidency.Trump provided an overreach of his own in May 2020, when he said the nation had “prevailed” over the virus. At the time, the country had seen about 80,000 deaths from the virus. This week, the U.S. death toll topped 412,000.Trump’s lax approach and lack of credibility contributed to poor adherence to public safety rules among the American public.Former Health and Human Services Secretary Kathleen Sebelius said Trump’s handling of the virus caused so much damage to public perceptions of its severity that it’s important for Biden to set a contrasting tone.“I think it is really important to start telling the American people the truth. And that has not happened in a year, since we found the first case of coronavirus, so he’s got a lot of damage to undo,” she said.“This is a very serious, very contagious, deadly disease, and anything other than that message — delivered over and over again — is, unfortunately, adding to the willingness of lots of people to pay no attention to how to stop the spread of the disease.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/bidens-early-approach-to-virus-underpromise-overdeliver-101611370991863.html
23-01-2021||World||Biden speaks to leaders of Mexico and Canada on trade, migration||President Joe Biden spoke with the leaders of Canada and Mexico on Friday, his first calls with foreign counterparts since his inauguration this week.In a nod to continental cooperation, Biden’s first conversation was with Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau and then Mexican President Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador. Biden and Trudeau, according to the Canadian government’s account of their phone call, agreed to meet next month.In a Twitter post and in a statement on Friday night, Lopez Obrador, who is known as AMLO, described his conversation with Biden as cordial, and said they discussed migration and Covid-19.Trudeau and Biden, the Canadian government said, talked chiefly about issues where they see the possibility of mutual cooperation, including climate change, the response to the coronavirus pandemic, the broader trading relationship of their countries and rising tensions with China.They also discussed the detention of two Canadian citizens in China.But Trudeau also raised his disappointment over Biden’s decision to rescind a permit for the Keystone XL pipeline, a major Canadian project that would’ve brought more than 800,000 barrels of oil from the western province of Alberta to Nebraska and onward to U.S. refineries on the Gulf Coast.The White House had no immediate comment on the calls.Both Trudeau and Lopez Obrador have had clashes with Donald Trump, who sought a rewrite of North American free trade rules, slapped tariffs on each country and threatened to impose more. The countries ultimately reached a deal on the U.S.-Mexico-Canada Agreement, or USMCA, a relatively modest rewrite of its predecessor, known as Nafta.Biden has sought to largely reverse Trump’s foreign policy, including by rejoining the Paris agreement on climate change and reversing an exit from the World Health Organization. He has also halted some of Trump’s immigration overhauls and construction of the wall on the Mexican border, and proposed a comprehensive rewrite of immigration policy, though there’s little early appetite in Congress to adopt it.The fate of the Keystone pipeline, however, has complicated the Ottawa-Washington relationship for Trudeau. While Biden has already begun fulfilling a campaign promise to strengthen environmental regulations in the US, the prime minister is now facing pressure domestically to stand up to Canada’s largest trading partner.Biden has also pledged to maintain and even expand so-called “Buy American” measures that have historically triggered trade disputes with Canada and Mexico. Speaking Friday at the White House about changes to federal contracting rules, Biden said he was “going to make sure that they buy American and are made in America.”Biden and Trudeau discussed the “Buy American” plan and the US president promised to work with Canada on the issue, according to a Canadian official.The White House has also hinted that it’s considering seeking changes to the Trans Pacific Partnership, an 11-nation Asia-Pacific trade deal meant as a counterweight to China’s economic clout. Trump pulled the US out of the accord, but it survived and Canada and Mexico remain in it.Biden believes the TPP “wasn’t perfect and believes we need to make it stronger and better,” White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki said Friday, though she added that Biden won’t be focused on that in the “coming months.” If the US seeks changes to the deal in order to join, that could send the countries back to the bargaining table after the raucous USMCA talks with Trump.Mexico is the top trade partner with the US, while Canada is the third-largest, and the largest buyer of US exports.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biden-speaks-to-leaders-of-mexico-and-canada-on-trade-migration-101611369489635.html
23-01-2021||World||Texas files first major lawsuit against Biden administration||Texas sued the US government for ordering a temporary halt to most deportations of undocumented immigrants, the first major lawsuit challenging President Joe Biden’s policies just two days into his term and a likely sign of what’s to come from other Republican-led states.Texas Attorney General Ken Paxton claims the directive breaches a deal reached between the state and the Department of Homeland Security less than two weeks before the end of the Trump administration, under which DHS agreed to consult with Texas before making any changes to deportation regulations. The changes amounts to “blanket amnesty,” Paxton claims.US District Judge Drew Tipton in Victoria, Texas, heard arguments Friday on the state’s request for a temporary restraining order against the plan while the case proceeds. Tipton, a Donald Trump appointee, said he’d issue a decision later.Paxton, a staunch Trump ally, blasted the federal government’s plan, saying it would harm Texas by preventing the state from deporting undocumented immigrants.“On its first day in office, the Biden Administration cast aside congressionally enacted immigration laws and suspended the removal of illegal aliens whose removal is compelled by those very laws,” Paxton said in the complaint. “In doing so, it ignored basic constitutional principles and violated its written pledge to work cooperatively with the State of Texas to address shared immigration enforcement concerns.”Partisan ClashThe suit highlights the clash between Biden’s pledge to reverse Trump’s efforts to clamp down on people in the US illegally and Republicans who want to continue those policies. Biden plans to eventually offer a path to citizenship to the almost 11 million undocumented immigrants in the US, which will likely trigger additional litigation.“Texas is asking to run federal immigration law,” Adam Kirschner, a Justice Department lawyer, told the judge. The lawyer added that Texas is effectively arguing the Biden administration can’t do what it wants “because the last administration -- 12 days before it left office -- gave us the veto.”The lawsuit is the latest sign of the ongoing polarization of state attorneys general, said Douglas Gansler, a Democrat who was attorney general of Maryland from 2007 to 2015 and elected president of the National Association of Attorneys General in 2012.“The Republican attorneys general brought many cases against the Obama Administration, often around the Affordable Care Act, and then the Democratic attorneys general brought many cases against the Trump Administration -- this is unfortunately likely to be the first salvo of cases against the Biden Administration,” said Gansler, now a litigator at Cadwalader, Wickersham & Taft LLP in Washington.Paxton, who is under federal investigation for bribery and abuse of power allegations made by former aides, led a failed legal challenge by Republican attorneys general that sought to prevent Biden from taking office based on bogus allegations of election fraud. In his new lawsuit, the Texas official claims the current administration is failing to remove immigrants even after they’ve had “full and fair” hearings.“The Constitution, controlling statutes, and prior Executive pledges prevent a seismic change to this country’s immigration laws merely by memorandum,” Paxton said in the suit.The Department of Homeland Security’s press office declined to comment and referred questions to the White House. The White House didn’t immediately return messages seeking comment.The case is State of Texas v. US, 6:21-cv-00003, U.S. District Court, Southern District of Texas (Victoria).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/texas-files-first-major-lawsuit-against-biden-administration-101611366277385.html
23-01-2021||World||US Prez Joe Biden respects successful ties with India: White House||The leadership of India and the US have reaffirmed their commitment to continue and strengthen the bilateral partnership, with a White House spokesperson saying President Joe Biden “respects and values” the “long, bipartisan, successful” ties between leaders of the two sides.Biden and Prime Minister Narendra Modi have spoken once since the American leader’s election last November, and could again soon as the president begins calling counterparts in allied and partner countries. Biden will start making these calls on Friday, with Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau being the first.Biden, who has visited India many times, “respects and values the long, bipartisan, successful relationship between leaders in India and the US” and “looks forward to a continuation of that”, White House spokesperson Jen Psaki said at the daily news briefing on Thursday.As proof of Biden’s support for the ties, Psaki brought up vice president Kamala Harris: “Obviously, he selected...the first Indian American to serve as president or vice president, certainly a historic moment for all of us in this country, but further, you know, cementing of the importance of our relationship.”Harris’s mother, Shyamala Gopalan Harris, came to the US from Chennai, and her father, Donald Harris, from Jamaica.In New Delhi, external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said the Indian side will continue to engage the US administration to build on ties and tackle global challenges.Policymakers and experts in the US and India are eager to know its approach to India. Republican senator Mitt Romney asked Antony Blinken, the nominee for secretary of state, about it at a confirmation hearing by the Senate foreign relations committee on Tuesday.Blinken said given all that was done by previous administration, “one area I think that has a lot of promise, and maybe even necessity, is actually climate”. He added, “At the current rate, India is poised... to catch up to China in terms of the emissions.”India using pharma to help others: US bureauThe Joe Biden-led US government has applauded India for sending supplies of Covid-19 vaccine to a host of South Asian nations. “India’s a true friend using its pharma to help the global community,” the US State Department’s account for the Bureau of South and Central Asian Affairs tweeted on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-prez-joe-biden-respects-successful-ties-with-india-white-house-101611365409953.html
23-01-2021||World||Pride and caution in Wuhan on lockdown anniversary||Exactly one year after it thrust the word "lockdown" into the global conversation, Wuhan passes the anniversary on Saturday with a mix of pride at recovering from the coronavirus and caution over a possible relapse.A year ago Saturday, Wuhan shocked the world by ordering 11 million anxious citizens be confined at home, beginning a traumatic 76-day lockdown that underscored the growing threat of a then-mysterious pathogen emanating from the city.One by one, adjacent metropolises in hard-hit Hubei province quickly followed suit, as did cities and entire countries worldwide as Covid-19 went global.But while the world's pandemic struggles continue, Wuhan today is nothing like that locked-down ghost town of a year ago, with traffic humming, sidewalks bustling, and citizens packing public transport and parks.Yet anxiety lurks below the surface as localised clusters multiply across China, reviving memories of the city's ordeal.They remain vivid for Huang Genben, 76, who spent 67 days in hospital fighting Covid-19 last year, spitting up blood and expecting to die."When I closed my eyes at night I didn't know if I would open them again," Huang told AFP.Like many Chinese, he expresses pride at the "great efforts" made by the Beijing government and citizens to contain the pandemic, exemplified by hard-hit Wuhan.The virus has killed at least two million people globally and continues to spread, but in China less than 5,000 deaths have been reported by authorities, the vast majority coming in Wuhan at the pandemic's outset.And the city's relaxed scenes -- elderly dancers spinning in parks and crowded bars selling "Wuhan Stay Strong" craft beer -- contrast with the rolling lockdowns, surging death rates and overwhelmed hospitals overseas.'I feel pain'"We can tell from the results that the policy of the government was correct, the cooperation of (Wuhan) citizens was correct. I feel pain seeing the epidemic all over the world," Huang said.The government has pushed an official propaganda narrative -- starring Wuhan -- focusing on a "heroic" Chinese response and recovery.But there are no known lockdown commemorations planned Saturday by Beijing, which remains tight-lipped on the pandemic's early days amid accusations it covered it up or mishandled the outbreak, allowing it to spread.The virus is generally believed to have spread outward from a Wuhan wet market where exotic animals were sold as food.But China has otherwise released little information on its origins, fuelling calls in the west for more transparency.The lockdown anniversary comes with World Health Organization experts just days from completing a two-week quarantine in Wuhan before launching a planned investigation into the coronavirus's origins.The WHO said Friday it was too early to draw any conclusions as to whether the pandemic started in China."All hypotheses are on the table," said WHO emergencies director Michael Ryan.While other nations, notably the United States, have dithered on their coronavirus response, Wuhan shut down completely, plunging its economy into recession.State media reports -- and activity on the streets -- attest to an impressive recovery, but some say it remains incomplete and many residents voice wariness of a viral resurgence.Xu Jiajun, a 58-year-old street vendor of local foods, drinks, and other items, said times remain tough."The situation is not good. I don't have a stable income like I did before. Things have changed," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pride-and-caution-in-wuhan-on-lockdown-anniversary-101611362069308.html
23-01-2021||World||Nuclear powers stay out of first nuke ban treaty||Agencies﻿The first ever treaty to ban nuclear weapons came into force on Friday without the support of the nine countries known or believed to possess nuclear weapons - the US, the UK, Russia, China, France, India, Pakistan, North Korea and Israel.The 30-nation Nato alliance is also not backing the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons (TPNW), which is now part of international law and seen as a historic step to rid the world of its deadliest weapons.Its entry into force culminates a decades-long campaign aimed at preventing a repetition of the US atomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki at the end of World War II. But getting all nations to ratify the treaty requiring them to never own such weapons seems daunting, if not impossible, in the current global climate. When the treaty was approved by the UN General Assembly in July 2017, more than 120 nations approved it.The following summer, India and some other countries explained their decision. India said the TPNW mechanism may not include scope for verification, and that it believed a single multilateral form already exists to discuss disarmament.Japan, the world’s only country to suffer nuclear attacks, also does not support the treaty, even though the aged survivors of the bombings in 1945 strongly push for it to do so.Japan on its own renounces use and possession of nuclear weapons, but the government has said pursuing a treaty ban is not realistic with nuclear and non-nuclear states so sharply divided over it.Nonetheless, Beatrice Fihn, executive director of the International Campaign to Abolish Nuclear Weapons, the 2017 Nobel Peace Prize-winning coalition whose work helped spearhead the treaty, called it “a really big day for international law, for the United Nations and for survivors of Hiroshima and Nagasaki”. The treaty received its 50th ratification on October 24 last year, triggering a 90-day period before its entry into force.Fihn told AP that 61 countries ratified the treaty, and “from Friday, nuclear weapons will be banned by international law” in all those countries. The treaty requires ratifying countries to “never under any circumstances... develop, test, produce, manufacture, otherwise acquire, possess or stockpile nuclear weapons or other nuclear explosive devices”. The pact also bans any transfer or use of nuclear weapons or nuclear explosive devices.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/nuclear-powers-stay-out-of-first-nuke-ban-treaty-101611362107166.html
23-01-2021||World||House to trigger Donald Trump trial process on Monday||The US House of Representatives will deliver to the Senate on Monday the article of impeachment against former president Donald Trump, triggering his trial for “incitement of insurrection”.The trial will take place as the Senate is in the conformation process for President Joe Biden’s cabinet members.On Friday, it confirmed Lloyd Austin as secretary of defence in a 93-2 bipartisan vote, making him the first African-American to head the Pentagon. Avril Haines, the director of national intelligence was first to be confirmed and Antony Blinken, nominee for secretary of state, will be cleared next week.Senate majority leader Chuck Schumer, a Democrat, announced on the floor of the Senate that the House of Representatives will transmit the article of impeachment to the Senate on Monday. Under the rules, the trial process must start the day after the formal delivery of the article of impeachment.“There will be a trial. It will be a full trial; it will be a fair trial,” Schumer said.Trump is the first US president to be impeached twice, and the first to be tried after leaving office. He was impeached by the House for inciting supporters to storm the US Capitol to prevent a joint session of Congress from certifying Biden’s election win.Republicans had sought to delay the start of the trial to give Trump time to prepare. Mitch McConnell, the top Republican who is now the Senate minority leader, had proposed a timeline that started next week and gave Trump two weeks to put together his defence after that.A two-third super-majority is needed for the 100-member Senate to convict a president. The current chamber is evenly split 50-50. All 50 Democrats are expected to vote to convict Trump, but 17 Republicans will have to vote with the Democrats for a conviction to go through.McConnell and some Republicans have indicated they were open to listening to arguments in favour of convicting Trump, a fellow Republican they had voted to acquit the last time.A conviction would have led to Trump’s removal from office if he was still president. Now, if it happens, it will prevent him from holding any federal office, ruling out another run for the White House, which he and his aides had indicated he might do in 2024.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/house-to-trigger-donald-trump-trial-process-on-monday-101611361947064.html
23-01-2021||World||Covid-19 new variant causes higher mortality, says UK PM Boris Johnson||British Prime Minister Boris Johnson said on Friday that there was evidence a new variant of Covid-19 discovered late last year could be associated with higher mortality.“We’ve been informed today that in addition to spreading more quickly, it also now appears that there is some evidence that the new variant - the variant that was first discovered in London and the southeast (of England) - may be associated with a higher degree of mortality,” he told a news briefing.Johnson added that all the current evidence showed both vaccines remain effective against old and new variants.Beijing, meanwhile, has begun testing over 2mn residents in two districts, while Shanghai started checking hospital staff as China continued to battle the worst outbreak since last March. The Beijing district tests could be a run-up to the testing of the remaining 20mn in the capital as Chinese New Year holidays approach.China also reported its first cluster of Covid-19 cases among workers at a meat processing plant in Harbin in northeast.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid19-new-variant-causes-higher-mortality-says-uk-pm-boris-johnson-101611361775550.html
23-01-2021||World||'I want to feel safe again': Americans lament slow pace of US Covid-19 vaccine rollout||Jerry Shapiro, a 78-year-old pharmacist from Los Angeles, is at the top of the list of Californians now eligible for the Covid-19 vaccine, but more than a month after the state began inoculations, he has yet to receive one.Shapiro said he has spent hours calling multiple health agencies and making fruitless computer searches, an experience familiar to many people across the United States, as the days-old administration of President Joe Biden races to bring the country's slow, chaotic vaccine rollout up to speed."Why not make it easy?" asked Shapiro, who is also concerned about his wife because of medical conditions that would make her particularly vulnerable to the virus. "Have it in your neighborhood. Set up an appointment, get your shot and be done."The United States is the nation hardest-hit by Covid-19, with 24.51 million cases and 409,987 deaths by early Friday morning. More than 4,000 Americans died of the disease on Thursday for the second day in a row.Even so, vaccine rollout, which the administration of former President Donald Trump left to the states to carry out without a federal blueprint or sufficient funding, has proven to be choppy.From California, where distribution has varied from county to county, to New York where the largest city in the nation is running low on supply, states and healthcare providers have struggled to acquire, store and distribute vaccines."We’re burning through our supply," New York Mayor Bill de Blasio posted on Twitter on Friday. "We need more doses IMMEDIATELY so we can protect the most vulnerable residents in our city. We need more doses so we can fight back."New York Governor Andrew Cuomo said just 67% of healthcare workers in New York have received a vaccine dose and he warned that if the federal government does not find a way to quickly ramp up production, everyone would suffer."The hospital workers are the people who, if they get sick, the hospital capacity will collapse,” Cuomo said at a news conference. “If the hospital capacity collapses, we have to close the economy.”In New Jersey, Governor Phil Murphy said the state's vaccination program had managed to get 70% of its vaccine supply into people's arms, but that a federal program within the state to help nursing home residents had distributed only 10% of its supply.The country's top infectious disease expert, Dr. Anthony Fauci, said on Friday the federal government had put too much of the responsibility for distributing the vaccine on state governments."States were doing things that clearly were not the right direction - and that's unfortunate," Fauci said on CNN.Instead, he said, the administration should collaborate with the states to help them plan their rollouts and make sure that vaccines got into people's arms.Distribution challengesFewer than half of the nearly 38 million vaccine doses shipped to date by the federal government have actually made it into the arms of Americans, the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) reported on Thursday.Some individual states have lagged behind with just a third or 40% of their vaccine allotments being administered as of Thursday, which marked the one-year anniversary of the first locally transmitted Covid-19 case documented in the United States.A key problem is organizing the distribution of vaccines to smaller clinics and pharmacies - rather than just to large medical centers and retail pharmaceutical chains.In California, only a handful of independent pharmacies have been able to acquire vaccines for their customers - generally only in rural areas where the big chain stores are not present, said Sonya Frausto, a pharmacist in the state capital of Sacramento.Shapiro, who owns an independent pharmacy in downtown Los Angeles, said customers have been calling daily seeking vaccines, but he has to tell them he has no supply.He and his wife finally made appointments to receive a vaccine on Saturday, after repeated phone calls and hours on hold led them to healthcare giant Kaiser Permanente. The Shapiros are not Kaiser members, but the nonprofit is offering them shots nonetheless, Jerry Shapiro said.In Sacramento, 65-year-old restaurateur Jami Goldstene would feel a lot safer at her public-facing job if she could get a vaccine. She is technically eligible because of her age, but has yet to be offered an appointment - or even find a way to make one - despite hours on the phone and the internet."It's very frustrating," she said. "I want to be over with it. I want to feel safe again."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/i-want-to-feel-safe-again-americans-lament-slow-pace-of-us-covid-19-vaccine-rollout-101611361522717.html
23-01-2021||World||Trump impeachment trial to begin in Senate week of Feb 8: Chuck Schumer||Former President Donald Trump's impeachment trial will begin during the week of Feb. 8, Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer said on Friday, after the House of Representatives formally delivers the impeachment charge to the chamber on Monday.Schumer emphasized the need to move quickly on confirmation of President Joe Biden's Cabinet and other key administration officials. Schumer said House impeachment managers - serving as prosecutors in the Senate trial - and Trump's defense team would have time to prepare between the time the single article of impeachment accusing Trump of inciting an insurrection is delivered on Monday and the start of the trial."During that period, the Senate will continue to do other business for the American people, such as Cabinet nominations and the Covid relief bill which would provide relief for millions of Americans who are suffering during this pandemic" Schumer said on the Senate floor.Schumer became the chamber's leader this week after Democrats won two Georgia US Senate runoff elections earlier in the month.The timeline was a compromise after Republican Senate leader Mitch McConnell had asked the Democratic-led House to delay sending the charges until next Thursday, and called on Schumer to postpone the trial until mid-February to give Trump more time to prepare a defense.A McConnell aide said the trial could begin as soon as Feb. 9 - a Tuesday - and that McConnell was pleased Democrats had given Trump's defense more time."This is a win for due process and fairness," said Doug Andres, a McConnell spokesman.Trump's charge stems from his incendiary speech to supporters before they stormed the Capitol on Jan. 6."This impeachment began with an unprecedentedly fast and minimal process over in the House," McConnell said on Friday. "The sequel cannot be an insufficient Senate process that denies former President Trump his due process or damages the Senate or the presidency itself."White House spokeswoman Jen Psaki told reporters that the Senate should be able to move forward with both the trial and Biden's agenda, beginning with his call for $1.9 trillion of fresh Covid-19 assistance for Americans and the US economy."What cannot be delayed through this process is his proposal to get relief to the American people at this time of crisis," Psaki told reporters.Senate rules had called for an impeachment trial to begin at 1 p.m. on the day after articles of impeachment are delivered to the upper legislative chamber of Congress, except for Sundays.But Senator Richard Durbin, the No. 2 Senate Democrat, told MSNBC that lawmakers would "sit down and map this out as best we can, use every available minute."The moves come as Schumer and McConnell are struggling to assert control in a chamber divided 50-50 in which Democrats hold a majority thanks to Vice President Kamala Harris' tie-breaking vote."I can't imagine that both McConnell and Schumer don't want to have a little more structure here, and particularly Schumer, leave a little more time to move forward with the early Biden decisions before we get locked into the trial," Republican Senator Roy Blunt told reporters.Filibuster fightMcConnell has insisted that Democrats provide a guarantee that they will not end the legislative filibuster, which gives the minority Republicans the power to block legislation being pushed by the new Biden administration.Schumer rejected McConnell's demand on Friday, calling it an "unacceptable proposal."McConnell refused to concede, saying that maintaining the filibuster's 60-vote threshold for advancing most legislation was a linchpin for the power-sharing agreement cobbled together in 2001, the last time the Senate was split 50-50.Trump last week became the first president in US history to be impeached twice, and when the Senate convenes for his trial will be the first president tried after leaving office.Ten House Republicans joined Democrats on Jan. 13 in impeaching him. The support of at least 17 Senate Republicans would be needed to convict him; a separate vote would then be needed to ban him from running for office again.Such a vote could signal that senior Republicans were eager to remove Trump as the de facto leader of their party. He has said he may seek to run again in 2024.Trump's fate ultimately could depend on McConnell, whose position is likely to influence other Republican lawmakers. The Kentucky Republican said this week that the mob was "fed lies" and "provoked by the president and other powerful people."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-impeachment-trial-to-begin-in-senate-week-of-feb-8-chuck-schumer-101611361210202.html
23-01-2021||World||SpaceX plans to drill for natural gas near Texas launchpad||Elon Musk recently moved to Texas, where he launches some of his rockets and is building a battery factory. Now, for good measure, he plans to drill for natural gas in the state.The billionaire’s SpaceX intends to drill wells close to the company’s Boca Chica launchpad, it was revealed during a Friday hearing before the Railroad Commission of Texas, the state’s energy regulator.Production has yet to start because of a legal dispute between the SpaceX subsidiary Lone Star Mineral Development and another energy company. Tim George, an attorney representing Lone Star, said at the hearing that SpaceX plans to use the methane it extracts from the ground “in connection with their rocket facility operations.”While it’s unclear what exactly the gas would be used for, SpaceX plans to utilize super-chilled liquid methane and liquid oxygen as fuel for its Raptor engines. The company’s Starship and Super Heavy vehicles are tested at Boca Chica, and orbital launches are planned for the site.George declined to answer further questions and hung up when called for comment. SpaceX didn’t immediately respond to a request for comment.Musk said in December he relocated to Texas to focus on SpaceX’s Starship vehicle and Tesla Inc.’s new Gigafactory, which is being built near Austin. On Thursday, the billionaire tweeted that he plans to donate $100 million toward a prize for the best carbon-capture technology. His past comments have suggested that he wants to use the tech to produce synthetic carbon-neutral rocket fuel. Until then, fossil fuels will power SpaceX rockets.Formed in June 2020, Lone Star bought the 806-acre (326-hectare) La Pita oil lease from Houston-based Sanchez Energy, which was later renamed Mesquite Energy Inc. after exiting bankruptcy. Financial terms for the deal weren’t disclosed, but the SpaceX subsidiary’s drilling plans have been called into question amid a dispute with Dallas Petroleum Group, which claims ownership of some inactive wells sitting on the same land.Dallas Petroleum took the dispute to the Railroad Commission in August. Two months later, it sued three companies -- Sanchez Midstream Partners LP, Sanchez Midstream Partners GP LLC and Sanchez Oil & Gas Corp. -- in state court in Brownsville, Texas.That lawsuit prompted SpaceX’s land-acquisition arm Dogleg Park LLC to intervene in November. In a filing to the court, Dogleg said Dallas Petroleum locked SpaceX out of the property and asserted ownership claims for the “sole purpose of extorting money from SpaceX.”Dallas Petroleum Group denies the allegations and maintains it has ownership of both the wells and the 24 surrounding acres.During Friday’s hearing, Dallas Petroleum CEO Matt Williams shared aerial photos that he said showed company equipment near the wells had been disconnected, while drilling and hydraulic-fracturing gear it doesn’t own had been moved onto the property. His company, he added, was also given a trespass warning.“Our signs are all over these tanks and the well head,” he said. “Any operation that went on there, we were very much liable for any problems that could have happened.”The Brownsville court is due to hear the lawsuit on Feb. 9 while Railroad Commission Administrative Law Judge Jennifer Cook is likely to take months to propose a decision that will later be voted on by the agency’s three commissioners in a public hearing. Cook is expected to scrutinize Dallas Petroleum’s claims against property and tax records, which list Sanchez as owner of the disputed land.The area around the SpaceX facility has seen limited oil and gas development. There are almost a nearby dozen wells classified as either abandoned or dry holes, Railroad Commission Records show. Canadian company Enbridge Inc. owns and operates the nearby Valley Crossing Pipeline, which moves 2.6 billion cubic feet of natural gas per day from the Eagle Ford Shale of South Texas to customers in Mexico.The Brownsville may see more energy investment in the years ahead. There are separate plans for three liquefied natural gas export terminals about 5 miles (8 kilometers) west of the launch site. Environmental reports for those projects say they could safely coexist with SpaceX, although some activistsdispute those claims.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/spacex-plans-to-drill-for-natural-gas-near-texas-launchpad-101611361019091.html
23-01-2021||World||More than 150 National Guard in Washington for inauguration test positive for coronavirus||Between 150 and 200 National Guard deployed to Washington, DC, to provide security for President Joe Biden's inauguration have tested positive for the coronavirus, a US official said on Friday.The US government imposed unprecedented security measures in the city following the deadly Jan. 6 attack on the Capitol by supporters of former President Donald Trump, including fences topped with razor wire and checkpoints manned by National Guard.The official, speaking on the condition of anonymity, said the number of National Guard troops who tested positive could rise but was still a small fraction of the more than 25,000 troops deployed in city over the past few days.The United States reported more than 4,000 daily deaths from Covid-19 for a second consecutive day on Thursday, according to a Reuters analysis of public health data, bringing the cumulative number of US lives lost to almost 410,000.The National Guard said in a statement that it would not discuss coronavirus cases, but personnel were following Centers for Disease Control and Prevention guidelines, including temperature checks when they left their home state and arrived in the city, along with a screening questionnaire.The military has said arrangements are being made for thousands of troops to return home, and that about 15,000 are expected to leave Washington within the next five to 10 days.Some 7,000 National Guard personnel are expected to stay at least through the end of the month, officials have said.About 5,000 troops are expected to stay through mid-March, but that number and time period could change.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/more-than-150-national-guard-in-washington-for-inauguration-test-positive-for-coronavirus-101611360561422.html
23-01-2021||World||Lawmakers express anger as US troops guarding Capitol forced to sleep in garage, First Lady rushes to do damage control||A decision to turn a chilly underground parking garage into an overnight billet for National Guard troops in Washington to protect President Joe Biden's inauguration has stirred an uproar.A number of the 25,000 troops standing guard around the US Capitol in recent days in the wake of the January 6 insurrection had been allowed to take breaks and naps in between long shifts on the floors of the building housing the US Congress.But on Thursday afternoon, after the legislature resumed work a day after the Biden inauguration, someone decided instead to force them out to a nearby parking garage.Photos that spread quickly over the internet showed troops stretched out under fluorescent lights in parking slots, with few toilets, outlets for charging phones or other facilities.Some members of Congress, noting that many of the troops came from their home states, voiced outrage."This is an insult to all National Guard units that followed orders and served in the cold and rain through the night without fail. They protected our Capitol when we needed them most," said Representative Brendan Boyle on Twitter.Lawmakers visited the troops and apologized early Friday."What happened was an outrage and it will never happen again," said Chuck Schumer, the new Senate Majority leader, as he walked in a hall in the Capitol with dozens of soldiers sleeping on both sides.Schumer said nobody knew exactly who ordered the part-time soldiers moved to the garage.In the afternoon, first lady Jill Biden also paid a surprise visit to a group of military personnel on duty in Congress, offering them chocolate chip cookies and posing for photos."The National Guard will always hold a special place in the hearts of all the Bidens," she said. President Joe Biden's late son, Beau, was a member of the Delaware National Guard.Echoing the recriminations over responsibility for letting hundreds of violent supporters of then-president Donald Trump crash the Capitol on January 6, National Guard officials said Capitol Police told them to move to the garage, and the Capitol Police denied it.They "did not instruct the National Guard to vacate Capitol building facilities," said Acting Capitol Police Chief Yogananda Pittman in a statement."As of this morning, all Guardsmen and women have been relocated to space within the Capitol complex."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/lawmakers-angered-as-us-troops-guarding-capitol-forced-to-sleep-in-garage-101611359467665.html
23-01-2021||World||Biden warns Covid-19 toll can cross 600,000, urges Congress to pass rescue plan||President Joe Biden warned on Friday that the number of coronavirus deaths in the United States was expected to surpass 600,000 and urged Congress to move fast on his $1.9 trillion plan to battle Covid-19 and provide economic relief to struggling Americans.While Biden called for urgent passage of his "American Rescue Plan," his efforts to get Congress to cooperate on his fast-paced agenda could be complicated by Donald Trump's looming impeachment trial in the Senate.Top Democratic lawmakers said Friday that they planned to send the article of impeachment passed by the House of Representatives to the Senate on Monday, triggering Trump's trial in the body."The virus is surging," Biden told reporters at the White House before signing executive orders boosting food aid and speeding up stimulus payments to Americans."We're at 400,000 dead, expected to reach well over 600,000. Families are going hungry. People are at risk of being evicted. Job losses are mounting again. We need to act now... We need to move fast."Biden added that he was looking forward to working with both parties in Congress to "move quickly" on getting people help through his rescue plan."The bottom line is this: We're in a national emergency. We've got to act like we're in a national emergency," he said.Biden is having to push Congress for funding while simultaneously getting his government confirmed -- Pentagon chief Lloyd Austin won Senate approval Friday -- and bracing for turmoil from the impeachment trial.Trump was impeached by the House on January 13 for inciting supporters to storm Congress a week earlier."A trial will be held in the United States Senate and there will be a vote whether to convict the president," Democratic Senate leader Chuck Schumer said.Barrage of executive ordersAlthough Biden's latest executive orders on food aid and stimulus payments were modest in scale, they reinforced the message that Washington needs to step in decisively against the pandemic and related economic fallout.Biden's $1.9 trillion American Rescue Plan provides more than $400 billion to tackle the pandemic along with additional funding for small businesses and direct relief payments to Americans.But Congress, having already passed two huge economic relief bills, is reluctant. The president's Democratic Party has only a small majority in the House and a razor-thin advantage in the Senate.Biden is also relying on the Senate to hurry up and approve his cabinet nominations.Brian Deese, director of the White House's National Economic Council, said Republicans and Democrats in Congress must find ways to manage the clashing issues."We are facing right now a period of multiple crises and what we need right now is to be able to act on multiple fronts," he said.The new administration has brought a calmer style after the stormy Trump era, but Biden's cascade of executive orders since the moment he entered the White House on Wednesday is making plenty of noise of its own.On Inauguration Day, the 78-year-old Democrat signed 17 actions. He signed 10 on Thursday and another two on Friday.The slew of orders has covered top campaign agenda items, including the political hot potato of immigration reform.Biden extended protections from deportation for so-called "Dreamers" -- children of illegal immigrants who have grown up in the country.But the offensive is overwhelmingly targeted against what Biden described on Friday as a "once in a century public health crisis" and the worst "job and economic crisis in modern history.""And the crisis is only deepening," he said. "It's not getting better. It's deepening."'Walk and chew gum'On the appointments front, a first key security figure was confirmed on Wednesday, Director of National Intelligence Avril Haines. The Senate's confirmation of Austin on Friday makes him the first African American to lead the Pentagon.Tony Blinken for secretary of state and Janet Yellen for treasury secretary appeared to be headed for confirmation either Friday or next week.That already clogged schedule in the legislature will now have to cope with the impeachment drama.White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki told reporters that Biden, who was a senator for decades, remains confident."The Senate, members of both parties, can walk and chew gum at the same time and can move forward with the business of the American people," she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biden-warns-covid-19-toll-can-cross-600-000-urges-congress-to-pass-rescue-plan-101611358748224.html
23-01-2021||World||First Lady Jill Biden thanks National Guard members with chocolate chip cookies||New first lady Jill Biden took an unannounced detour to the U.S. Capitol on Friday to deliver a basket of chocolate chip cookies to National Guard members, thanking them “for keeping me and my family safe” during President Joe Biden's inauguration.“I just want to say thank you from President Biden and the whole, the entire Biden family,” she told a group of Guard members at the Capitol. “The White House baked you some chocolate chip cookies," she said, before joking that she couldn't say she had baked them herself.Joe Biden was sworn into office on Wednesday, exactly two weeks after Donald Trump supporters rioted at the Capitol in a futile attempt to keep Congress from certifying Biden as the winner of November's presidential election. Extensive security measures were then taken for the inauguration, which went off without any major incidents.Jill Biden told the group that her late son, Beau, was a Delaware Army National Guard member who spent a year deployed in Iraq in 2008-09. Beau Biden died of brain cancer in 2015 at the age of 46.“So I'm a National Guard mom,” she said, adding that the basket was a “small thank you” for leaving their home states and coming to the nation's capital. President Biden offered his thanks to the chief of the National Guard Bureau in a phone call Friday.“I truly appreciate all that you do,” the first lady said. “The National Guard will always hold a special place in the heart of all the Bidens.”Jill Biden's unannounced troop visit came after her first public outing as first lady.She highlighted services for cancer patients at Whitman-Walker Health, a Washington institution with a history of serving HIV/AIDS patients and the LGBTQ community. The clinic receives federal money to help provide primary care services in underserved areas.Staff told the first lady that cancer screenings had fallen since last March because patients didn't want to come in because of the coronavirus pandemic. More and more patients are taking advantage of options to see a doctor online.When the issue of universal access to broadband internet was raised, Jill Biden, who is a teacher, said she hears from teachers around the country who can't get in touch with their students because of the spotty access in some areas.“We just have to work together and address some of these things," she said. “The first thing we have to do is address this pandemic and get everybody vaccinated and back to work and back to their schools and get things back to the new normal.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/first-lady-jill-biden-thanks-national-guard-members-with-chocolate-chip-cookies-101611356546899.html
23-01-2021||World||Donald Trump impeachment headed to Senate, triggering trial||House Speaker Nancy Pelosi will send the article of impeachment against Donald Trump to the Senate on Monday, triggering the start of the former president's trial on a charge of “incitement of insurrection” in the deadly Jan. 6 riot at the Capitol.Senate Democratic leader Chuck Schumer announced Pelosi's intentions Friday for the quick trial, rebuffing Republicans' proposal to push the proceedings to mid-February to give Trump more time to prepare his case. Schumer said there will be “a full trial," and "it will be a fair trial."Unlike any in history, Trump's impeachment trial would be the first of a U.S. president no longer in office, an undertaking that his Senate Republican allies argue is pointless, and potentially even unconstitutional. Democrats say they have to hold Trump to account, even as they pursue new President Joe Biden's legislative priorities, because of the gravity of what took place — a violent attack on the U.S. Congress aimed at overturning an election.The trial could start as soon as Tuesday, but timing remains uncertain as leaders negotiate. If Trump is convicted, the Senate could vote to bar him from holding office ever again, potentially upending his chances for a political comeback.The urgency to hold Trump responsible is somewhat complicated by Democrats' simultaneous need to get Biden's government in place and start quick work on his coronavirus aid package. The trial could halt Senate work on those priorities.“The more time we have to get up and running ... the better,” Biden said Friday in brief comments to reporters.A trial delay could appeal to some Democrats, as it would give the Senate more time to confirm the Cabinet and debate the new round of coronavirus relief.The timing and details of the Senate trial eventually rest on negotiations between Schumer and Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell, who are also in talks over a power-sharing agreement for the Senate, which is split 50-50 but in Democratic control because Vice President Kamala Harris serves as a tie-breaking vote.Whenever the start, Pelosi said Friday the nine House impeachment managers, or prosecutors, are "ready to begin to make their case” against Trump. Trump’s team will have had the same amount of time since the House impeachment vote to prepare, Pelosi said.Democrats say they can move quickly through the trial, potentially with no witnesses, because lawmakers experienced the insurrection first-hand.One of the managers, California Rep. Ted Lieu, said Friday that Democrats would rather be working on policy right now, but “we can't just ignore" what happened on Jan. 6.“This was an attack on our Capitol by a violent mob,” Lieu said in an interview with The Associated Press. “It was an attack on our nation instigated by our commander in chief. We have to address that and make sure it never happens again.”Trump, who told his supporters to “fight like hell” just before they invaded the Capitol two weeks ago and interrupted the electoral vote count, is still assembling his legal team.White House press secretary Jen Psaki on Friday deferred to Congress on timing for the trial and would not say whether Biden thinks Trump should be convicted. But she said lawmakers can simultaneously discuss and have hearings on Biden's coronavirus relief package.“We don’t think it can be delayed or it can wait, so they’re going to have to find a path forward,” Psaki said of the virus aid. “He’s confident they can do that.”Democrats would need the support of at least 17 Republicans to convict Trump, a high bar. While most Republican senators condemned Trump's actions that day, far fewer appear to be ready to convict.A handful of Senate Republicans have indicated they are open — but not committed — to conviction. But most have come to Trump's defense as it relates to impeachment, saying they believe a trial will be divisive and questioning the legality of trying a president after he has left office.South Carolina Sen. Lindsey Graham, a close Trump ally who has been helping him find lawyers, said Friday there is “a very compelling constitutional case” on whether Trump can be impeached after his term — an assertion that Democrats reject, saying there is ample legal precedent. Graham also suggested that Republicans will argue Trump's words on Jan. 6 were not legally “incitement.”“On the facts, they’ll be able to mount a defense, so the main thing is to give him a chance to prepare and run the trial orderly, and hopefully the Senate will reject the idea of pursuing presidents after they leave office,” Graham said.Other Republicans had stronger words, suggesting there should be no trial at all. Wyoming Sen. John Barrasso said Pelosi is sending a message to Biden that “my hatred and vitriol of Donald Trump is so strong that I will stop even you and your Cabinet from getting anything done.” Wisconsin Sen. Ron Johnson suggested Democrats are choosing “vindictiveness” over national security as Biden attempts to set up his government.McConnell, who said this week that Trump “provoked” his supporters before the riot, has not said how he will vote. He said Senate Republicans "strongly believe we need a full and fair process where the former president can mount a defense and the Senate can properly consider the factual, legal and constitutional questions.”Trump, the first president to be impeached twice, is at a disadvantage compared with his first impeachment trial, in which he had the full resources of the White House counsel’s office to defend him. Graham helped Trump hire South Carolina attorney Butch Bowers after members of his past legal teams indicated they did not plan to join the new effort.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-impeachment-headed-to-senate-triggering-trial-101611356325817.html
23-01-2021||World||Spain discarding thousands of Pfizer vaccine doses for lack of right syringes||Spain does not have enough right syringes and needles to extract the sixth dose from a Pfizer anti-coronavirus vaccine vial, resulting in thousands of doses going to waste, doctors have complained.The EU medicines regulator said in a guidance update on January 8 that low dead-volume syringes and needles with more effective space than standards ones must be used to get full six doses. It warned that pooling contents from two vials to make up a full 0.3 ml dose was not permitted.Insufficient supplies of low dead-space equipment have been reported in the capital of Madrid, the southern Andalusia region and Catalonia. The Catalan health officials say a six dose is on average extracted from only two out of three vials.Concerns are that the ambiguous six doses will soon be factored in delivery numbers."The Pfizer company will begin a review process on January 25 after which EU member states will continue receiving the same number of doses but in fewer vials," the Spanish health ministry said.Spain expects to import 4.5 million Pfizer doses in the first quarter of this year. Some 1.3 million Pfizer doses and 35,000 Moderna doses have been delivered to the country of 47 million. Both vaccines require two doses for maximum effectiveness. A total of 1.1 million have received a shot. (ANI/Sputnik)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/spain-discarding-thousands-of-pfizer-vaccine-doses-for-lack-of-right-syringes-101611338557968.html
