01-03-2021||Business||Sensex soars 750 points as investors cheer Q3 GDP data||The benchmark BSE Sensex surged nearly 750 points and NSE Nifty rallied over 232 points on Monday as investors cheered the domestic economy returning to positive territory after two quarters of contraction. The 30-share BSE index briefly traded above the 50,000-mark during the mid-session, before ending at 49,849.84, showing a rise of 749.85 points or 1.53 per cent. Likewise, the NSE barometer Nifty settled with a gain of 232.40 points or 1.60 per cent at 14,761.55. Of the Sensex constituents, 29 closed with gains. Top performers were PowerGrid, ONGC, Ultratech Cement, Asian Paint, Kotak Bank and Titan rising as much as 5.94 per cent. After two consecutive quarters of contraction, the Indian economy has finally entered an expansionary path. The Gross Domestic Product (GDP) grew 0.4 per cent in the October-December 2020 period compared with the same period a year back, data released by the National Statistics Office on Friday showed. Analysts said, the high-frequency indicators were pointing towards the fact that the domestic economy is slowly entering the recovery path. On Friday,the BSE Sensex had crashed 1,939.32 points or 3.80 per cent its worst one-day fall since May 4 last year. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty had plunged 568.20 points or 3.76 per cent its biggest single-day drop since March 23 last year. Foreign investors had sold equities worth Rs 8,295.17 crore on a net basis on Friday, as per exchange data. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses closed significantly higher amid some stability in bond markets after last week's turmoil. Further, progress in the US stimulus package also lent some support to investor sentiments globally. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.88 per cent lower at USD 65.39 per barrel. On the forex market front, the rupee dropped 8 paise to end at 73.55 against the US dollar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-122
01-03-2021||Business||NSE, BSE say all operations working fine||Leading stock exchange NSE on Monday said all its operations are functioning in a normal manner, amid reports of a possible technical glitch. BSE too said all its segments were working fine. The statements came amid HDFC Securities tweeting at around 10 am saying that it has blocked trading in NSE cash due to a technical glitch. "We have blocked trading in NSE cash due to a technical glitch. We request our customers to place cash orders on BSE. All other segments are working fine. Apologies for the inconvenience caused," HDFC Securities said in the tweet. Around 20 minutes later, HDFC Securities tweeted saying, "you can place orders through NSE cash segment now". In a statement, a NSE spokesperson said that all the operations on its platforms were "functioning smooth and normal". At little past 10.10 am, BSE tweeted that there was no issue on fresh orders or square-offs at the exchange. "... all segments working fine statement was given in response to brokers and investors reporting the problem on twitter on a competing exchange today morning. No one has reported any problems in trading at @bseindia today or last week any day," BSE CEO Ashish Chauhan said in a tweet later. The latest episode comes within days of NSE halting trading activities for nearly four hours on Thursday due to technical glitch.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-123
01-03-2021||Business||Sensex surges over 500 points in early trade||The BSE benchmark Sensex rebounded over 500 points in the opening session on Monday as investors cheered the domestic economy returning to growth in the October-December period after two quarters of contraction. The 30-share gauge was trading at 49,608.97, showing a gain of 508.98 points or 1.04 per cent in early session. While the broader NSE Nifty was trading higher by 153.15 points or 1.05 per cent at 14,682.30 in opening deals. The Sensex rally was driven by gains across the board as 27 constituents were trading in the green. On Friday, the BSE Sensex had crashed 1,939.32 points or 3.80 per cent to end at 49,099.99 its worst one-day fall since May 4 last year. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty had plunged 568.20 points or 3.76 per cent to close the session at 14,529.15 the biggest single-day drop since March 23 last year. Meanwhile, foreign investors sold equities worth Rs 8,295.17 crore on a net basis on Friday, as per exchange data. Elsewhere in Asia on Monday, shares were trading higher in afternoon trade amid some stability in bond markets after last week's turmoil. Further, progress in the US stimulus package also lent some support to investor sentiments globally.
Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.58 per cent lower at USD 65.59 per barrel. Analysts said, the high-frequency indicators were pointing towards the fact that the domestic economy is slowly entering the recovery path. After two consecutive quarters of contraction, the Indian economy has finally entered an expansionary path. The Gross Domestic Product (GDP) grew 0.4 per cent in the October-December 2020 period compared with the same period a year back, data released by the National Statistics Office on Friday showed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-123
01-03-2021||Business||Happily retired||The joint family structure was a bulwark of Indian society for much of its history. This structure had an inherent social security system that took care of the elderly. Industrialisation and increase in urban migration in the last few decades has, however, made nuclear families more popular. This fundamental shift in the social fabric has created the need for the elderly to build financial security for themselves and for the younger generations to prepare for their future. According to the United Nations Population Fund and HelpAge India, by 2030, close to 12.5 per cent of India’s population will be over 60, and by 2050, this number will increase to 20 per cent. In the absence of adequate social security systems in India and rising inflation, it is crucial for the current working population to embark on a retirement planning journey. Start early The first step is to arrive at a suitable retirement income. To do that, identify your current and future income, determine your time horizon, forecast expenditure and accordingly choose financial instruments that will help you arrive at that number. It is important to lay the groundwork as early as possible to reap the benefits of compounding. People starting early have more time on their hands to accumulate their desired retirement capital at a comfortable pace than those who start late. For instance, consider a 30-year-old and a 40-year-old working professional. Both are aiming towards  building a retirement capital worth Rs 1 crore by the time they reach 60. Assuming the rate of return to be 8 per cent, the 30-year-old professional would have to approximately invest Rs 1 lakh annually for the next 30 years to reach Rs 1 crore. His total investment would be Rs 30 lakh, whereas our 40-year-old has to shell out Rs 2 lakh annually for the next 20 years, making his total investment reach Rs 40 lakh. Apart from starting early, acute planning and discipline is needed to succeed in this endeavour. Wrapping up your big-ticket expenditure and closing all your loans such as home, vehicle, personal etc before your retire is vital, as carrying debt into your retirement could lead to a major drain on finances. In addition, give due importance to legacy planning in terms of how much to leave for your spouse and/or children. The average life expectancy for both men and women has inched towards 70 years and is projected to climb up further in the coming decades. Therefore, the retirement planning process should be taken very seriously as it will ensure a regular source of income to lead a financially independent retired life. Life insurance companies have developed various tools and calculators which aid individuals in estimating the corpus required to be built and the subsequent income stream. It is common knowledge that anyone who survives till 80 years has to put aside a lot more savings than someone who survives till the age of 70 to avoid the risk of outliving their savings. Annuity products offer a guaranteed regular income during the lifetime of an individual. Annuity products Life insurance firms provide various pension and annuity products. Broadly, there are two types of annuity products — immediate and deferred annuity. Immediate annuity: The premium is paid in a lump sum and the policyholders begin to receive pension immediately in the form of a guaranteed payout at regular intervals for the rest of their lives. This plan in particular is designed for the 60-plus population looking to remove the reinvestment risk attached to fixed-income instruments. As the interest rates fluctuate every quarter, the elderly relying on these instruments might have to deal with the risk of getting a lower rate of interest at the time of reinvesting the principal. Under immediate annuity plans, the policyholders have a steady amount of cash flowing in as long as they live, irrespective of interest rate fluctuations in the fixed income market. Let us understand it with an example. Venugopal Reddy, after retirement as a manager in a private manufacturing company, has been living in Vizag since 2014. On retirement, he invested all his provident fund and gratuity money in a financial instrument giving fixed monthly interest. The rate of return offered then was 8.80 per cent. It was enough for Reddy to meet his financial needs. Cut to 2020, the rate of return has declined to 4-5 per cent, reducing Reddy’s monthly income by half. If Reddy had invested a sizeable chunk of his retirement wealth in a life insurance immediate annuity plan, he may not have faced this issue because of the plan’s fixed rate of return. There are various options offered under the annuity plan by life insurance companies. One of the most preferred one is called ‘‘Joint life with return of purchase price’’, where the policyholders will get the pension amount as long as they are alive. After the demise of one, the spouse will get the same pension amount. After the demise of both, the legal heir would inherit the lump-sum amount which was paid at the time of purchase. Deferred annuity: Under this plan, a policyholder can invest a lump-sum now and choose to start the pension income in the near future. Typically, in such products, the policyholder can choose to ‘‘defer’’ the start of pension for up to 10 years.  It is best suited for people who are in their late 40s and early 50s, who are working but for whom retirement is in the foreseeable future. The key benefit is the guaranteed income for whole life and the fact that the policyholder knows exactly how much income he or she will be getting at the time of buying the policy. Retirement may be the end of a career but it is also the start of something new. It is an opportunity to experiment and explore, to engage in pursuits you care about and perhaps to reinvent your legacy. The writer is chief distribution officer, ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Company||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-123
01-03-2021||Business||DVC on course to meet generation target ||Damodar Valley Corporation hopes to be close to the generation target set by the Central Electricity Authority by the end of the current fiscal despite the setback in the first quarter following the pandemic and the subsequent lockdown. The generation target in 2020-21 for DVC units across Bengal and Jharkhand was 38,600 million units (MU), according to CEA records. Ram Naresh Singh, who had assumed charge as the chairman of DVC in January, said the overall generation by March-end would be close to the target. “In the first quarter of 2020-21, we lost around 3400 MU of generation. We have tried to make up for that loss by maximising our generation and maintaining good coal reserves and scheduling. I am sure with the level of generation we are maintaining today, in February itself we will exceed 34,000 MU and by March we would be in a position to touch 38,000 million units,” Singh said. DVC had generated 37,200 MU in 2019-20. Plant load factor, a measure of generation efficiency, has also improved to around 61 per cent after falling to 47 per cent in the first quarter. Singh, who was earlier with Power Grid Corporation as executive director, said generation improved despite the challenges faced in the maintenance and overhauling of units that were deferred because of the pandemic. “We have found that certain units are in a very critical condition and we must maintain those units before the summer season when demand is expected to pick up,” Singh said. Around 500MW capacity is in the pipeline for overhaul at Mejia in Bankura district of Bengal and Chandrapura in Bokaro district of Jharkhand. “We have set a target to have both units running by March so that in the first quarter all our units will be available for operation,” said Singh. He added that his focus for the corporation is to scale up capacity and increase revenue and efficiency while addressing the challenge of reducing cost. “Today we are a 7,000MW company. Going forward some units may get retired because they are old units. So, we have to go for further capacity addition. By 2030, our company should be 10,000MW plus,” he said. New capacity is expected in the renewable sector with a 1500MW pump storage project in the pipeline near Bokaro and the corporation is also exploring opportunities in the solar field. Mining ambition Singh said mining is another area where the corporation wants to make inroads. It has two blocks under development - Tubed in Jharkhand and Khagra Joydeb in Bengal - with a combined capacity of 9 million tonnes per annum. At present, DVC consumes around 23-25 mtpa of coal. “We are targeting to start mining by this year's end. Once we have our coal mines operational, our energy charge would be reduced and we will be more competitive,” Singh said. DVC is expecting stage 2 forest clearance for Tubed by March end, but progress on Khagra Joydeb is expected after the election in Bengal. The immediate challenges, however, are managing high interest payments and recovering dues from Jharkhand state discom. Singh said DVC has initiated discussion with bankers on credit lines at lower interest and is looking to retire short-term debt of around Rs 7,000 crore through cash flow. “We are also constantly in discussion with Jharkhand who are also stakeholders of DVC to clear the monthly bills,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-123
01-03-2021||Business||Telecom spectrum auctions to start today||Reliance Jio has obtained the most eligibility point among the bidders of telecom spectrum auction that is scheduled from Monday by paying the highest amount of earnest money deposit. Jio has put earnest money deposit of Rs 10,000 crore earning 73,007 eligibility points. Bharti Airtel has deposited Rs 3,000 crore and it has earned 24,924 eligibility points, while Vodafone has 6,153 eligibility points on deposits of Rs 475 crore. Its higher eligibility point allows Jio to bid for a greater chunk of the spectrum in a circle in the initial bidding. Auctions will start for seven bands on Monday but the government has kept 5G spectrum out of the sale. However, brokerages have forecast that over 80 per cent of the spectrum would remain unsold and the operators would preserve cash for the 5G auction likely in the latter half of the year. The auction of 2,251.25 megahertz of spectrum will be in 7 frequency bands between 700 megahertz and 2,500 megahertz. The government can earn Rs 3.92 lakh crore at the floor price. “This auction is critical for RJio, with renewal of 800MHz that is expiring in July-21. Bharti Airtel renewals are mainly in 1,800MHz and in 8 of 22 circles,” brokerage CLSA said. “With significant spectrum unsold, there would be a follow-on crash in reserve prices and this will be a big positive for 5G auctions, as there will be good supply with 275MHz available in 3.3-3.6GHz,” CLSA said in its  research report.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-123
01-03-2021||Business||Questions over Jio 2G upgrade plan||The latest JioPhone offer is unlikely to give any major headache to its rivals as the high upfront commitment may not result in any major subscriber churn, says analysts. Reliance Jio Infocomm (Jio) has announced a offer that bundles the JioPhone device and two years of unlimited services for Rs 1,999 and Rs 1,499 for one year as part of its ‘‘2G-mukt Bharat’’ plan through affordable services. This will come along with 2GB data every month. Through the latest offer, Jio is targeting 300 million subscribers in India who it says are ‘‘trapped’’ in the 2G era and unable to access basic features of the internet. The latest offer will be available from March 1. According to the company, 2G customers spend about Rs 5,000 over a period of two years which include a total recharge of Rs 3,600 and a feature phone in the price range of Rs 1,200-1,500 a unit. It pointed out that feature phone users also pay Rs 1.2-Rs 1.5 every minute of voice call and Rs 45-50 every month to keep their connections active. However, brokerages feel that its offer will not lead to any major disruption though it may lead to some uptick in the company’s subscriber base. ‘‘The new annual JioPhone tariff plans are unlikely to change the competitive dynamics of the industry, given a minimum upfront commitment of Rs 1,499 (including device), an amount more than twice what a 2G feature phone customer typically spends upfront (on device plus initial recharge),” Goldman Sachs said. “Lower effective monthly tariffs by subscribing to longer duration plans has been a regular feature of telco pricing strategies for a long time. However, most consumers still remain on 1- to 3-month plans as the churn on prepaid is quite high, and the Indian consumer’s ability to make lump sum payment remains low,’’ Goldman said. Analysts at Credit Suisse also said the new plan requires higher upfront investment and, considering that the target segment is price sensitive, it may not convert a large proportion of this segment. At present, new user has the option to buy JioPhone for Rs 699 and opt for monthly recharges of Rs 75 or Rs 125, they added. They added that there will be a limited impact on Bharti Airtel as the Sunil Mittal led telco could offset any negative impact from JioPhone through market share win from Vodafone India. The brokerage estimates that JioPhone has a base of around 120 million devices as of December 2020, thereby accounting for 29 per cent of Jio’s subscribers. It added that in the previous fiscal, Jio added 20 million subscribers a quarter on an average, it feels that JioPhone contributed more than 50 per cent. However, in this fiscal, Jio’s subscriber net additions have been down to 7 million a quarter which is a function of lower JioPhone adds. RIL had attributed this slowdown in JioPhone adds to certain supply-chain issues in 2020.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-123
01-03-2021||Business||Reliance Industries raises stake in skyTran||Reliance Industries Ltd on Sunday said it has acquired an additional equity stake in skyTran Inc  for $26.76 million (Rs 197 crore) . The purchase would increase its shareholding to 54.46 per cent in skyTran which is is developing modern transport modes, including personal rapid transit systems. Incorporated under the laws of Delaware, USA, in 2011, the company has developed technology for implementing personal transportation systems aimed at solving the problem of traffic congestion. A statement from RIL added that the technology has been developed by skyTran to create smart mobility solutions.The additional stake has been acquired by Reliance Strategic Business Ventures Ltd , a wholly owned RIL subsidiary. The proposed skyTran transportation systems would consist of computer-controlled passenger pods running on its state-of-the-art, patented ‘‘passive magnetic levitation’’ technology and would use IT, telecom, internet of things (IoT) and advanced materials technologies to transport passengers in a fast, safe, green, and economical manner. The company is also supported by notable global venture capital investors such as  Innovation Endeavors. “Our acquiring majority equity stake in skyTran reflects our commitment to invest in building futuristic technologies that would transform the world,’’ said Mukesh Ambani, chairman and managing director of RIL.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-123
01-03-2021||Business||Tata Motors crosses its 2019-20 sales||Tata Motors has already crossed its 2019-20 sales in the current financial year, crossing 1.65 lakh units till date compared with sales of 1.62 lakh units in the previous fiscal. Its market share has risen to 7.9 per cent from 4.8 per cent. The company hopes to garner 9-10 per cent market share in the coming months. The turnaround for Tata Motors happened in January last year, said Vivek Srivatsa, marketing head of the passenger vehicle unit. “In January 2020, we launched our New Forever portfolio. We not only had a BS-VI portfolio but we had totally upgraded all our cars — the Tiago, Tigor, Nexon, Harrier. Altroz was the new and youngest in the portfolio. And we started seeing the results in February 2020. Then, of course, the lockdown happened but as we slowly unlocked we started seeing the benefits of having an upgraded portfolio of cars,” Srivatsa told The Telegraph on the sidelines of the launch of the Safari. In a challenging year, Tata Motors exhibited a stellar performance in the passenger vehicle market by clocking over 23,000 unit sales every month since October 2020. In the third quarter, the passenger vehicle segment posted its highest sales in the last 33 quarters. “Our focus was not just on design but also safety. Altroz had 5-star GNCAP rating, Tiago and Tigor had 4-star GNCAP rating. We used global standards in materials, fit and finish and customers are appreciating that. We also ramped up our network post lockdown. As we are receiving bookings ahead of production, we are also ramping up our production,” said Srivatsa. The company is doubling its capacity in expectation of increased volumes. When asked if it is hit by supply chain issues, Srivatsa said: “There are some component-based supply chain issues. But our long waiting period is because of increased demand and we are trying to address that by ramping up production.” The company is also hoping that its new SUV Safari, which is retailing at Rs 14.69 lakh, will enhance its market share. SUV is the fastest growing passenger vehicle segment in the country and the new Safari will accelerate the momentum gained by the company’s consistently growing SUV sales that have grown 20 per cent year-to-date compared with the same period last year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-123
01-03-2021||Business||Poll heat on Assam tea gardens||The decision of poll-bound Assam to increase the daily wage of tea garden workers by Rs 50 a day may have a debilitating effect on the organised industry unless the cost push is tempered by a commensurate price of the commodity, garden owners apprehended. Given the weightage of wage in the cost of tea production, the hike may translate into an increase of Rs 25-35 a kg, depending on the productivity of a garden. Prices have remained flat in the last 6-7 years except for 2020 when they rose sharply because of the fall in production during the lockdown. The daily cash wage of tea workers was hiked to Rs 217 a day from Rs 167 a day, except in the Barak valley, where it was increased to Rs 195 a day by the incumbent Sarbananda Sonowal government a week before the poll was announced. The decision closely followed the Mamata Banerjee government’s interim hike in the daily tea wage to Rs 202 a day. Soon after the Assam cabinet announced the decision on February 20, BJP leaders in north Bengal were quick to make it a poll plank on how Assam stole a march over Bengal in offering more money in the hands of the workers. There are about 800 gardens in the organised sector in Assam. Around 17 per cent of the state’s population — many of whom had migrated from central India decades ago — can decide the fate of at least 40 of the 126 Assembly seats in the state. Given the politically  charged atmosphere ahead of the elections, very few garden owners were willing to go on record even as they were worried that the unprecedented hike would bleed even the best performing gardens. Industry worried “This has never happened in the 150-year history of the industry. Nobody will make money. There is no logic behind such a steep hike except competitive populism,” said a top producer. While the gap between the two states may appear to be just Rs 15 a day on paper, the cost to a company in Assam will be Rs 30 a day more than Bengal as the latter provides ration to workers at Rs 2 a kg. Established gardens usually spend around Rs 17 a day on ration. Average auction prices for north Indian tea from January to December stood at Rs 201.87 a kg compared with Rs 152.26 a kg in 2019. During April-January, it was up at Rs 221.33 a kg against Rs 153.50 a kg a year ago. However, in the previous year, the hike was a meagre Rs 2-3 a kg compared with the year before. “As an industry we have only been thinking of how to protect ourselves from the losses. Except for last year, when the north Indian crop was down 10 per cent, it has been very hard to go by. Something has to be done to save the industry,” Chandra Kumar Dhanuka, former chairman of the Indian Tea Association and owner of Dhunseri Tea, said. Industry leaders say the prices may remain firm till July before the rain crop hits the market. A note by Icra said while 2020-21 is likely to turn out to be one of the better years for north Indian bulk tea players, the sustenance of the profitability would be critical for their long-term financial health. ‘‘With Assam increasing the wage by Rs 50 per day, which would translate to Rs 25-30 per kg of made tea, a firm trend in prices is pivotal in determining the profitability in FY22. The sharp hike in wags has not only increased the cost of production for the large bulk producers but also increased their relative cost disadvantage to small growers by widening the gap in cost base,’’ said Kaushik Das, vice-president and sector head, corporate sector ratings, Icra. Shortage in heldover stock along with a robust demand is holding up the prices as of now. However, the industry expects a downward pressure post second flush, when the bumper monsoon crop hits the market from July. Any sharp reversal in tea prices and/or material increase in labour wages could reverse the improvement seen in FY2021, the note said. The paper was published after the Bengal announcement but before the Assam decision was known. While the larger gardens would struggle to meet the directive, some of the smaller gardens may just ignore it altogether. The organised gardens have to even pay wages during winter when no crop is plucked. “Tea is also a cultivation, and nowhere are you asked to pay wages when no farming is taking place. Moreover, the minimum wage is a paradox. If somebody is not happy with the pay, the person can work somewhere else,” a planter argued. Moreover, a sharp spurt in Kenyan crop may also spoil the party for Assam CTC, which is exported, by driving down the prices in the international market.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-123
