03-03-2021||Business||Infosys, Accenture to cover Covid vaccination costs of Indian employees||India’s second-largest IT services firm Infosys and tech giant Accenture on Wednesday said they will cover COVID vaccination costs of their employees in India. People above 60 years of age and those in the 45-59 age brackets with comorbidities are being immunised in the second phase of nationwide vaccination that started on March 1. “Infosys is looking at partnering with healthcare providers to vaccinate employees and their immediate families as eligible under the guidelines given by the Government of India and as per approved procedures and timelines,” Infosys Chief Operating Officer Pravin Rao said in an emailed statement. The company will cover the vaccination cost for the employees and their immediate family members as part of our focus on health and wellness, he added. Rekha M Menon, Chairperson and Senior Managing Director of Accenture in India said the company has continued to monitor and consider the guidance of external experts and groups, including international health organisations and local health authorities. “Based on this, we strongly support the scientific and public health advice that encourages vaccination... for our people who are eligible and choose to receive the COVID-19 vaccination, Accenture in India will cover the cost for the employee and their dependents who are part of our medical benefits programme,” she said. More than 1.56 crore vaccine doses were administered in the country through 3,12,188 sessions, according to a provisional report till Wednesday 7 am. The beneficiaries include 67,42,187 healthcare workers (first dose), 27,13,144 HCWs (second dose), 55,70,230 FLWs or frontline workers (first dose), 834 FLWs (second dose), 71,896 people aged more than 45 years with specific co-morbidities (first dose) and 5,22,458 beneficiaries aged above 60 years. Infosys co-founders N R Narayana Murthy and Kris Gopalakrishnan, and Kotak Mahindra Bank MD and CEO Uday Kotak, are among the business leaders who have received the vaccination. Covaxin and Oxford-AstraZeneca’s Covishield are the two vaccines that are being administered in the country. Covaxin has been indigenously developed by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-120
03-03-2021||Business||Sensex zooms 1,148 points to close above 51,000 mark||Continuing their winning run for the third session in a row, the BSE Sensex surged nearly 1,148 points to breach the 51,000-level and the NSE Nifty recaptured the 15,200-mark on Wednesday, propped up by intense buying in financial and energy stocks. At the closing bell, the 30-share Sensex was up 1,147.76 points or 2.28 per cent at 51,444.65 - the biggest single-day rise since February 2. Intra-day, the index swung 1,243 points. Likewise, the NSE Nifty climbed 326.50 points or 2.19 per cent to end at 15,245.60. The Sensex rally was driven by Bajaj FinServ, Reliance Industries, Bajaj Finance, ICICI Bank, HDFC and Axis Bank. Of the 30 Sensex constituents, 27 closed in the green. Foreign investors had bought equities worth Rs 2,223.16 crore on net basis in Indian capital markets on Tuesday, exchange data showed. Elsewhere in Asia, stock markets extended gains on Wednesday despite an overnight retreat on Wall Street. Meanwhile, Brent Futures rose by 1.84 per cent to trade at USD 63.77 per barrel. On the forex market front, the rupee rose by 65 paise to end at 72.72 against the US dollar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-120
03-03-2021||Business||Sensex, Nifty firm up gains in early trade||Equity benchmarks Sensex and Nifty continued their upward journey in the opening session on Wednesday, propped up by significant gains in financial stocks. The BSE barometer Sensex was trading higher by 411.23 points or 0.82 per cent at 50,708.12 in early session, and the Nifty was up 124.65 points or 0.84 per cent at 15,043.75. The Sensex rally was driven by HDFC, SBI, Bajaj Finance, Axis Bank, IndusInd Bank, L&T and ICICI Bank spurting as much as 1.4 per cent. Of the Sensex constituents, 25 traded in the green. On Tuesday, the Sensex had rallied 447.05 points or 0.90 per cent, and the Nifty had jumped 157.55 points or 1.07 per cent, extending gains for the second day in a row. Foreign investors bought equities worth a net Rs 2,223.16 crore in Indian capital markets on Tuesday, exchange data showed. Elsewhere in Asia on Wednesday, stocks were trading higher in afternoon deals despite an overnight retreat on Wall Street. Meanwhile, Brent Futures rose 0.64 per cent to trade at 63.02 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-120
03-03-2021||Business||IHCL and Ambuja Neotia group tie up to roll out 4 new hotels in Bengal and Sikkim||Indian Hotels Company Ltd (IHCL), the largest hospitality player in the country, may further expand its partnership with the city-based Ambuja Neotia group. The duo is planning to develop four more properties in Bengal and Sikkim, including one at Darjeeling. Ambuja owns land parcels in Ghoom and near Gorumara forest in North Bengal and in Sunderbans, apart from one at Rabangla in Sikkim. They are likely to be developed under the Taj brand. While the properties will be built by Ambuja, IHCL will manage the assets. “We are exploring to extend the partnership with them (Ambuja) beyond the five already contracted,” Puneet Chatwal, managing director of IHCL, said in Calcutta on Tuesday. In November IHCL and Ambuja had formally unveiled their association for five hotels — including three in Bengal, and one each in Sikkim and Patna. The management contract deal between the realtor and the hospitality company already puts IHCL as the largest operator of hotels in Bengal with 800 rooms. “We hope to create a tourism circuit across Bengal and Sikkim. We have picked up some lovely sites in the last 7-8 years,” Harshvardhan Neotia, chairman of Ambuja Realty, said. The first priority for Ambuja would, however, be to complete the ongoing projects. The new properties will be developed after that. “We want to have a presence in every state capital and other important locations,” Chatwal explained. Chatwal was in the city after a tour of Taj Chiakutir, a boutique hotel in the midst of Makaibari tea estate in Kurseong. An hour’s drive from Darjeeling town, the property started operation from mid-December. Chatwal said that the industry as well as the company is witnessing an improvement in business every quarter after the revenue earnings came to a standstill following the lockdown last March. But the situation has started improving in the third and fourth quarter and the trend is expected to continue in the fourth quarter. The growth is largely driven by leisure travel with business travel showing greenshoots. “In December, January and February it would be fair to say we are inching up,” Chatwal said. The hospitality major had earlier informed analysts that in April revenue had almost reached zero with 7 per cent occupancy. From that revenue as percent of same period last year has improved to 60 per cent in December.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-120
03-03-2021||Business||India Inc top guns take Covid jabs||Corporate India is now beginning to vaccinate with some of the bigwigs turning up at various centres to receive their first shots. On Tuesday, Uday Kotak, the MD & CEO of Kotak Mahindra Bank, took the first jab of the Covid-19 vaccine. He follows Infosys co-founders N R. Narayana Murthy and Kris Gopalakrishnan who got vaccinated on Monday as the government kicked off the second round. Narayana Murthy was accompanied by his wife Sudha Murty, the chairperson of Infosys Foundation, who also received the first shot. While the common message from all of these recipients was that the vaccination process was painless and without any side-effects, the coming days is likely to see more prominent faces from the business and finance community taking their jabs. “Happy to share that I took the first shot of the vaccine this morning. Smooth and no pain,” Uday Kotak said in a tweet sharing his photograph while being administered the vaccine. He however, did not disclose which vaccine was administered. Biocon chairperson Kiran Mazumdar Shaw also disclosed that she got vaccinated at Narayana Hrudayalaya in Bangalore on Monday. Incidentally, Shaw had tested positive for Covid-19 last year and recovered subsequently. “I just got vaccinated at Narayana Health-painless no injection related side effects. I guess its a booster dose for me since I had Covid six months ago. Feel safe & protected,’’ she tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-121
03-03-2021||Business||Kotak Mahindra Bank cuts home loan rates to 6.65 per cent||Kotak Mahindra Bank has announced a 10 basis points reduction in its home loan rates for a limited period. The private sector lender is offering 6.65 per cent to its customers, which it says is the lowest in the market. The announcement came amid the State Bank of India (SBI) dropping interest rates on home loans by 10 basis points after which its revised interest rate stands at 6.70 per cent. The country’s largest bank had said that the new rates were based on the loan amount and the credit score of the borrower, and are available till March 31, 2021. Kotak Bank which has been looking to ramp up its market share in the highly competitive home loan segment, said that customers will be able to avail themselves the loans for 6.65 per cent till March 31 as part of a special offer after the rate reduction. Home loan rates are now at a 15-year low as the RBI has been maintaining an accommodative policy. Observers expect a positive response to the latest offer from Kotak Bank and it is felt that the lender could also wean away existing customers of other banks through balance transfer. Interest rates are linked to the borrowers' credit score and the Loan to Value (LTV) ratio, Kotak Bank said. LTV is that portion of the property value which can be financed through an housing loan. “We are delighted to offer consumers a special year-end bonus in the form of even lower interest rates,” its president for consumer assets Ambuj Chandna said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-121
03-03-2021||Business||India lures Tesla with incentives to offer cheaper production costs than China||India is ready to offer incentives to ensure Tesla Inc's cost of production would be less than in China if the carmaker commits to making its electric vehicles in the south Asian country, transport minister Nitin Gadkari told Reuters. Gadkari's pitch comes weeks after billionaire Elon Musk's Tesla registered a company in India in a step towards entering the country, possibly as soon as mid-2021. Sources familiar with the matter have said Tesla plans to start by importing and selling its Model 3 electric sedan in India. "Rather than assembling (the cars) in India they should make the entire product in the country by hiring local vendors. Then we can give higher concessions," Gadkari said in an interview, without giving details of what incentives would be on offer. "The government will make sure the production cost for Tesla will be the lowest when compared with the world, even China, when they start manufacturing their cars in India. We will assure that," he said. India wants to boost local manufacturing of electric vehicles (EVs), batteries and other components to cut costly imports and curb pollution in its major cities. This comes amid a global race by carmakers to jump-start EV production as countries work towards cutting carbon emissions. But India faces a big challenge to win a production commitment from Tesla, which did not immediately respond to an email requesting comment about its plans in the country. India's fledgling EV market accounted for just 5,000 out of a total 2.4 million cars sold in the country last year as negligible charging infrastructure and the high cost of EVs deterred buyers. In contrast, China, where Tesla already makes cars, sold 1.25 million new energy passenger vehicles, including EVs, in 2020 out of total sales of 20 million, and accounted for more than a third of Tesla's global sales. India also doesn't have a comprehensive EV policy like China which mandates companies to invest in the sector. Gadkari said that as well as being a big market, India could be an export hub, especially with about 80% of components for lithium-ion batteries being made locally now. “I think it's a win-win situation for Tesla," Gadkari said, adding he also wanted to engage with Tesla about building an ultra high-speed hyperloop between Delhi and Mumbai.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-121
03-03-2021||Business||RBI wants banks to limit ownership stakes in capital intensive insurance companies||India’s central bank wants banks to limit ownership stakes in capital intensive insurance companies at a maximum 20 per cent, less than half of what the current regulations permit, three sources with knowledge of the discussions said. Reserve Bank of India (RBI) rules allow banks to hold up to 50 per cent stakes in insurers and on a selective basis equity holdings can be higher but must eventually be brought down within a certain period. The sources, who asked not to be named as the discussions are private, however said the RBI in 2019 unofficially advised banks seeking to acquire stakes in insurers, to limit such stakes to a maximum of 30 per cent, and more recently directed them to cap stake purchases in insurers at 20 per cent. “Unofficially, banks have been told that the regulator is not comfortable with lenders increasing their stakes because the insurance business is seen as a money guzzler,” one source said. The RBI wants banks to focus on their main areas of business instead of locking away capital in non-core sectors. The central bank did not respond to a request seeking comment. The unofficial push suggests the RBI is looking for uniformity around ownership rules for lenders with exposure in the sector, following suggestions made in a working paper by an internal group released in November. Some lenders such as Kotak Mahindra Bank and State Bank of India have wholly-owned or majority owned insurance subsidiaries, and the paper had suggested that if any lender had more than a 20 per cent stake in an insurer, they should follow a non-operative financial holding company (NOFHC) structure which will ring fence ownership. Most lenders are not keen to adopt such a structure on concerns it will hurt shareholder value and limit their capital raising ability, one of the sources said. Recommendations made by the working paper are under consideration by the RBI and it is not clear when the central bank will act on or implement the suggestions. In light of this, the sources said the RBI was likely to stall on any requests by banks to boost or acquire new stakes in insurers. The move comes at a time when India is keen to woo foreign investment in its insurance sector. Reuters Last month, the government said it would allow foreign direct investment of up to 74% in insurers, up from 49%. Many foreign insurers are expected to explore the opportunity as insurance penetration continues to be low in India. With fears that banks’ bad loans could double amid the Covid-19 pandemic, the RBI does not want banks to lock up money in capital intensive businesses, the sources said. The RBI may have reservations about banks having more than 20% stakes in any non-core companies, one of the sources said. Federal Bank, which sought permission from the RBI to increase its stake in Ageas Federal Life insurance after its board approved the deal about a year ago, has still not received RBI approval, one of the sources said. Federal Bank did not respond to a request seeking comment. Last year, the RBI had also rejected Axis Bank’s application to directly purchase a 17% stake in Max Life. The transaction was only approved after Axis restructured it and agreed to purchase the stake with two subsidiaries, bringing down the bank’s direct ownership share to less than 10%. Axis Bank did not respond to a request seeking comment on whether it restructured the deal on the advice of the RBI.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-121
03-03-2021||Business||World added 412 billionaires to take total to 3,228: Hurun Global Rich list||The world has added 412 billionaires — 8 billionaires a week — to take the total number of billionaires to 3,228, says the Hurun Global Rich list. The report, however, adds that it has probably missed out on one in every two billionaires because of the secrecy and lack of publicly available information. Forty Indians entered the billionaire’ club in the pandemic-stricken 2020 to take the number to 177 people. The report compiles individual or family wealth in the year to January 15. It can be noted that the Indian economy is set to contract over 7 per cent because of the impact of the pandemic, which had a debilitating impact on the poor. The report comes at a time  concerns are being raised about a “K-shaped” recovery being underway, where a select few prosper. Hurun said Indian wealth creation is dominated by cyclical or traditional industries compared to tech-driven wealth creation in the US and China. “When the tech-driven wealth creation reaches full potential, India could potentially beat USA in terms of the number of billionaires,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-121
03-03-2021||Business||Reliance Jio corners more than half of spectrum auctioned by govt||The first telecom spectrum auction in five years swiftly ended on Tuesday just a day after it commenced with 855.60Mhz of the 2,250Mhz spectrum sold for a consideration of Rs 77,814.80 crore. Reliance Jio cornered more than half of the spectrum auctioned by the government over the past two days, offering about Rs 57,123 crore for the airwaves. Jio's owned spectrum  footprint has risen “significantly” by 55 per cent through the acquisition, a company release said. Bharti Airtel bid Rs 18,699 crore to pick up 355.45Mhz spectrum. Vodafone Idea Ltd bought 11.8Mhz spectrum worth Rs 1,993.40 crore. The spectrum on offer was spread across seven bands — 700Mhz, 800Mhz, 900Mhz, 1800Mhz, 2100Mhz, 2300Mhz and 2500Mhz — worth Rs 3.92 lakh crore at their floor price. But there were no takers for the spectrum in the premium 700Mhz band and the 2500Mhz band. “Given the Covid scenario in the country and other stress situations the sector is facing, the collection exceeded what the government’s expectations. We are happy the industry is confident and it has bid to acquire more airwaves,” telecom secretary Anshu Prakash said. “The fact that in 700 Mhz no bid has come is something we will see. But there is also a distinct possibility that now with 5G technology that's going to come (bid for 700Mhz) sooner or later. If 700 MHz is not sold in this auction, nothing prevents it from being sold in the next auction,” Prakash said. The government expects to get about Rs 15,000 crore in upfront payment this fiscal and the balance about Rs 11,000 crore in the next fiscal, officials said. Icra vice-president Ankit Jain said, “While the value of total spectrum sold is only 19 per cent of the total value of spectrum on offer, post the auctions, the debt levels of the industry would increase further to around Rs 5 lakh crore as on March 31, 2022 and despite the improvement in the operating metrics, the debt protection metrics will continue to remain weak.” Big gains Reliance Jio placed orders for spectrum in all the 22 circles. The company had placed bids for 488.35 Mhz.  Jio said it would make an upfront payment of Rs 19,939 crore and the remaining sum over the 18 year period. Jio has spent Rs 34,491 crore for 800 Mhz, Rs 12,461 crore for 1800 Mhz and Rs 10,170 crore for 2300 Mhz. Bharti Airtel said it has acquired 355.45 MHz across sub Ghz, mid band and 2300 MHz bands . Vodafone Idea Ltd (VI) placed bids for 11.8 Mhz in the auction. Vodafone Idea  said the spectrum acquired by it is in the five circles will help boost the company’s4G coverage and capacity. Jio and Bharti are also gearing to roll out 5G networks in India and conserving some funding fire power for that as well, sources said.. “RJIL’s spectrum has been acquired in the most cost efficient manner with an effective cost of Rs 60.8 crore per MHz.  The acquired spectrum can be utilised for transition to 5G services at the appropriate time, where Jio has developed its own 5G stack,” the largest telecom operator said in a statement. Mukesh D Ambani, Chairman, Reliance Industries, said, “Jio has revolutionised the digital landscape of India with the country becoming the fastest adopter of Digital Life. We want to ensure that we keep on enhancing experiences, not only for our existing customers, but also for the next 300 million users that will move to digital services. With our increased spectrum footprint, we are ready to further expand the digital footprint in India as well as get ourselves ready for the imminent 5G rollout.” He had earlier announced plans to launch 5G services in the country in the middle of this year. Gopal Vittal, MD & CEO (India & South Asia), Bharti Airtel said it now has a solid spectrum portfolio that will enable it to continue delivering the best mobile broadband experience in India. We are most excited at bringing the power of Airtel services to an additional 90 million customers in India through the power of our Pan India Sub GHz footprint." “Despite the large amount of spectrum made available, the 700 MHz band did not get any bid from the operators as it made no economic case for them based on the high reserve prices. The 700 MHz band coupled with the 3.5 GHz band has the potential to accelerate India's progress to the top league of digitally enabled nations. Therefore, the reserve pricing of these bands must be addressed on priority in future. This will help the nation to benefit from the digital dividend that will inevitably arise out of this,” he added. Vodafone Idea Limited said it has acquired spectrum in the 5 circles which will further help it to enhance 4G coverage and capacity, enabling superior digital experience for its customers. “In the next few years, the industry is readying to deploy 5G technology with India specific use cases. We are hopeful that a larger quantum of spectrum in globally harmonised bands, will be made available for all operators in the future as well as it would be at fair prices that allows operators to have the ability to rapidly roll out networks," it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-121
03-03-2021||Business||Finance ministry considering cutting excise duties on petrol and diesel||India’s finance ministry is considering cutting excise duties on petrol and diesel to cushion the impact of record high domestic prices, three government officials close to the discussions said. A doubling in the price of crude oil over the past 10 months has contributed to record fuel prices in the country. But taxes and duties account for roughly 60 per cent of the retail price of petrol and diesel in the country, the world’s third biggest consumer of crude oil. As the coronavirus pandemic hit economic activity, Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government twice raised taxes on petrol and diesel in the last 12 months to boost sagging tax revenues instead of passing on the benefits of low oil prices last year to consumers. The finance ministry has now started consultations with some states, oil companies and the oil ministry to find the most effective way to lower the tax burden on consumers without federal finances taking a big hit, the sources said. “We are discussing ways in which prices can be kept stable. We will be able to take a view of the issue by mid-March,” said one of the sources. The sources, who asked not to be named as the deliberations are private, said the government wants oil prices to stabilise before cutting taxes, as it does not want to be forced to change the tax structure again, should crude prices rise further. India’s finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman recently said: “I can’t say when we will reduce taxes on fuel, but (the) Centre and states have to talk to reduce fuel taxes”. India’s finance ministry and the oil ministry did not respond to an email requesting comment. The high fuel prices have prompted some Indian states to cut state-level taxes on petrol and diesel to rein in prices. Another one of the sources said a decision on fuel taxes may only be made following a meeting of Opec and major oil producers, also known as Opec+, later this week. “There is an expectation that Opec+ would agree to ease oil output curbs, we hope oil prices will stabilise after their decision,” this source said. India has called on Opec+ to ease production cuts as higher crude prices are hitting fuel demand in Asia’s third largest economy and are contributing to inflation. The high fuel prices could also affect Modi’s popularity ahead of state assembly polls in four states in March and April. Modi and the BJP are already facing their biggest political challenge in years with tens of thousands of farmers protesting against three farm laws passed by his government in 2020. The federal government and states together raised some Rs 5.56 lakh crore in revenues from the petroleum sector in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2020, based on government data. Reuters In the nine months of this fiscal year (April-December 2020), contributions from the sector were about Rs 4.21 lakh crore, despite a significant decline in local fuel demand, the data showed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-121
