04-03-2021||Business||Sensex tumbles 599 points in line with global meltdown||Snapping its three-session winning run, the BSE Sensex plunged by around 599 points to crack below the key 51,000-level on Thursday amid a meltdown in global shares triggered by a surge in US bond yields. Intra-day, the 30-share BSE index fell as much as 905 points before ending the session at 50,846.08, showing a decline of 598.57 points or 1.16 per cent. The broader NSE Nifty too closed with a loss of 164.85 points or 1.08 per cent at 15,080.75. On the Sensex chart, HDFC, L&T, SBI, Axis Bank, Bajaj FinServ and HDFC Bank were major laggards dropping up to 2.62 per cent. Of 30 Sensex shares, 25 closed with losses. "Domestic equities traded lower today mainly on weak global cues Financials and Metals indices were keg drags today, while FMCG, Pharma and IT indices were resilient. A sharp 6 bps rise in 10-Year USA treasury yield made investors jittery today, said Binod Modi, Head - Strategy at Reliance Securities. Over the previous three sessions, the Sensex had risen by 2,344.66 points or 4.77 per cent, while the Nifty had added 716.45 points or 4.93 per cent. Foreign investors had bought equities worth Rs 2,088.70 crore on a net basis in Indian capital markets on Wednesday, according to exchange data. On Thursday, Asian shares too tumbled after an overnight surge in bond yields dragged Wall Street lower. On the forex market front, the rupee ended 11 paise lower at 72.83 against the US dollar. Meanwhile, global crude oil benchmark Brent was trading 1.16 per cent higher at USD 64.73 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-119
04-03-2021||Business||EPFO fixes 8.5 per cent interest rate in current financial year||Retirement fund organisation EPFO on Thursday decided to retain 8.5 per cent rate of interest on provident fund deposits for the current financial year. EPFO has more than five crore active subscribers. The Employees' Provident Fund Organisation's (EPFO) apex decision-making body Central Board of Trustees decided to fix 8.5 per cent rate of interest for 2020-21 at its meeting in Srinagar on Thursday, sources said. There were speculations that the EPFO would lower interest on provident fund deposits for this fiscal (2020-21) from 8.5 per cent given in 2019-20 in view of more withdrawals and lesser contribution by members amid the coronavirus pandemic. In March last year, the EPFO had lowered interest rate on provident fund deposits to a seven-year low of 8.5 per cent for 2019-20, from 8.65 per cent in 2018-19. The EPF (Employees Provident Fund) interest rate provided for 2019-20 was the lowest since 2012-13, when it was 8.5 per cent. The EPFO had provided 8.65 per cent interest rate to its subscribers in 2016-17 and 8.55 per cent in 2017-18. The rate of interest was slightly higher at 8.8 per cent in 2015-16. It had given 8.75 per cent rate of interest in 2013-14 as well as 2014-15, higher than 8.5 per cent for 2012-13. The EPFO had provided 8.25 per cent rate of interest on provident fund in 2011-12.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-119
04-03-2021||Business||HDFC reduces home loan rates by five basis points||HDFC, the country’s largest housing finance company (HFC), on Wednesday said it has cut its rates by five basis points. HDFC’s loans will now start from 6.75 per cent. The mortgage lender’s offer to its existing and new clients comes soon after competitors such as State Bank of India and Kotak Mahindra Bank brought down their rates by 10 basis points. A statement by the lender said it had reduced its retail prime lending rate — against which all its loans are benchmarked — by five basis points with effect from March 4. HDFC said the change would benefit all existing retail customers. Before this revision, the corporation was offering loans beginning at 6.80 per cent. Bond issue In a separate announcement, HDFC said it will raise up to Rs 5,000 crore by issuing non-convertible debentures on a private placement basis. In a regulatory filing, HDFC said that the issue will open on March 5 and close the same day. The base size of the issue of secured redeemable NCDs is Rs 2,000 crore with an option to retain oversubscription up to Rs 3,000 crore, it added. Meanwhile, state-owned Bank of Baroda has raised Rs 4,500-crore equity capital through a qualified institutional placement (QIP). The capital raising committee of the board on Wednesday approved the issue.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-119
04-03-2021||Business||Sensex dives 726 points in early trade tracking global sell-offs||The BSE Sensex slumped over 726 points to slip below the key 51,000-level in early trade on Thursday, tracking meltdown in global shares due to surge in bond yields overseas. The 30-share Sensex was trading at 50,718.36, showing a fall of 726.29 points or 1.41 per cent. While the broader NSE Nifty was trading down 197.05 points or 1.29 per cent at 15,048.55. On the Sensex chart, HDFC duo fell as much as 2.48 per cent, followed by Bajaj FinServ, Kotak Bank and Bajaj Finance dropping up to 2.23 per cent. Of Sensex shares, 27 traded in the red. Over the previous three sessions, the Sensex had risen by 2,344.66 points or 4.77 per cent, while the Nifty had added 716.45 points or 4.93 per cent. Asian shares tumbled on Thursday after an overnight surge in bond yields dragged Wall Street lower. "Bond yields are now exerting a major influence on stock prices, globally. After spiking to 1.6 per cent on February 25, the US 10-year yield fell to 1.4 per cent and yesterday it has again risen to 1.48 per cent impacting equity markets," said V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services. Foreign investors had bought equities worth Rs 2,088.70 crore on a net basis in Indian capital markets on Wednesday, according to exchange data. Meanwhile, global crude oil benchmark Brent was trading 0.36 per cent higher at USD 64.22 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-119
04-03-2021||Business||Hospitality industry pins hopes on travel revival||The hospitality industry, overlooked in the Union budget, hopes to receive some support from the Centre once international travel opens up. Puneet Chhatwal, chairman, CII national committee on tourism and hospitality, said while the industry would indirectly benefit from infrastructure spending by the Centre, the grant of infrastructure status would benefit the sector that has borne the brunt of the Covid pandemic. “The industry has not given up the expectations. We do feel during the course of the year, once international travel opens up something in some form will come,” said Chhatwal on Tuesday. “We got the industry status in Maharashtra and Karnataka and we are in negotiations and talks with other states,” he added. Hotels in Bengal do not have industry status at present The industry status lowers the burden of utility payments and duties to the state, including high-cost items such as electricity, water and property. This will improve the operational cost. However, according to the industry, there is room for streamlining the benefits and improving the ease of doing business. The government has granted infrastructure industry status to hotel projects that are above Rs 200 crore. But as mid-market hotel projects come in at less than this amount, promoters have to pay back the loans in a relatively shorter time period of eight years. The CII in a note on the revival roadmap of the sector had urged the government to give infrastructure industry status for lower investments. “The tax benefits would help hotels secure long-term loans with repayment schedules of 15-25 years. This will help in getting increased return on investments,” said the CII note. Occupancy dips The occupancy rate for India’s hotels in January 2021 was subdued after a frenzy in December 2020, according to hospitality consultancy HVS Anarock. At 46-48 per cent level, the increase in occupancy in January was a mere 1-2 per cent above December whereas the growth was 27-29 per cent above November 2020. The spike in December was on account of the holiday season.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-119
04-03-2021||Business||Rishi Sunak raises UK corporate tax to 25%||Finance minister Rishi Sunak announced a costly extension of his emergency aid programmes to see Britain’s economy through its current coronavirus lockdown, but announced a tax hike for many businesses as he began to focus on fixing the public finances. Delivering an annual budget speech on Wednesday, Sunak said the economy will regain its pre-pandemic size in the middle of 2022, six months earlier than forecast, helped by Europe’s fastest Covid-19 vaccination programme. Sunak promised to do “whatever it takes” to steer the economy through what he hopes will be the final months of pandemic restrictions. In a first move to raise taxes, Sunak announced he would raise corporation tax to 25 per cent from 19 per cent from 2023, by which time the economy should be past the pandemic crisis. “Even after this change the UK will still have the lowest corporation tax rate in the G7 —lower than the US, Canada, Italy, Japan, Germany and France,” he said. Reuters Businesses with profits of 50,000 pounds or less would pay a new Small Profits Rate, maintained at the current rate of 19%. Sunak also said he would freeze the amount of money that people can earn tax-free and the threshold for the higher rate of income tax until 2026.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-119
04-03-2021||Business||Birla Corporation jute division sets export revenue goal of Rs 50 crore in 2021-22||The jute division of Birla Corporation has set its sight on an export revenue of Rs 50 crore in 2021-22, driven by value-added products. The company is looking to invest Rs 20 crore in the production line over the next two years. The company expects a shift in the mix between government orders and the more remunerative value-added products. The latter primarily includes shopping bags but the company expects to expand its offering. “Compared with jute bags sold to the government, value-added products make a much bigger contribution to profitability. Birla Jute Mills started its shopping bags stitching unit in September 2019 with an initial capacity of 2,000 bags per day. Within a year, the capacity has been scaled up to 10,000 bags per day. The aim is to double it to 20,000 bags per day within the next three years,” said G.R. Verma, president, Birla Jute Mills, Birla Corporation Limited. He added that Birla Jute Mills is conducting an internal research to use organic substances for lamination of jute bags instead of mineral oil-based polypropylene. Also, it is looking to launch other products such as mats, rugs, school bags and cooler bags. “In 2019-20, Birla Jute Mills’ export revenue was at Rs 39 crore. In the current financial year, export revenue is expected to remain unchanged despite severe disruptions in production and exports due to the Covid-19 pandemic. In the next financial year, it is expected that export revenue will go up to Rs 50 crore,” said Verma. He added that value-added products currently contribute around 22 percent of revenue, whereas contribution of jute bags sold to the government is around 56 per cent.There is a near term target to scale up the contribution of value-added products to 30 per cent of revenue, and reduce contribution of sales to the government to 45 per cent. “Despite challenges when the jute industry was going through a rough patch and mills were making losses, we invested to make Birla Jute more efficient and to expand into value-added products. Today, as the world increasingly realizes the environmental hazards of plastic, Birla Jute is turning in record profits quarter after quarter. And this, to my mind, is sustainable for a very long time into the future,” said Harsh V. Lodha, chairman, Birla Corporation Limited.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-119
04-03-2021||Business||India’s services activity expands at fastest rate in a year during February||India’s services activity expanded at the fastest rate in a year during February, while employment fell further and companies noted the sharpest rise in overall expenses, a monthly survey said on Wednesday. The seasonally adjusted India Services Business Activity Index rose to 55.3 in February from 52.8 in January, pointing to the sharpest rate of expansion in output in a year amid improved demand and more favourable market conditions. The index was above the critical 50-mark that separates growth from contraction for the fifth month in a row during February as the roll-out of Covid-19 vaccines led to an improvement in business confidence. While new work intakes expanded for the fifth straight month, panellists continued to indicate that the Covid-19 pandemic and travel restrictions curbed international demand for their services.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-120
04-03-2021||Business||Policy holders can file online complaints against insurance brokers||Complaints against insurance brokers can be put before an ombudsman, one of the major changes in the insurance ombudsman rules that were notified on Thursday. The changed rules allow policy holders to file online complaints, the finance ministry said. The scope of complaints to ombudsmen have been enhanced from just disputes to deficiencies in services by insurers, agents, brokers and other intermediaries. The government has notified comprehensive amendments to the Insurance Ombudsman Rules, 2017, with a view to improve the working of the ombudsman mechanism to facilitate resolution of complaints regarding deficiencies in insurance services in a timely, cost-effective and impartial manner. Under the amended rules, the timeliness and cost-effectiveness of the mechanism has been substantially strengthened. Policyholders can now file complaints electronically to the ombudsman, and a complaints management system will be created to enable them to track the status of their complaints online. Further, the ombudsman may use video-conferencing for hearings. “Further, insurance brokers have been brought within the ambit of the ombudsman mechanism, by empowering the ombudsmen to pass awards against insurance brokers as well,” the ministry said. “A number of amendments have been made for securing the independence and integrity of the ombudsman selection process, while also building in safeguards to secure the independence and impartiality of the appointed persons while serving as ombudsmen,” the ministry said. The selection committee will now include an individual with a track  record of promoting consumer rights or advancing the cause of consumer protection in the insurance sector. The ombudsman mechanism was administered by the Executive Council of Insurers, which has been renamed as the Council for Insurance Ombudsmen. If there is a vacancy in the post of an ombudsman, provision has been made in the rules to give additional charge to another ombudsman, pending the filling of the vacancy. A number of amendments have been made for securing the independence and integrity of the ombudsman selection process, while also building safeguards to secure the independence and impartiality of the appointed persons while serving as ombudsmen.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-120
04-03-2021||Business||Jindal Steel & Power keen to acquire Reliance Naval & Engineering Ltd||Shares of Reliance Naval & Engineering Ltd (RNEL) were locked at the upper circuit on Wednesday on reports that Jindal Steel & Power (JSPL) and two others are interested to acquire the company. On the BSE, the Reliance Naval scrip ended 4.79 per cent higher at Rs 3.06. Around 8 lakh shares were transacted on the exchange against a two-week average of 6.65 lakh shares. A Bloomberg report said Reliance Naval can be a captive client for its ship building plates. The report added that Dubai-based shipping firm GMS and Kotak Special Situations Fund have also registered to bid for Reliance Naval. RNEL is now undergoing a debt resolution process in the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT). It has an outstanding debt of around Rs 11,000 crore and IDBI Bank, the lead banker of the consortium of lenders of RNEL, had taken the company to NCLT Ahmedabad because of a default in loan repayment. Reliance Infratel The NCLT has upheld the petition of Doha Bank seeking priority payment for the financial creditors of Reliance Infratel which will lead to around Rs 3,515 crore recovery for the lenders, according to a source aware of the development. The payment has to be made from a payment of about Rs 4,400 crore realised from sale of assets to a Reliance Industries subsidiary. According to the source, State Bank of India will receive Rs 728 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-120
04-03-2021||Business||Adani Ports acquires 31.5 per cent stake in Gangavaram Port||Adani Ports and Special Economic Zones (APSEZ) Ltd is acquiring a 31.5 per cent stake held by an affiliate of Warburg Pincus in Gangavaram Port Ltd (GPL) and certain rail assets from the promoters, taking its market share in the country’s ports to 30 per cent. In a late evening announcement, Adani Ports said it will acquire the stake held by Windy Lakeside Investment Ltd, an affiliate of Warburg, in Gangavaram for Rs 1,954 crore, subject to regulatory approvals. Adani Ports said they were also in discussions with Gangavaram promoter — DVS Raju and family — for their 58.1 per cent stake, translating to around 30 crore shares, in the port. Gangavaram is located in the northern part of Andhra Pradesh next to the Vizag port. It is the second-largest non-major port in Andhra Pradesh with a 64-million-tonne capacity set up under concession from the Andhra Pradesh government that extends till 2059. It is an all-weather, deep water, multi-purpose port capable of handling fully laden super cape size vessels of up to 200,000 DWT. At present, it operates nine berths. Adani Ports said the master plan for Gangavaram envisages as many as 31 berths with capacity to handle 250 million tonnes. The port handles a diverse mix of dry and bulk commodities including coal, iron ore, fertilisers, limestone, bauxite, sugar, alumina and steel. In the last financial year, GPL had a cargo volume of 34.5 million tonnes and it generated a revenue of Rs 1,082 crore, and a profit after tax of Rs 516 crore. The company is also debt-free with a cash balance of over Rs 500 crore. Of the rest, the current promoters hold 58.1 per cent, while the Andhra Pradesh government owns 10.4 per cent. The Adanis are acquiring the Warburg Pincus stake of around 16.3 crore shares at Rs 120 per share. “The acquisition of GPL is part of our continued strategy to build out a port and logistics network that is unmatched in its ability to serve customers across the nation. The location of GPL in the north of Andhra Pradesh is a strategic complement to our recent acquisition of the port of Krishnapatnam that serves the south of AP,” according to Karan Adani, CEO and whole-time director of APSEZ. “We believe that GPL holds great potential to complement its bulk cargo terminals with new cargo categories that we intend to develop.” Rail deal APSEZ said Brahmi Tracks Management Services Pvt Ltd will be merged with itself in a share-swap deal. Brahmi is involved in the laying up of railway tracks. Similarly, Adani Tracks Management Services Pvt Ltd (Adani Tracks), its wholly owned subsidiary, will be merged with a group firm Sarguja Rail Corridor Pvt Ltd in a share-swap deal. The company added that the objective behind this exercise is to consolidate the rail assets under one entity which will work to develop existing and new railway lines across the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-120
04-03-2021||Business||Jio and Airtel likely to delay tariff hikes: Analysts||Reliance Jio may have cornered 75 per cent of all the spectrum sold in the low-key auction this week but Bharti Airtel still remains the market leader with a spectrum share of 29.5 per cent against Jio’s 25 per cent. Airtel has focused its attention on the B circles — Kerala, Punjab, Haryana, UP West and East, Rajasthan, MP and Bengal. Airtel is looking to beef up its market share of 28 per cent in the B-circles where it trails Jio. Airtel said in a statement that it acquired 355.45Mhz spectrum across sub-Ghz, mid band and 2300MHz bands, giving it “most formidable” spectrum holding in the country. All of the spectrum will enable Airtel to deliver 5G services in the future, it added. A Goldman Sachs report said Jio and Airtel would grow at the cost of Vodafone Idea Limited. Other brokerages — Jefferies and Emkay — said the bids indicate the two telecom players were looking to consolidate their base and, therefore, likely to delay tariff hikes which they believe is critical to sustain profitability. Jio may prioritise selling excess capacity created by its spectrum purchase while Bharti’s approach has been to acquire spectrum in its weaker markets — moves that “do not bode well for the tariff environment”. Bharti is clearly looking to focus on market share gains, the report added. Sweta Patodia, analyst, corporate finance group, Moody’s Investors Service, said, “Indian telcos’ spectrum acquisition can be accommodated in their current ratings, particularly amid the stabilising competitive environment. Some have recently raised funds while others have large cash holdings to support the acquisitions. The spectrum renewals will help incumbents protect their market positions while additional bandwidth purchases will drive improved network coverage.” Analysts at Axis Capital said that the cash outgo will be keenly watched given the high debt level of the incumbents and continued delay in tariff hike. “This could lead to funding gap concern for Vodafone Idea given continued delay in raising funds, high debt level, and renewed pricing aggression in some segments.” Nitesh Jain, director, Crisil Ratings, said the purchase of spectrum will further stretch the gearing of the telecom sector. Average debt to earnings before interest, depreciation and taxation and amortisation (Ebidta) will increase to 5.4 times from the previous estimate of 4.4 times. Telcos bid for 37 per cent of the 2,309 MHz spectrum put on sale by the government. The 2,300 MHz band was the most preferred among bidders. Despite a sharp 43% reduction in the reserve price for 700 MHz band (considered to be the most efficient spectrum band) compared with the previous auction, reserve prices were high overall, which led to the spectrum being unsold across circles for the second straight auction. While the overall premium (over reserve price) has come down to below 5 per cent, for the 900 MHz band, it was much higher at 30 per cent as the reserve prices were reduced by 65 per cent from the previous auction. He said the purchase of spectrum will further stretch the gearing of the telecom sector. Average debt to Ebitda ratio would increase to 5.4 times as on March 31, 2021, from CRISIL’s previous estimate of 4.4 times. “A higher leverage may, therefore, catalyse tariff hikes. It could necessitate a 25-30% increase in tariffs for a sustainable return on capital employed (RoCE) of 8-10% and for the debt to Ebitda ratio to correct to 3.5-4 times by the end of next fiscal,” Jain added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-120
04-03-2021||Business||Sensex surges nearly 1,148 points to close above 51,000-level||The BSE Sensex on Wednesday catapulted by nearly 1148 points to end once again above the 51000-level, fuelled by energy and finance stocks as investors remained confident about the recovery of the economy. The rally came on expectations that the forthcoming US stimulus will have a favourable effect on global economic growth. Back home, there was good news from the services sector which in February grew at its fastest pace in the past 12 months following the rise in new orders. Dealing room circles added the good response to the second round of vaccination in the country only strengthened the undertone. Institutions were also active with provisional data showing FPIs purchasing stocks worth Rs 2,089 crore and domestic institutions buying stocks of around Rs 393 crore. The 30-share Sensex began on a strong note and built upon its gains to hit an intra-day high of 51539.89 — a rise of 1243 points.  The Sensex gave off some of these gains to close at 51444.65 up 1147.76 points or 2.28 per cent at 51444.65 — the biggest single-day rise since February 2. Similarly, the NSE Nifty climbed 326.50 points or 2.19 per cent to end at 15245.60. Bajaj Finserv led the the Sensex pack rising 5.18 per cent, followed by Reliance Industries, up 4.52 per cent and Bajaj Finance, up 4.47 per cent. Axis Bank, ICICI Bank and HDFC were the other big gainers of the day, rising up to 3.50 per cent. Elsewhere in Asia, stocks extended their gains on Wednesday despite an overnight retreat on Wall Street. “Stocks advanced in Asia on Wednesday after a wobbly day on Wall Street as investors focused on optimism that more imminent US stimulus will energise the global economic recovery,” according to Deepak Jasani, head of retail research, HDFC Securities, “European stocks extended the week’s gains on Wednesday morning, with cyclical sectors leading the advance as the focus turned away from rising bond yields and toward an economic reopening,’’ Jasani said. Experts warned of volatility as stocks may react to any adverse news on the domestic front. States such as Maharashtra have recently reported a spike in coronavirus cases. Rupee gains Meanwhile, in the inter-bank forex market, the rupee tracked the gains in stock prices and rose 65 paise to end at 72.72 against the dollar. Jateen Trivedi, senior research analyst at LKP Securities said the rupee traded strongly on the back of aggressive fund inflows with vaccination rollouts for the people in the age group of 45-plus giving confidence to investors. “Going ahead 72.75-73.25 range can be witnessed.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-120
