05-03-2021||Business||Sensex slumps over 440 points to finish just above 50,000 mark||The BSE gauge Sensex tumbled over 440 points and the NSE Nifty cracked below the psychological 15,000-level on Friday in line with relentless sell-offs in global equities as US bond market turmoil continued to rattle investors. At the closing bell, the Sensex was quoted at 50,405.32, showing a decline of 440.76 points or 0.87 per cent over the previous close. Intra-day, the index swung around 726 points. The NSE barometer Nifty ended lower by 142.65 points or 0.95 per cent at 14,938.10. On the Sensex chart, IndusInd Bank, SBI, Dr Reddy's, NTPC, ICICI Bank, HCL Tech and Bajaj FinServ emerged as major laggards. On the other hand, ONGC, Maruti, Kotak Bank, Nestle and Ultratech Cement were among gainers. Of the Sensex shares, 21 ended with losses. Elsewhere in Asia, equity markets continued their decline on Friday after a retreat on Wall Street amid concerns that rising bond yields will lead to inflationary pressure. "Domestic equities corrected for second consecutive day as rise in 10-Year USA Treasury yields and commentary from Federal Reserve chairman on rising bond yields weighed on investors' sentiments. Barring FMCG, all key sectoral indices witnessed sharp pullback with metals and PSU bank indices witnessing steeper correction in the range of 3-4 per cent, said Binod Modi, Head - Strategy at Reliance Securities. Clearly, rising bond yield fear, which appeared to have softened last week, has come to the fore again with back-to-back sharp rise in USA treasury yields, he said, adding that a higher bond yield reduces future earnings or cash flow projections and therefore premium valuations of equities become doubtful. Foreign investors had offloaded equities worth Rs 223.11 crore on a net basis in Indian capital markets on Thursday, according to exchange data. On the forex market front, the rupee closed 19 paise lower at 73.02 against the US dollar. Global crude oil benchmark Brent was trading 1.26 per cent higher at USD 68.11 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-118
05-03-2021||Business||PLI scheme to boost manufacturing & exports, asserts Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday said production linked incentive (PLI) scheme, which is aimed at boosting domestic manufacturing and exports, is expected to increase the country's production by USD 520 billion in the next five years. Addressing a webinar, Modi said the government is continuously carrying out reforms to boost domestic manufacturing. In this year's Budget, about Rs 2 lakh crore was earmarked for the PLI scheme for the next five years and "there is an expectation that the scheme would result in increasing the production by about USD 520 billion in the next five years", he said. He added that there is also an expectation that the current workforce in the sectors, which will avail the benefits of the PLI scheme, will be doubled and job creation will also increase. The Prime Minister said the government is working to reduce compliance burden, further improve ease of doing business and cut down logistics costs for the industry. "PLI scheme would boost manufacturing in sectors from telecom to auto to pharma. PLI is aimed at expanding manufacturing and boosting exports," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-118
05-03-2021||Business||Sensex slumps over 440 points in early trade||The BSE benchmark Sensex tumbled over 440 points and the NSE Nifty cracked below the key 15,000-level in early trade on Friday in line with a slump in other Asian markets as US bond market turmoil continued to fan investor worries globally. The BSE gauge Sensex was trading at 50,405.99, showing a drop of 440.09 points or 0.87 per cent in the opening session. Similarly, the NSE barometer Nifty was quoted lower by 124.75 points or 0.83 per cent at 14,956. On the Sensex chart, IndusInd Bank, ICICI Bank, SBI, PowerGrid and HDFC Bank emerged as major laggards -- dropping as much as 3 per cent. Of the Sensex shares, 21 traded in the red. Elsewhere in Asia, equity markets continued their decline on Friday following a retreat on Wall Street amid concerns over rising yields in bond markets. "The 'bond bears vs equity bulls' game continues in the US market with similar reverberations in other developed and emerging markets. The highly valued Nasdaq appears to be in a short-phase of reversion to mean, having declined 10 per cent from record highs. "The US 10-year yield has again spiked to 1.575 per cent giving further ammunition to bond bears," said V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services. Back home, both Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) and Domestic institutional investors (DIIs) turned sellers on Thursday, impacting market sentiments, he added. On Thursday, the Sensex had shed 598.57 points or 1.16 per cent, and the Nifty had lost 164.85 points or 1.08 per cent. Foreign investors had offloaded equities worth Rs 223.11 crore on a net basis in Indian capital markets on Thursday, according to exchange data. Meanwhile, global crude oil benchmark Brent was trading 0.77 per cent higher at USD 64.32 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-118
05-03-2021||Business||Wipro acquires London-based Capco for $1.45 billion||Wipro is acquiring London-based Capco (Capital Markets Company) for $1.45 billion in cash. Capco is a global management and technology consultancy providing digital, consulting and technology services to financial institutions in the Americas, Europe and the Asia Pacific. For Bangalore-based Wipro, the acquisition will strengthen its position in the crucial banking, financial services & insurance (BFSI) vertical. The transaction is expected to be completed during the quarter ending June 30, 2021, subject to requisite regulatory approvals and customary closing conditions. It will be financed through a mix of internal cash and debt. Capco, which posted revenues of over $700 million in 2020, has more than 5,000 employees across the globe which includes the US, UK, France, Germany, Poland, Slovakia, Austria, Poland, Switzerland, Brazil, India, Singapore, Malaysia and Hong Kong. In a regulatory filing after market hours, Wipro said the acquisition will provide access to marquee BFSI clients and create a large global financial services practice for the company with a strong consulting footprint. According to Wipro, the acquisition will lead to a global financial services business of $3.2 billion from the current $2.5 billion with strong consulting & business transformation footprint. The combination of Capco’s consulting led expertise and Wipro’s technology offerings would position them well for large-scale transformation deals. Domestic IT services firms such as Wipro have been witnessing positive growth since the onset of the pandemic as clients across industries have opted for digital transformation. For the December quarter of 2020, the BFSI segment contributed 30.5 per cent to its IT services revenues. During this period, the IT service revenues of Wipro stood at $2.07 billion. “We are very excited to welcome Capco’s admirable leadership team and employees, and global clients, to Wipro... Wipro and Capco share complimentary business models and core guiding values, and I am certain that our new Capco colleagues will be proud to call Wipro home,’’ said Thierry Delaporte, CEO and managing director of Wipro. Ahead of the announcement, shares of Wipro ended with gains of 0.78 per cent at Rs 438.85 on Thursday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-118
05-03-2021||Business||Jet Airways must apply afresh for airport slots: DGCA||The winning bidder for Jet Airways will have to apply for slots as there cannot be any deemed approval for the slots, according to submissions by the civil aviation ministry and regulator DGCA. The ministry of civil aviation (MoCA) and DGCA mentioned their stance to the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT), which had on February 25 sought their responses to Jet Airways’ slots issue. NCLT is considering the resolution plan submitted by Kalrock-Jalan Consortium for the airline. The plan has already been approved by the Committee of Creditors (CoC). Jet Airways shuttered operations in April 2019 after running out of cash and is currently undergoing a resolution process under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code. According to the replies submitted by the MoCA and the DGCA on Wednesday, they are not in principle objecting to the resolution plan but there cannot be any deemed approval on the slots. The resolution applicant should apply for slots and accordingly, approvals will be granted, they added. The representative of Jet Airways insisted on the principle of historicity to be followed by the DGCA while granting the slots. NCLT’s Mumbai bench, chaired by Mohammed Ajmal and V. Nallasenapathy, directed the MoCA and the DGCA and to file an affidavit regarding the slots. The matter has been adjourned for next week.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-118
05-03-2021||Business||Infosys to double Canadian workforce to 4,000 by 2023||Infosys on Thursday said it would be bringing 500 jobs to Calgary, Canada over the next three years, doubling its workforce in that country to 4,000 by 2023. Infosys, which is India’s second largest IT services firm, has also been focusing on hiring local talent to serve various geographies. The Bangalore-based company said in the last two years, it has created 2,000 jobs across Toronto, Vancouver, Ottawa, and Montreal, with plans for further expansion across the country. The Calgary expansion is expected to enable Infosys to scale work with clients in western Canada, Pacific North West, and the Central United States across various industries, including natural resources, energy, media, retail, and communications. The latest expansion was announced by Alberta Premier Jason Kenney, Calgary Mayor Naheed Nenshi along with Ravi Kumar, president, Infosys, Mary Moran, president and CEO of Calgary Economic Development, and David Knight Legg, CEO of Invest Alberta Corporation. “We are thrilled to expand our presence in Canada and advance our commitment to hiring top tech talent across major hubs. Calgary is a natural next step as part of our Canadian expansion and represents a significant and promising market for Infosys. The city is home to a thriving talent pool that the Covid-related economic downturn has impacted,” said Ravi Kumar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-118
05-03-2021||Business||US interest rate unlikely to change, says Jerome Powell||US Federal Reserve chairman Jerome Powell on Thursday said US interest rate are unlikely to be raised from its current near zero levels until the US economy recovers to ensure maximum employment and an inflation rate above 2 per cent — the two objectives that form the core of the Fed’s mandate. Since the pandemic broke out, the unemployment rate in the US has hit 4 per cent —which is fairly low — and inflation has ticked in at 1.4 per cent, far adrift from the desired level of 2 per cent. But the bigger problem for the US economy is that 10 million jobs have been lost since the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic last year and these aren’t going to come back soon, Powell said at the Wall Street Journal’s jobs summit on Thursday. The Federal Reserve will meet on March 16 and 17 to decide on rates. Earlier in the day, stock markets around the world, including India, remained under pressure as they waited to hear Powell’s views on the surge in bond yields and the implications that this might have on Fed policy. A rise in US bond yields on Thursday saw the benchmark Sensex halting a three-session winning run. The Sensex hit an intra-day low of 50539.92 — a 904.73 point crash before closing at 50846.08, a fall of 598.57 points or 1.16 per cent. The Nifty closed down 164.85 points or 1.08 per cent at 15080.75.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-118
05-03-2021||Business||Foreign nationals and NRIs stuck in India to submit details of double taxation by March 31||NRIs and foreign nationals stuck in India because of the pandemic and facing double taxation can submit their details to the income tax department by the end of this month. The Central Board of Direct taxes (CBDT) has received various representations requesting for the relaxation in the determination of residential status for 2020-21 from individuals who had come on a visit to India during 2019-20 and intended to leave India but could not do so because of the suspension of international flights. In a circular, the CBDT said if individuals were facing double taxation even after taking into account the relief provided by the Double Taxation Avoidance Agreement (DTAA), they may furnish the specified information electronically by March 31, to the Principal Chief Commissioner of Income-tax (International Taxation). The details have to be submitted in a specified form. Commercial international flights were suspended when the nationwide lockdown was imposed on March 25, 2020. Later, such flights were allowed in a restricted manner under bilateral agreements and the services are yet to resume fully. As a result, many NRIs and foreign nationals had to prolong their stay in India. There were apprehensions that this extended stay could lead to these individuals becoming Indian residents as per Section 6 of the Income Tax Act for taxation purposes. For 2019-20 fiscal, which ended on March 31, 2020, the ministry in May clarified that the period of stay of non-resident Indians and foreign nationals in India during the lockdown period would not be counted for the purpose of determining their residency status for the purpose of taxation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-118
05-03-2021||Business||Opec and allied countries agree to leave most existing oil production cuts in place||Members of oil producer cartel Opec and allied countries have agreed to leave most of their existing oil production cuts in place as the spread of new coronavirus variants prolongs concerns about economic weakness. Opec countries led by Saudi Arabia joined with non-members led by Russia to reach the deal in an online meeting on Thursday. Most significantly, one million barrels per day in voluntary cuts from Saudi Arabia will remain in place at least through April. “We are not in a hurry to bring it forward ... We are cautious,” Saudi Arabia energy minister Prince Abdulaziz bin Salman told a news conference after a meeting of OPEC+ ministers, adding that Saudi Arabia would decide when to end its voluntary cut “at our time, at our convenience”. Oil prices surged back towards their highest levels in more than a year with Brent trading up 5 per cent above $67 per barrel. A surge in crude is likely to make petrol and diesel more costly in India, unless the Modi-government reduces the excise duty on the fuels. With elections to four states round the corner, including Bengal, the ruling BJP at the Centre just may bite the bullet and cut taxes to prevent a voter backlash. India mulls alternatives Oil minister Dharmendra Pradhan said Opec was not reciprocating to India's approval to an output cut by the cartel during the pandemic as a gesture of support to shore  up the sagging oil prices .  He said India would be forced to look for alternative energy if “it is pushed to the wall”. “During May 2020, demand (for fuels) had collapsed in the market and a country like India was supportive of production cuts in those days. The producers, especially Opec, had assured us that by the beginning of 2021, demand will be coming back and production will be as usual,” Pradhan said on Thursday. “But I am sorry to say, the production is yet to be normal by this time, going by what they have promised,” he said, adding, “this is happening when there is a demand normalcy around the globe, especially in Asia.” Case for fuel in GST Petrol price can go down to Rs 75 a litre across the country if brought under the ambit of the GST, but there is a lack of political will, economists at SBI said. Diesel will come at Rs 68 a litre and the revenue loss for the Centre and states will be only Rs 1 lakh crore or 0.4 per cent of GDP, according to the economists . The calculations were made under the assumption of crude prices at $60 a barrel and exchange rate at Rs 73 per dollar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-118
05-03-2021||Business||EPFO retains annual rate of interest on provident fund deposits at 8.5 per cent||Retirement fund body EPFO on Thursday decided to retain the annual rate of interest on provident fund deposits at 8.5 per cent for the current financial year. The central board of trustees, the decision-making body on the rates, met in Srinagar on Thursday, to set the rates for its more than five crore active subscribers. The rates will now be placed before the finance ministry for its approval, following which they will be credited into the account of the subscribers. The rates are the lowest since 2012-13 when the EPFO had also paid out 8.5 per cent.  The EPFO had given 8.75 per cent rate of interest in 2013-14 as well as 2014-15. It had paid higher rates since till 2018-19. (See chart). “The Central Board of Trustees recommended 8.50 per cent annual rate of interest to be credited on EPF accumulations in members' accounts for the financial year 2020-21,” a labour ministry statement said. The ministry said the EPFO decided to liquidate investment in equities. The interest rate is combined income from interest received from debt and the income from equities. “This has enabled EPFO to provide higher return to its subscribers and still allowing EPFO with healthy surplus to act as a cushion for higher return in the future also. There is no over-drawal on EPFO corpus because of  this income distribution.” EPFO trustee K.E. Raghunathan said they would have a surplus of Rs 300 crore on maintaining the interest rate at 8.5 per cent in the last fiscal. “The income for the distribution of interest rate stood at Rs 70,500 crore. The exchange-traded funds purchased in the first two quarters of 2017 are being liquidated, which has led to an income of over Rs 4,000 crore,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-119
05-03-2021||Business||Flipkart exploring going public in the United States||Walmart Inc-owned Indian e-commerce giant Flipkart is exploring going public in the United States through a deal with a blank cheque firm, although a traditional stock market listing is much more likely, people familiar with the matter said. The talks for a deal with a special purpose acquisition company (SPAC) are at a very early stage and could fall apart as no plans have been finalised yet, said the people, who declined to be named as the information is confidential. A growing number of Indian startups are considering the SPAC route to public markets as it involves less regulatory scrutiny and gives companies more certainty over the valuation that will be attained and the funds that will be raised. India’s largest renewable energy firm ReNew Power last month struck a deal with a blank cheque company to go public in the United States, while SoftBank-backed online grocery startup Grofers has also held talks with SPACs. At least a dozen more Indian tech and internet startups are expected to choose that route to the public markets over the next six to 12 months, investment bankers have told Reuters. Reuters first reported in September that Bangalore-based Flipkart was preparing for an initial public offering overseas as early as 2021, which could value the firm at as much as $50 billion. Flipkart has already started talks with investment banks for its listing plans, the sources said. Flipkart and Walmart did not immediately respond to Reuters requests for comment. Bloomberg reported Flipkart’s latest plans earlier on Thursday. Merging with SPACs, which are shell companies that raise money from public investors intending to acquire a business within two years, will allow Walmart to take its India unit to market at a faster pace than the usual IPO route. Flipkart, which is battling with e-commerce arch-rival Amazon.com Inc and Mukesh Ambani’s retail venture for market share in India, started operations in 2007 and now sells 80 million products on its platforms. Walmart acquired a majority stake in Flipkart in a $16 billion deal in 2018. Earlier in the week, Flipkart said it plans to expand its grocery services to more than 70 cities in the next six months as the Walmart-owned company looks to cash in on the burgeoning e-grocery segment in the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-119
05-03-2021||Business||ArcelorMittal Nippon Steel India to set up 12-million tonne plant in Odisha||ArcelorMittal Nippon Steel (AM/NS) India has reached an understanding with the Odisha government to set up a 12-million tonne plant in the state at an investment of Rs 50,000 crore, as the world’s largest steelmaker makes a fresh attempt to set up a greenfield unit in India. Lakshmi Niwas Mittal, chairman of ArcelorMittal, met Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Thursday in Bhubaneswar where a memorandum of understanding was signed between AMNS India and the state government for the proposed integrated plant. Before acquiring Essar Steel in partnership with Nippon Steel in December 2019 and establishing a meaningful presence in the fast growing Indian market, ArcelorMittal had signed at least three MoUs with as many state governments in the last one-and-half decades, including with Odisha. In 2005, ArcelorMittal had signed an MoU with the Jharkhand government, followed by one with Odisha in 2006 and Karnataka in 2010. None of the projects ever materialised and the company pulled out of Odisha in 2013. Following the acquisition of Essar for Rs 42,000 crore, AMNS — where ArcelorMittal has 60 per cent and Nippon Steel of Japan has 40 per cent — established a presence in Odisha where it operates an iron ore beneficiation plant at Keonjhar district and a pellet plant at Paradip. The capacity of the pellet plant has now been doubled to 12 million tonnes with Rs 2,000 crore investment. Corporate sources said the new proposal would be contingent upon several pre-conditions, including making provisions for land and iron ore mines. The land identified for AMNS is situated at Kendrapara district, about 100 kilometre from the capital Bhubaneswar. The land parcel was earlier earmarked for a similar sized steel plant proposed by Korean behemoth Posco in 2005. It never saw the light of the day, mostly because of local protests over land acquisition. After the project was scrapped, the land is now being carved out between two prospective investors, JSW Steel and AMNS India. Before coming to Odisha, Mittal, who is now the executive chairman of ArcelorMittal, had meetings with Prime Minister Narendra Modi and steel and petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan in Delhi. A prominent face of the BJP in Odisha, Pradhan is learnt to be keen to make this project happen in the state. In January, Pradhan had visited the AMNS plant at Gujarat’s Hazira and egged the management to explore a new plant in his home state Odisha, where Patnaik’s Biju Janata Dal (BJD) is in power. Mittal is expected to visit Gujarat in coming days and meet chief minister Vijay Rupani, who is recovering from Covid-19. Aditya Mittal, CEO of ArcelorMittal and chairman of the board of AMNS India, had come to Delhi with his father but did not travel further to Bhubaneswar. Meanwhile, the Odisha  government on Wednesday cancelled a memorandum of understanding (MoU) signed with aluminium major Vedanta for the establishment of a 500-bed teaching hospital at Bhawanipatna, the district headquarters of Kalahandi district. Citing inordinate delay in execution of the teaching -hospital work by the aluminium major, the government cancelled the agreement with immediate effect after careful consideration, a notification said. The state government on March 27, 2018 had signed an MoU with Vedanta for setting up of the teaching hospital for the medical college with an investment of Rs 100 crore at Bhawanipatna.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-119
