06-03-2021||Business||Crude price jumps to highest level after Opec and allies hold cuts||Crude prices jumped to their highest levels in more than a year after Opec and its allies agreed to extend most of the oil output cuts till April stating the demand recovery from the coronavirus pandemic was still fragile despite a recent price rally. Brent crude on Friday was ruling at almost $69 a barrel nearly 3.5 per cent higher than Thursday’s close. Goldman Sachs has now forecast crude to rise to $80 per barrel by September. The analysts at Goldman said Opec was very conservative in their demand estimates and a future ramp-up in production was likely to lag actual demand. All this does not augur well for the Indian economy where petrol prices are simmering at around Rs 100-per-litre level in some parts of the country while rising diesel prices are likely to trigger an inflationary impact on the economy. Saudi Aramco CEO Amir Nasser said at the CERAWeek conference that demand was expected to improve in just a few short months, with demand from China, east Asia, and India creating most of the increase. “Current demand in the market is about 94m bbl/day, our expectation by next year will be about 99m bbl/day,” Nasser said, adding that there was a good case for oil demand optimism. Opec’s leader Saudi Arabia on Thursday said it would extend its voluntary oil output cut of 1 million barrels per day (bpd) and would decide in the coming months when to gradually phase it out. Opec+ had cut output by a record 9.7 million bpd last year as demand collapsed during the pandemic. As of March, it is still withholding about 7 million bpd, or 7 per cent of world demand. The voluntary Saudi cut brings the total to about 8 million bpd. Under Thursday's deal, Russia was allowed to raise output by 130,000 bpd in April and Kazakhstan by another 20,000 bpd to meet domestic needs. “Everybody (else) is going to maintain the freeze,” Saudi energy minister Prince Abdulaziz bin Salman told a news conference to outline the deal. With inputs from Reuters||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-117
06-03-2021||Business||Centre under pressure to cut duties after Opec’s output cut decision||The Modi government is coming under increasing pressure to cut duties after Opec and allies decided to play hardball on output cuts. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Thursday admitted there was a case for tax cuts to ease the burden on consumers but said the states should also cut their levies. With political parties sounding the poll bugle, the ruling BJP runs the risk of being labelled insensitive to the plight of the common man. Oil minister Dharmendra Pradhan told Reuters Opec’s decision would undermine consumption-led recovery and hurt consumers. Earlier, Saudi oil minister energy minister Abdulaziz bin Salman fobbed off Pradhan's repeated pleas for an output hike by Opec. He said New Delhi should take some of the crude out of storage that they had purchased at very cheap rates last year. “With regard to India, very simple. I would ask my friend (Pradhan) that he withdraw some of the cheap oil that they bought in April, May and June,” bin Salman said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-117
06-03-2021||Business||Centre likely to challenge $1.4 billion arbitration award to Cairn Energy||The Modi government is likely to challenge the $1.4 billion arbitration award to Cairn Energy. “Where I find arbitration award questioning India’s sovereign authority to tax... if there is a question about the sovereign right to tax, I will appeal, it’s my duty to appeal,” finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman told reporters on the Cairn Energy award. Last year, the government lost two high-profile arbitrations over the levy of taxes on British firms Cairn and Vodafone, using legislation that gave it the power to levy taxes with retrospective effect. “We have made our position clear on retrospective taxation. We have repeated it in 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017, 2019, 2020, till now. I don’t see any lack of clarity,” she said, referring to the government’s stand of not raising any new tax demand using the 2012 legislation. She did not make any direct reference to appealing against the Cairn award. While the government has already challenged in a Singapore court an international arbitration tribunal verdict that overturned its demand for Rs 22,100 crore in back taxes from Vodafone Group Plc, it hasn't yet done so against a December 21 award asking India to return the value of shares seized and sold, dividend confiscated and tax refund stopped to adjust a Rs 10,247 crore tax demand on Cairn. The Centre has time till March 21 to challenge the award. The statement comes days after her ministry officials held three rounds of talks with Cairn executives, including CEO Simon Thomson to find a solution. The statement indicates that the possibility of an alternative solution to the issue that had seemed as a possibility has fizzled out.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-117
06-03-2021||Business||Sensex falls over 440 points as rising US bond yields rattle global investors||The benchmark BSE Sensex tumbled over 440 points and the NSE Nifty cracked below the psychological 15000-level on Friday because of profit booking in financials and IT stocks in line with relentless sell-offs in global equities as the US bond market turmoil continued to rattle investors. The 30-share BSE barometer declined 440.76 points or 0.87 per cent to close at 50405.32, continuing its falling trend for the second day due to concerns over bond yields. Intra-day, the index swung around 726 points. The NSE barometer Nifty ended lower by 142.65 points or 0.95 per cent at 14938.10. “Domestic equities corrected for the second consecutive day as a rise in 10-year USA Treasury yields and commentary from Federal Reserve chairman on rising bond yields weighed on investors’ sentiments. Barring FMCG, all key sectoral indices witnessed sharp pullback with metals and PSU bank indices witnessing steeper correction in the range of 3-4 per cent,” said Binod Modi, head - strategy at Reliance Securities. Over the last two sessions, the Sensex has shed 1039.33 points or 2.02 per cent and the Nifty has lost 307.5 points or 2.01 per cent. However, on a weekly basis, the Sensex gained 1305.33 points or 2.65 per cent and the Nifty added 408.95 points or 2.81 per cent. On the Sensex chart, IndusInd Bank, SBI, Dr Reddy’s, NTPC, ICICI Bank, HCL Tech and Bajaj FinServ emerged as major laggards.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-117
06-03-2021||Business||Consortium of lenders agree to close bankruptcy process of Bhushan Power & Steel Ltd||A consortium of lenders has agreed to close the bankruptcy process of beleaguered Bhushan Power & Steel Ltd by accepting a conditional proposal of JSW Steel. Lenders voted with 97 per cent majority to accept a Rs 19,350-crore upfront payout from the Sajjan Jindal-led company on the condition of reversing the payment in case of an adverse order from the Supreme Court. The company indicated it would like to conclude the deal within March, racing to beat the fiscal year deadline and take control of the assets, including a large downstream unit in Serampore. The JSW offer represents a 58.97 per cent haircut for the financial creditors that had a combined exposure of Rs 47,158 crore to BPSL, which was promoted by Sanjay Singhal and his family, before the company went into bankruptcy proceedings. BPSL is one of 12 large sticky assets which were mandated to the corporate insolvency resolution process by the RBI. Some of the other prominent names that found buyers are Essar Steel, Bhushan Steel, Electrosteel Steels, Monnet Ispat and Alok Industries. BPSL has a 2.8 million tonne steel plant in Odisha, a power plant and several downstream units across north India. The transaction will pave the way for JSW Steel to mark its manufacturing presence in eastern India, which has so far been the strongholds of Tata Steel and SAIL. There was an urgency from the lenders to close the deal within this fiscal as they would be able to write back some of the exposures in BPSL. JSW also agreed to play ball, given that steel prices, margin and demand continue to remain robust. The National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) approved JSW’s resolution plan, overcoming initial challenges from Tata Steel and Liberty of the UK, in September 2019. But the pitch was queered by the enforcement directorate (ED), an arm of the finance ministry, which attached assets worth Rs 4,025.23 crore under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act of BPSL, following on a case against the erstwhile promoter. Even though the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal set aside the ED’s attachment, the latter has moved the apex court challenging the decision. ED also contended that JSW would not be able to take refuge under Section 32A of the bankruptcy code. ED argued before the SC that JSW was a ‘related party’ to BPSL as they were JV partners for a coal block in 2008. JSW contested the claim countering that the JV was guided by the policy of the day for the allocation of blocks. Apart from ED, Sanjay Singhal has also contested JSW’s plan in the SC. JSW has sought an assurance from the lenders that it would only pay up if the lenders promised to return the funds in case of an adverse judgment. SBI will be the biggest beneficiary having Rs 9,825.67 crore admitted claim, followed by PNB’s Rs 4,399 crore. An asset reconstruction firm has debt of Rs 5,275 crore, while Canara and Allahabad Bank have Rs 2,244 crore and Rs 2,130 crore, respectively.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-117
06-03-2021||Business||Max group’s Analjit Singh receives over 1.67 lakh shares of three group companies||Max group’s Analjit Singh has received over 1.67 lakh shares of three group companies as a gift from his son Veer Singh who has exited his personal holdings in Max Ventures, Max India and Max Financial Services, according to exchange filings on Thursday. Veer Singh has gifted 1,00,000 shares held by him in Max Financial Services; 47,637 shares in Max Ventures and 20,000 shares in Max India Ltd without any consideration on March 2, 2021, to his father Analjit Singh, according to separate exchange filings from these entities. With this, Veer Singh will not hold any shares in these entities. Analjit Singh, Neelu Analjit Singh, Piya Singh, Tara Singh Vachani and Max Ventures Investment Holdings Pvt Ltd constitute the promoter and promoter group shareholders in Max India with a total holding of 40.89 per cent equivalent to 2,19,91,013 shares post the transfer of gift shares to Analjit Singh by Veer Singh.
Similarly, these five entities will together constitute 17.26 per cent holding in Max Financial Services Ltd (MFSL) after the gift of the shares. While these five entities along with Siva Enterprises Pvt Ltd and Ravi Vachani will collectively hold 49.68 per cent as promoter and promoter entities in Max Ventures and Industries Ltd post the gift shares’ transfer to Analjit. MFSL shares closed 0.87 per cent lower at Rs 916.15 apiece on the BSE. Max Ventures ended down 0.33 per cent at Rs 61.20 and Max India closed 3.85 per cent higher at Rs 67.45 apiece.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-117
06-03-2021||Business||ICICI Bank cuts interest rates on home loans to 6.70 per cent||ICICI Bank on Friday has cut interest rates on home loans to 6.70 per cent on a par with market leader SBI, as part of a limited period offer. The second largest private sector lender said the interest rate offering, which is valid till March 31, is the lowest in a decade. Over the last week, there have been a slew of similar announcements by lenders on interest rates which were at a 16-year-low at the systemic level. SBI cut its rate first to 6.70 per cent to best rated borrowers, which was followed up quickly by smaller rival Kotak Mahindra Bank that slashed its rate to 6.65 per cent. Non-bank leader HDFC has also reduced rates. “We see resurgence in demand from consumers, who want to buy homes for their own consumption, in the past few months. We believe that this is an opportune time for an individual to buy his/her dream home, considering the prevailing low interest rates,” ICICI Bank’s head for secured assets, Ravi Narayanan, said.
The new home loan rates are effective from March 5, the bank said, adding borrowers of up to Rs 75 lakh will get credit at 6.70 per cent, while those above that threshold will need to pay 6.75 per cent. In November 2020, the bank had crossed the Rs 2 lakh crore mark in mortgage loan portfolio, becoming the first private sector lender to attain the mark. PNB Housing, Yes Bank tieup PNB Housing Finance on Friday said it has tied up with Yes Bank for a strategic co-lending service that will facilitate retail home loans at competitive rates. PNB Housing and Yes Bank will synergise capabilities to provide an efficient and seamless experience to existing and new retail home loan customers, PNB Housing Finance said in a filing to bourses. This strategic co-lending agreement will offer “convenient and customised retail loans to homebuyers at competitive interest rates”, it added. PNB Housing and Yes Bank will jointly do a due diligence and co-originate the loan at an agreed ratio. PNB Housing will service the customers through the entire loan lifecycle, including sourcing, documentation and collection with an appropriate information sharing arrangement with Yes Bank, the filing said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-118
