07-03-2021||Business||Insurance premium to rise by 15-20% in April||Premium rates for term life insurance policies could go up by 15-20 per cent in April as reinsurers drive a hard bargain with life insurance companies in renewing contracts amid rising risks and losses. Insurance companies have a risk sharing arrangement with re-insurers with the former transferring a part of the risk off its book. Swiss Re, Munich Re, Lloyd’s India, Allianz, AXA are among the key players in the reinsurance market. The price of term life insurance products had gone up in April 2020 and changes in reinsurance rates drove the premium for term policies by 25-30 per cent. The insurance industry is expecting another round of increase next month. The increase will be primarily to cover the rising risks because of the Covid-19 pandemic. Moreover, industry observers point out that high competition among life insurers to boost new business premium and increase market share has resulted in term policies being significantly cheaper in India compared with similar products overseas. “Because of competition over term policies, insurers in India were simply reducing prices to an unrealistic level. When the claims have started happening and reinsurers — many of whom are global players — are losing money, they are insisting on higher rates as no one is willing to take a loss,” said Arvind Kumar Khaitan, managing director of Salasar Services Insurance Brokers Private Ltd. “Covid has hit reinsurers all over the world. It may remain like this for the next 2-3 years,” he said. According to data from insurance regulator Irdai, the total loss of all foreign reinsurance branches was Rs 1,115 crore in 2019-20 against a profit after tax of Rs 10 crore in 2018-19. The incurred claim ratio of reinsurers increased to 98.60 per cent in 2019-20 from 89.51 per cent in 2018-19. The incurred claims ratio in the life segment was a staggering 417.63 per cent in 2019-20 and the pandemic has only heightened the risk profile of the industry and squeezed the bottomline of reinsurers. While the insurance companies remained tight-lipped about the increase, industry sources said that at least two private players may face termination of contracts from a global reinsurer unless the revised prices are accepted. “The prices have to match the mortality experience. Term policies have wafer thin margin and the market is extremely competitive. So the increase is likely to be passed on,” said an industry source. Sources also said the reinsurers are in favour of changes in the policyholder onboarding process. Instead of tele check-ups, reinsurers are insisting on physical check-ups of new policy buyers for better risk selection.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-116
07-03-2021||Business||Boeing CEO receives stock benefits despite refusing bonus||Boeing CEO David Calhoun declined a salary and performance bonus for most of last year but still received stock benefits that pushed the estimated value of his compensation to more than $21 million, according to a regulatory filing on Friday. The aerospace giant struggled last year with the continuing fallout from two deadly crashes involving its 737 Max jetliner and a downturn in demand for planes because of the pandemic. Boeing lost nearly $12 billion and announced plans to cut about 30,000 jobs through layoffs and attrition. Calhoun, who became CEO in January 2020, received $269,231 in salary for the period before he disavowed his salary in March. He also got $289,715 in other compensation, mostly perks such as the use of company planes, retirement benefits and home-security expenses. But most of Calhoun’s compensation — valued by Boeing at more than $20 million — came in the form of stock benefits that will vest in the next few years, assuming he remains CEO. Those grants include $7 million worth of stock for returning the Max to service after it was grounded in 2019, $10 million worth of shares to compensate for pay he left behind at his previous job at The Blackstone Group, and $3.5 million in long-term incentive awards. All would vest over the next three years. Calhoun, 63, was a longtime Boeing board member before being named CEO after the firing of Dennis Muilenburg in December 2019. The Chicago-based company filed its proxy statement ahead of its April 20 annual shareholder meeting, which will be conducted online. Shareholders will elect 10 directors. Pension funds in New York and Colorado are suing current and former board members and executives, including Calhoun and Muilenburg, in a Delaware state court.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-117
07-03-2021||Business||15th Finance Commission chief justifies tax share math||The 15th Finance Commission opted for continuity and predictability and, hence, retained the share of tax devolution to states at 41 per cent of the total pool, its chairman N.K. Singh said on Saturday. At a webinar organised by the Centre for Policy Research (CPR), Singh said each Finance Commission in the past had somewhat increased the total amount of devolution to states, but the 15th Finance Commission weighed all the options considering that the fiscal space of both states and the Centre has shrunk on account of the Covid-19 pandemic. Rajya Sabha MP Sushil Kumar Modi highlighted that the share of the divisible pool is slowly shrinking as the “cess and surcharge” component in the gross tax revenue is increasing. The 15th Finance Commission has recommended that states be given 41 per cent of the divisible tax pool of the Centre during the period 2021-22 to 2025-26, which is at the same level as recommended by the 14th Finance Commission. Finance Commission is a constitutional body that gives suggestions on Centre-state financial relations. According to the commission, the gross tax revenue (GTR) for the five-year period is expected to be Rs 135.2 trillion. Of that, the divisible pool (after deducting cesses and surcharges and cost of collection) is estimated to be Rs 103 trillion. The states’ share at 41 per cent of the divisible pool comes to Rs 42.2 trillion for the 2021-26 period. The report of the 15th Finance Commission was tabled in Parliament on February 2. Singh said each Finance Commission has somewhat increased the total amount of devolution as a percentage of the divisible pool. “We had an option of continuing this trajectory, we had an option of enhancing this devolution to somewhat higher figure. We had the option of somewhat recalibrating downwards looking at the constraints on the fiscal space of the central government. Finance Commission is not an encounter with shock and awe, Finance Commission has a legacy which believes in stability, continuity and predictability. We opted for continuity and predictability,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-117
07-03-2021||Business||M.G. George Muthoot passes away||M.G. George Muthoot, largely credited for making the Muthoot Finance a pan-India and the largest gold loan NBFC, passed away on Friday evening. As a chairman of the company, he played a pivotal role in taking Muthoot Finance to new heights, expanding its reach across the country and even overseas especially to the Middle East. The 71-year-old Muthoot was for long based in Delhi even though his diversified group that runs over 20 businesses from gold loans to securities, realty estate to infrastructure, hospitals to hospitality and education, has its headquarters in Kochi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-117
07-03-2021||Business||Reliance Home Finance Ltd defaults on Rs 40cr loan||Reliance Home Finance Ltd (RHFL) on Saturday said it has defaulted on a loan of over Rs 40 crore from Punjab & Sind Bank even as the company has enough cash and cash equivalent which it cannot use due to a court order. The Anil Ambani-controlled Reliance Capital’s subsidiary defaulted on the loan on February 15, 2021, and the current amount of default is Rs 40 crore alongside an interest of Rs 15 lakh. The company’s total obligation is of Rs 200 crore on a five-year tenure secured term loan at 9.25 per cent per annum from Punjab & Sind Bank, RHFL said in a regulatory filing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-117
