08-03-2021||Business||Sensex, Nifty eke out gains to close marginally higher||Benchmark indices Sensex and Nifty eke out gains on Monday after two sessions of decline as investors snapped up energy, IT and pharma shares. After fighting multiple bouts of volatility during the session, the BSE gauge Sensex settled 35.75 points or 0.07 per cent higher at 50,441.07. Intraday, the index rose as much as 667 points, but pared most of its gains tracking weakness in global markets. The NSE Nifty ended with a gain of 18.10 points or 0.12 per cent at 14,956.20. On the Sensex chart, L&T, ONGC, HCL Tech, NTPC, Axis Bank and Infosys were major gainers. On the other hand, Bajaj Finance, IndusInd Bank, UltraTech Cement, Bajaj Auto and HDFC twins emerged as top laggards. In other Asian markets, equities suffered losses amid sustained volatility in view of concerns over rising bond yields. Though, Asian shares had started the session on high, cheering the US Senate passing a USD 1.9 trillion stimulus bill for Covid-19 relief package. Investor nerves also calmed a bit after the US labour department reported stronger-than-expected jobs data for February. Meanwhile, global crude oil prices climbed after Saudi Arabia reported drone attack on its oil facilities. Foreign investors had offloaded equities worth Rs 2,014.16 crore on a net basis in Indian capital markets on Friday, according to exchange data. On the forex market front, the rupee tumbled 23 paise to close at 73.25 against the US dollar on Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-115
08-03-2021||Business||Sensex rebounds over 270 points in early trade||The BSE gauge Sensex rallied over 270 points and the NSE Nifty reclaimed the key 15,000-level in early trade on Monday, tracking a robust recovery in global shares. The 30-share Sensex was trading at 50,679.19, showing a rise of 273.87 points or 0.54 per cent. Likewise, the broader Nifty was quoted at 15,015.05, up 76.95 points or 0.52 per cent. On the Sensex chart, ONGC, NTPC, Axis Bank, M&M, HDFC Bank and SBI were major gainers climbing as much as 4.3 per cent. Of the Sensex shares, 21 traded in the green. In other Asian markets, equities staged a strong recovery after witnessing panic sell-offs for a couple of sessions as investors cheered the US Senate passing a USD 1.9 trillion stimulus bill for COVID-19 relief package. Investor worries also subsided after the rise in bond yields steadied and the US labour department reported stronger-than-expected jobs data for February. Meanwhile, global crude oil benchmark Brent Futures rose 1.49 per cent to USD 70.73 per barrel. On Friday, the Sensex had dropped by 440.76 points or 0.87 per cent, and the Nifty had ended lower by 142.65 points or 0.95 per cent. On a weekly basis, however, the Sensex had gained 1,305.33 points or 2.65 per cent and the Nifty added 408.95 points or 2.81 per cent. Foreign investors offloaded equities worth Rs 2,014.16 crore on a net basis in Indian capital markets on Friday, according to exchange data.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-116
08-03-2021||Business||Government proposes to increase authorised capital of LIC to Rs 25,000 crore||The government has proposed to significantly increase the authorised capital of Life Insurance Corporation of India (LIC) to Rs 25,000 crore to facilitate its listing slated for the next fiscal. At present, the paid-up capital of the life insurance company with over 29 crore policies is Rs 100 crore. Starting with an initial capital of Rs 5 crore in 1956, LIC has an asset base of Rs 32 lakh crore. The authorised share capital of LIC shall be Rs 25,000 crore divided into 2,500 crore shares of Rs 10 each, as per the amendments proposed in the Life Insurance Corporation Act, 1956. The amendments proposed as part of Finance Bill 2021 will lead to the setting up of a board with independent directors in line with listing obligations. According to one of the 27 proposed amendments for the selloff, the central government will hold at least 75 per cent in LIC for the first five years post the IPO, and subsequently hold at least 51 per cent at all times after five years of the float. Up to 10 per cent of the LIC IPO issue size would be reserved for policyholders, minister of state for finance Anurag Thakur had said last month. The government will remain the majority shareholder and will continue to retain management control, safeguarding the interest of policyholders, he had said. In her budget speech for 2021, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said the initial public offering (IPO) of LIC would be launched in the next financial year. At present, the government owns a 100 per cent stake in LIC. Once listed, it is likely to have an estimated valuation of Rs 8-10 lakh crore. The department of investment and public asset management (Dipam), which manages the government’s equity holdings in state-owned companies, has already selected actuarial firm Milliman Advisors for ascertaining the embedded value of LIC to meet the government’s disinvestment target. Deloitte and SBI Caps have been appointed as pre-IPO transaction advisors. The budget for 2021-22 has set a disinvestment target of Rs 1.75 lakh crore, higher than the Rs 32,000 crore estimated to be garnered in the current fiscal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-116
08-03-2021||Business||JSW Steel set for top spot in capacity following acquisition of Bhushan Power & Steel Ltd||Sajjan Jindal’s JSW is set to become the largest and most geographically diverse steel maker in India following the completion of the acquisition of Bhushan Power & Steel Ltd (BPSL). The company will have an installed capacity of 27 million tonnes (mt) by the next fiscal when the 5mt expansion at Dolvi, Maharashtra, is complete and it takes over BPSL’s 2.8mt plant in Odisha. As of now, it is marginally behind Tata Steel and public sector Steel Authority of India Ltd (SAIL) in the domestic market, which have 20.6mt and19.63mt capacities, respectively. “We will be the largest steelmaker in India by far, way ahead of competition,” a JSW official said over the weekend, two days after the lenders of BPSL agreed to the conditional closure of the ongoing bankruptcy process. While JSW will take a decisive lead, assuming there will be no adverse order from the top court overturning the acquisition — Tata Steel is not idling either. After the pause on the 5mt expansion at Kalinganagar following the outbreak of the pandemic, the company has restarted work at the plant. While it may play catch up in the domestic market in the short term, the Tatas would continue to remain the largest steelmaker out of India on a global scale, with a 10mt installed capacity in Europe. Diverse presence While the number game hots up at the top half of the table, JSW would surely be the most diversely located company in India, having integrated manufacturing bases in south, north and now in the east with BPSL. Steel mills have traditionally come up in the eastern part of India because of their proximity to key raw materials — iron ore and coal. Older players such Tatas and SAIL have their production bases consolidated in the east compared with relatively new entrants such as JSW, Ispat and Essar, who chose to set up plants nearer to the consumption centres. Five plants of SAIL are located in Bengal, Jharkhand, Odisha and Chattisgarh whereas Tata Steel’s three plants are spread across Odisha and Jharkhand. In contrast, JSW chose the iron ore belt of Karnataka to build the Vijaynagar plant, while Essar and Ispat set up units in Hazira, Gujarat and Maharashtra in western India. JSW entered the western market after the acquisition of Ispat in 2013 and in 2019. ArcelorMittal and Nippon Steel acquired Essar Steel from a bankruptcy court in 2019. After the BPSL acquisition, JSW would be the only steelmaker which would be close to the markets as well as raw material source, offering it flexibility in procurement and sale. In 2020, the company had acquired five iron ore mines in Odisha and the BPSL plant is located in close proximity. “It (JSW) should be able to reduce costs by servicing markets from its local plants,” said Jayanta Roy, senior vice-president, corporate sector ratings of Icra.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-116
08-03-2021||Business||Junk your old car, get 5 per cent rebate from automakers: Nitin Gadkari||There is good news for consumers who are going to junk their old vehicles and buy a new one under the vehicle scrapping policy as automakers will give about 5 per cent rebate on the new purchase, Union minister Nitin Gadkari has said. The voluntary vehicle scrapping policy announced in the Union budget for 2021-22 provides for fitness test after 20 years for personal vehicles while commercial vehicles would require it after the completion of 15 years. “Automobile manufacturers will provide about 5 per cent rebate on new car purchases” to the consumers in lieu of scrapping of the old, Union road transport, highways and MSME minister Gakdari said. “There are four major components of the policy... Apart from rebate, there are provisions of green taxes and other levies on old polluting vehicles. These will be required to undergo mandatory fitness and pollution tests in automated facilities. For this automated fitness centres would be required throughout in the country and we are working in that direction,” Gadkari said. Automated fitness tests will be set up under the public-private partnership (PPP) mode while the government will assist private partners and state governments for scrapping centres, he said. Driving such vehicles that fail to pass automated tests will attract huge penalties and also be impounded, the minister said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-116
08-03-2021||Business||Ujjivan Small Finance Bank aims to turn into universal bank||Ujjivan Small Finance Bank is aiming for an equal mix between its microfinance and non-microfinance businesses over the next 3-4 years. The bank, which will complete five years in 2022, has its eye on the conversion to a universal bank. In the quarter ended December 30, 2020, micro banking constituted 73.2 per cent of the gross advances and includes group loans, individual micro loans and agri and allied loans. The remaining non-microbanking business included advances to micro and small enterprises, affordable housing and institutional lending. “The non-MFI side of business is expected to grow at a faster pace. Our road map is that we want to be 50 per cent MFI and 50 per cent non-MFI in the next 3-4 years,” said Nitin Chugh, MD & CEO, Ujjivan Small Finance Bank. “We want to grow the affordable housing business in proportion to the demand that we can cater to. Vehicle finance and personal loans are at an early stage and next year our endeavour would be to scale them up. We are piloting gold loans. Credit card is also something that we want to introduce next fiscal,” Chugh said. On the liability side, he said the thrust on retail deposits, the proportion of which is expected to grow to 75-80 per cent in 3-4 years. “We have replaced a lot of bulk deposits with retail deposits and in the process we brought about some efficiency in our cost of funds as well,” Chugh said. Bengal recovery The collection efficiency of Ujjivan Small Finance Bank in Bengal had declined to 74 per cent in September 2020 because of the factors associated with the lockdown such as the closure of suburban trains along with the impact of Cyclone Amphan. “Suburban trains only started working from the first week of November. So, there was fairly reduced mobility from suburban Calcutta and our MFI customers were impacted. ” The collection efficiency was lagging behind but it has improved quickly and by December has reached 92 per cent,” Chugh said. Reverse merger The bank would initiate a reverse merger process with its holding company once it completes five years. The holding company — Ujjivan Financial Services Limited — is a listed entity and currently holds 83.3 per cent stake in the bank. “It is our desire at some point to convert to a universal bank. But, the first thing that we are keen to go through is the reverse merger,” Chugh said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-116
08-03-2021||Business||Calcutta makes rapid strides in replacing diesel public buses with electric ones||The city has made rapid strides in its programme to replace its diesel driven public buses with electric ones. A global study says Calcutta has electrified 4.7 per cent of its buses and is ranked third after Shanghai which has electrified its entire fleet and Santiago which has electrified 8 per cent of its fleet. Calcutta is followed by London (2.2 per cent), Izmir in Turkey (1.3 per cent). In terms of the actual number of buses electrified, the city is fourth at 80 buses below Shenzen, Santiago at 776 buses and London 376.
Electrification of buses, a mass rapid transport, is one of the key solutions to the common urban problems of pollution and congestion. Rapid advances in technology, with electric buses improving range, power and reliability are encouraging cities around the world to electrify their buses. In the next five years, almost a million electric buses are expected to be on the road, according to the 2021 edition of EV City Casebook, published by Urban Foresight, a smart city consultancy group, IEA, an energy research organisation, Electric Vehicles Initiative, and HEV TCP (Hybrid and Electric Vehicle Technology Collaboration Programme), a multi-government forum. While the number of registered e-buses globally stood at 136,000 in 2019, it was 425,000 in 2020 and is projected to be 835,200 by 2026. The market is still relatively immature and there are technical and operational challenges, such as the capital cost of the buses. “Many cities have invested in legacy diesel buses, and have a mix of public and private bus providers,” said Tata Energy Research Institute fellow Alekhya Datta who took part in the case study. Talking about the Calcutta experience, Datta said: “The city is now also taking a lead role to introduce electric buses for public transport. With a complex mix of existing transport systems, the city was keen to ensure that new forms of transport integrated with old." “So these routes were designed to connect with ferries, trams and passenger rail to create seamless multi-modal transportation in the city – ultimately leading to faster uptake by the public.” Calcutta will further augment its e-bus fleet by driving up its intake further with future contracts issued by the city’s transport authority requiring providers to use electric or CNG buses.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-116
08-03-2021||Business||Cairn threatens action to recover $1.4 billion from Indian govt||British oil firm Cairn Energy plc on Sunday said its shareholders, including top financial institutions of the world, expect the use of the company’s “strong powers of enforcement” to recover $1.4 billion from the Indian government should it not keep its word of honouring international arbitration tribunal awards on retrospective taxes. Cairn has already moved courts in the US, the UK, the Netherlands, Canada, France, Singapore, Japan, UAE and Cayman Islands to get the December 21 international arbitration tribunal award registered and recognised — the first step before it can seek seizure of the Indian government’s assets such as bank accounts, payments to state-owned entities, aeroplanes and ships in those jurisdictions, in case New Delhi does not return the value of the shares seized and sold, dividend confiscated and tax refund stopped to adjust a Rs 10,247-crore tax demand raised using retrospective legislation. Cairn CEO Simon Thomson, who last month met top finance ministry officials for three straight days over the issue, said the Indian government should keep its word on honouring arbitration awards and return the $1.4-billion that an international arbitration tribunal has ordered rescinding a retrospective tax demand. “Our shareholders are watching,” he said in a Twitter post. “They expect India to honour its obligations and to quickly bring this matter to a conclusion and if India do not do that, and if India delay, then our shareholders expect us to pursue our strong powers of enforcement which we have to do”. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had on March 5 indicated the government’s intent to appeal against the award when she said it is her “duty” to appeal in cases where the nation’s sovereign authority to tax is questioned. Interestingly, the December 21 arbitration award specifically made clear that the basis of the judgment was not a challenge to the 2012 law, which gave the government powers to tax deals retrospectively, or India's sovereign right to tax. “The issue at stake is thus not a matter of domestic tax law; it is rather whether the fiscal measures taken by the State, valid or not under its own tax laws, violate international law,” the tribunal had said. After losing a Supreme Court case against levying tax on capital gains made in the 2007 sale by Hutchison of its India business to Vodafone for $11.2 billion, the government had in 2012 enacted legislation that gave it powers to tax such deals retrospectively. Thereafter the tax department said Vodafone should have withheld tax on the deal and issued a notice seeking Rs 11,218 crore, later augmented by Rs 7,900 crore in penalties. In January 2014, the department assessed that Cairn too made an alleged capital gain on reorganising its India business prior to an IPO in 2006-07 and sought Rs 10,247 crore in taxes. But unlike Vodafone where no enforcement action was taken, it seized and sold Cairn’s residual stake in the India unit, confiscated dividends due from such holding, and stopped tax refund due to it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-116
08-03-2021||Business||States expected to rake up shortfall in payments at the  GST Council meet||The states are expected to rake up the issue of  a huge shortfall in GST payments till the first quarter of 2022-23 at the  GST Council meet scheduled this  month. The council may not take a call on the rationalisation of tax slabs or address the inverted duty structure on sectors such as textiles, footwear, and fertilisers. Rather, the issue of compensation is expected to be raised by the states as the 15th Finance Commission has estimated the shortfall in the payout to them will be in the order of Rs 7.1 lakh crore for the period April 2020 to June 2022. A senior finance ministry official said the council may not take a call on these issues as the model code of conduct was in force because of the assembly polls in five states. Also, the council would like the revenue to stabilise after the pandemic and take an informed decision. At the upcoming meeting — the dates are yet to be finalised — the GST Council is likely to stick to only administrative matters and discuss the recommendations of various committees, the official added. Sources said the GST compensation cess fund will not be sufficient to meet the obligation of the Centre to the states. The Council has to decide whether or not to extend the current arrangement to make up the shortfall with debt. “From our projections of collections from GST compensation cess, it turns out that the compensation cess fund will have an amount of only Rs. 2.25 lakh crore by that time, from the collections of 2020-21 to Q1 2022-23,” the Finance Commission report said. The Commission indicated “the shortfall in the requirements of compensation till Q1 2022-23 will be met by extending the levy of GST compensation cess till the year 2025-26. In the interim, the transitional requirements of liquidity of the states could be met from borrowings, either by the Union or by the States.” “We are not including or quantifying the debt implications of the borrowings under the proposals. The fiscal deficit and debt path worked out by us excludes the borrowing that the States may do under any arrangement worked out between them and the Union, consequent upon decisions in the GST Council,” it added. In October, the GST Council extended the compensation cess beyond June 2022, though it did not specify how long it will continue after the transition period of five years. The commission has recommended a three-slab structure for GST. The government wants to merge the 12-per-cent- and the 18-per-cent slabs to a middle point of around 15 per cent for long, but has been waiting for the revenue to stabilise. The Opposition has criticised the Modi government for a complicated GST structure as it has four slabs of 5 per cent, 12 per cent, 18 per cent and 28 per cent. Added to that, the government charges a cess on demerit and luxury products that come under the 28-per-cent-bracket. Recently, the Commission has recommended merging the 12-per-cent and 18-per-cent slabs. The Commission chaired by N.K. Singh has suggested the rationalisation of the GST into a three-rate structure, comprising a 5 per cent merit rate, the 28-30 per cent de-merit rate and the rate after the merger of the 12-per-cent and 18-per-cent slabs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-116
08-03-2021||Business||Nurture the investor in you||The world is full of exemplary performances and accolades for women in every field they have set foot in. However, when it comes to investing and managing finances, research has shown that women keep more than 70 per cent of their assets in cash. This is, however, fast changing and a taxpayer platform in the country revealed that women are investing 12.7 per cent more than their male counterparts. Research by Merrill Lynch shows that 41 per cent of women are more inclined to invest now compared to earlier. Why invest? Financial independence and security mean being able to pay for the way you want to live without having to work till the end of your life or rely on others for it. In other words, it means being free and self-reliant.
Financial stability: As a woman, it is important to achieve a sense of financial independence. The gender pay gap, the pink tax and many other prejudices have historically created a discrepancy between the financial situation of women and men. Investing is, therefore, one of the best ways to ensure that one is as financially secure as their male counterparts. It is important to have the financial security to be able to walk away from situations that are toxic. Money goals: Whether it is a plan to go back to school or that emergency fund for your parents, sending your kids to college, or just be able to take that dream vacation or a sabbatical you want, investing is one of the best ways to accumulate and grow wealth to reach those short term and long-term goals. Famous talk host Joan Rivers  once said: “People say that money is not the key to happiness, but I always figured if you have enough money, you can have a key made.” So have you got your key made yet? Start early There is never a “right time” to start investing as it is almost impossible to time the market. Therefore, when thinking about investments from a long-term perspective, one must invest frequently and consistently. As Doris P. Meister once said: “Take a measured risk.” Save more, earn better Research shows that despite the common perception that men make better investors, the opposite might be true. Fidelity Investments analysed over 8 million client accounts and found that women tend to outperform men in terms of generating a return on their investments. And this might be driven by traits that some people view as being inherently female. Women plan their investments from a long-term perspective with financial goals in mind rather than focusing only on performance, which ensures that they hold stocks from a long-term perspective rather than trying to time the market and generate higher returns by buying and selling during market fluctuations.
Women are more patient investors and don’t trade too frequently. On an average, they traded 35 per cent less compared with their male counterparts. Women take on less risk when it comes to investments, which ensures appropriate asset allocation and diversification, leading to more stability and better financial outcomes. Women are more likely to ask for help when it comes to investing and managing finances. Surveys revealed that 60 per cent of men think that their knowledge of investments and the stock market is foolproof. And women asked questions and sought professional advice 45 per cent more than men. Invest right When building a portfolio, a framework helps make the right decisions. Identify your goals: The starting point of every investment decision should be identifying the underlying goal behind investing. If you are focused on securing a steady stream of income for the future or saving for your children’s education, your investment decisions will differ. Allocate well: The second step in creating the right mix of investment categories such as stocks, bonds, and cash. This reduces the risk of loss and increases the chances of higher returns on investments. Diversify: Diversification across assets, sectors, and geographies helps in reducing the risk of losses. Investing in international markets helps diversify the portfolio. Rebalance your portfolio periodically: With changes in the way the market moves, holdings in the portfolio are likely to perform differently. It is, therefore, important to revisit the target allocation and rebalance the portfolio to re-align it with your investment goals. Evaluate new goals: It is important to periodically redefine your financial goals as your situation in life changes, and accordingly review your portfolio. John Bogle, an American investor and philanthropist once said: “Don’t look for the needle in the haystack. Just buy the haystack.” Global options If you are looking to build a diversified portfolio, you could consider the US markets. With a broad choice of ETFs and index funds available, you can easily take exposure to the broader equity markets that are historically less volatile. Here some tips for investing in US markets: Buy the world’s most innovative companies and participate in the growth of global leaders like Apple, Amazon, Microsoft, and Tesla. Buy companies you use and love like Starbucks, Nike, Estee Lauder and Disney. Invest in emerging themes like artificial intelligence, clean energy, and biotech which are not available in India. Protect your portfolio from a decrease in the value of the rupee vs the dollar. Save in US dollars for overseas expenses such as children’s education, travel, and medical expenses. Once you are ready to invest in the US market, open a US brokerage account. Doing so is a relatively straightforward online process. Transfer the funds from your bank account to your US brokerage account. Identify the investments you want to make. You can either do the research yourself or rely on guidance that is available in the form of recommended ETFs and curated portfolios. This women’s day foster the investor in you and take the first steps towards financial independence. The writer is chief executive and co-founder of Globalise, a platform for guided global investing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-116
