09-03-2021||Business||Sensex rises 584 points to close above 51,000 mark ||Equity benchmark Sensex rallied on Tuesday 584 points tracking gains in HDFC twins, ICICI Bank and Kotak Bank amid positive cues from global markets. The 30-share BSE index ended 584.41 points or 1.16 per cent higher at 51,025.48, and the broader NSE Nifty surged 142.20 points or 0.95 per cent to 15,098.40. Kotak Bank was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 3 per cent, followed by HDFC twins, ICICI Bank, Tech Mahindra, Bajaj Finance, Asian Paints and TCS. On the other hand, PowerGrid, ONGC, NTPC and Dr Reddy's were among the laggards. According to Binod Modi, Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities, domestic equities extended gains for the second consecutive day mainly aided by favourable cues from global markets. Financials (ex-PSU banks) majorly supported the market's rally on Tuesday. Barring Financials and IT, most of the key sectoral indices traded lower. Notably, midcap and small cap indices were down as investors opted to take profit off the table after recent run-up in these spaces, he added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong and Tokyo ended on a positive note, while Shanghai and Seoul were in the red. Stock exchanges in Europe were trading with gains in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.72 per cent higher at USD 68.73 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-114
09-03-2021||Business||Sensex rallies over 500 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex surged over 500 points in opening trade on Tuesday tracking gains in index majors HDFC twins, ICICI Bank and Reliance Industries amid mixed cues from global markets. The 30-share BSE index was trading 509.07 points or 1.01 per cent higher at 50,950.14, and the broader NSE Nifty was quoting 149.35 points or 1 per cent up at 15,105.55. HDFC Bank was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 2 per cent, followed by UltraTech Cement, Bajaj Finance, HDFC, M&M, Tech Mahindra and Asian Paints. On the other hand, ONGC and PowerGrid were the laggards. In the previous session, Sensex settled 35.75 points or 0.07 per cent higher at 50,441.07, and Nifty ended higher by 18.10 points or 0.12 per cent at 14,956.20. Foreign institutional investors were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 1,494.49 crore on Monday, as per exchange data. "Rising crude prices, surge in bond yields in the US and weakening INR could be a near-term risk for domestic equities, which has already resulted in FPIs' outflow in recent days. "However, we continue to believe that the recent rise in bond yield is discounting a faster recovery in economic growth and this is unlikely to move northward beyond a point," said Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities. In the US, equities ended on a mixed note in overnight trade on Monday. "Clearly, US markets are being driven by anticipations of faster economic recovery led by aggressive fiscal spending and faster reopening of the economy, which may also stoke inflation," Modi added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong and Tokyo were trading on a positive note in mid-session deals, while Shanghai and Seoul were in the red. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.94 per cent higher at USD 68.88 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-115
09-03-2021||Business||Tata Motors shareholders accept hiving off PV business into new entity ||Tata Motors on Monday said that its shareholders have approved the hiving off the passenger vehicle (PV) business into a separate entity. On March 5, the shareholders of the auto major had voted on a proposal to transfer the passenger vehicles unit to TML Business Analytics Services Ltd as a going concern. TML Business Analytics will pay a lump sum for the transfer which will take place on a slump sale basis. In a regulatory filing, Tata Motors said around 215.4 crore votes were polled of which around 215.3 crore were in favour of the resolution. This translates into 99.96 per cent of the votes, while 8.9 lakh votes (0.042 per cent) were against the proposal. In terms of public institutional shareholders, around 68.9 crore votes were polled with all of them in favour and none against the resolution. In the public non-institutional shareholder category, around 15.2 crore votes were polled with 15.1 crore (99.4 per cent) in favour and 8.9 lakh votes (0.6 per cent) against the move. The management expects the process of hiving off its domestic PV business to be completed around May-June this year, although it has not yet taken a call on a potential partner. Last year, Tata Motors had announced that it would turn its domestic PV business unit into a separate entity and seek a strategic partner to help the unit secure its long-term viability. In its letter to shareholders, Tata Motors had said that as part of an overall business reorganisation plan and in order to provide for the optimum running, growth and development of the PV undertaking and interests of the company, it is necessary to realign the business. According to Tata Motors, the spinoff will help in providing differentiated focus for the PV and commercial vehicle business and help each of them realise their potential apart from unlocking the business value and enhanced management focus and operational flexibility in each of these segments. It also pointed out that the passenger vehicle business (which also includes the passenger electric vehicle business) landscape is seeing rapid transformation in the form of tightening emission norms and safety norms, push towards electrification and enhanced disruptions from autonomous and connected technologies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-115
09-03-2021||Business||Shares of Muthoot Finance fall after chairman's death||Shares of Indian non-banking financial firm Muthoot Finance Ltd fell the most in nearly two months on Monday, after group chairman M.G. George Muthoot died over the weekend, with media reports saying he fell from his fourth floor house in New Delhi. On the BSE, the stock opened sharply lower at Rs 1,205 and later recovered to touch an intra-day high of Rs 1,271 before closing at Rs 1,259.90, down Rs 29.85, or 2.31 per cent, against the previous close of Rs 1289.75. The financier, grandson of the gold financing company’s founding chairman, is credited with growing the company into a pan-India name and scaling its presence beyond the southern state of Kerala, where it is based. George Muthoot took charge as chairman in 1993, overseeing its expansion into more than 4,500 branches across the country and growing its market capital nearly eight folds in the past decade. “Under his stewardship, Muthoot Finance saw new heights of growth and became the market leader in (the) Gold Loan Industry,” the company said in a statement on Saturday. The company did not mention the cause of his death but media reports, citing police sources, said he fell from the fourth floor of his house in the national capital. The forensic department of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) has constituted a board to probe the cause of death, Business Today said in a report on Sunday. Muthoot, AIIMS and Delhi Police did not immediately respond to calls and emails asking for more details.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-115
09-03-2021||Business||Government collects Rs 53,346 crore from Vivad Se Vishwas scheme till Feb 22||The bulk of the arrears raised under tax amnesty scheme Vivad Se Vishwas has come from central PSUs, according to the figures presented by junior finance minister Anurag Thakur in the Lok Sabha on Monday. The government has collected Rs 53,346 crore under the scheme till February 22, of which Rs 27,720 crore have been collected from central public sector undertakings (PSUs), Rs 1,023 crore from state PSUs, and Rs 24,603 crore by others. Thakur said over 1.28 lakh declarations have been filed under the scheme involving a disputed tax of Rs 98,328 crore. The minister said direct tax collections for the fiscal were likely to to be less than even the revised budget estimates. The target under revised budget estimate is Rs 9.05 lakh crore but the collections have just touched Rs 7.32 lakh crore till February. Fiscal Council call 15th Finance Commission chairman N.K. Singh on Monday called for the setting up a Fiscal Council like institution to better manage the debt trajectory of the Centre and states. He also highlighted the “substantial” increase in the proportion of cess and surcharge in gross tax revenue (GTR) in the past 10 years, saying only if a Constitutional amendment is introduced to include a portion of it into the divisible pool, then states' could get a share of the revenue earned under that head.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-115
09-03-2021||Business||Promoters of Kesoram to dilute stake||The Birla family’s holding in Kesoram Industries may tumble to 32.39 per cent following the issue of equity and preference shares to Indian lenders according to the terms of the long-pending debt resolution. The promoters now hold 53.13 per cent of the equity. The company, the flagship of Basant Kumar Birla Group, issued around 2.22 crore shares at Rs 65 a share, to nine Indian banks and one financial institution, converting a Rs 144.43-crore loan into equity. It also issued 4.48 crore zero coupon optionally convertible redeemable preference shares to the same set priced at Rs 100 apiece, converting a loan of Rs 448.97 crore. There will be a lock-in of one year on the instruments. Assuming that the preference shares are converted into equity, the promoters’ holding will slip. Shares were issued to Axis and ICICI Bank among others. The Kesoram scrip closed at Rs 83.85 on the BSE on Monday. On top of that, Kesoram plans to raise around Rs 700 crore by issuing optionally convertible debentures (OCDs) to a clutch of investors belonging to Goldman Sachs, Edelweiss and Sarvara Investment among others. This amount will be used to pay off the existing Indian lenders. The OCDs will not be converted to equity shares unless there is a default on behalf of the company on a specified date. However, if such conversion does take place, the holding of the promoters would decline further to 24.87 per cent. In the past, the Birla family had poured in money in the company as a form of equity to support the cement manufacturer. If that happens, the promoter holding may go up again. Manjushree Khaitan, daughter of late B.K. Birla, is chairman. Pilani Investment and Industries Corp and Century Textiles, which are under the effective control of Kumar Mangalam Birla, grandson of BK, and chairman of Aditya Birla Group, held 22.76 per cent in Kesoram before conversion. The exercise undertaken is part of a one-time settlement agreed by the Indian lenders. Part of the existing Indian lenders’ debt is being converted to equity while the rest is being swapped with money flowing from OCDs. The company hopes the exercise will ease the liquidity crunch and enable it to operate the 7.25 million tonne unit more efficiently.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-115
09-03-2021||Business||Warburg Pincus to invest Rs 800 crore in Adani Ports and Special Economic Zone||Brokerages have given a thumbs-up to the deal between Adani Ports and Special Economic Zone (APSEZ) and Warburg Pincus. This comes a day after the Gautam Adani-led firm had announced the sale of 0.49 per cent to Warburg Pincus for Rs 800 crore. Foreign brokerages feel the transaction will see Adani Ports having the flexibility to raise capital for future acquisitions, including that of Concor which has been put on the block by the government. On Sunday, Adani Ports had said that it will allot up to 1,00,00,000 equity shares to Windy Lakeside Investment Ltd on a preferential basis at a price of Rs 800 per share aggregating to Rs 800 crore. This represented a premium of almost 7 per cent to the closing price of Rs 748.55 of the APSEZ scrip on the BSE last Friday. The Adani Ports share on Monday hit a new high because of the Warburg Pincus transaction. On the BSE, the share opened higher at Rs 766.40 and hit a intra-day high of 768.40. It ended at 748.50 compared with the previous close of Rs 748.55. At present, APSEZ has a market cap of Rs 1.5 lakh crore. However, the Warburg Pincus deal values the company at around Rs 1.63 lakh crore. Brokerages were positive on the company after the announcement of the deal. Citi, which has a buy rating on the stock and a target price of Rs 935, said the preferential issue cements its valuation and because of this, Adani Ports will have the flexibility to raise capital to fund future acquisitions like that of Concor. Morgan Stanley, which has an over-weight rating on APSEZ, said the transaction is being done at a premium to the current market price and that it must be seen in the context of the Gangavaram Port (GPL) deal announced last week. According to the brokerage, the latest deal shows the confidence of the investor in the company. Last week, Adani Ports had said it will acquire 31.5 per cent held by Windy Lakeside Investment in GPL for Rs 1,954 crore subject to regulatory approvals. APSEZ added that it is also in discussions with its promoter— DVS Raju and family — for their 58.1 per cent stake (translating to around 30 crore shares) in GPL.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-115
09-03-2021||Business||Air India Employess’ consortium out of bid race||The proposal of the employees of Air India to take over the running of the ailing carrier has been rejected by the transaction adviser, leaving the Tatas as the favourite in the privatisation race along with Pawan Ruia and SpiceJet promoter Ajay Singh . “The financial bids would be called soon as the first stage of the process is over,” sources said. The employees had partnered a Seychelles-based fund for the venture. Transaction adviser EY had questioned the operations of the fund which led to the rejection. EY has listed three main reasons for the rejection of the bid of the Air India Employess’ consortium. Firstly, the Seychelles fund has not submitted the audited financial statements for three years. Second, a substantial part of the net worth of the fund comprised investments in offshore companies which were not revealed in the bid papers. Besides, the Seychelles fund was not appropriately regulated as defined in the Preliminary Information Memorandum. In a three-page letter to employees, Meenakshi Mallik, commercial director, who has been co-ordinating with the employees, said “as of late last night, I have seen an email from the transaction adviser to the Government of India (Ernst & Young LLP), informing the Employees of Air India that we have been unsuccessful in qualifying to the next phase of the ‘Disinvestment Acquisition process’.” The Telegraph has a copy of this letter. “While it is flattering to note that many wanted to associate themselves with us, we were, in fact, partnered with a financial fund based out of the Republic of Seychelles and dealt exclusively with it through the disinvestment process,” the letter added. “While I write to you with a heavy heart on the outcome of our bid to acquire Air India, I cannot help but be filled with a great sense of pride and admiration for the sincerest efforts we have made over the last few months, together,” Malik said in the letter. She said many others are now following in their footsteps such as the employees of Shipping Corporation of India and Pawan Hans Limited . “Post completion of the evaluation of the Eols (expression of interest) received, the Transaction Advisor will directly intimate the Qualified Interested Bidders (QIB) in relation to their qualification and the next steps for the Proposed Transaction,” Dipam had said in December. The government is looking to complete the process of the airline’s privatisation by next fiscal. The Tata group, SpiceJet promoter Ajay Singh in his personal capacity along with two investors, and Calcutta-based businessman Pawan Ruia in his personal capacity,are still said to be in the race for Air India. The Tatas may bid through its low-fare airline company AirAsia India. Air India is set to make a record loss of Rs 10,000 crore this financial year. The airline is burdened with debt of over Rs 23,000 crore after the government shifted its working capital debt to a state-owned special purpose vehicle.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-115
09-03-2021||Business||Foreign courts confirm $1.4 billion arbitration award against India||Courts in five countries, including the US and the UK, have given recognition to an arbitration award that asked India to return $1.4 billion to Cairn Energy plc — a step that now opens the possibility of the British firm seizing Indian assets in those countries if New Delhi does not pay, sources said. Cairn Energy had moved courts in nine countries to enforce its $1.4-billion arbitral award against India, which the company won after a dispute with the country’s revenue authority over a retroactively applied capital gains tax. Of these, the December 21 award from a three-member tribunal at the Permanent Court of Arbitration in the Netherlands has been recognised and confirmed by courts in the US, the UK, Netherlands, Canada and France, three people with knowledge of the matter said. Cairn has started the process to register the award in Singapore, Japan, the United Arab Emirates and Cayman Islands, they said. The registration of the award is the first step towards its enforcement in the event of the government not paying the firm. Once the court recognises an arbitration award, the company can then petition it for seizing any Indian government asset such as bank accounts, payments to state-owned entities, airplanes and ships in those jurisdictions, to recover the monies due to it, they said. So far, the government has not directly commented on honouring or challenging the Cairn arbitration award, but finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had last week indicated of going in for an appeal. Cairn’s shareholders, who include top financial institutions of the world, want the company to go for enforcement action should New Delhi fail to pay it. While the company spokesperson wasn’t reachable for comments, Cairn had on Sunday stated that it will “begin meetings this week with shareholders in the UK and the US, with the international arbitration award high on the agenda”. “The company met the Government of India last month and is taking all the necessary steps to protect their shareholders’ interests,” it had said. The tribunal had on December 21 ruled that the government breached an investment treaty with the UK and was, therefore, liable to return the value of shares it had seized and sold, dividend confiscated and tax refund stopped to adjust a Rs 10,247-crore tax demand. Cairn in its filings to the courts in the nine countries is seeking “to confirm this final and binding award under the New York Convention and commence enforcement proceedings to recover the losses caused by (India’s) unfair and inequitable treatment of their investments”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-115
09-03-2021||Business||Oil prices surge after strikes on storage site in Saudi Arabia||Oil prices pressed higher on Monday after strikes on major facilities in Saudi Arabia, the world’s largest exporter, shook energy markets already rattled by a decision by producers last week to not lift output. Brent crude, the international standard, surpassed $70 per barrel for the first time in over a year, gaining $1.14 to $70.47 a barrel. It had surged $2.62 on Friday. At 11.55 pm on Monday, Brent was trading at $68.06 a barrel. Benchmark US crude oil added $1.10 to $67.19 per barrel, up 1.7 per cent, falling back from bigger gains earlier in the day. It had jumped $2.26 to $66.09 per barrel on Friday. At 11.55 pm on Monday, WTI was trading at $64.87 a barrel. Prices have been recovering in the past few months after plunging last year with the onset of the pandemic. The devastating winter freeze that hit Texas and other parts of the southern United States last month knocked out production of roughly 4 million barrels per day of US oil, pushing prices above $60 a barrel. Last week, with oil prices rising, some observers were expecting the Opec cartel and its allies to lift more restrictions and let the oil flow more freely. But Opec agreed to leave most restrictions in place, despite growing demand. The strikes on Saudi sites have increased in frequency and precision in recent weeks, raising concerns about Saudi Arabia’s air defenses and the expanding capabilities of the Iran-backed rebels across the border in Yemen. A Saudi-led coalition launched an air campaign on war-torn Yemen’s capital and on other provinces on Sunday in retaliation for missile and drone attacks on Saudi Arabia that were claimed by the Iranian-backed rebels. The official Saudi Press Agency quoted an anonymous official in the ministry of energy as saying that a drone flew in from the sea and struck an oil storage site in Ras Tunura, the port run by Saudi Arabia’s state oil company, Aramco. It claimed the strike did not cause any damage. Saudi Aramco, the kingdom’s oil giant that now has a sliver of its worth traded publicly on the stock market, did not immediately respond to a request for comment. The ministry of energy denounced the strike as “an act of sabotage” targeting not only Saudi Arabia “but also the security and stability of energy supplies to the world.” When key oil facilities in Saudi Arabia were attacked in 2019, global energy prices soared 14 per cent the next day. But that prior attack disrupted more than half of its daily exports, halting 5 per cent of world crude oil output. Costlier oil pushes energy costs higher. That would add to inflation at a time investors have been focusing on the potential for rising prices to cause central banks to raise interest rates that have been taken to record low levels to support economies battered by the pandemic. “The last thing anyone wants in a recovering global economy is higher oil prices,” Stephen Innes of Axi said in a report on Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-115
