10-03-2021||Business||Sensex jumps 254 points to close at 51,279||Extending its gains for the third straight session, equity benchmark Sensex jumped over 254 points on Wednesday tracking gains in pharma, IT and auto shares amid largely positive cues. The 30-share BSE index ended 254.03 points or 0.50 per cent higher at 51,279.51, and the broader NSE Nifty rose 76.40 points or 0.51 per cent to 15,174.80. Bajaj Finance was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 2 per cent, followed by Sun Pharma, Tech Mahindra, Axis Bank, Bajaj Auto and Infosys. On the other hand, ONGC, Kotak Bank, ITC, HDFC Bank and PowerGrid were among the laggards. According to Binod Modi, Head - Strategy at Reliance Securities, domestic equities extended gains for the third consecutive day mainly aided by favourable global cues. IT, metals and pharma recorded sharp rebound over 1 per cent, while a strong buying was seen in automobile stocks also. Barring, PSU banks, most of the key sectoral indices ended in green. Unlike Tuesday, midcap and small cap stocks attracted investor interest on Wednesday again. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai and Seoul ended with losses, while Hong Kong and Tokyo settled on a positive note. Stock exchanges in Europe were largely trading with gains in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.59 per cent lower at USD 67.12 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-113
10-03-2021||Business||Sensex surges over 300 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex jumped over 300 points in opening trade on Wednesday tracking gains in index majors Infosys, HDFC and Reliance Industries amid positive cues from global markets and fresh foreign fund inflow. The 30-share BSE index was trading 329.15 points or 0.65 per cent higher at 51,354.63, and the broader NSE Nifty was quoting 95.75 points or 0.63 per cent up at 15,194.15. IndusInd Bank was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 3 per cent, followed by Bajaj Finance, M&M, HDFC, Infosys, HCL Tech, Titan, Bajaj Finserv and Reliance Industries. On the other hand, ONGC, Bharti Airtel, ITC and Nestle India were the laggards. In the previous session, Sensex ended 584.41 points or 1.16 per cent higher at 51,025.48, and Nifty surged 142.20 points or 0.95 per cent to 15,098.40. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 2,801.87 crore on Tuesday and domestic institutional investors (DIIs) bought a net of Rs 1,250.22 crore, as per exchange data. According to V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services, in this see-saw game in the market, bulls and bears are giving up and regaining their dominance in tune with macro trends. "A rise in bond yields temporarily strengthens the bears and when yields fall, bulls come back strongly. Now it appears that the US 10-year bond yield is likely to consolidate in the 1.5-1.6 per cent range for the short-term. FIIs are back to buying mode, he said, adding that this along with DII buying is likely to impart strength to the market. Brent cooling off a bit also is good macro news, he noted. The global oil benchmark was trading 0.80 per cent lower at USD 66.98 per barrel. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo were trading on a positive note in mid-session deals. US equities too ended on a positive note in overnight trade.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-113
10-03-2021||Business||Vehicle sales declined by 13 per cent in February||Vehicle sales have declined 13 per cent in February with the entry level two-wheeler segment sales falling 16 per cent as global crude prices have shot up. However, the passenger vehicle segment saw growth of over 10 per cent because of a low base last year, automobile dealers’ body FADA said on Tuesday. The two-wheeler segment continued to see sluggish demand as the new wave of Covid in certain states kept customers away. Enquiry levels also narrowed as many educational institutions were still reluctant to open. “Fuel prices are at their historic high this has affected sales in the entry-level price-sensitive category,” FADA president Vinkesh Gulati said. The total vehicle retail sales in February dipped 13.43 per cent year-on-year, according to the vehicle registration data released by the Federation of Automobile Dealers Associations of India (FADA). Passenger vehicles showed double-digit growth at 10.59 per cent. This growth was majorly due to the low base of last year as India had started transitioning from BS-4 to BS-6 emission norms, FADA said in the release. On a YoY basis, two-wheeler, three-wheeler and commercial vehicle registrations continued their fall by 16.08 per cent, 49.65 per cent and 29.53 per cent, respectively. Tractors continued their positive momentum by growing 18.89 per cent, the data showed. Passenger vehicle waiting period continued to remain as high as 8 months as the scarcity of semiconductors continued to linger around.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-114
10-03-2021||Business||Volvo e-car, The XC40 Recharge, to commence delivery in October 2021||Swedish luxury car maker Volvo Car India on Tuesday announced that it will commence deliveries of its first full electric car — The XC40 Recharge — in October 2021. “We are committed to becoming a leader in the fast-growing premium electric car market and plan to double our volumes in the next two years. We will commence bookings of our first pure electric SUV, XC40 Recharge, in June this year and start deliveries three months hence. By 2025, electric cars should constitute 80 per cent of our annual sales,” said Jyoti Malhotra, managing director, Volvo Car India. As part of its sustainability initiatives, the company announced that it aims to become carbon neutral by 2040. The company is also planning to make all its dealerships in India Green Dealerships. It is undertaking skill upgradation of its dealer workforce to familiarise them with the new technology of electric cars as well as to respond to the exact requirements of its customers. The company intends to sell only fully electric cars and phase out any car with an internal combustion engine, including hybrids by 2030. Malhotra said, “Our first electric car XC40 Recharge has been received very well globally and we expect the same in India as well. Starting this year, we will launch one electric car every year in the Indian market and by 2030 we aspire to become a fully electric car company.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-114
10-03-2021||Business||Transport key to trade with Dhaka:  World Bank report||Seamless transport connectivity between India and Bangladesh has the potential to increase national income by as much as 17 per cent in Bangladesh and 8 per cent in India, a new World Bank report published on Tuesday claimed. The launch of the report coincided with Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Bangladesh PM Sheikh Hasina inaugurating Maitree Setu in Tripura to bolster trade between the two countries, especially NorthEast and Chittagong. The bank said it would support infrastructure creation along the borders to allow the region reach the potential of an economic hub in South East Asia. It is investing close to $1 billion around the Bangladesh border on the Indian side. The two countries have signed a raft of agreements but their implementation has been slow. Despite a Motor Vehicle Agreement signed in 2015, trucks from either country cannot enter, posing significant delays. Crossing the India–Bangladesh border at Petrapole–Benapole, near 85 kilometre east of Calcutta, the most important border post between the two countries, takes about 100 hours. This is because cargo is moved from one truck to another when the border is crossed. In contrast, the time to cross borders  in other regions of the world, including East Africa, is less than six hours, the report “Connecting to Thrive — Challenges and Opportunities of Transport Integration” highlights. Bilateral trade accounts for only about 10 per cent of Bangladesh’s trade and a mere 1 per cent of India’s trade. Whereas, in East Asian and Sub-Saharan African economies, intra-regional trade accounts for 50 per cent and 22 per cent of total trade, respectively. In fact, it is about 15–20 percent less expensive for a company in India to trade with a company in Brazil or Germany than with a company in Bangladesh, the report points out. High tariffs, para-tariffs, and non-tariff barriers also serve as major trade barriers. Simple average tariffs in Bangladesh and India are more than twice the world average. This analysis, led by WB’s Matias Herrera Dappe and Charles Kunaka, found that improving transport connectivity could yield a 297 per cent increase in Bangladesh’s exports to India and a 172 per cent increase for India. Many believe that strong political will is required to weed out the bottlenecks . Misgivings on either side of the border about benefit and threat to each country are found to be well entrenched. Hasina alluded to it while virtually inaugurating the 1.9 kilometre long bridge on river Feni river in south Tripura when she said political boundaries should not become physical barriers to trade. At the launch of the report, India country director of WB Junaid Ahmed, reminded the historical significance of Bengal presidency during pre-Independence era and how the regional connectivity was exploited by the colonial masters. Ahmed expressed hope that the potential can be harnessed again by easing restrictions. Ahmed also noted that a lot of progress has taken place in the last one decade, such as exchange of electricity, starting of inland water trade, starting rail service and even pilot movement in road transport. “World Bank is a big believer in multilateralism and an ecosystem of free trade would like to invest in the ecosystem to accelerate this.” Mercy Tembon, the WB’s country director for Bangladesh and Bhutan said : “While trade between India and Bangladesh has increased substantially over the last decade, it is estimated to be $10 billion below its current potential. The WB is supporting  Bangladesh to strengthen regional and trade transit through various investments in regional road and waterways corridors, priority land ports, and digital and automated systems for trade.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-114
10-03-2021||Business||Cairn threatens to seize Indian sovereign assets overseas ||British oil firm Cairn Energy Plc on Tuesday said it has identified Indian sovereign assets overseas which it can seize if the Centre fails to return over $1.7 billion that an international arbitration tribunal has ordered after rescinding a retrospective tax demand. “Cairn is extremely confident that the satisfaction of the award will be achieved either by negotiated settlement or by enforcement against Indian assets,” the company said in its 2020 annual earnings statement. “Cairn has already taken steps to have the Award recognised in certain major jurisdictions in which Indian sovereign assets have been identified”. “Cairn’s engagement with the Government of India on its arbitration award will continue in parallel with pursuing options of enforcement and monetisation of the Award in order to safeguard shareholders’ rights,” it said. Cairn, however, did not reveal the assets it  would seize. The company has moved courts in nine countries to get the arbitral award registered and recognised. Once the court recognises an arbitration award, the company can petition it to seize any assets of the Indian government such as bank accounts, payments to state-owned entities, aeroplanes and ships in those jurisdictions. The arbitration award is enforceable against Indian-owned assets in more than 160 countries that have signed and ratified the 1958 New York Convention on the Recognition and Enforcement of Foreign Arbitral Awards. The December 21 award from a three-member tribunal at the Permanent Court of Arbitration in the Netherlands has been recognised and confirmed by courts in the US, the UK, Netherlands, Canada and France.  Further, the firm has started the process to register the award in Singapore, Japan, the United Arab Emirates and the Cayman Islands. So far the government has not directly commented on honouring or challenging the Cairn arbitration award, but finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had last week indicated going in for an appeal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-114
10-03-2021||Business||Mutual funds outflow jumps at Rs 4,534 crore in February||The net outflow from equity mutual funds stood at Rs 4,534 crore in February, the eighth consecutive month of outflow. February was marked by a rally in equities with the Sensex rising 6 per cent, meaning the mutual fund investors preferred to book profits. Barring multi-cap, large-cap, mid-cap and focussed funds, all the other schemes saw outflows last month. The newly created flexi cap category saw the maximum outflow of Rs 4497.23  crore. The large-cap category also saw withdrawals of Rs 1,280 crore. However, investors ploughed Rs 1,735 crore into debt mutual funds last month because of the good showing in liquid, low-duration and money market funds even as several other categories saw outflows. Net inflows into liquid funds stood at Rs 17,301.57 crore, low duration funds Rs 2,844.39 crore and money market schemes Rs 9,579.93 crore. On the other hand, short-duration funds saw an outflow of Rs 10,286 crore . “Profit booking in debt schemes with bond yields moving up, and in equity schemes with market indices at all time high is reflective of investors moving in tandem with market scenario,” N.S. Venkatesh, chief executive, Amfi said . Increasing preference of hybrid schemes is reflective of retail investors becoming increasingly conservative, leaning towards capital preservation and moderate returns, amid acute market volatility, he said. Despite the outflow from equities, asset under management (AUM) of the mutual fund industry rose to Rs 31.64 lakh crore in February.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-114
10-03-2021||Business||Liquidity signals worry investors as bond yields rise and global economy recovers||Investors are concerned over the availability of liquidity in the system as bond yields rise and the global economy recovers. The moves of the central banks across the world are being keenly watched, especially whether they will withdraw their accommodative policies earlier than expected. Some indication may be available next week when the US Federal Open Markets Committee meets on March 16 and March 17 . The general view is that the Fed will raise rates only in 2023. But investors are more concerned over whether the Fed will gradually wind down its monthly purchases of $120 billion of bonds. Last week, US Federal Reserve chairman Jerome Powell said the central bank will keep interest rates — which are near zero — till the US economy reaches maximum employment and inflation has risen to two per cent and is on track to moderately exceed two per cent for some time. “The markets will be mainly focusing on the expectations on whether the Fed, in its upcoming meeting, will maintain its accommodative stance in a rising bond yield market,” says Vinod Nair, head of research at Geojit Financial Services. Impact of the rising bond yields has been felt in the domestic markets as well with the benchmark indices coming under pressure over the last two weeks. Analysts said rising commodity prices and resulting higher inflation could also affect stock prices. They also warn that the rising cases of Covid-19 in some parts of the country could also spoil any rally in the markets. Rating agency Crisil has already cautioned that a second wave of the pandemic, especially with mutations that undermine the effectiveness of current vaccines, could lead to containment measures that will derail the recovery. In the trading  on Tuesday, the benchmark Sensex gained 584 points to close above the 51000-level because  of positive global cues. But a a fall in the US bond yields and gains in the US futures, saw the benchmark 10 year government security closing higher at 6.20 per cent. “While the long term structure of the market continues to remain positive, we believe that markets may face some hurdles in the near term due to concerns over the rising bond yields, commodity prices and risk of increase in inflation,” according to Siddhartha Khemka of Motilal Oswal Financial Services. In India, the yields on government bonds have risen to over 6.20 per cent since the presentation of the budget. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman in the budget had winched up borrowing plans for this fiscal by Rs 80,000 crore and set a gross borrowing target of Rs 12.05 lakh crore for the next year. Fears of the RBI gradually withdrawing its accommodative policy also raised yields.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-114
10-03-2021||Business||State refiners asked to diversify oil imports||India has asked state refiners to speed up the diversification of oil imports to gradually cut their dependence on West Asia after Opec+ decided last week to largely continue production cuts in April, two sources said. India, the world’s third biggest oil importer and consumer, imports about 84 per cent of its overall crude needs with over 60 per cent of that coming from West Asian  countries, which are typically cheaper than those from the West. Most of the Opec+ producers, led by the world’s top exporter Saudi Arabia, last week decided to extend most output curbs into April. India, hit hard by the soaring oil prices, has urged producers to ease output cuts and help the global economic recovery. In response, the Saudi energy minister told India to dip into strategic reserves filled with cheaper oil bought last year. “We have asked companies to aggressively look for diversification. We cannot be held hostage to the arbitrary decision of West Asian producers. When they wanted to stabilise the market we stood by them,” said a government source. India had not cancelled any shipment of crude oil from West Asia in 2020 when oil demand collapsed due to Covid-19, the source said. Already Opec’s share in India’s oil imports declined to a historic low during April 2020-January 2021, the first 10 months of this fiscal year. While initial costs could be high, the strategy will pay off in the long term, the source said. Two oil refiners confirmed that the government had asked them to expedite efforts to diversify crude import sources. One plan is to import oil from new producer Guyana, the sources said. The country’s top refiner Indian Oil Corp has also renewed its oil import contract with Russia, they added. India hopes to resume Iranian oil imports this year. India’s oil ministry and IOC did not respond to requests from Reuters for comment. Iraq and Saudi Arabia are the two biggest oil suppliers to India. This year, Iraq has cut annual supply volumes while Kuwait has shortened the duration of contracts with Indian buyers to 9 months. After Opec’s last week’s decision, crude oil prices rose to over $71 per barrel although the prices eased to $69.08 a barrel by 1027 GMT. Saudi has also raised April official selling price of its oil for Asia. “A beginning has to be made. No one had imagined that US oil will account for a significant share in our crude basket. We are trying for shorter-term contracts with new countries and sellers,” the first source said. Reuters “The world was together during the pandemic but now it seems some producers are working for their own economies,” said the first source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-114
10-03-2021||Business||Stress in microcredit increases||The stress in the microcredit sector has increased as loans over 30 days due breached the double digit mark during the third quarter of 2020-21. The portfolio at risk (PAR>30) has increased to 14.33 per cent for banks during the October-December quarter from 5.97 per cent during the July-September quarter of the fiscal. For non-bank microfinance institutions (NBFC-MFIs), the increase was from 4.17 per cent during the second quarter to 13.36 per cent during the third quarter. Banks and NBFC-MFIs together constitute 73 per cent of the micro credit loan outstanding as of December 31, 2020. Small finance banks, which constitute around 17 per cent of the credit outstanding, have seen a jump in portfolio at risk from 2.75 per cent to 10.13 per cent, according to data from Microfinance Institutions Network (MFIN). A combination of factors ranging from a lack of uniform recovery in livelihood and economic activities following the Covid-19 pandemic and lockdown, call for loan waiver of micro credit borrowers in certain states, liquidity issues with small and mid sized MFIs, delayed repayments and cash constraints at the borrowers end have contributed to the heightened risk. While Assam and Bengal have seen stress in certain districts, other states such as Tamil Nadu and Bihar are relatively better off in terms of stress. “After December, what we are hearing from the field level is the recovery rate has been reasonable in January and February. So, our assessment is that by March end the PAR>30 could come down to a single digit,” said P Satish, executive director, Sa-Dhan. “The disbursements during Q3 2020-21 are around 96 per cent of Q3 2019-20, indicating that it should reach normal levels by end of Q4 2020-21," said Alok Mishra, CEO and director, MFIN. In terms of regional distribution of microcredit, Bengal has overtook Tamil Nadu as the largest state in terms of portfolio outstanding of Rs 34,853 crore against Rs 31,520 crore of the latter for the quarter ended December 31, 2020. Tamil Nadu was ahead of Bengal during the quarter ended September 30, 2020. Among the top 10 states, Bengal now has the highest average loan outstanding per unique borrower of Rs 55,585 followed by Assam at Rs 48,578.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-114
10-03-2021||Business||Subramanian urges institutions to avoid crony lending||Chief economic Adviser K.V. Subramanian on Tuesday urged financial institutions to avoid crony lending and focus on high quality loans . “I think it is extremely critical now that the financial sector owns up this responsibility of doing high quality lending, especially on the infrastructure side, and really avoid crony lending... I think that is basically the mantra for the financial sector,” he said at an event organised by Ficci. He also suggested strengthening corporate governance in the financial sector and linking incentives of the senior management to quality lending. “Incentive mechanisms need to be put in place to prevent crony lending as infrastructure projects involve high gestation periods.” The CEA said bank auditors cannot shy away from flagging instances of the ever-greening of bad loans and zombie lending. “Banks need to ensure that capital allocation to the infrastructure sector is to creditworthy borrowers. Crony lending has been a problem in the banking system. The Economic Survey also highlighted that the banking sector’s problems originated from large loans that were not necessarily lent to the most creditworthy borrowers." He said the problem gets far more accentuated in the context of infrastructure. "Financial institutions especially need to be working on this,” he added. Subramanian emphasised that “crony lending is the elephant in the room that we have to acknowledge. Financial sector in India has to take responsibility that it is the ultimate arbiter of capital and ensure optimal capital allocation”. He suggested that compensation of senior management in banks must be curtailed on instances of ever-greening and zombie lending. The board of directors cannot be asleep at the wheel, he said, adding that auditors are the first line of defence. “Auditors cannot say this is something they cannot do. Data analytics can do. Zombie lending and ever-greening should be avoided as they lead to suboptimal capital allocation,” said Subramanian. Subramanian said the banking and financial sector was very small compared with  the size of the overall economy. “That is mainly because of the financial sector as a whole is still to figure out a model to make large corporate loans and large infrastructure loans in a way that does not lead to non-performing assets," said Subramanian. Pointing to the poor quality of loans particularly the big ones since the early 1990s, Subramanian said  loans were not given to most creditworthy borrowers but to crony capitalists, leading to high distress. “When the financial sector decides to actually lend to a particular borrower who is more connected even though that borrower may not be the most creditworthy, it means that capital is not being provided. There is an opportunity cost as the capital does not go to a more creditworthy borrower,” he said. Speaking at the event, Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India chairman M.S. Sahoo said out of the 4,000 companies that have been admitted for insolvency, 2,000 companies have completed the process. Resolution of distressed assets is bringing in more value than liquidation, he said, adding that in some companies it has been as high 300 per cent over the liquidation value.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-114
