11-03-2021||Business||After iPhone 11 and others, Apple starts assembly of iPhone 12 in India||Apple Inc is commencing assembly of its iPhone 12 model in India, a move that is expected to help the US tech giant further consolidate its position in the country. Apple has partnered with third-party manufacturers like Foxconn and Wistron to make some of its phones in India. These include iPhone SE, iPhone 10R and iPhone 11. "Apple is dedicated to making the best products and services in the world to delight our customers...We are proud to be starting production of iPhone 12 in India for our local customers, Apple said in a statement. While the Cupertino-based company did not name the supplier partners, sources said Foxconn will be making the iPhone 12 in India. Apple had started manufacturing iPhones in India in 2017 with iPhone SE. In a tweet, Electronics and IT Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said: "Nice to see our efforts to make India a big hub of mobile and components manufacturing is attracting global attention. This will create jobs in large numbers." Apple, which competes with players like Samsung and OnePlus in the premium smartphone segment, has been aggressively ramping up its presence in the Indian market. In January, Apple Chief Executive Officer Tim Cook had stated that the company has doubled its business in India in the December quarter on the back of strong performance of its online store, and that the tech giant sees a good growth trajectory going ahead. "India is one of those, where our share is quite low. It did improve from the year-ago quarter. Our business roughly doubled over that period of time. And so, we feel very good about the trajectory. We are doing a number of things in the area. We put the online store there, for example, and last quarter was the first full quarter of the online store," Cook had said. Apple also plans to set up brick-and-mortar outlets in India in addition to the online store as the iPhone maker looks to further cement its position in one of the world's biggest smartphone markets. In the past, Apple has stated that it is keen on offering online and in-store experiences to Indian users that are at par with its global standards and that it aims to open its maiden retail store in India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-113
11-03-2021||Business||Bank of Baroda seeks investor in credit cards||Bank of Baroda (BoB) is scouting for an investor in its credit card business even as it is considering a potential listing of its insurance joint venture in the next 18 to 24 months. Managing director & CEO Sanjay Chadha told Reuters that the lender is looking to bring in an investor in its credit card business over the next 12 months. The credit card business is currently housed under BoB Financial Solutions, which is a wholly-owned subsidiary of BoB. While its core business is credit card issuance, it also provides support to the PSU lender by carrying out its merchant acquiring operations, debit card operations for its overseas territory apart from providing consultancy services. During the year ended March 31, 2020, it had suffered a net loss of Rs 31.52 crore. It has more than half a million customers. Chadha further said BoB is also looking to list its insurance joint venture — IndiaFirst Life Insurance Company — in the next 18-24 months. Here the Reuters report quoting the BoB CEO said the business has been doing very well and it has significant value. While BoB has a stake of 44 per cent in the venture, the rest is held by Union Bank of India at 30 per cent and Carmel Point Investment at 26 per cent. The insurer began its operations in 2009 and it ended the previous fiscal with Rs 3,360 crore of total premium collected and an assets under management of Rs 14,723 crore. Shares of BoB closed marginally lower at Rs 80 on the BSE on Wednesday. During the third quarter ended December 31, 2020, BoB had reported a consolidated net profit of Rs 1,159.17 crore as compared to a net loss of R 1,218.87 crore for the same period a year ago. During the quarter, total income of the bank fell to Rs 22,070.52 crore from Rs 23,134.67 crore in the year-ago quarter. However, its asset quality saw an improvement with gross non-performing assets (NPAs) falling to 8.48 per cent of the gross advances by December-end 2020 from 10.43 per cent by the same period a year ago. In absolute terms, gross NPAs or bad loans fell to Rs 63,181.55 crore as against Rs 73,139.70 crore. Net NPAs also declined to 2.39 per cent or Rs 16,667.71 crore from 4.05 per cent or Rs 26,504 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-113
11-03-2021||Business||Telecom companies can only install govt approved gears from June 15||The department of telecommunications has amended the Unified Access Service Licence to prevent telecom players from acquiring equipment from untrustworthy vendors. The changes will take effect from June 15 and are meant to prevent Chinese telecom equipment makers such as Huawei and ZTE from taking part in the 5G rollout roadmap. The amendment will help the government control sourcing of products from China and other non-friendly countries. The National Cyber Security Coordinator (NCSC) may also notify a list of designated sources that cannot participate. Airtel and Vodafone Idea have existing contracts with the Chinese vendors, while Jio works largely with Korean vendor Samsung. Reports said that Vodafone Idea was in advanced stages of processing an order for network capacity expansion in six circles through Chinese telecom gear makers. Vodafone Idea did not respond to questions from this newspaper about how the changes in the licensing norms will impact its dealings with Chinese equipment makers. With effect from June 15, telecom operators will only connect trusted products in its network and seek permission from the NCSC for the upgradation of existing networks and for using telecom equipment not designated as trusted products. According to the licence amendment, the NCSC will be the designated authority that can impose conditions for the procurement of telecom equipment in matters directly related to national security. “However, these directions will not affect ongoing annual maintenance contracts or updates to existing equipment already inducted in the network as on date of effect," the amendment notification said. While the government has not barred procurement of equipment from Chinese companies, it amended the general financial rules 2017 to enable the imposition of restrictions on bidders in public procurement from countries that share a land border with India on grounds of the defence of India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-113
11-03-2021||Business||RBI takes IDBI Bank out from its prompt corrective action framework||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Wednesday lifted the tough restrictions on the operations of IDBI Bank under its prompt corrective action (PCA) framework. IDBI Bank was put under the central bank’s PCA framework in 2017. The banking regulator had introduced the PCA mechanism in 2002 that forced banks to follow pre-set guidelines if their performance in terms of capital adequacy ratio, net non-performing assets (NPA) and return on assets fell below a desired threshold. The banks under the framework were subject to restrictions in a number of areas such as expansion of their lending book and entry into new lines of business. The banks had to reduce or skip dividend and check management compensation and director fees. Subsequently, the RBI revised the guidelines in 2017. In a statement on Wednesday, the central bank said the performance of IDBI Bank was reviewed by the Board for Financial Supervision (BFS) in its meeting held on February 18. The RBI said on the basis of its published results for the quarter ending December 31, 2020, IDBI Bank was not in breach of the PCA parameters on regulatory capital, net NPA and leverage ratio. “The bank has provided a written commitment that it would comply with the norms of minimum regulatory capital, Net NPA and leverage ratio on an ongoing basis and has apprised the RBI of the structural and systemic improvements that it has put in place which would help the bank in continuing to meet these commitments,” the RBI said. “Taking all the above into consideration, it has been decided that IDBI Bank Limited be taken out of the PCA framework, subject to certain conditions and continuous monitoring,” it added. With the exit of IDBI Bank, there are three PSU banks under PCA. The three banks are Indian Overseas Bank, Central Bank of India and Uco Bank. For the quarter ended December 31, 2020, IDBI Bank had reported a net NPA ratio of 1.94 per cent while its capital adequacy ratio stood at 14.77 per cent and leverage ratio at 5.71 per cent. The prompt corrective action framework  is invoked if a bank’s capital adequacy ratio falls at least 250 basis points below the minimum prescription of 10.25 per cent and its net NPAs are over 6 per cent. The other two criteria are negative RoA for two consecutive years and leverage ratio — the percentage of capital to exposure — falls to four per cent. The exit of IDBI Bank should help the government in getting a better price as it looks to pare its stake in the bank. The shares of the lender on Tuesday ended with gains of 5.08 per cent at Rs 38.25 on the Bombay Stock Exchange. IDBI has a market capitalisation of Rs 41,128 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-113
11-03-2021||Business||India to challenge Cairn arbitration award, plans the same in Vodafone case||The Modi government on Wednesday set the stage for fierce battles with Cairn Energy Plc and Vodafone Plc after Parliament passed the Arbitration and Conciliation (Amendment) Bill, 2021 that empowers Indian courts to set aside arbitration awards if it believes that there is a prima facie reason to believe that these have been “induced by fraud or corruption”. The Act will take retrospective effect from October 23, 2015. Cairn Energy recently won an award from the Permanent Court in the Netherlands that directed India to pay $1.2 billion in damages plus interest and costs to the oil company after rejecting the government’s demand for retrospective payment of capital gains tax arising from a corporate restructuring dating back to 2007. Cairn Energy has been trying to exit the country but has been unable to do so because of the tax dispute. Last September, Vodafone Plc also won an award in The Hague that nixed an Indian tax demand for Rs 22,100 crore related to its acquisition of a 67 per cent stake in Hutchison Whampoa’s telecom business in 2007 for a little over $11 billion. At the end of a short debate in the Rajya Sabha on Wednesday, law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said: “It had become a national compelling necessity to pass this legislation.” The Lok Sabha had passed the legislation on February 12. The legislation, which will replace an ordinance issued on November 4 last year, became a “compelling necessity” after Cairn Energy moved courts in nine countries to enforce the award by seeking to seize the assets of the Government of India which has refused to pay the sum. It has already won court verdicts in five countries, including the US and the UK. The legislation provides for an amendment to Section 36 of the existing Act which empowers an Indian court to “stay the award unconditionally pending disposal of a challenge” if it is satisfied that (a) the arbitration agreement or contract which is the basis of the award, or (b) the making of the award, was induced or effected by fraud or corruption. The explanatory note says  “…For the removal of doubts, it is clarified that the above proviso shall apply to all court cases arising out of or in relation to arbitral proceedings, irrespective of whether the arbitral or court proceedings were commenced prior to or after the commencement of the Arbitration and Conciliation (Amendment) Act, 2015.” The challenge to a court stay can be mounted under an amended section 34  which carries some infirmities that Amar Patnaik, MP from Odisha, highlighted during the extremely short debate on the subject. Patnaik said: “We find that under Section 34 (2) (a) of the Act which has to be read with Section 36, it states that ‘An award shall not be set aside merely on the ground of an erroneous application of law or by re-appreciation of evidence’... So, the question of re-appreciation of evidence is not provided for in Section 34... It is not an appeal provision. But how is it possible that a prima facie case can be made without first providing for it in Section 34?” More pertinently, Patnaik went on to add: “Any issue of fraud is a mixed fact of law as well as facts, and, therefore, it cannot be summarily decided unless it is proved... And that particular proving would require that they would have to take evidence from sources other than what was provided in the initial arbitral award. So, I really do not know how this particular provision will be implemented unless the court is able to reopen the entire case.” The law minister said in defence that his government was determined to beef up the arbitration regime in the country and turn India into a hub for arbitration cases. “Should India have to pay when an award is tainted by corruption? Where a CBI enquiry is in progress? ... where on the basis of a collusive agreement, there is an attempt to pay an arbitral award using taxpayers’ money? We are only interested in creating an honest arbitration regime in India... we are only interested in frustrating any effort to loot the taxpayers’ money from this country through an award,” he added. He added: “A CBI enquiry is on. I will not name any company but they are trying to go abroad and enforce (an arbitral award). What are they saying?... Pay us thousands of crores based on our claim... first, they sign an agreement that was based on corruption...they acquired natural resources of this country through corruption...the government of the day at that time did not work at all... when our government came in, we caught all the irregularities...we are using law to tighten the country’s arbitration system... it is based on honesty. Prasad added: “Should some businessmen be allowed to come into this free country, abuse the system and  grab its natural resources... negotiate collusive contracts? And will we allow them to go abroad and enforce those awards and then demand thousands of crores from us? We are changing this law to stop them from doing so.” The amended Act could also impact the dispute between US-based Amazon Inc and the Future group over the sale of the latter’s retailing business to Reliance Industries under a Rs 24,713-crore deal. Amazon has been trying to enforce an interim award it won from a Singapore tribunal against the Future group’s sale of its retail business.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-113
11-03-2021||Business||Nandan Nilekani's grandson becomes an Infosys promoter||The country’s second largest IT services firm will now have a four-year old as one of its promoters. The surprising development arose after Janhavi Nilekani, daughter of Infosys chairman and co-founder Nandan Nilekani, transferred 7,77,600 shares to her son, Tanush Nilekani Chandra. The Infosys stock on Wednesday closed at Rs 1,368.10 on the BSE and based on this price, these shares are valued at Rs 106.38 crore. According to the shareholding data of Infosys for the quarter ended December 31, 2020, Janhavi Nilekani held 1.2 crore  shares of the IT services giant which translate to a holding of 0.30 per cent. The total promoter holding stands at 12.95 per cent. In a regulatory filing to the stock exchanges on Tuesday, Infosys said that Janhavi made an “off market” sale of 7.77 lakh shares, or 0.01 per cent, to Tanush. After the transaction, her stake stands at around 1.1 crore shares, or 0.27 per cent of Infosys’s equity. This is not the first time that a grandchild of a promoter is holding some shares of the prized IT services firm. For instance, co-promoter S.D. Shibulal’s grandson Milan Shibulal Manchanda at present holds 1.3 crore shares of Infosys. While Tanush Nilekani Chandra may be one of the youngest promoter in the country, experts say there is nothing wrong in such a transfer to even a four-year old child. Shriram Subramanian, founder and managing director of proxy advisory firm InGovern Research, told The Telegraph that these are inter-se transfers and there are no issues in such transfers or gifts and there is no age floor for a person to be classified as a promoter. Pointing out that even Sebi rules allow such inter-se transfer of shares, Subramanian said promoters of a listed company do not have a fiduciary responsibility which rests with its board of directors. It may be recalled that the founders of Infosys had in 2014 sought the approval of Sebi to reclassify themselves as public shareholders. However, the market regulator said they would be allowed to shake off the promoter tag only if the collective shareholding of the founders and their family members was brought down below 5 per cent. According to Section 2 (69) of the Companies Act, a promoter means a person who has been named as such in a prospectus or is identified by the company in the annual returns referred to in Section 92; or who has control over the affairs of the company, directly or indirectly whether as a shareholder, director or otherwise; or in accordance with whose advice, directions or instructions the board of directors of the company is accustomed to act.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-113
11-03-2021||Business||Shapoorji Pallonji reportedly in the last stages of debt recast||The Shapoorji Pallonji group is reportedly in the last stages of its debt recast under a one-time restructuring plan that was announced by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) last year. Earlier, Shapoorji Pallonji Company Pvt Ltd was looking to restructure around Rs 10,900 crore of its debt after the banking regulator accepted the KV Kamath committee report which allows firms to recast their debt for two years. Reports now say that the group is looking to sell partial or full stakes in group firms such as Eureka Forbes, Afcons Infrastructure and Sterling & Wilson Solar and proceeds of over Rs 10,000 crore will be used to pare some of its debt. The group has a total debt of over Rs 22,000 crore. Its debt recast proposal has received the necessary RP4 rating from Care Ratings which is the minimum required for the one-time restructuring mechanism. The plan entails conversion of due interest into a term loan. Rating agency Icra had said in a note in January that the ratings of Shapoorji Pallonji and Company Pvt Ltd (SPCPL) continue to be on watch with negative implications as the implementation of the one-time restructuring of its loans under the RBI’s resolution framework for Covid-19 related stress announced on August 6, 2020, is still under process. “Icra is given to understand that the servicing of debt for the lenders who are not part of the resolution plan is timely. The rating watch with negative implications reflects the uncertainty around the terms of the resolution plan. Timely implementation of the resolution plan with favorable terms easing the burden on the cash flows, resulting in improvement of coverage metrics  would be a key rating monitorable,” Icra observed. It further pointed out that SPCPL’s liquidity position is stretched and that the company has free cash balance of around Rs 181.1 crore (along with Rs 380.9 crore cash balances in international EPC projects) as on November 30, 2020. Icra further noted that the estimated cash flow from operations along with the existing cash balance would not be adequate to meet the high repayment obligations falling due over the short to medium term. "ICRA has taken note that SPCPL has applied for one-time restructuring of its debt exposure. Timely implementation of the resolution plan in a manner that alleviates the company’s tight liquidity position would be crucial’’, it said.’’||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-113
11-03-2021||Business||TRAI gives companies seven days to register themselves and their message template||The telecom regulator has given companies seven days to register themselves and their message template after banks, e-commerce players and others sought time following major disruptions in SMS and OTP deliveries for banking, payments and other transactions. DoT officials said it is high time companies register themselves because block chain technology would restrict messages that do not conform to the registered template. The ministry will review the issue with the regulator and a decision on allowing more time will be taken if necessary. “In order to protect the interests of consumers, it has been decided that scrubbing of SMS by telecom service providers shall be suspended temporarily for seven days… to enable principal entities to register the template of their text messages so that customers don’t face further inconvenience,” Trai said. Several banks approached Trai as they were unable to send texts and one-time passwords (OTPs), which impacted important services such as net banking, online transactions, credit card payments, bookings and more. “It has been observed some of the principal entities have not fulfilled the requirements as envisaged in Telecom Commercial Communications Customer Preference Regulations, 2018. As a result, their text messages were getting dropped after implementation of the scrubbing of SMSes by telecom service providers,” it said. Trai regulations were introduced in 2018 and a framework was put in place to protect customers from fraud and phishing. Under these regulations, companies which send messages are registered and the messages are verified by telecom firms using a block chain-based solution. Text messages from unregistered sender IDs or headers are blocked. Rules mandate telcos to verify the content of every SMS with the registered text before delivering it to consumers. For this, telcos have adopted blockchain-based technology (or distributed ledger technology—DLT) that checks headers, or sender IDs, and content of every SMS originating from a registered source, while unregistered sources are rejected. This means all transactional and promotional messages are supposed to have a standard template with header, preference and consent, which should be registered with the telecom operators. While banks complained of faulty implementation, telecom industry sources said there was some difference in templates shared with telecom companies and text messages sent to their customers by banks which resulted in messages not being delivered. “TSPs (telecom service providers) are following Trai regulations and have activated the due process of content scrubbing to address the issue of unsolicited commercial communication. TSPs have sent various communications to the principal entities to register their content template with TSPs before 7 March. We request all principal entities to get their content template registered with TSPs and help address the issue of unsolicited commercial communication," S.P. Kochhar, director general, Cellular Operators Association of India (COAI) said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-113
