12-03-2021||Business||Retail inflation in February grows to 5.03 per cent||Retail inflation rose to 5.03 per cent in February mainly on account of higher food prices, government data showed on Friday. The consumer price index (CPI) based retail inflation was at 4.06 per cent in January. The rate of price rise in the food basket accelerated to 3.87 per cent in February, as against 1.89 per cent in the preceding month, as per data released by the National Statistical Office (NSO). Inflation in the 'fuel and light' category remained elevated at 3.53 per cent during the month vis-a-vis 3.87 per cent in January. The Reserve Bank, which mainly factors in the retail inflation while arriving at its monetary policy, has been asked to keep CPI inflation at 4 per cent with a margin of 2 per cent on either side. The top bank had assumed the retail inflation to be 5.2 per cent for the fourth quarter of the current fiscal, in its monetary policy announcement in February. The Monetary Policy Committee chaired by the RBI Governor Shaktikanta Das, projected the gross domestic product (GDP) growth to be at 10.5 per cent in the next fiscal year, which is lower than the projections by Economic Survey 2021 and International Monetary Fund.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-111
12-03-2021||Business||Sensex tanks 487 pts; Nifty slips below 15,100||Snapping its three-session rising streak, equity benchmark Sensex tumbled 487 points on Friday, tracking losses in financial and auto stocks.  After gyrating 1,283 points during the day, the 30-share BSE index ended 487.43 points or 0.95 per cent lower at 50,792.08.  The broader NSE Nifty tanked 143.85 points or 0.95 per cent to end at 15,030.95.  Bajaj Auto was the top loser in the Sensex pack, falling around 3 per cent, followed by Maruti, ICICI Bank, Sun Pharma and Reliance Industries.  On the other hand, PowerGrid, ONGC, Titan and Infosys were the gainers.  According to Binod Modi, Head - Strategy at Reliance Securities, after seeing a brisk opening on favourable global cues, domestic equities fell sharply mainly led by selling pressure in financials and auto stocks.  "10-Year US treasury yield again surged back to 1.6 per cent on anticipation of spike in inflation led by USD 1.9 trillion fiscal stimulus backed faster economic recovery. This has weighed on investor sentiments," he said.  Hardening bond yields and soaring oil prices are also expected to weigh on investor sentiment and may keep markets volatile in the near to medium term, he added.  Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Seoul and Tokyo ended on a positive note, while Hong Kong was in the red.  Stock exchanges in Europe were also trading in losses in mid-session deals.  Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.09 per cent lower at USD 69.57 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-112
12-03-2021||Business||Sensex rallies over 500 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex rallied over 500 points in opening trade on Friday, buoyed by gains in financial and IT stocks amid positive global cues. The 30-share BSE index was trading 503.28 points or 0.98 per cent higher at 51,782.79, and the broader NSE Nifty was quoting 144.35 points or 0.95 per cent up at 15,319.15. L&T was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 2 per cent, followed by ONGC, NTPC, HDFC Bank, SBI, IndusInd Bank, ICICI Bank, SBI, Infosys and TCS. On the other hand, Bajaj Auto, Sun Pharma, HUL and Maruti were among the laggards. In the previous session on Wednesday, the Sensex ended 254.03 points or 0.50 per cent higher at 51,279.51, and the Nifty rose 76.40 points or 0.51 per cent to 15,174.80. Markets remained closed on Thursday for Mahashivratri. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they sold shares worth Rs 15.69 crore on Wednesday, as per exchange data. According to V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services, the 'risk on' in global equity markets got another push with the passage of a massive fiscal stimulus. US President Joe Biden has signed a USD 1.9 trillion American Rescue Plan which is expected to provide a major boost to the country's economy. US equities ended with strong gains in overnight trade. Back home, Nifty is again likely to reach record highs since SGX Nifty is indicating 15,400 levels. IT has been leading this leg of the rally. Now financials may catch up, Vijayakumar said. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Seoul and Tokyo were trading on a positive note in mid-session deals, while Hong Kong was in the red. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.14 per cent lower at USD 69.53 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-112
12-03-2021||Business||Arbitration act amendments may hit FDI||The latest arbitration act amendments may not have the desired impact to make the country an arbitration destination, legal eagles said. Besides, investors would be wary of taking significant exposures in a country notorious for the extremely slow pace of the legal process. The amended act passed by Parliament on Wednesday gives an impetus to frustrated litigants to knock on the doors of the judiciary in India to set aside an arbitral award on grounds of alleged “fraud” or “corruption”. Since what is required under the amended clause is prima facie satisfaction of courts that a particular award is vitiated by fraud or corruption, the judicial system is likely to be inundated with appeals against arbitral awards. Speaking to The Telegraph, senior advocate and former additional solicitor-general K.V. Viswanathan feels the present amendment is manifestly arbitrary and bound to weaken confidence in India as an investment friendly destination. “This is a manifestly arbitrary amendment  as its only purpose is to take away the discretion available to a court and fetter its hands and force it to pass an order in a particular manner, without even referring to balance of convenience and irreparable loss,” says Viswanathan. He said the amended provision contravenes Article 14 of the Constitution relating to equality before law. “The provision will erode investor confidence. Already in the statute as it stands sufficient safeguard exists for protecting parties rights. If India is to be made an arbitration hub the act should not be repeatedly tinkered with regressive amendments. This amendment has the effect of shackling courts powers.” However, another senior advocate Arijit Prasad welcomed the legislation as according to him it is in sync with other international laws on arbitration. Since most MNCs are familiar with the international arbitration laws, there is no reason why they should find any difficulty in complying with the amended provisions. “I think the amendment is very appropriate which has aligned the Indian laws with the International laws. I don’t think it would have any adverse effects on investment into India as the multinational companies have to comply with similar laws in their own countries. Therefore, they should not have any difficulty in complying with similar laws in India,” said Prasad.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-112
12-03-2021||Business||Coal India expects to earn net quality bonus of Rs 660 crore||Coal India on Wednesday said it was expecting to earn a net quality bonus of Rs 660 crore, allaying concerns over grade slippage. As of January 2021, Coal India stands to receive Rs 571 crore as net quality bonus for providing better quality coal than the declared grade. Coal quality has been a key concern for thermal power generators who have taken up the issue of grade slippage with the power ministry. The difference in billed coal grade and actual coal supply is also a concern among the non-power consumers of the miner. Coal India officials, however, said the notion that customers are billed for higher grade coal that the one actually supplied is “misconceived”. According to the miner, Coal India initially bills customers based on the declared grade of coal supplied which is later adjusted once the actual quality is tested and established by an authorised third party sampling agency, which are the Central Institute of Mining & Fuel Research and Quality Council of India. This system is in place since 2016 and there are plans to introduce two more globally reputed agencies for third-party sampling. “No consumer suffers financial loss arising out of quality variation between the declared grade and the actual tested grade” said a senior executive of the company. According to Coal India data, grade slippage during the third quarter of 2020-21 was down to 34 per cent from 41 per cent in the year-ago period. During January and February it has further declined to 23 per cent. Officials explained the primary reason for grade variations is the inherent heterogeneous nature of Indian coal itself meaning, calorific value of coal extracted within the same seam at different points tends to vary. The gradation of mines is determined by the Coal Controller’s Office and not by coal companies, officials said. Officials also said that there is a provision in the supply agreement for challenging the results of third-party sampling either by consumers or the coal company based on the analysis results obtained at their ends. In the case of a challenge, part of the coal samples are preserved and sent to a designated government laboratory for re-analysis.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-112
12-03-2021||Business||Commercial vehicle segment targeting 30 per cent growth in next fiscal||The commercial vehicle segment is expected to recover from the ravages of the pandemic, with the industry targeting 30 per cent growth  in the next fiscal. “The commercial vehicle (CV) segment underwent a cyclical downturn and it started in November 2018 when a dip in year-on-year sales was noticed. This was triggered by the increased axle load norm and the credit crisis. An economic downturn was witnessed with the BS-VI transition which led to a reduced stock in the system,” said Girish Wagh, president, commercial vehicle business unit of Tata Motors. He was speaking during a virtual media interaction after the launch of the Ultra Sleek T series range of Intermediate and Light Commercial Vehicles (I&LCV) on Thursday. “The lockdown aggravated the situation with a 90 per cent drop in sales in the first quarter of 2020-21, with the unlock in the second quarter there was 24 per cent downturn which further improved in the third quarter  to single digit and now in the fourth quarter we have month-on-month improved volumes,” said Wagh. “The segment is witnessing a combination of headwinds and tailwinds. Demand is back in the tipper and hauler segment. But the increase in tyre and fuel prices are putting pressure on the operators,” said Wagh. The new Ultra Sleek T-Series is available in three models – T.6, T.7 and T.9 in varied deck lengths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-112
12-03-2021||Business|| Kalyan Jewellers fixes price band of Rs 86-87 a share for its Rs 1,175-crore IPO||Kalyan Jewellers India Ltd (Kalyan Jewellers) on Thursday fixed a price band of Rs 86-87 a share for its Rs 1,175-crore initial public offering (IPO), which will open for subscription on March 16. The share sale comprises issuance of fresh equity aggregating up to Rs 800 crore and an offer for sale (OFS) worth Rs 375 crore. Kalyan Jewellers’ promoter T.S. Kalyanaraman will be offloading shares worth up to Rs 125 crore, while Highdell Investment, an affiliate of Warburg Pincus, will sell up to Rs 250 crore of shares through the OFS route. Around 50 per cent of the issue is reserved for qualified institutional buyers, 35 per cent for retail investors and 15 per cent for non-institutional bidders. Proceeds from the fresh issue of shares would be utilised for working capital requirements and general corporate purpose. The three-day public issue would conclude on March 18 and the bidding for anchor investors would open on March 15. Bids can be made for a minimum of 172 shares and in multiples of 172 shares thereafter. At the end of June 2020, the company had 137 showrooms with 130 of those in India and 30 in West Asia. Within India, while 65 showrooms were in South India, 42 were outside this region. Kalyan Jewellers designs, manufactures and sells a wide range of gold, studded and other jewellery products.Axis Capital, Citigroup Global Markets India, ICICI Securities and SBI Capital Markets are the global co-ordinators and book running lead managers. While the secondary equity markets have remained volatile because of concerns of rising US bond yields, the primary segment continues to witness hectic activity. Last year despite the pandemic, fund raising through the public equity markets came at a record level as Rs 1,77,468 crore was mobilised. This was 116 per cent higher than Rs 82,241 crore that was raised in 2019, according to Pranav Haldea, managing director, PRIME Database group. So far in this calendar year, almost a dozen companies that includes IRFC, Home First Finance, RailTel Corporation and Indigo Paints have tapped the markets. Senior officials with the firm said that one of the reasons behind the success of Kalyan Jewellers emerging as one of the trusted brands in this business is the quality & transparency, even as the adoption of an hyper-local approach has also paid rich dividends. Industry circles here indicate that impact of Covid-19 on retail jewellery business is almost over and that while expenses on matters like food & beverages have come down during a wedding, the same trend is not seen when it comes to jewellery demand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-112
12-03-2021||Business||Sebi forms group of experts to examine the feasibility of introducing SPAC-like structures in India||Capital market regulator Sebi has formed a group of experts to examine the feasibility of introducing special purpose acquisition companies (SPACs)-like structures in India, sources said on Thursday. The group, formed under Sebi’s Primary Market Advisory Committee (PMAC), has been asked to submit its report at the earliest, the sources added. “Sebi wants to explore the potential of SPACs while at the same time building adequate checks and balances in regulatory framework to take care of the associated risks,” said a source privy to the development. SPACs are formed to raise capital in an initial public offering (IPO) with the purpose of using the proceeds to identify and merge with a target company. SPACs are usually formed by private equity funds or financial institutions, with expertise in a particular industry or business sector, with investment for initial working capital and issue related expenses. Such companies have recently become popular in the US. There has been increasing demand that SPACs should be allowed in India as well. According to market experts, while SPACs have several advantages, they also raise various regulatory concerns. For public shareholders, SPACs give the advantage of investing along with the sponsors in the SPAC-like private equity type transactions. The advantage for the sponsor is that it allows rapid deployment of capital to take advantage of opportunities. It also helps the target company acquired by the SPAC going public during periods of market instability or volatility in traditional IPO markets. SPACs also face several challenges. According to experts, SPACs have distinct trading cycles unlike an IPO. They also need to deal with uncertainty risk like divergent interests of sponsors, investors and the target company. In the Indian context, some of the challenges are that a merger through a scheme of arrangement could be time consuming. Similarly, the process of liquidation could take considerable time, which might reduce the attractiveness of SPAC over IPO. There are regulatory concerns and issues as well in the SPAC proposal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-112
12-03-2021||Business||India’s steel and cement companies witnessing revival||India’s steel and cement companies are witnessing a revival after getting eviscerated by the pandemic, a sign the infrastructure sector is returning to normality. A report by CARE Ratings said the margins of steel companies were expected to grow further in the last quarter of the fiscal following a sharp drop in the first quarter and a gradual improvement in the next two quarters. Cement companies too have retained their vigour and the industry is expected to report a volume drop of 2 per cent this fiscal after a 31 per cent contraction in the first quarter, according to Crisil. The rating agency said the industry was  set to hit a decade-high volume growth of 13 per cent in the next fiscal, helped by an expected revival in demand from the infrastructure and urban housing sectors. In steel, the output this fiscal is set at around 102 million (mt) a decline of 7 per cent, CARE said. “Similarly, fall in steel consumption is estimated to be around 8 per cent to about 92 million tonnes considering that January-March is a seasonally heavy quarter for the industry.” JSW Steel show Meanwhile, JSW Steel has reported  a marginal decline of 1 per cent in its crude steel output at 13.06 lakh tonnes (lt) in February. The company, which is among the top six steel producers in the country, had produced 13.20lt of steel in the same month last year. In cement, rising power and fuel costs will impact the industry. “While volume growth will rebound, higher cost of sales would weigh on cement profitability next fiscal,” Crisil said. Rising prices of raw materials such as diesel, pet coke or coal, and polypropylene bags may push up costs by Rs 150-200 per tonne, it said adding that freight, power and fuel constitute almost 55 per cent of the total cost of sales of cement. “Increasing share of infrastructure and urban housing means a higher proportion of sales will be from the cost-conscious non-trade channels. That would translate to marginally lower net realisation for cement companies,” the agency said. Crisil Ratings director Nitesh Jain said demand from the hinterland, which was a saviour for the cement industry in the pandemic impacted 2020-21, should sustain on the back of higher rural incomes. “Higher spends on infrastructure development would be in line with the 26 per cent increase in budgetary allocation for infrastructure in the Union Budget 2021-22. That, coupled with pent-up demand in urban housing, will drive volume growth,” he said. Operating profits could moderate by Rs 200-250 per tonne next fiscal because of higher cost and lower net realisation, said Crisil research director Isha Chaudhary. Coking coal gains The steel industry, however, benefited from softer coking coal costs as well as from improved demand and realisations. Margins in the fourth quarter will be driven by healthy export orders and higher realisations, CARE said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-112
12-03-2021||Business||Top guns want to set up mutual funds||A long queue has formed before the capital market regulator to set up mutual funds even as investors make a beeline to the exit door in current funds. Singapore-based Samir Arora’s Helios Capital Management and Rakesh Jhunjhunwala’s Alchemy Capital are  the latest to apply to the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) for mutual fund licences. Helios Capital Management has applied for the licence on February 25, while Alchemy Capital Management applied  earlier on January 1. Singapore-based Helios Capital Management was formed by Arora in 2005. Helios runs a global long-only equity fund with an India focussed mandate. Helios Singapore holds a capital markets services licence of the Monetary Authority of Singapore and is registered as a foreign portfolio investor (FPI) with Sebi. Alchemy’s founders include Jhunjhunwala, Hiren Ved, Lashit Sanghvi and Ashwin Kedia. It offers portfolio management services (PMS) and alternate investment products. These are not the only two who are waiting for approvals for their applications. The other aspirants include Bajaj Finserv, Capitalmind, Frontline Capital Services, Unifi Capital Pvt and Zerodha Broking Ltd. Samco Securities has already won Sebi’s in-principle approval. In a recent report, analysts at ICICI Securities had said that mutual fund penetration ratio — which is the ratio of assets under management to gross domestic product — is significantly lower in India at 11 per cent compared with the global average of 55 per cent, which leaves enough opportunity for growth. The report said there was a lack of participation beyond the top 30 cities, which could be because of low financial literacy and a cultural attitude towards savings in physical assets, gold and bank FDs. The analysts at ICICI said various segments of the mutual funds industry such as equity, debt, liquid and others, including ETFs, will see better returns. For instance, the share of equity funds to nominal gross domestic product was expected to rise to 0.7 per cent of GDP in another 10 years from 0.5 per cent now. The brokerage has forecast that the assets under management of India’s mutual fund industry will increase to Rs 100 lakh crore over the next nine years  even as the trend of financialisation of savings continues. In February, equity mutual funds witnessed net outflow of Rs 4,534 crore  in the eighth consecutive month of outflow.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-112
12-03-2021||Business||BNP Paribas Cardif looking to sell stake in SBI Life Insurance||French insurer BNP Paribas Cardif is looking to sell its stake in SBI Life Insurance (SBI Life) marking the end of its two-decade long collaboration with India’s No. 1 bank. BNP Paribas Cardif is classified as a promoter of the life insurer. At the end of December 2020, it held 5.2 crore shares in SBI Life equivalent to 5.20 per cent stake in the company. The SBI Life scrip had ended at Rs 940 on Wednesday. The bourses were closed on Thursday on account of Mahashivratri. At this price, the value of the holding by the French firm stands at around Rs 4,888 crore. A Moneycontrol report said that BNP Paribas Cardif is selling 3.5 crore shares or around 3.5 per cent SBI Life shares, which are being offered at Rs 870-Rs 917 each. This represents a 2.45-7.44 per cent discount to the closing price of the SBI Life scrip on the BSE on Wednesday. It also has the option to increase the deal size by another 1.5 crore shares or 1.5 per cent. If the second option is exercised, BNP Paribas would be left with only a 0.2 per cent stake. It may be recalled that in June 2019, BNP Paribas Cardiff had sold a 2.5 per cent stake in SBI Life Insurance for about Rs 1,625 crore. In March 2019, it had offloaded a 5 per cent stake for Rs 2,889 crore and another  9.2 per cent stake for Rs 4,751 crore in the life insurer. The latest development comes at a time the Centre has raised the foreign direct investment (FDI) limit in insurance to 74 per cent. Covid impact During the quarter ended December 31, 2020, SBI Life reported a 40.2 per cent drop in net profit to Rs 232.85 crore largely because of a rise in Coronavirus-related provisions. The insurance firm had posted a net profit of Rs 390 crore in the same period of the previous year. During the period, net premium income rose to Rs 13,766.49 crore from Rs 11,694.51 crore. The insurer had said that it has assessed the overall impact of the pandemic on its business and financials, including valuation of assets, policy liabilities and solvency for the reporting period and had made adequate provisions. The period also saw its assets under management crossing the Rs 2-lakh-crore mark, rising 28 per cent year-on-year. Its market share among private players rose to 23.7 per cent in terms of new business premium. While renewal premium grew by 27 per cent, gross written premium increased 21 per cent to Rs 34,610 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-112
