13-03-2021||Business||Pause on pay rule to limit H1-B visas||The Biden administration on Friday issued a formal notification to delay the implementation of the previous Trump regime’s controversial rule to raise the mandatory minimum pay for foreign workers on the H-1B visa, the most sought after among Indian IT professionals. The H-1B visa is a non-immigrant visa that allows US companies to employ foreign workers in specialty occupations that require theoretical or technical expertise. The technology companies depend on it to hire tens of thousands of employees each year from countries such as India and China. The Department of Labour in its federal notification published on Friday said that it is considering whether to propose a further delay of the final rule's effective date and accompanying implementation periods that are currently scheduled to take effect on May 14, 2021, and July 1, 2021, respectively. Before further delaying the effective date and implementation periods, the department will provide the public an opportunity to comment, it said. On February 1, the Department of Labour proposed to delay the effective date of the final rule entitled “Strengthening Wage Protections for the Temporary and Permanent Employment of Certain Aliens in the United States”, published in the Federal Register on January 14, 2021, for a period of 60 days. The department proposed to delay the effective date of the final rule until May 14, 2021, in accordance with the presidential directive as expressed in the memorandum of January 20, 2021, from the Assistant to the President and Chief of Staff, entitled “Regulatory Freeze Pending Review”. As stated in the proposal, the 60-day delay would allow agency officials the opportunity to review any questions of fact, law, or policy. The department invited written comments from the public for 15 days on the proposed delay of effective date. All comments had to be received by February 16, 2021. The department received 57 comments from the stakeholder community. It has reviewed the comments received in response to the proposal and will delay the effective date of the final rule for a period of 60 days, said the notification. According to Mercury News, major Silicon Valley technology companies, which employ H-1B workers directly and via staffing firms, rely heavily on the visa and push to increase the annual 85,000 cap on new visas, claiming that they need more of them to secure the world's top talent. “Critics point to abuses and allege that the visa is used by outsourcers and staffing companies, as well as by tech giants, to replace US workers with cheaper foreign labour, drive down wages and facilitate outsourcing,” it said. The rule is a carry-over from the administration of former President Donald Trump, which proposed revisions to proposed mandatory salaries after losing a court battle to organisations including the Bay Area Council over an initial version. If imposed, workers on the H-1B at the lowest wage level would have to receive at least the 35th percentile of the prevailing wage for their job type and location, compared with the 45th percentile in the initial version. Workers at the highest wage level would have to receive the 90th percentile, compared with the 95th percentile, the report said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-111
13-03-2021||Business||Tata group to acquire online grocer BigBasket||The Tata group is acquiring online grocer BigBasket as it creates a super-app that will offer a wide range of products under one roof. Tata Digital (TDL), a subsidiary of Tata Sons, has filed an application with the Competition Commission of India (CCI) to acquire a 64.3 per cent stake in BigBasket. In its filing, the Tata group said TDL is engaged in the business of providing technology services related to identity & access management, loyalty programmes, offers and payments. The proposed transaction involves an acquisition by TDL of up to 64.3 per cent of the total share capital of Supermarket Grocery Supplies (SGS) through a combination of primary and secondary (when an existing shareholder sells shares) buyouts. Subsequently, through a separate transaction, SGS may acquire sole control over Innovative Retail Concepts Pvt Ltd (IRC). Through the deal, TDL will gain a majority stake of and control over SGS. SGS is engaged in online B2B (business to business) sales of various products in India while IRC is engaged in online B2C (business to consumer) sales of various products in India and operates the BigBasket website. It further pointed out that the proposed transaction will not lead to any change in the competitive landscape or cause any appreciable adverse effect on competition in India, irrespective of the manner in which the `relevant markets’ are defined. While the deal has been talked about since last year, it may see the exit of Alibaba and some of the other investors from BigBasket. Earlier reports had put the valuation at around Rs 14,500 crore. The entry of the Tata group could further increase competition in India’s online grocery segment now dotted by players like Flipkart, Amazon’s Fresh and Reliance Retail among others.  The Tata group is set to broaden its e-commcerce presence in the days ahead.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-111
13-03-2021||Business||Small finance banks gear up for listing||Small finance banks are making a beeline for the capital market to comply with the regulatory requirements of listing on the stock exchanges. The RBI in September 2015 had granted an in-principle approval to 10 small finance banks. One of the licence conditions was mandatory listing of the bank within three years of reaching a net worth of Rs 500 crore. At present, there are three small finance banks that are listed on the stock exchanges — Ujjivan Small Finance Bank, AU Small Finance Bank and Equitas Small Finance Bank. Two more small finance banks are looking at an initial public offer — Suryoday Small Finance Bank and Utkarsh Small Finance Bank. According to merchant bankers, a few more small finance banks are expected to file their prospectus with the capital market regulator within a few months as their listing deadline nears. Suryoday Small Finance Bank, which began its operations in January 2017, is going for a public issue comprising issue of fresh shares and offer for sale with a price band of Rs 303-305 per equity share. The size of the public issue at the upper price band is Rs 582 crore. The issue opens on March 17 and closes on March 19. The bank had earlier undertaken a pre-IPO placement with SBI Life Insurance, Axis Asset Management and a few others aggregating to Rs 152 crore. Suryoday Small Finance Bank officials on Friday said that the bank’s current promoter holding will come down from around 29 per cent to around 27 per cent post the public offer. The officials said that the decision to go for the public offer will help the bank to have a diversified shareholder base from a compliance and transparency point of view and also offer an avenue of capital support for future growth. Uttar Pradesh based Utkarsh Small Finance Bank has also filed its prospectus looking to raise an aggregate of Rs 1350 crore through fresh issue and offer for sale by Utkarsh Coreinvest Ltd. The proceeds would be utilised to augment the tier-1 capital base to meet future capital requirement. Utkarsh is also planning a Rs 250 crore pre-IPO placement in consultation with the appointed lead managers of the issue.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-111
13-03-2021||Business||Enforcement Directorate asks Amazon for information related to its India operations||The Enforcement Directorate has recently asked Amazon for information related to its operations in the country as the agency continues to investigate the US e-commerce giant, a senior agency source said on Friday. Last month, the source had said the directorate will examine the findings in a recent Reuters special report which revealed that Amazon has for years given preferential treatment to a small group of sellers on its India platform and used them to circumvent the country’s foreign investment rules. Amazon has for several years been under investigation by the agency for possible violation of foreign investment rules. Such probes typically take years in India, and in most cases details are not made public.
The Reuters special report was based on internal Amazon documents dated between 2012 and 2019. It provided an inside look at the cat-and-mouse game Amazon has played with the Indian government, adjusting its corporate structures each time the government imposed new restrictions aimed at protecting small traders. On Friday, the senior enforcement directorate source told Reuters “obviously we have sought information” from Amazon. Indian retailers, which are a crucial part of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s support base, have long alleged that e-commerce giants such as Amazon and Walmart’s Flipkart flout federal regulations and that their business practices hurt small traders. The companies deny the allegations. The documents reviewed by Reuters showed that Amazon helped a small number of sellers prosper on its India platform, giving them discounted fees and helping one cut special deals with big tech manufacturers such as Apple Inc. Rs 225cr infusion Amazon has infused over Rs 225 crore into its payments unit in India, Amazon Pay, according to regulatory documents. The fresh infusion is expected to help the company compete more aggressively against rivals like PhonePe, Google Pay and Paytm.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-111
13-03-2021||Business||Industrial output contracted 1.6 per cent in January||Industrial output contracted 1.6 per cent in January, a month after it entered the positive zone, as manufacturing and mining activities slumped, according to the data released by the ministry of statistics and programme implementation (MoSPI). The country’s industrial output contracted 12.2 per cent in the April-January period of the current fiscal, the data showed. Industrial production was hit hard by the nationwide lockdown imposed to spread the curb of infections. IIP declined for five consecutive months from April to August in 2021-22, before returning to positive territory in September and October. While IIP rose 4.5 per cent in October 2020 (final revised figure), it grew 1.6 per cent in December (first revised). Industrial output had contracted 2.1 per cent in November 2020. In January 2020, it grew 2.2 per cent, the ministry said. Fuel demand drops India’s fuel consumption fell for the second month in a row in February to its lowest since September as record-high prices hindered demand recovery. Petroleum product consumption fell 4.9 per cent to 17.21 million tonnes in February as demand for both petrol and diesel fell. Diesel, the most used fuel in the country, fell 8.5 per cent to 6.55 million tonnes, while petrol consumption was down 6.5 per cent to 2.4 million tonnes. Aditi Nayar, principal  economist of Icra, said: “After the rapid recovery seen till October 2020, the trend in the IIP has turned volatile in the last three months, suggesting that the economy has entered into a consolidation phase with an underlying momentum that is relatively subdued.” Madan Sabnavis, chief economist of Care Ratings, said: “Going ahead, we do expect growth to be negative in February but it will turn positive in March as growth last year was down 18 per cent. Hence there will be a statistical push in March.” In February 2021, deterioration in the performance of merchandise exports, the output of Coal India Limited and electricity generation has been offset by a sharp improvement in the pace of expansion of auto output, albeit on a very low base. Based on the available trends, we expect the IIP may well continue to contract in February 2021.” Madan Sabnavis, chief economist, Care Ratings said “going ahead we do expect growth to be negative in Feb but would turn positive in March as growth last year was down by 18%. Hence there will be a statistical push in March.” "The data trend of past few months therefore reinforces the view that the uptick witnessed in the month of September and October was more due to a combination of festive and pent demand and we are still far from witnessing a sustained  recovery.  This also means  government and RBI will have to continue to support the ongoing recovery least it fizzles out," Sunil Kumar Sinha, Principal Economist, India Ratings and Research said. The output of the manufacturing sector -- which constitutes 77.6 per cent of the Index of Industrial Production (IIP) -- shrank by 2 per cent in January, as against a growth of 1.8 per cent during the same month last fiscal, data showed. The worst performance was witnessed by the capital goods sector, which recorded a contraction of 9.6 per cent during the month under review, compared to a 4.4 per cent decline a year ago. M Govinda Rao, Chief Economic Adviser, Brickwork Ratings, said the contraction in IIP numbers for January comes as a bit of surprise after turning positive in December. "The manufacturing sector continues to contract at 2 per cent shows that we still have some distance to cover before the economy recovers," he said. A contraction of 3.7 per cent was registered in the mining sector in January, against a positive growth of 4.4 per cent in the year-ago period. As per the data, there was a contraction of 0.2 per cent in the consumer durables segment and 6.8 per cent in the consumer non-durable section. These two segments were in contraction during January 2020 also. The second advance estimates have pegged economic contraction at 8 per cent in the current fiscal. Economic growth is expected to bounce back sharply in the next fiscal on the back of resurgence in economic activity as well as low base effect.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-111
13-03-2021||Business||Retail inflation accelerated to three-month high of 5.03 per cent||Retail inflation accelerated to a three-month high of 5.03 per cent in February amid a spike in fuel and food prices, raising concerns of inflationary pressure adding to fragile economic growth. Retail inflation rose to 5.03 per cent in February mainly on account of higher food prices, government data showed on Friday. The consumer price index (CPI) based retail inflation was at 4.06 per cent in January.
The rate of price rise in the food basket accelerated to 3.87 per cent in February against 1.89 per cent in the preceding month, according to data released by the National Statistical Office (NSO). Within the food items, the rate of fall in vegetables prices was at 6.27 per cent in February against 15.84 per cent in the previous month. Inflation in the fuel and light category remained elevated at 3.53 per cent during the month vis-a-vis 3.87 per cent in January. The main cause of this inflation is on the core inflation side with personal products, health, and recreation registering very high inflation rates. The higher fuel prices have been passed through as seen in the 11.4 per cent increase in the transport and communications segment. Higher transport costs have also affected food prices, which have increased 4.25 per cent. “As far as personal products are concerned the higher inflation can be attributed to higher rates being charged by the industry post pandemic where several sectors have raised prices to cover for loss of sales in the first and second quarters,” Madan Sabnavis, chief economist, Care Ratings said. Inflation will continue to be high in March where fuel prices have peaked. The base effect would also be getting further diluted. In this situation the MPC will definitely pause any rate action "Inflation to remain sticky and unlikely to come lower than 4% before 3QFY22. With crude prices increasing, all eyes are on government’s taxation policy, which will have implications not only on inflation, but also on fiscal deficit and current account. In view of the growth inflation dynamics and the guidance given by the RBI,  India Ratings and Research believes that the RBI will continue with its accommodative policy and keep the policy rates in a pause mode over the next 6-9 months," Sunil Kumar Sinha, Principal Economist, India Ratings and Research said. The Reserve Bank mainly factors in the retail inflation while arriving at its monetary policy. This is the last set of retail inflation data before the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) and the finance ministry announce a fresh inflation targeting framework. The RBI has supported maintaining the existing inflation target of 4% within a band of 2 percentage points. “The RBI’s inflation target is due to be re-issued by the government by the end of this month. The government is considering relaxing the framework, while the RBI appears to want to leave unchanged the current headline inflation target of 4%, with a “tolerance band” of 2-6%. Either way, the current rate of inflation should be within the tolerance band. Today’s CPI release will be the last before the next upcoming MPC meeting, which is scheduled to conclude on 7th April,” Darren Aw, Asia Economist, Capital Economics said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-111
13-03-2021||Business||India confident of getting included in a global bond index by October||India is confident of getting included in a global bond index by October but it will not be able to raise funds in the coming financial year as the actual listing could take around 12 months after its inclusion, said two senior sources aware of the discussions. Since 2019, India has been working towards getting included in global bond indices as rising government borrowing has necessitated opening the largely domestic bond market to a broader investor base. India was hopeful of completing the listing in the upcoming fiscal, starting on April 1, as it would help bring down borrowing costs, which have been rising because of a lack of appetite amid high supply. The government plans to issue bonds worth $165.24 billion to fund its spending programme in the upcoming fiscal year to revive the pandemic-hit economy from a slump. “The indices will be reviewed in September. We have dealt with most of their concerns, we should be able to resolve the other issues too,” said one of the sources. “We expect to be included in at least one of the two major indices in September or October,” he said.
However, he said the actual listing could take longer and would not be concluded before the end of the fiscal. The finance ministry and the central bank, the Reserve Bank of India, did not immediately respond to requests for comment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-111
13-03-2021||Business||Centre orders Sebi to withdraw parts of order on perpetual bonds issued by banks||The Centre has ordered Sebi to withdraw parts of a controversial circular that the market watchdog issued on Wednesday that sought to treat perpetual bonds issued by banks as instruments with a 100-year tenure. The move had sent shock waves through the bond market as it raised the prospect of massive mark-to-market losses for investors. The department of financial services (DFS) issued a letter to Sebi asking it to rescind the 100-year valuation rule as it could disrupt the bond market and undermine the efforts of banks to raise additional funds through additional Tier-1 bonds (AT-1 bonds) to beef up their capital base. AT-1 bonds are considered to be issued in perpetuity, similar to equity shares as per the Basel III guidelines on capital adequacy. They form part of tier 1 capital of banks. The Sebi circular, which was due to come into effect from April 1, also imposed prudential limits on mutual fund  investments in these bonds which will remain. The new limits will constrain the ability of mutual funds to load up on AT-1 bonds and will lead to a rise in coupon rates, the DFS said in its office memorandum issued to the Sebi chairman and the economic affairs secretary in the finance ministry. “Considering the capital needs of banks going forward and the need to source the same from the capital markets, it is requested that the revised valuation norms to treat all perpetual bonds as 100 year tenor be withdrawn,” the memorandum said. North Block, however, said  instructions that reduce concentration risk of such instruments in MF portfolios can be retained as fund houses have adequate headroom even within the 10 per cent ceiling,
Mutual funds have bought Rs 35,000 crore worth of AT-1 bonds out of the Rs 90,000 crore issued by banks, almost 40 per cent of the issuances. They  would suffer massive mark-to-market losses if this guideline was implemented. “The clause on valuation is disruptive,” a note written by DFS to Sebi on Wednesday said. It argued that there is no benchmark for 100-year bonds in India. AT-1 bonds are popular with debt mutual funds because of their high interest rates. But they run the risk of getting converted to ordinary shares or even be written-down if a bank’s common equity Tier-1 (CET1) ratio falls below a certain threshold. Banks can also skip coupon payments. Investors, in fact, had a harrowing experience with the paper when Yes Bank wrote down such bonds worth Rs 8,415 crore. But it was the capital market regulator’s move to treat the bonds as 100-year paper for valuation purposes that rankled the government, mutual fund players and banks. Since these instruments are perpetual bonds, debt mutual funds value them to the call option date. For instance, if a bank issues a perpetual bond, the call option may be exercised after 10 years. Sebi’s current rules on valuation of such securities that have a call date say they should be done “at the lower of the value as obtained by valuing the security to final maturity and valuing the security to call option’’.
Sebi’s latest directive meant they will have to be valued at 100-year maturity. Mutual fund circles say this will directly mean a lower valuation of these bonds. Banks would also see the yields inching up and raising their cost of mobilisation. As per the current RBI rules, banks can raise 1.5 per cent of their risk weighted assets (loans) through such  bonds. “The Sebi circular (if it comes into effect) will make the valuation of such a perpetual instrument (quasi- equity in nature) to go haywire as the tenor of such bonds, instead of being perpetual, will be 100 years,” according to Uttara Kolhatkar, partner, J Sagar Associates. “This directive would have had a cascading effect on the bond market and increase volatility. Potential redemptions on account of this new rule would lead to mutual fund houses engaging in panic selling of the bonds in the secondary market leading to widening of yields.” Sebi had also fixed certain holding limits: no mutual fund can hold more than 10 per cent of such instruments issued by a single entity across all its schemes. An MF scheme shall not invest more than 10 per cent of the net asset value (NAV) of its debt portfolio in such instruments. Besides, an MF scheme should not invest more than 5 per cent of the NAV of its debt portfolio in a single issue. Deepak Shenoy, founder of Capitalmind, said in a blog post the AT1 market will not see that much enthusiasm from mutual funds. He said the limits on percentage owned and the rules against holding them in term based funds such as low duration funds or ultra short-term funds will lead to lower demand. This, he added, should hurt the price in the market for AT1 bonds. The circular may have begun showing its impact on some of these perpetual bonds. For instance, yields on SBI’s 7.73 per cent bond were trading at 7.53 per cent  against 7.28 per cent on Tuesday. The Association of Mutual Funds in India (Amfi) said it was in discussion with Sebi to make sure there is a smooth implementation of the circular and it fully supports the “need and spirit” of the circular in capping exposure to perpetual bonds. Most of the mutual fund schemes are well below the cap specified in the circular. In few of the schemes where perpetual bond exposure is higher than the Sebi prescribed cap, grandfathering is kindly permitted by Sebi to ensure that there is no unnecessary market disruption,” it said. Funds to banks The finance ministry is likely to infuse Rs 14,500 crore mainly in the banks that are under the RBI’s prompt corrective action framework in the next few days to improve their financial health. Indian Overseas Bank, Central Bank of India and Uco Bank are under this framework that puts several restrictions on them, including on lending, management compensation and directors' fees. The ministry has almost finalised the names for capital infusion, sources said. The infusion will be made in the next few days, the sources said, adding the biggest beneficiary of this round of capital infusion would be the banks that are under the prompt corrective action (PCA). The capital infusion will help these banks to come out of the Reserve Bank of India's enhanced regulatory supervision or PCA framework. Most of the large state-owned lenders -- including State Bank of India, Punjab National Bank, Bank of Baroda, Canara Bank, Union Bank of India, and Indian Bank -- have already raised money from various market sources, including share sale on a private placement basis.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-111
