14-03-2021||Business||Union govt to offload entire stake in Tata Communications||The Union government is offloading its entire stake in Tata Communications. It currently holds a 26.12 per cent stake (7,44,46,885 shares) in Tata Communications, which will fetch almost Rs 9,602 crore based on the closing price of the Tata group firm on Friday. Of this around 16.12 per cent will be sold through an offer for sale (OFS) while the rest will go to Panatone Finvest, an investment arm of Tata Sons. It may be recalled that VSNL was privatised in 2002 by the Atal Bihari Vajpayee-led NDA government when it divested a 25 per cent shareholding along with transfer of management control to Panatone Finvest Ltd, the strategic partner. Subsequent to the strategic divestment, the name of the company was changed to Tata Communications Ltd. During the selloff, VSNL’s 773.13-acre of surplus land in four cities, including Pune, Calcutta, New Delhi and Chennai, was kept out of the divestment process. These land parcels were then transferred to a company called Hemisphere Properties India Ltd for which it had got an approval from the National Company Law Tribunal and others. Hemisphere Properties is a listed entity in which the Tata group holds a 22.65 per cent stake (and the government has 51 per cent) according to shareholding data for the quarter ended December 31, 2020. At its annual shareholders meeting held in December 2020, the company’s top management had indicated that the value of the land parcels that can be monetised is around Rs 19,000 crore. In a regulatory filing, Tata Communications said: “Tata Communications has today (Friday) signed an amendment agreement between the President of India, Panatone Finvest, Tata Sons and the company for sale of the entire shareholding in the company by the government.” As an initial step, the government will sell up to 4,59,46,885 equity shares, forming a 16.12 per cent holding in the company through an offer-for-sale (OFS) through the stock exchange mechanism. Immediately after the OFS, the Centre will sell the remaining equity shares (2,85,00,000 or 10 per cent) to Panatone Finvest. At present, Panatone Finvest holds 34.8 per cent and Tata Sons has a stake of 14.07 per cent — a total of 48.87 per cent — in the firm. “Upon completion of these transactions, the government will cease to be a shareholder of the company,” it said. The government, Panatone, Tata Sons and Tata Communications have entered into an understanding with regard to amending the shareholders’ agreement dated February 13, 2002. The 2002 pact was formed to record the terms and conditions for transfer of the percentage of shares of Tata Commmunications held by the Centre to Panatone. For the December quarter of 2020, Tata Communications earned revenues of Rs 4,223 crore even as profits grew to Rs 309 crore. Net debt stood at Rs 7,972 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-110
14-03-2021||Business||High yarn prices hit hosiery firms||Hosiery makers have been caught on the wrong foot with the sudden rise in prices of cotton yarn, which have hit a lifetime high because of short supply and rising global demand. While the price of raw cotton has risen by 30-35 per cent, driven by an increase in minimum support price by the government, the surge in cotton yarn rates was more than 50 per cent. The situation has resulted in severe cash flow problems for smaller hosiery makers, who are mostly concentrated in Tirupur, Tamil Nadu and Bengal. A token strike has been called by all associations of the garment makers in Tirupur on Monday. “We have written to the finance minister and Union textile minister to look into the steep rise in cotton yarn prices which is impacting most of the MSMEs,” Vinod Kumar Gupta, managing director of Dollar Industries, said. The hosiery industry is estimated to be Rs 30,000 crore a year. Only a third of the players are in the organised sector. Udit Todi, director of Lux Industries, said there is a shortage in supply of cotton yarn in the domestic market due to export demand. “It is a seller’s market. Sometimes it is not possible to get the desired quantity and quality despite paying high prices,” he said. Companies have already raised prices by 4-5 per cent. The prices of synthetic yarn — spandex — has also gone up substantially in the last one year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-110
14-03-2021||Business||No renewal for 15-year-old govt vehicles: Union ministry||In a move to implement the ambitious voluntary vehicle scrappage policy, the Union road transport and highways ministry has issued a draft notification that states that registration would not be renewed for government vehicles that are 15-years-old on April 1, 2022. This will apply to all vehicles owned by the Centre, the states, Union Territories, public sector undertakings, municipal bodies and autonomous bodies. It has sought stakeholders’ comments to amend the related rules in this regard issuing a notification. “From April 1, 2022, government departments will not be able to renew the certificate of registration of their vehicles after 15 years. This will apply to all government — central, state, UT, PSUs, municipal bodies and autonomous bodies,” the ministry of road, transport and highways said in a tweet. The development comes close on the heels of the voluntary vehicle scrapping policy announced in the Union budget on February 1 for 2021-22 which provides for fitness tests after 20 years for personal vehicles while commercial vehicles would require it after the completion of 15 years. A notification on the draft rules has been issued to this effect on March 12 by the ministry, seeking comments, objections and suggestions from the stakeholders within 30 days. The certificate of registration shall not be renewed after the lapse of 15 years for government vehicles, it said. In January, the road transport and highways ministry had proposed a clutch of measures to ensure that vehicles  which are over 15-years-old  stay off the road. This included a steep increase in fee for the renewal of fitness certificate for old commercial vehicles, increasing the fee for the renewal of registration of private vehicles that are over 20-years-old and imposing a hefty green tax on old polluting vehicles. The ministry has proposed to increase the renewal fee for fitness certificate for commercial vehicles from the current Rs 200 to Rs 7,500. At present, it is mandatory for commercial vehicles, which are over eight years old, to renew their fitness certificate annually. Presenting the Budget for 2021-22 in Parliament, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on February 1 had announced the vehicle scrapping policy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-110
14-03-2021||Business||E-commerce policy push  for equality for sellers||E-commerce firms will have to treat all sellers and vendors equally on their platforms and ensure transparency, according to a draft national e-commerce policy . The draft said online retailers must refrain from adopting algorithms that result in prioritising a select few vendors on their platforms. Further, they will have to put out transparent policies on discounts, spelling out the basis of the discount rates for different products and suppliers. The government would also put in place adequate safeguards to prevent the misuse and access of data by unauthorised persons. “In the interest of the Indian consumer, and the local start-up ecosystem, the government will aim to ensure that there are more service providers available, and that network effects do not lead to the creation of digital monopolies misusing their dominant market position,” the draft policy said. An inter-ministerial meeting, under the chairmanship of a top official of the department for promotion of industry and internal trade (DPIIT), was held on Saturday to deliberate on this draft. Officials said the draft would be finalised after a few more meetings and, thereafter, the department will seek the Union cabinet’s approval. The meeting was chaired by DPIIT secretary Guruprasad Mohapatra. Officials from the government’s policy think-tank Niti Aayog and the ministries of finance, micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs), electronics and information technology (MeitY) were also present at the meeting. To ensure that e-commerce is not used to defraud customers, registration with an authority identified by the government will be mandatory. “The government shall collect information from e-commerce platforms to aid it in making necessary decisions,” it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-111
