15-03-2021||Business||EPFO closes71.01 lakh employees’ provident fund accounts in Apr-Dec 2020||Retirement fund body EPFO closed 71.01 lakh employees’ provident fund (EPF) accounts during April-December in 2020 post-pandemic which is higher than 66.66 lakh in the same period year ago, Parliament was informed on Monday. The government had imposed lockdown to contain the COVID-19 pandemic on March 25, 2020. “The number of Employees’ Provident Fund (EPF) accounts closed during the period from April to December 2020 is 71,01,929,” Labour Minister Santosh Gangwar said in a written reply to the Lok Sabha on Monday. According to the reply, the number of closure of EPF account in April-December 2019 was 66,66,563. The EPF account is closed for many reasons including superannuation, job loss or changing jobs. The minister also stated that the number of EPF accounts with partial withdrawal also rose to 1,27,72,120 in April-December 2020 from 54,42,884 in the same period in 2019. Total withdrawals from EPF account in April-December 2020 rose to Rs 73,498 crore from Rs 55,125 crore in the corresponding period year ago. In a separate reply to the House, the minister said that under the Aatmanirbhar Bharat Rozgar Yojna (ABRY), 1.83 lakh establishment or firms have been registered covering 15.30 Lakh employees till February 28, 2021. As much as Rs 186.34 crore has been released under the ABRY till February 28, 2021. The ABRY scheme has been launched to incentivize employers for creation of new employment along with social security benefits and restoration of loss of employment during the COVID-19 pandemic. This scheme being implemented through the Employees' Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) reduces the financial burden of the employers of various sectors/ industries and encourages them to hire more workers. Under ABRY, the Government of India is bearing for a period of two years, both the employees' share (12% of wages) and employers' share (12% of wages) of contribution payable. In another reply to the House, the minister said the EPFO has invested Rs 27,532.39 crore in exchange-traded funds (ETF) till February 28, 2021. The EPFO had invested Rs 32,377.26 crore in 2019-20 and Rs 27,743.19 crore in 2018-19 in the ETF. In a separate reply to the House, the minister stated, “The number of claims settled by the Employees' Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) during the lockdown period (i.e March 25, 2020, to May 31, 2020) were 31,01,818.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-109
15-03-2021||Jharkhand||Centre working on Jharkhand to agree on commercial mining, says minister||The Centre on Monday said it is trying to "consult and convince" the Jharkhand government about the benefits of its commercial coal mining policy which is designed to boost domestic production and reduce imports. Union coal minister Prahlad Joshi said during the Question Hour in the Rajya Sabha that it was a "big sin" that India, despite having the largest coal reserves, was dependent on import of thermal coal used in power generation. The dependence on imports was due to restriction on allocation of coal blocks, which had been eased out after serious consultations with state governments, he said. After the consultations, the central government brought a commercial coal mining policy under which coal blocks are opened to private investors through auction for commercial purpose, he added. "We have consulted the state governments. Even we have consulted the Jharkhand government. Initially, they appreciated it and later they have opposed it. But we are in regular consultation with the state government," Joshi said in the upper House. The Centre is trying to "consult and convince" the Jharkhand government because ultimately the policy is in the interest of the state as the revenue earned goes to the state, not to the Centre, he said. "We are trying to convince them. I hope they will be convinced. Already auction is done since the cooperation of the state is needed, we are in regular touch with the state government," he added. The minister was responding to a query by BJP leader from Jharkhand Sameer Oroan that if any hurdle had been faced in imports due to opposition to the government policy by Jharkhand. Replying to another question asked by BJD leader Amar Patnaik on non-operation of coal blocks that were already auctioned, the minister said some of the mines had not started production. “The coal ministry on a day-to-day basis monitors and is changing the norms to withdraw such blocks which are not operational,” he said, adding that the Centre was continuously interacting with state governments, including Odisha on this issue. "I would also like to acknowledge that the Odisha government is giving very positive suggestions and accordingly we are acting," he added. The minister said that it took 2-3 years to start actual production after allocation of coal or mine blocks. However, many measures had been taken to speed up and begin the production at the earliest. “Approximately Rs 6,556 crore will be the revenue when coal mines start the production,” he said. On imports, the minister said that it may be little difficult to cut shipments of imported coal with which power is generated and there is no substitute for that in the country. "But the target of the Modi government is to stop all avoidable imports by 2024," he added. To another query on steps taken to preserve the green cover over mines, the minister said plantation drive was underway in a big way. “Wherever possible mine water is purified and supplied for drinking purpose and irrigation,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-109
15-03-2021||Business||Sensex tanks 397 points, Nifty slips below 15K||Equity benchmark Sensex tumbled 397 points on Monday, tracking losses in index heavyweights Reliance Industries, HDFC twins and ICICI Bank amid weak macroeconomic cues. After gyrating 1,035.71 points during the day, the 30-share BSE index ended 397 points or 0.78 per cent lower at 50,395.08. The broader NSE Nifty finished 101.45 points or 0.67 per cent down at 14,929.50. Bajaj Finserv was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding around 3 per cent, followed by Bajaj Auto, Bajaj Finance, L&T, Asian Paints, Dr Reddy's, ICICI Bank, HDFC Bank and Reliance Industries. On the other hand, Tech Mahindra, PowerGrid, IndusInd Bank, HCL Tech and NTPC were among the gainers. According to Binod Modi, Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities, domestic equities witnessed sharp sell-off for the second consecutive trading day as mounting concerns about resurgence of COVID-19 cases in various parts of the country and rising bond yields made investors jittery. "Further, unexpected contraction in IIP data for January 2021 and sharp spike in CPI print also weighed on sentiments," he said. Industrial production growth re-entered the negative territory by contracting by 1.6 per cent in January, while retail inflation soared to a three-month high of 5.03 per cent in February on costlier food items, as per data released post market hours on Friday. Further, the wholesale price-based inflation rose for the second consecutive month in February to 4.17 per cent, as food, fuel and power prices spiked. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai and Seoul were in the red, while Hong Kong and Tokyo ended on a positive note. Stock exchanges in Europe were also trading with gains in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.01 per cent lower at USD 69.21 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-109
15-03-2021||India||Nationwide 2-day strike impacts banking services of PSU banks||Banking services such as cash withdrawals, deposits, cheque clearing and business transactions were impacted across the country on Monday, the day one of the PSU bank union's strike, against the proposed privatisation of two more state-owned lenders.  United Forum of Bank Unions (UFBU), an umbrella body of nine unions, had given a strike call for March 15 and 16, and claimed that about 10 lakh bank employees and officers of the banks will participate in the strike.  In the Union Budget presented last month, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman had announced the privatisation of two public sector banks (PSBs) as part of the government's disinvestment plan.  All India Bank Officers Association (AIBOC) General Secretary Sowmya Dutta said the government policies are going to have ill effects on the economy as also it will be reflected in the upcoming polls in some states.  He said nearly all the bank employees have taken part in the two-day strike except for top-level employees.  "All banking services are impacted from cash withdrawals to deposits, business transactions, loan process, cheque clearing, account opening and business transactions," he said.  He said the striking employees have taken out rallies, wherever permitted, across the country, and given a sat-in and if the government does not listen to them they will go for an even bigger, indefinite strike like the one on the lines of ongoing farmers' agitation.  "We are connected with crores of population through our branches, we are educating our customers about the government's ill policies and how it is going to impact them," Dutta said.  Through the Department of Financial Services, the bank unions have also conveyed to the Finance Minister to withdraw her statement from the floor of Parliament about privatisation of the state-owned banks, he added.  All bank employees from the scale I, II and III had a 100 per cent participation across the banking sector in Monday's strike, said a bank official who is not authorised to speak to the media.  "We call them assistant managers, managers and senior managers. At this level, there is 100 per cent participation in the strike and 80-90 per cent branches are headed by them," the official said.  The bigger branches headed by chief managers or AGMs are about 20 per cent, so even if these senior level employees are not taking part in the strike, they alone cannot run the bank, said the official cited above.  Meanwhile, branches of private sector lenders like ICICI Bank, HDFC Bank and Axis Bank are open as they are not part of the strike.  The government has already privatised IDBI Bank by selling its majority stake in the lender to LIC in 2019, and has merged 14 public sector banks in the last four years.  According to All India Bank Employees Association (AIBEA) general secretary CH Venkatachalam, services at branch level; cheque clearance; and government transactions have been affected.  Members of UFBU include All India Bank Employees Association (AIBEA), All India Bank Officers' Confederation (AIBOC), National Confederation of Bank Employees (NCBE), All India Bank Officers' Association (AIBOA) and Bank Employees Confederation of India (BEFI).  Others are the Indian National Bank Employees Federation (INBEF), Indian National Bank Officers Congress (INBOC), National Organisation of Bank Workers (NOBW) and National Organisation of Bank Officers (NOBO).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-109
15-03-2021||Business||Sensex surges over 600 pts in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex tumbled over 600 points in opening trade on Monday, tracking losses in financial stocks amid foreign fund outflows. The 30-share BSE index was trading 630.51 points or 1.24 per cent lower at 50,161.57, and the broader NSE Nifty was quoting 184.15 points or 1.23 per cent down at 14,846.80. SBI was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding around 2 per cent, followed by M&M, Dr Reddy's Lab, Bajaj Auto, Axis Bank, Bajaj Finance and Kotak Bank. On the other hand, Tech Mahindra and PowerGrid were the gainers. In the previous session on Friday, the Sensex had ended 487.43 points or 0.95 per cent lower at 50,792.08, and Nifty tanked 143.85 points or 0.95 per cent to end at 15,030.95. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they sold shares worth Rs 942.60 crore, as per exchange data. According to Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities, a sharp increase in CPI print for February and unexpected contraction in IIP data for January are expected to weigh on investors' sentiments. Further, sharp increase in US treasury yields and recent spike in fresh COVID-19 cases in various parts of the country are likely to keep markets volatile in the near term, he said. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai and Seoul were in the red, while Hong Kong and Tokyo were trading on a positive note in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.74 per cent higher at USD 69.73 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-109
15-03-2021||Business||United Forum of Bank Unions calls for nationwide strike||Banking operations across the country could be impacted on Monday and Tuesday as the United Forum of Bank Unions (UFBU) has given a call for a nationwide strike to protest against the proposed privatisation of two state-owned lenders. Services such as deposits and withdrawal at branches, cheque clearance and loan approvals would be affected due to the strike. UFBU, an umbrella body of nine unions, in a statement claimed that about 10 lakh bank employees and officers of the banks will participate in the strike. Many public sector lenders, including State Bank of India, have informed their customers that their normal working could be affected at the branches and offices if the strike materialises. In the Union budget presented last month, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had announced the privatisation of two public sector banks as part of the government’s disinvestment plan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-109
15-03-2021||Business||36 mutual funds to fall foul of Sebi’s latest rules||As many as 36 schemes of mutual funds will fall foul of Sebi’s latest rules that limit the exposure of the funds in instruments such as additional tier 1 (AT-1 or perpetual bonds) and tier 2  bonds. An analysis by credit rating agency Crisil said the 36 schemes of 13 fund houses held more than 10 per cent of their net asset value of their debt portfolio in such papers. The regulator had also said a single scheme cannot hold more than 5 per cent of their NAV in a single issue. Crisil said none of the fund houses has breached another restriction by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) viz. they cannot now hold more than 10 per cent of their holdings across all schemes in a single issue. Last week, Sebi had came out with a circular on the review of norms regarding investment in debt instruments with special features such as additional tier 1 (AT-1) and tier 2 bonds as well as the valuation of the  perpetual bonds. The directives prompted a sharp retort from the finance ministry which objected to the valuation rule for the perpetual bonds. North Block directed to Sebi to scrap the rule that said such instruments should be treated as having a 100-year tenure. Sebi had also said the investments in excess of the limits may be grandfathered. Such schemes shall not make any fresh investment in these instruments till their exposure comes below the specified limits. North Block, however, said the instructions that reduce the concentration risk of such instruments can be retained as fund houses have adequate headroom even within the ceiling. According to Crisil, the Sebi move will mitigate risk in debt portfolios of retail investors. The agency said  banking and public sector undertaking (PSU) fund categories have the highest number of schemes  — seven — exceeding the cap. Five schemes of credit risk funds have exceeded the cap. Others to cross the limit are four schemes from medium duration funds, four from medium- to long-duration funds and three from dynamic bond funds. Piyush Gupta, director, Crisil funds Research, said the move to grandfather limits previously held was a positive step. “In the medium- to long-term, with the caps in place, it can reduce the MFs’ appetite for these securities, thus limiting the risk for investors. This is also prudent given the advent of influx of individual investors into debt funds.” Gupta said the individual investors may not have the ability to understand MF portfolios and gauge risk, especially in such type of bonds. “We saw how they were caught unaware by the recent write-offs,” he said. Additional tier 1 bonds are perpetual debt instruments that cannot be redeemed at the option of the holder and carry fixed coupon. They are issued by banks which do not have a maturity date and are, hence, called perpetuals but have higher risks. On the other hand, additional tier 2 bonds are one-two notches above AT-1 bonds of a bank and therefore have high loss-absorption features. The RBI had opened up these bonds to retail investors about six years ago.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-109
15-03-2021||Business||CII suggests safe harbours for independent directors||Industry body CII has suggested putting in place safe harbours for independent directors, calling for proceedings against them to be initiated only when there is prima facie evidence of their involvement in a matter. The government recently concluded the exercise of decriminalising the Companies Act, 2013. In this connection, the CII has submitted a paper to the ministry of corporate affairs highlighting matters with respect to the framework for settlement of offences; liability of independent directors; vicarious liability etc. The chamber said it is necessary to expressly exempt independent directors from vicarious criminal liability as they are not involved in the day-to-day running of the company. A non-obstante clause may be incorporated in the Act to exclude independent directors from any vicarious criminal liability for offences committed by the company, it said. As a general principle, given the onerous responsibilities and liabilities on directors, including independent directors and company secretaries, penalties ought to be limited to fines instead of imprisonment, suggested the chamber. The Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) in the paper on decriminalisation argued that establishing safe harbours will go a long way towards addressing concerns of talented individuals wishing to join company boards as independent directors. “Liability of an independent director under the Companies Act may be limited to the extent of such contraventions/defaults, which are committed by the company with the knowledge or consent of the said independent director,” CII said. In relation to corporate social responsibility (CSR), the penalty that be imposed for non-compliance should not exceed the unspent CSR amount, it suggested. The chamber highlighted the need to create legal and procedural safeguards relating to personal liability of independent directors, and initiation of prosecution itself should be an exception rather than the rule, to keep risk and rewards of being an independent director proportionate. The whole idea of decriminalising civil duties is essential to conserve faith in the institution of independent directors, it said. While there are several case laws that set out legal principles on interpreting vicarious liability under various statutes, initiation of proceedings itself can involve significant personal hardship and costs for the concerned individuals, it argued. “While wrong doers must be prosecuted, there needs to be procedural guidelines/safeguards across laws to restrict and minimize proceedings against individuals who are not actually and demonstrably in charge of the management," said CII.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-110
15-03-2021||Business||Govt plans to sell residual stakes in Delhi, Mumbai, Bangalore and Hyderabad airports||The government plans to sell its residual stakes in the already privatised Delhi, Mumbai, Bangalore and Hyderabad airports as part of the ambitious Rs 2.5-lakh-crore asset monetisation pipeline identified to raise additional resources, sources said. The sale of the Airport Authority of India’s (AAI) remaining stakes in the four airports as also 13 more airports has been identified for privatisation in 2021-22, two people aware of the deliberations at the empowered committee of secretaries last month said. The ministry of civil aviation will obtain the requisite approvals for the divestment of equity stakes of the AAI in the respective joint ventures running the Delhi, Mumbai, Bangalore and Hyderabad airports, they said, adding the issue is likely to go to the cabinet for approval in the next few days. For the 13 AAI airports identified for privatisation, the possibility of clubbing of profitable and non-profitable airports will be explored to make more attractive packages, sources said. In the first round of airports’ privatisation under the Narendra Modi government, the Adani group bagged contracts for six airports — Lucknow, Ahmedabad, Jaipur, Mangalore, Thiruvananthapuram, and Guwahati — last year. The AAI, which works under the ministry of civil aviation, owns and manages more than 100 airports across the country. Adani Group holds a 74 per cent stake in Mumbai International Airport, while the remaining 26 per cent stake is with the AAI. In Delhi International Airport, GMR Group holds 54 per cent and the Airports Authority of India holds 26 per cent, while Fraport AG and Eraman Malaysia holds 10 per cent stake each. The AAI along with the government of Andhra Pradesh holds 26 per cent in Hyderabad International Airport Ltd. It holds a similar stake in Bangalore International Airport along with the Karnataka government. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman in the 2021-22 budget speech had said monetising operating public infrastructure assets is very important financing option for new infrastructure construction. A “National Monetisation Pipeline” of potential brownfield infrastructure assets will be launched and an asset monetisation dashboard will also be created for tracking the progress and to provide visibility to investors, she had said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had last month said the government is targeting monetising 100 assets such as oil and gas pipelines, which can draw a massive Rs 2.5 lakh crore of investment. The government is targeting Rs 1.75 lakh crore from the divestment proceeds in the next financial year beginning April 1.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-110
15-03-2021||Business||Raghuram Rajan cautions 'drastic changes in India’s monetary policy can upset bond market||Former RBI governor Raghuram Rajan on Sunday cautioned that “drastic changes” in India’s monetary policy framework can upset the bond market as the current system has helped to contain inflation and promote growth. Rajan, also a noted economist, opined that the government’s ambitious target to make India a $5-trillion economy by 2024-25 was “more aspirational, rather than a carefully computed one even before the pandemic”. “I believe the (monetary policy) framework has helped bring inflation down, while giving the RBI some flexibility to support the economy. It is hard to think of what would have happened if we had to run such large fiscal deficits without such a framework in place,” Rajan told PTI in an interview. His remarks were in response to a query on whether he was in favour of reviewing the 2-6 per cent target band for inflation under the monetary policy framework. The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has the mandate to maintain retail inflation at 4 per cent with a margin of 2 per cent on either side. The central bank’s six-member monetary policy committee (MPC) headed by RBI governor decides on policy rates keeping this target in mind. The current medium-term inflation target, which was notified in August 2016, ends on March 31. The inflation target for the next five years starting April 1 is likely to be notified this month. Against this backdrop, Rajan said, “We risk upsetting bond markets if we make drastic changes in the framework”. “I think the framework has been beneficial in bringing down inflation, I don’t think it has been costly in slowing growth, and this is probably the wrong time to make drastic changes,” he pointed out. With the government embarking on substantial borrowing plans to boost the coronavirus pandemic-hit economy, there are concerns among certain quarters about the overall financial health, and bond yields have also been on an upward trajectory. The latter trend indicates that government borrowings could become more costly. About reform measures, Rajan said that while the 2021-22 budget has placed a lot of weight on privatisation, the history of the government delivering on this is checkered, and he wondered how it will be different this time. He pointed out that in the latest budget, laudably, there is more transparency about the true extent of spending, as well as a degree of conservatism about budget receipts that has not been seen in recent budgets. However, Rajan opined that the budget is less clear about revenue raising and the financial sector actions. The slow projected pace of fiscal consolidation could have been made more feasible by credible measures such as a fiscal council and a debt target, he added. The government has budgeted Rs 1.75 lakh crore from stake sales in public sector companies and financial institutions, including 2 public sector banks and one general insurance company for the next fiscal beginning April 1.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-110
15-03-2021||Business||Tata Motors optimistic about semiconductors supply||Homegrown auto major Tata Motors is optimistic that the supply constraint of semiconductors that has impacted its commercial vehicle production will be back to normal by the second half of the next fiscal, according to a senior company official. The company, which had hiked prices in October and January to offset the impact of rising commodity rates, is looking at taking a similar step in April in the wake of continued increase in steel and other raw material prices. “In H2 (the second half of the ongoing fiscal), we have also seen semiconductors becoming a major constraint. This is something which has actually affected us in commercial vehicles (CVs) also,” said Girish Wagh, president of commercial vehicle business unit, Tata Motors. Stating that the semiconductor supply constraints started from November, he said, “We have seen some impact. Initially, it was on small commercial vehicles (SCV) and later we have also seen some impact happening in medium and heavy commercial vehicles (M&HCV).” In terms of the actual impact on production, he said it varies from segment to segment with the “highest in SCVs and the least in I&LCV (intermediate and light commercial vehicles)”. To overcome the challenge, the company has taken several steps, including engaging with suppliers and talking to semiconductor manufacturers to get some of the consignments faster. On being asked how long the issue is likely to continue, Wagh said, “The impact should go on gradually reducing. Towards the end of Q2 and beginning of H2, we should be seeing the supply side completely on track but the situation is indeed very very dynamic.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-110
15-03-2021||Business||Home buyers prefer market leaders||The Covid pandemic appears to be changing the landscape of Indian real estate in a manner no regulation could do yet. Top-grade developers and branded players with established track records are gradually cornering a bigger pie of the market, pushing out the rest. In a sign of maturity, the share of top developers has doubled in just two years with most of the tailwind felt after the lockdown, consolidating the highly fragmented residential real estate market in favour of big boys. Top developers now corner 15.6 per cent of the total floor space sold in India, twice the share it had two years back. In the beginning of the year, their share was just about 9.8 per cent, a study conducted by India Ratings & Research, noted. They predicted the share could touch 19.8 per cent by FY22. During April-December, the total floor space sold was down 41 per cent but grade-A players bucked the trend, who saw their sales going up by 4.3 per cent in the same period despite the pandemic. “There is a clear shift happening towards branded players. When it comes to under-construction property, buyers are trusting only top developers. In the case of others, we see customers preferring only if it is ready to move in wherein risks of delivery are not there,” said Sriram Mahadevan, managing director of Joyville Shapoorji Housing Pvt Ltd. The company said it has been able to command premium over competitors in the market where it operates — Pune, Delhi, Mumbai and Howrah — apart from clocking faster sales. The absence of advance money from prospective buyers during construction and unavailability of bank finance is only exacerbating the tight cash flow of non-graded players. Abhishek Shukla, associate director of Ind-Ra, who wrote the report, said non-graded players were caught in a vicious cycle during the pandemic and the stress they were in multiplied during the period. “Buyers have turned cautious, they are preferring builders who have a track record of timely delivery. As a result, sales dried up for non-graded players, which further hamstrung their ability to complete an ongoing project and get buyers,” Shukla explained. Ind-Ra expects overall floor space sold during the next fiscal to go up by 30 per cent, after the 34 per cent decline witnessed in this fiscal. It was stagnant at 326 million square foot in 2019-20. “The recovery will be dominated by the grade-1 players, whose sales are likely to grow by 49 per cent year-on-year next fiscal, after a 14 per cent y-o-y increase in this fiscal. Non-grade I players are also likely to see their sales rise by 26 per cent y-o-y in FY22, after a 39 per cent y-o-y decline in FY21,” the report read. Trapped with large inventory of land or unfinished projects and tight cash flow, many developers are looking to farm out assets to monetise them. Consolidation is seen among players where companies having stronger brand name are entering into development management contracts with relatively weaker players.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-110
15-03-2021||Business||Dabbling in debt||Years from now you would remember the last few months of fiscal 2020-21 for a number of reasons — the arrival of a vaccine, the appearance of green shoots in some corners of the economy, the farmers’ agitation in the North and the market’s changing views on interest rates. Those were the winds of change, you would then think aloud, and may be you would recall some of the specific events and developments that you know would eventually fade into oblivion. Casting aside oblivion and steering clear of sentiments, let us dwell on the here and the now — more specifically, on developments in the debt market, especially the probability of rising inflation. Influential sections of the market seem to have taken this into account already; they are, in fact, well aware of the impact of factors such as the recent stimulus packages, partial opening up of the economy after the lockdown, increasing commodity prices and so on. Informed quarters now have a pronounced leaning towards shorter duration debt products as such a stance would help in mitigating the downside risk in a scenario marked by rising rates. I have a strong feeling that the discerning investor of the day would focus heavily on yields, and not really on the prices of securities. This, of course, is in line with the preferred trend; smarter sections of the market seem to simply love phrases like “well, the yields scenario looks primed for changes” and even “yields increased (or declined) on Monday” but not “prices declined (or advanced) on Monday”. These participants certainly are well aware of the fact that coupons are holding steady as changing yields do not mean that coupons are changing too. A coupon is, after all, determined at the time of issuance and mostly does not alter during the existence of a security. Investors further know that their shorter allocations would continue to fortify their total income. Bonds, for instance, keep paying interest despite changes in prices. In fact, rising prices mean that investors could sell their holdings and derive capital gains. Here are three quick points to remember: The writer is director of Wishlist Capital Advisor||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-110
15-03-2021||Business||Maruti to have a service workshop for its vehicles every 15 to 20 km||Maruti Suzuki India Limited (MSIL) will be having a service workshop for its vehicles every 15km to 20 km in the country. At present, it has 4,000 touch points in 1989 towns and cities, thus making it the largest service network of any car maker in the country. The company has added 208 service workshops in this fiscal. “The country has 5500 talukas and we are covering almost 98 per cent of these talukas apart from some hilly terrains in the north-east,” said Partha Banerjee, executive director (service), MSIL. Besides having the largest retail network among all the car companies, Maruti has an  an end-to-end digital sales platform. “The customer journey has been digitised but the vehicle journey cannot be digitised. So we are bringing the service part closer to the customer so that if he has any problem with the vehicle it can be addressed quickly and efficiently,” said Banerjee. Customers can digitally book their servicing needs, create a job card, book a pick-up and drop of his vehicle digitally. “Once at the workshop, if the vehicle needs additional work or repairs, we upload videos with details and send to the customer for his approval.” Of the 1989 towns and cities covered, most are in the urban areas. “In the rural areas we can have a brick and mortar workshop only if the area crosses a threshold of car park. We need to have a car park of 600 vehicles to have a physical brick and mortar workshop,” said Banerjee. In those areas where the company does not have a workshop, vehicles are repaired by Service on Wheels, a mobile service station. In a move to offer faster on-road assistance for customers’ cars, a first-of-its-kind integrated service initiative, the Quick Response Team on bikes has been rolled out in 249 cities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-110
