16-03-2021||Business||Sensex, Nifty end marginally lower, financial stocks drag||Equity benchmarks Sensex and Nifty gave up early gains to end marginally lower on Tuesday, tracking losses in financial stocks. The 30-share BSE Sensex ended 31.12 points or 0.06 per cent lower at 50,363.96, and the broader NSE Nifty slipped 19.05 points or 0.13 per cent to 14,910.45. L&T was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding 1.56 per cent, followed by ICIC Bank, SBI, Kotak Bank, HDFC Bank, NTPC, Axis Bank and Bajaj Finserv. On the other hand, Asian Paints, Dr Reddy's, HCL Tech, HUL and Bharti Airtel were among the gainers. Domestic equities gave up initial gains and traded flat towards the final hours of the day despite favourable cues from global equities, said Binod Modi - Head Strategy at Reliance Securities. "Financials once again dragged the markets. Notably, IT stocks were in focus today mainly on expectations of sustained earnings momentum in 4QFY21E and benefits from possible fall in INR. "In our view, increasing concerns with regards to resurgence of COVID-19 cases in various parts of the country and resulted restrictions could be a near term risk for domestic markets. Additionally, volatile bond markets and soaring inflation will continue to weigh on investors' sentiments," he added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul ended on a positive note. Stock exchanges in Europe were also trading with gains in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 1.61 per cent lower at USD 67.77 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-108
16-03-2021||Business||Sensex rises over 200 points in opening session, Nifty tests 15K||Equity benchmark Sensex jumped over 200 points in opening trade on Tuesday, tracking gains in index majors Infosys, Reliance Industries and Asian Paints amid positive trend in global markets. The 30-share BSE index was trading 274.03 points or 0.54 per cent higher at 50,669.11, and the broader NSE Nifty was up 75.10 points or 0.50 per cent at 15,004.60. Asian Paints was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 2 per cent, followed by Titan, UltraTech Cement, Bharti Airtel, Infosys, Reliance Industries and M&M. On the other hand, Bajaj Auto, NTPC and SBI were the laggards. In the previous session, Sensex had ended 397 points or 0.78 per cent lower at 50,395.08. The broader NSE Nifty finished 101.45 points or 0.67 per cent down at 14,929.50. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market on Monday as they sold shares worth Rs 1,101.35 crore, as per exchange data. "We are now in a highly volatile phase where the market swings on a daily basis, responding to major triggers. The major trigger now is the US bond yield which has the potential to move huge money," said V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services. Rising bond yield triggers selling in equity markets and when yields cool down buying resumes, he said, adding that bear hammering and short covering are making markets excessively volatile. "Consecutive 2 days of institutional selling -- by both FIIs and DIIs -- weakened the Indian market. But this is not a directional trend. Post the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) meet and a possible affirmation of the dovish stance by the Fed, the market may resume its upward move. Presently top quality financials present a buying opportunity," he noted. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul were trading on a positive note in mid-session deals. US equities too ended with gains in the overnight session. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.83 per cent lower at USD 68.31 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-108
16-03-2021||Business||Tech Mahindra, Axis Bank strike deals||India’s deal street continues to be active even though the Covid-19 pandemic is still raging in parts of the country. Tech Mahindra on Monday said it will acquire a 70 per cent stake in Perigord Asset Holdings Ltd (Perigord) for an undisclosed sum. Perigord specialises in providing end-to-end packaging supply chain solutions to the life sciences industry such as artwork & labelling services, strategic consultancy and outsourcing. Tech Mahindra will acquire the Indian subsidiary of Perigord — Perigord Data Solutions India Pvt Ltd and Perigord Premedia (India) Pvt Ltd, while Mahindra Engineering Services (Europe) Ltd, a group firm, will acquire the other legal entities of Perigord. The acquisition comes days after Wipro said it will take over the London-based Capco (The Capital Markets Company) for $1.45 billion in cash. On Sunday, private sector lender Axis Bank disclosed that it will be taking an indirect stake in Max Bupa Health Insurance Company Ltd (MBHI). This came after it picked up 9.9 per cent in Fettle Tone LLP, a promoter of health insurer for Rs 90.8 crore. Fettle Tone currently holds around 55.6 per cent in MBHI. “Healthcare and Lifesciences (HLS) is a key vertical for Tech Mahindra and this acquisition will expand our footprint globally in these domains. Perigord’s proprietary platform and expertise in the artwork space and life sciences industry will add significant value to our offerings and capabilities,’’ Vivek Agarwal, president — BFSI, HLS and Corporate Development — at Tech Mahindra, said. The acquisition is a part of Tech Mahindra’s long-term growth plan to build presence across key markets in Ireland, Germany, the US, and India with enhanced global delivery. “Both companies’ future ambitions and desires to digitally transform the world of pharmaceutical packaging services will deliver long term innovative solutions to our clients that will future-proof their needs over the next 10 years,” Alan Leamy, chief executive officer of Perigord Asset Holdings Ltd, said. Meanwhile, Ratan Tata, chairman Emeritus of Tata Sons and chairman of Tata Trusts, has, in his personal capacity, acquired a stake in Pritish Nandy Communications through market deals last week. While the company did not give any details, the announcement led to its shares rising almost 10 per cent to close at Rs 23.50.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-108
16-03-2021||Business||Draft e-commerce policy suggests conformity assessment procedures||Conformity assessment procedures will be put in place to verify that goods and services sold on e-commerce platforms meet the required standards and technical regulations, according to the draft e-commerce policy. The policy, which is under discussion, also stated that actions and things which cannot be done by the online platform entities “can also not be done” by any of its associates and related parties. The government may, from time to time, notify parties which fall in the definition of associates and related parties, it said. “Conformity assessment procedures will be put in place in order to verify that goods and services sold, on e-commerce platforms, meet required standards and technical regulations, as prescribed by sector specific regulations/rules,” the draft said. These procedures are related to testing, verification and certification of goods and services, among others. It also said a long-run endeavour will be to convert GeM (government e-marketplace) into a marketplace where “ordinary consumers” could procure, increasing the efficiency in the Indian economy. At present, only the government departments and agencies are allowed to procure goods and services from the GeM portal. According to the draft policy, an e-commerce operator operating in a marketplace or hybrid mode will have to manage its relationship with sellers on its platform in an agnostic manner and without being partial to any of its sellers. It has talked about areas such as definition of e-commerce, code of conduct, creation of conducive environment, enhancing exports, monitoring, meeting regulatory challenges of the sector, handling of data, free and informed choice of consumers, fair competition, anti-counterfeit and anti-piracy. Last week, an inter-ministerial meeting chaired by the officials of the department for promotion of industry and internal trade had discussed this draft.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-108
16-03-2021||Business||Wholesale price-based inflation doubles to 4.17 per cent in February||The wholesale price-based inflation doubled to a 27-month high in February to 4.17 per cent, led by soaring fuel prices and an uptick in food prices. This effectively dims hopes for any policy rate reduction in the near term to spur economic growth amid the pandemic. The WPI inflation was 2.03 per cent in January and 2.26 per cent in February last year. After witnessing months of softening of prices, the food articles in February saw 1.36 per cent inflation. In January it was (-) 2.80 per cent. In vegetables the rate of price rise was (-)2.90 per cent in February against (-)20.82 per cent in January. In fuel and power, inflation stood at 0.58 per cent against a 4.78 per cent contraction in January “The doubling in WPI inflation to a 27-month high was broad-based, reflecting the rise in commodity prices brought on by the global risk-on sentiment, hardening of crude oil and fuel prices, as well as a fading of the favourable base effect for food items,” said Aditi Nayar, principal economist at Icra Ratings. She expects large upticks in the WPI inflation over the next three months with core and headline WPI rising to around 6 per cent in March. “We maintain our view that inflation dynamics will rule out any further rate cuts, with a status quo expected through 2021,” added Nayar. The RBI in its monetary policy last month kept interest rates unchanged for the fourth consecutive meeting and said that the near-term inflation outlook has turned favourable. Retail inflation, based on the consumer price index, was at 5.03 per cent in February, data released last week showed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-108
16-03-2021||Business||General insurance employees set to go on strike on Wednesday||Employees of public sector insurance companies, including LIC and four public sector general insurers, are set to up the ante against the government move to divest LIC and privatise a general insurance company. Following a two-day bank strike on Monday and Tuesday, general insurance employees are set to go on a strike on Wednesday (March 17, 2021) and LIC employees have called a strike on Thursday (March 18, 2021). Over 7,000 officers and employees from these government-owned insurance companies in Bengal are set to participate in the nationwide strike on these two days. Among the services that are likely to be affected include premium collection and payments at the offices of these insurance companies, claim settlement and underwriting of policies in both life insurance and general insurance, including health insurance. However, online payment facilities that have gained traction in the pandemic will remain functional, insurance industry officials said. In the Union budget, the government had announced its decision of strategic sale in one general insurance company in 2021-22 and introduce the initial public offer of LIC in the current fiscal. The government had also proposed in the budget to amend the Insurance Act, 1938 to increase the permissible FDI limit from 49 per cent to 74 per cent in insurance companies. Members of All India Insurance Employees’ Association (AIIEA) on Monday said that the reason for the strike call is three fold — the proposed LIC IPO, the decision to increase the FDI limit and a move to privatise a public sector general insurance company. Bank strike Rajen Nagar, president of All India Bank Employees Association, on Monday said that banking services were adversely affected not only in Bengal but in other parts of the country as well. Banking services, including branch banking, treasury operations, cheque clearances were among the services that were affected. According to the association, the social objective of providing insurance cover to the weaker sections will suffer a setback as the insurers target bigger policies to generate greater profit. The expansion into unprofitable rural areas will also take a backseat according to the association. AIIEA also questioned the flip-flop of government from its earlier decision (announced in union budget 2018) to consolidate three public sector general insurance companies – National Insurance, United India Assurance and Oriental India Insurance - into a single entity and list the same on the bourses to a straight strategic sale of one of the state owned general insurance company in Budget 2021. The union cabinet last July had approved a capital infusion of Rs 12,450 crore into these three insurance companies and dropped the plan to merge them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-109
16-03-2021||Business||Govt sets a floor price of Rs 1,161 per share for its offer for sale in Tata Communications||The Union government on Monday set a floor price of Rs 1,161 per share for its offer for sale (OFS) in Tata Communications. It will divest 10 per cent with an additional 6.12 per cent as greenshoe option. After this sale, the Centre will sell its remaining 2,85,00,000 shares to Panatone Finvest, an arm of Tata Sons. At present, the government holds 7,44,46,885 shares or 26.12 per cent of Tata Communications (formerly VSNL). At the floor price, the Centre will garner close to Rs 8,650 crore from the sale that will see its exit from the company. The floor price represents a discount of 10.42 per cent to the closing price of the Tata Communications scrip on the BSE on Monday. The government will initially sell up to 2,85,00,000 shares of Tata Communications, representing 10 per cent of its equity. The offer will open on Tuesday for non-retail investors and on Wednesday for retail investors and for those non-retail subscribers who choose to carry forward their unallocated bids. Here, a retail investor is an individual investor who places bids for not more than Rs 2 lakh across stock exchanges. Close to 10 per cent of the offer is reserved for them. The Centre added that it has an option to additionally sell 1,74,46,85 shares or 6.12 per cent of the company’s equity. The announcement came on a day the Sensex crashed 397 points following weak macro-economic numbers. The index moved 1035.71 points after opening lower at 50773.47. It settled 0.78 per cent lower at 50395.08. The NSE Nifty finished 101.45 points, or 0.67 per cent, down at 14929.50. Though the benchmark indices ended in the red, the primary market continues to witness good interest with six companies hitting the markets this week. They include Anupam Rasayan India (which opened for subscription on March 12), Craftsman Automation, Laxmi Organic Industries, Kalyan Jewellers, Suryodaya Small Finance Bank and Nazara Technologies Ltd. Anupam Rasayan’s IPO has already been subscribed 3.64 times. “While the long term structure of the market continues to remain positive, it may face some hurdles in the near term due to concerns over the bond yields, commodity prices and risk of increase in inflation. Even Nifty valuation at 21 times 2021-22 earnings per share is not inexpensive and demands consistent delivery of earnings. Rising bond yields may cap equity valuations as the RBI may have to do a fine balancing act to keep bond yields at lower levels while managing the government’s borrowing programme. Thus given the likelihood of high volatility continuing in the market for some time, investors would do well by accumulating good quality companies on decline in the market’’, Siddhartha Khemka, Head - retail research, Motilal Oswal Financial Services said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-109
16-03-2021||Business||Finance minister introduces Insurance Amendment Bill 2021 in Rajya Sabha||Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Monday introduced the Insurance Amendment Bill 2021 in the Rajya Sabha that seeks to increase FDI in insurance to 74 per cent from 49 per cent. The bill which amends the Insurance Act, 1938 was approved by the Union cabinet on Wednesday. Sitharaman had announced the higher FDI in the budget and had said the majority of directors on the board and key management persons would be resident Indians. At least 50 per cent of the directors would be independent, while a specified percentage of profits would be retained as a general reserve. The government has earlier allowed 100 per cent foreign direct investment in insurance intermediaries such as brokers and consultants. Fuel in GST Amid record-high fuel prices, Sitharaman said there was no proposal as of now to bring some fuel items under the Goods and Services Tax (GST). ‘‘At present, there is no proposal to bring crude petroleum, petrol, diesel, ATF and natural gas under GST,” Sitharaman said in a written reply to a question in the Lok Sabha. “So far, the GST Council, in which the states are also represented, has not made any recommendation for inclusion of these goods under GST,” she said. While the finance minister alluded to the role of states to bring petrol and diesel under GST and provide a much needed relief to the buyers, her deputy Anurag Thakur squarely put the onus on the states. In the Lok Sabha, Thakur said the Centre was ready to consider reducing the central taxes on fuel if the states first cut their taxes on petrol and diesel. “Aap bhi rajyon me kuchh kam kijiye, hum bhi yahan se kuchh karne ka vichar kar sakte hain (You do something in the states, we too may consider something here),” the junior finance minister said during Question Hour. “Dono ko milkar hi karna hoga (We have to do it together).” Thakur’s comment came as he tried to evade a direct reply to YSR Congress member P.V. Midhun Reddy, who had pinned him down on the rise in taxes on fuel. Sitharaman had sought a co-ordinated approach between the Centre and the states. Compensation States may face a GST compensation shortfall of Rs 3 lakh crore in the next financial year, a situation that will force them to borrow more from the markets, a report said. The states may face a shortfall of Rs 2.7-3 lakh crore as Goods and Services Tax (GST) compensation from the Centre next fiscal. Out of that amount, the shortfall from cess collections will be at Rs 1.6-2 lakh crore, according to an Icra report.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-109
