17-03-2021||Business||Sensex tanks 562 pts, Nifty cracks below 14,800||Dropping for the fourth straight session, equity benchmark Sensex tumbled 562.34 points on Wednesday following losses in index majors Reliance Industries, HDFC Bank and ICICI Bank amid a weak trend in global markets ahead of the US Federal Reserve's policy outcome. After a volatile session, the 30-share BSE index tanked 562.34 points or 1.12 per cent to close at 49,801.62. The broader NSE Nifty slumped 189.15 points or 1.27 per cent to 14,721.30.
ONGC was the top loser in the Sensex pack, declining around 5 per cent, followed by NTPC, Sun Pharma, SBI, IndusInd Bank, Bajaj Auto, PowerGrid and Reliance Industries.
On the other hand, ITC, Infosys, TCS and HDFC were among the gainers.
Domestic equities dropped for the fourth consecutive day as concerns pertaining to recent rise in COVID-19 cases in various parts of the country and high inflation continued to weigh on investors' sentiments, said Binod Modi, Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities.
Additionally, he noted that weak cues from global markets ahead of the US Federal Reserve meeting outcome caused selling in domestic equities. The two-day meet started on Tuesday.
All key sectoral indices witnessed selling pressure with PSU banks, metals and auto indices witnessing steep correction.
Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Tokyo and Seoul ended on a negative note, while Hong Kong was in the positive terrain.
Stock exchanges in Europe were largely trading in the red in mid-session deals.
Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.89 per cent lower at USD 67.78 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-107
17-03-2021||Business||Sensex, Nifty open on cautious note ahead of Fed policy outcome||Equity benchmarks Sensex and Nifty opened on a cautious note on Wednesday, tracking tepid global cues ahead of the US Federal Reserve's policy outcome. After starting flat, the 30-share BSE index gained momentum and was trading 128.84 points or 0.26 per cent higher at 50,492.80, and the broader NSE Nifty was up 30.50 points or 0.20 per cent at 14,940.95. L&T was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 2 per cent, followed by HCL Tech, Tech Mahindra, HDFC Bank, TCS and M&M. On the other hand, Asian Paints, ONGC, NTPC and Nestle India were among the laggards. In the previous session, Sensex ended 31.12 points or 0.06 per cent lower at 50,363.96, and Nifty slipped 19.05 points or 0.13 per cent to 14,910.45. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net buyers in the capital market on Tuesday as they bought shares worth Rs 1,692.31 crore, as per exchange data. Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities said domestic equities look to be flat to marginally good at the moment. Clearly, mounting concerns with regards to higher inflation, bond yields and a recent spike in new Covid-19 cases in select states have weighed on investors' sentiments. Outcome of the Fed policy meeting will equally be important for domestic markets in the near term as this can potentially influence FPIs flows into equities and INR. However, India continues to remain as the most preferred destination for investors on better growth prospects, he said. US equities finished marginally lower ahead of the FOMC meeting outcome. The two-day Fed meet kick-started on Tuesday. Given a faster rollout of vaccination process with over 32 per cent of the US population vaccinated at-least first dose so far and clearance of a mega USD 1.9 trillion fiscal stimulus, a faster recovery in economic growth looks to be imminent. Hence, Fed's earlier stance of not tweaking rates till 2023 might be changed, Modi said. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul were trading on a negative note in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.23 per cent lower at USD 68.23 per barrel. Equity benchmarks Sensex and Nifty opened on a cautious note on Wednesday, tracking tepid global cues ahead of the US Federal Reserve's policy outcome. After starting flat, the 30-share BSE index gained momentum and was trading 128.84 points or 0.26 per cent higher at 50,492.80, and the broader NSE Nifty was up 30.50 points or 0.20 per cent at 14,940.95. L&T was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 2 per cent, followed by HCL Tech, Tech Mahindra, HDFC Bank, TCS and M&M. On the other hand, Asian Paints, ONGC, NTPC and Nestle India were among the laggards. In the previous session, Sensex ended 31.12 points or 0.06 per cent lower at 50,363.96, and Nifty slipped 19.05 points or 0.13 per cent to 14,910.45. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net buyers in the capital market on Tuesday as they bought shares worth Rs 1,692.31 crore, as per exchange data. Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities said domestic equities look to be flat to marginally good at the moment. Clearly, mounting concerns with regards to higher inflation, bond yields and a recent spike in new Covid-19 cases in select states have weighed on investors' sentiments. Outcome of the Fed policy meeting will equally be important for domestic markets in the near term as this can potentially influence FPIs flows into equities and INR. However, India continues to remain as the most preferred destination for investors on better growth prospects, he said. US equities finished marginally lower ahead of the FOMC meeting outcome. The two-day Fed meet kick-started on Tuesday. Given a faster rollout of vaccination process with over 32 per cent of the US population vaccinated at-least first dose so far and clearance of a mega USD 1.9 trillion fiscal stimulus, a faster recovery in economic growth looks to be imminent. Hence, Fed's earlier stance of not tweaking rates till 2023 might be changed, Modi said. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul were trading on a negative note in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.23 per cent lower at USD 68.23 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-107
17-03-2021||Business||Kesoram Industries raises Rs 2,060 crore by issuing bonds||Kesoram Industries has raised Rs 2,060 crore by issuing bonds to institutions such as Goldman Sachs and Edelweiss, offering as much as 20.75 per cent interest in order to repay the debts of a clutch of 11 Indian banks and infuse much needed working capital for the optimum operation of the cement business. The funds flowed into the company through two separate instruments — a Rs 1603.50-crore of non-convertible debentures carrying a tenure of a little under five years and Rs 459.9 crore in the form of optionally convertible debentures with a tenure of 17 months. The company says efforts will be made to repay the bonds, especially the non-convertible debentures (NCD), ahead of the maturity through a mix of equity and fresh debt. “This is certainly an interim arrangement. We do not foresee paying this interest for the entire period. The NCDs are being issued to provide an exit to the Indian banks and infuse liquidity to the business,” P. Radhakrishnan, whole-time director and CEO of Kesoram Industries, explained. The company — the flagship of the Basant Kumar Birla group — has cement production capacities of 7.25 million tonnes in South India, apart from a rayon and transparent paper plant in Bengal. It was unable to run the business to full capacity because of lack of liquidity. Kesoram also defaulted in loan payment obligations because of a cash crunch. Costly option Corporate sources said the banks could not come to unison on how to restructure the debt, forcing the company to go for the  option to completely pay them off by raising capital via the bond market even though it came at exorbitant rates. According to the one time settlement formula, banks are getting 80 per cent of their outstanding in cash and the rest, amounting to about Rs 600 crore, through a mix of equity and zero per cent optionally convertible redeemable preference shares. “Once the business starts performing and generates sufficient cash, the company will look to raise equity, which may come from the promoters as well as outsiders,” said a source aware of the development. Kesoram then plans to tap the banks again to raise fresh debt, which may be available in the range of 10 per cent, to pay off the NCD holders. Next step In effect, the company is paying off Indian banks with high-cost NCD money, hoping to stabilise the business and run it profitably. Once it is achieved with liquidity infusion, it plans to tap the Indian banks again to raise fresh debt at a cheaper rate to pay off debenture holders. The exercise is the latest attempt by the Manjushree Khaitan-led management to run Kesoram in a sustainable manner. In the past, the company hived off the loss making tyre business to a separate entity to reduce debt burden. Prior to that, it sold out a tyre unit in Haridwar to pare debt.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-107
17-03-2021||Business||Nokia planning to cut up to 10,000 jobs||Wireless network maker Nokia says it is planning to cut up to 10,000 jobs, or over 10 per cent of its staff, to reduce costs as it invests in research and development and tries to cement its role as a key supplier of 5G technology. The restructuring means the number of staff is expected to fall to 80,000-85,000 employees over a period of up to two years, Nokia said on Tuesday. It should reduce costs by $715 million by 2023. The Finnish company didn’t specify countries or geographical areas affected by the measure but said the cuts would be carried out across its main four business units. “Decisions that may have a potential impact on our employees are never taken lightly,” Nokia CEO Pekka Lundmark said in a statement. “Ensuring we have the right setup and capabilities is a necessary step to deliver sustainable long-term performance.” The company based in Espoo, Finland, said the expected savings would “offset increased investments in R&D, future capabilities and costs related to salary inflation.” Apart from increasing investments in 5G — the new generation of broadband technology where Nokia competes with China’s Huawei and Sweden’s Ericsson and lately also with South Korea’s Samsung — Nokia said it would also invest in cloud and digital infrastructure. Lundmark, a former executive with the company in the 1990s, took over Nokia’s top spot in August, and has said he aims to make Nokia the leader in 5G, even at the expense of the company’s profitability in the short-term. In a period of six months he has revamped the company’s strategy and organisation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-107
17-03-2021||Business||BPCL selloff in 6 months||The government, which is set to fully exit Tata Communications, is optimistic about some of its other proposed divestments such as BPCL and Air India. This was indicated by the department of investment and public asset management (Dipam) secretary Tuhin Kanta Pandey in an interview to a TV channel. He said while the BPCL stake sale will be completed in the second quarter of the next fiscal, the selloff in Air India will be done in the first quarter. Meanwhile, the government’s share sale of 16.12 per cent in Tata Communications, previously known as VSNL, was subscribed 2.19 times by institutional investors, Pandey said on Tuesday. The clearing price was greater than the floor price. The issue will open for retail investors on Wednesday. The Union government had set a floor price of Rs 1,161 per share. Here, he pointed out that based on the price discovery, the Centre will be selling the rest of the stake to the Tata group. On Tuesday, Anurag Thakur, minister of state for finance, said Dipam is also processing the sale of non-core assets of two strategic sale-bound PSUs — BEML and Bridge & Roof Ltd. “The government has so far given an in-principle approval for strategic divestment of 35 CPSEs and subsidiaries/units/joint ventures of central public sector enterprises out of which eight have been completed,’’ he said in a reply to a question. BPCL completes Bengal projects Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd announced completion of two projects worth Rs 270 crore in Bengal. The company, which has a combined 38 per cent market share of petrol and diesel in Calcutta, modernised Budge Budge oil terminal with an investment of Rs 170 crore. Built at the turn of 20th century, the terminal is capable of meeting entire requirement of the city and adjoining districts, after doubling capacity. Moreover, BPCL also built a pipeline for Rs 100 crore to connect oil jetty at Haldia port to its installation nearby, ensuring smooth function.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-107
17-03-2021||Business||Vedanta Resources Plc raises open offer price for buying shares in its flagship Indian firm ||Anil Agarwal-led Vedanta Resources Plc on Tuesday raised the open offer price for buying shares in its flagship Indian firm to Rs 235 per share, nearly 4 per cent higher than the current trading price. In January, Vedanta Resources had offered to buy up to 10 per cent in Vedanta Ltd at Rs 160 apiece. Meanwhile, Vedanta Resources Finance II plc, a wholly-owned indirect subsidiary of Vedanta Resources Ltd VRL), has issued bonds worth $ 1.2 billion which will become due in March 2025. Last month, Vedanta Resources while announcing the pricing of the bonds has said that they will be guaranteed by the company and its wholly owned indirect subsidiaries — Twin Star Holdings Ltd and Welter Trading Ltd. The company had disclosed that proceeds of the bonds will be used for the acquisition of equity shares of its Indian subsidiary, if decided and in accordance with applicable laws. The rest of the proceeds, if any, will be used primarily to service existing debt of the guarantors. The bonds which were offered were sold in a private offering to qualified institutional buyers (QIBs). In a regulatory filing on Tuesday, Vedanta Ltd, the Indian arm, said that Citicorp is acting as a trustee for the holders of the bonds, As per the terms and conditions of the bonds, the promoter group entities are not permitted to create any encumbrance over any assets directly held by them unless certain conditions are fulfilled. Further, Vedanta Resources and its subsidiaries are required to retain control over Vedanta Ltd or, directly or indirectly, own more than 50 per cent of the equity of the latter for so long as the bonds are outstanding. The fund raising comes ahead of an open offer in its India unit where it is looking to buy as many as 37.17 crore or 10 per cent, at Rs 160 per share. At that price, the total consideration of the deal would be about Rs 5,948 crore. The bond issue had received a good response with reports saying that it got $2.6 billion in offers from about 150 accounts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-107
17-03-2021||Business||Emami Agro forays into processed foods||Emami Agrotech Ltd has ventured into the processed food category with the introduction of soya chunks, hoping to cash in on the heightened awareness about immunity and wellness. The company, arguably the second largest edible oil producer in India, is tapping the Bengal market initially as it is the biggest consumer of the rich source of vegetable protein. Soya chunks is estimated to be a Rs 1,000-crore market in the organised sector and Bengal accounts for 35 per cent of it. “We hope to corner a 10-15 share of the Bengal market over the next two years,” Sudhakar Desai, CEO of Emami Agrotech, said. Ruchi is the market leader in soya chunks at present. Emami said the chunks are being fortified with three immunity building nutrients, apart from zinc, to address consumer demand on wellness. The company earns a revenue of Rs 12,500 crore from edible oils and about Rs 500 crore from other businesses such as spices, vanaspati and baking fats and bio fuels. It plans to diversify into more processed food products going forward. “There are many products under research and development. It will be premature to say what we would bring to the market and when,” Desai explained. Founded by the promoters of FMCG major Emami Ltd, the company started operations a decade back with edible oils. It now has a 9,000- tonnes-per-day capacity, with two refineries in Haldia and Krishnapatnam.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-108
17-03-2021||Business||Finance minister says not all state-owned banks will be privatised||Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Tuesday said “not all state owned banks” would be privatised and the interest of employees would be protected even after privatisation as the two-day bank strike came to an end. “We have announced a Public Enterprise Policy, where we have identified 4 areas where public sector presence will be there, in this, financial sector too is there. Not all banks are going to be privatised,” Sitharaman told reporters after the meeting of the Union.cabinet. She said the banks that are privatised would continue to operate, while the interests of workers after privatisation would also be protected "Whether their salaries or scale or pension, all will be taken care of," the finance minister said. The public sector enterprise policy “very clearly” states that the Centre will continue to operate public sector banks. “So, just to quickly say that all public banks will be sold off, is not right," she said.
Sitharaman's comments came on the second day of the two-day bank strike called by the United Forum of Bank Unions that is protesting against the proposed privatisation of two state-owned banks. Around 10 lakh bank employees reportedly participated in the strike, affecting banking services. The minister said that the banks are being privatised because the government wants to make financial institutions better equipped and more sustainable. She gave the example of State Bank of India and added that the focus is on amalgamating banks that are big enough to meet the aspirations of the country. The 51% rule Bank unions are concerned about the Modi government's ability to introduce a legislation and directly make amendments to section 3 part 2B(C) of The Banking Companies (Acquisition and Transfer of Undertakings) Act, 1970. This section says that public sector banks may after consultation with the RBI and with previous sanction of the central government raise equity provided the central government shall at all times hold not less than 51 per cent of the paid-up capital. According to the unions, a money bill introduced in the Lok Sabha can bring in the requisite changes.
As an example, the Finance Bill 2021, brought about amendments to the Life Insurance Corporation Act,1956, the unions said. With inputs from Calcutta Bureau||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-108
17-03-2021||Business||Adani Ports to start work on Colombo terminal||Adani Ports and Special Economic Zone (APSEZ) will partner John Keells Holdings plc and Sri Lankan Port Authority to develop the west container terminal (WCT) at the Colombo port in Sri Lanka. As the first-ever Indian port operator in Sri Lanka, Adani Ports will hold a 51 per cent stake in the terminal partnership. WCT will be developed to reach a capacity of 3.5 million TEUs (Twenty-Foot Equivalent Units). The Colombo port is one of the most preferred regional hubs for the transhipment of Indian containers  with 45 per cent of Colombo’s transhipment volumes originating from or destined to an APSEZ terminal in India, APSEZ said. The company added that it had received a letter of intent from the ministry of ports and shipping of Sri Lanka and the Sri Lanka Ports Authority after an approval from the Sri Lankan cabinet of ministers for the development and operations of WCT in Colombo. “The WCT will be developed on a build, operate and transfer basis for a period of 35 years as a public-private partnership. WCT will have a quay length of 1,400 meters and alongside depth of 20 meters, thereby making it a prime transhipment cargo destination to handle ultra-large container carriers,” APSEZ said. The project is expected to boost WCT’s container handling capacity and also consolidate Sri Lanka’s locational advantage as one of the world's top strategic nodes along the busiest transhipment route.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-108
17-03-2021||Business||Asset reconstruction company to be formed by end of month||The proposed bad bank — the asset reconstruction company (ARC) proposed in the budget — will reportedly be formed by the end of this month. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had announced in the budget last month the creation of the ARC to take over the  non-performing assets (NPAs) of domestic banks. Stress tests by the Reserve Bank of India have indicated the perils of bad loans of banks. The tests in January forecast gross NPAs by public sector banks to rise to 16.2 per cent in September 2021 from 9.7 per cent in September 2020. Bad loans in private sector banks could inch up to 7.9 per cent in September 2021 from 4.6 per cent a year ago. The NPA of  foreign banks are forecast to rise to 5.4 per cent from 2.5 per cent, taking the system-wide bad loans to 13.5 per cent. Since the announcement, there have been questions about the ownership or control of the ARC. A CNBC TV-18 report on Tuesday said the national ARC may be formed in the next two weeks. The government has given its approval to provide sovereign guarantee to the security receipts that will be issued by the ARC. However, the transfer of bad loans will not happen immediately. The report, citing sources, said close to Rs 2 lakh crore of NPAs will be transferred to the ARC and this will be done in multiple tranches. According to a recent note from Bank of America Securities India, the proposed bank should be owned by the government as state-funding is more capital efficient, while it speeds up the implementation process. Bank of America Securities has estimated  the net non-performing loans of banks at 2.8 per cent or Rs 2,89,500 crore, which is 1.3 per cent of the gross domestic product as of March last year. It said the bad bank offers  an opportunity to  improve asset quality when real lending rates are falling. The key question is who will fund it. If state-run banks or financial institutions fund it, the ARC will largely take over their bad loans. In this scenario, banks would transfer their non-performing assets  against security receipts issued by the asset reconstruction company.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-108
17-03-2021||Business||Govt approves setting up of a Development Finance Institution||The government on Tuesday has approved the setting up of a Development Finance Institution (DFI) with an initial paid-up capital of Rs 20,000 crore enabling the entity to leverage the capital and raise as much as Rs 3 lakh crore to fund infrastructure projects. The proposed legislation — the DFI was announced by finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman in the budget — will be introduced in the current session of Parliament. “The Cabinet has cleared this bill, through which we will have an institution and institutional arrangement, which will help in increasing long-term funds,” Sitharaman told reporters after the meeting of the Union cabinet. “Through this, we expect to raise a considerable amount from the market,”she said. The government expects marquee pension funds and sovereign funds to invest using the DFI route. The new entity will get tax benefits over a 10-year period. The Indian Stamp Act will also be amended for the benefit of the financial institution. The government also plans to give the institution certain assurances which will reduce the cost of funds, the finance minister said. Dibyanshu, partner at Khaitan & Company, said the tax benefits and stamp duty concessions for 10 years to the development FI should solicit interest from pension funds and sovereign wealth funds which are the key players in infrastructure. The finance minister said the initial grant to the DFI will be Rs 5,000 crore and additional increments will be made with the upper limit of Rs 5,000 crore. On speculation that infrastructure finance body IIFCL would be merged with proposed DFI, financial services secretary Debasish Panda said the new institution will start on a “clean slate”. Once the institution is set up, its board will decide about acquisition or merger of other companies, he said. “This is a very important initiative for bolstering the financing needs of the infrastructure sector. Relieving the banks of the asset-liability mismatch inherent in bank lending to infra, this institution should be enabled to provide long term capital to the sector,” Soumitra Majumdar, partner, J. Sagar Associates said “On the liability side, it should be permitted to access all forms of long-term capital, domestically as well as internationally. The bank needs to be manned by finance and sector experts, for effective monitoring of the projects,” Majumdar said. Sitharaman said initially the new institution would be government-owned, with its stake being cut gradually to 26 per cent. The DFI will have a professional board. It will have 50 per cent non-official directors and would be empowered to appoint and remove wholetime directors. Market-driven emoluments would be given to managing directors and deputy managing directors of to attract "best" of talents, Sitharaman said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-108
