18-03-2021||Business||FDI worth Rs 26,000 crore received in insurance sector since 2015, informs Sitharaman||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Thursday said India received FDI worth Rs 26,000 crore in the insurance sector after 2015 when the foreign investment limit was raised to 49 per cent from 24 per cent. Replying to a debate on the Insurance (Amendment) Bill, 2021, Sitharaman said insurance companies are facing liquidity pressure and that is why the government was proposing to increase the FDI limit further. She said the foreign direct investment (FDI) is aimed at supplementing the domestic long term capital. Sitharaman said hike in foreign investment limit to 74 per cent will help meet the growing capital requirement of insurance companies. The minister stressed that the bill to hike FDI limit in insurance has been brought after extensive consultations by sector regulator IRDAI. The bill seeks to increase the FDI limit in the insurance sector to 74 per cent. The announcement regarding it was made by the minister while presenting the Union Budget on February 1. Currently, the permissible FDI limit in life and general insurance stands at 49 per cent, with ownership and management control with Indians.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-106
18-03-2021||Business||Markets track losses for 5th straight session||Extending its losing streak to the fifth consecutive session, equity benchmark Sensex tanked 585 points on Thursday, tracking losses in index majors Infosys, RIL and TCS. After rallying nearly 500 points earlier in the day, the 30-share BSE index gave up all gains to end 585.10 points or 1.17 per cent lower at 49,216.52. The broader NSE Nifty slumped 163.45 points or 1.11 per cent at 14,557.85. HCL Tech was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding around 4 per cent, followed by Infosys, Dr Reddy's, TCS, Reliance Industries, Tech Mahindra and NTPC. On the other hand, ITC, Bajaj Auto, M&M, Maruti and Bharti Airtel were among the gainers. "Having seen a brisk gap-up opening on positive global cues, domestic equities fell sharply for the fifth consecutive day as sharp rise in coronavirus cases in the country made investors jittery," said Binod Modi, Head Strategy at Reliance Securities. A sharp rise in daily COVID-19 cases in India has raised apprehensions about sustainability of ongoing rebound in corporate earnings, he noted, adding that the mounting concerns of possible fresh economic restrictions made enthusiasm of dovish commentary from Federal Reserve short lived for domestic markets. After its two-day policy meeting, the US Fed reassured investors that it expects to keep its key interest rate near zero through 2023. Stock exchanges on Wall Street ended with gains in the overnight session. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul ended on a positive note. Bourses in Europe were also trading higher in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.40 per cent lower at USD 67.73 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-106
18-03-2021||Business||Sensex surges over 400 points  in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex rallied over 400 points in early trade on Thursday, led by gains in ICICI Bank, HDFC Bank and Reliance Industries amid positive cues from global markets and foreign fund inflows. The 30-share BSE index was trading 436.79 points or 0.88 per cent higher at 50,238.41, and the broader NSE Nifty was up 131.55 points or 0.89 per cent at 14,852.85. Bajaj Finance was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 3 per cent, followed by ONGC, M&M, Maruti, ICICI Bank, SBI, HFC twins and Reliance Industries. On the other hand, Infosys and Dr Reddy's were the laggards. In the previous session, Sensex ended 562.34 points or 1.12 per cent lower at 49,801.62, while Nifty slumped 189.15 points or 1.27 per cent to finish at 14,721.30. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net buyers in the capital market on Wednesday as they bought shares worth Rs 2,625.82 crore, as per exchange data. According to V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services, the outcome of the US Federal Reserve's policy meet is very positive for equity markets. "The Fed's accommodative monetary stance is appropriate and will continue through 2023 mean the ample liquidity condition and the low-interest rate will sustain for an extended period of time. "The better than expected news is the Fed raising US GDP growth to 6.5 per cent and signal at inflation above 2 per cent will be tolerated for some time - Very good news for the bulls," he noted. After its two-day policy meeting, the US Fed reassured investors that it expects to keep its key interest rate near zero through 2023. Stock exchanges on Wall Street ended with gains in the overnight session. A concern in India, however, is the second wave of Covid-19 attacks in parts of the country, particularly in Maharashtra. But, going by experiences this is unlikely to impact the market much, he said, adding that the second wave in the US and Europe (much less in intensity) didn't impact markets. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul were trading on a positive note in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.76 per cent lower at USD 67.48 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-106
18-03-2021||Business||Vodafone adds subscribers first time since October 2019||For the first time since October 2019, cash-strapped Vodafone Idea Ltd has added subscribers. It added 1.7 million wireless customers in January, taking its wireless user base to 286 million. Bharti Airtel led the gain in subscriber base, adding 5.9 million users in January. Reliance Jio Infocomm was hit by slowing subscriber growth, adding around 2 million customers. Despite the addition, Vodafone Idea’s market share shrunk marginally to 24.58 per cent month-on-month, while Airtel expanded 29.62 per cent as on January 31. At 35.30 per cent, Reliance Jio remains India’s largest telco by market share. It is the No. 1 player with 410.7 million wireless subscribers, followed by Airtel’s 344.6 million and Vodafone’s 286 million. “All service areas except Mumbai showed growth in wireless subscribers during January. Uttar Pradesh (west) service area showed maximum growth of 6.45 per cent in its wireless subscriber base during the month,” Trai said in its monthly data. But, in terms of active subscribers, Bharti continued to be the leader with 97.44% or 335.8 million active users, while only 79.01% base of Jio was active with 324.5 million users, at the end of January 2021. Vi trailed behind with an active user base of 256.3 million users, which is 89.63% of its total base. Tariff hike Analysts said telcos are looking at the option of increasing the average revenue per user (ARPU) and some of the measures being considered include a reduced validity period of postpaid plans or even cutting down on data and voice allowances on existing prepaid plans without changing the pack value. This could drive customer migrations to higher-value plans or even to booster packs once their allowances expire, both of which would be tariff accretive for incumbent operators. Airtel has said that industry average revenue per user (ARPU) needs to rise to Rs 200 in the near-term, it has repeatedly said it won’t take the lead in raising tariffs but would definitely follow if either Vi or Jio raises rates. Vodafone Idea which had an ARPU of Rs 121 – lower than Airtel’s Rs 166 and Jio’s Rs 151 – in the December quarter, was slated to raise tariffs by the March-end. But that plan seems to have been shelved after Jio last month launched offers on its 4G feature phone – JioPhone – seemingly to target the country’s remaining 300 million feature phone user.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-106
18-03-2021||Business||BPCL share price falls 5 per cent after declaring second interim dividend||Shares of Bharat Petroleum Corporation (BPCL) on Wednesday fell around 5 per cent as the Street was left disappointed by its second interim dividend. The oil refiner on Tuesday announced that it will be paying an interim dividend of Rs 5 per share. This fell short of market expectations of a payout of anywhere between Rs 30 and Rs 60 per share based on the proceeds from the sale of its stake in Numaligarh Refinery and the recent liquidiation of some of its treasury shares. Earlier this month, BPCL had announced that it will exit Numaligarh Refinery in Assam by selling its entire stake to a consortium of Oil India Ltd and Engineers India Ltd for Rs 9,876 crore. The sale of the refinery would clear the way for the privatisation of India’s second-largest fuel retailer. Its board had also given the nod to sell treasury shares, which came after the merger with Kochi Refinery, held by BPCL Trust.  Thereafter, close to Rs 5,500 crore of treasury shares, or 5.81 per cent of its equity, were liquidated. Among brokerages, Emkay had expected a one-time special dividend of Rs 40-50 per share and its analysts said that the sale of the Numaligarh refinery is an important event in its divestment process. On Tuesday, Dipam secretary Tuhin Kanta Pandey had said the BPCL stake sale would be completed in the second quarter of the next fiscal. The government owns 114.91 crore shares, or 52.98 per cent, in BPCL. On the BSE, the BPCL scrip fell 4.83 per cent, or by Rs 21.90, to settle at Rs 431.90.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-106
18-03-2021||Business||EPFO urges Bengal govt to extend PF benefits to casual employees||The Employees’ Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) has urged the Bengal government to consider extending the benefit of Employees Provident Fund and Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1952 to casual employees working in various ministries, departments and autonomous bodies under the control of the state government. All direct employees of state government departments and organisations get the benefit of provident fund. However, certain activities involving casual workers such as watch-ward, house-keeping, data entry operators, para teachers, anganwadi sevikas and others who are either outsourced from other agencies and contractors or employed on ad-hoc or contractual or daily wage basis directly by different departments of the government do not have social security benefits such as provident fund, pension and insurance coverage. “We have requested the government to consider extending various benefits under EPF and MP Act to these workers and issue suitable statutory directions. This will be a great help towards widening the social security benefits to each and every working person in the state,” said Navendu Rai, regional PF Commissioner – I, Calcutta. However, government sources said a key headwind in this case is the fiscal situation of the state exchequer. In the case of EPF, both the employee and the employer contribute equally. Bengal’s neighbouring state Bihar has taken a step towards providing EPF benefits towards teachers and librarians posted in panchayat institutions and civic bodies and officials said that a similar move could also benefit employees in Bengal to have a social security cover from the organisation. Bengal government has budgeted salary expenditure of Rs 59,166.09 crore and pension and retirement benefits of Rs 21,262.79 crore in 2021-22, both growing by 4.45 per cent and 8.35 per cent respectively over the revised estimate of 2020-21. Home guards appointed by the state under the West Bengal Home Guard Act, 1962 also do not have access to such benefits. The social security bulwark has accordingly approached the state government to tap into this segment of contractual and casual workers and requested the latter to issue requisite directions to all departments.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-106
18-03-2021||Business||Equity info in income tax department lacks clarity||Analysts have expressed concern over the income tax department’s move to actively start tracking capital gains arising from the sale of mutual funds and shares and dividend received on shares. The information will be provided to the income tax department beyond a limit but without any ceiling. The details will now come pre-filled in the tax returns to ensure ease of filing, according to the latest income tax department notification. Certain entities, including financial institutions such as banks, mutual fund houses, registrars and bond issuers are required to report transactions beyond a specified limit in the financial year to the tax department. These transactions are known as specified financial transactions under the 114E of the Income Tax Act 1962. “These details will be captured in the pre-filled income-tax forms and any discrepancy may invite queries. It will be interesting to see how ‘capital gains’ reporting actually pans out as it includes certain finer nuances,” Vinita Krishnan, director of Khaitan & Co, said. Narayan Jain, tax advocate and chairman, CCI Professionals Forum, said: “The monetary limits should be prescribed under the newly inserted sub rule (5A) in Rule 114 E of Income Tax Rules for reporting of capital gains, dividend and interest. Such limits are there, for instance, in case of cash deposit in a bank or post office limit if an amount aggregates to Rs 10 lakh or more in a fiscal”. “The reporting agency may not be in a position to compute capital gains or loss in the absence of cost of listed securities or units of mutual fund and date of its acquisition. In case of LTCG, one may claim the benefit of indexation. These issues need to be addressed.” “The new rule prescribed multiple agencies for reporting capital gains, it should be specifically prescribed to avoid unnecessary duplication of reporting,” Jain said. The notification said for making pre-filled income tax returns, agencies like stock exchanges, depositories, clearing corporations, registrars, banks, companies, Post Master General and non-bank lenders have to issue statements of financial transactions by their clients “in such form, at such frequency, and in such manner, as may be specified" by a designated official. Principal Director General of Income Tax (Systems) or the Director General of Income Tax (Systems), are authorised to seek such information with the approval of Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT), said the notification.  The change brought out by the Income-tax (4th Amendment) Rules, 2021, is effective immediately, the notification said. Narayan Jain, Tax Advocate and Chairman, CCI Professionals Forum said “the monetary limits should be prescribed under newly inserted sub rule (5A) in Rule 114 E of Income Tax Rules for reporting of capital gains, dividend and interest. Such limits are there for instance, in case of cash deposit in a bank or post office limit is an amount aggregating to Rs. 10 Lakhs or more in a financial year.” “The reporting agency may not be in a position to compute capital gains or loss in absence of cost of listed securities or units of mutual fund and date of its acquisition. In case of LTCG one may claim the benefit of indexation. These issues need to be properly addressed. The new rule prescribed multiple reporting agencies for reporting capital gains, it should be specifically prescribed to avoid unnecessary duplication of reporting,” Jain added. Till now around 16 kinds of high-value transaction such as cash deposited to saving bank accounts, purchase of shares, debentures, mutual funds, buyback of shares worth more than Rs 10 lakh on an aggregate basis during a financial year, credit card payments of Rs 1 lakh or more in cash or in any mode of Rs 10 lakh or more during a financial year, were reported.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-106
18-03-2021||Business||India to rely less on Saudi oil imports||Indian state refiners are planning to cut oil imports from Saudi Arabia by about a quarter in May, in an escalating stand-off with Riyadh following Opec’s decision to ignore calls from New Delhi to help the global economy with higher supply. Two sources familiar with the discussions said the move was part of the government’s drive to cut dependence on crude from West Asia. Indian Oil, Bharat Petroleum Corporation, Hindustan Petroleum Corporation and Mangalore Refinery and Petrochemicals are preparing to lift about 10.8 million barrels in May, the sources said on condition of anonymity. State refiners, which control about 60 per cent  of India’s 5 million barrels per day (bpd) refining capacity, together import an average 14.7-14.8 million barrels of Saudi oil in a month, the sources said. India, the world’s third-biggest oil importer and consumer, imports more than 80 per cent of its oil needs and relies heavily on West Asia. Hit hard by rising oil prices, oil minister Dharmendra Pradhan has repeatedly called on the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries (Opec) and its allies, known as Opec+, to ease supply curbs. He has blamed Saudi’s voluntary cuts for contributing to a spike in global oil prices. Opec+ decided this month to extend most cuts into April. Responding to Pradhan’s request, Saudi energy minister Prince Abdulaziz bin Salman suggested India dip into strategic reserves filled with cheaper oil bought last year. India’s oil ministry responded by asking refiners to speed up their diversification of crude sources and reduce reliance on West Asia. Indian refiners could not cut April oil imports from Saudi Arabia as nominations were placed before the Opec+ decision in early March, the sources said, adding that plans for May were preliminary and final May nominations would be known in early April. Saudi Arabia has cut April oil supplies for some Asian refiners but has maintained average monthly volumes for Indian refiners. The Kingdom has, however, rejected demand from Indian companies for extra supplies. The West Asia’s share of India’s overall imports has already plunged to a 22-month low in February. In February, the United States emerged as the second biggest supplier to India after Iraq, while Saudi Arabia, which has consistently been one of India’s top two suppliers, slipped to No. 4 for the first time since at least January 2006. Two Indian refiners — IOC and MRPL — have also issued tenders seeking oil for delivery in May.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-107
18-03-2021||Business||Aditya Birla board approves IPO of Birla Sun Life AMC||Aditya Birla Capital Ltd on Wednesday announced that its board has given in-principle approval for  an initial public offering (IPO) of its arm Aditya Birla Sun Life AMC. Aditya Birla Sun Life AMC Ltd, the investment manager of Aditya Birla Sun Life Mutual Fund, is a joint venture between the Aditya Birla group and Sun Life Financial Inc of Canada. ABCL is the holding company for the financial services businesses of the Aditya Birla group. The company did not share any other details. Aditya Birla Sun Life AMC has total domestic assets under management of over Rs 2,38,000 crore and over 70 lakh investor folios for the September quarter of 2020. It has a pan-India presence of more than 300 locations. Sun Life has operations in various markets worldwide, including Canada, the US, the UK, Ireland, Hong Kong, the Philippines and Japan. At present, HDFC AMC, UTI AMC, Nippon Life India AMC and Shriram AMC are listed on domestic bourses. Nazara Tech The IPO of gaming firm Nazara Technologies opened for subscription on Wednesday. The share float with a price band of Rs 1,100-1,101 a share will conclude on March 19. At the upper end of the band, the IPO is expected to fetch Rs 583 crore. On Tuesday, the company said it has mopped up a little over Rs 261 crore from anchor investors. The firm’s IPO decided to allocate 23,73,395 shares to 43 anchor investors at Rs 1,101 per share.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-107
18-03-2021||Business||Benchmark indices come under pressure for fourth straight session||Benchmark indices came under pressure for the fourth straight session as investors remained cautious ahead of the Federal Reserve policy outcome even as factors such as an uptick in inflation and rising number of Covid-19 cases weighed on the sentiment. While the Sensex tumbled 562.34 points, the broader NSE Nifty slumped 189.15 points, or 1.27 per cent, to 14721.30. Experts feel that share prices are likely to face hurdles such as rising bond yields and dearer commodity prices which could have implications on the RBI’s monetary policy. On Wednesday, Standard & Poor’s (S&P) said India and the Philippines are the most vulnerable during the current times of “reflation trade” that have seen a rise in US bond yields even as it warned that these economies could also see capital outflows which could lead to central banks hiking interest rates. The rating agency recalled events during the taper tantrum of 2013 since India and Indonesia had to hike key policy rates then as their currencies plunged against the dollar. “In our view, India and the Philippines are the most vulnerable at the current juncture. Both economies have seen inflation rise in recent months. Real policy rates are below long-run average levels, eroding the return buffers,” the rating agency said. “Capital may be quicker to leave and the central banks may have to raise policy rates. One mitigating factor for both countries is that current accounts are stronger relative to normal levels,” S&P noted. While the stock markets were on a bullish phase after the unlock began last year and roll out of the Covid-19 vaccine, it has faced obstacles in recent times like rising US bond yields which has led to apprehensions that FPIs could take money out of riskier assets in emerging economies like India. In today’s trade, investors awaited outcome of the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) meeting. The focus remains on whether the Fed will indicate any unwinding of its low-interest rate policy. "Caution descended on markets on Wednesday with world stocks holding below recent record highs as investors waited to see whether the U.S. Federal Reserve tonight would signal a faster path toward policy normalisation than previously expected’’, Deepak Jasani, Head of Retail Research, HDFC Securities said. The 30-share Sensex displayed volatility as it opened higher at 50,436.02 and hit a day’s low of 49718.65. it thereafter tanked 562.34 points or 1.12 per cent to close at 49,801.62. ONGC was the top loser in the Sensex pack, declining around 5 per cent, followed by NTPC, Sun Pharma, SBI, IndusInd Bank, Bajaj Auto, PowerGrid and Reliance Industries. On the other hand, ITC, Infosys, TCS and HDFC were among the gainers. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Tokyo and Seoul ended on a negative note.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-107
18-03-2021||Business||Centre set to continue with current inflation target of 4 per cent||The Centre is reportedly set to continue with the current inflation target of 4 per cent with a band of plus and minus 2 per cent — in what should come as a respite to the Reserve Bank of India which has been vehemently arguing for a status quo on the target. Speculation is rife about the Centre raising the threshold to 5 per cent with the review of the flexible inflation target (FIT) framework which was adopted for five years in 2016 and a new mechanism due from April. As part of the framework, the government had fixed the 4 per cent target inflation band with the upper tolerance limit of 6 per cent and the lower tolerance limit of 2 per cent. A higher band of 5 per cent would have given the central bank more room to cut interest rates, thereby supporting the economy. However, the central bank led by governor Shaktikanta Das on various occasions called for retaining the current target. The RBI had held price stability was a necessary pre-condition to sustainable growth. A Bloomberg report on Wednesday quoted government sources and said the Centre was likely to leave the target band unchanged so that the monetary policy committee (MPC) retained its primary objective to maintain price stability while keeping in mind the objective of growth. The report added that the Centre was mulling a few other changes which include a relaxation on the definition of “failure” of the role of MPC if inflation was beyond the targetted levels. The inflation targeting framework has come under stress as retail inflation is inching up because of higher food prices. Retail inflation rose to 5.03 per cent in February, while core inflation — a price index stripped off the food and fuel components — stood at 5.8 per cent. Liquidity in the system is also under strain because of the higher-than-expected amount of government borrowings announced for this fiscal and the next fiscal amid fears of the RBI tightening its monetary policy. Yields on government securities have risen to over 6.20 per cent. The benchmark 10 year G-sec settled at 6.18 per cent on Wednesday. The RBI in its report on the monetary policy framework released last month said during the period October 2016 to March 2020, headline CPI (consumer price index) inflation averaged 3.9 per cent with a decline in inflation volatility, which was within the targeted range and showed the success of the targeting framework  in terms of its primary mandate. Besides, the trend inflation, which is the path of actual inflation after a shock, provides an appropriate benchmark for targeting. Trend inflation has fallen from above 9 per cent before flexible inflation target to a range of 3.8–4.3 per cent, indicating 4 per cent is the appropriate level for the economy, the RBI said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-107
