19-03-2021||Business||Centre sells 10 per cent stake to exit Tata Communications||The government on Friday said it has exited Tata Communications after selling 10 per cent stake to Tata Sons' arm Panatone Finvest in an off-market trade. The Government of India held 26.12 per cent stake while Panatone Finvest had 34.80 per cent, Tata Sons 14.07 per cent and the remaining 25.01 per cent was with the public before the transaction. "We wish to inform you that we have 2,85,00,000 equity shares held by us in Tata Communications Limited representing 10 per cent of the total shareholding of the company, to the buyer on March 18, 2021 by way of an off-market trade," the Department of Telecom on behalf of the President of India said in a regulatory note. According to the regulatory filing, the government has sold 10 per cent stake to Panatone Finvest Limited. The government has already sold 16.12 per cent stake through an offer for sale to retail and non-retail investors at the floor price of Rs 1,161 per equity. The government has reserved a minimum of 25 per cent of the offer share for mutual funds and insurance companies subject to valid bids and 10 per cent for retail investors. The OFS was subscribed 1.33 times. Tata Communications was formed after Tata Group acquired stake in 2002 in erstwhile Videsh Sanchar Nigam Limited set up by the government in 1986. The stake is part of the government's disinvestment process. The government has set a target to realise Rs 32,000 crore in this fiscal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-105
19-03-2021||Business||Market stages sharp recovery, Sensex rebounds 642 points||Snapping its five-session losing streak, equity benchmark Sensex rebounded 642 points on Friday, led by gains in index majors RIL, HUL and ICICI Bank despite negative cues from global markets. After opening with significant losses, the 30-share BSE index made a U-turn to end 641.72 points or 1.30 per cent higher at 49,858.24. The broader NSE Nifty surged 186.15 points or 1.28 per cent to finish at 14,744.
NTPC was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rallying over 4 per cent, followed by HUL, PowerGrid, Reliance Industries, ITC, UltraTech Cement and Bajaj Finance.
On the other hand, L&T, Tech Mahindra, Bajaj Auto and Titan were among the laggards.
"Despite weak global cues, domestic equities recovered sharply today after five days of back-to-back fall," said Binod Modi, Head - Strategy at Reliance Securities.
Notably, a sharp recovery in FMCG, pharma, metals and Reliance Industries helped benchmark indices to recover from initial losses.
Moderate contraction in bond yields offered support to domestic equities despite prevailing concern of rise in daily COVID-19 cases, he said, adding that the recent spike in new infections is unlikely to dent the improved prospects of economic recovery meaningfully.
Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul ended on a negative note.
Stock exchanges in Europe were also trading with losses in mid-session deals.
Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 1.36 per cent higher at USD 64.14 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-105
19-03-2021||Business||India has till mid-April to appeal against Cairn award||India has time till mid-April to file an appeal against an international arbitration tribunal ordering it to repay UK's Cairn Energy Plc USD 1.2 billion-plus interest and cost, but the challenge can only be on limited grounds such as procedure not being followed. The award from a three-member tribunal at the Permanent Court of Arbitration at The Hague invalidating India's Rs 10,247 crore tax claim on Cairn Energy and ordering the government to return the value of shares it had sold, dividends seized and tax refunds withheld, was registered in the Netherlands on January 8, two people aware of the matter said. The registration of the arbitration award was acknowledged by New Delhi on January 19, they said adding an appeal against the award can be filed in 90-days of those two dates. Under Dutch law, the grounds for setting aside an arbitral award are extremely narrow, tax experts said. An arbitral award may only be set aside if the panel had not followed due process such as not giving enough opportunity to either side to present their case. In the Cairn arbitration case, the tribunal, which constituted of one neutral judge and the other two being named by Cairn and India, concluded formal hearings and submissions in 2018 and allowed parties to make written counter-arguments for more than a year thereafter and for months studied claims and counterclaims before delivering the judgment on December 21, 2020. They said the award, under Dutch law, can also be set aside on grounds of there being no valid arbitration agreement, rules for the composition to the tribunal not being observed, tribunal exceeding its mandate, the award not being signed or not reasoned, and the order or the manner in which it is arrived at is contrary to public policy or public morals. The Cairn award runs into 582 pages giving detailed reasons as to how the company wasn't in violation of any prevalent law when it 2006-07 it reorganised its India business prior to its listing, and how the government used a 2012 retrospective tax legislation to raise the tax demand. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman had earlier this month indicated of government's intent of appealing against the award on grounds of it questioning the sovereign powers of India to levy taxes. Her ministry feels taxation is not a subject of bilateral investment treaties, like the UK-India Bilateral Investment Treaty under which Cairn had sought rescinding of the tax demand raised, and so the award should be appealed. It is of the opinion that Cairn set up a tax abusive structure and did not pay taxes anywhere in the world on the gains that it made in India, they said adding India had made an unsuccessful case of tax not being part of the treaty before the arbitration panel as well. The arbitration award specifically made it clear the base of the judgment was not a challenge to the 2012 law or India's sovereign right to tax. "The issue at stake is thus not a matter of domestic tax law, it is rather whether the fiscal measures taken by the state, valid or not under its own tax laws, violate international law," the tribunal had said in a unanimous verdict. The Hague panel found that a 2012 law passed by the Indian Parliament was a new tax, not a clarification of prior law that could be applied to earlier years. Tax experts said the award may be revoked if after the award is made it is discovered that the order was based on fraud committed during the arbitral proceedings or was based on forged documents, or a party obtained documents that would have had an influence on the tribunal and which were withheld as a result of acts of the other party. Cairn has moved courts in nine countries to enforce the award against India. The award has already been recognised by courts in the US, the UK, Netherlands, Canada and France and the same is in the process in Singapore, Japan, the United Arab Emirates and the Cayman Islands. The registration of the award is the first step towards its enforcement in the event of the government not paying the firm. Once the court recognises an arbitration award, the company can then petition it for seizing any Indian government assets such as bank accounts, payments to state-owned entities, airplanes and ships in those jurisdictions, to recover the monies due to it, sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-105
19-03-2021||Business||Sensex tanks over 600 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex tanked over 600 points in early trade on Friday, tracking losses in HDFC Bank, L&T and Reliance Industries amid negative cues from global markets. The 30-share BSE index was trading 617.10 points or 1.25 per cent lower at 48,599.42, and the broader NSE Nifty fell 201.35 points or 1.38 per cent to 14,356.50.
ONGC was the top loser in the Sensex pack, slumping around 5 per cent, followed by L&T, Bajaj Finance, M&M, Maruti, SBI, Titan, HDFC twins and Reliance Industries.
On the other hand, Kotak Bank, Bharti Airtel and PowerGrid were the gainers.
In the previous session, Sensex ended 585.10 points or 1.17 per cent lower at 49,216.52, and Nifty slumped 163.45 points or 1.11 per cent to 14,557.85.
Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net buyers in the capital market on Thursday as they bought shares worth Rs 1,258.47 crore, as per exchange data.
Domestic equities do not look inspiring for the day. Intensifying concerns pertaining to the recent surge in coronavirus cases in various parts of the country have clearly dented investors' sentiments in domestic markets, said Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities.
Further, a sharp spike in USA treasury yields and inflationary concerns also weighed on sentiments, he noted.
"US equities finished sharply lower yesterday as investors dealt with twin threats of rising bond yields and sliding oil prices. 10-Year US Treasury yield surged 9 bps on Thursday to 14-month high to 1.73 per cent despite Federal Reserve maintaining its dovish stance on interest rates," Modi added.
Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul were trading on a negative note in mid-session deals.
Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.16 per cent higher at USD 63.38 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-105
19-03-2021||Business||Edelweiss shares tank after MCA orders inspection of its books||Shares of Edelweiss Financial Services (Edelweiss) were locked in at the lower circuit on Thursday on reports that the ministry of corporate affairs (MCA) has ordered an inspection of the books of Edelweiss Asset Reconstruction Company (EARC) after a whistleblower wrote to the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) and the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) alleging fraud at the firm However, in a clarification to the stock exchanges, Edelweiss said EARC has not received any intimation of any inspection being conducted by the MCA. “We deny each and every allegation, contention, statement and/or assertion against us, as contained in the article. EARC is in full compliance with the applicable laws, and has been conducting its business and operations in a fair and transparent manner. We have always acted responsibly and discharged our fiduciary responsibilities, and these allegations seem to be motivated,” it said. “EARC is an RBI regulated entity and hence the activities carried out are under regulatory purview. The equity investments made in EARC are specifically approved by the RBI. EARC’s dealings are completely above board and compliant with applicable law,’’ it added. However, the stock remained in the lower circuit and ended 5 per cent lower at Rs 80.20. The Moneycontrol report said the whistleblower — Paras Kuhad, a former additional solicitor general of India, alleged that Edelweiss Group, the controlling shareholder of the asset reconstruction company along with its partner Canadian pension fund Caisse de dépôt et placement du Québec (CDPQ), diverted at least Rs 1,800 crore from EARC. Kuhad and his family own about 14 per cent in EARC, which manages Rs 45,000 crore in assets. The report added that the MCA has asked its Mumbai branch to inspect the books of the ARC. According to the report, Kuhad alleged that Edelweiss Group allotted 20 per cent equity in EARC to CDPQ for less than the fair value. This was done by allowing CDPQ to convert its compulsorily convertible preference shares (CCPS) to equity at no additional cost apart from the Rs 500 crore which was paid by CDPQ at the time of allotment. Kuhad reportedly wrote that the fair value of EARC’s 20 per cent equity is at least Rs 800 crore even as also alleged that a registered valuer has not determined the price for the CCPS conversion as required by law. However, Edelweiss added in the clarification that CDPQ continues to hold the CCPS and it pointed out that “wild, grossly inaccurate, unsubstantiated, fabricated and clearly motivated allegations have been selectively published’’.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-105
19-03-2021||Business||Lenders likely to face challenges in their incremental bond issuances||Lenders are likely to face challenges in their incremental bond issuances, following the Securities and Exchange Board of India’s (Sebi) revised norms on investment by mutual funds in Basel-III debt instruments issued by banks, says a report. In the last week’s revised norms, the capital market regulator said mutual funds across all the schemes would not own more than 10 per cent of the Basel-III instruments issued by any bank. The norms also mention that no more than 10 per cent of the net asset value (NAV) of the debt component of the scheme shall be issued in Basel-III instruments and no more than 5 per cent of the NAV of the debt component of the scheme shall be issued in Basel-III instruments of a single issuer. Also, the valuation of perpetual debt instruments, henceforth, shall be based on a maturity of 100 years from the date of issuance instead of the current practice of valuing them on the time left for the next call-option date. Icra Ratings group head (financial sector ratings) Karthik Srinivasan said the proposals to limit the composition of the Basel-III bonds in overall asset under management (AUMs) could affect the incremental investment appetite of AMCs which are closer to 10 per cent of the NAV threshold limit for investments in these bonds. “As mutual funds are large investors in additional tier-I (AT-I) and tier-II bonds issued by banks, it could possibly make it challenging for the banks to raise their desired quantum of debt capital,” Srinivasan said in the report. According to the rating agency, mutual funds hold 30 per cent of the outstanding tier-I bonds and 14 per cent of the outstanding tier-II bonds as of February 2021.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-105
19-03-2021||Business||Rising US rates, fresh Covid wave hit stocks||A rise in US bond yields and the increasing number of Covid-19 cases in the country on Thursday caused the benchmark indices to slip for the fifth consecutive session. The 30-share Sensex tumbled 585 points taking its cumulative loss to around 2063 points during this period. The lower close came despite dovish comments from Federal Reserve chairman Jerome Powell indicating that it would continue with its current regime of near-zero interest rates at least till 2023 amid apprehensions that it could start unwinding its accommodative policies. However, rising US bond yields played spoilsport, leading to fears that this could see outflows from emerging markets such as India. On Thursday, the 10-year US treasury yield touched almost 1.75 per cent — a 14 month high. There were other reasons as well. The rising number of coronavirus cases in the country and apprehensions that some regions may be facing the risk of a second wave has re-ignited concerns about the resulting partial lockdowns, its adverse impact on economic activity and consequently on India’s economic growth. In a report on Wednesday, Nomura said that the rising number of cases could lead to near-term growth concerns, though its impact would be limited over the medium term as vaccination gathers pace.
Further, with various IPOs vying for investor attention this week, this has affected inflows into the secondary markets. “The Indian equity markets continued to grind down despite opening in the green on the back of positive global cues at the beginning of the session. The sentiments were affected by the sudden firming up of the bond yields in US along with another day of surge in new Covid cases to 38,500 — the highest in past four months in India. The clubbing of IPOs in the already tight advance tax payment season also seem to have added the underperformance by Indian markets compared with its Asian peers and European markets,’’ said Gaurav Dua, SVP, head of capital market strategy, Sharekhan by BNP Paribas. Meanwhile, the RBI has announced a special open market operations which involved the simultaneous purchase and sale of government securities for an aggregate amount of Rs 10,000 crore on March 25. The central bank has been trying to cool down long-term yields, which have defiantly stayed around 6.20 per cent recently.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-105
19-03-2021||Business||TPG’s Rise Fund to invest $200 million in Airtel Africa’s mobile money business||Investment firm TPG’s Rise Fund will invest $200 million (around Rs 1,450 crore) in Airtel Africa’s mobile money business, Airtel Mobile Commerce BV, at a valuation of $2.65 billion, Airtel said on Thursday.
With this transaction, Rise Fund is estimated to get a 7.5 per cent stake in Airtel Mobile Commerce (AMC) BV which is currently the holding company for several of Airtel Africa’s mobile money operations. The transaction will close in two stages. An amount of $150 million will be invested at the first close, once the transfer of sufficient mobile money operations and contracts into AMC BV has been completed, with $50 million to be invested at the second close upon further transfers. Airtel Africa is also in discussions with other potential investors in relation to possible further minority investments into Airtel Money, up to a total of 25 per cent of the issued share capital of AMC BV, the statement said. Spectrum payment Operators Reliance Jio, Bharti Airtel and Vodafone Idea have made upfront payments to the telecom department for the spectrum they acquired in the recently-held auctions, industry sources said on Thursday. Sources said that Reliance Jio has made an upfront payment of about Rs 15,019 crore, while Bharti Airtel has paid around Rs 6,323 crore as the immediate upfront amount. Vodafone Idea has paid about Rs 574 crore, as stipulated, they said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-106
19-03-2021||Business||Govt announces scrappage scheme for vehicles older than 15 years||The scrappage scheme for vehicles older than 15 years with incentives was announced by the government on Thursday. The scheme is expected to boost the automobile industry and attract investments of Rs 10,000 crore and create 35,000 job opportunities, Union minister of road transport and highways Nitin Gadkari said on Thursday. While making a statement about the vehicle scrappage policy in the Lok Sabha, the minister termed it as a win-win situation and said, “The policy will help improve fuel efficiency and reduce pollution.” Gadkari has also requested finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman to consider a GST cut for such vehicles. The finance ministry has not responded to the request yet. “It will be an added incentive. The finance ministry is looking into this request but there is no decision yet… The GST income will also rise by Rs 30,000 crore–Rs 40,000 crore on account of higher vehicle sales.” “The headwinds for implementation would be in the form of having more infrastructure in place to build organised scrapping centres, which India does not possess,” Care Ratings said. V.R. Sharma, MD of JSPL, said: “The country should have a uniform power tariff for the vehicle scrappage to be cost effective and for such centres to come up across the country, otherwise vehicles would move to lower tariff states such as Odisha and Chhattisgarh, which would defeat the purpose.” “India has 51 lakh light motor vehicles which are older than 20 years, 34 lakh light motor vehicles which are older than 15 years, and 17 lakh medium and heavy commercial vehicles which are older than 15 years and without valid fitness certificates,” Gadkari said. FASTag Gadkari informed the Lok Sabha that the government is looking to do away with toll booths in the next year, which will be replaced with GPS imaging-based toll collection. FASTag has been made mandatory for all vehicles, and double toll is levied if a vehicle does not have FASTag. “I want to assure the House that within one year all physical toll booths in the country will be removed...The toll will be collected based on GPS imaging (on vehicles)," Gadkari said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-106
19-03-2021||Business||Delhi HC restrains Future Retail Ltd from striking Rs 24,713cr deal with Reliance Retail||The Delhi High Court on Thursday upheld an order by the emergency arbitrator (EA) of the Singapore International Arbitration Centre (SIAC) restraining Future Retail Ltd (FRL) from proceeding with its Rs 24,713cr deal with Reliance Retail. Justice J.R. Midha on Thursday held that the Future group wilfully violated the Singapore arbitrator’s order and directed FRL not to take further action on the deal. The court directed the Future group and its directors to deposit Rs 20 lakh  in Prime Minister's Relief Fund for providing Covid-19 vaccines to senior citizens in the BPL category. The court also directed the presence of Biyani and others before it on April 28 as also the attachment of their properties. A show cause notice was issued to Biyani and the others  as to why they will not be detained in civil prison for three month for violating the emergency arbitrator's order. Officials from the Future group did not offer an immediate reaction to the development, saying they will only be able to comment after receiving a copy of the order. US retail giant Amazon which has been objecting to the deal between the Future group and Reliance had approached the high court seeking direction to order the enforcement of the award of the Singapore arbitrator. Amazon had also sought to restrain the Future group from taking any steps to complete the transaction with entities that are part of the Mukesh Dhirubhai Ambani (MDA) Group. In February, the high court had reserved its order on the main petition and directed all other concerned authorities to maintain status quo in relation to the matter which are in violation of the emergency award and to file a report with regard to the present status within 10 days. While pronouncing the interim order, Justice Midha had upheld the role of the Singapore arbitrator. The arbitrator was right in proceeding against Future Retail and its order was not in nullity. Justice Midha said it was clear the October 25, 2020 order of the Singapore  arbitrator  was enforceable and appealable under the relevant provisions of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act. This interim order was appealed by the Future group and subsequently, a division bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh had stayed the direction to FRL and various statutory authorities to maintain status quo on the deal. Following this, Amazon had moved the Supreme Court against the Delhi High Court. Lawyers said the interim direction of the single judge is a binding order. The order likely to be challenged immediately for a  stay.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-106
