20-03-2021||Business||Options narrow down on Cairn||India has time till mid-April to file an appeal against an international arbitration tribunal ordering it to repay the UK’s Cairn Energy Plc $1.2 billion-plus interest and cost, but the challenge can only be on limited grounds such as procedure not being followed. The award from a three-member tribunal at the Permanent Court of Arbitration at The Hague invalidating India’s Rs 10,247-crore tax claim on Cairn Energy and ordering the government to return the value of shares it had sold, dividends seized and tax refunds withheld, was registered in the Netherlands on January 8, two people aware of the matter said. The registration of the arbitration award was acknowledged by New Delhi on January 19, they said, adding an appeal against the award can be filed in 90-days of those two dates. Under Dutch law, the grounds for setting aside an arbitral award are extremely narrow, tax experts said. An arbitral award may only be set aside if the panel had not followed due process such as not giving enough opportunity to either side to present their case. In the Cairn arbitration case, the tribunal, which constituted of one neutral judge and the other two being named by Cairn and India, concluded formal hearings and submissions in 2018 and allowed parties to make written counter-arguments for more than a year thereafter and for months studied claims and counterclaims before delivering the judgment on December 21, 2020. They said the award, under Dutch law, can also be set aside on grounds of there being no valid arbitration agreement, rules for the composition to the tribunal not being observed, tribunal exceeding its mandate among others.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-104
20-03-2021||Business||Car makers and govt hold contrasting views on scrappage policy||Road transport and highways secretary Giridhar Aramane told a television channel that the government expects car makers to offer at least 2-3 per cent discount initially and as the scrappage policy gains momentum, the discount is likely to be higher. “They (auto makers) have agreed to give some incentives but the quantum, they have to decide,” Aramane said. However, Maruti Suzuki chairman R.C. Bhargava told a channel that “if a vehicle is unfit and it has to be scrapped where is the need for giving the person any incentives to buy a new vehicle? He has an unfit vehicle which should not be allowed to be used because it is a hazard for everybody”. “Setting up of necessary infrastructure for scrapping and further clarity on the scrap value of vehicles and tradeability of scrapping certificate remain key for successful implementation and realising the true potential of the policy,” Shamsher Dewan, vice-president & group head – corporate sector ratings of ICRA, said. ICRA estimated that the population of M&HCVs older than 15 years would be 1.1 million units by FY2024, offering a significant potential for scrappage. However, given the nature of usage of such vehicles, the actual scrappage potential could possibly be lower. Nevertheless, even if a proportion of these vehicles get scrapped, it can offer a fillip to volumes by spurring replacement demand, and support the industry out of its trough. ICRA estimates that even with 15-20 per cent conversion, it can provide a 20-25 per cent upside to industry volumes in FY2024. It has estimated that the total PV population of 40.8 million, out of which about 3 per cent i.e. 1 million are over 20 years old. Once implemented, the policy could result in about 10 per cent-12 per cent cost benefit for new car buyers with a potential to add 300,000 units (or 7-9 per cent upside) to industry volume even with 30 per cent conversion in 2024. “The headwinds for implementation would be in the form of having more infrastructure in place to build organised scrapping centres, which currently India does not possess. To further incentivise the consumer, there should be GST concessions on purchase of new vehicles, as tax rates in India on new automobiles are exorbitant,” Care Ratings said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-104
20-03-2021||Business||Two city petrol pumps to sell CNG||The car owners in Calcutta will have the option to switch to the cost competitive and greener source of fuel from next week as two petrol pumps of the city plan to start dispensing compressed natural gas (CNG) from their outlets. A conventional retail outlet of Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd (BPCL) at Garia and another of Indian Oil Corporation at Rajarhat have been primed for the task, while plans are underway to add a few more in and around the city and important towns of South Bengal. Separate areas have been earmarked within the two outlets to put up a dispenser and storage tank of CNG. The employees of the pumps have been especially trained to handle the new fuel. “I am maintaining a stock of 8,000 kg in my storage tank at the outlet. Moreover, a vehicle carrying equal volume of gas on a casket is on stand-by to ensure there is continuity of supply,” Suresh Bajla, owner of Greenland petrol pump of BPCL at Garia, said. There is unlikely to be an immediate surge in demand as vehicle owners are unaware of CNG being available in the market. Bajla said some of the consumers have retrofitted CNG kit to their vehicles and at least one person has bought a new car with dual feed (CNG/petrol). Rajiv Chanda, owner of IOC pump Champion adjacent to Axis Mall in Rajarhat, said representatives from two auto makers have visited his outlet and have promised to help customers willing to install a CNG kit in their existing cars. The retail selling price of the gas is likely to be Rs 67.6 a kilogram, which could translate to about 45-50 per cent lower operating costs for individual petrol car owners. The price of petrol on Friday in Calcutta was Rs 91.35 a litre. Users would also gain in mileage which is said to be higher when run on CNG. Maruti and Hyundai are planning to bring their dual feed models to the city . Moreover, existing cars have the option to add CNG kit at a cost of around Rs 42,000. The CNG is being sourced by Bengal Gas Company Ltd (BGCL), a joint venture between GAIL and Greater Calcutta Gas Supply Corp, from the coal bed methane field operated by Essar in Ranigunj. Since BGCL does not have a retail outlet in the city, it would piggyback on the existing oil marketing companies to penetrate the market. “This is what has happened in cities such as Mumbai and Delhi where there is a strong CNG network. Unless the existing fuel outlets are used, customers will not get access to it at their convenience,” an oil industry veteran noted. GAIL is building a pipeline connecting Panagarh to Calcutta and Haldia to provide uninterrupted supply of natural gas in a cost effective manner. While the infrastructure is in the making, CNG is being brought by casket mounted on trucks. This arrangement would hold good till demand picks up, which will happen when consumers feel confident of the availability at their convenience. However, the real change in terms of air quality would be felt when public transport switches from diesel to gas. Even though natural gas is also a fossil fuel, emission of nitrogen oxides and soot are much less from burning of gas. Incidentally, a part of Calcutta’s transport is already using some form of gas as some auto rickshaws are using LPG.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-104
20-03-2021||Business||Future Group looks to fight Delhi High Court injunction||Future Retail Ltd (FRL) on Friday said the order passed by a single-judge bench of the Delhi high court would have no impact on the proceedings at the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) with regard to the proposed Rs 24,713-crore deal with Reliance Industries and that its promoters are considering “appropriate remedies” against some of the other directions passed by the bench. On Thursday, the Delhi high court had upheld an order by the Emergency Arbitrator (EA) of the Singapore International Arbitration Centre (SIAC) restraining FRL from proceeding with the transaction. The development led to Future group stocks crashing around 10 per cent. While Future Enterprises settled 9.21 per cent lower at Rs 8.67, Future Consumer fell 9.96 per cent to Rs 6.42. The share price of Future Retail slid 9.99 per cent to Rs 55.85 and Future Lifestyle Fashions also fell by 9.9 per cent to Rs 64.85 on the BSE. “We are advised that this order does not come in the way of the continuance of the ongoing NCLT proceedings, being inconsistent with the order dated February 22, 2021, of the Supreme Court,” Future Retail said in a regulatory filing to the stock exchanges on Friday. “Amazon has filed an appeal in the Supreme Court against the order passed by the division bench. The Supreme Court, in its order on  Amazon’s appeal, has not vacated the stay granted by the division bench (which stay is still in operation). The Supreme Court has directed that, in the meantime, the NCLT proceedings will be allowed to go on but will not culminate in any final order of sanction of scheme,” Future Retail added. In its order, Justice J R Midha directed FRL not to take further action on the deal with Reliance and held that the group wilfully violated the EA's order. The high court rejected all the objections raised by Future Group and imposed a cost of Rs 20 lakh on it as well as its directors. It directed them to deposit the amount in Prime Minister's Relief Fund within two weeks for being used for providing COVID-19 vaccination to senior citizens of Below Poverty Line (BPL) category of Delhi. Future group founder Kishore Biyani and directors were also ordered to be present before the Delhi High Court at the next hearing even as the High Court asked them to show cause as to why they should not be detained for three months in a civil prison for violating the emergency arbitrator's order. Here, FRL said that with respect to other directions passed by the single judge, the promoters will take appropriate remedies as advised. It may be recalled that Amazon had filed a plea seeking direction to order enforcement of the award by Singapore's EA on October 25, 2020 which restrained FRL from proceeding with the deal with Reliance Retail.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-104
20-03-2021||Business||Centre fully exits Tata Communications||The government on Friday said it has exited Tata Communications after selling a 10 per cent stake to Tata Sons’ arm Panatone Finvest in an off-market trade. The Government of India held a 26.12 per cent stake while Panatone Finvest had 34.80 per cent, Tata Sons 14.07 per cent and the remaining 25.01 per cent was with the public before the transaction. “We wish to inform you that we have 2,85,00,000 equity shares held by us in Tata Communications Limited representing 10 per cent of the total shareholding of the company, to the buyer on March 18, 2021 by way of an off-market trade,” the department of telecom on behalf of the President of India said in a regulatory note. According to the regulatory filing, the government has sold a 10 per cent stake to Panatone Finvest Limited. The government has already sold a 16.12 per cent stake through an offer for sale to retail and non-retail investors at the floor price of Rs 1,161 per equity. The government has reserved a minimum of 25 per cent of the offer share for mutual funds and insurance companies subject to valid bids and 10 per cent for retail investors. The OFS was subscribed 1.33 times. Tata Communications was formed after Tata Group acquired stake in 2002 in erstwhile Videsh Sanchar Nigam Limited set up by the government in 1986. The stake is part of the government’s disinvestment process. The government has set a target to realise Rs 32,000 crore in this fiscal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-104
20-03-2021||Business||TCS salary increments for 2021-22||Tata Consultancy Services (TCS) is set to give across-the-board salary increments for 2021-22, thus becoming the first IT services company to do so. The salary hike is an indication of the robust growth witnessed by the country’s largest IT services firm and its optimism that the good times will continue into the next fiscal year as enterprises adopt technology in a Covid-19 struck world. It also marks a return to the normal increment cycle. After TCS declared results for the third quarter ended December 31, 2020, Rajesh Gopinathan, chief executive officer and managing director, had said that the company is confident about achieving a double digit revenue growth for the next fiscal. The salary hike roll-out will benefit close to 4.7 lakh employees of the company. Incidentally, this would be the second salary hike within six months by TCS. Back in October 2020, the firm had hiked salaries by 6-7 per cent and in April, the average increment band is likely to be the same, thus taking the total increment to 12-14 per cent in six months. Despite the salary hike in October, operating margins of TCS had expanded by 40 basis points, to 26.6 per cent — the highest in the last five years. Because of the increment, its operating margins were affected by 160 basis points. However, a robust growth across geographies and verticals made up for the increase. A TCS spokesperson confirmed that the company is on track to give increments to all associates across geographies effective April 2021 in line with its benchmarks. “We are thankful to all our associates for demonstrating resilience, adaptability, and an innovative mindset to steer the company in these trying times. This step is a reflection of our steadfast commitment to our associates,” the spokesperson said. After the pandemic struck in March last year, several companies were forced to reduce employee salaries and freeze fresh recruitment. However, with the domestic economy recovering from the recession, it is expected that companies in other businesses would also start giving increments to their employees. During the third quarter, TCS’s revenues grew 4.1 per cent in constant currency, 5.1 per cent in dollar terms and 4.7 per cent in rupee terms on a sequential basis. Shares of TCS closed higher at Rs 3,063.25 on Friday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-105
20-03-2021||Business||Change in Indian companies owned & controlled by NRIs||Investment by non-resident Indians (NRIs) on a non-repatriation basis in an Indian company will be treated as domestic investment in the calculation of indirect overseas inflows, according to a DPIIT press note. The Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT) said the government has reviewed the FDI policy in relation to investments made by an Indian company owned and controlled by non-resident Indians (NRIs) on a non-repatriation basis. “Post introduction of this clarification and upon making corresponding changes in FDI rules, even the companies that are incorporated in India and are owned and controlled by NRIs on non-repatriation basis should be able to make downstream investment without it being treated as indirect foreign investment,” Prashant Prakhar, leader, regulatory practice at Nishith Desai Associates said. Apurva Jayant, partner, J Sagar Associates said “the change introduced is logical and clarificatory. Pending this clarification, there was an absurd position where NRI holding directly on non-repatriation basis was considered domestic, but investment through a company was not”. The press note said  to provide clarity on downstream investments made by NRIs, a clause has been added in the FDI policy. The clause was added in the guidelines for calculation of direct and indirect foreign investments. It said that “investments by non-resident Indians (NRIs) on a non-repatriation basis” as stipulated under a schedule of Foreign Exchange Management (non-debt instruments) Rules 2019 “are deemed to be domestic investments at par with the investments made by residents”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-105
20-03-2021||Business||RBI warns bond rogues against undermining global recovery||A piqued Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Friday railed against “bond vigilantes” saying they could undermine the global recovery, unsettle financial markets and trigger capital outflows from emerging markets as it sought co-operation from the domestic bond markets to bring about an orderly evolution of the yield curve. Bond vigilantes refers to investors who aggressively sell government bonds as a protest against monetary policies, thereby driving up the yields. The RBI has been frustrated in its efforts to cool down yields in recent weeks. The yield on the 10-year benchmark government security has remained at around 6.20 per cent against attempts to keep it below 6 per cent. The bond markets have been seeking higher yields because of inflationary fears amid rising oil prices and a greater than expected government borrowing. Grappling with rising yields in the US have become another challenge as it could lead to FPI outflows from the country. “Bond vigilantes are riding again, ostensibly trying to enforce law and order on lawless governments and central banks but this time around, they could undermine the economic recovery and unsettle buoyant financial markets,” the article in the RBI monthly bulletin said. “Fears over US interest rates have already started spilling over on to emerging market economies (EMEs). Investors have started pulling out money from EME stocks and bonds in an abrupt ending of a streak of inflows that had remained uninterrupted since October 2020,’’ the article said. It pointed out if bond yields rise too high, central banks have the option of purchasing them to cool yields and stabilise the market, but this will come at the cost of market activity. This is not the first time the RBI is seeking co-operation from the bond markets. Back in December and in October, RBI governor Shaktikanta Das had said market participants should take a broader time perspective and display bidding behaviour that reflects a sensitivity to the signals from the RBI in the conduct of monetary policy and debt management. ``We need to be competitive and not combative’’, he said later that year. The article said the economy cannot withstand higher interest rates in its current state. “It is recovering but certainly not out of the woods yet. There is much sense in what the RBI is doing in striving to ensure an orderly evolution of the yield curve’’, the article said. The report said the lingering effects of the slowdown in global economic activity in the fourth quarter of 2020 are beginning to fade in the first quarter of this calendar year amid a rush to vaccinate against Covid-19 even as the mutant strains of the virus incite fresh action on the part of governments.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-105
