21-03-2021||Business||Future Group challenges Delhi High Court order||Future Group on Saturday approached the Delhi high court challenging a single judge’s order upholding the Singapore’s Emergency Arbitrator’s (EA) judgment restraining Future Retail Ltd (FRL) from going ahead with its Rs 24,713-crore deal with Reliance Retail to sell its business. The US-based e-commerce giant Amazon had challenged the deal in the international court. The appeal will be heard on March 22 by a bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Jasmeet Singh. The appeal, filed through advocate Harshvardhan Jha, has challenged the single judge’s March 18 judgment directing Kishore Biyani-led FRL not to take further action in relation to the deal with Reliance and holding that the group willfully violated the Singapore Arbitrator’s order. Justice J.R. Midha had rejected all the objections raised by Future Group and imposed a cost of Rs 20 lakh on the Future Group and its directors and directed them to deposit the amount in the Prime Minister’s Relief Fund within two weeks for being used for providing Covid-19 vaccination to senior citizens of Below Poverty Line (BPL) category of Delhi. The March 18 verdict had come on Amazon’s plea seeking direction to order enforcement of the award by Singapore’s EA on October 25, 2020, restraining FRL from going ahead with its Rs 24,713-crore deal with Reliance Retail. The high court, which directed the presence of Biyani and others before it on April 28, had also ordered attachment of their properties and asked them to file an affidavit detailing their assets within one month. It had also asked them to show cause as to why they be not detained under civil prison for a term not exceeding three months for violating the emergency arbitrator’s order and file reply within two weeks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-104
21-03-2021||Business||Government to boost high-technology manufacturing||In a move to boost high-technology manufacturing, including semiconductors in the country, the government has decided to set up a committee to facilitate investments. The committee will consider investment and project proposals in high-technology areas, take action to facilitate investments and production and make recommendations to seek approvals of the competent authority, an official statement said. “In order to facilitate investments and promote manufacturing in technology-intensive sectors, including semiconductors, the government of India has decided to constitute an empowered committee for manufacturing in high-technology areas,” it said. The minister of commerce and industry will be the chairperson of the 10-member committee. The panel will include Tata Sons chairman N. Chandrasekaran; Bharat Forge chairman Baba Kalyani; Mahindra Group managing director and CEO Pawan Goenka; Zoho Corporation CEO Sridhar Vembu; and Anshuman Tripathi, a semiconductor domain expert. The detailed terms of reference of the committee will be notified in due course, it said. The largest producers of semiconductors are the United States, South Korea and Japan and is estimated to be a trillion-dollar electronics industry globally and expanding further with increasing penetration of robotics, AI and IoT. “The secretaries in the department of economic affairs, department of revenue, department of expenditure and sponsoring ministry/department may be invited to participate in the meetings of the empowered committee, as required,” the release said, adding that the committee will be serviced by the department for promotion of industry and internal trade.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-104
21-03-2021||Business||20 states gets additional borrowing permission of Rs 39,521 crore||Twenty states have completed the “ease of doing business” reforms stipulated by the department of expenditure, which would enable them to get an additional borrowing permission of Rs 39,521 crore through open market borrowings, the finance ministry said on Saturday. “States completing ease of doing business reforms are eligible for additional borrowing of 0.25 per cent of the gross state domestic product (GSDP),” the ministry said. “Accordingly, on receipt of recommendations from the department for promotion of industry and internal trade (DPIIT), the department of expenditure has granted permission to these 20 states to raise additional financial resources of Rs 39,521 crore through open market borrowings. State-wise amount of the additional borrowing permitted to these 20 states is annexed,” it said. Five more states — Arunachal Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Goa, Meghalaya and Tripura — have completed the “ease of doing business” reforms stipulated by the department of expenditure, it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-104
21-03-2021||Business||Srei Infrastructure Finance company secretary resigns||Equipment finance NBFC Srei Infrastructure Finance Ltd on Saturday said its company secretary Sandeep Kumar Lakhotia has resigned. The move comes following the salary cap imposed on the company by its lenders amidst the pandemic-induced stress on its business. The company, when contacted, said around 180 employees have exited since December last year. “We wish to inform you that Sandeep Kumar Lakhotia has resigned from the position of company secretary & compliance officer of the company,” Srei Infrastructure Finance Ltd said in a regulatory filing. Lakhotia will be relieved with effect from the close of working hours of March 20, 2021, Srei said. “The company shall be shortly appointing a new company secretary and compliance officer and the same shall be intimated to the stock exchanges in due course,” it said. In the interim, Ekta Agarwal, deputy company secretary of the company, shall be in charge of the compliance function, it added. The company is battling asset-liability mismatch in the aftermath of the pandemic-driven stress in the economy as it mainly caters to equipment financing and most of the economic activities came to a grinding halt due to the lockdown, only limping back gradually now.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-104
21-03-2021||Business||WhatsApp hires top Amazon executive to head its payments business in India||WhatsApp has hired a top Amazon executive to head its payments business in India, two sources told Reuters, as the messenger service gears up to expand in the booming sector. Manesh Mahatme, who has worked at Amazon Pay for nearly seven years, is due to join WhatsApp’s payment service soon, one of the sources said on Friday. WhatsApp and Amazon Pay were not immediately available for comment. Mahatme declined to comment. With more than 500 million users, WhatsApp counts India as its biggest market, where it is the newest entrant in India’s digital payments sector, which PwC and Indian industry body Assocham say is set to be worth $135 billion by 2023. WhatsApp last year received a much-delayed approval for the launch of its payments system in India, but so far its rollout has been capped by regulators at 20 million users. But it has big ambitions and a deal by Facebook last year to invest $5.7 billion in Jio Platforms digital unit, will allow WhatsApp to offer payments services to millions of mom-and-pop stores. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-104
