22-03-2021||Business||Lok Sabha passes Insurance Amendment Bill, FDI raised to 74 per cent||A bill to increase foreign direct investment (FDI) in the insurance sector from 49 per cent to 74 per cent was approved by Parliament with the Lok Sabha giving green signal to the legislation by a voice vote on Monday.  Piloting the Bill, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said that hiking the FDI limit in the insurance sector will help insurers to raise additional funds and tide over financial problems.  The Insurance (Amendment) Bill, 2021 was earlier passed by the Rajya Sabha last week.  The minister said that the government will provide funds to the public sector insurance companies but the private players will have to raise capital on their own.  Observing that insurance companies are facing solvency related issues, she said, "if growth capital is hard to come by, there will be a stress situation. In order that the stress situation is not left unattended, we need to raise the FDI limit."  The COVID-19 pandemic, Sitharaman said, has further added to the woes of the insurance companies.  The minister further said that the FDI limit was being raised on the recommendations of the regulator IRDAI which had extensive consultations with stakeholders.  The FDI inflow in the insurance sector, the minister said, had increased significantly after the government decided to raise the cap from 26 per cent to 49 per cent in 2015.  As much as Rs 26,000 crore has come as FDI in the insurance sector since 2015, she said, adding the asset under management (AUM) in this sector has grown by 76 per cent during the last five years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-102
22-03-2021||Business||Sensex ends 87 points lower to finish at 49,771||Equity benchmark Sensex declined 87 points on Monday, tracking losses in index majors HDFC Bank, ICICI Bank and Reliance Industries amid a weak trend in global markets. The 30-share BSE index ended 86.95 points or 0.17 per cent lower at 49,771.29. The broader NSE Nifty dipped 7.60 points or 0.05 per cent to 14,736.40. IndusInd Bank was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding around 4 per cent, followed by PowerGrid, ICICI Bank, HDFC Bank, Axis Bank and Bajaj Finance. On the other hand, Tech Mahindra, TCS, Sun Pharma, Infosys and HCL Tech were among the gainers. "Domestic equities traded lower as mounting concerns pertaining to rise in COVID-19 cases in various parts of the country and resultant restrictions continued to weigh on investors sentiments," said Binod Modi, Head - Strategy at Reliance Securities. Further, weak global cues and higher US bond yields kept markets nervous. However, strong buying was seen in IT, FMCG and pharma space, while financials and automobiles witnessed selling pressure. "Notably, investors lapped-up quality midcap and small cap stocks after recent corrections in these spaces," he added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo were in the red, while Shanghai ended on a positive note. Stock exchanges in Europe were also trading on a weak note in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.20 per cent lower at USD 64.40 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-102
22-03-2021||Business||HC stays order restraining Future Retail to go ahead with Reliance deal||The Delhi High Court on Monday stayed a single judge's order restraining Future Retail Ltd from going ahead with its Rs 24,713 crore deal with Reliance Retail to sell its business, which was objected to by US-based e-commerce giant Amazon. A division bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Jasmeet Singh also issued notice to Amazon on Future Group's appeal challenging the single judge's March 18 judgment on the deal. The bench listed the matter for further hearing on April 30. It also stayed the single judge order asking for attachment of assets of Future Group's Kishore Biyani and others and directing them to appear in the court on April 28. The single judge's order had come on Amazon's plea seeking direction to order enforcement of the award by Singapore's Emergency Arbitrator's on October 25, 2020, restraining Future Retail from going ahead with its Rs 24,713 crore deal with Reliance Retail.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-103
22-03-2021||Business||Sensex drops over 300 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex tumbled over 300 points in early trade on Monday, tracking losses in index majors Reliance Industries, HDFC Bank and ICICI Bank amid a weak trend in global markets. The 30-share BSE index was trading 305.33 points or 0.61 per cent lower at 49,552.91, and the broader NSE Nifty fell 76 points or 0.52 per cent to 14,668. PowerGrid was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding around 2 per cent, followed by Reliance Industries, ICICI Bank, HDFC Bank and IndusInd Bank. On the other hand, Sun Pharma, Dr Reddy's, Asian Paints and Infosys were among the gainers. In the previous session, Sensex ended 641.72 points or 1.30 per cent higher at 49,858.24, and Nifty surged 186.15 points or 1.28 per cent to finish at 14,744. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net buyers in the capital market on Friday as they bought shares worth Rs 1,418.43 crore, as per exchange data. V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services, said the market is in an excessively volatile zone. Support comes from sustained FII buying which has crossed Rs 7,000 crore during the last four trading days. "But, there is a major dampener in the form of fast-rising COVID-19 cases, especially in some economically significant cities. Restricted economic activity in these regions might impact the optimistic growth projections for FY 22," he added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai and Seoul were trading on a positive note in mid-session deals, while Hong Kong and Tokyo were in the red. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.50 per cent lower at USD 64.21 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-103
22-03-2021||Business||Cover course||The financial year-end sees an uptick in life insurance purchases. Apart from coverage and investment benefits, life insurance policies also provide tax deductions under Section 80C of the Income Tax Act. Owning a life coverage is critical for persons with dependent family members. An insurance coverage replaces the income of the deceased, thus helping dependants avoid financial strain and remain on track to achieve life goals such as paying off a home loan or educating a child. Therefore, the coverage size needs to be at the heart of an insurance purchase decision. This is not often the case. For many, the need to save taxes, along with the tendency to combine insurance needs with investment needs, take precedence. Not prioritising the sum assured could have disastrous consequences for their families. The preferred approach Many prefer having streamlined solutions to tax-saving, investment and insurance. This leads them to investment-linked insurance plans that can achieve all the three goals. The policies do a good job of taking care of the tax-saving needs. However, they may also contain the trio of inadequate coverage, limited liquidity and low annualised returns. Therefore, if you are in the market for your first life insurance policy, buy a term insurance plan. It’s a pure insurance plan with no investment or maturity benefit. Because of the low premium costs, this is the only option that takes care of your coverage needs without pinching your wallet. For example, a 30-year-old can buy a basic term cover of Rs 1 crore for 30 years for an annual premium of around Rs 11,000. At that price, it wouldn’t be possible to buy a similar coverage through investment-linked policies. A term plan would also free up your savings that you can now use for wealth creation. How much coverage? There are many ways of determining the ideal level of coverage. Some suggest a simple rule of thumb: coverage of 10 to 20 times your current annual income should cover your family for the long-term. However, it’s better to calculate your requirement keeping in mind your financials, life goals and inflation. For example, your minimum coverage need would combine the following: your current annual expenses multiplied by the number of years left till retirement, the current value of life goals such as child’s education, loans and other liabilities, surviving spouse’s retirement needs, minus existing savings and investments. Bear in mind that your coverage will be commensurate to your documented income. For example, if your income is Rs 10 lakh, you can buy a Rs 1 crore cover, but you cannot buy a Rs  10-crore cover. You may be allowed to own up to 30 times your annual income as coverage in some cases. What about investments? Investment-linked insurance plans often have large premium. But a term plan is cheap; it will only provide moderate support in helping you achieve tax-saving goals. Therefore, you need to find options to cover the shortfall in tax savings.You have plenty. If you were interested in market-linked investments, you could invest in equity-linked savings schemes — tax-saving mutual funds that you can invest in with monthly SIPs, or one-time lump-sums. ELSS funds also have the lowest lock-ins of tax-saving investments — just three years. If you are risk-averse and prefer the rate of return to be clearly advertised, small saving schemes are your best option because they provide higher tax-free interest income than other debt investment options. Voluntary Provident Fund, Public Provident Fund and the five-year National Savings Certificate will do the trick for the general public. For families with female children, Sukanya Samriddhi is the go-to option. Investing through insurance When you buy any investment, you must understand what its annual rate of return would be. This is important in the short term but even more important when committing to a long-term investment plan such as a Ulip or an endowment plan. For example, your office PF provides tax-free returns of 8.50 per cent. If you commit to a monthly investment plan of Rs 5,000 for 8.50 per cent for 30 years, you will have a corpus of Rs 83.1 lakh. But if you committed to this plan and it returned just 5 per cent over 30 years, you will get just Rs 41.8 lakh and miss a life goal by a large margin. Therefore, it’s important that long-term plans provide good results. Endowment plans guarantee a minimum sum assured on maturity. The key is in knowing if the annual rate of return on this investment would beat a benchmark. For example, the 8.50 per cent you get on VPF or 7.1 per cent on PPF. If it doesn’t, you should strongly consider separating your insurance from your investments. The other thing you need to be mindful of is that you can’t liquidate insurance plans prematurely without suffering a degree of loss. Therefore, if the rate of return and liquidity are critical to you, it would be better for you to invest through other means such as ELSS and PF. A combination of a term plan plus investments such as ELSS (or PF for the risk-averse) may give you the benefit of ample coverage, high tax-free returns and liquidity when you need it. The writer is CEO, BankBazaar.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-103
22-03-2021||Business||Jewellers fear 20% export drop after Covid disrupts demand||Gems and jewellery export in 2020-21 could end up around 20 per cent lower after the Covid-19 pandemic disrupted demand in the first half of the fiscal. Gross gems and jewellery export from India between April 2019 and March 2020, including cut and polished diamonds, gold, silver and platinum jewellery and coloured gemstones was Rs 2.51 lakh crore, according to data from industry body Gems and Jewellery Export Promotion Council (GJEPC). “The expectation is exports could end around 20 per cent down which is not bad considering the situation in the months of April, May, June and July of the fiscal. On a month-on-month basis, we are already at pre-Covid level,” said Colin Shah, chairman, GJEPC, on the sidelines of an event organised by the Indian Chamber of Commerce on Saturday. Shah said that a policy focussing on e-commerce for the gems and jewellery sector is in the works covering aspects such as payments, collection, shipping and returns. Sale of jewellery through online channels has picked up after retail stores remained shut across the country in the early months of the ongoing fiscal to prevent the spread of Covid. Last month GJEPC had announced its collaboration with eBay to boost retail exports of gems and jewellery from India. Exports are expected to grow to $75 billion by 2025 and e-commerce could play a crucial role. Shah also said that a common facility centre has been built in Bowbazar, Calcutta, to encourage small artisans to avail technology towards building global standard jewellery. Code of conduct The World Gold Council is in the process of formulating a code of conduct for the gems and jewellery industry with an objective to put together a structure to enhance trust in the industry. Somasundaram PR, managing director of the World Gold Council, India, said a steering committee has been put together to formulate the code. “We would soon be reaching out to every jeweller and association as much as is practically possible,” he said at the ICC organised event. He added that there is a need for collecting credible data on the industry which can then be utilised by the policymakers. Pay from home Jewellery major Tanishq on Saturday said that it will facilitate buyers in the poll-bound states to purchase jewellery during the election months from their home. The service,being piloted in Tamil Nadu, Puducherry, Kerala and Bengal, will allow customers who opt for cash payments to complete the payment process with the company facilitating cash collection from home. Imports fall Gold imports, which have a bearing on the country’s current account deficit (CAD), fell 3.3 per cent to $26.11 billion during April-February 2020-21, according to the commerce ministry data. Imports of the yellow metal stood at $27 billion in April-February 2019-20. The decline in gold imports has helped in narrowing the country’s trade deficit to $84.62 billion during the 11-month of the current fiscal against $151.37 billion a year ago. India is the largest importer of gold, which mainly caters to the demand of the jewellery industry. In volume terms, the country imports 800-900 tonnes of gold annually.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-103
22-03-2021||Business||Reliance Industries sells bulk of gas to affiliate||Reliance Industries Ltd has sold three-fourth of the gas from its coal seams in Madhya Pradesh to an affiliate of the company at a price of just over $6 per million British thermal unit (mBtu) at current oil prices. India Gas Solutions Private Limited, a 50: 50 joint venture of RIL and UK’s BP, bought 0.62 million standard cubic metres per day (mscmd) out of the 0.82 mscmd gas bid out in an auction last week, three people with knowledge of the matter said. State-owned gas utility GAIL India Ltd cornered 0.17 mscmd, while 0.03 mmscmd was picked up by Reliance Gas Pipeline — the entity that transports gas from the coal-bed methane (CBM) blocks in Madhya Pradesh to consumers. Reliance initially set 9.5 per cent of Brent rate as the base or minimum price and asked bidders to “enter bids that are higher than or equal to it”. It later lowered the base price to 8.7 per cent of Brent. At the current $67 per barrel Brent crude oil price, the price of gas produced from coal seams, called CBM, comes to $6.1 per million British thermal unit (mBtu). “A bidder shall be required to quote the variable denoted as ‘V’ in percentage terms as a positive number” of the dated Brent price, the notice said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-103
22-03-2021||Business||Saudi Arabian state oil giant Aramco sees recovery signs||Saudi Arabian state oil giant Aramco is betting on an Asian-led rebound in energy demand this year after it reported a steep slide in net profit for 2020 on Sunday and scaled back its spending plans. The Covid-19 pandemic took a heavy toll on the company and its global peers in 2020, but oil prices have rallied this year as economies recover from last year’s downturn and after oil producers extended output cuts. “We are pleased that there are signs of a recovery,” Aramco CEO Amin Nasser told an earnings call. “China is also very close to pre-pandemic levels. So in Asia, East Asia in particular, there is strong pickup in demand.” He said demand in Europe and the United States would improve with more deployment of vaccines. Global oil demand is expected to reach 99 million barrels per day by the end of this year, he said. Aramco lowered its guidance for capital expenditure in 2021 to around $35 billion from a range of $40 billion to $45 billion previously, according to a disclosure to the kingdom’s Tadawul bourse. Capital spending in 2020 was $27 billion. The world’s largest oil exporter said net profit fell 44.4 per cent to 183.76 billion riyals ($49 billion) for the year ended December 31 from 330.69 billion riyals a year earlier. Analysts had expected a 2020 net profit of 186.1 billion riyals, according to the mean estimate of analysts in Refinitiv’s Eikon. Aramco declared a dividend of $75 billion for 2020, but Nasser said there was no intention to increase the dividend this year from what's been pledged. “The dividend is in line with expectations, which is what holders of Aramco will care about most, but lower capex implies the company does not expect high oil prices to last for the long-term,” said Hasnain Malik, head of equity research at Tellimer. Through most of last year, Aramco's shares held up well against global oil companies in emerging and developed markets, but underperformed against the company’s peers when oil prices recovered.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-103
22-03-2021||Business||SUV crunch at Mercedes due to increase in global demand||Mercedes Benz India Limited (MBIL) has said its SUVs such as the GLC, GLE, GLS are in short supply on account of an increase in global demand. The German marquee is not going to reach its peak sales of 2018 this year because of the shortage, MBIL managing director Martin Schwenk said at the launch of an upgraded E-Class last week. “While on one hand this is a good thing because we have demand back, on the other, we won’t be able to sell much because of supply constraints,” said Schwenk. The company sold 7,893 units last year against 13,786 units a year ago, a decline of 43 per cent. The highest sales for Mercedes Benz in the country took place in 2018 when it sold 15,538 units. Asked if the supply crunch was because of pandemic-induced supply chain issues, Schwenk said: “It is more due to increased demand globally for our products.” The company received a capital infusion of Rs 1,750 crore early this year. When asked what the capital infusion was for, Schwenk said: “It was for improving the financial health of the company and extending its footprint.” Big-ticket launches Mercedes this year will be focusing on its sedans with a number of big-ticket launches lined up, including the A-Class limousine this month. “Sedan sales still is the biggest component contributing 53 per cent of our sales. But if 2020 was the year of SUVs, 2021 will be the year of sedans,” said the Merc CEO. The new E-Class will have an AMG version with a 3-litre engine for a price tag of Rs 80.9 lakh. The E-Class will also be available with a 2-litre diesel engine which will sell from Rs 64.8 lakh and a 2-litre petrol engine that will sell from Rs 63.6 lakh. The company has sold over 46,000 E-Classes in India cumulatively and the sedan accounts for 30 per cent of its sales. The new E-Class comes with segment first features such as off-roading capabilities. When asked if all these features will help E-Class to increase its share in the overall sales Schwenk said: “I hope it leads to a growth in the overall sales volume.” The company globally aims to have a carbon-neutral fleet by 2039 and hopes 15 per cent to 25 per cent of its global sales will be from electric vehicles (EVs). In India, the company has not set any target for EV sales. Its first EV, the EQC, will be open for the second phase of bookings but Schwenk refused to put a sales number to the EQCs sold in the first phase, saying: “We sold reasonably good numbers.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-103
22-03-2021||Business||Household debt in Q2 rises to 37% of GDP||The year-long pandemic left households more indebted, which has sharply jumped to 37.1 per cent of GDP in the second quarter of 2020-21, while their savings rate plunged to a low 10.4 per cent, according to latest data from the Reserve Bank. The household savings plunged as the pandemic has led to tens of millions losing jobs and almost all forced to take deep pay-cuts, forcing them to borrow more or dip into their savings to meet expenses. This led to the share of households in the overall credit market jumping to 51.5 per cent in the second quarter, up 130 basis points year-on-year. In a counter-seasonal manner, the pandemic-induced spike in the household financial savings rate in the first quarter of FY21, when it had touched an unprecedented 21 per cent of GDP, has plunged to 10.4 per cent in Q2, the March issue of the RBI bulletin released over the weekend showed. However, this was still higher than 9.8 per cent registered in Q2 of 2019-20, the report said. The RBI house economists said normally when the economy stalls or contract, household savings go up and when the economy recovers it falls as people become more confident of spending. In this case, the savings jumped to an unprecedented 21 per cent in Q1, when GDP contracted a record 23.9 per cent, and when contraction moderated to 7.5 per cent in Q2, household savings plunged to 10.4 per cent. “The inverse relation between household savings rate and GDP growth may sound counter-intuitive, but studies have shown that households tend to save more during the economic slowdown and greater income uncertainty,” the report argued. A similar trend was also observed during the global financial crisis in 2008-09 when household savings jumped 170 basis points as a percentage of GDP in 2008-09 and moderated subsequently as the economy picked up. But the report warned that the household savings rate would have further gone down in Q3, citing preliminary numbers as a result of near normal consumption and economic activity. While households’ deposits and borrowings have also picked up, their holding of currency and savings in mutual funds has moderated, the report said, which has attributed the increased consumption, particularly its discretionary components, to a resumption in economic activity following the easing of lockdowns. The reversal in household financial savings is corroborated by the lower surplus in the current account balance.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-103
22-03-2021||Business||IBM’s $1-trillion cloud goal following digitisation push||Multinational technology major IBM expects higher spending by Indian enterprises on cloud-based services accelerated by the increased push to digitisation following the Covid pandemic. “The pandemic has definitely accelerated the move to go digital and, hence, the adoption of cloud services has been on the rise. Dozens of business oriented applications today are connecting home-bound workers to collaborative tools that enable business continuity. This has led to an increased push for digitisation and has a direct impact on hybrid cloud adoption,” said Viswanath Ramaswamy, vice-president, technology, IBM technology sales, India and South Asia. Globally, more than a third of the company’s revenue is coming from the cloud business and the company anticipates hybrid cloud as a $1-trillion business opportunity. “According to the IBM CEO Study, in India, nearly six of the 10 Indian CEOs expect cloud computing to deliver results in the next 2-3 years. 45 per cent of CEOs in India expect AI/machine learning to deliver results in 2-3 years. We are seeing a direct impact of this shift in IBM’s hybrid cloud business – with cloud revenue topping $25 billion, up 20 per cent from the previous year and accounting for 37 per cent of IBM’s total revenue,” said Ramaswamy. “IBM has a $1-billion investment committed in the hybrid cloud ecosystem over the next three years to support partners and help clients with high value skills, solutions and expertise required to be competitive and resilient,” he added. The company, in a bid to strengthen its hybrid cloud and AI portfolio, have announced 10 acquisitions since Arvind Krishna took over as the CEO in April 2020 and seven of them were since October. Krishna was elevated as the chairman effective from January 2021. In India, business is expected to come from a variety of sectors such as banking and financial services, manufacturing, public sector, telecommunications, automotive, retail among others. “According to a recent study from IBM’s Institute of Business Value, customers in India currently have 17 per cent of their IT spend allocated to cloud at present and as part of the cloud budget, they plan to increase the share of spend on hybrid from 42 per cent to 49 per cent by 2023,” said Ramaswamy. He added that there is an increased interest to adopt a platform approach which uses a combination of on-premise private cloud and public cloud architecture with resources from different cloud vendors.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-103
22-03-2021||Business||Sebi mulls perpetual bond tweak||Capital market regulator Sebi is expected to release a fresh circular on the valuation of perpetual bonds following the Centre seeking a revision of the rule to mark them over a 100-year period. The finance ministry had asked Sebi to drop the valuation formula but retain the prudential investment limits for mutual funds invested in these securities. The buzz is the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) may adopt a calibrated approach by first asking the fund houses to value them as 10-year bonds and gradually increase it to 100 years over a certain time-frame. Another option being talked about is to reduce the 100-year stipulation to 40 years, which is the longest dated tenor in the domestic markets at present. Such a step would not only reduce the steep valuation losses compared with the 100-year option but also answer the government’s concern that no benchmark exists for its present proposal. The market regulator’s circular had invited a surprise reaction from North Block: the department of financial services (DFS) asked Sebi to withdraw the directive to treat the bonds as 100-year tenor. The finance ministry fears the absence of a 100-year paper will hurt the valuations of these bonds at a time banks need capital support and the government hard-pressed to support them given its weak finances following the pandemic. However, the market regulator has not yet revised parts of the circular though it has time till March 31 to do. Reports say Sebi has defended its circular before the government. The market regulator is understood to have communicated to the government that these bonds are riskier in nature from the standpoint of the investors. The 100-year valuation may impact borrowing costs or yields of these bonds but the step will not kill the market, the capital regulator had told the government. Perpetual bonds or additional tier-1 (AT-1) bonds which are generally issued by banks — such bonds are permitted under Basel III norms — to shore up their capital. The bonds offer high interest rates and are popular with debt mutual funds, but they carry more risk. For instance, the issuer can even skip coupon payments in case of certain adverse events or they can even be written-down if a bank’s common equity tier 1 ratio falls below a certain threshold. The bonds have a call option which enables the issuer to buy them back at a fixed interval of say five or ten years when the principal is repaid. Since these instruments are perpetual in nature, debt mutual funds currently value them to the call option date. Sebi’s directive would mean they will have to be valued at 100-year maturity which will lead to lower valuation of these bonds in the portfolio of mutual funds. Banks fear this will reduce their popularity among fund houses leading to an uptick in their yields and raising the cost of borrowings by banks. Rating agency Icra has said in a report that at higher interest costs the fund houses may become choosy in picking up the perpetual bonds. “With constraints on investment limits, the funds may even become more selective in taking fresh exposure, which could mean that certain banks, despite a higher issuance cost in relation to their credit profile, may find it difficult to raise capital through these instruments in the desired quantum,’’ the rating agency added. According to Icra’s estimates, the total stock of AT-I bonds outstanding is Rs 1.03 lakh crore as on February 28, 2021, of which 70 per cent have been issued by PSU banks. Mutual funds hold 70 per cent of the AT-1 bonds in the market. After Sebi came out with the circular, banking stocks have been under pressure with the Nifty Bank index falling around five per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-103
