23-03-2021||Business||India files appeal against Cairn arbitration award||India is believed to have challenged in a court in The Hague an arbitration tribunal verdict that overturned its demand for Rs 10,247 crore in back taxes from Cairn Energy Plc -- the second time in three months that it has refused to accept an international award against retrospective tax. The appeal was filed on Monday, a source with knowledge of the matter said. The Finance Ministry spokesperson did not immediately respond to an e-mail sent for comments. The appeal against a three-member tribunal at the Permanent Court of Arbitration at The Hague invalidating India's Rs 10,247 crore tax claim on Cairn Energy and ordering the government to return the value of shares it had sold, dividends seized and tax refunds withheld, comes weeks before UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson's visit to India. The British Prime Minister is widely expected to broach India honouring international arbitration awards during his April 26 visit, another source said. In December, the government had challenged in a Singapore court an international arbitration tribunal verdict that overturned its demand for Rs 22,100 crore in back taxes from Vodafone Group Plc. Since the seat of Vodafone arbitration was Singapore, an appeal was filed in a court in that country. In the case of Cairn, the seat was The Hague and so an appeal has been filed in a court in the Netherlands, the first source said. The appeal was filed on a day when Minister of State for Finance Anurag Singh Thakur had told the Lok Sabha in a written reply that "any such decision on filing of appeal or otherwise is taken only after careful consideration of all aspects of the matter." The tribunal's 582-page detailed verdict that asked India to return USD 1.2 billion-plus interest and cost to Cairn was registered in the Netherlands on January 8 and New Delhi acknowledged it on January 19, the source said. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman had earlier this month indicated the government's intent of appealing against the award on grounds of it questioning the sovereign powers of India to levy taxes. Her ministry feels taxation is not a subject of bilateral investment treaties, like the UK-India Bilateral Investment Treaty under which Cairn had sought rescinding of the tax demand raised, and so the award should be appealed. It is of the opinion that Cairn set up a tax abusive structure in 2006 when it reorganised its India business to list the local unit, and did not pay taxes anywhere in the world on the gains that it made in India, they said, adding India had made an unsuccessful case of tax not being part of the treaty before the arbitration panel as well. However, the arbitration award specifically made it clear the base of the judgment was not a challenge to the 2012 law or India's sovereign right to tax. "The issue at stake is thus not a matter of domestic tax law, it is rather whether the fiscal measures taken by the state, valid or not under its own tax laws, violate international law," the tribunal had said in a unanimous verdict. The Hague panel found that a 2012 law passed by the Indian Parliament was a new tax, not a clarification of prior law that could be applied to earlier years. Cairn has moved courts in nine countries to enforce the award against India. The award has already been recognised by courts in the US, the UK, Netherlands, Canada and France and the same is in the process in Singapore, Japan, the United Arab Emirates and the Cayman Islands. The registration of the award is the first step towards its enforcement in the event of the government not paying the firm. Once the court recognises an arbitration award, the company can then petition it for seizing any Indian government assets such as bank accounts, payments to state-owned entities, airplanes and ships in those jurisdictions, to recover the monies due to it, sources said. Sources said the government believes that taxation is not covered under investment protection treaties with various countries and the law on taxation is a sovereign right of the country. While the treaties are primarily aimed at the protection of investments, the tax is levied on 'returns' earned by entities. But the Hague tribunal had gone into this claim and rejected it. Vodafone had challenged before the arbitration tribunal the demand for Rs 7,990 crore in capital gains taxes (Rs 22,100 crore after including interest and penalty) under the Netherlands-India Bilateral Investment Treaty (BIT). The demand pertained to Vodafone's USD 11-billion acquisition of 67 per cent stake in the mobile phone business owned by Hutchison Whampoa in 2007.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-101
23-03-2021||Business||Sensex ends 280 points higher, Nifty tops 14,800||Equity benchmark Sensex jumped 280 points on Tuesday following gains in index majors HDFC Bank, ICICI Bank and Reliance Industries despite a weak trend in global markets. The 30-share BSE index ended 280.15 points or 0.56 per cent higher at 50,051.44. The broader NSE Nifty advanced 78.35 points or 0.53 per cent to 14,814.75. UltraTech Cement was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 3 per cent, followed by IndusInd Bank, ICICI Bank, HDFC Bank, Titan, Axis Bank, SBI and Maruti. On the other hand, ONGC, PowerGrid, ITC, NTPC, M&M and HDFC were among the laggards. Domestic equities rebounded sharply despite weak global cues mainly supported by sharp recovery in financial stocks, said Binod Modi, Head - Strategy at Reliance Securities. "The Supreme Court pronounced that waiver of compound interest during loan moratorium should be for all. While there is still ambiguity about who will be bearing the additional burden, the comfort about the possible end of uncertainty about banks' NPAs led bank stocks to see sharp up-move," he noted. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul ended on a negative note. Stock exchanges in Europe were also trading with losses in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 3.53 per cent lower at USD 62.34 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-101
23-03-2021||Business||No compound, penal interest from borrowers during loan moratorium period, rules SC||In a relief to borrowers, the Supreme Court Tuesday directed that no compound or penal interest be charged during the six-month loan moratorium period announced last year amid the COVID-19 pandemic and the amount already charged shall be refunded, credited or adjusted. The apex court refused to interfere with the Centre's and the Reserve Bank of India (RBI's) decision to not extend the loan moratorium beyond August 31 last year, saying it is a policy decision. A bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan said that the top court cannot do judicial review of the Centre's financial policy decision unless it is malafide and arbitrary. The apex court said it cannot interfere with the government's decision to fix priorities for relief during the pandemic which has affected all across the country and the government has been under severe financial constraints. The bench said this in its verdict on a batch of pleas filed by various trade associations, including from real estate and power sectors, seeking extension of loan moratorium and other reliefs in view of the pandemic. The RBI had on March 27 last year issued the circular which allowed lending institutions to grant a moratorium on payment of instalments of term loans falling due between March 1, 2020 and May 31, 2020, due to the pandemic. Later, the moratorium was extended till August 31 last year. In its verdict, the top court said that from various steps taken by the government, it cannot be said that the Centre and the RBI have not considered the relief for the borrowers. The bench said it cannot strike down a policy decision merely at the behest of petitioners on grounds that the other view is possible and the other decision could be more beneficial. While refusing to go into the financial policy decision taken by the government, the bench said it is not open for the court to embark upon judicial review of policy decision merely at the behest of petitioners. It said that complete waiver of interest is not possible as it will have huge financial implications. The apex court had reserved its judgement on the batch of pleas on December 17 last year. The Centre had earlier submitted before the top court that if it were to consider waiving interest on all the loans and advances to all categories of borrowers for the six-month moratorium period announced by RBI, then the amount foregone would be more than Rs 6 lakh crore. If the banks were to bear this burden, then it would necessarily wipe out a substantial and a major part of their net worth, rendering most of the lenders unviable and raising a very serious question mark over their very survival, it had said. The government had said this was a main reason as to why waiver of interest was not even contemplated and only payment of instalments was deferred. Giving an illustration, it had said that in case of State Bank of India alone, waiver of six months' interest would completely wipe out over half of the bank's net worth which has accumulated over nearly 65 years of its existence. It had pointed out the sector-specific relief measures taken by the government for the small and mid-sized business/MSMEs including from sectors such as restaurants and hotels. The Centre has promulgated emergency credit-linked guarantee scheme (ECLGS) of Rs 3 lakh crore providing additional credit at lower rate of interest, with 100 per cent government guarantee and no fresh collateral, it had said. The scheme has been extended with higher financial limits to twenty seven COVID-19 impacted sectors including restaurant and hotel sectors, it had said. On November 27 last year, the top court had asked the Centre to ensure that all steps be taken to implement its decision to forego interest on eight specified categories of loans paid up to Rs 2 crore in view of the pandemic. The eight categories of loans are MSME (Micro, Small & Medium Enterprises), Education, Housing, Consumer durable, Credit card, Automobile, Personal and Consumption.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-101
23-03-2021||Business||Sensex surges over 300 pts in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex jumped over 300 points in early trade on Tuesday, tracking gains in index majors Reliance Industries, HDFC Bank and ICICI Bank amid a mixed trend in global markets. The 30-share BSE index was trading 301.17 points or 0.61 per cent higher at 50,072.46, and the broader NSE Nifty advanced 94.40 points or 0.64 per cent to 14,830.80. IndusInd Bank was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 2 per cent, followed by Axis Bank, HDFC Bank, ICICI Bank, UltraTech Cement and Maruti. On the other hand, PowerGrid, Asian Paints, Tech Mahindra and NTPC were among the laggards. In the previous session, Sensex ended 86.95 points or 0.17 per cent lower at 49,771.29, and Nifty dipped 7.60 points or 0.05 per cent to 14,736.40. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market on Monday as they offloaded shares worth Rs 786.98 crore, as per exchange data. Domestic equities look to be modestly good at the moment, said Binod Modi, Head Strategy at Reliance Securities. "A resurgence of Covid-19 cases in various parts of the country and resultant restrictions have clearly made investors jittery. This could continue to restrict market performance in the near term unless the virus spread is controlled. "However, recent drop in crude prices and resilient INR against dollar offer comfort. We further believe that 10-Year USA treasury yield is unlikely to move beyond a limit given rising yields factor in better prospects of economic recovery," he said. US markets finished higher yesterday mainly led by a sharp rebound in technology stocks, Modi said, adding that investors also got comfort after AstraZeneca cited that its COVID-19 vaccine was safe and 79 per cent effective in preventing the virus. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul were trading on a negative note in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.91 per cent lower at USD 64.03 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-101
23-03-2021||Business||Microsoft to allow more workers back into its headquarters in Redmond||Microsoft announced on Monday that it would begin allowing more workers back into its headquarters in Redmond, Washington, starting on March 29. In this stage of reopening, which Microsoft described as Step 4 in a six-step “dial”, the Redmond campus will give non-essential on-site employees the choice to work from the office, home or a combination of both. Microsoft will also continue to require employees to wear masks and maintain social distancing. Microsoft plans to open its office without restrictions only once the virus acts “more like an endemic virus such as the seasonal flu,” wrote Kurt DelBene, an executive vice-president at the tech giant. But even then, office life for Microsoft’s 160,000 employees is not likely to look like what it did before the pandemic. “Once we reach a point where Covid-19 no longer presents a significant burden on our communities, and as our sites move to the open stage of the dial, we view working from home part of the time (less than 50 per cent) as standard for most roles,” DelBene wrote on the company blog. Microsoft also released on Monday the results of a survey that shows the work force has changed after a year of working remotely. In the survey of more than 30,000 full-time and self-employed workers, 73 per cent said they wanted flexible remote work options to continue, and 46 per cent said they were planning to move this year now that they could work remotely. “There are some companies that think we’re just going to go back to how it was,” Jared Spataro, the corporate vice president for Microsoft 365, said in an interview. “However, the data does seem to indicate that they don’t understand what has happened over the last 12 months.” New York Times News Service||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-101
23-03-2021||Business|| Two Calcutta retail outlets start dispensing CNG commercially||Calcutta’s long wait for clean fuel compressed natural gas (CNG) ended on Monday as two retail outlets started dispensing the gas commercially to consumers. A BPCL pump at Garia and an Indian Oil outlet at Rajarhat added the city to a long list of urban agglomerates where the gas is available. At least five more outlets are expected to come up in and around the city to expand the network. The possible locations include Alipore, Belgachia, Rajarhat (Action area III), Chinar Park and Kalyani. Oil industry executives say expansion of the footprint of CNG stations would be critical to nudge customers to explore the possibility of buying dual feed vehicles or retrofit CNG kits to their existing cars. Some car owners like Beltala (Hazra)-resident Saumi Biswas did not wait. She bought a Maurti Alto which can run both on petrol and CNG. “Operating cost of the car should be 40-50 per cent lower. Moreover, it is going to be environment friendly,” Biswas said. Installation of a CNG kit, which includes the storage gas cylinder, in a passenger car is going to eat into the boot space. Yash Khara of Tomasetto Achilles, an Italian firm which deals in CNG and LPG kits, said the apprehension about luggage space has not deterred many passenger car owners from installing the kit in Delhi and Mumbai. “Bigger the boot space is better. However, small car owners are also installing,” he said. Suresh Bajla of Greenland petrol pump at Garia said 20-25 potential customers have over the last few days enquired about the availability of CNG.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-101
23-03-2021||Business||Zomato and MobiKwik reportedly planning an initial public offering||The activity in the primary market is not showing any signs of dying down with Zomato and MobiKwik reportedly planning an initial public offering (IPO) in the coming months. This comes even as four companies are set to debut on the bourses later this week. These are Kalyan Jewellers India Ltd, Anupam Rasayan, Craftsman Automation and Laxmi Organic Industries. Meanwhile, casual dining chain Barbeque Nation Hospitality on Monday fixed a price band of Rs 498-500 per share for its initial share sale. The offering will open for public subscription on March 24. According to a Bloomberg report, One MobiKwik System Pvt, the domestic digital wallet and payments start-up, is targeting an IPO before September wherein it could raise up to $250 million. The report added that it could file draft documents with the market regulator by May and the IPO could value the firm at $1 billion. Restaurant aggregator and food delivery start-up Zomato is also reportedly planning to file a draft prospectus for its initial share sale next month. It could mobilise close to $650 million from the issue. Barbeque Nation’s IPO will close for subscription on March 26. At the upper end of the price band, the IPO is expected to garner Rs 453 crore. The company has already raised Rs 150 crore through a pre-IPO placement  from Xponentia Capital and Jubilant Foodworks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-102
23-03-2021||Business||Govt collects Rs 2,94,482 crore in fuel excise duty during April-January of current fiscal||The Narendra Modi government seems to have raked in profits during the pandemic as it has collected Rs 2,94,482 crore in excise duty during April-January of the current fiscal, an increase of 68.7 per cent over the same period last year amidst plummeting global crude prices. During the six years of the BJP-led government, data showed that the central government’s tax collections from petrol and diesel have jumped over 300 per as excise duty on the two fuel was hiked. Excise duty collection during April-January of 2020-21  was Rs 2,94,482 crore, up from Rs 1,74,528 crore mopped up a year ago. As the pandemic spread and global crude oil prices dropped, the Modi government hiked the duties to shore up its revenues. In April last year, the US crude plunged deep into negative territory and Brent dropped below $20 per barrel, hit by the pandemic and a price war between oil giants Saudi Arabia and Russia. The excise duty rates on petrol and diesel as on March 1, 2020, was Rs 19.98 per litre and Rs 15.83 per litre, respectively. As on March 1, 2021, these rates are Rs  32.90 a litre and Rs 31.80 a litre, respectively. The increase represents a 64.66 per cent increase in the duty on petrol and a 100.88 per cent rise in the case of diesel and shows the extent to which the Centre gouged money from motorists and commercial vehicle fleets in the country. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had also acknowledged that consumers have a case for petrol and diesel prices to be brought down, but she faced dharamsankat or a piquant situation. The government has room to cut excise duty on petrol and diesel by up to Rs 8.5 per litre without impacting its target for revenue from the tax on the two fuels, analysts said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-102
23-03-2021||Business||Sebi sets crash code for bourses||The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) on Monday directed market infrastructure institutions to switch operations to their disaster recovery site within 45 minutes of any disruption in trading. This diktat comes in the wake of the technical glitch at the National Stock Exchange on February 24, which halted trading for nearly four hours. In a circular, the market regulator said that with advancement in technology and improved automation of processes, it was felt that the extant framework needs to be re-examined to reducing the time period specified for moving from Primary Data Centre to Disaster Recovery Site. The watchdog has, therefore, come out with a new framework. Sebi added that in the event of a disruption in any one or more of the ‘critical systems’, the institution would, within 30 minutes of the incident, declare it as ‘disaster’ and take measures to restore operations, including from disaster recovery site within 45 minutes of the declaration of the disaster. The new guidelines should be implemented within 90 days. Critical systems for an exchange or clearing corporation would include trading, risk management, collateral management, clearing and settlement and index computation. For a depository this will include systems supporting settlement process and inter-depository transfer system. Further, MIIs have been told to ensure that the Recovery Point Objective (RPO) — the maximum tolerable period for which data might be lost due to a major incident — would be 15 minutes. This means the exchanges will have to backup data every 15 minutes. This was 30 minutes earlier.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-102
23-03-2021||Business||Parliament passes bill to increase FDI limit in insurance sector||The Parliament on Monday passed a bill to increase the foreign direct investment (FDI) limit in the insurance sector to 74 per cent from 49 per cent. Piloting the Bill, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said the insurance sector faces a solvency ratio issue and the increase in the FDI limit would help them raise additional funds. “If growth capital is hard to come by, there will be a stress situation. In order that the stress situation is not left unattended, we need to raise the FDI limit,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-102
23-03-2021||Business||National Bank for Financing Infrastructure and Development Bill 2021 introduced in the Lok Sabha||The National Bank for Financing Infrastructure and Development (NaBFID) Bill 2021 introduced in the Lok Sabha says the proposed development finance institution (DFI) will get government guarantee support and direct access to liquidity from the Reserve Bank of India, which would help fund about 7,000 infrastructure projects . According to the statement of objects and reasons, introduced by finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, the bill seeks to enable the central government, multilateral institutions, sovereign wealth funds and such other institutions to hold equity in the NaBFID. The DFI will start with 100 per cent government ownership and raise low cost funds. Its borrowings can be guaranteed by the government, the bill said. “The Central Government may, on a request being made to it by the Institution, guarantee the bonds, debentures and loans issued by the Institution as to the repayment of principal and the payment of interest at such rate, terms and conditions as may be agreed by the Central Government.” The guarantee will be provided at a concessional rate, not exceeding 0.1 per cent. This guarantee may be extended to the DFI for borrowings from multilateral institutions, sovereign wealth funds and such other foreign institutions as may be prescribed, the bill said. Hedging costs in connection with any borrowing of foreign currency may be reimbursed by the central government in part or in full, it added. The bill said the developmental financial institution (DFI) will be permitted to “borrow money from the Reserve Bank repayable on demand or on the expiry of fixed periods not exceeding ninety days”. These short term funds can be “borrowed against the security of stocks, funds or securities (other than immovable property) in which a trustee is authorised to invest trust money by any law for the time being in force in India.” The DFI will also be able to borrow money from the Reserve Bank  against bills of exchange or promissory notes arising out of bona fide commercial or trade transactions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-102
23-03-2021||Business||Delhi high court bench removes stay on Future deal||A division bench of the Delhi high court on Monday stayed an order of a single judge that restrained Future Retail (FRL) from proceeding with its Rs 24,713-crore deal with Reliance Retail. It also stayed the single-judge order directing Future group founder Kishore Biyani and others to appear in the court on April 28. Similarly, the single judge’s direction imposing a cost of Rs 20 lakh on Future Group as well as its directors, asking them to deposit it in Prime Minister’s Relief Fund within two weeks for providing Covid-19 vaccination to senior citizens below the poverty line in Delhi was also stayed. The development led to a rally in Future group stocks. Shares of Future Retail jumped 6.27 per cent to settle at Rs 59.35 and Future Enterprises finished 9.92 per cent higher at Rs 9.53. Future Consumer Ltd shares surged 9.97 per cent to Rs 7.06, Future Market Networks rose 4.65 per cent to Rs 15.75 and Future Lifestyle Fashions Ltd gained 7.09 per cent to Rs 69.45 on the BSE. “We hereby stay the order of the single judge dated March 18, 2021 till the next date of hearing,” the division bench of Chief Justice D. N. Patel and Justice Jasmeet Singh said while listing the matter for further hearing on April 30. In the hearing on Monday, senior advocate Harish Salve, who appeared for Future Group, urged the court to stay all the directions passed by the single judge on March 18. Meanwhile, Future group on Monday said the National Company Law Tribunal can continue its hearing over the sale and merger of its retail business with Reliance Industries’ retail arm.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-102
23-03-2021||Business||Sebi relaxes rules on valuation of perpetual bonds||The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) on Monday relaxed the rules on the valuation of perpetual bonds by mutual funds. The capital market regulator has announced a glide path to prevent the immediate erosion in fund values of the perpetual bonds or additional Tier-I (AT-1) bonds . In a late evening circular, Sebi said the mutual funds can adopt “deemed residual maturity’’ to value existing as well as new bonds issued under the Basel III framework. Consequently, the deemed residual maturity will be 10 years till March 31, 2022. It will rise to 20 years from April 1 that year to September 30, 2022 and 30 years from October 1, 2022 till March 31, 2023. However, from April 1, 2023 onwards, they will be considered as 100 years from the date of issuance of the bond. Sebi had consulted the mutual fund industry to prepare the glide path. After the market regulator’s circular on March 10, the Department of Financial Services (DFS) of the finance ministry asked it to withdraw the directive to treat these bonds as of 100-year-tenor. North Block’s apprehensions arose from the fact there was no 100-year bond on the market to value the security. It also feared the abrupt drop in valuation will lead to NAV swings and the capital raising by PSU banks through AT1 bonds will be affected. Fund houses value the perpetual bonds to the call option date which could be five years or 10 years. Sebi’s current rules on valuation of securities that have a call date stipulate they should be done “at the lower of the value as obtained by valuing the security to final maturity and valuing the security to call option’’. Sources said that the relaxation announced by Sebi should be welcomed as it is now giving the industry sufficient time to converge towards the 100-year maturity valuation. Sebi had come out with the circular to protect retail investors from exposure to riskier instruments such as AT-1 bonds. Last year, the market regulator had said that banks can only issue these instruments to qualified institutional buyers. Further, the minimum allotment should be at least Rs 1 crore and the minimum trading lot size should be Rs 1 crore. This was made to put these bonds out of reach of the retail investor. Perpetual bonds which are generally issued by banks offer high interest rates and therefore they are popular with debt mutual funds but carry more risk. For instance, the issuer can even skip coupon payments in case of certain adverse events or they can even be written-down if a bank’s common equity tier 1 (CET1) ratio falls below a certain threshold.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-102
23-03-2021||Business||RBI announces five-member panel to vet applications for new banks||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Monday announced a five-member panel to vet applications for new banks and small finance banks, resuming an exercise after a five-year gap and almost four months after an internal working group of the apex bank proposed the entry of large industrial houses in banking. A standing external advisory committee (SEAC) will evaluate the on-tap applications for both universal banks and small finance banks. The draft guidelines for on-tap licences to universal banks were announced in 2016 and the small banks in 2019. Shyamala Gopinath, former deputy governor of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI), will head the panel. The other members include Revathy Iyer — director, central board, RBI; and B. Mahapatra, former executive director, RBI and at present chairman, National Payments Corporation of India (NPCI). T.N. Manoharan, former chairman, Canara Bank, and Hemant Contractor, former MD, State Bank of India and former chairman, Pension Fund Regulatory and Development Authority, are the other two members. The tenure of this panel will be three years. The RBI had earlier said it will screen applications for both the types of lenders to ensure their prima facie eligibility. The applications will go to SEAC . The panel’s recommendations will go to another screening committee, comprising the governor of the RBI and deputy governors, and finally the central board of the RBI will take the decision for in-principle approval. The validity of the in-principle approval will be 18 months and it would thereafter lapse automatically. Rejected applicants can also appeal against the decision within a month of receiving the communication from the RBI. According to the RBI’s guidelines, released in August 2016, individuals or professionals who are “residents" and have 10 years of experience in banking and finance at a senior level can apply for a universal bank. Further, entities or groups in the private sector that are “owned and controlled by residents” and have a successful track record for at least 10 years can also apply. The initial minimum paid-up voting equity capital for a bank was set at Rs 500 crore. In November 2020, an internal working group of the Reserve Bank of India has suggested major reforms in banking by allowing the entry of corporate houses and promoters to have higher stake over the long run. The working group has also recommended that large non-banks with asset size of Rs 50,000 crore, including those which are owned by a corporate house be allowed to convert to banks, subject to certain conditions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-102
