24-03-2021||Business||Sensex dips 871 points, Nifty below 14,600||Equity benchmark Sensex plunged 871 points on Wednesday due to across-the-board selling amid a negative trend in global markets. The 30-share BSE index ended 871.13 points or 1.74 per cent lower at 49,180.31.While the broader NSE Nifty declined 265.35 points or 1.79 per cent to 14,549.40. M&M was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding around 4 per cent, followed by SBI, ICICI Bank, Axis Bank, IndusInd Bank, ITC and NTPC. Bucking the overall trend, Asian Paints and PowerGrid closed with gains. "Domestic equities fell sharply on weak global cues and continued apprehensions among investors from a surge in coronavirus cases in the country,'' said Binod Modi, Head Strategy at Reliance Securities. Further, a sharp rebound in dollar index aggravated concerns despite dip in US bond yields and crude prices, he added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul plunged up to 2 per cent. Stock exchanges in Europe were also trading on a negative note in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 2.78 per cent higher at USD 62.48 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-100
24-03-2021||Business||Petrol price cut by 18 paise, diesel down by 17 paise per litre||In the first reduction in rates in over a year, petrol price on Wednesday was cut by 18 paise per litre and diesel by 17 paise a litre as international oil prices tumbled to the lowest since early February. Petrol price was cut to Rs 90.99 a litre in Delhi from Rs 91.17 per litre, according to a price notification of state-owned fuel retailers. Diesel now comes for Rs 81.30 a litre in the national capital, down from Rs 81.47 previously. Rates have been reduced across the country and vary from state to state depending on the local incidence of taxation (VAT). This is the first reduction in fuel prices in over a year. Prices were last reduced on March 16, 2020. Despite bouts of rate freeze, prices had gone up by a record Rs 21.58 per litre on petrol in the last one year. On diesel prices had increased by Rs 19.18 a litre. Prices which last month hit record highs including crossing Rs 100 mark in some places in Rajasthan, Maharasthra and Madhya Pradesh, had been on freeze since February-end when elections to five states including West Bengal, Assam, Tamil Nadu and Kerala were announced. In Mumbai, the petrol price was cut to Rs 97.40 a litre on Wednesday from Rs 97.57 while diesel rates were reduced to Rs 88.42 from Rs 88.60, the price notification showed. The rate reduction followed international oil prices tumbling to the lowest since early February as the second wave of Covid-19 infection clouded the prospects for a speedy recovery in consumption. West Texas Intermediate for May delivery was down to USD 57.76 in New York on Tuesday, the lowest close since February 5 while Brent for the same month lost USD 3.83 to USD 60.79 a barrel, the lowest since February 8. The rise in coronavirus cases is threatening the economy's recovery from the recession.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-100
24-03-2021||Business||Sensex tumbles over 300 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex dropped over 300 points in early trade on Wednesday, tracking losses in index majors Reliance Industries, ICICI Bank and Infosys amid a negative trend in global markets. The 30-share BSE index was trading 325.15 points or 0.65 per cent lower at 49,726.29, and the broader NSE Nifty declined 94.60 points or 0.64 per cent to 14,720.15. ONGC was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding around 2 per cent, followed by SBI, ICICI Bank, IndusInd Bank, Reliance Industries and Infosys. On the other hand, Asian Paints, Dr Reddy's PowerGrid and Sun Pharma were among the gainers. In the previous session, Sensex ended 280.15 points or 0.56 per cent higher at 50,051.44, and Nifty advanced 78.35 points or 0.53 per cent to 14,814.75. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market on Tuesday as they offloaded shares worth Rs 108.24 crore, as per exchange data. "The sudden surge in Covid-19 cases globally is a cause for concern. Markets had discounted sharp recovery in global GDP growth in 2021. But now, with parts of Germany, France and Italy going through the third wave and regional lockdowns, global GDP growth is likely to be below estimates," said V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services. The recent crash in crude is a reflection of reduced demand emanating from declining economic activity, he said, adding that in India, the second wave in some prominent cities is adding to the concern. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul were trading on a negative note in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.07 per cent higher at USD 60.83 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-100
24-03-2021||Business||Nissan India and Hero MotoCorp to raise prices of all model variants from April 1||Nissan India and Hero MotoCorp have said they intend to raise prices of all their model variants from April 1. Nissan India has announced a price hike across all available models for Nissan and Datsun. “There has been continuous escalation in auto component prices, and we have tried to absorb this escalation over the last few months,” said Rakesh Srivastava, managing director, Nissan Motor India.
Nissan retails the new B-segment SUV Magnite, the SUV Kicks and the Datsun brand offers the Redi-Go, Go and the Go +. Hero will make an upward revision in the ex-showroom prices of its motorcycles and scooters to partially offset the impact of increased commodity costs. The price increase across the range of two-wheelers will be up to Rs 2,500, and the exact quantum of the increase will vary on the basis of the model and the market. Jaguar I-Pace Jaguar Land Rover India on Tuesday announced the launch of the all-electric Jaguar I-Pace in India with a starting price of Rs 105.9 lakh (ex-showroom India). The Jaguar I-Pace is powered by a 90 kWh battery that delivers 294 kW power and 696 Nm torque, allowing it to accelerate from 0-100 km/h in just 4.8 seconds. Rohit Suri, president & managing director of JLR India, said: “Jaguar I-Pace is the first all-electric SUV that we’ve launched in India and it marks the beginning of our electrification journey.” About 22 retail outlets of JLR across 19 cities are now EV ready with over 35 EV chargers installed and more underway. To charge the Jaguar I-Pace, customers can use a Home Charging Cable that is provided with the vehicle or use a 7.4 kW AC wall mounted charger that is installed by Tata Power Ltd at the customer’s house for free. Customers can access Tata Power’s fast expanding EZ Charge network of around 200 I-Pace compatible charging points on a use and pay basis.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-100
24-03-2021||Business||Aramco still in talks with RIL for O2C stake||Saudi Aramco remains in discussion with Reliance Industries for a potential deal to buy a 20 per cent stake in its oil-to-chemicals (O2C) unit, Morgan Stanley said on Monday citing the Saudi firm’s analyst call post announcing 2020 earnings. Mukesh Ambani had in August 2019 announced talks for the sale of a 20 per cent stake in the O2C business, which comprises its twin oil refineries at Jamnagar in Gujarat and petrochemical assets, to the world’s largest oil exporter. The deal was to conclude by March 2020 but has been delayed. “Saudi Aramco’s calendar year 2020 conference call indicated that it is still in discussion with Reliance to evaluate existing opportunities as potential partners, regarding the non-binding MoU signed with Reliance for its O2C business,” Morgan Stanley said in a note. Besides refineries and petrochemical plants, the O2C business also comprises a 51 per cent stake in the fuel retailing business. It, however, does not include the upstream oil and gas producing assets such as the flagging KG-D6 block in the Bay of Bengal. Reliance had in 2019 put $75 billion as the value of O2C business after signing a non-binding letter of intent with Saudi Aramco. “Saudi Aramco remains in discussion with Reliance for a potential partnership,” Morgan Stanley said. With asset prices, industry outlook, and margins back to August 2019 levels, it saw a revival of the earnings upgrade cycle, led by energy. Multiples should surprise positively too as clarity on new energy investments rises.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-100
24-03-2021||Business|| Finance Bill 2021 passed in the Lok Sabha||The Finance Bill 2021 was passed in the Lok Sabha on Tuesday after the government conceded major changes in the equalisation levy on e-commerce firms and raised the tax-free threshold on provident fund contributions by employees. The bill also grants a 10-year income tax break to the proposed development financial institution (DFI) and a five-year income tax exemption to private development finance institutions licensed by the Reserve Bank of India. During the debate in the lower House, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said customs duties would be rationalised to help domestic businesses, especially the MSME segment. The bill said the 2 per cent equalisation levy on foreign-owned e-commerce companies will not apply if the companies have a permanent establishment in India. “Through the amendment I am moving today, I intend to clarify that equalisation levy is not applicable on consideration for goods which are owned by Indian residents," Sitharaman said. Rakesh Nangia, chairman of Nangia Andersen India, a consultancy, said “if goods or services listed on a foreign marketplace are owned or provided by an Indian resident or Indian permanent establishment of a foreign entity, it shall be out of the purview of the levy.” The government on Tuesday  also raised the deposit threshold limit to Rs 5 lakh per annum in provident fund for which interest would continue to be tax exempt, if there is no employer contribution. “The amendment shall impact only the government-sector employees, who contribute to the Statutory Provident Fund/ General Provident Fund. Consequently, while private sector employees earning interest on provident fund on annual contribution exceeding Rs 2.5 lakh would be required to pay tax on interest accruing on such excess contribution, for the government sector employees, the monetary ceiling shall be Rs 5 lakh,” Neha Malhotra, director, Nangia Andersen, said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-101
24-03-2021||Business||India challenges Cairn arbitration tribunal verdict in Hague court||India is believed to have challenged in a court in The Hague an arbitration tribunal verdict that overturned its demand for Rs 10,247 crore in back taxes from Cairn Energy Plc — the second time in three months that it has refused to accept an international award against retrospective tax. The appeal was filed on Monday, a source with knowledge of the matter said. The finance ministry spokesperson did not immediately respond to an e-mail sent for comments. The appeal against a three-member tribunal at the Permanent Court of Arbitration at The Hague invalidating India’s Rs 10,247 crore tax claim on Cairn Energy and ordering the government to return the value of shares it had sold, dividends seized and tax refunds withheld, comes weeks before UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s visit to India. The British Prime Minister is widely expected to broach India honouring international arbitration awards during his April 26 visit, another source said. In December, the government had challenged in a Singapore court an international arbitration tribunal verdict that overturned its demand for Rs 22,100 crore in back taxes from Vodafone Group Plc. The appeal was filed on a day minister of state for finance Anurag Singh Thakur had told the Lok Sabha in a written reply that “any such decision on filing of appeal or otherwise is taken only after careful consideration of all aspects of the matter.” The tribunal’s 582-page detailed verdict that asked India to return $1.2 billion-plus interest and cost to Cairn was registered in the Netherlands on January 8 and New Delhi acknowledged it on January 19, the source said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-101
24-03-2021||Business||Large industrial houses unlikely to get permission to set up banks||Large industrial houses are unlikely to get the permission to set up a bank given the conditions set by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI). On Monday, the banking regulator had announced a five-member Standing External Advisory Committee (SEAC) that will evaluate on-tap applications of both universal banks and small finance banks. It will be chaired by Shyamala Gopinath, former deputy governor, RBI. The RBI had last given permits for full-service banks in 2014. Industrial houses such as the Aditya Birla group, L&T Finance and Tata Sons had submitted applications. However, the central bank selected Bandhan Bank and IDFC. Subsequently, in 2016 it came out with the guidelines for on tap licensing of universal banks in the private sector. However, only one NBFC —  UAE Exchange and Financial Services Ltd, now renamed as Unimoni, applied for a license. A glance at the conditions set by the RBI shows it excludes large industrial houses with diversified lines of business. On promoters who could qualify for an on-tap universal banking license, the central bank has said that entities or groups in the private sector that are ‘‘owned and controlled by residents’’ and have a successful track record for at least 10 years can apply. However, if such an entity or group has total assets of Rs 5,000 crore or more, the non-financial business should not account for 40 per cent or more in terms of total assets or in terms of gross income. It added that existing non-banking financial companies (NBFCs) that are “controlled by residents’’ and have a successful track record for at least 10 years can also apply. However, any NBFC, which is a part of the group that has total assets of Rs 5,000 crore or more and that the non-financial business of the group accounts for 40 per cent or more in terms of total assets or in terms of gross income, is not eligible. Last year, an RBI panel has proposed that large corporates may be permitted to promote banks after necessary amendments to the Banking Regulations Act. The group recommended that "large corporate/industrial houses may be permitted to promote banks only after necessary amendments to the Banking Regulations Act, 1949 to deal with connected lending and exposures between the banks and other financial and non-financial group entities”. Recommendations of the group are  yet to be accepted by the RBI.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-101
24-03-2021||Business||SC permits waiver of penal interest for loan moratorium||The Supreme Court on Tuesday permitted the waiver of penal interest for all borrower who opted for a loan moratorium between April 1 and August 31 last year. However, it refused to concede a plea for an extension of the moratorium scheme beyond August 31 and rejected the prayer for sector-specific reliefs for stressed small businesses, power producers and real estate companies. A three-member bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, R. Subhash Reddy and M.R. Shah also vacated its earlier interim order that said the accounts of defaulters after August 31 2020 shall not be declared as non-performing assets (NPAs). While extending the penal interest waivers to all borrowers till August 31, 2020 and not just to those with loans up to Rs 2 crore, the court said any amount charged shall be refunded, credited or adjusted. The apex court refused to interfere with the Centre’s and the Reserve Bank of India (RBI's) decision to not extend the loan moratorium beyond August 31 last year, saying it is a policy decision. The apex court said there could be no judicial review of the Centre's policy decisions unless these were deemed to be malafide or arbitrary. The apex court turned down the plea of the petitioners to offer sector-specific relief. It said it cannot interfere with the government’s decision to fix priorities for relief during the pandemic which has affected all across the country . “Every sector might have suffered differently and therefore it will not be possible to provide sector specific/sector­wise reliefs. The petitioners cannot pray for sector specific relief by either waiver of interest or restructuring by way of present proceedings under Article 32 of the Constitution of India and   the   question   of   such   financial   stress   management measures requires   examination and consideration of several financial parameters and its impact.” Further, the bench clarified that the RBI circular of March 27 last year relating to the loan moratorium shall be applicable to all banks,  non­banking financial companies, housing finance companies and other financial institutions “compulsorily and mandatorily”. The clarification comes in the backdrop of doubts that the moratorium and other benefits announced by the RBI was applicable only to scheduled banks and not NBFCs. Bank impact Banks could see their bad loans rise Rs 1.3 lakh crore in the fourth quarter of this fiscal with the Supreme Court lifting the stay on the classification of defaults as non-performing assets (NPAs). Analysts said the lenders have already made adequate provisions and therefore it will not lead to any drastic impact on their bottomlines. Moreover, they can also begin resolution of such stressed assets.
On the refund of interest penalty, the analysts said the key question was whether the government would compensate the banks. “As per our estimates, the compounded interest (waiver of penal interest) for six month of moratorium across all lenders is estimated at Rs 13,500-14,000 crore. The government of India had already announced relief  for borrowers having borrowings upto Rs 2 crore which was estimated to cost around Rs 6,500 crore to the exchequer,”  Anil Gupta, vice-president – financial sector ratings, Icra, said. “With the announcement of waiver for all borrowers, the additional relief of around Rs 7,000-7,500 crore will need to be provided to borrowers,”  he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-101
