25-03-2021||Business||CBI raids over 100 locations in separate bank fraud cases of over Rs 3,700 crore||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Thursday carried out nationwide searches at 100 locations in separate alleged bank fraud cases of over Rs 3,700 crore, officials said. The coordinated search operation was spread across 11 states and pertained to 30 FIRs related to bank fraud, they said. "These searches are part of a special drive to book fraudsters on the complaints received from different nationalised banks in India. The complainant banks include Indian Overseas Bank, Union Bank of India, Bank of Baroda, Punjab National Bank, State Bank of India, IDBI, Canara Bank, Indian Bank and Central Bank of India," CBI spokesperson R C Joshi said. The searches were spread across Kanpur, Delhi, Ghaziabad, Mathura, Noida, Gurgaon, Chennai, Thiruvarur, Vellore, Tiruppur, Bengaluru, Guntur, Hyderabad, Ballari, Vadodara, Kolkata, West Godavari, Surat, Mumbai, Bhopal, Nimadi, Tirupati Visakhapatnam, Ahmedabad, Rajkot, Karnal, Jaipur and Sri Ganganagar. "It may be stated that the CBI has been receiving a number of complaints from various banks alleging cheating, diversion of funds, submission of fake/forged documents by different defaulting firms while obtaining loans/credit facilities etc," Joshi said. The CBI added it was receiving allegations that such firms have been turning defaulters, resulting in the loans becoming Non-Performing Assets (NPAs), thus causing heavy losses to the public sector banks. "After scrutiny, the cases are registered by CBI. Thorough investigation is carried out in order to book the culprits, take them to face the law and endeavour to salvage public money," Joshi said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-99
25-03-2021||Business||Sensex tanks 740 pts amid F&O expiry||Equity benchmark Sensex plunged 740 points on Thursday, dragged by losses in index majors Reliance Industries, Infosys and HDFC Bank as monthly derivatives expired amid weak cues from global markets.

The 30-share BSE index ended 740.19 points or 1.51 per cent lower at 48,440.12, and the broader NSE Nifty declined 224.50 points or 1.54 per cent to 14,324.90.

Maruti was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding around 4 per cent, followed by Bharti Airtel, HUL, NTPC, Bajaj Finance, UltraTech Cement, ONGC and Reliance Industries.

On the other hand, Dr Reddy's, ICICI Bank, L&T and HDFC were the gainers.

"Domestic equities fell for the third consecutive day despite favourable cues from Asian markets as prevailing concerns with regards to sharp rise in COVID-19 cases have clearly dented investors' sentiments," said Binod Modi, Head - Strategy at Reliance Securities.

Barring financials and metals, all key sectoral indices ended in red.

Further, futures and options (F&O) expiry factor also contributed to volatility, he noted, adding that market capitalisation of domestic market slipped below Rs 200 trillion first time after February 3, 2021, resulting in wealth erosion of over Rs 5 trillion in last two days.

Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai and Hong Kong were in the red, while Tokyo and Seoul ended on a positive note.

Stock exchanges in Europe were trading with losses in mid-session deals.

Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 1.35 per cent lower at USD 63.54 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-99
25-03-2021||Business||Bombay HC grants bail to Deepak Kochhar in ICICI Bank money laundering case||The Bombay High Court on Thursday granted bail to Deepak Kochhar, husband of former ICICI Bank CEO Chanda Kochhar, in a money laundering case registered by the Enforcement Directorate (ED). Kocchar had approached the high court after a special court in the city rejected his bail in December last year. Justice P D Naik of the high court granted bail to him on merits on Thursday. Kocchar was arrested by the ED in September last year under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) Act in the alleged ICICI Bank-Videocon money laundering case. The ED registered the money laundering case following an FIR registered by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) against the Kochhar couple, Videocon Group promoter Venugopal Dhoot, and others for allegedly causing loss to the ICICI Bank by sanctioning loans to the Videocon Group of companies in contravention to the policies of the ICICI Bank. Kochhar had argued that the ED had taken note of all the alleged proceeds of crime in the case, so there was no chance of him creating any third party rights, or interfering with the probe if out on bail. Last month, a special court had granted bail to Chhanda Kochhar in the same case on a bond of Rs 5 lakh. The ED had earlier alleged that Rs 64 crore out of a loan of Rs 300 crore sanctioned by a committee of ICICI Bank headed by Chanda Kochhar to Videocon International Electronics Ltd was transferred to Nupower Renewables Pvt Ltd by Videocon on September 8, 2009, a day after the disbursement of loan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-99
25-03-2021||Business||Sensex sinks over 400 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex dropped over 400 points in early trade on Thursday, dragged by losses in index majors Reliance Industries, Infosys and HDFC Bank amid foreign fund outflow and a weak trend in global markets. The 30-share BSE index was trading 404.94 points or 0.82 per cent lower at 48,775.37, and the broader NSE Nifty declined 113.50 points or 0.78 per cent to 14,435.90. IndusInd Bank was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding around 2 per cent, followed by Maruti, SBI, Axis Bank, Bajaj Finance, Reliance Industries, Infosys and HDFC Bank. On the other hand, ONGC, Titan, L&T and Dr Reddy's were among the gainers. In the previous session, the Sensex ended 871.13 points or 1.74 per cent lower at 49,180.31, and the Nifty declined 265.35 points or 1.79 per cent to 14,549.40. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market on Wednesday as they offloaded shares worth Rs 1,951.90 crore, as per exchange data. "The uncertainty in the market continues with increasing risk arising from the second wave of Covid-19 attack in India in the context of a third wave in parts of Europe," said V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services. Volatility is here to stay for some time before stability emerges, he said, adding that a major trend in the market now is the comeback of pharma stocks in recent days and the weakness in banking stocks. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai and Hong Kong were in the red in mid-session deals, while Tokyo and Seoul were trading on a positive note. Top bourses on Wall Street ended with significant losses in overnight trade. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 1.41 per cent lower at USD 63.50 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-99
25-03-2021||Business||Anupam Rasayan India stumbles on stock market debut||Anupam Rasayan India on Wednesday stumbled on its stock market debut. Shares of the speciality chemicals firm finished 5.24 per cent lower than its issue price on the BSE, with some experts citing high pricing as one of the reasons for the poor start. “The listing was disappointing considering the over subscription and the fact that the share failed to cross the issue price. While the domestic markets were weak, it still does not address the fact that a 44-times subscribed issue failed to cross the issue price,” said Arun Kejriwal, director, KRIS. Meanwhile, the IPO of Barbeque Nation Hospitality Limited was subscribed 1.33 times on Wednesday, the first day of subscription.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-99
25-03-2021||Business||DHFL owners booked in PMAY scam||The CBI has unearthed a scam linked to the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (PMAY) and registered a case against Kapil Wadhawan and Dheeraj Wadhawan, promoters of Dewan Housing Finance Corporation Limited (DHFL), for allegedly defrauding Rs 1,887 crore in interest subsidy from the government of India. The two brothers are already in jail facing fraud and money laundering charges in connection with the Yes Bank scam. Sources in the agency said the Dhawan brothers had allegedly created fake and fictitious home loan accounts and availed themselves of Rs 1,887 crore in interest subsidy from the Indian government. PMAY — Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s ambitious housing project for the poor — was announced in October 2015. The programme addresses urban housing shortage among the economically weaker sections, low and middle-income group categories, including slum dwellers, by ensuring a pucca house to all eligible urban households by 2022. The scheme is being implemented by the ministry of housing and urban affairs. Under the scheme, housing loans granted to people from the economically weaker sections and low and middle income groups are eligible for credit-linked interest subsidy. The subsidy is to be claimed by the financing institutions such as DHFL that have granted these loans. According to the CBI’s FIR, DHFL claimed that till December 2018 it had processed 88,651 loans under PMAY and received Rs 539.40 crore in subsidies with a further Rs 1,347.80 crore due. The agency has alleged that forensic audits revealed that Kapil and Dheeraj Wadhawan had opened 2.60 lakh fake housing loan accounts – several of which were under the PMAY scheme and claimed interest subsidies — in a fictitious Bandra branch of the organisation. “The forensic report of auditor firm M/S Grant Thompton, which was appointed by the present board of DHFL, revealed that Kapil and his brother Dheeraj Wadhawan had opened a fictitious Bandra branch of DHFL, where fake housing loan accounts were created in the data base,” the CBI has said in its FIR. The maximum loan amount eligible under the PMAY scheme is Rs 24 lakh. The subsidy amount is to be claimed by the financial institutions from National Housing Bank (NHB). The Centre disburses the subsidy amount to the NHB out of the budgetary provisions in the Union budget. “The interest subsidy varies from 3 per cent per annum to 6.5 per cent per annum and the subsidy is payable upfront  with a cap of Rs 2,30,156 to Rs 2,67,280 depending upon the category in which the borrower falls,” the CBI said in the FIR. “Source information revealed that several of bogus account in non-existent Bandra branch of DHFL was opened under PMAY and interest subsidy as per norms of PMAY were claimed from National Housing Bank with connivance of officials of NHB and thus committed fraud on the government exchequer.” The CBI has booked DHFL and its directors under Indian Penal Code Sections relating to criminal conspiracy, criminal breach of trust by public servant, cheating, forgery for cheating and use of forged document as genuine besides criminal misconduct by unknown public servants under the Prevention of Corruption Act. In June last year the CBI had filed a chargesheet against the Wadhawan brothers and Yes Bank founder Rana Kapoor in connection with suspicious loans sanctioned by Yes Bank and alleged quid pro kickbacks received by Kapoor and his family from Wadhawans for investing in DHFL. DHFL is also named as an accused in the Yes Bank scam. The Wadhawan brothers were arrested in April last year while Kapoor was arrested in March last year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-99
25-03-2021||Business||JSW closes in on Bhushan Power||West Wave Maritime & Allied Services Pvt Ltd, a promoter group entity belonging to Sajjan Jindal’s JSW Group, raised Rs 2,500 crore via non convertible debentures, tying up the last mile funding for the acquisition of Bhushan Power & Steel Ltd (BPSL). JSW Steel has promised to close the Rs 19,700-crore deal by March 31, even as it is aiming to complete the transaction as early as Thursday, March 25. The process will involve transferring the amount articulated in the resolution plan to the creditors, which largely consist of state-run banks and financial institutions. Corporate sources said the entire acquisition would be funded by borrowing, at least for now. JSW would look to bring in equity only at a later date. Moreover, the entire bulwark will be done by JSW alone, unlike in the case of Monnet Ispat, where it was only a minority equity partner. BPSL is one of the 12 large companies which were sent to the bankruptcy court by a diktat of the Reserve Bank of India in 2017. After many twists and turns, JSW emerged as the highest bidder for the company which operates a 2.8-million-tonne steel plant in Odisha, leaving Tata Steel and Liberty House of the UK behind. Monnet Ispat, which was also on the list of the 12 companies, was acquired by JSW in association with AION Capital, which picked up a 74 per cent stake. However, the Jindals appear to be going alone for BPSL. “The company may consider bringing equity at a later date,” a source close to the development said, adding the option of inducting a partner would be taken then. The arrangement to finance the entire transaction by debt comes in the background of the conditional payment JSW will make to the financial creditors. At least two court cases, one by the Enforcement Directorate and another by erstwhile promoter Sanjay Singhal, are still pending in the Supreme Court which may throw a spanner to the resolution plan. The committee of creditors agreed on March 5 that they would return the money paid by JSW in the case of an adverse judgment by the apex court, which may restrain the execution of the resolution plan. Financial creditors with a share of 97 per cent of the total debt exposure voted in favour of this arrangement. The State Bank of India will be the biggest beneficiary having Rs 9,825.67 crore admitted claim, followed by Punjab National Bank’s Rs 4,399 crore. An asset reconstruction firm has a debt of Rs 5,275 crore, while Canara Bank and Allahabad Bank have Rs 2,244-crore and Rs 2,130-crore debt, respectively. Apart from the steel plant in Odisha, unlisted BPSL owns a power plant and several downstream units across north India. The transaction will pave way for JSW Steel to mark its manufacturing presence in eastern India, which has so far been the strongholds of Tata Steel and SAIL.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-99
25-03-2021||Business||Dalmia Cement begins commercial production of its second line||Dalmia Cement (Bharat) Limited on Wednesday said that it has begun commercial production of its second line with a capacity of 2.25 million tonnes per annum (mtpa) at its Bengal Cement Works unit in Midnapore. The company has invested Rs 360 crore in the capacity expansion following which the overall capacity of the unit has increased to 4mtpa, making it the largest cement plant in the state. “The additional capacity will play a crucial role to ensure sufficient and timely supply adding to the efficiencies of the supply chain,” said Ujjwal Batria, chief operating officer, Dalmia Cement (Bharat) Limited. He added that the unit will aim to produce 100 per cent blended cement which is in line with the company’s commitment to become carbon negative by 2040. The company said that following the lockdown-led demand disruption, the cement sector is now witnessing buoyancy across the country. The recovery is led by demand from infrastructure, urban housing and the government’s rural housing schemes in the eastern and central region.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-99
25-03-2021||Business||Govt moves amendments to Airports Economic Regulatory Authority of India Act 2008||The government on Wednesday moved amendments to the Airports Economic Regulatory Authority of India Act 2008, which would help in the privatisation of smaller airports and boost air traffic growth in the country. Union civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri introduced the amendment bill in the Lok Sabha which intends to “amend the definition of a ‘major airport’ so as to extend its scope to determine the tariff for a group of airports also”. The Airports Economic Regulatory Authority of India has been determining the tariffs of aeronautical charges at major airports in the country. Under the present Act, a “major airport” has been defined to mean any airport which has, or is designated to have, annual passengers in excess of 35 lakh. However, it does not provide for determination of tariff for a group of airports. According to the statement of objects and reasons of the bill, the airports, where currently the traffic potential is low and loss making are not expected to attract reasonable competitive bids. Developing a greater number of airports through public-private partnership mode would expand air connectivity to relatively remote and far-flung areas. The Airports Authority of India (AAI) owns 137 airports in the country out of which AAI has formed joint venture in seven airports. Recently, AAI awarded six airports namely Ahmedabad, Jaipur in Rajasthan, Lucknow, Guwahati, Thiruvananthapuram and Mangalore for operations, management and development under a public private partnership (PPP) model for a period of 50 years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-100
25-03-2021||Business||Grasim Industries to raise funds by availing term loans or issuing debt securities||Grasim Industries, the AV Birla group company, on Wednesday said that it plans to raise funds by availing term loans or by issuing debt securities. In a regulatory filing, the company said that at its board meeting on Wednesday, the directors approved the raising of funds. It also authorised the finance committee of the board of directors “to finalise the mode, terms and conditions of raising of funds, including availment of term loans (in rupees or foreign currency) or issuance of securities” and decide on all matters and transactions relating to the same. Besides term loans, Grasim would look to raise funds by issuing debt securities, including foreign currency denominated bonds or debentures or securities, which may be issued in tranches, in India or overseas. The company here disclosed that this will be within the overall borrowing limit of Rs 10,000 crore. Grasim Industries did not disclose the reasons behind the latest fund raising programme. Shares of the company on Wednesday closed at Rs 1388.20, down 1.59 per cent over the last close. Earlier this year, the company announced its entry into the lucrative paints industry and said that it will invest Rs 5,000 crore in the business over the next three years. It said the new segment will add size, scale and diversity to its existing business portfolio.  Grasim also feels that the new business is likely to be value accretive to its stakeholders. According to the company, the high growth sector has registered a revenue CAGR of around 11 per cent during 2013-14 to 2018-19, and given the value migration from the unorganised to the organised market, the outlook remains robust, providing space for a quality new player. The firm had reported over a two-fold jump in its consolidated net profit to Rs 2,152.33 crore for the third quarter ended December 31. It had posted a net profit of Rs 1,039.82 crore during the corresponding quarter of the previous fiscal. Its revenue from operations during October-December 2020 rose 12.72 per cent to Rs 20,986.35 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-100
25-03-2021||Business||Rising Covid-19 cases send stocks slipping into the red again||Apprehensions that the rising number of Covid-19 cases in India and globally could delay economic recovery sent stocks slipping into the red again on Wednesday with the benchmark Sensex witnessing the worst-single day fall in almost a month as it crashed 871 points. Market experts are now cautioning that stock prices could remain under pressure over the next few sessions on reports of a new double mutant variant of coronavirus and a second wave of infection. Overseas cues were not encouraging either with various countries experiencing a third wave and imposing restrictions that could adversely impact the global economy. There have been other factors as well that have led to a fall in equity values. Purchases by FPIs have also slowed down. Provisional data from the stock exchanges indicated that they were net sellers worth Rs 1,952 crore. So far in March, they have purchased stocks worth Rs 15,055 crore against Rs 25,787 crore in February. Moreover, the IPO segment is also seeing hectic activity. In Wednesday’s trade, the Sensex opened lower at 49786.47 and hit an intra-day low of 49120.34 — a drop of 931 points. It, thereafter, ended at 49180.31, a drop of 871.13 points, or 1.74 per cent — its biggest one-day fall since February 26. The broader NSE Nifty dived 265.35 points, or 1.79 per cent, to settle at 14549.40. “The main reason for the fall on Wednesday included rising cases of Covid-19 in India and across the globe, which could delay economic recovery. This is also evident from the fall in crude prices over the last few days,” said Deepak Jasani, head of retail research, HDFC Securities. With stocks coming under pressure, impact was felt on the rupee as well and the currency fell by 12 paise to close the day at 72.55 against the dollar. “The coronavirus fears are resurfacing as cases have started to tick up all over the world. This is dampening the reopening and recovery optimism and will keep the safe-haven dollar demand intact. However, there is IPO euphoria in the market which is keeping the spot rupee below 73 levels,” said Rahul Gupta, head of research-currency, Emkay Global Financial Services. In the Sensex pack, all shares closed in the red, barring Asian Paints and PowerGrid. M&M was the top loser, falling around 4 per cent, followed by SBI, Axis Bank, ICICI Bank, IndusInd Bank, ITC and L&T. He added that the market seems doubtful that the vaccination race against the third pandemic wave can be won quickly. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul fell up to 2 per cent. Stock exchanges in Europe were also trading on a negative note in mid-session deals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-100
25-03-2021||Business||Finance Bill 2021: Slump sale tax tweak to hurt deals||Merger and acquisition (M&A) experts were sent into a tizzy after the government introduced an amendment in the Finance Bill 2021 that changed the tax treatment for slump sale transactions. The amendment in the Bill, which was passed by the Lok Sabha on Tuesday, says that the fair value of a slump sale transaction will be deemed to be the full value of the consideration received by the seller of the asset. Moreover, if the capital asset is goodwill, its value will be treated as nil if the taxpayer had not acquired it through a purchase from a previous owner. A slump sale of an asset involves a lump sum payment for an undertaking without assigning individual values to assets and liabilities that are being transferred. Businesses resort to a slump sale when an entire undertaking is being sold and it is either too difficult or extremely cumbersome to fix individual values to all the assets that are being sold. The Income Tax Act provides a special formula under Section 50B of the Income Tax Act to determine the capital gains on the sale which, at present, is the difference between the networth of the undertaking sold and the consideration received for it. The networth of the undertaking is calculated on the basis of the original cost of the asset and any added costs resulting from any improvements made. Long-term capital gains tax applies if the asset has been held by the seller for over 36 months. Otherwise, the seller has to pay a short-term capital gains tax which is higher. The tax amendment now  means that if the “fair value” of an undertaking is higher than the lump sum consideration it receives on a sale, then the higher figure will be taken into consideration while computing the capital gains irrespective of the actual consideration which it received for it. The new tax treatment formula for slump sale transactions is being seen as a major setback for corporate restructuring at a time companies have been looking to hive off assets to deal with a Covid-induced crisis. The amendment will take effect from April 1, 2020, and shall accordingly apply to assessment year 2021-22 and subsequent assessment years. Mehul Beda, partner at Dhruva Advisors LLP, said: “A major surprise is that in respect of sale of business as a going concern for a lump sum consideration, that is a ‘slump sale’, the lump sum consideration will be substituted with the fair market value of the business, for the purpose of computing capital gains. This amendment is likely to impact corporate restructuring and M&A, especially in situations, where a company transfers a particular business to a subsidiary, in anticipation of an investment by a strategic partner or a private equity investor.” “It will be interesting to see the fine print of the rules once it is prescribed especially if such rules will factor in liabilities, give weightage to actual sales consideration, provide for lump sum value based approach for the entire business and not itemised value being allocated to any outgoing asset,” said Vinita Krishnan, director at Khaitan & Co. She added: “Certainly parties may need to carefully evaluate the nature of intangibles that they are paying especially given the non-allowability of goodwill depreciation.” The tax law amendment has been made even as an appeal arising from a tax dispute is pending before the Supreme Court. The Madras high court had recently held that transfer of an undertaking for non-monetary consideration is not a ‘slump sale’, thus not chargeable to tax under the current tax law. The court had relied on an earlier judgment delivered by the Mumbai high court in another case. The rationale for the above judgments is that if there is no monetary consideration involved in the transaction, then the transaction may be regarded as an ‘exchange’ and not ‘sale’. Accordingly, it would be not possible for the tax department to bring such transactions within the ambit of the definition for a ‘slump sale’. The Centre believes that in several such transactions, a "sale" is actually disguised as a "transfer" by the parties to the transaction and ought, therefore, to be covered by the existing definition of a slump sale as it exists today.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-100
25-03-2021||Business||State-owned oil marketing companies cut petrol and diesel prices||State-owned oil marketing companies sprang a big surprise by cutting petrol and diesel prices for the first time in the past 12 months — ironically on a day when global benchmark crude prices soared by over 5 per cent after a bizarre incident in which a Panama-flagged container ship became wedged across the Suez canal disrupting all shipping traffic through the famed waterway. The Suez canal has never witnessed such an incident in its 150-year history, experts said. The Indian oil companies, which have held prices for the past 24 days after relentlessly raising prices 25 times since January 1, gave no reason for the sudden price cut, which comes just three days before five states, including Bengal, go to the polls. In two back-to-back cuts effective Wednesday and Thursday, the price of petrol will come down by 36 paise (18 paise on Wednesday and 18 paise on Thursday) in Calcutta to Rs 90.98 per litre. Price of diesel will be down 35 paise (17 paise on Wednesday and 18 paise on Thursday) to Rs 83.98. Fuel prices have risen dramatically since the start of the year and threatened to top Rs 100 a litre in certain parts of the country, stoking inflation and public anger against the Modi government which has raised federal taxes on the two fuels, by 64.6 per cent in the case of petrol and over 100 per cent in the case of diesel in the past 12 months. The excise duty on petrol was raised from Rs 19.98 a litre on March 1 last year to Rs 32.90 this year and that on diesel from Rs 15.83 a litre to Rs 31.80 a litre, sparking criticism against the Modi government for profiting at the expense of consumers during the pandemic. The government has tried to deflect public angst by seeking to blame the surge in pump prices on rising global crude rates. But when that didn’t quell criticism, it quietly nudged the oil companies to hold prices — until the election results which come out on May 2. On Wednesday, the Brent crude price for May delivery rose 5.25 per cent to $64.04 while the West Texas Intermediate, the US benchmark, climbed 5.47 per cent to $60.9 for the April contract. It was not immediately clear whether the Indian oil companies would slash fuel prices further after the two swift cuts. If they do, it will clearly signal that the compulsions of politics has been able to smother economic prudence. The big question on the mind of consumers if the prices of cooking gas will also be reduced to please the middle-class votebank. Four hikes in cooking gas prices have taken the price of LPG to Rs 845.50 in Calcutta. The LPG prices are generally revised on the first of each month. However, this may be put on hold as another hike in the middle of the election season would have political ramifications. Distant dream Bringing petrol and diesel under the GST regime is not possible for the next 8-10 years as no state is ready to face the annual revenue loss of over Rs 2 lakh crore on this account, BJP member Sushil Kumar Modi said in Rajya Sabha on Wednesday. He had headed the empowered committee of state finance ministers on GST. Speaking in support of the Finance Bill, the former finance minister of Bihar dared the Opposition to raise the matter in the GST Council, saying no chief minister or finance minister from non-NDA ruled states has opposed any decision of the GST Council. The Centre and states collectively collect over Rs 5 lakh crore tax on petroleum products, Modi said. The statement assumes significance in view of the outcry over the rise in petrol price for the past over one year that touched Rs 100 per litre in some states and the demand by the Congress and some other parties that petrol and diesel be brought under the GST regime.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-100
