26-03-2021||Business||Sensex rallies 568 points to close above 49,000||Equity benchmark Sensex rallied 568 points and Nifty reclaimed the 14,500 mark on Friday, tracking gains in index majors HDFC twins, HUL and ICICI Bank amid a positive trend in global markets. The 30-share BSE index ended 568.38 points or 1.17 per cent higher at 49,008.50. The broader NSE Nifty surged 182.40 points or 1.27 per cent to 14,507.30. Bajaj Finance was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising over 4 per cent, followed by Titan, Asian Paints, HUL, Bharti Airtel, Bajaj Auto and Nestle India. On the other hand, PowerGrid, IndusInd Bank, ITC and Maruti were the laggards. According to traders, domestic indices witnessed a smart recovery and ended on a strong note following the positive trend in global equity markets. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul ended with significant gains. Stock exchanges in Europe were also trading on a positive note in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 2.05 per cent higher at USD 63.22 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-98
26-03-2021||Business||Sensex rallies over 500 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex rallied over 500 points in early trade on Friday, tracking gains in index majors HDFC twins, ICICI Bank and L&T amid a positive trend in global markets.

The 30-share BSE index was trading 500.92 points or 1.03 per cent higher at 48,941.04, and the broader NSE Nifty surged 156.30 points or 1.09 per cent to 14,481.20.

L&T was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising over 2 per cent, followed by Bajaj Finserv, M&M, Tech Mahindra, NTPC, Asian Paints, ICICI Bank and HDFC duo.

On the other hand, PowerGrid, TCS, Dr Reddy's and Sun Pharma were among the laggards.

In the previous session, the Sensex ended 740.19 points or 1.51 per cent lower at 48,440.12, and the NSE Nifty declined 224.50 points or 1.54 per cent to 14,324.90.

Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market on Thursday as they offloaded shares worth Rs 3,383.60 crore, as per exchange data.

"Domestic equities look good at the moment. A sharp rise in COVID-19 cases in the country has clearly made investors risk averse in the domestic market. However, receding bond yields and oil prices this week have offered some comfort," said Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities.

In his view, ongoing concerns of the new wave of coronavirus in the country may keep markets volatile in the near term.

Meanwhile, US equities recovered from the day's low and finished with modest gains mainly supported by improved job data and revised GDP figures for the December quarter, he noted.

Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul were trading on a positive note in mid-session deals.

Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.86 per cent higher at USD 62.48 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-98
26-03-2021||Business||Residential apartments sale in Calcutta regains momentum||The sale of residential apartments in Calcutta appears to have regained the momentum seen before the onset of the pandemic, two separate reports published by brokerages suggest. More apartments are expected to be sold during the January-March quarter — which will come to a close in less then a week — compared with the same period of 2020, a quarter marked by disruption caused by the  lockdown. Anarock, which specialises in the residential market, reckoned 2,680 units were sold in Calcutta during the period, higher than 2,440 recorded in the same period of last year. JLL, which limits its coverage area to the core city, also noted that sales in this quarter were 105 per cent of the same period of last fiscal. It also found out that there has been an improvement in home sales every quarter since the lockdown was lifted. The report pointed out that the off-take of residential units in the January-March period of 2021 was driven by south suburbs (Joka, Kasba, Behala, Jadavpur, Tollygunj)  and east suburbs (EM Bypass, Rajarhat, Topsia)  with a combined contribution of over 70 per cent. Saket Mohta, managing director of Merlin Group, said: “My experience is also quite the same. Now, the numbers are more or less better than pre-Covid and (from) post lockdown there is a surge in sales.”
He said there is a high demand for projects where customers can move in readily, adding that the uptick is being witnessed from October 2020. National picture Even as the two reports agreed that there is a perceptible recovery in home sales post lockdown, they differed on the extent and the pace of it. Anarock claimed that 58,290 units were sold between January and March in the seven major cities of the country, which is 29 per cent higher than the same period of 2020 — which included a week of complete lockdown. JLL, however, claimed that housing sales are yet to breach the pre-Covid level, even though it was pretty close to doing so. They noted that the sales during January-March are at 93 per cent of last fiscal.
“The sustained growth in sales presents clear signs of demand and buyer confidence coming back to the market. This has been on the back of a historically low home loan interest rate, stagnant residential prices, lucrative payment plans and  freebies from developers and government incentives such as the reduction of stamp duty in states like Maharashtra and Karnataka (for affordable housing),” Samantak Das, chief economist of JLL and head research and REIS of JLL, said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-98
26-03-2021||Business||Harsh C. Mariwala named EY Entrepreneur of the Year 2020||Harsh C. Mariwala, chairman of Marico, was on Thursday named the EY Entrepreneur of the Year 2020. He will now represent India at the EY World Entrepreneur of the Year Award on June 10.
Prathap Chandra Reddy, founder and executive chairman, Apollo Hospitals Enterprise Ltd, was felicitated with the Lifetime Achievement Award. Awards were also announced for eight other categories. These include Byju Raveendran, founder and CEO, Think & Learn Pvt Ltd (BYJU’S), for business transformation; Peyush Bansal, founder and CEO, Lenskart Solutions Pvt Ltd, in the start-up category; Deepak Mehta, chairman and managing director, Deepak Nitrite Ltd, in manufacturing; Dinesh Agarwal, chief executive officer and managing director, IndiaMART InterMESH Ltd, in services. The other winners are Sushil Kumar Agarwal, MD and CEO, Aavas Financiers Ltd, in financial services; Darshan Patel, chairman and managing director, Vini Cosmetics Pvt Ltd, in consumer products and retail; Ameera Shah, managing director, Metropolis Healthcare Ltd, in life sciences and healthcare; and Suresh Narayanan, chairman and managing director, Nestle India Ltd, in the entrepreneurial CEO category. Mukesh Ambani, chairman and managing director of Reliance Industries, delivered the keynote address at the virtual awards ceremony. The winners were selected by a nine-member independent jury panel led by Uday Kotak.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-98
26-03-2021||Business||Sebi relaxes start-up listing norms||The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) on Thursday announced a clutch of relaxations to encourage the listing of start-ups even as it tightened rules for de-listing of other entities on the main board. At its board meeting on Thursday, the market regulator also made it mandatory for the top 1,000 listed firms on the basis of market capitalisation to have a dividend distribution policy (from the current top 500) and directed that they should also constitute a risk management committee. It also amended the Alternative Investment Fund (AIF) Regulations and made some changes to the framework for re-classification of promoter group entities. On start-ups In 2015, the market regulator had introduced a new segment called Institutional Trading Platform (ITP) to facilitate listing of new age start-ups. However, the ITP framework failed to evince interest. Subsequently in 2019, it attempted to revive the platform by introducing certain amendments to the ITP framework and renamed it as the Innovators Growth Platform (IGP). This IGP is aimed at technology-intensive issuers. At present, the key requirements for issuer companies to list under IGP are that 25 per cent of their pre-issue capital should have been held for at least a period of two years by qualified institutional buyers (QIBs), family trust, accredited investors (individuals with a net worth of over Rs 5 crore and income of over Rs 50 lakh or a body corporate with a net worth of over Rs 25 crore) and regulated entities like foreign portfolio investors. Further, not more than 10 per cent of the pre-issue capital held by accredited investors is to be considered for 25 per cent pre-issue capital eligibility requirement. The regulator decided to reduce the period of holding of 25 per cent of pre-issue capital of the issuer company by eligible investors to one year from the requirement of two years. More importantly, such investor’s pre-issue shareholding should be considered for the entire 25 per cent of the pre-issue capital of the issuer company against the current limit of only 10 per cent. On the listing of companies on the main board, the issuer company on IGP can allocate up to 60 per cent of the issue size on a discretionary basis, prior to the issue opening for subscription to eligible investors with a lock in of 30 days on such shares. Delisting disclosure The promoter or the acquirer will be required to disclose their intention to delist the company by making an initial public announcement. Further, the committee of independent directors will be required to provide their reasoned recommendations on the proposal for delisting. Moreover, timelines for completion of various activities as a part of the delisting process have been revised to make the process more efficient.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-98
26-03-2021||Business||Covid: Equity benchmarks crash for second straight session||Equity benchmarks crashed for the second straight session on Thursday as a spurt in Covid-19 cases in the country and fears of localised lockdowns triggered an across-the-board selloff. Bearish global cues and expiry of monthly derivative contracts added to the volatility, traders said. The 30-share BSE Sensex slumped 740.19 points or 1.51 per cent to close at 48440.12. The broader NSE Nifty tanked 224.50 points or 1.54 per cent to 14324.90. Maruti was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding 3.98 per cent, followed by HUL, Bharti Airtel, Bajaj Auto, NTPC, Bajaj Finance and UltraTech Cement. Only four index components managed to close in the green — Dr Reddy’s, ICICI Bank, HDFC and L&T, rising up to 0.74 per cent. “The increased rate of infection across the country and the world is creating more pessimism in the market. After the stellar rally, the market was on a consolidation stage during the last one month, which amplified after the sudden rise in infection impacting future economic growth. “The economic fallout in India from the reduction in world GDP growth is likely to be marginal. A fall in the rate of infection through tougher restrictions and pace in vaccination may quickly stabilise the market,” said Vinod Nair, head of research at Geojit Financial Services. Binod Modi, head of strategy at Reliance Securities, said the market capitalisation of the domestic market slipped below Rs 200 lakh crore for the first time after February 3, 2021, resulting in a wealth erosion of over Rs 5 lakh crore in the last two days. All sectoral indices ended in the red, with BSE telecom, power, auto, energy, utilities and realty indices declining as much as 3.14 per cent. Global markets retreated as investors fretted over the rising Covid-19 cases and the slow pace of vaccination in many countries. In Asia, bourses in Shanghai and Hong Kong were in the red, while Tokyo and Seoul ended on a positive note. Stock exchanges in Europe were trading with losses in mid-session deals. The global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 1.35 per cent lower at $63.54 per barrel. The rupee fell by another 7 paise to settle at 72.62 against the dollar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-98
26-03-2021||Business||RBI flags major concerns on cryptocurrencies to the govt||The RBI has flagged major concerns on cryptocurrencies to the Union government which is expected to make some important announcements on this soon,  governor Shaktikanta Das said on Thursday. However, there were no differences with the Centre on cryptocurrencies and both the RBI and the government were “committed to financial stability”, Das said. Speaking at the India Economic Conclave, Das said he has “reasons to believe” the government was in agreement with the “major concerns” flagged by the RBI . “Central bank digital currency is one thing. The cryptocurrencies which are traded in the market are something else,” Das said. “Both the RBI and the government are committed to financial stability. We have flagged certain concerns around these cryptocurrencies which are being traded in the market.’’ The Modi government has been sending mixed signals on cryptocurrencies. After the Centre proposed a complete ban on such currencies in a Bill presented in January, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had earlier this month said she was all for encouraging experiments on the field. The central bank had first banned banks and other regulated entities from supporting crypto transactions in 2018, which was struck down by the Supreme Court last year. Das said the RBI was assessing the implications of introducing  a Central Bank Digital Currency (CBDC). Disclosures by firms The ministry of corporate affairs in a notification said the companies would now be required to disclose their dealings in crypto currencies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-99
26-03-2021||Business||Covid resurgence will not hit growth: RBI Governor||RBI governor Shaktikanta Das said the fresh wave of Covid-19 infections across the country would not impact the recovery of the economy and the apex bank was unlikely to revise downwards its forecast of 10.5 per cent growth of the economy for this fiscal. The rising incidence of the coronavirus was a matter of concern but fresh lockdowns were unlikely and growth would not take a hit, Das said on Thursday at the Times Networks’ India Economic Conclave. The monetary policy committee (MPC) of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) will give its final growth estimate for this fiscal on April 7. The RBI governor does not anticipate a repeat of the nationwide lockdown seen last year. “Revival of economic activity should continue unabated and I don’t see a downward revision in 10.5 per cent growth estimate for 2021-22 which the RBI has given last month.” The country has an “insurance” to protect economic revival such as a fast-paced vaccination drive and a greater ability among people to follow protocols. Das reiterated the central bank will use all its policy tools to revive the economy, while ensuring price and financial stability. Das declined to comment on the new inflation targeting framework as he asked all to wait for the resolution of MPC on April 7. When asked about the state of the bond market, the RBI governor said the central bank and the market were not in a fight  even as he re-emphasised their relationship should be a non-combative one.
He added the RBI would like for an orderly evolution of the yield curve with no sudden spike. Further, the central bank does not want excessive volatilities in the forex market and has been accumulating reserves to protect against the possible impact of the withdrawal of the stimulus measures in advanced economies. India’s forex reserves are sufficient to cover for 18 months of imports. The RBI is not tracking any particular level of reserves and will ensure to keep the rupee stable, Das said. When asked about the budget proposal to privatise two state-run lenders, Das said  had been discussion between the Mint Street and North Block before the budget and after it as well, and added that the process is moving ahead.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-99
