27-03-2021||Business||Tata-Mistry case: Supreme Court rules in favour of Tatas||The Supreme Court on Friday has set aside the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal (NCLAT) order issued in December 2019 that ordered Tata Sons to reinstate Cyrus Mistry as it chairman. In a massive 282-page judgment, a bench headed by Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde rejected the plea of the Mistry group that the Tatas had indulged in oppression, mismanagement and had trampled with the rights of the minority shareholders, and hence the company should be wound up. “If someone, aggrieved after his removal from office can engage in shadow­boxing through the companies controlled by him, he cannot accuse the very same person who chose him as successor to be a shadow director. Someone who gained entry through the very same door, cannot condemn it when asked to exit,” the Supreme Court said. “Therefore, the challenge to the affirmative voting rights and the allegations revolving around pre-consultation and  pre clearance by the Trusts of all items in the agenda and RNT (Ratan Tata) indirect or direct influence or grip over the board are all liable to be rejected.” The court said Mistry’s removal as executive chairman of Tata Group was justified as “a person who tries to set his own house on fire for not getting what he perceives as legitimately due to him, does not deserve to continue as part of any decision making body”. The court passed the judgment while dealing with a batch of petitions filed by various Tata Group companies and cross petitions filed by SP (Shapoorji Pallonji) Group challenging the judgment passed by NCLAT on December 18, 2019. The bench expressed surprise that the NCLAT chose to order the reinstatement of Cyrus Mistry even when no such prayer was made by SP Group and further the tribunal had ordered his continuation beyond the actual tenure which ended technically on March 31, 2017. The apex court said a deemed public company can revert back to its status as a private company, in view of sub­section (2A) of Section 43A, by incorporating necessary provisions in the articles. “In simple terms, a company which becomes a deemed public company by operation of law, cannot be taken to have undergone a process of fermentation or coagulation like milk to become curd or yoghurt, having an irreversible effect. “Therefore, NCLAT was completely wrong in holding as though Tata Sons, in connivance with the Registrar of Companies did something clandestinely, contrary to the procedure established by law. The request made by Tata Sons and the action taken by the Registrar of Companies to amend the Certificate of Incorporation were perfectly in order,” the bench said upholding Tata Sons’ decision to rechristen itself as a private limited company. The court also declined to deal with the application moved by SP Group praying for the alternative relief of directing Tata Sons and others to cause a separation of ownership interests of SP Group in Tata Sons through a scheme of reduction of capital by extinguishing the shares held by SP Group in lieu of fair compensation. Tata Sons on Friday hailed the order by the Supreme Court. The order of the court vindicates its position and upholds the governance standards adopted by the conglomerate over the years, it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-97
27-03-2021||Business||Centre can ask 10 pc more share in profits from Barmer block to extend PSC with Vedanta: HC||The Delhi high court on Friday said the Centre can demand a 10 per cent higher share in the profit derived from oil produced by Vedanta from the Barmer oilfield in Rajasthan to extend the production-sharing contract (PSC) with the company for another 10 years. A bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh said no embargo can be placed on the right of the government to extend the contract on terms which are at variance with the initial terms of PSC, “so long as they are in public interest and subserve the purpose of maximising revenue generation”. The court also said that Vedanta does not have the right to demand extension of PSC on unilateral terms that suit its interest, overlooking the interest of the State, which is a trustee of the natural resources under a Constitutional mandate. “For all the aforesaid reasons, we hold that there cannot be extension of the PSC unconditionally, on the same terms and conditions which were prevailing 25 years ago, that is on May 15, 1995, the effective date,” the bench said. The court set aside a single-judge order of May 31, 2018, directing the government to extend the tenure of the contract for 10 years, till 2030, on the same terms and conditions as existed on May 15, 1995, when the PSC was executed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-98
27-03-2021||Business||Tata-Mistry case: No certainty on Article 75 action||The big question that hovers in the air is whether the Tatas will trigger Article 75 of its Articles of Association and force the Mistry camp to sell its minority stake in the holding company. Under this proviso, the 28 equity shareholders of Tata Sons simply need to pass a special resolution directing the two Shapoorji Pallonji group entities — Cyrus Investments Pvt. Ltd. and Sterling Investment Corporate Pvt. Ltd — to transfer the shares they hold to any of its existing members. It is not certain that Tata Sons will convene such a meeting. During the proceedings before the apex court last year, counsel for Tata Sons had said the company would not invoke the power of compulsory purchase under Article 75. But later that year, senior counsel Harish Salve had said the Tata group could consider buying the Mistry stake at a fair value. Last October, the Mistry camp had valued its 18.37 per cent stake at a little over Rs 1.78 lakh crore as part of a severance plan. The SP Group was prepared to accept shares of an equivalent value in the operational firms of the Tata group, including TCS, its most profitable entity. The Tatas, however, have computed the value of the SP group’s stake between Rs 70,000-80,000 crore, sources say. If they trigger Article 75, the Tatas will have to order an independent valuation of the group’s holding company, which could erupt into another messy legal battle. The other option would be to let the debt-laden SP Group sweat a little. The Mistry camp has no representative on the board of Tata Sons any longer and there is little likelihood of getting one. The apex court verdict clearly establishes that a board position doesn’t automatically come up with its 18.37 per cent stake. The Mistry side had tried to pledge the stake with a Canadian financier last year in exchange for funds to deal with their debt problems and were stymied by the Tatas. A pledge is no longer a conceivable option. With no say in the running of the group holding company, the SP group can only look forward to an annual dividend payout. This could become a sore point if Tata Sons chooses to pare or even skip dividends for a few years. There is a flip side to this: a freeze on dividends will hurt the Tata Trusts which use the money to fund the charitable causes they support. The court has left it to the two parties to the suit to decide on the way forward: an Article 75 option is on the table but the two sides could also decide to work out a deal. But it may take a while because the rancour between the two sides has been far too great. Negotiations can only begin when some of that animus dies down.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-98
27-03-2021||Business|| Financial bids for the privatisation of Air India to be invited in coming days||The financial bids for the privatisation of Air India would be invited in the coming days, Union civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri said on Friday. “We are looking at another timeline now, what is called a data room for prospective bidders to look at... that is opened up, 64 days for the financial bids to come in. After that it is the question of taking a decision and handing over the airline,” Puri said at the Times Networks’ India Economic Conclave. “There is no choice, we either privatise or we close the airline. We run a loss of Rs 20 crore every day despite Air India making money now. Because the mismanagement has resulted in a cumulative debt of Rs 60,000 crore,” Puri said. The government plans to wrap up the divestment process in the second half of the current calendar year. The shortlisted entities might be given time till June or early July this year to furnish their financial bids. After the bids are locked, the sale of Air India will take another 3-4 months to finalise after evaluation of the financial bids.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-98
27-03-2021||Business||Bhushan Power & Steel Ltd boost JSW’s output goal of 45 mn tonnes||The acquisition of Bhushan Power & Steel Ltd (BPSL) will empower JSW Steel to achieve the output milestone of 45 million tonnes (mt) ‘well ahead’ of the 2030 target, chairman Sajjan Jindal said on Friday. In a letter to BPSL employees shortly after concluding the Rs 19,700 crore buyout — the largest in the history of JSW — Sajjan Jindal said the transaction marked the entry of JSW into the eastern region. With the 2.5mt integrated plant at Odisha and two downstream units near Calcutta and Chandigarh, JSW will touch 26 million tonne output by the end of the next quarter. It will now operate three integrated mills in Karnataka, Maharashtra and Odisha, providing enough provisions to scale up each of the units. “As a valued member of the JSW family, your contribution will be key in bolstering our ambitious growth plans of achieving 45 mt annual  capacity well ahead of the 2030 timeline,” Jindal wrote in the letter. While BPSL allowed JSW to enter the East, where nearly all other major producers are present, it has also plans to build a greenfield plant in Odisha itself. However, it is often a gargantuan task, as noted by Jindal in the letter. “I am aware how difficult it is to build a greenfield steel plant of this size and this asset is indeed testament to your tireless effort,” Jindal wrote. M.V.S. Seshagiri Rao, joint managing director and group CFO, said the BPSL plant would be expanded to 4 million tonnes in the medium term. “We can expand each of the three plants to reach the target, apart from a new plant in Odisha, which we have committed,” Rao told The Telegraph. JSW will be the largest producer of India from the next quarter. Novel structure JSW Steel structured the transaction in a fashion to ensure that the debt raised to acquire BPSL will not be consolidated in the balance sheet of the listed company. Even as JSW Steel, the listed entity, holds 100 per cent in unlisted BPSL through a wholly owned subsidiary Piombino Steel Ltd (PSL) now, it will cede some stake to an unlisted group firm JSW Shipping & Logistics (JSLPL) going forward. JSW and JSLPL will ‘control’ BPSL, allowing the former not to consolidate the debt, taking a cue from Ind-AS accounting norm. They will only add a share of profit or loss of BPSL into their respective profit and loss accounts, sans the turnover. “It is a large transaction, biggest for JSW so far. We have been conscious not to take the debt on our books. The idea is to stabilise the acquired asset first,” Rao said. JSW Steel infused Rs 5,087 crore in the form of equity and convertible instruments from internal cash balance for the acquisition and took on Rs 10,800 crore of debt on the books of BPSL. Around Rs 3,531 crore was arranged by JSLPL and debt by Piombino.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-98
