28-03-2021||Business||Cairn to file lawsuits to pierce corporate veil between Centre and its owned companies ||UK's Cairn Energy Plc plans to bring lawsuits in the US and other countries to pierce the corporate veil between the Indian government and its owned companies such as in oil and gas, shipping, airline and banking sectors, to seize their overseas assets to recover USD 1.2 billion ordered by an international arbitration tribunal. The firm has moved courts in the US, UK, Canada, France, Singapore, the Netherlands and three other countries to register the December 2020 arbitration tribunal ruling that overturned the Indian government's Rs 10,247 crore demand in back taxes and ordered New Delhi to return USD 1.2 billion in value of shares it had sold, dividends seized and tax refunds withheld to recover the tax demand. With the government so far refusing to honour the arbitration award and instead choosing to challenge it, Cairn is looking to enforce it by seizing overseas Indian assets, Dennis Hranitzky, head of the sovereign litigation practice at Quinn Emanuel Urquhart & Sullivan, a law firm representing the company, told PTI. These assets can potentially be non-diplomatic ones and those owned by entities or companies controlled by the Indian government in those nine countries. "Cairn plans to bring lawsuits in the coming weeks to pierce the corporate veil to establish that (certain) state-owned entities are India's alter ego under Bancec" for enforcing the arbitration award, he said. The Bancec guidelines deal with determining when a judgment against a foreign state is enforceable against its agencies. The lawsuit will be similar to the one brought by Crystallex International Corp to attach property of Petroleos de Venezuela, S.A (PDVSA), the state-owned oil company of Venezuela, in Delaware couple of years back after the Latin American country failed to pay the firm USD 1.2 billion that an arbitration tribunal had ordered to pay in lieu of the 2011 seizing gold deposits held and developed by the firm. "Indian assets across several jurisdictions have been identified that Cairn will be seeking to seize to enforce the award," he said, refusing to name the assets the firm may be looking to attach to recover the USD 1.2 billion plus interest and cost that the arbitration tribunal had ordered. "Until we have commenced proceedings to seize the assets, this information is proprietary," he said. Cairn is pulling out all stops to recover the damages award, including hiring a team of asset recovery experts. Sources said the assets that can be attached could range from airplanes to ships, to oil and gas cargoes and bank accounts of state-owned entities. "Cairn is moving forward with its enforcement plans with all deliberate speed. The timetable for proceedings to seize assets varies from country to country. Under the laws of some countries, these proceedings can begin right away, whereas in others we will have to wait until after the award is recognised," he said without giving details. Cairn had previously said the money ultimately belongs to its shareholders -- which include large investors such as BlackRock, Fidelity and Franklin Templeton, and the ramifications of India not honouring the award will "run across the international investment community more widely". Its management team has held three rounds of face-to-face and one video conferencing discussions with top officials in the finance ministry. India has appealed against the arbitration award on the grounds that taxation-related matters are not covered in its bilateral investment treaty with the United Kingdom under which the case was filed, and therefore the arbitration tribunal does not have the jurisdiction to rule on the matter, sources said. However, the appeal in the Dutch court does not bar Cairn from taking action in other jurisdictions to recover the full amount of the arbitral award which totals USD 1.7 billion after including interest and cost as of December 2020. The company will seek to establish that state-owned entities/firms are India's alter ego under Bancec regulations, that is, to pierce the veil between the Indian government and them. 'Piercing the corporate veil' is a means of imposing liability on an underlying cause of action against a third-party which would not otherwise be liable. By this, Cairn will seek to pierce the veil in order to shift liability for payment of an existing judgment against the Republic of India to a third-party that is not otherwise liable, that is state-owned firms or banks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-97
28-03-2021||Business||LIC float likely to raise Rs 1 trillion||The proposed IPO of Life Insurance Corporation (LIC) is expected to garner at least Rs 1 lakh crore which would help to achieve the ambitious divestment target of Rs 1.75 lakh crore set in the Union budget for 2021-22. The disinvestment target for 2021-22 is a carryover of the Rs 2.10-lakh-crore target set for the current fiscal ending March 31. “Of this, BPCL privatisation and LIC listing itself were important contributors. There are estimates suggesting Rs 75,000-80,000 crore or even higher can just come from the privatisation of BPCL itself. The LIC IPO could bring in Rs 1 lakh crore approximately,” chief economic adviser (CEA) K.V. Subramanian said on Saturday. The government is selling its entire 52.98 per cent stake in BPCL in the nation’s biggest privatisation till date. Vedanta Group and private equity firms Apollo Global and I Squared Capital’s Indian unit Think Gas have put in an expression of interest to buy the government’s stake. With regard to LIC’s listing, the government has already got amendments in the LIC Act passed through Finance Bill 2021 in Parliament earlier this week. “These are numbers (disinvestment) which are imminently achievable because work had begun on many of these and they will be completed in FY22,” Subramanian said at a virtual conference by Jana Small Finance Bank. Increasing the authorised share capital of LIC to Rs 25,000 crore is among the 27 amendments relating to the insurance firm as part of the Finance Bill 2021. At present, the paid-up capital of the life insurance company with over 29 crore policies is Rs 100 crore. Starting with an initial capital of Rs 5 crore in 1956, LIC has an asset base of Rs 31,96,214.81 crore. The authorised share capital of LIC shall be Rs 25,000 crore divided into 2,500 crore shares of Rs 10 each, according to the amendments proposed in the Life Insurance Corporation Act, 1956. The amendments will lead to the setting up of a board with independent directors in line with the listing obligations. According to one of the 27 proposed amendments, the Centre will hold at least 75 per cent in LIC for the first five years after the IPO, and subsequently hold at least 51 per cent at all times after five years of the listing. Up to 10 per cent of the LIC IPO issue size would be reserved for policyholders. The government will remain the majority shareholder and continue to retain management control.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-97
28-03-2021||Business||Adani Transmission to acquire Warora-Kurnool Transmission for Rs 3,370 crore||Adani Transmission Ltd on Saturday said it has entered into a pact with Essel Infraprojects to acquire Warora-Kurnool Transmission Ltd (WKTL) for an enterprise value of Rs 3,370 crore. The acquisition is in sync with Adani Transmission’s strategy to enhance the value for its stakeholders, through organic as well as inorganic opportunities, ATL said in a statement. ATL, India’s largest private sector power transmission and retail distribution company, has signed definitive agreements with Essel Infraprojects for the acquisition. The regulatory approval for substitution of original awardees in the contract by ATL has already been received from the Central Electricity Regulatory Commission. The lenders consent and other necessary regulatory approvals shall be obtained before closure of transaction, the company said. With this acquisition, the cumulative network of ATL will reach 17,200 ckt km (circuit kilometres), out of which 12,350 ckt km is already operational and 4,850 ckt km (including this asset) is in various stages of execution.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-97
28-03-2021||Business||Screening of cars online a hit||About 7.6 million Indians chose to view the features of their next car in 3D mode over the internet in 2020. More than 90 per cent chose to buy the same model as explored online and blue and white were the most preferred colours for customers. Online screening of cars grew 300 per cent over 2019, according to a survey conducted by Eccentric Engine, a firm behind the platform called One 3D that enables vehicle visualisation and also collects data on the same. The survey had a sample size of 100 million interactions and over 5000 respondents across tier 1,2 and 3 cities collected from One 3D deployment across multiple touch points. One 3 D has been adopted by original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) such as Maruti Suzuki, Tata Motors, Nissan, MG Motor and Citroen. In the survey, 51 per cent of the digital sessions were from six top-tier cities — New Delhi, Mumbai, Pune, Hyderabad, Bangalore and Chennai. Tier-2 cities such as Lucknow logged 3 per cent of the digital sessions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-97
28-03-2021||Business||US threatens trade backlash||The United States Trade Representative (USTR) has proposed retaliatory trade actions against India and certain other countries that have imposed or are considering equalisation levy/digital services tax on e-commerce companies. It has issued notices seeking public comments on proposed trade actions against six countries, including India. The USTR, in a statement, said it “is proceeding with the public notice and comment process on possible trade actions to preserve procedural options before the conclusion of the statutory one-year time period for completing the investigations.” According to a USTR document on India, it has requested “written comments regarding a potential trade action in connection with the Section 301 investigation of India’s Digital Services Tax”. Sources in the government on Saturday said India will examine the proposed action with the stakeholders concerned and would take suitable measures, keeping in mind the trade and commercial interest of the country and overall interest of its people. In June 2020, the US initiated an investigation under Section 301 of the US Trade Act, 1974 against the taxation on digital services adopted or under consideration by India, Italy, Turkey, UK, Spain and Austria. The report of this investigation in January this year concluded that India’s equalisation levy, by its structure and operations, discriminates against US digital companies. It was strongly opposed by India. The US had requested for bilateral consultations in this matter, and India had submitted its comments to the USTR on July 15, 2020. It had also participated in a bilateral consultation held on November 5, 2020.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-97
