29-03-2021||Business||Manappuram plan to take Asirwad Microfinance public within a year||Manappuram Finance, the second-largest gold loan company in the country, is toying with the idea of hiving off and taking its microfinance arm Asirwad Microfinance public within a year, a top company official said. With a loan portfolio of over Rs 5,360 crore and close to 25 lakh customers across 23 states, Chennai-based Asirvad is the fourth-largest microfinance lender in the country in terms of the loan book. Founded in 2008 by S. V. Raja Vaidyanathan, Asirvad was taken over by Manappuram in February 2015 for Rs 48.63 crore. The V.P. Nandakumar-led company first bought a 71 per cent stake which was later increased to 95 per cent and the rest is with the founder Vaidyanathan. Under Manappuram, Asirvad has grown in leaps and bounds. From a loan book of just Rs 300 crore and a few lakh customers across 115 branches in Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Karnataka when it was bought over, the company has over 1,030 branches across 314 districts in 23 states (excluding Andhra Pradesh and Telangana) and a loan book of over Rs 5,358 crore as of 2020-end, of which over Rs 1,000 crore is in Tamil Nadu alone. As of the December 2020 quarter, Asirvad had a loan book of Rs 5,357.71 crore, a growth of 6.68 per cent from Rs 5,022.14 crore in the year-ago quarter. This makes the microlending arm the biggest vertical after the gold loan business for the group. “We are planning to hive off Asirvad within a year, and then take it public. We are looking at the right valuation. I am looking at a price to book value of 3-4 times, which is 2 times now,” said V.P. Nandakumar, founder and chief executive of Manappuram Finance Group.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-96
29-03-2021||Business||Cochin Shipyard Bengal unit by June 2021||Public sector Cochin Shipyard is expected to operationalise a Rs 170-crore modern shipbuilding facility that it is building in Bengal by June 2021. The state-owned company, under the administrative control of the ministry of ports, shipping and waterways, recently emerged as the lowest bidder for a Rs 10,000-crore contract by the Indian Navy to build next generation missile vessels. Cochin Shipyard Limited, through its wholly owned subsidiary Hooghly Cochin Shipyard Limited (HCSL), is currently setting up a modern shipbuilding facility at Nazirgunge, Bengal, at an estimated project cost of Rs 169.76 crore. “The facility is expected to be operationalised in the first quarter of the financial year 2021-22,” the document said. HCSL targets to construct various types of vessels like Ro-Ro vessels, river-sea cargo vessels for bulk, liquids, containers, passenger vessels and other watercraft for the inland waterways. Cochin Shipyard has also commissioned a new marine engineering training institute Vigyana Sagar, which was dedicated to the nation by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on February 14, 2021. The company recently inked a pact with Dredging Corporation and IHC Holland BV to locally build world-class dredgers in India. At present, India depends on foreign dredgers for dredging work worth about Rs 2,000 crore per annum. CSL, India’s leading shipyard, can build ships up to 1,10,000 dead weight tonnage (DWT) and repair ships up to 1,25,000 DWT.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-96
29-03-2021||Business||British government rejects Sanjeev Gupta's bailout plea||British ministers have rejected a request from mining magnate Sanjeev Gupta for a £170-million emergency loan to prevent his group, GFG Alliance, from collapsing, the Financial Times reported on Sunday. GFG, a holding company for Gupta’s assets, was the biggest recipient of financing from Greensill, a British financing company, which filed for insolvency earlier in March. The British government wrote back to Gupta formally rejecting the request last week due to multiple concerns, the FT reported, citing people familiar with the situation. GFG and the government did not immediately respond to a Reuters request for comment on the report. The conglomerate had been in talks with administrators of its former financial backer Greensill on a so-called standstill agreement. Last week, Reuters reported that GFG secured a loan from Trafigura in 2018 by agreeing a six-year deal to sell aluminium to the commodity trader at a discount to market prices. UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson had earlier said that the government is “actively engaged” with  Sanjeev Gupta-led Liberty Steel which has been undergoing crisis talks after the collapse of its biggest commercial lender Greensill Capital. Addressing a question in the House of Commons from the Opposition Labour Party about the estimated 5,000 jobs at risk at Liberty Steel, Johnson had said that the UK business secretary Kwasi Kwarteng had held three meetings with Liberty Steel to take the question forward and see what the government can do. There have been some calls for the nationalisation of the firm in order to save jobs. “I share very much the anxiety of families of steelworkers at Liberty Steel. We are actively engaged. We are investing huge sums in modernising British steel, making a commitment to British steel plants and making them more environmentally friendly,” he said. Labour leader Keir Starmer had accused the Conservative Party-led government of not prioritising the British steel industry. “The UK steel industry is under huge pressure, and the government’s failure to prioritise British steel in infrastructure projects is costing millions of pounds of investment,” said Starmer during the Prime Minister’s Questions in the Commons. But Johnson had countered that, saying thanks to leaving the European Union (EU), the UK can direct steel procurement of its major infrastructure projects to British firms.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-96
29-03-2021||Business||Skoda shelves electric car plans for India||Czech automaker Skoda is not likely to drive in its electric car in India anytime soon as it thinks the market is not ready for such vehicles because of the high acquisition cost compared with internal combustion cars, a top company official has said. The automaker, which sells models such as the Rapid and the Superb in the market right now and is gearing up to drive in SUV Kushaq in July, has also decided to stay away from diesel powertrains for now and bring in only petrol-powered cars. “The economics of electric (vehicles) doesn’t work in the mass segments just yet. The battery prices have come down but not to an extent where they could compete with internal combustion engine cars and that is some years away,” Skoda Auto Volkswagen India managing director Gurpratap Boparai said. The electric vehicle business is not viable currently as the economics do not work, he added. He was responding to a query whether the company is looking to launch electric vehicles in the country. “Having said that the group is the one that has committed the most to electrification globally, and great steps have been taken in other markets. Those steps will get replicated here when either incentives are sufficient or the costs have come down,” Boparai noted. Under the India 2.0 Project, German automotive group Volkswagen had announced in 2018 that it would invest 1 billion euros between 2019 and 2021 as part of its strategy to enhance its presence in India. Skoda is responsible for pressing ahead with the India 2.0 project on behalf of Volkswagen Group since June 2018.  Boparai said the Volkswagen group would have its representation in the electric segment with a premium offering from group firm Audi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-96
29-03-2021||Business||Demand for CNG cars rises in Calcutta||With the inauguration of two CNG pumps in the city, Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEM)s are gearing up to sell their CNG portfolio to customers here. Maruti Suzuki India Ltd (MSIL) which sells factory fitted CNG vehicles has already sold a few vehicles last week including the Dzire Tour S and Alto. Others including Hyundai and Tata Motors offers dealership fitted CNG vehicles. With a running cost of Rs 3 per kilometer in Calcutta (according to a fleet operator), CNG is not only cheaper than petrol or diesel which have running costs of Rs 7 per km and Rs 6 per km respectively, it is also an eco-friendly fuel that is retailing at Calcutta at Rs 67.67 per kg. Apart from Calcutta, there are CNG stations at Durgapur, Asansol, Bardhaman and Krishnanagar. “Till December 2020, total number of CNG stations in Bengal stood at 13 where as all-India there were 2,540 stations. In the next five years, Bengal will have 510 stations and pan-India the number will be 1,18,000,” said Shashank Srivastava, executive director, marketing and sales, MSIL. “While the overall industry has been down, CNG vehicles has shown a steady growth over the years. In FY 2017-18, Maruti sold 75,400 units, in FY18-19, 99,800, in FY 19-20, 106,000, in FY 2021, 139,000 vehicles. “Maruti’s CNG portfolio includes Alto, Celerio, Wagon-R, S-Presso, Eeco, Ertiga, Tour S and Super Carry and the company enjoys 88 per cent of the market share in CNG segment.  On an average, Maruti’s CNG variants give a mileage of 29 km per kg. Moreover, CNG vehicles are about Rs 75000 cheaper than diesel vehicles,” said Srivastava.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-97
29-03-2021||Business||RBI likely to maintain status quo at its next monetary policy review ||Amid uncertainty created by a surge in coronavirus cases, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) is likely to maintain status quo at its next monetary policy review and wait for some more time before taking any action to spur growth. The RBI is slated to announce its first bi-monthly monetary policy of the 2021-22 fiscal on April 7, 2021 after a three-day meeting of the Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) headed by RBI governor Shaktikanta Das. On February 5, after the last MPC meet, the central bank had kept the key interest rate (repo) unchanged citing inflationary concerns. According to experts, the RBI is likely to continue with the accommodative monetary policy stance and wait for an opportune time to announce monetary action with a view to ensure the best possible outcome in terms of pushing growth without sacrificing the main objective of containing inflation. In a report, Dun & Bradstreet said the recent surge in the Covid-19 cases and the restrictions imposed by several states will impose further uncertainty and hurdles to the pace of revival of industrial production. Dun & Bradstreet global chief economist Arun Singh said long-term yields are hardening, leading to rise in borrowing costs. “In this context, the Reserve Bank of India faces the difficult task of managing the inflationary pressures while preventing a rise in the borrowing cost. “Despite the rising inflationary pressures, we expect the RBI to keep the policy repo rate unchanged in the forthcoming monetary policy review in view of the uncertainty posed by the sharp rise in Covid-19 cases,” he said. When asked about his expectations from the next MPC, Anarock Property Consultants chairman Anuj Puri said that with consumer inflation fluctuating and not yet stable and the policy repo rate also being substantially reduced by 115 basis points since February 2020, the RBI may consider keeping the rates on hold. “It is likely to keep an eye on how the inflation and the economic recovery pans out in the coming months amid the rising Covid-19 cases in the country. “India is witnessing a second wave with partial lockdowns being imposed across different states and cities. In such a scenario, it is only likely that the RBI will maintain status quo,” he said. Moreover, Puri added that even while the real estate industry's perennial hope is fixed on lower interest rates, the prevailing lowest-best home loan rates starting as low as 6.70 per cent are enticing enough for homebuyers. In a recent report, UBS Securities India economist Tanvee Gupta Jain expected the RBI to maintain comfortable liquidity in the near term to ensure least disruption to the government’s borrowing programme and support the economic recovery at a time Covid-19 cases are resurging in India. “We continue to expect the central bank to pursue policy normalisation in the second half of FY22 to keep inflationary pressures contained and preserve financial stability. “In our base case, we expect the MPC to shift towards a neutral policy stance and/or pursue reverse repo rate hikes (25-40bp) without recourse to policy (repo) rate hikes in FY22. We expect the repo rate to be hiked by 50 bps but only towards H2FY23,” Jain said Meanwhile, an Anand Rathi report said that the reversal of the softening trend of retail inflation seen in the past three months would put the RBI under pressure to review the extent of monetary and liquidity accommodation. “Hardening of core inflation would be of special discomfort. Despite these, the continued growth concern is likely to keep monetary policy accommodative during 2021,” it said. The policy repo rate or the short-term lending is currently at 4 per cent, and the reverse repo rate is 3.35 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-97
29-03-2021||Business|| Govt unlikely to take zero-coupon bond route to further recapitalise public sector banks||The government is unlikely to take the zero-coupon bond route to further recapitalise public sector banks after the Reserve Bank expressed some concerns in this regard, sources said. The government, they said, would resort back to recapitalisation bonds bearing a coupon rate for capital infusion in these banks. To save interest burden and ease the fiscal pressure, the government last year decided to issue zero-coupon bonds for meeting the capital needs of the banks. The first test case of the new mechanism was a capital infusion of Rs 5,500 crore into Punjab and Sind Bank by issuing zero-coupon bonds of six different maturities last year. These special securities with tenure of 10-15 years are non-interest bearing and valued at par. However, the RBI raised some concerns with regard to calculation of an effective capital infusion made in any bank through this instrument issued at par, sources said. As such bonds usually are non-interest bearing but issued at a deep discount to the face value, it is difficult to ascertain a net present value, they added. As a result, sources said, it has been concluded to do away with zero-coupon bond for recapitalisation. These special bonds are non-interest bearing and issued at par to a bank, they said adding that it would be an investment that would not earn any return and rather depreciate with each passing year. This innovative mechanism was adopted to ease the financial burden as the government has already spent Rs 22,086.54 crore as interest payment towards the recapitalisation bonds for PSBs in the last two financial years. During FY 2018-19, the government paid Rs 5,800.55 crore as interest on such bonds issued to public sector banks for pumping in the capital so that they could meet the regulatory norms under the Basel-III guidelines. In the subsequent year, according to the official document, the interest payment by the government surged three times to Rs 16,285.99 crore to PSBs as they have been holding these papers. For the current financial year, interest payment for recap bonds has been reduced to Rs 19,292.77 crore from Rs 25,239.4 crore pegged in the budget estimate. Under this mechanism, the government issues recapitalisation bonds to a public sector bank which needs capital. The said bank subscribes to the paper against which the government receives the money. Now, the money received goes as equity capital of the bank. So the government doesn't have to pay anything from its pocket. However, the money invested by banks in recapitalisation bonds is classified as an investment which earns them an interest. In all, the government has issued about Rs 2.5 lakh crore recapitalisation in the last three financial years. In the first year, the government issued Rs 80,000 crore recapitalisation bonds, followed by Rs 1.06 lakh crore in 2018-19. During the last financial year, the capital infusion through bonds was Rs 65,443 crore. Banks will conduct special clearing operations for the annual closure of government accounts on March 31, which is the last day of the current fiscal year, the RBI has said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-97
29-03-2021||Business||Cairn Energy to bring lawsuits to pierce corporate veil ||The UK’s Cairn Energy Plc plans to bring lawsuits in the US and other countries to pierce the corporate veil between the Indian government and its owned companies such as in oil and gas, shipping, airline and banking sectors, to seize their overseas assets to recover $1.2 billion ordered by an international arbitration tribunal. The firm has moved courts in the US, UK, Canada, France, Singapore, the Netherlands and three other countries to register the December 2020 arbitration tribunal ruling that overturned the Indian government’s Rs 10,247-crore demand in back taxes and ordered New Delhi to return $1.2 billion in value of shares it had sold, dividends seized and tax refunds withheld to recover the tax demand. With the government so far refusing to honour the arbitration award and instead choosing to challenge it, Cairn is looking to enforce it by seizing overseas Indian assets, Dennis Hranitzky, head of the sovereign litigation practice at Quinn Emanuel Urquhart & Sullivan, a law firm representing the company, said. These assets can potentially be non-diplomatic ones and those owned by entities or companies controlled by the Indian government in those nine countries. “Cairn plans to bring lawsuits in the coming weeks to pierce the corporate veil to establish that (certain) state-owned entities are India’s alter ego under Bancec” for enforcing the arbitration award, he said. The Bancec guidelines deal with determining when a judgment against a foreign state is enforceable against its agencies. The lawsuit will be similar to the one brought by Crystallex International Corp to attach property of Petroleos de Venezuela, S.A (PDVSA), the state-owned oil company of Venezuela, in Delaware a couple of years back after the Latin American country failed to pay the firm $1.2 billion that an arbitration tribunal had ordered to pay in lieu of the 2011 seizing gold deposits held and developed by the firm. “Indian assets across several jurisdictions have been identified that Cairn will be seeking to seize to enforce the award,” he said, refusing to name the assets the firm may be looking to attach to recover the $1.2-billion-plus interest and cost that the arbitration tribunal had ordered. “Until we have commenced proceedings to seize the assets, this information is proprietary,” he said. Cairn is pulling out all stops to recover the damages award, including hiring a team of asset recovery experts. Sources said the assets that can be attached could range from airplanes to ships, to oil and gas cargoes and bank accounts of state-owned entities. “Cairn is moving forward with its enforcement plans with all deliberate speed. Under the laws of some countries, these proceedings can begin right away, whereas in others we will have to wait until after the award is recognised,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-97
