30-03-2021||Business||Sensex rallies 1,128 points to finish above 50,000 ||Extending its gains to the second consecutive session, equity benchmark Sensex rallied 1,128 points on Tuesday, tracking gains in index majors HDFC twins, Infosys and Reliance Industries amid a positive trend in global markets. The 30-share BSE index ended 1,128.08 points or 2.30 per cent higher at 50,136.58, and the broader NSE Nifty surged 337.80 points or 2.33 per cent to 14,845.10. HCL Tech was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising over 4 per cent, followed by HDFC Bank, Infosys, NTPC, Nestle India, TCS and HUL. On the other hand, M&M, Bharti Airtel and Axis Bank were the laggards. Except for today's depreciation, the INR has remained quite steady even though the dollar index rose. Also when the US 10-year bond yields has spiked sharply India's 10-year bond yield has remained quite stable. These two factors could act in India's favour and help Indian equities outperform its peers in the emerging markets, said Rusmik Oza, Executive Vice President, Head of Fundamental Research at Kotak Securities. Recent correction could be due to rising COVID-19 cases and year-end phenomenon wherein retail and HNI investors would have avoided taking any fresh positions, he said, adding that the start of new settlement for FY22 and forthcoming Q4 earnings seasons could be the reasons for fresh investor interest in stocks. US markets, especially the Dow Jones and S&P 500 are showing firm uptrend due to the ongoing stimulus and faster vaccination drive which could also be one of the reasons for our markets to inch upwards, Oza noted. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul ended on a positive note. Stock exchanges in Europe were also trading with significant gains in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.49 per cent lower at USD 64.60 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-95
30-03-2021||Business||HDFC Bank acknowledges net banking glitches, says restoring services top priority||The country's largest private sector lender HDFC Bank on Tuesday said it is taking steps to resolve glitches in its digital banking platform and restore services on priority. "Some customers are facing intermittent issues accessing our NetBanking/MobileBanking App. We are looking into it on priority for resolution. We apologize for the inconvenience and request you to try again after sometime. Thank you," HDFC Bank said in a tweet. This is not for the first time that the customers of the bank have faced service outage. In fact, the bank has been penalised by the Reserve bank of India (RBI) for two major outages in the past. In December, the RBI temporarily barred HDFC Bank from launching new digital banking initiatives and issuing new credit cards after taking a serious view of service outages at the lender over the last two years. "RBI has issued an order dated December 2, 2020, to HDFC Bank Ltd with regard to certain incidents of outages in the internet banking/ mobile banking/ payment utilities of the bank over the past two years, including the recent outages in the bank's internet banking and payment system on November 21, 2020, due to a power failure in the primary data centre, HDFC Bank had said in a regulatory filing. The bank has been penalised for two major outages, one in November 2018 and the other in December 2019. Taking a stern view of the repeated outages, RBI Governor Shaktikanta Das had said in December the regulator had some concerns about certain deficiencies and it was necessary that HDFC Bank strengthens its IT system before expanding further. ... we cannot have thousands and lakhs of customers who are using digital banking to be in any kind of difficulty for hours together and especially when we are ourselves giving so much emphasis on digital banking. Public confidence in digital banking has to be maintained," Das had said. HDFC Bank, the largest lender by assets in the private sector, has been classified as a systemically important entity by the RBI in the past. It is also the largest issuer of credit cards and has a significant share in the payment processing segment. The bank is the largest issuer of credit cards and had 1.49 crore customers as of September 2020 while on the debit cards front, it had 3.38 crore customers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-95
30-03-2021||Business||Sensex rallies over 500 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex rallied over 500 points in early trade on Tuesday, tracking gains in index majors HDFC twins, HUL and ICICI Bank amid largely positive cues from the Asian peers. The 30-share BSE index was trading 510.31 points or 1.04 per cent higher at 49,518.81, and the broader NSE Nifty surged 162.70 points or 1.12 per cent to 14,670. HUL was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising over 3 per cent, followed by Titan, NTPC, ONGC, Dr Reddy's, Nestle India, PowerGrid, HDFC twins and ICICI Bank. On the other hand, M&M was the sole laggard. Domestic financial markets were closed on Monday for Holi. In the previous session on Friday, the Sensex surged 568.38 points or 1.17 per cent to finish at 49,008.50, and Nifty climbed 182.40 points or 1.27 per cent to 14,507.30. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 50.13 crore on Friday, as per exchange data. Market opened on a positive note on Tuesday tracking positive cues from Asian markets, traders said. "Sharp decline in FII selling coupled with large buying by domestic institutional investors (DIIs) can support the market and even take it higher. "But there are many concerns like surge in COVID-19 cases, particularly in economically crucial Maharashtra, appreciation in US 10-year bond yield above 1.7 per cent and the dollar index moving up to 92.8 levels, said V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Seoul were trading on a positive note in mid-session deals, while Tokyo was in the red. Stock exchanges on Wall Street ended with losses in overnight trade amid worries over the impact of a default by a US-based hedge fund on margin calls last week. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.18 per cent higher at USD 65.04 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-95
30-03-2021||Business||Visa Inc to allow use of cryptocurrency USD Coin to settle transactions||Visa Inc said on Monday it will allow the use of the cryptocurrency USD Coin to settle transactions on its payment network, the latest sign of growing acceptance of digital currencies by the mainstream financial industry. Visa has launched the pilot programme with payment and crypto platform Crypto.com and plans to offer the option to more partners later this year, it said. The USD Coin (USDC) is a stablecoin cryptocurrency whose value is pegged directly to the dollar. Visa’s move comes as major finance firms, including BNY Mellon, BlackRock Inc and Mastercard Inc, have embraced some digital coins, sparking predictions that cryptocurrencies will become a regular part of investment portfolios. Tesla Inc boss Elon Musk said last week that customers can buy its electric vehicles with bitcoin, marking a significant step forward for the cryptocurrency’s use in commerce. “We see increasing demand from consumers across the world to be able to access, hold and use digital currencies and we’re seeing demand from our clients to be able to build products that provide that access for consumers,” Cuy Sheffield, head of crypto at Visa, said. Traditionally, if a customer chooses to use a Crypto.com Visa card to pay for a coffee, the digital currency held in a cryptocurrency wallet needs to be converted into traditional money. The cryptocurrency wallet will deposit traditional fiat currency in a bank account, to be wired to Visa at the end of the day to settle any transactions, adding cost and complexity for businesses. Visa’s latest step, which will use the ethereum blockchain, strips out the need to convert digital coin into traditional money in order for the transaction to be settled.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-95
30-03-2021||Business||Ascendas India Trust to acquire 1.65 million sq ft area at Bangalore IT park||Ascendas India Trust (a-iTrust) will acquire 1.65 million sq ft area at an IT park in Bangalore for an estimated deal value of Rs 1,441 crore, according to a statement. Ascendas Property Fund Trustee Pte Ltd, the trustee-manager of a-iTrust, has entered into a forward purchase agreement with Gardencity Realty Pvt Ltd to acquire two buildings in an IT Park with a total net leasable area of up to 1.65 million sq ft located at Hebbal, Bangalore. a-iTrust will provide funding for the development of the project as part of the forward purchase arrangement, the company said in a statement. It will subsequently acquire a net leasable area of up to 1.65 million sq ft in two buildings spread across two land parcels. Initially, and during the construction period, a-iTrust’s investment in the construction of the project will be through debt. “The proposed acquisition will provide an opportunity to establish our presence in Hebbal, one of Bangalore’s upcoming IT/ITeS micro-markets, which is witnessing stable demand and rent,” said Sanjeev Dasgupta, chief executive officer of the trustee-manager.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-96
30-03-2021||Business||Nomura reels on US fund’s bad bets||Credit Suisse and Nomura Holdings warned this morning that they faced huge losses from a multibillion-dollar fire sale of stocks held by just one investment firm, Archegos Capital Management. It’s the latest sign of the fragility of the global markets, and could spur more attention from regulators on the murky world of swaps and investor borrowing. Archegos manages the personal fortune of former hedge fund mogul Bill Hwang, who won Wall Street'’s business despite having pleaded guilty to insider trading years ago. It amassed huge positions in media giants such as ViacomCBS and in several Chinese tech companies — largely with borrowed money. The Archegos strategy included using swaps, contracts that gave Hwang financial exposure to companies’ shares while hiding both his identity and how big his positions really were. It is also becoming increasingly apparent that several Wall Street banks lent Archegos money without knowing that others were doing the same thing for the same trades. Trouble for Hwang and his banks arose when the prices of those stocks started to fall. That prompted some of his lenders to demand cash to cover his bets. When they began to question his ability to do so, some of them, including Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley, seized some of his holdings and kicked off the sale $20 billion worth in huge block trades. That forced selling led to even bigger drops in the prices of those stocks, starting a vicious circle. Credit Suisse and Nomura acknowledged being hit especially hard. Credit Suisse told investors that a “US-based hedge fund” had defaulted on its margin calls, which could lead to losses that were “highly significant and material to our first-quarter results”. Nomura said that one of its US arms could suffer “a significant loss” because of the forced sales. Shares in Credit Suisse were down 14 per cent this morning; those in Nomura were down 16 per cent. Goldman, on the other hand, has told investors that its potential losses are “immaterial”, having covered its exposure. Some bankers told The Financial Times that Archegos’s downfall highlighted the risk of one firm taking on so much leverage from multiple banks. It also raises fresh questions about whether the mania for meme stocks, largely attributed to day traders, was actually fueled by hedge funds jumping into the trading. New York Times News Service||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-96
30-03-2021||Business||Dr Reddy’s Labs expects Russian Covid vaccine to get approval from Indian regulator||Dr Reddy’s Laboratories expects Russian coronavirus vaccine Sputnik V to get approval from the Indian regulator in the next few weeks. “We expect to get the approval in the next few weeks. It is a two-dose vaccine. You take the first dose on Day zero and the second one on day 21. The peak immunity develops somewhere between Day 28 and Day 42. So, it is a two-dose vaccine and we expect it to be available in the next few weeks,” a PTI report quoting Deepak Sapra, CEO, APIs and services at Dr Reddy’s, said. Sapra disclosed this while speaking at a webinar. He was asked how soon Sputnik would become available and how many doses would be required. Dr Reddy’s has joined hands with the Russia Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) to bring the Sputnik V vaccine to India and other countries. Observing that the trials of the vaccine have been conducted in Russia, India, the UAE and others, Sapra said the vaccine demonstrated an efficacy of 91.6 per cent as published in reputed journal Lancet. The data on trials is at present with the Indian regulator and the company expects to get the green signal in the next few weeks, he added. “We also conducted trials in India and evaluated the vaccine on the Indian population for both safety as well as for immunogenicity,” he said. The webinar on “India’s vaccination journey and the second wave of Covid-19” was conducted by the All India Professional Congress (AIPC), Telangana. During the third quarter ended December 31, 2020, Dr Reddy’s had posted a consolidated net profit of Rs 27.9 crore compared with a net loss of Rs 538.4 crore during the same period of the previous fiscal. The company’s total revenue from operations stood at Rs 4,941.9 crore for the quarter under review, up 12.38 per cent. During the third quarter ended December 31, 2019, the total revenue from operations was at Rs 4,397.1 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-96
30-03-2021||Business||HPCL to buy off Shapoorji from joint venture||Cash-strapped Shapoorji Pallonji Group is selling its stake in SP Ports Private Ltd (SPPPL) to joint venture partner HPCL for an undisclosed sum. It had entered into a joint venture with the state-owned refiner to set up a 5 million tonnes per annum LNG re-gasification terminal, which is being set up at Chhara in Gujarat. SP Ports Private Ltd is a unit of Mumbai-based Shapoorji Pallonji Group, with JV HPCL Shapoorji Energy Private Ltd setting up the LNG re-gasification terminal. The venture is building the terminal at a cost of around Rs 5,411 crore. The sum received from HPCL would help the SP Group lower its debt. However, reports said banks have referred the Rs 10,900-crore debt restructuring of SP Group to the KV Kamath Committee for final approval, after the banking regulator accepted the committee report which allows firms to recast their debt for two years. The group is reportedly looking to sell partial or full stakes in group firms such as Eureka Forbes, Afcons Infrastructure and Sterling & Wilson Solar and the proceeds will be used to pare some of its debt. The group has a total debt of over Rs 22,000 crore. After the Supreme Court handed down its verdict last week in the battle between the Tatas and the Cyrus Mistry camp, the banks have turned very cautious and are unwilling to increase their exposure to the group. The apex court ruling on March 26 was a big win for Tata Sons in its four-year-long dispute with the Mistry family, its single largest stakeholder. The top court, however, refused to ascertain a fair value to the Mistry family’s 18.3 per cent holding in Tata Sons. According to some reports, the lenders would like the SP group to raise funds through asset sale before the debt revamp is agreed upon. The other option is to pledge the shares held by the SP group in Tata Sons but that cannot be done now because of the court order. HPCL in a regulatory filing said it has “has entered into a share purchase agreement (SPA) dated March 27, 2021 for acquisition of 50 per cent of the paid-up equity share capital of the Target Entity from SP Ports Private Limited”. The company stated that the acquisition is likely to be concluded by March 31, 2021, and does not require regulatory approval. HPCL Shapoorji Energy Pvt Ltd (HSEPL) is an associate unlisted company of HPCL and a 50:50 JV with SP Ports, a unit of Shapoorji Pallonji Group. HSEPL is in the course of setting up and developing the re-gasification terminal at Chhara, Gujarat with capacity of 5 million tonnes per annum.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-96
30-03-2021||Business||Tatas, Mittals and Jindals in the fray to acquire Neelachal Ispat Nigam Ltd||The Tatas, Mittals and the Jindals are in the fray to acquire public sector Neelachal Ispat Nigam Ltd (NINL) via a centrally sponsored divestment programme. Monday was the cut off to submit an expression of interest (EoI) for the Odisha-based steel plant. All the major Indian steel players, including Vedanta, are believed to have submitted EOIs for the 1.1 million tonne asset. Tata Steel put in the EoI through subsidiary Tata Steel Long Products Ltd, sources said. JSW Steel Ltd, which completed the acquisition of Bhushan Power & Steel Ltd on Friday, and AM/NS India — the joint venture between ArcelorMittal and Nippon Steel — also submitted EoIs. According to the preliminary information memorandum circulated by the department of investment and public asset management, the successful bidder will get full ownership of the company, apart from the mining rights and leasehold land spread over 2,500 acres. The secretary, Dipam, tweeted on Monday saying “multiple expressions of interest were received for privatisation of NINL. The transaction moves ahead to the second phase, on schedule”. The asset Central PSU Minerals and Metals Trading Corporation (MMTC) is the largest shareholder of NINL having a 49.78 per cent share, apart from NMDC, which holds 10.10 per cent. Two Odisha government entities, Odisha Mining Corporation (OMC) and Industrial Promotion and Investment Corporation of Odisha Ltd (IPICOL), hold 20.47 per cent and 12 per cent, respectively. The remaining 7.65 per cent is owned by an unlisted entity. Set up in 1982 to promote industrialisation in the state of Odisha, the company has been underperforming for many years. Nine months into 2020, it recorded net sales of Rs 801.18 crore and loss of Rs 826.73 crore. The net worth of NINL stands at negative Rs 1,332.23 crore. The company has Rs 1,425 crore of working capital loan/borrowing from the related party and other current liabilities in trade credit advance of Rs 1,796 crore. However, the biggest asset of NINL, which makes pig iron and long products , appears to be the land in Kalinganagar, apart from a captive iron ore mine. The players All three top private sector players stand to gain from NINL’s assets. Tata Steel has a strong presence in Odisha where it operates a 3mt plant at Kalinganagar. It is being scaled up by another 5mt. The company has expressed a desire to bid for NINL because of the strategic fit to the existing unit, apart from increasing exposure to the long products. For JSW Steel, NINL could help expand operations significantly, soon after setting foot in Odisha with 2.5MT BPSL. The company has also acquired four iron ore mines in Odisha last year through an auction. The company is also interested in setting up a greenfield plant near Paradip even as land acquisition could be tricky. AM/NS India also signed a fresh memorandum of understanding last month to set up a new plant in Odisha. It also won rights to one iron ore mine in auction last year. The company also operates a large pellet plant at Paradip. NINL could allow the company to significantly expand presence in the east and in the Indian market. Benefits are no less for ESL Steel Ltd which may allow Vedanta to be a significant steel player from non-ferrous giant. However, the successful bidder has to find a way to pacify the employees of NINL who have filed court cases to oppose the selloff. They want NINL to be taken over by other PSUs like SAIL or RINL.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-96
30-03-2021||Business||GE Capital faces heat from the taxman||After Vodafone Plc and Cairn Energy, another foreign investor finds itself in a stew with the taxman. The Mauritius-based subsidiary of GE Capital is facing the heat from the tax authorities over a capital gains tax demand from the sale of its 40 per cent stake in SBI Cards and Payments Services that dates back to December 2017. The resultant tax dispute, which came up recently before the Delhi high court, has once again placed that old chestnut in the fire: can the income-tax department deny benefits guaranteed under the Indo-Mauritius double tax avoidance agreement to a foreign investor routing funds through the island nation? The tax department believes it can — and has tried to do precisely that while turning down a tax refund claim filed by GE Capital Mauritius Overseas for approximately Rs 249.39 crore, including interest. At the heart of the dispute is the taxman’s argument that the Mauritius entity “is a mere puppet” of its London-based parent, GE Capital International Holdings Limited UK. GE Capital Mauritius has no assets in India and has never filed a tax return in India. The only time it did so was in October 2018 when it filed a return for the assessment year 2018-19 to claim a refund of Rs 226.72 crore that had been deducted at source. The plea was turned down by the tax authorities on the ground that GE Capital International Holdings Limited had floated the Mauritius subsidiary with the sole purpose of making investments in India and avoiding tax on any capital gains that might arise when it sells its stake.. The argument flies in the face of the judgments handed down by the Supreme Court in the so-called Azadi Bachao Andolan case and the Vodafone verdict where it was held that tax planning is a legitimate device as long as the artifice falls within the four corners of the law. In the Azadi Andolan case, the Supreme Court had held that as long as a Mauritius entity could produce a tax residency certificate from the island nation, it could enjoy the tax benefits under the double taxation avoidance pact. In the Vodafone case, the Supreme Court had ruled that the exercise of refund must be undertaken promptly, while keeping in mind the time limit for sending an intimation of a tax demand under section 142 (1) (d) of the Income Tax Act, which is before the expiry of one year from the end of the financial year in which the tax return was filed. The high court determined that the tax authorities had adhered to the time limit by serving the intimation in November 2019. It served another notice under section 143(2) of the Act which basically deals with any discrepancies relating to income or loss reporting . But the problem arose over a notice issued under section 241 A of the Act — a clause inserted from April 1, 2017 —which empowers the assessing officer to withhold a tax refund if he feels that such a grant may hurt the interests of the revenue department. But he must record his reasons and seek approval from the principal commissioner or the commissioner and only then “withhold the refund up to the date on which the assessment is made”. This is where the tax authorities appear to have messed up. The court said the order under this section ought to have been served before March 31, 2020. But it was served only on July 15, 2020. The tax department has claimed there are extenuating circumstances for the delay: after the lockdown last year, an ordinance was passed extending all time limits first till June 30, then till December 31 and finally till March 31 this year. It also argued that the petitioner had never filed a tax return till the assessment year 2018-19 and, therefore, the department had no idea of the affairs of the petitioner. The tax department also said a scrutiny of the documents showed that the Mauritius entity had spent $40 million of the stake sale proceeds and had passed on $305 million to its UK parent. In its ruling issued last Friday, the Delhi high court has permitted the taxman to withhold the refund till the assessment is completed. The court has ruled that GE Capital’s attempt to challenge the IT order under section 241A could not be countenanced and dismissed its case but said its views ought not to prejudice the final outcome of the assessment. If it had admitted the petition, it said, the court would be flooded with tax appeals. However, Justices Rajiv Sahai Endlaw and Asha Menon made one observation that is interesting. They said that the senior counsel for GE Capital had made a strong argument when suggesting that the actions of the tax department flew in the face of the Azadi Bachao Andolan and Vodafone cases. “It is (an ) attractive (argument) and tempts us to examine further and if indeed find so, nip the proceedings in the bud... However, what is beyond our jurisdiction is beyond our jurisdiction and howsoever well intended the said thought may be, cannot be allowed to have a free run”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-96
