07-06-2021||India||Haryana police release 2 farmers; meeting underway for third protester||The Haryana police on Monday released two farmers, arrested over a spat with Jannayak Janta Party (JJP) legislator Devendra S Babli earlier this month, after a standoff of more than 24 hours with agitating agriculturists. After the release, farmers who were staging a sit-in outside the Tohana police station in the Fatehabad district, withdrew. "We have decided to no longer gherao the Tohana police station. One more person is still in jail and a meeting is underway with the police administration to release him," Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait said, according to news agency ANI.Ravi Azad and Vikas Sisar were arrested on June 1 following their demonstration against JJP leader Devendra S Babli. During the protest, the farmers gheraoed Babli and shouted slogans against him and showed him black flags. Later, the member of the legislative assembly (MLA) filed a first information report (FIR) alleging that some of the protesters resorted to unruly behaviour and vandalised his car.After this, the farmers also demanded that Babli should be booked for allegedly using abusive language against the farmers and threatening them during the spat.On Saturday, the JJP leader released a video and apologised for his comments. “I forgive those involved in the June 1 incident and apologise for my comments at the time,” he said. Babli also said that he would withdraw the cases filed against Azad and Sisar.The farmers' protest against the three contentious central farm laws completed six months in May as thousands of agriculturists continue to sit at the Delhi borders demanding the Centre to repeal the legislation. Despite several rounds of talks between the Centre and the farmer leaders last year, the deadlock still remains.They are protesting against the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.Meanwhile, Tikait is scheduled to meet West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on June 9 to discuss the agitation. Mamata Banerjee has been very vocal against the farm laws and gave her support to farmers' protest. Several TMC lawmakers also visited the Delhi borders where farmers have been protesting since November last year.During the recently-held Bengal assembly elections, Tikait visited the state and campaigned for Banerjee's Trinamool Congress (TMC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/haryana-police-release-2-farmers-meeting-underway-for-third-protester-101623045976086.html
07-06-2021||Kolkata||Rakesh Tikait to meet Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday to talk over farmers' protest||Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait is slated to meet West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on June 9 (Wednesday) in Kolkata, news agency ANI reported, citing sources privy to the matter. Tikait will discuss the strategy with Mamata Banerjee to further intensify the ongoing farmers' protest against the new central farm laws, the sources said."Rakesh Tikait will meet chief minister Mamata Banerjee on June 9. He will congratulate her on the massive electoral victory. They will discuss the farmers' protest," sources told ANI.Notably, Tikait had visited West Bengal before the state assembly elections and campaigned for Trinamool Congress (TMC).West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee has been very much vocal against the new farm laws and gave her support to farmers' protests. Several TMC MPs had visited the Delhi borders where farmers have been protesting since November last year.Since the Covid-19 situation is improving, the farmer leaders are planning to intensify the protest.Meanwhile, a large number of farmers led by farmer leaders Rakesh Tikait, Gurnam Singh Chaduni, and United Kisan Morcha leader Yogendra Yadav have been staging a dharna in front of Tohana Sadar police station in Fatehabad district of Haryana since Saturday night demanding the release of the arrested farmers.Farmers protesting against the Centre's farm laws have been protesting for the last six months. Many have camped at the borders of the national capital. Despite several rounds of talks between the Centre and the farmer leaders last year, the deadlock remains.Farmers have been protesting on the different borders of the national capital since November 26 against the three newly enacted farm laws - Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and farm Services Act 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/rakesh-tikait-to-meet-mamata-banerjee-on-wednesday-to-talk-over-farmers-protest-101623041798928.html
