07-08-2020||Opinion||A clash of two visions: Gandhi’s Hinduism, Jinnah’s Islam||What happened when an unstoppable force met with an immovable object? Gandhi’s epic, but ultimately futile, confrontation with Jinnah — the subject matter of M.J. Akbar’s unexceptional enquiry — is perhaps best expressed in such metaphorical terms. The outcome, unfortunately, was the sundering of the subcontinent into two distinct political entities. Akbar chooses to explore the dynamics of the Gandhi-Jinnah relationship through the ebb and flow of a choppy political tide. To be fair to the author, a holistic assessment of their engagement is impossible without locating it in its context. But Akbar’s problem is one of control — the lack of it rather — over scale. The attention on the rivalry between the principal protagonists is inevitably diluted as the narrative begins to accommodate other players in the saga. This is not to suggest that Akbar’s broader analysis lacks depth. The differences between Viceroy Wavell and Premier Churchill on the Bengal famine or, later, the barely-concealed antagonism between Mountbatten and Cripps are engrossing. But Gandhi and Jinnah get lost in the crowd on such and other occasions. The fleshing out of the two adversaries is uneven too. Gandhi, understandably, dominates, with Akbar tracing his political journey ably, even though the trajectory of this journey would be familiar to the serious scholar. One inference about the Mahatma, however, does strike a chord. Could the horror of Partition have been avoided had Gandhi, as Akbar suggests pointedly, not “sought to reach Indian Muslims through Jinnah...?” The Jinnah that Akbar portrays is consistent with the prevailing stereotype: ambitious, unbending, tactical and myopic. But what is expected from such an analysis are answers to enduring riddles. Could egotism alone explain the shocking transformation of Jinnah the Constitutionalist? Akbar ticks off Jinnah’s singular speech in the Pakistan Constituent Assembly, calling to bury division among communities, as a subversion of his earlier inflammatory prejudice. Could it be that Jinnah’s obduracy was as much the result of his political aspirations, imperial chicanery as the Congress’s — Gandhi’s? — failure to take advantage of his limitations? Punjab’s Unionist Party, a coalition of Muslims, Hindus and Sikhs, provided the Congress with a formidable alternative to Jinnah’s sectarian model. Yet, Punjab — and Bengal — were bled dry by Partition. Jawaharlal Nehru — in a sign of the times — comes out as poorly as Jinnah in this interpretation of the tumultuous events with Akbar blaming Nehru for lighting the fire that singed the Cabinet Mission Plan. The shadow of the present on the past seems to be lengthening.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-168
07-08-2020||Opinion||Make a change: Urgency of police reforms||Sir — The article, “Poisoned stick” (July 28), by Ruchir Joshi, emphasizing the urgency of police reforms in India and across the world, is thought-provoking. Joshi’s acquaintance is right to underline the fact that there is need for the police force to exist but, at the same time, it is necessary to make efforts to sensitize the forces. It is true that the level of policing has reached an abysmally low point under the current regime in India. But it is the people in power who inculcate and abet the unethical policies. In India, beating a confession out of an accused by the police who consider themselves above the law has become a normal practice because of the impunity that they enjoy. Reports suggest that the police often pass off custodial deaths on account of torture as suicides or attribute them to co-morbidities. The officers higher up in the hierarchy must also have a role in defending the errant policemen. Data reveal that between 2001 and 2018 there were around 1,727 recorded deaths in police custody, but only 26 policemen were convicted of custodial deaths. The former home minister, Indrajit Gupta, had taken up the cause of police reform sincerely and made attempts for the country to break out of the colonial system of policing. In 2006, the Supreme Court, too, directed state governments to set up a security commission to insulate the police from extraneous pressure, a police establishment board to provide autonomy to the police in matters relating to personnel, and a complaints authority to ensure a higher level of accountability by the police. But even today the states seem to be dragging their feet. Unless the ruling dispensation in each state takes the matter seriously, police reform will remain a distant dream in India.Jahar Saha,Calcutta Sir — Reform in the police force has been long due in India. It is now time to bring about a change in the behavioural and ethical code by which the force conducts itself. But it should also be noted that the misbehaviour of a few can give the whole force a bad name. As such, even the policemen who are dutiful and honest end up being resented by the common people. While a nexus between the police and political leaders cannot be condoned, perhaps there is need for a deeper look at the circumstances that lead to such alliances. Not every policeman is part of such nexus for profit: one can also be coerced into it out of fear of losing the job on account of defiance. Dedication to one’s vocation and its true purpose — this applies to all working citizens, and particularly to ones in uniform — is of utmost importance.Alok Ganguly,Kalyani Sir — The recent murder of George Floyd in the United States of America and the heinous death of a father and son in Tamil Nadu in police custody has brought police brutality into the limelight. There is no denying that policing while abiding by the rules is difficult, but this is no excuse for resorting to torture. It is also worrying when extra-judicial killings are lauded by the common people. They should remember that one is innocent until proven guilty, and any deviance is not acceptable. Otherwise, what is the point of having any law at all? Debapriya Mondal,Hooghly Time to go Sir — It was disappointing to learn that the iconic Spanish goalkeeper, Iker Casillas, has hung up his boots (“Casillas calls time”, Aug 5). Nicknamed ‘Saint Iker’ for his spectacular saves, Casillas has been one of the greatest goalkeepers of all time. Casillas has had a memorable two decades. As captain of the national team, he led Spain to victory at the UEFA Euro 2008. Spain also won its first World Cup in 2010 under the captaincy of Casillas, where he held a joint-record of five clean sheets, winning the Golden Glove award. That win made Spain overcome the tag of a jinxed football superpower and the team became a force to reckon with. ‘Tiki-taka’ footballing, too, came to the fore. Casillas has won many accolades in his career — his records would have been unparalleled if only he had not narrowly lost the International Federation of Football History and Statistics’s World’s Best Goalkeeper of the 1st Decade of the 21st Century award to Gianluigi Buffon. Nonetheless, Casillas has a way of striking chords at a personal level. He was one of the reasons why many football lovers, myself included, followed Real Madrid. During his term there, he defined a generation of world-class goalkeepers. It is comforting to know that Casillas will reportedly act as advisor to the club’s president in the next chapter of his career.Dyutiman Bhattacharya,Calcutta Sir — The news that one of the best goalkeepers of present time, Iker Casillas, has announced his retirement from professional sport was disheartening. Casillas — both Real Madrid and the Spanish national team must be grateful to him — has left his mark in history as the skipper who lifted his country’s maiden World Cup in 2010 as well as two consecutive European Championships in 2008 and 2012. Casillas and his unmatched talent will undoubtedly be missed not only by thousands of his fans but also by all football lovers across the world.Sourish Misra,Calcutta Better safe than sorry Sir — While the Dutch government has decided against advising citizens to wear face masks in crowded areas — the authorities believe that research has not proven the use of face masks to be effective in curbing the spread of Covid-19 infection — the city of Amsterdam has gone against the national policy and made them mandatory. Following the relaxation of lockdown rules in July, the Netherlands has seen a spike in coronavirus cases. Given that leading scientists are yet to fully understand the nature of the virus and come out with a cure, all possible preventive measures should be taken in view of the safety of the people.Asmita Sen,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-168
07-08-2020||Opinion||Clear lens: Portraying Indian Army on screen||Some terrains, it would seem, require more cautious treading than others. This appears to be one of the prominent implications of the letter sent recently by the Union defence ministry to the Central Board of Film Certification. The missive — it was despatched in response to a web series episode that allegedly portrayed the army in a ‘distorted’ manner — requested the CBFC to ask producers of movies and web series to seek permission from the said ministry before airing visual content depicting the Indian army or military personnel. There is a degree of merit in the concern that has been expressed — after all, the sensitive nature of the army as an institution as well as its strategic importance in safeguarding the interests and sovereignty of the nation cannot be ignored. As such, there might be a case to be made for regulating depictions of the history of the military for, say, factual accuracy. Indeed, in its bid to valorize the army, popular visual content on the armed forces in India — mainstream cinema is an example — has often demonstrated a penchant to undermine the rigour and discipline that lives in the military are subjected to. A degree of institutional supervision might, perhaps, help make portrayals of army life more realistic. This acknowledgement must be accompanied by a caveat. The licence of supervision must not be used to censor and, consequently, stifle creativity. This is especially pertinent at a time when spaces for dialogue, free speech and dissent are rapidly shrinking in India. There is a case for implementing a system of checks and balances as well. If film-makers are henceforth to obtain no-objection certificates from the defence ministry before airing visual content on the army, measures must also be taken to make the monitoring process transparent. For instance, the ministry should offer justifiable reasons for preventing objective portrayals of, say, reversals that the army may have suffered, notwithstanding its long and glorious record of service. This would ensure that a regulatory mechanism would not be used to limit public knowledge of the army. The armed forces are the nation’s pride precisely because, unlike in totalitarian polities, they have remained accountable to the people of India. This element of accountability must be emphasized since there are mounting fears — even among senior and retired officers — that the army is being used to score political points by the powers that be.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-168
07-08-2020||Opinion||Audacious: Equating temple with freedom struggle||Odious comparisons are par for the course in politics. But some politicians seem more vulnerable to this contagion than others. The Indian prime minister, unfortunately, belongs to the extremely vulnerable category. In his speech during the bhoomi pujan in Ayodhya, Narendra Modi compared — audaciously — the movement to build the Ram temple with that of India’s heroic struggle against the yoke of colonialism. Those with a modicum of knowledge of history — not the version of history that the Bharatiya Janata Party would like to impose on the nation — would take umbrage at Mr Modi’s decision to match the two distinct kinds of mobilization. India’s freedom struggle is a testament to the spirit of inclusion. A nation fragmented on the lines of faith, caste and ethnicity had risen together as one under the leadership of the Mahatma — India’s original unifier — to challenge and then overthrow a mighty empire. A notable blip in this glorious chapter of unity among diverse communities was the Partition, which tore India apart along sectarian lines. These fault lines are visible on the horizon of New India. There is no doubt that the Ram Janmabhoomi movement was a popular phenomenon. But could it envelop every Indian, including all Hindus, in its embrace? A substantial number of Indians have distanced themselves from the movement on account of the toxic rhetoric of Hindutva. While India’s freedom movement served as a glue to keep a polity together, the political campaign that the BJP unleashed in the name of Ram led to division and conflict, elements that are anathema to M.K. Gandhi’s vision of Ram rajya. It is pertinent to note that Mr Modi stated that the temple construction signified freedom from slavery. It would be interesting to speculate on the implications of this statement. It has been argued, not without reason, that the demolition of the mosque in an orchestrated campaign — the Supreme Court did take note of this desecration in its verdict on the matter — signified the dismantling of the edifice of constitutionalism. Is the ‘slavery’ then symbolic of the collective commitment to the values of pluralism and secularism enshrined in the Constitution? More ominously, is the ‘freedom’ that Mr Modi mentioned suggestive of a clean break with constitutional imperatives? The answer is not clear yet; but it would be in the coming days. What is clear, however, is that Gandhi’s dream of Ram rajya and the one that Mr Modi is working to realize are like the metaphorical chalk and cheese.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-168
07-08-2020||Opinion||Sharks on Land: Termination of CRDA ||The bill to repeal the Andhra Pradesh Capital Region Development Authority Act, 2014 was passed in June. With it, the capital city development project on 53,000 acres of land was terminated in the fifth year of operation. Another bill passed earlier enabled the replacement of the Amaravati Metropolitan Region and Urban Development Authority. The present government has also decided to offer additional land compensation to farmers whose land had been pooled under the land-pooling scheme. Most developmental projects require land. The government finds it easier to acquire land from the people. The State has the inherent power of eminent domain after just and fair compensation. Under the new land acquisition Act (LARR), the compensation is fair but higher. This often makes projects expensive. The CRDA found a way around this expensive and time-consuming land acquisition process via the LPS, which bypassed the protections provided to landowners under the LARR Act.By force In April 2017, the CRDA proposed to acquire 20,000 acres of farmland under the provisions of LARR Act from ‘unruly’ landowners. The farmers who refused to give up their land under LPS were served with acquisition notices under the LARR Act. The LARR Act mandates that a social impact assessment must be conducted to decide on compensation and other aspects of rehabilitation of the people whose lands would be acquired. Reports from the region suggested that these procedures were flouted. The LARR Act makes acquisition conditional upon the consent of landowners in certain cases, curtails the powers of the collector, provides for higher compensation, appellate mechanism and compulsory rehabilitation and resettlement mechanism. It also states that a government cannot acquire more than 1 per cent of farmland in a five-year period. Several of these provisions were violated and there are allegations that the Telugu Desam Party government and businessmen coerced farmers to take possession of their land. Further, land-pooling only works if the agency uses some of the pooled land for infrastructure development in the future while the rights to new parcels in the pooled land are transferred back to the original landowners in some proportion with effective benefits. As per the LPS, farmers were offered 19-30 per cent pooled land, some compensation and additional future benefits. However, after the Andhra Pradesh general election in May 2019, the new government decided not to go ahead with the project and shifted the proposed capital to Vizag. The shift ruled out any future benefits to the landowners.Rude jolt The bill to terminate the CRDA was introduced in January 2020. It was passed in June. Two public interest litigations were filed in late January against the repealing of the CRDA Act but were dismissed. Under the new scheme, the Andhra Pradesh government would increase the pension amount being paid to landless farm labour from Rs 2,500 per month to Rs 5,000 per month. The annuity term would increase from 10 to 15 years. Additionally, it would give returnable plots to those who gave land under the LPS on a par with dry land farmers. LPS farmers would now get 0.33 instead of 0.28 acres as promised in the principal Act. The strategy of coercion and co-option employed by the earlier state government to force landowners to part with their land was a misadventure. The termination of the project came as a jolt to the LPS farmers, but benefited those who had refused to give their land under the scheme. Most stakeholders gained little while the farmers and landowners lost everything.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-168
07-08-2020||Opinion||Indelible stain||Sher Ali Afridi. The name may make no sense to us in 2020. I cannot say that Afridi is a forgotten name. It would be much better to say that he has always remained unknown. Ali Afridi was from that area of the erstwhile Punjab province, which is now in Pakistan. A Pakhtun and a former sepoy in the Khyber Agency, he lived a short life during high colonial times. He was arrested and transported to Andaman for serving his jail term. This was almost a quarter century before the construction of the Cellular Jail commenced in 1896, and a few years after the first batch of some 800 ‘expelled’ persons was packed off to what is now Port Blair. Afridi, a lover of freedom, had his flitting moment of glory when he succeeded in killing Lord Mayo. Popularly known as Mayo in India, born in 1822 and educated at the Trinity College, Dublin, Richard Southwell Bourke, the Sixth Earl of Mayo, was posted to India in January 1869 as Viceroy. He is remembered for his work of improving relations between the Afghans and the British. In India, he is generally remembered for carrying out the first ever caste-based census. In February 1872, as the Viceroy was on a visit to Andaman, he was stabbed to death by Sher Ali. The reason? Barely 15 weeks before the murder, Mayo had given the green signal to the first Criminal Tribes Act of India, which turned a large number of innocent persons into criminals. The work towards CTA-1871 had started several decades ago. William Sleeman (1788-1856) was appointed specifically to ‘crush organized gangs’ during the 1830s-40s. He did his industrious work by listing every group of armed persons and every armed clash. He listed them by their caste and community names. And, in the process, he floated an immensely popular idea that there were hordes of thugs freely roaming about in Central India. The Victorian imagination in England was ready to lap up the ‘thuggee’ story. Indians, in contrast, were completely unaware of Sleeman’s action and its potential for a long-term consequence. The most dramatic consequence was the formulation of the CTA around two decades later. The less dramatic, but far more destructive, consequence was that people in India accepted the idea that some sections of society are ‘naturally criminal’. One does not know if Ali Afridi had foreseen the forthcoming demonization of the communities branded by the CTA. Whether he did or did not, the tag of criminality has continued to stick to a large number of Indians, and for far too long. One might tend to think that the communities that were brought under the purview of the CTA-1871 and all its subsequent revisions were, in a way, like all other classes, communities and groups victimized by colonial rule. That they certainly were; but their real tragedy began after colonial rule ended and India gained independence. During British rule, they were restricted from making frequent movements, from going out of the specific area within which they were restricted, or were confined to reformatory settlements and deprived of traditional livelihood and land ownership of any kind. However, when India gained independence, adopted the Constitution, and started preparing for its first general elections, the CTs were still inside their confinement areas and settlements. It was not until August 1952 that they were declared ‘free’. But this freedom came with a catch. Their reformatory settlements were thrown open after several generations had wasted themselves inside, carrying out the unpaid, compulsory labour for colonial civil construction projects, but they had nowhere to go. The life of any individual without land or livelihood is difficult enough; but if, in addition, the person has to carry a social stigma, it becomes far more unbearable. The CTs ‘denotified’ in 1952 had to face a wretched life. They became the non-persons drowned in the dung heap of scorn, contempt, atrocity and utter poverty. They had missed the relief bus as most states had already formed the lists of scheduled castes and scheduled tribes. The denotified tribes — DNTs — remained, in most cases, out of the safety net of social justice. So far, no systematic enumeration of all ‘denotified’ CTs has ever been carried out. But statistical projections on the basis of the 1871 and 1931 population census indicate that a close to accurate guess should place their present population at 14 crore. These people normally try to live without making themselves noticed in any conspicuous way. The stigma has not ceased to chase them. Over the last 25 years, ever since I started working with the DNTs of India, I have noticed that the single column, short-notice news items in district-level newspapers in regional languages about a person maimed to death, mob-lynched or picked up by the police and found dead in police custody often lead the trail, on close scrutiny, to a DNT, sacrificed at the altar of our imperviousness and ignorance about their existence. An eight-year-old Bakerwal girl raped and murdered somewhere in the foothills of the Himalayas; a Pardhi woman forced to undress herself in full view of a crowd and asked to drink someone’s urine in Maharashtra; a 50-year-old Bajania beaten to pulp on the mere suspicion of stealing a green gourd, to name just a few of the incidents, fail to rouse India’s conscience the way George Floyd’s breathlessness moved the entire world into protest and repentance. Make no mistake: the majority among the migratory labourers, who walked hundreds of miles after the lockdown, many of them perishing on the way, were DNTs who had lived a migratory and nomadic life in the pre-colonial times. The Indian State — elite, upper class and sedentary people — failed to respond to the plight of the migratory labourers because we have fully internalized the colonial branding and stereotyping of the DNTs. One would imagine that the DNTs return the society’s attitude of scorn with an equal degree of scorn, its emotional violence with a matching emotional violence. But that is a gross mistake. Recently, I was speaking to various groups of youngsters among the DNTs, and asked them how, next year, they would like to ‘celebrate’ the 150th year of their ‘notification’ by the CTA of Mayo in 1871. Their answer was, “by going to Cumbria — in North England — where a statue of Mayo has been standing in pride, and to offer roses as our expression of forgiveness. We would like to forgive them for what they did to us, for historical revenge is not good for civilized Indian people.” What a noble thought! I too would like to accompany them to Cumbria in 2021. I hope Indians who are busy settling historical scores with Mohammed Ghori and Babur have a moment to spare for the resolve of the DNTs. The author is a cultural activist and founder of DNT Rights Action Group ganesh_devy@yahoo.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-168
