08-08-2020||Opinion||Bad sign: Ram temple on Times Square billboard||Sir — It is deeply disheartening that a 3D portrait of a model of the Ram temple slated to be built in Ayodhya was beamed in New York’s iconic Times Square on the day of the bhoomi pujan. It is bad enough that such blatant signs of majoritarianism and the spread of regressive Hindutva ideals are being celebrated on our own soil; it is worse that the same is being shamelessly propagated overseas, in a city known for its diversity and cosmopolitanism. One wonders whether citizens of the United States of America — of Indian origin or otherwise — know about or remember the demolition of the Babri Masjid, and the plight of minority communities in India ever since.Raya Sinha,New Delhi New normal Sir — It has been reported that Facebook will now be allowing its employees to work from home till July next year, on account of the Covid-19 pandemic and the risks it poses to people if they gather in office spaces. This steadily seems to be becoming the new normal; earlier, the multinational giant, Google, had also announced that its employees would be working from home till July 2021. From this growing stream of decisions, it is evident that even big corporations are acknowledging that the coronavirus outbreak is set to last for a while. The next step now is to ensure that employees who are working from home are given the assistance they require to prevent their mental health from deteriorating. Working from home often lacks the sense of structure and balance that working in an office space affords; essentially, the home becomes one’s place of work, and the boundary between the professional space and the personal one gets blurred. While it is praiseworthy that companies are giving some thought to their employees’ safety by allowing them to work from home, have they considered devising ways to make the experience a healthy one?Ronita Mukherjee,Calcutta Sir — After Google, Facebook, too, has announced that its employees will be working from their homes till the middle of next year. It has also announced that each employee will be given $1,000 for their home office needs. This is an admirable move; while there is no doubt that working from home protects people from having to make the work commute and coming into contact with others, it also means that the allied costs of working for a company which were, till now, covered by their workplaces, would have to be borne by the employees themselves. As such, if work-from-home is to be the model that is followed by big corporations for the foreseeable future, they must ensure that their employees are equipped to thrive in this new environment instead of feeling bogged down by it.Aditya Suri,Mumbai Sir — As the coronavirus threat seems set to stay for a while, it was the right decision on the part of Facebook and, earlier, Google, to allow their employees to work from home till July next year. One hopes that by then, the rapid spread of the disease will have dissipated, as many people are finding it difficult to cope with the work-from-home structure and are eager to get back to their familiar office spaces. Working with colleagues in a common space holds out hope of professional growth, team spirit building and camaraderie that isolated working does not. Hopefully we can eventually all go back to working normally.Ruth Menezes,Mumbai Sir — Like millions of other Indians, milk farmers are also suffering greatly on account of the coronavirus pandemic. After shops were shut down, the demand for milk became low. The government will have to take the necessary steps to support dairy farmers by incentivizing co-operatives to export more skimmed milk powder, the supply for which has exceeded the demand. Perhaps the ‘Anand’ model of dairy development in India, pioneered by Verghese Kurien and replicated all over the country, needs to be rejuvenated in all pockets so that milk farmers do not have to go without incomes and are able to sustain themselves again in these trying times.Bal Govind,Noida||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-168
08-08-2020||Opinion||Great walls: Closing down Confucius Institutes||Some cycles are hard to break. Mistrust shuts down friendly exchange, and the lack of communication feeds further mistrust. India is not the first country to consider closing down Confucius Institutes, arranged and partially funded by Hanban, an agency of the Chinese education ministry, and housed in higher educational institutions. The institutes teach Mandarin and acquaint students with Chinese culture and are, in declared intent, similar to various other overseas institutes offering lessons in language, culture and history of their respective countries. Learning about the cultural assets of different regions is an enriching part of education in the host country, especially the acquisition of a new language, which, as Charlemagne had said, creates a supplementary personality. Acquiring a foreign language extends horizons. An introduction to the culture and history of any country is part of that extension, opening up new routes to explore and offering, as it were, citizenship of the world. In contemporary times, though, such activities cannot but be mediated through the prism of diplomacy or, indirectly, political relations, and seen as a form of soft power. Before India considered reviewing the function of Confucius Institutes and Chinese language classes, other countries, such as Sweden, Australia and the United States of America, had already started closing down the institutes. The broad complaint against them is that they are being used as vehicles for Chinese propaganda, while specific complaints relate to distortions of and omissions in history, hiring on the basis of loyalty and so on. In short, Hanban is turning a means of cultural exchange and education into a political tool. The allegations are unfortunate; once political mistrust and hostility poison ostensibly non-political possibilities of mutual understanding, the resultant hardening of attitudes is not good for any side. More, it forcibly limits the imagination and curiosity of young people about different ways of life and speech in the world. India’s mistrust is not difficult to understand after its continuing disagreement with China at the Line of Actual Control. The review of Confucius Institutes accompanies the bans on certain Chinese apps because they threaten privacy. Both acts are frankly political. What seems petulant, however, is the dropping of Mandarin from the list of foreign languages that the new education policy offers secondary level students. India’s connections with many countries, not just China, are old, rich and deep. To shut down avenues of educational and cultural exchange with any of them is to deprive young people of their own histories, as well as a country for them to study or work in. Besides, if strategy alone is to dictate policy, language learning, even Mandarin, has practical advantages — from decoding messages now to pushing business interests, maybe in the future. Doors once shut may not be easy to open. It is important to tread the thin line between political mistrust and cultural open-mindedness. Not easy, perhaps, but it can be done.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-168
08-08-2020||Opinion||Open air views: RA displays Impressionists||Camille Pissarro’s Plum Trees in Blossom, painted by the artist in 1894 towards the end of his life at Éragny, his house outside Paris, is just about my favourite painting in a new exhibition focusing on the French Impressionists at the Royal Academy which has reopened — with strict restrictions — after four months of lockdown. “Our belief in the power of art for all is still as strong as ever and we can’t wait for the RA to gradually be filled once more with people and creativity,” said Rebecca Salter, the RA’s first woman president in over 250 years. The exhibition of 60 works, Gauguin and the Impressionists: Masterpieces from the Ordrupgaard Collection, includes masterpieces by Pissarro, Edgar Degas, Édouard Manet, Claude Monet, Berthe Morisot, Auguste Renoir and Alfred Sisley. It also features precursors of Impressionism such as Camille Corot, Gustave Courbet, Jules Dupré and Charles-François Daubigny, and a number of Post-Impressionist works including “an exceptional group of eight paintings” by Paul Gauguin. Ordrupgaard, now a museum, is a house just outside Copenhagen where a wealthy Danish couple, Wilhelm and Henny Hansen, built one of the finest collections of Impressionist paintings between 1916 and the late 1920s. The exhibition’s curator, Anna Ferrari, said it was “a great privilege to be able to hang such a wonderful collection of paintings”. About Pissarro’s Plum Trees, she explained the artist had “done a series of works of the four seasons”, as reflected in his garden. She also spoke about the Impressionists’ en plein air movement: “One of the key ideas... was to paint in the open air — they were breaking from the academic tradition of painting indoors.” This has contemporary relevance. Recognizing people lucky enough to have gardens have found it psychologically easier to get through lockdown, the British government never denied people access to parks and open spaces even at the height of the pandemic. Home is where the heart is After 20 years of scholarly research, Dr Gëzim Alpion, from the department of social policy, sociology and criminology at the University of Birmingham, has just published his much praised Mother Teresa: The Saint and Her Nation, which seeks to unravel the mystery behind the woman. He has described his book as “a labour of love”. But why did she pick Calcutta? “Mother Teresa chose Calcutta as she had heard about the city from Balkan priests in the talks they gave in her parish church and in articles published in the Catholic magazines about their experience as missionaries in India,” the author, who, like his subject, is of Albanian origin, told me. “She applied to the Loreto order in Dublin with the intention of being sent to Calcutta where this order had its headquarters. She always felt safe, welcome and at home in Calcutta. She once said, ‘I will be buried in India — my country.’” Alpion explained: “The important thing is that while Mother Teresa was proud of her Albanian origin, she was also proud to consider herself an Indian and see Calcutta and India as her home. She loved India. I believe she genuinely felt an attachment with Calcutta.”Great loss Amar Singh seemed remarkably well-informed when I first met him in July 2006 when he had come to Leicester as Amitabh Bachchan’s “younger brother” when the Bollywood legend was being given an honorary Doctor of Arts by De Montfort University as “quite simply India’s greatest film actor”. “He is friendly with Ramola Bachchan,” said the Samajwadi Party leader in a disapproving way, when we were introduced by Keith Vaz, the then Labour MP for Leicester East, who had nominated Bachchan for the honorary degree. It is true that I attended Ramola’s parties at her home in Hampstead — in fact, I was asked to do so to write a colour piece by Charles Moore, my editor at The Sunday Telegraph (Charles was last week given a peerage by another of his rather more influential journalists, Boris Johnson). After the graduation ceremony, Vaz escorted his two guests on a tour of Leicester and the city’s football club and also hosted a dinner for them at the House of Commons. To his credit, Vaz did not abandon the Samajwadi leader but paid generous tribute to him after he passed away in Singapore, aged 64. “Amar Singh was a one off — I liked him,” Vaz told me. “Few of us politicians get to be called a legend in their lifetime but he certainly was. Privately he was a Netflix series on his own with intimate knowledge of so many politicians and business figures. We will miss his incredible political skills, his biting wit and his charisma.”Golden age Another word on the broadcaster, Kailash Budhwar, whose moving and dignified funeral was live streamed from the Chiltern Hills Crematorium in Buckinghamshire for relatives and friends who could not attend because of Covid restrictions. Since Kailash was “spiritual” but not formally religious, there were no priests but the service began with “Raghupati Raghava Raja Ram”, while a former colleague described his period at the BBC as “the golden age of the Hindi service”. There was also a reading of Harivansh Rai Bachchan’s poem, “Jo beet gayi so baat gayi”. Footnote In the six-part BBC dramatization of A Suitable Boy, it’s worth keeping an eye on Lata Mehra’s Calcutta suitor, Amit Chatterji (Mikhail Sen), who made his debut in the very engaging second episode. Vikram Seth put a bit of himself into the character. Vikram’s late mother, the judge Leila Seth, who had been reading Tagore’s Shesher Kobita, had wanted to call her son “Amit”, but her husband decided the name should begin with “V” after consulting astrologers. So it became “Vikram”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-168
08-08-2020||Opinion||Primeval darkness||Indian reality came into its own as Narendra Modi threw himself on the ground in one sashtanga pranam after another. Over a billion Hindus could have preened themselves on an epic victory but did Wednesday’s elaborate rejection of secularism and exaltation of a mythic Ram rajya also jettison the Republic? The live television coverage recalled David’s painting of Napoleon’s coronation, which someone called a “transparently masterminded piece of modern propaganda” with a major difference. Napoleon took the crown from Pope Pius and crowned himself. Brahmin priests anointed Modi’s head with a contraption adorned by an ornate coronet. Whether or not the Ram mandir bhoomi pujan “not only laid the foundation of a mandir but also the foundation of a Hindu Rashtra”, as the All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen’s Asaduddin Owaisi claimed, it both heralded and officially sanctified a significant shift that will affect every aspect of life. There has always been a certain dissonance between the native and what was acquired during what Modi calls “bara sau saal ki ghulami (twelve hundred years of slavery)”. Rajiv Gandhi noted one aspect of this confusion when he told a small group of editors that he had problems explaining in Hindi to Zail Singh that ministers could not be sacked at whim just because the Constitution said they held office at the “pleasure” of the president. Asian authoritarianism does not tolerate European protocols and precedents. Jawaharlal Nehru was probably the last Indian readily to acquiesce in conventions like the British monarch voluntarily never using her enormous theoretical powers. West Bengal’s Jagdeep Dhankhar may see no reason why any form of propriety ordained by Westminster should prevent him from furthering the interests of the party to which he belongs and which appointed him. His predecessor, Keshari Nath Tripathi, felt “like a toothless tiger”. Similarly, the Supreme Court judge who lauded the prime minister as an “internationally acclaimed visionary” with the “versatile genius to think globally and act locally”, the supposedly radical corporate honcho who flopped down to touch a chief minister’s feet, or the vice-chancellor who doubled up in obeisance before another chief minister were only being true to instinct and their inherited traditions. The vice-chancellor, a molecular parasitologist working in infectious diseases, candidly acknowledged her “culture” being “Marwari”, “any older person or anyone of status” had to be greeted by bending low. A dignified bow or brisk Western handshake that places both parties on the same level would be too egalitarian. It may seem a short step from self-abasement to the debasement that inspired the tale of a Bengali writer who wore a dhoti over his pants during the uprising of 1857 so that he was on the winning side, whatever the outcome. The elevation of Hindu nationalism must by definition reject many customs and practices Indians accept as normal. One of the prime minister’s Mann ki Baat programmes specifically hit out at modernity when, espousing the case for listing yoga and adopting Ayush guidelines to boost immunity, it contended that Indians often don’t accept such traditions from the past without “evidence-based research” in other countries. “Possibly this is largely due to our hundreds of years of ghulami” was his not implausible explanation. The impugned period covers not only the decades when Britain ruled the entire Indian subcontinent but also the centuries when Muslim dynasties from abroad controlled chunks of South Asia. Modi obviously regards this as the equivalent of the 900 years of European history — between the fall of the Roman Empire and the Renaissance — labelled the Dark Ages. No historical label is beyond contention. Europe’s Renaissance and Reformation also had their contemporary critics. Quibblers against Marxist-Leninist orthodoxy were dubbed revisionist. If Boris Johnson were so lacking in self-confidence as to follow Modi’s example and treat alien rule as unrelieved disaster, he would ban William the Conqueror’s Domesday Book, the earliest public record and foundation document of Britain’s national archives and the source of still valid legal title to land. Any such purge in India would risk demolishing just about every familiar institution that testifies to modern nationhood. It had to be pointed out to a high-ranking bureaucrat that if Delhi’s Lutyens bungalows were bulldozed because they were colonial, so are Rashtrapati Bhavan and North and South Block. The abolition of universities, judiciary, administration, media, the armed forces or the smart private hospitals preferred by politicians (no clanging thaalis or cow dung for them) would plunge the country into primeval darkness. Not that such drastic measures are contemplated, but it is not beyond political cunning to erode the Constitution from within while paying lip-service to it. Ironically, no extravagant symbol of outward modernity is spurned as India flaunts ancient roots to the sound of cymbal and shloka. The president and prime minister will whiz around the globe in custom-built fighters equipped with advanced missile defence measures that rival the American president’s Air Force One. New Delhi’s proposed central plaza will dazzle the world and impress on everyone what puny folk the British and their immediate successors were. The world’s tallest statue will be matched by even more gigantic figures, lest other countries also buy Chinese technology and catch up. Ayodhya’s grandiose temple will oblige an embarrassed Khadga Prasad Sharma Oli to regret his effrontery in trying to drag Modi’s Ram down to his level. But even while harnessing the power of technology in their public outreach and preaching from the most sophisticated digital platforms, today’s rulers reject the enlightenment that inspired Nehru’s conclusion that “politics and religion are obsolete” and that “the time has come for science and spirituality”. Nehru did not endear himself to the mainstream media either by urging it (in vain) to build up the nation’s scientific temper by not publishing astrological predictions. The stars are omnipresent. Hundreds of Amitabh Bachchan’s fans gathered during his recent illness at the temple to him with a life-size statue of the actor that has apparently existed in Calcutta since 2001. I don’t know what they did; Bachchan himself seems to have indulged in some of the superstitious ritual earlier. He may even have heeded Suman Haripriya, the Assam Bharatiya Janata Party legislator, who says cow dung cures Covid-19 while cow urine is the antidote for cancer. According to another saffron worthy, Arjun Ram Meghwal, whose impressive clutch of ministerial portfolios includes water resources, river development, Ganga rejuvenation and parliamentary affairs, the papads he promotes create antibodies that combat the coronavirus. Pragya Singh Thakur and Ramesh Saxena are as divided on the medicinal virtues of chanting Tulsidas’s Hanuman Chalisa as by their politics. Thakur holds that reciting the hymn five times a day will “definitely work and we will be free from coronavirus”. Not enough, says the Congress’s sceptical Saxena: only 11 daily recitations can banish the coronavirus. Mustafa Kemal Atatürk was hailed as Asia’s liberator. He was Turkey’s Nehru. He banned the fez. Recep Tayyip Erdogan is the new liberator. He encouraged the return of the hijab. He has also converted the church of Hagia Sophia into a mosque. Modi might be credited for initiating a similar process here. The official liturgy need not insist that Ram flew the first aeroplane, Karna was “born outside his mother’s womb” because “stem cell technology was known in ancient India” or that “the practice of plastic surgery” began with a Hindu scientist attaching an elephant’s head on a human body. These being the prime minister’s views, the Hindu rank and file will no longer feel inhibited about asserting the absurd with all the dogmatic conviction of the uninformed. Twelve hundred years of slavery makes for imitativeness. Far from being resolved, the mismatch between East and West that accounts for so much of India’s confusion will get worse as our reinvigorated rulers preach one thing and practise another.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-168
