09-08-2020||Opinion||Enduring echoes: the universal truth of Art||Mortality is humanity’s Achilles’ heel. But the ingenuity of civilization is such that it has found a way around the problem. The body as a form may decay and die. But what is created through the mind’s eye can achieve immortality. This is because Art — that incandescent universe made up of enduring image, text and every other conceivable form of creativity — has, quite often, succeeded in defying the ravages of time. Poetry, verse or other manifestations of Art has the ability to speak across the frontiers of time and space. The truths they uphold are universal. The endurance of human creativity was brought to light, once again, by the deliberations on a poem that Rabindranath Tagore — his 79th death anniversary fell on Friday — had written 120 years ago. “Deeno Daan”, part of an anthology of poetry titled Kahini, chronicles a sage telling a monarch that the shrine that he has built by spending a small fortune cannot, unfortunately, be christened as a house of god. This is because the temple, the sage says, was built in a year of great hardship during which the king — the sovereign of the people — had turned his gaze away from the welfare of his subjects. Deeno Daan is a remarkable testament to the prescience of Tagore’s poetic vision. The public reminiscence of this particular verse is also understandable. In a year of unprecedented hardship — a raging pandemic, economic downturn, communal conflagration, the march of migrant labourers, among other misfortunes, may have made the year, 2020, annus horribilis for India — the country has also witnessed, indeed celebrated, the inauguration of a grand shrine dedicated to one of its principal deities. The politics of modern monuments in India and the world would reveal a curious contradiction. Some of the most imposing architectural projects have been undertaken in societies experiencing significant duress. The foundation stone of the imposing Victoria Memorial in Calcutta had been laid months after the controversial announcement of the partition of Bengal. The architectural transformation of Berlin in the 1930s, marked by the construction of imposing edifices, took place even as pluralist Germany hurtled towards embracing the spectre of Nazism. History, surely, is replete with many other instances of apathetic administrations and people gazing up at impressive monuments in a bid to avert their eyes from the proverbial burning ground. It can be argued with reason, as the Poet did in that memorable passage, that divinity cannot reside in such edifices, be they shrines or regal palaces. This is because god is best served by man by honouring the principles of service and compassion. Any structure, even an embodiment of the article of faith, that is created ignoring the plight of the weak, the defenceless and the marginalized — M.K. Gandhi’s metaphorical last man standing in a queue — runs the risk of undermining the philosophy of commiseration. Tagore, given his noble vision, had spotted the transgression. It remains to be seen whether the nation can emulate the revered Poet in this respect.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-167
09-08-2020||Opinion||Against forgetting||The bhoomi pujan in Ayodhya with the prime minister of India presiding was an important moment in the political evolution of the Republic. Narendra Modi had a double role. He was both jajman and karta: the Hindu client who had commissioned the ceremony on behalf of the Hindu Undivided Family, now known as India, of which he was the regnant patriarch. The most stringent critic of nationalism will concede that nations frame our lives. A sense of national belonging shapes our leisure (watching Test cricket), our collective sense of the past (Gandhi and Ambedkar as fictive ancestors), our literary output (Ghare Baire and The Shadow Lines) and our mental maps of the world. We have learnt from historians of nationalism such as Benedict Anderson and Eric Hobsbawm that nations aren’t given, they are imagined. The ritual at Ayodhya, carried live by every television news channel in India, marked the enthronement of the idea of India as a Hindu Nation, governed by an ideologically Hindu prime minister, on behalf of its mainly Hindu People. The construction of the Ram Mandir where the sangh parivar wants it built won’t lead to apocalypse. The world will look the same the morning after, but the common sense of the Republic will have shifted. It will begin to seem reasonable to us and our children that those counted in the majority have a right to have their sensibilities respected, to have their beliefs deferred to by others. Invisibly we shall have become some other country. I wrote the previous paragraph twenty years ago as the conclusion of a short book called Secular Common Sense. To quote yourself is a gruesome thing to do; my excuse is that now that the ground has been consecrated, judicially and ritually, those of us who opposed the violent campaign for a temple in Ayodhya must reckon with the reality of the new country that it has ushered into being. The gravitational pull of the new political reality that the temple symbolizes is apparent. Kamal Nath and Priyanka Vadra, leaders of India’s principal Opposition party, the Indian National Congress, have publicly signaled their support for the Ram Mandir. A mandir for Ram Lalla used to be the sangh parivar’s pet project; now it’s every neta’s baby. It isn’t just professional politicians who have been converted to the temple’s cause. Pavan Varma, writer, diplomat and erstwhile spokesperson of the Janata Dal (United), has written recently of his exasperation with the carping of liberals about building the Ram temple at Ayodhya after the dispute had been definitively resolved by the Supreme Court. Another progressive notable likes to tell of the time a plain-spoken citizen from Haryana set him right on the Ram Mandir when he asked, rhetorically, that if a Ram temple wasn’t to be built in Ayodhya, where was it to be built, in London? This simple question from this sturdy citizen is intended as a reproach to deracinated progressives cut off from the strength of popular feeling. The history of administrative deceit, political complicity and organized violence that led to the razing of the Babri Masjid and then roiled its aftermath is erased and replaced by an alternative narrative: the long-suffering Hindu majority’s spontaneous, reasonable and just demand for a temple to its god in Ayodhya, his birthplace. This is a sleight of hand that progressives should refuse. The movement to raze the Babri Masjid wasn’t a stand-alone project. It was one trunk in a grove of bigotry, inseparable from the other branches and roots of that toxic tree. The political project that trivialized pogrom, normalized lynching, criminalized dissent, physically attacked universities, and introduced a religious test for citizenship also gave us the Ayodhya movement. To make out that the building of the Ram temple is a necessary concession to a deep well of religious feeling is disingenuous. Once the bhavya mandir is built, it will be less a religious shrine than a symbol of the Hindu ownership of the Indian nation. The more sophisticated case for embracing the mandir and moving on is made up of two related arguments. The first one is simple: political defeat in a democratic republic has consequences and liberals shouldn’t be sore losers. This is bad advice: no political project worth the name should be abandoned after a couple of electoral routs. Had the sangh parivar taken this advice to heart after the drafting of a liberal and secular Constitution and the subsequent decades of Congress dominance, there would be no Ram Mandir in the offing. The related argument takes its cue from Ernest Renan’s proposition that all nations are based on selective amnesia. In his influential lecture, “What is a Nation?”, Renan argued that the political unification of France involved so much war and bloodshed that the French needed to forget their past to forge a national present. Transposing Renan to contemporary India, the move-on and live-to-fight-another-day realists argue that instead of picking at the Ayodhya scab, progressives should let it be. This would help national healing and create a less communally charged political arena in which to practise progressive politics. By drawing a line under the razing of the mosque, via a kind of willed forgetfulness, liberals would sidestep the communal argument that in a Hindu-majority India, only one party can win. It’s not unreasonable to argue that in a hundred years the Ayodhya confrontation might be reduced to a footnote in some unread political history of the early 21st century. This sounds plausible because we know that it is hard for us to be proportionate about the present, to see it in perspective. But the question to ask ourselves is this: will the razing of the Babri Masjid and the building of the Ram Mandir be forgotten because these events became politically irrelevant, or will they be taken for granted because they were foundational to everything that followed? If the Axis powers had won World War Two, Kristallnacht would be footnoted in today’s textbooks as a passage of cathartic violence that reinvigorated Aryan nationalism. It is inevitable that some politicians and intellectuals will tack right towards India’s shifting centre. They aren’t necessarily acting in bad faith. The holding actions and compromises that parties and individuals resort to as they fight for their lives against the sangh parivar’s juggernaut need understanding, not denunciation. But to accept the ideological premises of the sangh parivar is the opposite of living to fight another day. If a willed amnesia about the vandalism and violence of the Ram Janmabhoomi movement is the necessary preliminary to practical politics, the battle is lost already. The razing of the Babri Masjid and the raising of the Ram Temple are two sides of the same coin. That coin is the currency of Hindu nationalism. Liberals, socialists, progressives and decent constitutionalists of any stripe can’t deal in it. Milan Kundera is a better guide to political action in the present moment than Renan. The business of progressive politics in this precarious time is to remember, not forget, the instrumental and ideological violence of the Ram Janmabhoomi movement. “The struggle of man against power,” writes Kundera, “is the struggle of memory against forgetting.” mukulkesavan@hotmail.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-167
09-08-2020||Opinion||When no comment leads to murmurs in corridors of power||The “bhoomi pujan” or site-worship performed by the prime minister, Narendra Modi, this week that laid the ground for the construction of the Ram temple in Ayodhya has gripped the imagination of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party like no other event. Party leaders and cadres believe that with the bhoomi pujan the foundation of a ‘New India’ or ‘Bharat’ has been laid by the prime minister. The party was so intoxicated by the celebrations for the upcoming temple that it seemed to have completely forgotten to tom-tom the first anniversary of the abrogation of Article 370 in Kashmir, that fell on the same day. It was, however, taken up by the party the day after, on Thursday. The interesting part was that the two top leaders of the BJP maintained absolute silence, making no reference at all to this massive achievement in their tweets. The abrogation of Article 370 was one of the core ideological commitments of the BJP, much older than the promise to retrieve the Ram Janmabhoomi. The silence of Amit Shah, who piloted the proposal in Parliament and earned the sobriquet of the new ‘Iron Man of India’ in the party circles, was more confounding. Shah is currently in hospital after testing positive for Covid-19, but his Twitter handle is active. But while he tweeted on the Ram temple and other issues, when it came to Article 370, he made no comment. This silence has led to all kinds of murmurs in the corridors of power. The Amul girl, who survived by taking a dig at successive governments, seems to have decided that discretion is the better part of valour. Or so it would seem from some of the recent advertisements where she appears not just mellowed but also in sync with the BJP government. The latest example is the advertisement that coincided with the bhoomi pujan in Ayodhya. Over the past few years, the young lady has come out in support of the Modi government’s moves in Kashmir as well as on ‘surgical strikes’, leaving the jibes for individuals in the ruling regime rather than the dispensation as a whole. Yet another storm has begun to brew in the teacup of Indian politics. At a meeting between Rahul Gandhi and Congress leaders from Bihar on Thursday, the Rajya Sabha parliamentarian, Akhilesh Prasad Singh, was said to have praised the good work of Yogi Adityanath and Arvind Kejriwal in controlling the coronavirus situation while criticizing the pathetic performance of Nitish Kumar. Although Singh has commended the work of governments in Congress-ruled Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh too, many leaders present in the meeting — it was held via video-conference — had a tough time digesting the good words that the party MP used for Adityanath and Kejriwal. While some were of the opinion that praising bitter rivals could have been avoided, others argued that the assessment itself was flawed because both Uttar Pradesh and Delhi have failed in the management of the pandemic. Nobody countered Singh’s claims at the meeting, but some leaders took them so seriously that they complained against them to the central leadership. They said that in the light of the UP chief minister ruthlessly targeting the Congress and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra being locked in a bitter fight with him, a Congress MP praising his work is naïve and politically problematic. With respect to Kejriwal, one Congress leader said that “his crime is the worst as people were left to fend for themselves despite Delhi having the best healthcare infrastructure in the country”. Several Congress leaders said Kejriwal was primarily responsible for thousands of people from Bihar having to walk back home following the lockdown. What is interesting is that many of these leaders are upset with Singh for his pro-Bhumihar politics in Bihar. That he has come from the Rashtriya Janata Dal and acquired a dominant role in the Congress is another grudge prompting these belligerent responses. Never have Cauvery and Krishna, the official residence and home office of the chief minister of Karnataka, looked so deserted. Ever since BS Yediyurappa and six of his personal staff tested positive for Covid-19, these two iconic buildings have remained closed. The outbreak of Covid-19 had already reduced the number of visitors when Yediyurappa landed in hospital. With some in the BJP taking this as a bad omen, it is being speculated that it would not be a surprise if the highly superstitious chief minister decides to spend most of his days now on at his private home in the city. Supporting the Ram temple construction has put the Congress on the defensive in Kerala. With some  senior leaders like Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, Digvijay Singh and Kamal Nath lauding the move, Kerala’s highly vocal Congress leaders, Ramesh Chennithala and Mullappally Ramachandran, among others, reportedly had to dodge journalists’ questions on the issue continuously. This gave the ruling Left Front a means to checkmate the Congress and its allies. Some Congress leaders privately admit that they should not have stuck their necks out.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-167
09-08-2020||Opinion||Surface sheen: celebrating National Handloom Day||Sir — On National Handloom Day, the Union minister of textiles, Smriti Irani, asked people to promote the cause of India’s rich and diverse handloom sector and acknowledge contribution of weavers in conserving our heritage. Bollywood stars obliged by posting pictures of themselves in fancy sarees. But what about those who made those sarees? People buying more handloom does not necessarily translate into profits for those on the ground who put in hard work to create these beautiful fabrics. They are often cheated out of money by middle-men who buy cheap and make huge profits.

Rima Roy
Calcutta Sir — It would not be completely off the mark to say that the victims of the Air India Express flight crash lost their lives to a man-made disaster. The flight was on a Vande Bharat mission and was returning from Dubai to Kozhikode, Kerala. It skidded off a rain-soaked runway to claim the lives of 20 people, and injured around 150 passengers. The runway at this airport — known as a table-top runway by pilots — led to a 40-feet deep valley, where the plane fell and split into two. Interestingly, this airport receives a lot of international flights; every year not only do a large number of flights to Saudi Arabia for the hajj pilgrimage leave from here but it also supports a considerable number of international flights particularly to Gulf countries. Thankfully there was no fire, otherwise the loss of life would have been far worse. In 2010, in a similar tragic accident at another hill top airport in Mangalore, an Air India Express flight from Dubai carrying 166 people had skidded off the runway, tumbled into a valley and burst into flames, killing 158 people. What one fails to understand is that why did air traffic control not direct the flight to a safer airport even after the India Meteorological Department had declared a red alert in three of Kerala’s districts, including the said airspace. One hopes there is an honest investigation into this incident and systemic changes are put in place to prevent them in the future. Any solution will require both money and manpower. The Central government should come forward to help the state make the said airport safer.Bidyut Kumar Chatterjee
Faridabad Sir — The flight accident at Kozhikode is unfortunate. It is not clear why warnings about the lack of safety of the airstrip were ignored even after a similar accident took place in Mangalore in 2010. The least that could have been done was to reschedule the flight given the heavy rains. The flight could also have been diverted by ATC once the pilot found landing difficult owing to waterlogging and poor visibility. One hopes that just because the State carrier is involved, enquiries will not put the blame on rain but actually get to the bottom of the matter so that such a tragedy does not recur. The government has announced monetary compensation for victims, but this will not bring back those who lost their lives.M. Raghuraman
Mumbai Sir — The gruesome incident at the Kozhikode airport has left citizens shaken. The Kozhikode airport has a table-top runway, just like the one at Mangalore which had witnessed a more horrific crash in 2010 that killed about 160 people. This incident is a reminder to the authorities that they should turn their focus on the safety audit of such table-top airports, which can be unsafe during the rainy season. Either table-top airports should be shut down during the monsoons, especially in the southern states that experience torrential rainfall or they should consider building extra facilities that will make such runways safer. The pilot and the co-pilot who lost their lives in the line of duty showed exemplary courage and true grit under a trying situation. Their presence of mind helped save over 100 lives. Mention must also be made of the cooperation of local people who immediately swung into action and participated in rescue operations along with the authorities. Their bravery saved lives and deserves applause. Our hearts go out to the family members of those who lost their lives.Ramesh G. Jethwani
Bangalore||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-167
09-08-2020||Opinion||Knock. Knock. Who’s there?||The Ram Mandir bhoomi pujan done, the wait for the very tall temple --- 161-feet --- begins. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has said, “A grand temple will now be built for our Ram Lalla who had been staying in a tent for decades.” Which brings us to the question, where do gods live? Not in heaven it seems, at least not for a long, long time. One of the earliest beliefs across geographies is that they lived in mountains or that was the closest one could come to them. Mountains and trees Mount Olympus, believed the ancient Greeks, was the address of 12 senior gods --- Zeus, Hera, Poseidon, Demeter, Athena, Apollo, Artemis, Ares, Hephaestus, Aphrodite, Hermes and Dionysus. Researchers claim ancient ritual sites have been found on Andean mountain summits up to 6,700 metres. Mount Kailash in Tibet is considered to be the abode of Shiva by Hindus. Vajrayana Buddhists associate it with the Buddha. And the followers of Bon, an ancient Tibetan religion, believe it is the seat of the sky-goddess Sipaimen. Japan’s Mount Fuji is held sacred and Fuji-san is supposed the incarnation of the earth spirit. Certain sects regard the mountain as home to the goddess Sengen-sama. In China, the sacred Daoist mountains are Tai Shan, Hua Shan, Heng Shan Bei, Heng Shan Nan and Son Shan. In many civilisations trees are also considered sacred. The grove located just outside the city of Osogbo in Nigeria is dedicated to a fertility goddess. Sacred groves are common in Lithuania. The Celts hold the mistletoe sacred and the tree on which it grows; they revere the oak too. Temple Run The most popular pilgrimages are but a long trek to keep a tryst with the divine. Bethlehem, Lumbini, Mecca, Amarnath, Golden Temple and others are believed to be repositories of the divine by direct or indirect association. The architectural quirks of these holy sites are but a reflection of community beliefs, community wealth, even community expectations of its gods. In Mesopotamia, the temples were constructed in the form of ziggurats reaching skywards in a series of stairs as if to help the gods straddle the two worlds. Closer home a poet once sang, “Kaaj ki amar mondire te aana gonay/Patbo aashon, apon moner ekti konay)… What need for me to frequent the temple at all/When all I need is a little space in my own heart.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-167
09-08-2020||Opinion||Is All Well In Lalla Land?||All of this is happening in His absence. He is not here, but who or what is to stop this happening? They go on happening, yeh zindagi ke melay. We do not know where He is, or what He might be up to. We do not know whether he intends returning. At all. Ever. Such a toxic mess we have made of this place, who in their right senses would want to return? And He is the possessor of right senses, that is what we want to believe and have faith in. That is why He is He. We do not know a lot of things. Including whether this is where He wants to be. Where He once belonged. You are. Everywhere. Where are you not. Tell me. To locate you is to commit the sin of denying your omnipresence. What’s happening? This blasphemy of playing Him to Him, to be aspiring to provide Him what we are, or should be, grateful that He provided us. That is what we understand. He provided. We are the beneficiaries of His provisions. But we want to return the favour, is that it? We want to turn imposters, become Him. Let’s give Him. This, that and the other. Let’s fight to give Him his due, He has deserved it. Aham Brahmaasmi, I am the Lord. Not yet. Don’t get carried away. Khuda ban baithe? And now you will do for Khuda what you think Khuda has deserved and been deprived of? You will build Him a house and instal Him there? And then tell Him you have made Him this and that, stay here and I shall come once every while to pay you a visit? Like they do with old folks when they go drop them at old people’s homes? And then stride out in society and collect brownie points, or points of whatever is your chosen colour because colour carries such depth of meaning, for what a lovely abode you appointed? I am looking for Him. I have been looking a long while. And now I have arrived here, having escaped all of that. All of that noise. All of that quarrelling. All of that sound and the fury, and the curses and the name-calling, and all the babble over this Book and not that Book, and the bloodletting and bombing, all that battling that is being done out there in His name, all those unholy rites being conducted in the services of Him, the Holy One, the one and only, who, I am told is not one but many, and many contrary ones. There is my Him. There is his Him. There is their Him. All those Hims may only be one Him but they have been turned into many Hims and each Him has been pulled into battle with this Him and that Him by those that believe in this Him and not that Him. (Would it have been better if we had a Her for a Him? #JustSaying. But probably no. No, positively no. Think why I say that, ponder on it. Her? Several Hers? Imagine the battles multiplied manifold.) Besides, building a home for Her. It would be complicated. It always is, it is one of the things that defines the human condition, the degree of difficulty of building a home for Her. Any Her. But I am here, in my escape, amid fresh air and freshly sprung roots, looking around. Maybe this is the right place. Maybe He has escaped here too and sought refuge from all that is being gnashed and pillaged and won and lost and being cast anew in His name over the piles of what gnashing and pillaging leaves behind? I am looking for Him. Lying in wait, in a moment of respite. Are you here? Please find me. Because I lost you. My heart’s your home, no other
So why would they seek another
I made you not, you made me me
Conceit it is, to build for you, Praise be.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-167
