10-08-2020||Opinion||Look in the mirror: Personal grooming during Covd-19||Sir — There was much talk about how staying at home and not being able to get salon treatments may cure vanity, what with men not being able to get haircuts or shaves and women not being able to get their eyebrows done and so on. But looking good is not just about vanity, it is also intricately tied to one’s self-worth. When men and women who are running themselves ragged between the kitchen and the laptop look at themselves in the mirror, how they look affects their self-esteem. This, along with the strain of being cooped up at home, is not doing wonders for people’s mental health.Roshni Sen,Calcutta Green path Sir — The initiative taken by the Odisha forest department to grow bamboo forests by scattering seed balls is laudable (“Seed balls to grow a forest for jumbos”, Aug 9). However, some important factors need to be considered before the initiative is kicked off. Bamboo survives and grows through underground rhizomes, which take years to develop. The succulent seedlings may germinate under favourable soil and moisture conditions, but they will be vulnerable to grazing by the village cattle and goats, especially after the rains, as well as to bush fires — factors that are ubiquitous to forests across the country. Elephants roam over very large stretches, something they are wont to do by force of their instinctive nature and they are in the habit of destroying forests while searching for forage. Regenerating small patches of forests with bamboo and other fodder crops thus has very limited mitigatory effects so far as marauding elephants are involved. Attempts like the one in question being made in the Athagarh Division will succeed only if these are made a part of an integral approach involving large scale rehabilitation of forests, creation of large water bodies and fodder banks, including villagers and local communities to ensure that elephants do not carry off the seeds with themselves and ensuring prompt payment of reasonable compensation for crop damage and attacks on humans. The forest department needs to think harder before implementing this plan.Biswajit Majumdar,NagpurStep too far Sir — The decision to close Confucius Institutes would be a knee-jerk reaction to the ongoing crisis between India and China (“Great walls”, Aug 8). These institutes are aimed at providing an insight into the history and culture of China, this closure ensures that a Herculean effort would be needed to restart such an exchange — if at all. Deriving their name from the famous Chinese educator and philosopher, Confucius, these institutes are not for profit and were started in 2004. The initiative to start these institutes was a positive one and benefited citizens in 162 countries and regions who wanted to learn the Chinese language, and about its culture and lifestyle. Such institutes help develop harmonious relations among countries at a time when protectionism is peaking. ] India’s reaction is thus premature and unwarranted. It followed suit on the action being taken by other countries when it should have stood out and set an example.Vinay Asawa,Howrah Sir — Confucius Institutes were started by China to promote the learning of Mandarin and educate people about the Chinese culture in 162 countries and regions. While China claims that these institutes are aimed at helping people better understand the culture, roles of CIs have been questioned in many quarters. There have long been accusations that China uses the institutes for political and commercial purposes like spying on foreign entities and overseas Chinese students. The institutes’ learning materials allegedly distort contemporary Chinese history too. It is thus not surprising that the United States of America stopped funding programmes at universities that host CIs. Sweden has shut down all CIs in the country. The Indian government, too, has decided to review the presence of CIs. Given the dubious manner in which the Chinese authorities function, there is definitely a case for shutting down all CIs in the country at a time when Indian and Chinese troops are up in arms at the border. This is justified and broadly consistent with the Central government’s decision to ban some Chinese apps which threaten Indian users’ privacy. This however does not mean that learning Mandarin language or doing research on Chinese culture should be stopped or discouraged. Rather India can turn to Taiwan or Singapore for assistance in setting up Mandarin language learning centres. In fact, India’s pivot towards Taiwan was also witnessed when New Delhi chose a high-profile career diplomat as India’s next envoy to Taipei. It is time to take China’s hegemony in the region head on.Khokan Das,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-166
10-08-2020||Opinion||Wrong court: Trial by media, again||Little is more deplorable than a continuing public cacophony around the tragedy of an untimely death. The death of the young actor, Sushant Singh Rajput, has provoked precisely this kind of a cacophony, with video-recorded accusations, excited tweets and sullen defences — and the strident reporting of every step by some sections of the media. This was bad enough, but the ugliest part of the exercise was the gradual homing in of attention on one individual, Rhea Chakraborty, with whom the late actor was reported to have had a close relationship. The viciousness of the sexist — and origin-based — attacks on her on social media suggests that a scapegoat was needed to blame for the actor’s death. The actor’s father must have had reasons for filing a first information report against Ms Chakraborty, but that is matter for police investigation and the law. The inquiries have just begun, and nothing has gone to court as yet; there is no question of guilt or innocence till the processes are complete. Yet Ms Chakraborty is being publicly called out as culpable, not just through the irresponsible viciousness of social media, but through the rhetoric and emphasis of certain other sections of the media as well. This is almost judgment by media. It is not novel in India: the Aarushi Talwar murder case provided an example of such judgment by media. There are many others. The media in a democratic country have the overwhelmingly important role of pointing out wrongs and injustices, evidence of corruption, failures of the administration and in the investigation of crimes. Building up villains in an unproven case is not their job. At a time when people are struggling with multiple crises, it is almost as though the focus on the case is providing a distraction. This is not just a matter of taste; it is an alarming failure of ethics. A civilized approach to a tragedy cannot be too difficult to achieve.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-167
10-08-2020||Opinion||Cloudy skies: RBI rate-reduction cycle||The policymakers at the Reserve Bank of India hit the pause button at their monetary policy review last week, choosing to hold interest rates after a sustained, staccato-like 250 basis point cut in the policy-setting repo rate since February 2019. It is hard to say whether the central bank will resume its rate-reduction cycle when it meets again before its next announcement due on October 1. It will want to wait for commercial banks to play catch up. Banks have found ways to wriggle out of the pressure to slash lending rates in tandem with the repo. Perhaps with good reason. If 40 per cent of the loan book is virtually directed lending through the grab-all concept of priority sector lending imbued with heightened risks of default and the moral hazard question, can anyone blame banks for forcing creditworthy borrowers to fork out more than they normally would need to? Much will also depend on how quickly the fog on government’s statistics dissipates, and how the cost pressures start to build up in an economy that continues to wilt under the sledgehammer of the Narendra Modi government’s capricious announcements in a foolhardy quest for self-reliance. When the spirit of hyper nationalism undermines pragmatism in the realm of business suffused with the delusion of doing good for the country, disaster must lurk round the corner. This has only magnified the risks of an uncertain future and the Mint Street wonks are not ready to play a game of popgun Russian roulette with forecasts. The central bank has wisely chosen to steer clear of numerical predictions although it does believe — like the International Monetary Fund and other luminous authorities — that India’s growth rate will be negative this year. It also believes that inflation, which is currently riding above the 6 per cent ceiling set in mandate for monetary policy-making, is not going down in a hurry; it expects inflation to taper off in the second half of the year because of base effects. Most pundits now believe that the RBI will cut rates by at least another 50 basis points this fiscal even as Mr Modi’s government tries to shrug off its responsibility of kickstarting the economy with a strong stimulus package. The shambolic exercise in May has done nothing to move the needle. The five-year monetary policy mandate runs out in March next year. Urjit Patel, who fought hard when he was Raghuram Rajan’s deputy, must be thanked for changing the mindsets within the establishment in early 2014 and accept the concept of an inflation anchor to policy formulation. The broad 2 to 6 per cent range for consumer price inflation has since acquired legislative backing. The RBI has a vague mandate to spur growth too but with no numerical targets or metrics set on that count. Later this year, discussions will begin on a new template. More demons could emerge from that exercise than a flailing Mint Street can deal with. Mr Modi can then focus on his real mission: persuade the nation to clang pots and pans and pray for growth.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-167
10-08-2020||Opinion||Help at hand: Development assistance||For decades, the idea of development aid has been debated and marred by controversies. The current pandemic has further divided the conversation, opening up a Pandora’s box, overhauling the meaning attributed to development aid. First, the word, aid, is considered problematic and faulty as it seems stuck in a time warp. Highlighting the international governance of the 20th century, aid reflects the domination of a handful of rich countries, particularly from the Western world who take precedence in decision-making. Cut to the 21st century where the governance landscape is undergoing a change with the emergence of democratic values, where small and poor countries hold the potential to bring a decisive change in the system, where the rise of the South is believed to be the new normal, where civil society has moved away from the periphery to the centre, and aid has a new dimension added to it. The words, cooperation or assistance or even partnership, appear more suitable now. The journey from aid to cooperation has been nothing short of difficult. Interestingly, in these times of the coronavirus, those countries that have traditionally been categorized as middle-income countries are now taking centre stage by offering assistance to the more advanced countries. For example, China shipped essential health supplies, including respirators and protective suits to Italy and Spain earlier this year. This trend, or more specifically, the rise of the South is now being gradually considered as the new normal. In fact, the arrival of ‘emerging’ donors is slowly shaking up the international development architecture for the better. In this context, India has invariably remained at the forefront by providing development assistance to countries in its immediate neighbourhood and beyond even before it achieved independence. For example, cooperation on humanitarian grounds has been continuously extended by New Delhi to countries affected by disaster, especially to Mozambique, Nicaragua, Libya and Myanmar.New opportunity Experts stress how development assistance has been an integral part of India’s foreign policy even before Covid-19 arrived on the scene whereby the meaning of development is aligned more with the global good than charity. It is believed that the coronavirus is likely to open up a world of opportunities for India, spurring a wave of international cooperation. The post-Covid-19 scenario carries the potential of shouldering the weight of multi-alignments between different actors as development cooperation spearheaded by the South will gradually take the spotlight. Even though it is too early to predict how the states might behave in the coming months, it would not be completely wrong to anticipate that the trade rules in the post-Covid-19 world will be slightly altered. Since 2013, Chinese investments in the Belt and Road Initiative-affiliated nations have been viewed with suspicion. It has also been noticed that several of these developing countries have fallen into a debt trap by taking on loans which they find difficult to repay. Given the hostility China has been facing owing to the origin of the deadly virus, many countries will either be wary or sceptical of welcoming investments from Beijing. This opens up a new realm for New Delhi’s development cooperation initiatives in South Asia. This borderless crisis faced by the international community today asserts the fact that no country can fight this pandemic in isolation. Emerging new trends in the arena of development cooperation increasingly suggest that an amalgamation of both developing and developed countries could bring about sustainability. Countries which cooperate and contribute financially can also receive funding since nation states at different trajectories of development need support. The coronavirus pandemic has taught us that global solidarity is not just philanthropy but it is fundamental to our very existence.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-167
10-08-2020||Opinion||A flawed vision||For some reason, reports on India’s ‘tiger numbers’ get a lot of people excited. This was the case on July 28, 2020 when a report on the country’s tiger numbers from 2018 was released accompanied by profuse self-laudatory statements. The fact is there is nothing new in this report because the same results were released by the prime minister a year earlier. Perhaps everyone was bedazzled by the beautiful tiger photos and glossy production values, which are, of course, new. Several scientists, including this author, who have been working on this topic for years, have presented robust critiques of India’s tiger surveys. They clearly demonstrate their multiple flaws. And the consequent invalidity of the results. These critiques have been published in scientific journals as well as in the popular media. They have pointed out the total opacity of these government tiger surveys with regard to data access, field methods, details of sampling effort, as well as about the statistical models employed. Even amateur naturalists and journalists have pointed out cases of errors in individual identification of tigers in the photographic captures and other related problems. Clearly there is no awareness in the upper echelons of the ministry of environment, forest and climate change that the ‘results’ they have branded as the ‘gold standard’ is the same old wine in a new bottle. Here is my attempt to demystify these camera-trap-based tiger surveys for the readers. Obviously we all need to know whether the massive national efforts at conserving tigers are succeeding or failing. Major investments have been made, and even lives lost by forestry staff and public in this endeavour over the past 50 years. However, counting wild animals is a technically difficult enterprise. This is particularly true of tigers whose potential habitat in India covers over 300,000 square kilometres of rugged forests. Their low population densities and elusive nature indeed posed many challenges when I began trying to estimate their numbers using camera traps in 1991. However, if we focus on only tiger population ‘sources’ which are at reasonable densities that produce surplus tigers that disperse into the wider ‘sink’ forest landscapes, the task becomes easier because these source populations cover only 30,000-45,000 square kilometres (10-15 per cent) of the potential habitat. This is the area in which 80-90 per cent of wild tigers occur. The most reliable method for estimating tiger densities (number of tigers/100 sq.km) and numbers is the ‘Photographic Capture-Recapture Sampling’. Automated camera traps are used to unambiguously identify each individual tiger from their unique body markings. If photos are only of one flank of the tiger, or are unclear for multiple other reasons, the individual identity itself becomes uncertain and further analyses dubious. An even bigger challenge is that only some unknown proportion of tigers will be photographed. A statistical modelling approach of ‘capture-recapture sampling’, if used correctly, can estimate what proportion of tigers has been caught in addition to getting a count of identified tigers. Using this additional information, the total number of tigers in that source population, including those missed by the cameras, can be estimated. However, if rigorous sampling protocols are ignored, the entire exercise becomes worthless. The camera trapper is left with only pretty pictures of tigers and anecdotes, but not scientific results. Unfortunately, with a few exceptions, most of the camera trapping conducted under the present government monopoly has been far too logistically complex, technically deficient and overly expensive to boot. These tiger surveys have lacked necessary rigour both in their field and analytical methods right from their beginning in 2005. The institutional problems such as ‘data fudging’ and scientific issues such as the lack of data transparency cannot be fully elaborated in this brief column. However, a few key issues are critical. Incorrect identification of individual tigers is a problem, which has been highlighted many times by amateur naturalists as well as by scientists. Without addressing this problem, many tigers will continue to be counted multiple times. A linked problem is of linking each tiger photo with its exact time and place of capture. In 2009, I was involved with the MoEF in setting up an elaborate, detailed protocol that comprehensively laid out how photographic and ancillary data should be recorded in the field, gathered, collated and labelled to ensure that correct identifications and capture histories are generated. These protocols, put on the National Tiger Conservation Authority website, apparently, have not even been fully understood by those who are conducting surveys in the field. As a result, incorrect tiger identities with multiplication of tigers, mixing up of capture locations and timings and even capture seasons are commonplace in the raw tiger survey data. And none of this information is ever made public because the raw data in the form of photos, ancillary information and field protocols are locked up as if they hold India’s military secrets. Even 15 years after the first surveys were conducted in 2005, not even qualified scientists are permitted to examine these data, gathered at a cost of over Rs 100 crore to India’s taxpayers. A fundamental requirement of Photographic Capture-Recapture Sampling is to ensure that the tiger population from which the sample of individual tigers is drawn remains relatively unchanged during sampling. This assumption, known as ‘population closure’, is a critical one because if it is violated the number of individual tigers caught will continue to accumulate, without the tiger losses being unaccounted for. The net result is to continually inflate the estimated tiger numbers. Rigorous studies try their best to analyse capture data from a reasonably short ‘closed period’ of 30-60 days to ensure that the effect of mortalities, recruitments and movements of individuals is minimized. However, virtually all the government surveys conducted so far appear to have violated the critical closure assumption. Sometimes, photos obtained over months or years are pooled to create the sample ‘data’, which will yield overestimates. No report contains information on dates and locations of the camera trap surveys. The third fundamental problem is the frequency at which individual tiger populations are being monitored. Thriving, healthy tiger populations have high reproduction rates (a female produces about 15 cubs in her lifetime), and high mortality rates of 15-20 per cent per year. To track the fate of a population accurately, both ‘recruitments’ (number of tigers added) and losses have to be estimated. This needs to be done annually, not once in four years if the results are to be meaningful. This is indeed possible, but only if data from the shorter closed period surveys mentioned above can be integrated, over multiple years, using what are called ‘Open Capture-Recapture’ models. Using this approach in a research project extending over 15 years, my colleagues and I have estimated tiger densities, numbers, recruitments and losses for each year in several key populations in India and Thailand. However, the very manner in which the National Tiger Estimation is conducted cannot generate this kind of useful, high-quality data. The results in glossy reports are silent on vital demographic parameters that should have been generated if surveys were properly conducted. In 2017, my long-term collaborator, James Nichols, and I edited a Springer Monograph titled Methods for Monitoring Tiger and Prey Populations in which 31 scientists have presented these useful alternative approaches to tiger monitoring. There have been no takers within India’s tiger establishment for these ideas. The present government makes a case that it has radically overhauled governance in other fields, such as direct transfers or resources to beneficiaries, agriculture sector reforms and so on. However, the fact remains that as far as the monitoring of our national animal is considered, it is continuing the same sloppy, expensive and invalid methods that were initiated by the earlier regime in 2005 based on recommendations of the Tiger Task Force report under the former prime minister, Manmohan Singh. It is not a surprise to me that the same bureaucratic institutions and individuals, who created this self-serving National Tiger Estimation approach in 2005, have continued to run the same show to this day. Therefore, I for one am not holding my breath for the next tiger survey due in 2022. It will be a new bottle, but the wine will be even older.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-167
