11-08-2020||Opinion||DGCA bars use of wide-body aircraft at Kozhikode||The DGCA has barred the operation of wide-body aircraft at Kozhikode airport this monsoon "out of abundant caution", a senior official said, adding that the aviation regulator will conduct a special audit of airports that receive heavy rains. The decision was taken four days after a narrow-body B737 aircraft of Air India Express with 190 people on board overshot the runway and crashed at the Kozhikode airport amid downpour.
Asked about the duration of the ban, the DGCA official said, "No date has been fixed. We will wait for the monsoon to get over and as a means of abundant caution we are doing it." Wide-body aircraft like B747 and A350 have a bigger fuel tank and can therefore travel longer distances in comparison to narrow-body aircraft like B737 and A320. A wide-body aircraft also needs a longer runway length to take off or land. The table top runway 10 of the Kozhikode airport is approximately 2,700 metres long. Wide-body aircraft operations were permitted at this airport from 2019. The senior official of the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) said, "The special audit will be done at airports like Mumbai and Chennai that are affected by heavy rains annually." The Airports Authority of India (AAI) manages more than 100 airports in the country, including the one in Kozhikode. However, major airports like Delhi, Mumbai, Bengaluru and Hyderabad are managed by private companies. The Air India Express flight from Dubai overshot the tabletop runway on Friday night, fell into a valley 35 feet below and broke into pieces, killing 18 people, including both the pilots. The airline on Tuesday said 74 passengers injured in the plane crash in Kozhikode have been discharged from hospitals after "obtaining complete fitness". A day after the crash, Congress MP Manickam Tagore had tweeted that the AAI and the DGCA "seem to have ignored" the proposal for using Engineered Material Arrestor System (EMAS) technology to ensure the safety of Kozhikode airport's tabletop runway. The AAI works under the Civil Aviation Ministry. The EMAS is a unique surface of special materials that is built at the end of the runway to stop the aircraft in its tracks if it has overshot the area while landing. Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri said on Monday that the Kozhikode airport is equipped with Runway End Safety Area (RESA) as per the safety guidelines of the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO). He said the provision of EMAS is not mandatory in a civil airport as per the ICAO guidelines. Puri said EMAS provides safety benefits if standard RESA length is not available at the airport or if RESA cannot be provided at the airport due to some constraints. "Provision of EMAS at Mangalore and Kozhikode were examined by AAI in consultation with DGCA, subsequent to the Air India Express accident at Mangalore in 2010. Tabletop runways at both these airports are accordingly provided with RESA of 240 metres and 90 metres in compliance to DGCA directive," Puri said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-166
11-08-2020||Opinion||Flawed notion: Quantifying happiness||Sir — A recent study — it surprisingly asked just two questions to 1,155 respondents — found that 89 per cent of people think that happiness can be controlled. But the idea of quantifying happiness is flawed, as it varies from one person to another and is dependent on several factors. Moreover, such findings can invalidate the sufferings of people, many of whom struggle to simply get through the day.Ananya Chakraborty,New Delhi Dire straits Sir — The conversation between Rahul Gandhi and the Nobel laureate, Muhammad Yunus, on the plight of migrant workers in the aftermath of the nationwide lockdown that was imposed as a result of the outbreak of Covid-19 was eye-opening (“An epiphany”, Aug 6). Millions of migrant workers, who had always been treated like a silent cog in the wheel of the urban economy, could no longer be ignored as their miserable conditions were laid bare to all. While the early five-year plans in post-Independence India worked towards the betterment of the rural economy, soon the government focused on the growth of the urban sector. The decline of the rural economy led to the mass migration of labour to the urban centres which eventually led to rampant exploitation. Although the Left rallied for the rights of the workers in the informal sector, its fall from power meant that it could only succeed for a short while. The loss of the socialist ideals envisioned for an independent India has had devastating effects on the national fabric of our country. With the waning of the bargaining powers of labour unions around the world and the large scale contraction of jobs as a result of technological progress, there is an urgent need for governments to address the dire condition of the working class population. In case they fail to do so, the International Labour Organization must hold administrations accountable and intervene if necessary. R. Narayanan,Navi Mumbai Sir — Muhammad Yunus is right to point out that it would be a grave mistake to return to the pre-Covid economic setup. The pandemic has laid bare the inadequacies of a system that privileges certain sections of people over others. Governments must take this opportunity to establish a fair economic order. Rohan Datta,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-166
11-08-2020||Opinion||Mind the gap: A flawed Kashmir policy||Vox populi — the voice of the people — should ideally be the kernel in the fruit of democracy. A polity sans the political agency of the people is thus the very antithesis of democracy. It is being argued that the appointment of Manoj Sinha as the new lieutenant-governor signals a political outreach on the part of the Narendra Modi government to Kashmir’s people and political parties. Mr Sinha is a seasoned politician; he replaces a bureaucrat who has not exactly distinguished himself when it comes to ushering in normalcy in this restive Union territory. But it takes two to engage in constructive political dialogue. Kashmir’s political system is in tatters. Some of its principal leaders remain in detention. Mehbooba Mufti of the Peoples Democratic Party, with which the Bharatiya Janata Party shared power briefly, is the most prominent example. Others — the National Conference’s Omar Abdullah — may have been released from detention but remain enfeebled politically. The BJP may be itching to fill the political vacuum but the lack of local political representation is proving to be ominous. Militancy is on the rise. The people remain anxious about the Centre’s motives. The anxiety is not unwarranted. The principle of proportional representation seems to have been undermined in the administration with Muslims and residents of the Valley being overlooked for key posts. There is also concern that the redrawing of assembly seats may lead to a disproportionate representation from Hindu-dominated Jammu. Meanwhile, deliberations continue over the restoration of high-speed internet, a basic entitlement in the rest of India. India’s highest court has expressed its dismay over the delay. Strikingly, Indians in other parts of the country remain blasé about the everyday challenges faced by their brethren in Kashmir. The cumulative result has been the erosion of the credibility of Mr Modi’s dispensation. The prime minister seems to be ignoring two fundamental aspects in his flawed Kashmir policy. The restoration of the people’s confidence in New Delhi is of paramount importance. But such a renewal is predicated upon the creation of a level turf of engagement between the Centre and Kashmir’s political representatives. The other, equally important, missing element concerns the dignity of Kashmir. Dismantling statehood in the name of integration was a cynical blow not only to Kashmir’s political framework but also to the self-respect of the people. The BJP has its task cut out when it comes to re-establishing that trust. The deficit will widen if Mr Modi prioritizes electoral and ideological compulsions over the welfare of and equitable representation from Kashmir. Changing lieutenant-governors periodically is not the answer to Kashmir’s growing alienation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-166
11-08-2020||Opinion||Breezy ride: Bicycle culture in India||A colleague who stays a few kilometres away from office has bought a bicycle, and is now cycling tens of kilometres within and without Calcutta regularly for all sorts of activities. Many people are now discovering freedom on two wheels. In his book, Everyday Technology: Machines and the Making of India’s Modernity, the historian, David Arnold, argued that the nation entered the ‘cycle age’ by the 1950s. But the bicycle culture in India was initiated by Englishmen and it became quite popular among Indians. The arrival of automobiles and class consciousness detracted colonial officials from bicycles, while its popularity among ordinary Indians increased steadily, with the added stimulus of affordability with the establishment of local companies. In his book, Arnold illustrates how small-scale technology such as bicycles, rice mills, sewing machines and typewriters became integral to new ways of thinking about class, race, and gender, as well as to the politics of colonial rule and Indian nationhood. Seven decades on, is a world on two wheels going to be the new normal in a pandemic-hit world? People living in and around cities are reluctant to use public transport, and governments worldwide are also encouraging bicycles as a mode of transportation. In a joint article Arnold and Erich DeWald analysed the role of bicycles in empowerment in colonial India. While the car is the symbol of modernization, the bicycle may be regarded as its modern antithesis. It started off as an identifiably foreign import and served as a symbol of upward mobility in its initial days in the country. The rise of automobiles, however, has marginalized bicycles. Bicyclists in Indian cities thereafter are mostly ‘captive users’, who use it because of affordability.Pedalling up A 2016 survey showed that the poorest 20 per cent households accounted for a majority of the bicycles in the country. Unfortunately, social attitude to non-motorized vehicles is, in general, not positive — bicycles have been associated with the urban poor in the country for decades now. Even in the late Seventies, an overwhelming majority of cyclists in cities like Delhi, Jaipur and Hyderabad were from the lowest income groups and the unskilled category. A 2013 study argued that the use of non-motorized transport in the country has been declining with the increase in income levels. But the socio-economic pattern of bicyclists in the country is going to change. Covid-19 has brought a rare opportunity for a ‘bicycle revolution’ as well. Arnold believes that bicycles also have caste connotations. In the early days, there were objections to Dalits riding bicycles because this was thought to be an assumption of status that they were not entitled to. Traces of such social stigma still persist. Also, traditionally in the Indian context, bicycles had gender connotations. Unlike sewing machines, bicycle names remain grossly masculine — makes like Hercules or Atlas or even Robin Hood became popular in India. There is alarming gender disparity among Indian bicyclists. Arnold mentions that small things can be “of primary, even paramount, importance when it comes to daily lives and the everyday objects with which people surround themselves”, and emphasizes “the centrality of the machine and of technology generally in Indian thinking about past, present, and future”. Clearly, technology like the bicycle evolved as a metaphor for differentiation in Indian society, and assumed its own values and meanings in the local context and significantly altered social, economic and cultural equations among Indians. A ‘bicycle revolution’ will thus not only increase the quantum of bike-users in major cities, but also drastically change the socio-economic and demographic distribution of the cyclists. Will bicycles in their new avatar become a symbol of status and upward mobility once again?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-166
11-08-2020||Opinion||A critical look at NEP-2020||The National Education Policy-2020 received cabinet approval on July 29. In the last six months, education has been reshaped in India and the world. Modes of teaching and learning resources have been redesigned for online and distance education. NEP-2020 also comes at a time when almost 183 nations are expected to feel the heat of a reducing GDP. NEP-2020 aspires to combine traditional knowledge with modern thinking and introduces vocational education from elementary schools. It emphasizes on technology in education and attempts to transform education planning, teaching and learning assessment. But a large number of students do not have access to such technology and gadgets. How would these excluded students benefit from the new modes of learning? Rising poverty and job losses would impact the continuity of education for a large number of students. Some budgetary commitments have been highlighted for online education. But they might not be enough to offer devices to the students or building e-infrastructure in rural areas. Research has revealed a significant digital divide at the university and school levels. The Shiksha Mantralaya needs to come up with ways of tackling the digital divide and the gender iniquities within digital technology. The policy talks of establishing a National Education Technology Forum to advance digital learning and e-content. The latter will be created in eight regional languages. This is a good move. But a road map will be needed to align graduates in regional languages with job opportunities. ‘School readiness’ has been prioritized as the foundation of learning. But neither anganwadi centres nor primary schools grant the liberty to try new ways of learning. How can school readiness be achieved without infrastructural transformation, procedural modifications and resource allocation? NEP-2020 plans to remodel higher education in India and establish reputed universities. India has more than 800 universities and 39,000 colleges. Self-financed courses have also surged. Universities and colleges have witnessed constant fee hike. But the quality of education imparted remains a source of concern. The education sector is expected to get 6 per cent of the GDP. The question is how would the Centre raise the funds amidst an economic crisis? Will it bear the brunt of the expenditure? Or will the states be asked to take on the burden? A 2 per cent education cess was introduced by the Centre in 2004 to generate additional resources for education. Will the educational cess be a part of the primary budget or will it be an additional tax as conceptualized in the beginning? How many existing Indian universities are equipped to compete with universities of global repute? This data may be used as a baseline while working on the plan of action. Earlier education policies of 1968 and 1986 tell us that it takes years to translate policy ideas into action. What happened to the financial commitments to implement the Right to Education Act? After a decade, roughly 10 per cent of schools meet the RTE norms. NEP-2020 shows concern about teachers’ credibility. Innumerable teaching posts are vacant. Educational institutions lack benches, blackboards, well-equipped libraries and so on. A substantial proportion of college teaching is done by ad hoc teachers. Is it possible to make a long-term, sustainable plan with scanty resources? The NEP aims to create a knowledge economy. A knowledge-based economy requires its pupils to develop a combination of skills and prioritizes scientific temperament to enhance employment opportunities. However, with growing economic hardship and educational expenses, the education of the girl child could be considered a ‘luxury’ and children with disabilities may not be able to continue with formal learning. The policy has opened the doors for foreign universities to have campuses in India. Will they provide reservation to economically poor students? Can NEP-2020 motivate students to study in India instead of going abroad? It is understood that classrooms and learning processes won’t be the same in a post-corona world. A budgetary provision is a must to address the challenges that students are going to face in the coming months. Common entrance exams for universities, reforms in the school examination system and mother-tongue-based primary education are welcoming steps. But how would the quality of secondary education be enhanced? The policy recommends the discontinuation of MPhil course. What will happen to the students pursuing this degree? Corruption in the education sector and the lack of financial resources are major concerns for policy implementation. We must have an outstanding teacher preparation and recruitment system as well as teacher training institutes. The recognition of merit would be the key to reconstruct Indian education. Often, merit loses to nepotism. The future of NEP-2020 depends on the political will and the system to welcome ‘quality’ human resources.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-166
11-08-2020||Opinion||City on wheels||Travelling to Bombay as a child, the train pulling into the vaulted Victoria Terminus was pretty similar to pulling into Howrah Station; as in Calcutta, the porters were Bihari or from Uttar Pradesh, their hustle, bustle and bargaining the same, the bookstalls and food kiosks in the station were also familiar. One of the first markers that one had arrived in a very different city was when we climbed into the Fiat taxi that would take us from VT to my aunt’s place near Kemp's Corner. Unlike Calcutta, the taxi rank was organized and no-nonsense, without any of our eastern city’s sense of chaos: you had to move quickly to stuff your luggage into the vehicle and get going; no one was honking from behind but you could feel the tension in the porters and the taxi driver. As opposed to Calcutta’s kaali-peeli Ambassador taxis, these yellow-black Fiats had no ample space welcoming you; you and your luggage were efficiently stuffed into every nook and cranny of the little car, the doors shutting on you giving off a very different sound, a kind of exact but tinny rattle, which was very different from the Amby doors’ heavy thunk of ancient metal locking into place. The speed with which the little creature ejected itself from the taxi rank and hurtled into traffic was also in marked contrast to the lugubrious, first-gear waddling of an Ambassador as it decided whether to become fully un-stationary. Within minutes, we’d be on Marine Drive. Whizzing by on our left would be the brown-green-blue sea and beyond it the whole planet. Flashing by on our right would be art deco apartments that cost an astronomical arm and a leg. In a speeding Ambassador, you were thrown about a bit, loose goods in the hold of a large ship; in a Bombay Fiat you were part of a tightly packed rocket heading arrow straight. Traffic lights in Bombay would bring the rocket to a sharp stop, very different from the Calcutta taxi meandering to an incontinent pause. On the rare occasion a Bombay policeman stopped a taxi for a traffic violation, there was no debate or discussion between cop and driver; there was no possibility of any bargaining or bribing — the challan was delivered, the driver drove on. It wasn’t that there was no overtaking; after all, Bombay, at its core, was about aggressive overtaking, but it had to be done within a set of strictly followed rules. Released from the red light or a funny-looking ‘Mama’ in blue shorts and white shirt, the driver would surge ahead in a burst of whining speed, the nasal horn emitting its alien beep, and the sea air with its fishy sting would again be in our noses and hair. Reaching the destination, the luggage would be unloaded by the driver with an urgency unchanged from the taxi rank, the metered money taken without fuss, and then he would be off, back onto the streets where time was as jealously husbanded as gold. At some point in the early 70s, the shape and smell of the Fiat taxis changed, but not the economical efficiency of each ride and transaction. Unlike Calcutta, there was never any khit-pitt about fares or destination — the Fiat (now branded Padmini, a name which no one adopted), in its kaali-peeli livery, would go where you asked it to go and the fare was strictly according to the meter and whatever the taxiwalla’s official fare-chart threw up. For a Calcuttan, the speed and the efficiency of a taxi ride in Bombay remained mind-boggling. For a Kolkataiya in his late teens or early twenties, equally startling was the fact that you could do many things in the back seat with another mutually desirous person and, forget taking his eyes off the road, the driver wouldn’t even blink — he wasn’t concerned about peeping at your amorousness — he was only interested in making his fare. As a child, I was both thrilled and daunted by the Bombay taxis. As I grew up and spent time in Bombay as a young working adult, I began to appreciate them as one of the services that best represented the peculiar egalitarianisms of a can-do city. As Calcutta fell (further) apart in the late 70s and 80s, so did our taxi services. The fiddled meters, the squabbling about where a driver would go or not go, the sheer dilapidation of the vehicles and their interiors, the dangerous rusted bits that could seriously damage you as you got in and out of a taxi — all of these signified a collapse of the basic idea of a city. Bombay, on the other hand, continued to zoom straight ahead with shiny cosmopolitan speed. I still remember the first time I saw a Bombay taxi-driver bribe a Bombay cop. It was in the late 80s and we were stopped near the High Court for leaving a red light early. The policeman leaned into the window and said something. The driver reached into the top pocket of his safari suit uniform. Hand curved to meet hand, and small currency was transferred from one pocket to another. In a couple of years, we would start witnessing the regression of a great metropolis into a narrow-minded, slit-eyed, suspicious frown of a small town. By 1990, thuggish young men were thumping around on their motorcycles, waving saffron flags with stencilled tiger faces, shouting about Ram temple and Marathi manoos. In a few years, their cynical overlord had won the elections and placed his minions and puppets in charge of Maharashtra and Bombay. The Fiat-Padmini taxis still ran efficiently, their interiors now souped up with coloured lights and over-stuffed seats, their rear windshields proclaiming their home bases in the far-flung suburbs to filter passengers in the evening. However, the city that had throbbed for decades with a certain enviable cosmopolitan mix was now on its way to being shrink-wrapped in a toxic orange mindset. Across the nearly thirty years that have followed, a lot of things have happened. We in Calcutta have been dealing with our own thuggish young men carrying flags in all sorts of colours, even as our own taxis have been denuded and made almost defunct. Sections of our Republic have been hollowed out and put into the junkyard, whether permanently or temporarily remains to be seen. As the last of the Fiat-Padminis are decommissioned this year, Bombay is in yet a different place now, its inherent energy having sloughed off some of the toxic shrink-wrap but still very different from the city of possibilities it was in the 60s and 70s.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-166
11-08-2020||Opinion||Chief cause: Yogi or Chief Minister?||The chief minister of Uttar Pradesh, Yogi Adityanath, cannot be faulted for forgetting his duty. That consists of paying lip-service to the premise behind the chief minister’s chair in a secular country. When asked after the founding ceremony of the Ram Mandir whether he would be present at the inauguration of the mosque that the Supreme Court has ordered to be built in Ayodhya after the Babri Masjid demolition, he reportedly said that as chief minister he had no issue with any community or religion. Having made this pronouncement, he proceeded to hedge it with multiple speculations and declarations of his layered identity. He was not a petitioner or respondent — how is that relevant? — and he would not be invited anyway, plus if invited as a yogi he would not go — why would a chief minister be invited as a yogi? — and, most notably, as a Hindu he would not go because he was free to follow the way of worship of his own religion. That is a lot of excuses. Although the obvious question here is whether he is a chief minister first or a Hindu and a yogi first, and many have asked this not too kindly, there is also a greater confusion. Does Mr Adityanath’s way of worship forbid attendance at the holy places of other faiths? Such a claim would be rejected by many who share this religion, and by numbers of thinkers and leaders who have moulded the practice of the faith. The closed mind is special, if not to Mr Adityanath alone then to the champions of Hindutva in general. That lies at the basis of the divisiveness that is tearing apart the secular fabric of the country. In telling irony, the Indo-Islamic Cultural Foundation has decided to invite the chief minister not for the inauguration of mosque-building alone, but for the simultaneous opening of public utility facilities including a community kitchen, a hospital and a research centre for Indo-Islamic studies on the same premises. The chief minister would be expected to be present at the inauguration of public welfare institutions. There is a message inhering in this programme. Perhaps Mr Adityanath will take note.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-166
