12-08-2020||Opinion||Give peace a chance: 75 years of Nagasaki bombing||Sir — The city of Nagasaki in Japan recently observed the 75th anniversary of the atomic bombing. Commemorating such sombre occasions serves to remind mankind of the extent of the destruction that hatred among nations can cause. However, one doubts if people ever take lessons from history. Most world leaders seem oblivious to the impact of war and enmity. Until recently, the premiers of the United States of America and North Korea were threatening each other with nuclear war. Research also shows that there has been a spike in the global arms trade of late. Will the world ever give peace a chance? Sumitra Roy,Calcutta Hollow claims Sir — In the article, “Hour of triumph” (Aug 6), Swapan Dasgupta echoes the jubilance of the supporters of Hindutva in Ayodhya and elsewhere on the day that the bhoomi pujan for the Ram temple was performed. While the prime minister, Narendra Modi, compared the movement for the temple to the freedom struggle, social media were awash with exclamations of victory. However, the real questions are these: whose victory does this event represent and what improvement does it bring to their living conditions? India has been beset with difficulties throughout the renewed reign of the Bharatiya Janata Party. To cite examples such as the decreasing freedom of speech, increase in unemployment, the undermining of the rights of women and children and the blatant disregard for other constitutional liberties is to do nothing but scratch the surface. At present, the country is struggling to deal with the myriad effects of the coronavirus crisis. The current government at the Centre has repeatedly shown itself to be incapable of achieving any real victory against the true adversaries of the people of India, be it inequality in the spheres of healthcare and education or gender discrimination. The contribution of leaders of the ruling party to the management of the pandemic and its allied crises has been a spectrum of unscientific suggestions, including the consumption of gau mutra. To claim a victory under such circumstances is an insult to the people. Even autonomous institutions seem to be failing to stand up to the powers that be. The common people should begin to fight for their rights before it is too late. Poulami Somanya Ganguly,Amsterdam Sir— Swapan Dasgupta may well view the bhoomi pujan ceremony at Ayodhya last week as a “Hindu victory”, but it is, in reality, a victory for the proponents of Hindutva who exercise muscle power to subjugate minority communities in the country — Muslims in particular — and desire to accomplish this by establishing a ‘Hindu rashtra’. Just like Muslims, Christians, Buddhists, Parsis, tribal communities and atheists, innumerable members of the Hindu community  in India — especially those outside the ‘Hindi belt’ — do not worship Rama as a deity. In their eyes, Rama is an epic hero, like Yudhisthira or Arjuna. There are also many Hindus who might believe in the divinity of Rama, but are vehemently opposed to the insidious exploitation of his name for the sake of furthering communal politics or the demolition of a shrine that is sacred to believers of another religion. Therefore, it is not logical for either the Indian prime minister to brand all 1.3 billion Indians as “Ram-mayas” or for Dasgupta to claim the bhoomi pujan as a victory for ‘Hindus’. What Indians — and the many Hindus among them — truly believe in instead are values such as secularism, fraternity and equality. Calling the Ram temple project a “negotiated settlement within the parameters of the Constitution” or hailing it as a “judicial victory” cannot hide the fact that the judgment was passed in view of the “belief of the Hindus”. Further, taunting the so-called “Nehruvian consensus” is equivalent to undermining the value of religious harmony and acceptance as well as respect towards the diversity that is such an intricate part of our national fabric. Kajal Chatterjee,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-165
12-08-2020||Opinion||Family firm: Sri Lanka and the Rajapaksas||Dynastic politics may be anathema to those who run New India. But a dynasty seems to have cemented its place beyond India’s southern borders. The Sri Lanka People’s Freedom Alliance — under the leadership of the two brothers, Mahinda Rajapaksa and Gotabaya Rajapaksa — has been given a decisive mandate by the people in the recent parliamentary elections. Mahinda Rajapaksa, whose Sri Lanka Podujana Peramuna holds a large stake in the SLPFA, has been sworn in as prime minister — his brother helms the presidentship — after the SLPP decimated its opponents to win two-thirds of the allotted seats. Such was the SLPP’s dominance that the United National Party — the former prime minister, Ranil Wickremesinghe, led it — won a solitary seat, while the Samagi Jana Balawegaya, which split from the UNP, fared  better than its rival with Sajith Premadasa in command. Even the footprint of the Tamil National Alliance has shrunk demonstrably. The Rajapaksas’ electoral dominance can be explained by two factors. Their pandering to ethno-religious sentiments proved irresistible to a people scarred by the devastating Easter Sunday attacks that were blamed on Islamist forces. The Opposition’s challenge, ironically, was undermined by its own lieutenants. The differences between Mr Wickremesinghe and Mr Premadasa led to a split in the UNP. As prime minister, Mr Wickremesinghe’s squabbles with the then president led to policy paralysis and, allegedly, holes in the security network; this charge seems to have stuck. But a democratic election need not always serve the cause of democracy. Sri Lanka may be a case in point. The Rajapaksas are expected to pursue their majoritarian agenda, which might enfeeble the interests and rights of minorities. Muslims and Tamils thus have cause for concern. The future of the 19th Amendment — it had reduced the executive powers of the president — now looks bleak. This implies that the centralization of power — a long spell of power by one man — cannot be ruled out: this does not augur well for a democracy. But the brothers are expected to face other, stiff challenges. The economy, battered by the pandemic, will be a cause for concern. The World Bank has estimated a contraction of three per cent of the island’s economy. The burden of foreign debt on Sri Lanka is considerably high. Then, there is the geo-political challenge. Balancing China’s aggressive wooing with an old partnership with India could prove to be tricky business.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-165
12-08-2020||Opinion||Lost Paths:  NEP 2020 & institutional autonomy ||The middle path is a comfortable idea; the comfort depends on the subject to which it relates. The prime minister has marked a ‘middle path’ between government control and the sense of entitlement of higher academic institutions at the Conclave on Transformational Reforms in Higher Education under the National Education Policy. ‘Freedom’, which, in his reported remarks, seems identified with the autonomy of educational institutions, will depend on quality. The better the educational outcomes the more autonomy the institution will be given. The institutions will have to ‘earn’ autonomy. So, will representatives of the government judge quality? This is the same government under which the University Grants Commission declared last year that in order to ensure that ‘national interest’ has priority, institutions should have a ‘shelf of topics’ on which research will be conducted. But education is the pursuit of excellence; it can accommodate no middle path. For that, higher educational institutions need to be empowered — that bogey word — to choose the variety and quality of education they aspire to, the mix of students they wish for, their methods of training and assessment — in short, to be able to mould institutions according to their academic and social visions without violating the laws of the land. Here autonomy is not wild freedom that must be reined in by the government, neither is it a reward from the rulers for doing well; it is, instead, a discipline unique to the encouragement of learning and the growth of the mind. That alone will produce the curiosity, creativity and commitment of young people that the prime minister promises under the NEP 2020, and nurture the atmosphere of enquiry, discovery and discussion that he appears to celebrate. Since many students who questioned — with commitment and desire for discussion — government policies are now under arrest, the new dawn of the NEP is bound to seem a little suspect. What is even more puzzling is the plight of those who will bring the NEP to fruition: for example, salaries of teachers of two Sanskrit universities that became Central universities in April are delayed, some contract teachers have had no work and no pay for two months, and some private universities have sent some teachers on leave. There are numerous other problems beginning with recruitment and appointment to match the NEP’s target enrolment. Even the middle path will prove elusive in this situation, let alone excellence.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-165
12-08-2020||Opinion||The future of news in India||The news industry today stands at a vital crossroads. The worsening economic health of print journalism threatens its ability to credibly inform the public and act as an institutional check upon power. The environment of digital news, on the other hand, operates in a vacuum of regulation. The emergence of a post-truth paradigm in public communications and the widespread proliferation of misinformation are barriers to realizing the benefits of digital news distribution. This report is primarily concerned with ensuring that high-quality journalism can transition into the era of digital communications in a manner that aligns with the public good. Research focus: We examine the digital transformation of the Indian news environment from a regulatory perspective. In doing so, two distinct questions are considered — first, the question of “News and the Internet’, which is an inquiry into how the print news industry has evolved in the Internet era; and, second, the question of “News on the Internet’, which is an analysis of the state of news on digital mediums, such as online websites, social media platforms and news aggregators. These questions structure our inquiry into an evolving phenomenon: the transformation of the news industry because of the growth of technology. The print news industry is especially crucial to the processes of democratic accountability in the country. In addition to its historical role as an institutional check upon State machinery, the print news industry employs a substantial number of on-ground reporters and is critical to continued high-quality journalism. The importance of this cannot be understated in an environment of increasing misinformation, the spread of ‘fake news’ and the emergence of a post-truth paradigm in public communications. Consequently, the interaction of the news and the Internet must be studied from a ground-up perspective by examining the evolution of the news industry in response to the Internet, and its evolution on the Internet. These are the two major parts of this report: “News and the Internet” and “News on the Internet”. Objective of this enquiry: There are two outcomes towards which the recommendations of this report are geared: (a) Sustaining credible print journalism
(b) Orienting digital news to the public good Recommendations: 1. Institutional reforms: The Ministry of Information and Broadcasting’s Department of Audio-Visual Promotion is a crucial node in channelling State support to newspapers in the form of advertisements. The department must be provided institutional autonomy from bureaucratic control, and measures to bring about transparency and accountability should be introduced. This would channel State support to newspapers in an equitable and transparent manner. 2. Checking the dominance of online advertising platforms: The advertisement-revenue model for digital news may be displaying indications of market failure. To orient the market for digital news towards the public good, the role and practices of online advertising platforms must be systematically studied by a specialized authority. An investigation by the Competition Commission of India into the dominance of online advertising platforms could be a starting point. 3. Enacting comprehensive light-touch measures to address misinformation: The entire chain of misinformation needs to be addressed in order to effectively tackle the crisis of misinformation. The report suggests a range of legislative, co-regulatory and voluntary measures, which provide an integrated framework to prevent the spread of misinformation and enhance reader literacy. 4. Imposing appropriate responsibilities on digital news entities: The legal vacuum for digital news needs to be filled in a manner which is sensitive to the nuances of online discourse. The report recommends granting limited powers to the Press Council of India in conjunction with a voluntary registration procedure and the development of a brief, accessible code of conduct as a mechanism for the imposition of editorial responsibility. The role of online platforms in the distribution of news should be addressed through targeted interventions based on the design aspects of such platforms. A report by the Vidhi Centre for Legal Policy||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-166
12-08-2020||Opinion||A test case||It is a common practice all over the world that when those incarcerated face a threat to life, the authorities send them home. Even Benito Mussolini had been forced by an international campaign to shift the Italian communist leader, Antonio Gramsci, when the latter’s health had deteriorated greatly, first to a clinic in Formia, then to a clinic in Rome and, finally, to release him after he had served 11 of his 20-year sentence. It was, however, already too late by then, and Gramsci died within a week of his release. In India, when communists were arrested in large numbers after the Second Party Congress in Calcutta in 1948, at which the party had adopted a collision course with the Jawaharlal Nehru government, the communist prisoners had gone on a mass hunger strike demanding better prison conditions. The Nehru government had released all those prisoners whose lives had been at risk because of the hunger strike. My father, a communist activist who had been in jail at the time, had been one of those released; he had reportedly been on a hunger strike for 43 days. It is a sign of the times that our present Central government does not feel the need to follow this practice of releasing prisoners even when their lives are at risk. Varavara Rao, a 79-year-old accused in the Bhima-Koregaon case, has been in jail for two years, where his health had broken down even before the pandemic; matters are worse now because he has tested positive for Covid-19. Yet the government has made no announcement till date about his release after he is discharged from hospital; and this is so notwithstanding the fact that he is merely awaiting trial and has not been convicted of any crime. On the basic principle that a person is presumed innocent until proven guilty, he is an innocent man being held in prison despite a collapse of his health, and despite being infected with the coronavirus that can be fatal at his age and with his co-morbidities. Much the same can be said of the other Bhima-Koregaon accused too. They have not been convicted of any crime; they are all, therefore, innocent persons, being held in coronavirus-infected jails despite the fact that most of them are, or are close to being, senior citizens, and almost all of them have severe co-morbidities that make the virus deadly for them. To have a law like the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, under which a completely innocent person (and one who may eventually be found innocent by the judiciary) can be kept in jail for an inordinate length of time, is a negation of democracy. The relentless application of this law to keep persons in jail in the midst of an unprecedented pandemic that can easily prove fatal for them indicates a shocking lack of humanity. If the allegation that the judiciary is complicit in this inhumanity is true, it would testify to its pusillanimity. Even more shocking is the nature of the argument that is pervasively advanced by lawyers against the granting of bail to these detainees. They are accused of ‘taking advantage’ of the pandemic to escape incarceration, as if being in jail ‘serves them right’ and constitutes their ‘just deserts’. The very language used is a denial of the basic principle of ‘innocent until proven guilty’, which is supposed to be accepted by all, both those prosecuting and those being prosecuted. Adherence to that principle would mean that all the Bhima-Koregaon accused are innocent as of now. For an innocent person to ask for release from jail is an assertion of a right, not an opportunistic manoeuvre. To present an innocent person’s desire for freedom as if it is a dishonest and condemnable act turns on its head an accepted norm of jurisprudence; it amounts to a rejection of the principle of ‘innocent until proven guilty’ and, thereby, displays a shocking disregard for human rights. The legal grounds for denying bail after charges have been framed are usually the following: the possibility of tampering with evidence by the person who is out on bail; and the possibility of that person influencing witnesses. In the Bhima-Koregaon case, the police have got all the evidence they need so that no scope for tampering remains. Besides, since the evidence consists of material found on laptops, and since the laptops have all been seized, no tampering is possible now. Likewise the question of influencing witnesses simply does not arise in a case like this where no bystander’s testimony is being used as evidence. Denying bail to the Bhima-Koregaon accused, therefore, seems more a vindictive act than one based on any genuine apprehension of possible miscarriage of justice; is the judiciary being stampeded here into going along with the executive? There is a further point here. A jail is what the government designates it to be. The Aga Khan’s palace in Pune where Gandhiji was incarcerated was not, historically, a jail; it was designated as one in order to keep Gandhiji there. Likewise, Ahmednagar fort, where the Congress Working Committee was imprisoned during the Quit India movement, was not a prominent jail; nonetheless it was converted into one for accommodating the working committee members. Similarly many leaders in Kashmir have been held recently in buildings that are not traditional jails; they simply served as jails for these leaders. And it is not only the Central government but also the state governments, within whose jurisdiction the accused are held, that have a discretion in deciding what constitutes a jail. It follows that even if the Bhima-Koregaon accused are not given bail by the courts, it is still open to the Maharashtra government to house them in premises designated as jails which are not the coronavirus-infected traditional jails of the sort where they are currently housed. They could even be sent back home to be kept under ‘house arrest’ under the watch of police guards; or they could be kept under ‘house arrest’ reporting periodically to the local police station (as my father had been asked to do almost seven decades ago when he had been released from jail after his hunger strike). State governments, in other words, have some discretion in the matter. At the very least whether or not they have this discretion needs to be tested, for which at least one of them has to step out of line with the Central government’s diktat and stand up for the rights of detainees. The fact that they have not done so till now suggests perhaps that the pusillanimity extends to the state governments as well. It has to be overcome if democratic rights are to be preserved. The significance of the Bhima-Koregaon case lies precisely in this. The question will naturally arise: why get so worked up over the Bhima-Koregaon case when there are so many other cases which are also crying out for attention? The answer lies in the fact that the Bhima-Koregaon case, while no doubt one among many, is also a test case. It has been rightly said: ‘That which can happen to anybody can happen to everybody’. Ensuring justice in the Bhima-Koregaon case, therefore, will be a means of ensuring justice in other cases as well. The author is Professor Emeritus, Centre for Economic Studies, Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-166
