13-08-2020||Opinion||Ill omen: Jimmy Lai in chains||Sir — The arrest of the media tycoon and founder of Apple Daily, Jimmy Lai, on charges of collusion with a foreign country — a vaguely defined crime under the new anti-sedition law adopted by Beijing — is alarming. Lai’s detention — he is a vocal critic of the Chinese Communist Party and has supported the democracy movement in Hong Kong — sends an ominous message about the future of the freedom of the press and citizens in the region. The global community must come together and ensure that the rights enjoyed by the residents of Hong Kong thus far are not completely decimated.Raya Sinha,Calcutta Colossal victory Sir — The overwhelming mandate given to the Sri Lanka Podujana Peramuna led by Mahinda Rajapaksa in the recent parliamentary elections in our neighbouring country is a reflection of the unwavering popularity of the strongman leader who recorded the highest number of individual preference votes in the electoral history of the country (“Rajapaksa to take oath today”, Aug 9). His victory, along with that of his brother, Gotabaya Rajapaksa, last year, is indicative of the rise of Sinhala-Buddhist nationalism in the island. The SLPP’s win has led to concerns that soon Sri Lanka might descend into authoritarianism. The electorate’s assertion of a majoritarian nationalist impulse is, however, not unique to Sri Lanka. It is true of many countries, including our own, where a government with a numerical superiority in Parliament and a weak and fractious Opposition has been able to undermine democracy and create a sense of insecurity among the minorities. With a two-thirds majority in the unicameral Parliament, the Rajapaksas can now amend the Constitution to restore presidential powers and simultaneously limit other institutions. As populist leaders, they are unlikely to face resistance if they militarize the country or crack down on dissent. Whether they will prioritize the pandemic, the revival of the economy and debt reduction remains to be seen. The Rajapaksa brothers have a contentious history with the Tamil population in the country. The civil war between the Sinhalese majority and Tamil minority — there have been concerns of grave human rights violations perpetrated on the latter — is a dark chapter in the history of the nation. The Rajapaksas, who held key administrative posts at the height of the civil war, have been under global scrutiny for their role in handling the crisis. It will also be interesting to see how Colombo manages its diplomatic relations with both New Delhi and Beijing who are currently at loggerheads with one another.G. David Milton,Maruthancode, Tamil Nadu
Sir — It seems that the authoritative and staunch nationalist leader, Mahinda Rajapaksa, is once again back as the prime minister of Sri Lanka. Although Maithripala Sirisena and Ranil Wickremesinghe earlier joined hands to oust the strongman leader from power, this uneasy alliance proved to be short-lived, paving the way for the Rajapaksa brothers to return to power. The heinous terrorist attack on Easter last year was the final nail in the coffin which convinced ordinary Sri Lankans that there is an urgent need for a strong leader at the helm. The electoral victory of Gotabaya Rajapaksa as the president of Sri Lanka in 2019 was the first step towards the Rajapaksas reclaiming power. As the elder Rajapaksa brother assumes power as the prime minister of the country with a two-thirds majority, there is no doubt that the brothers will attempt to amend the Constitution to their benefit. Rahul Chouhan,Ujjain Tearful goodbye Sir — The article by Ruchir Joshi on Mumbai bidding goodbye to the Fiat taxi made me nostalgic (“City on wheels”, Aug 11). The piece instantly reminded me of my first taxi ride in the city in the late 1980s, when I went there with my parents during summer vacation. We boarded the taxi from Victoria Terminus and embarked upon an enjoyable ride of 15 to 20 minutes to the hotel. I remember that the interior of the vehicle was clean and the driver was extremely polite. It was, thus, wonderful to be reminded of that time and of Mumbai’s iconic kaali-peeli Fiat taxi. Sourish Misra,Calcutta Sir — The Fiat taxis of Mumbai have always been an integral part of the larger economy of the city, which can justly boast about being the financial capital of India. As someone from Calcutta, I am amazed by the efficiency and resourcefulness of the residents of Mumbai every time I visit the city. Mumbai also has sprawling greenery and its efficient transportation facilities hold the city together. The iconic Fiat taxi, which is an enduring symbol of Mumbai, will be sorely missed. Anupam Roy,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-165
13-08-2020||Opinion||Desert storm: Sachin Pilot's 'ghar wapsi'||It appears that the enfant terrible would be accommodated in the Congress’s fold in Rajasthan. Sachin Pilot, who had raised the banner of rebellion briefly against Ashok Gehlot’s government, may have resigned himself to a quiet return to the party but the question is whether he would be willing to don the garb of the proverbial prodigal son. The word is Mr Pilot’s ghar wapsi is an act of political pragmatism. The possibility of Mr Gehlot’s government surviving a test of numbers may have unnerved some of the ‘rebels’ who had sided with Mr Pilot: one of the principal dissenters is reported to have pledged his support and that of five other MLAs for Mr Gehlot. The developments have undoubtedly strengthened the grip of Mr Gehlot who demonstrated political spine and wisdom to neutralize a threat to his government. Would Mr Pilot be content to remain in the shadow of the chief minister? The answer is critical to the future of the Congress as a political force. Schisms and petty rivalries have been the bane of the Congress, enabling an ambitious, aggressive Bharatiya Janata Party to repeatedly engineer defections within the party and topple elected governments. Madhya Pradesh and Karnataka are two recent examples. The Congress may have managed to cling on to power in Rajasthan but it needs to find a way to douse internal flames not only for its political survival but also to retain its credibility as a viable alternative to the BJP. There is also an urgent need to fill the leadership vacuum in the party to energize its cadre and, possibly, adopt strategies to contain the erosion. The BJP, having bagged Jyotiraditya Scindia and, with him, the throne in Madhya Pradesh, would be disappointed with the outcome in Rajasthan. ‘Operation Lotus’, evidently, does not bloom on every kind of political turf. Does Vasundhara Raje’s inertia also mean that the BJP is not without its own enfants terribles?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-165
13-08-2020||Opinion||Poor pickings: Agricultural infrastructure fund||The prime minister has announced, as part of continuing economic interventions to stimulate recovery from the recessionary trends, an agricultural infrastructure fund to the tune of one lakh crore spread over four years in the form of soft loans. These loans will have a 3 per cent interest subvention and a credit guarantee of up to two crore rupees. The initial tranche of Rs 10,000 crore has been released for this year, to be followed by additional tranches of Rs 30,000 crore each for the next three years. Eleven banks have signed up to be part of this lending process. The beneficiaries are expected to be primary agri-credit societies, farmer-producer organizations, start-ups and agri-tech businesses. The projects funded are supposed to improve post-harvest management of the distribution and storage network, such as cold chains, collection centres and warehousing facilities. It will reduce wastage and help farmers get a better price for their produce. The government anticipates that growth in these facilities will generate additional employment and enhance post-harvest value addition. There is little doubt that Indian agriculture lacks an efficient supply chain. The small farmer hardly ever benefits from fair prices at the first point of sale. When supplies are low, they cannot hold on to their produce because of the lack of storage facilities. If there is a good harvest, they try to sell as fast as possible expecting prices to fall further when sales gather momentum. In either case, they are deprived of the margin that markets eventually provide to the final sellers. The key question is whether this package will help the small and marginal farmers in the short run on the doubtful assumption that there will be many takers of these loans. There is an important issue that might prevent the poorest of the poor in agriculture from benefiting from this fund. Initially, when these additional services come into being, food prices will rise to take care of the costs of running modern technology-driven collection centres or cold chains. In other words, the average price of food will increase. Gradually, as wastage is reduced, the supply-side effect will come into play, and prices might soften. This will not benefit farmers directly unless they can ensure, through collective bargaining, a fair share of the new profits generated in the system. Such investments are more likely to be made by corporates and young, tech-savvy entrepreneurs. Poor farmers are incapable of handling these complex projects. They can neither turn into modern entrepreneurs, nor will they be able to extract a price advantage even if there is significant investment in these services. The fundamental issue of introducing a soil-conserving, productivity-enhancing, environment-friendly technology for the benefit of small and marginal farmers remains unaddressed. Hence the gains from growth in Indian agriculture will be confined to the corporate sector.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-165
13-08-2020||Opinion||The crisis of language and its recovery||Does language shape thought, or does thought shape language? The answer, perhaps, is a bit of both. Without vocabulary, we cannot express ourselves in all the ways that make us human, just as phrases cannot be born without the vortex of imagination that produces, and is, in turn, reproduced from culture. To pronounce that language is in crisis is to imply the same about thought and culture. The nature of language is such that it is bound to be in a perpetual negotiation between the shifting sands of connotation and interpretation. What, however, makes the present moment distinct is how acute (yet largely unacknowledged) this struggle has become, reaching a stage where the distortion of language is commonplace. The primary hub of linguistic dysfunction is social media. In classical Greece, public discourse was shaped through oracular enunciation in a type of opinion leadership that was top-down, passing from the enlightened to the ordinary. In the nascent stages of the American republic, the printing press democratized informed debate, as is documented exquisitely in Neil Postman’s iconic text, Amusing Ourselves to Death. We are now living in another inflection point of language; the age of split-second semantics, a form of language that has become an inseparable component of the digital domain. Scrolling through social media makes it glaring how language is decontextualized. This is done by taking complex and elaborate concepts and reducing them into a single coinage for maximum emphasis of opinion and maximum dilution of insight. ‘Anti-national’, ‘urban Naxal’, ‘sickular’, ‘fascist’, among countless other phrases floating in social media, are deployed without any exposition of what such slippery terms are meant to convey. Since the peculiarities of algorithms sustain online echo chambers — where validation and virality, and not verification and veracity, take precedence — few take the pains to point out that in the absence of locating what ‘national’ is, abusing someone by tagging them as ‘anti-national’ makes no sense. Similarly, a grievous error is committed when every supporter of an autocratic, populist politician is branded ‘right-wing’. Words are thus weaponized as part of the face-offs between keyboard warriors. The aforementioned misuse of language on social media partly stems from the fact that as a society, we can no longer handle abstract words with any degree of sophistication. When it comes to substantiating the intangible or the metaphysical, a multitude of contrasting, (and often) contradictory inferences start jostling with each other. The fact that so much of our cultural currency is generated through social media means that every aspect of life is influenced by the medium. Political speeches, which have dissociated themselves from serious polemics, have been reduced to unadulterated mud-slinging. Even as they invoke ad hominem arguments, today’s politicians make no effort to maintain structural coherence or continuity, jumping from one insult to another while filling the interludes with flamboyant calls for nationalistic resurgence.  Realpolitik, therein, becomes couched in a language that employs artifice to say very little of real value. Language, therefore, becomes a deflector of attention rather than an agent of scrutiny and ideation that it was supposed to be in a robust democracy. What, then, is to be done to recover from the crisis of language? The first step is to accept that there is a crisis. Given the function of language and how it evolves in modern society, it is not possible to create a manifesto, as George Orwell did in his essay, “Politics and the English Language”, that can warrant or expect adherence. What can happen, however, is the cultivation of attitudes that begins to chip away at its problematic understanding. Such an attitude must be rooted in scepticism, in affording time and perspective to comprehending what a word really means and how it has been put to use historically. But this scepticism should not spill over into the censorious territory of political correctness where permissibility is policed under the garb of protecting free speech. A less demanding approach would be the adoption of levity — the ability to take ourselves less seriously or exercise words with caution. Levity would also connect directly with the physical world where politicians can introduce candour, humour and purpose to whatever they say knowing fully well that in speaking, they are only defending a policy or a point of view and not their selves. Ultimately, a resurgence of language relies on a resurgence of thought. We have surrendered a large part of our creative and intellectual capacities to the dictates of language that have been erected either as propaganda or as an outgrowth of linguistic irreverence. Once this acceptance takes place, there still may not be an immediate recovery of language, but we would have, at least, arrested a crisis that is fast eroding the bases of how we speak, write, and think.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-165
13-08-2020||Opinion||Slash and burn||A remarkable positive lesson of the Covid-19-induced lockdowns has been a better understanding of what our daily activities do to nature. It was like a controlled experiment in a laboratory: with the economy shut down for all practical purposes, there were blue skies, cleaner air and rivers, and greater visibility of animals moving out of forests with less fear as they checked out the world we share with them. Of course, economic lockdowns cannot be the cure for continuous environmental decay. However, it was a lesson that should remove doubts in the minds of those who still believe that humans are the masters of the universe and the rest of nature is at our service, to be used and exploited at will. Another important lesson that the pandemic is teaching us is the fact that we can all survive on much less than what we actually consume. Our material needs are often inessential and induced by the bombarding of corporate advertisements. Instead of consuming to live, we have begun living to consume. Consumption has become an end in itself. Two important conclusions can be drawn from the interrelated lessons. The first is that the obsession with economic growth measured by the aggregate statistic called gross domestic product is inadequate to indicate the well-being of the people and the planet they inhabit. Moreover, the usual activities of production and consumption inflict severe damage to the natural environment, polluting life-support systems like clean air, fresh water and fertile soil as well as exhausting non-renewable natural resources like oil and mineral ores. Hence, if there is a return to business-as-usual after the pandemic wanes, the systematic damage of the natural environment will continue. That can only jeopardize life on this planet, including human life, both for the present as well as for future generations. The second conclusion is that alternatives to an exclusive obsession with aggregate growth are possible, with more emphasis on a fairer distribution of existing resources and wealth, coupled with higher stress on creative pursuits and culture. John Stuart Mill described it in his prescription for a steady-State where a low growth-rate was accompanied by what he described as a cultivation of the “social graces”. Many thinkers are trying to imagine a world after Covid-19. Most believe that many things will have to change: how we work, how we travel, how we socialize, healthcare systems, the delivery of educational services and so on. Nations will have a chance to reset their economic priorities. Not that all nations will exercise that option. Many will return to business-as-usual with terrible long-term consequences. Business, politics, and even science have got enmeshed in a web of myopic greed. Tomorrow is just another new day to make money and dominate nature. The world, in the recent past, has witnessed the emergence of authoritarian leaders in many countries who believe that protecting the environment is a liberal conspiracy to reduce profits and economic development. India, too, has an option to change the course of economic development towards a more sustainable one. The nation had been one of the pioneers of an international movement for environmental protection and has a comprehensive set of legislations on different aspects of environmental conservation. It is another matter altogether that there has been a widening gap between the ground reality and the law. India was ranked 177 out of 180 nations measured by the Environmental Performance Index published by Yale University in 2018. India has marginally improved its rank to 168 in 2020. Most experts believe that India has to redouble its efforts at sustainable development. The Union government does not seem to share that view. A recent development in the law is a newly amended notification of the Environmental Impact Assessment 2020 replacing the earlier EIA of 2006. The EIA entails that any development project must get a clearance from the ministry of environment, forest and climate change to ensure that the project does not damage the natural environment beyond repair. The clearance was mandatory before any major development project could commence. There has been some amount of dilution in the reading and the interpretation of the EIA notification since 2006. Business lobbies have complained about the clearance, claiming that it takes too long to prepare the documents. Then the government took an even longer time to give the clearance. Perhaps in response to these complaints, the National Democratic Alliance government has come up with the amended version, which will set the environmental management clock back. Two basic principles guide environmental management. Since nature is a shared resource belonging to everybody, changes brought about by large projects need to be understood by the people — the beneficiaries as well as by those adversely affected by the damage caused by building the artefacts of the project. Hence people’s participation in decision-making is of utmost importance. Many of the benefits and the damages are uncertain. In such a situation, the precautionary principle of risk management is adopted which suggests that in the presence of prima facie evidence that an action can cause heavy environmental damage, it would be best not to adopt it. This is better than allowing the damage to occur, and then trying to make repairs. Expert opinion is needed for these assessments. It reflects the philosophy of prevention being better than cure. The new EIA seems to violate both these principles. In a rush to attract new investments, the government has virtually done away with public consultation in the assessment process and also the use of expert opinion. Even reports of violations of environmental laws made by affected parties can now be ignored by the government. Penalties in the form of remedial action can be levied by a government agency or a regulator on the basis of a suo moto admission by the project developer that a law has been violated. It is not clear why developers would like to bring penalties upon themselves. There is a long list of industries exempt from EIA clearance altogether: coal, oil, methane and shale oil to name a few. All these can create heavy pollution and natural destruction. National parks, roads and highway construction have also been given a large leeway to encroach upon the environment. Ex-post facto clearances can be given by the government in such cases.
The document is open to many ambiguities and different interpretations. This can only encourage opportunistic behaviour by business and government alike. In the last few years, more than 4,000 hectares of forest land have been diverted for coal-mining. In a grim finding, a World Bank study stated that almost 23 per cent of mortality among children under five is due to environmental factors — of which 12.6 per cent of children pass away due to concerns with water supply, sanitation and hygiene while indoor air pollution claims 9.8 per cent of the children. Unsurprisingly, the report noted that the damage caused by environmental degradation affects the poor population more. Rich and powerful businessmen will be happy with the new EIA notification. The poor will hardly know what its implications are to their lives. It will improve the ease of doing business, but it will also cause irreparable harm to the nation’s future. The obsessive engagement with GDP is an erroneous understanding of what constitutes economic and social well-being at best and is a supreme act of anthropogenic arrogance at the worst. The author is former professor of Economics, IIM Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-165
