14-08-2020||Opinion||Days to remember: World Elephant Day||Sir — Many people wonder about the need for so many commemorative days — World Earth Day or Global Tiger Day, for instance — all through the year. However, going by the report by World Animal Protection on World Elephant Day — it was observed recently — they seem not just necessary but also inadequate. The report revealed that India is home to the second highest number of elephants used for tourism. Further, they are kept in dismal conditions at entertainment venues, with over 500 elephants being housed at only 21 venues. It is thus important to raise awareness about mankind’s exploitation of the natural world only for its greed.Prashanta Ghoshal,Calcutta Twisted tongues Sir — The recent incident in Chennai where an officer of the Central Industrial Security Force reportedly taunted the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam leader, Kanimozhi, at the airport by asking the parliamentarian if she was an Indian just because she said she did not know Hindi cannot be casually brushed aside as an unfortunate incident (“Kanimozhi question on Hindi”, Aug 10). It is clear that the question was meant to be sardonic and born out of arrogance. The caustic remark is an affront to all Indians who do not speak Hindi. The Centre’s repeated attempts to impose Hindi on non-Hindi speaking people, especially in the South, helps abet such incidents. Why else would an officer ask such a question to a non-Hindi speaking person in a non-Hindi speaking state? The errant officer should be taken to task for her insolent behaviour.Ranganathan Sivakumar,Chennai Sir — Reading Kanimozhi’s tweet about the incident at the airport was not quite surprising. Students from the southern states of India are often subjected to humiliation for not speaking in Hindi in college and university campuses in North India. But the insult to the parliamentarian was striking because it happened in Chennai, where most people are expected to speak Tamil. Whatever may be the actual reason for the CISF officer refusing to communicate in a language that native air passengers could understand, to take upon oneself the authority to pronounce what language an Indian should speak was entirely uncalled for. The present political situation at the Centre gives a free rein to people like the CISF officer, who go about flaunting their prejudice and bigotry, caring little about how such behaviour alienates speakers of other Indian languages. Shovanlal Chakraborty,Calcutta Sir — Soon after Kanimozhi posted the tweet about being harassed at the Chennai airport for not being able to communicate in Hindi, P. Chidambaram and H.D. Kumaraswamy, too, spoke up about the hurdles faced by non-Hindi speakers in India. This makes it clear that Hindi imposition has been a persistent problem. Unlike what many Hindi speakers might believe, Hindi is neither the “national language” nor the mother tongue of the majority. Even if it were so, it could not have been an excuse for bullying people who speak other languages. Perhaps the only way to fight Hindi imposition in the country is for non-Hindi speakers to learn their mother tongues better, and be more vocal against such bigotry. Noyonika Sen,Calcutta Sir — It is shocking that the incident involving Kanimozhi occurred at the Chennai airport. If such a blatant exhibition of language chauvinism can happen in Tamil Nadu, that too with a member of parliament, one can only imagine the plight of non-Hindi speaking persons in the Hindi heartland. This incident has brought to the fore the blatant attempts of Hindi imposition in states like Tamil Nadu. Should it not be mandatory for people who are posted at airports to learn the local language? The high-handedness of the security officer is one example why Tamil Nadu had needed anti-Hindi agitations in the past. It is time for all political parties, irrespective of their affiliations, to come together and take concrete steps to stop the imposition of Hindi in the state. Tharcius S. Fernando,Chennai Empty promise Sir — The prime minister, Narendra Modi, has officially launched the agriculture infrastructure fund worth one lakh crore rupees (“Farm fund with a riddle”, Aug 10). While it is true that farmers across the country are suffering from the lack of infrastructure, such as warehouses, cold storage chains and all-weather road connectivity, this scheme is unlikely to meet their needs. First, the funds will be disbursed as loans. This is not the same as giving out money. Further, all facilities will be provided via farmer groups or corporate players, not directly to farmers. Is there any guarantee that the benefit will reach the underprivileged farmers, who need such help the most? The farm crisis in India is critical — a number of farmers commit suicide every year owing to their inability to pay back loans. Instead of resolving this problem, the government has delivered a new eyewash. The need of the hour is to let farmers have a greater say in determining the price of their produce or to transfer cash directly to their bank accounts. Tapomoy Ghosh, Katwa, West Burdwan||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-164
14-08-2020||Opinion||Threadbare: All India Handloom, and Handicrafts Board||Uncovering the truth involves looking deep below the surface. The fact that the Union textiles ministry quietly scrapped the All India Handloom Board and the All India Handicrafts Board, and changed the status of eight textile research associations — these have now ceased to be “affiliated bodies” of the ministry — might have gone unnoticed had the Centre not decided to ‘celebrate’ National Handloom Day. The inherent contradiction between the Centre’s actions and rhetoric is too stark to ignore, more so because of the immense significance of the history of handloom in India. National Handloom Day is an occasion to commemorate the swadeshi movement; this indigenous craft was a central element in the vision of both M.K. Gandhi and Jawaharlal Nehru about India’s economic regeneration. What made the outlook of India’s founding fathers singular was that it seamlessly combined tradition with a modern sensibility. Gandhi’s vision of economic and moral autonomy through khadi was complemented by Nehru’s desire for the modern State to tap into India’s core expertise to usher in prosperity for its people. Deft management of the diverse handloom industry could have been the key to the affluence and autonomy of rural India. But this has not come to pass. Institutional myopia — every elected government is responsible — led to a decades-long decline of handloom; it may have now been dealt a death blow by the winding up of the advisory panels, which were the main fora for artisans to articulate their concerns and have a say in Central policy-making. That the handloom boards had been largely inert for over 10 years cannot be cited as a plausible reason for their closure. It amounts, yet again, to the State abdicating its responsibility towards keeping arenas for dialogue among artisans, policy-makers and the market robust. Significantly, it also raises serious questions about the prime minister’s clarion call of ‘atmanirbharta’. Narendra Modi’s government put forward its oft-used phrase, ‘minimum government, maximum governance’, as the reason for its abolition drive. This ‘excuse’, however, amounts to complicity. Handloom workers are beset with problems — poor infrastructure and funding, the iron grip of middlemen, the lack of income and the absence of dignity of labour are among them — and the benefits of patronage of government and market are rare. These inequalities can only be addressed by an effective assimilation of indigenous products and their creators with consumers. Resurrecting active regulatory institutions — handloom boards — would have been one way of protecting the interests of India’s artisans.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-164
14-08-2020||Opinion||Girls too: Hindu Succession (Amendment) Act, 2005||The first step towards gender equality in Hindu inheritance was taken in the Hindu Succession (Amendment) Act, 2005. The traditional Mitakshara system of succession to property in the Hindu undivided family was codified in the Hindu Succession Act, 1956, by which the heirs were male. The 2005 amendment made daughters coparceners too, equal to sons. Last Tuesday, the Supreme Court cleared the confusions that had arisen since then, caused by two opposing court rulings regarding the daughter’s inheritance if the father had died before the amendment. This time, the Supreme Court said that a daughter being a coparcener by birth, the father need not have been alive when the amendment was passed for her to inherit her share of ancestral property or of personal property, unless it had been willed otherwise. Also, the woman’s share would not revert to the male heirs after her death, as was the case before 2005 when the daughter was bequeathed property. The clarification is welcome, because it upholds the principle of equality in the Constitution and before the law. For ages, women have been left helplessly dependent on the kindness of men when deserted, widowed or unmarried. Gender bias in the law made easier the operations of misogyny in Indian society: it was common to cheat women of property, to turf them out of their homes, to send them off to Varanasi and, in some cases, go even further. The 2005 amendment shows how far the law has come since then. But the ideal may not always be easy to implement in real life. Apart from the fact that huge numbers of women are regularly deprived of their basic rights — from an equal share of nutrition to a dignified and violence-free life in their natal and marital homes — in spite of laws, other issues must be resolved as well. For example, the right to ancestral property must be seen in relation to the absolute right to streedhan, much of which is gifted by the parents — often in gold — during marriage, usually understood as a substitute for a share in ancestral property as well as insurance for the married daughter should things get difficult. The insistence on gender-equality in law is of overwhelming importance. Equality in society’s arrangements will depend on the nature and success of implementation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-164
14-08-2020||Opinion||Sight, oversight: Assam floods 2020||The prime minister, Narendra Modi, presided over a virtual “flood meeting” on August 10. He released 386 crore rupees for relief in Assam, where the deluge is an annual calamity that affects lakhs of people and renders thousands homeless. Coming amid the Covid-19 pandemic, this year has been exceptionally traumatic, leaving over 135 residents dead and more than 150 animals killed. My first experience of the floods in Assam was during summer in the late Seventies. My uncle, a tea planter, was travelling from the north bank of the Brahmaputra to Golaghat to meet his environmentalist friend, Robin Banerjee, and took us along. It was a long road trip and my aunt stopped at a roadside haat to pick up fresh produce, including bananas and vegetables. Shortly thereafter, we ran into floodwaters that grew increasingly difficult to navigate. The thought of turning back after coming so far incensed my uncle so much that he took the bunch of bananas and threw them into the swirling waters, laying the blame on the fruit that is considered an ill omen for journeys! Since then, I have followed the annual flood scenario with an acute sense of déjà vu and helplessness. Governments promise remedies but none work. Whatever happened to the highlands created at Kaziranga National Park to save the animals from drowning? The significant difference this year has been the global attention the floods have generated. England’s Premier League football team, Arsenal, took to Instagram to express solidarity with Assam, reeling under floods and Covid-19. “We are with you... Stay strong, Assam,” it said. Rivals, Chelsea FC, followed suit. “Our thoughts are with everyone affected by the floods in Assam,” the London club said in a Facebook post the next day. The actor, Adil Hussain, immediately took to Twitter to highlight the lack of concern shown towards the floods in Assam, his home state. “Arsenal FC stands with Assamese People. I don’t understand why, then, our Celebrities, Mainstream Media, Cricket Stars are not raising their voices in support of Assamese people! So disappointed with you all,” he tweeted. Tripura’s royal scion and former Congress leader, Pradyot Kishore Manikya Debbarma, echoed his sentiments. “It’s unfortunate. We in the Northeast should become atmanirbhar,” he told me. The barbs galvanized a few into action, even as international attention grew. Teenaged Swedish climate activist, Greta Thunberg, donated one lakh euros (around Rs 8.7 crore) she had received for winning the Gulbenkian Prize for Humanity to flood relief efforts in India and Bangladesh. On July 28, the actor, Priyanka Chopra Jonas, and her husband and pop star, Nick Jonas, announced they had donated funds for Bihar and Assam flood relief and urged fans to extend support to the disaster-stricken states. Priyanka, who was brand ambassador for Assam from 2016 to 2019, said the state has been “devastated” by floods. “The rapidly rising water level has also flooded the Kaziranga National Park, one of the finest wildlife sanctuaries in the world... They need our attention and support... Nick and I have made a donation to each. Let us support them so they can continue to help those in need. #Assamfloods #PrayForAssam #AssamNeedsHelp,” Priyanka said in a statement. Prince William and his wife, Kate Middleton, too, expressed distress over the devastation in Kaziranga. In a letter to the park’s director, the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge said they were heartbroken. The actor and producer, Anushka Sharma, and the skipper of the Indian cricket team, Virat Kohli, also pledged support to the people of flood-ravaged Assam and Bihar. The Dalai Lama, in a letter to Assam’s chief minister, Sarbananda Sonowal, expressed sadness over the floods. Modi has announced two lakh rupees for each flood death. Time for their customary aerial survey, perhaps, now that the waters are receding and Lord Ram has been propitiated? Or should that be virtual too?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-165
14-08-2020||Opinion||Etched on stone||It is rare for archaeologists to find themselves in the midst of a geopolitical storm. Yet this is what happened to the Archaeological Survey of India in the 1980s. Vietnam had intervened militarily in Cambodia in late 1978 to overthrow the Khmer Rouge whose leadership headed by Pol Pot had been responsible for a widespread genocide. Vietnam, thereafter, faced a Chinese invasion leading to a brief but intense border war between the two. In Cambodia, the new Vietnam-backed government was unable to secure recognition in the United Nations and from its Southeast Asian neighbours.  Cambodia had, in effect, become a small part of a larger geopolitical game between the United States of America and the Soviet Union with China and Vietnam, respectively, in alliance with each of the two adversaries. India was one of the few countries that recognized the new government. Pol Pot’s genocide and the upheaval that shook Cambodia through the 1970s had one very specific consequence, and this was for the temple complex of Angkor Wat. Khmer Rouge purges meant all trained Cambodian personnel, such as they were, who had worked in and maintained the site were killed or had left. A civil war meant that international experts had also left and the fact that the temple was in a war zone meant that the risk of physical destruction was ever present. Post-1979, the absence of international recognition meant most external assistance was ruled out. Under these circumstances, a request was made to India for assistance in the maintenance of Angkor Wat. For most in India this was no more than in the order of things. For those who had visited the Angkor temple complex or knew about it, it was natural that India should be undertaking its restoration. For the ASI embarking on the restoration was a landmark event — testimony to not only India’s international standing and to India-Cambodia relations but also a testimonial to its professional expertise in excavation, restoration and maintenance of Hindu, Buddhist and Islamic structures. In 1981, the ASI’s annual publication, Indian Archaeology:  A Review, had the majestic Angkor Wat on its cover. By 1986, an ASI team was at work and would continue for the next seven years. The ASI alone in Angkor Wat, as a result of an agreement between India and Cambodia, created, in the words of one observer, “an uproar in the small worlds of archeology and stone conservation”. The French were the most aggrieved. Angkor was their domain. A Frenchman had ‘discovered’ the complex in the mid-19th century and in the period thereafter French scholarship had set the pace and the standards for the history and the archaeology of Indo-China. They had been, after all, the colonial power and had overseen conservation and research in Angkor for over a century till the conflict in the 1970s forced them out. The École Française d’Extrême Orient or the EFFO had been at the centre of scholarship and conservation from the early 20th century and had maintained this premier position through the Japanese occupation in the 1940s and even after decolonization in the mid 1950s. Thus, the Indian presence and the absence of the French were taken badly and a barrage of criticism of the ASI followed over construction techniques. Most of it was misdirected and did not take into account the situation on the ground that a small team of archaeologists faced on account of the Khmer Rouge insurgency that had not fully died out, landmines and so on. In ASI reports of the period, we also find adverse comments on the errors made by French conservationists in the past and how these were now being set right by the Indian team. The ASI archaeologists on the ground in Cambodia saw the criticism as motivated — former colonials resentful of new actors and powers. They, in turn, claimed their own special relationship with Angkor: “India is emotionally attached to the monument. There is so much Indian inspiration.” Looking at the difficulties the archaeologists faced and the challenging environment they were in, a director-general of the ASI was to write: “It was a great adventure overseas, not unlike the ones undertaken by scholars, artists, merchants and princes who crossed the eastern seas in the early Christian era to trade spices, gems and ideas with their counterparts in Cambodia, Java, Bali and Siam.” The situation had other ironies. Indian scholarly interest in Southeast Asia from the second decade of the twentieth century had come about as awareness of French and Dutch archaeology and epigraphy in the region spread to India. Indians gradually became aware of the Buddhist and Hindu past of ancient Cambodia with many inscriptions in Sanskrit, the Ramayana and the Mahabharata as referral texts, as also a vast iconography and symbolism that related to India. Many Indian scholars saw these as ancient Indian colonies established by settlers and migrants. Others used the term, ‘colony’, but also spoke of evidence that suggested that this was a cultural zone rather than an arena of political domination or economic exploitation. Perhaps the existing scholarship -- both in India and elsewhere -- was only slowly advancing in the first half of the twentieth century to  identify a greater extent of local involvement and agency in this widespread use of Indian icons, language, scripts, mythology and so on. The term, ‘soft power’, was coined much later — towards the end of the 20th century. Yet it has an obvious relevance to India’s profound presence in Southeast Asia in the first millennium and later. But there were also even larger questions that interested scholars both in India and in France: how was it in an area so close to China that an Indian cultural, religious and intellectual spread was so visible? The New York Times reported in 1992 that the Indian presence in Cambodia has “sparked one of the angriest debates of modern art conservation. Depending on the expert [who is] asked the question, Angkor Wat is either being restored to a lost glory or is being irreversibly damaged.” While conservation methodology was one issue, there were even more substantive political factors at play. The 1980s was a time of great polarization in the world of high culture. The US withdrew from membership of the Unesco in 1984. The United Kingdom followed suit. Many issues arising from the Cold War were involved but former colonies asserting themselves in international platforms was also a factor. With the end of the Cold War geopolitics changed, once more. The listing of Angkor in the Unesco World Heritage list meant that the issue gradually resolved itself from the 1990s onwards. The French, Japanese and others slowly returned. In the initial years, older proprietary attitudes of the former colonials persisted. A report in The New York Times was to say, “The French don’t want the Japanese... and the Japanese certainly don’t want the French... And the French and the Japanese don’t want the Indians.” This gradually faded as Cambodian institutions came up and asserted themselves. The ASI, thus, remains in Angkor as another reminder of the millennia-old contacts between South Asia and the ancient Khmer. In geopolitical conflicts, the past will invariably figure in the present. The author is a former High Commissioner to Singapore and Pakistan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-165
