15-08-2020||Opinion||Into the dark: A majoritarian India||Sir — As India celebrates another year of independence today, it must be asked whether our founding fathers had envisioned the kind of future for the nation’s citizens that the latter are living out now. Not only is India now ruled by an administration that is failing miserably to tackle a pandemic, but it is also witnessing growing majoritarianism and violence against women, Dalits and other minority communities. ‘New India’ is not the country that our freedom fighters had envisioned; is it too late for those of us who value the ideals of our Constitution to turn the tide?Vishakha Saraf,Calcutta Money games Sir — The report, “How insured patients are left uncovered” (Aug 14), was painful to read. In recent weeks, Covid-19 patients at multiple hospitals in Calcutta have been reported to be running up bills in the range of Rs 15-20 lakh, leaving their families drained of all their resources. The patients’ families have often pointed to the lack of transparency in the billing system and alleged that they were kept in the dark about the escalating cost of treatment. Even various doctors’ bodies have come down heavily on private hospitals for overcharging the patients. In response to a number of complaints of this nature, the Bengal government sent an advisory to hospitals stating that they cannot demand more than 20 per cent of the estimated cost of treatment or Rs 50,000, whichever is lesser at the time of admission. In spite of the guidelines, this week a patient was asked by a city hospital to deposit for Rs 3,00,000 as an advance payment. Being unable to do so, she died in an ambulance while waiting for treatment. Popular doctors’ bills were reported to have been reduced only after health regulators intervened. These heartless hospital administrations even ask for advance payment from patients covered by cashless insurance, which is in violation of the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority’s guidelines. Given the current scenario, in which everyone is stressed out and many are under financial strain, private hospitals must follow the government’s guidelines, including taking consent letters from the family members of a patient in case a costly test is to be repeated. The hospitals should share the details of the bills with the patient’s kin on a daily basis — through WhatsApp, SMS or email — so that the final bill does not come as a shock to them. They should also hold video-conferences with the family, advising them on the course of treatment and the financial implications. There will be several instances of patients and their families approaching hospitals saying that they are unable to pay more than a certain amount. Hospital authorities should consider such proposals on humanitarian grounds and offer concessions in deserving cases.Khokan Das,Calcutta
Sir — It is a matter of great shame that patients afflicted with the coronavirus now also have to worry about going bankrupt in order to get the treatment required to get better. Reports about how hospital administrations are overcharging patients should make us hang our heads in shame; is this the manner in which citizens are to be treated in the middle of an unprecedented crisis such as the Covid-19 pandemic? How are ordinary people supposed to bear the costs of treatment when they are expected to pay out of their own pockets for items such as personal protective gear kits, face masks, gloves and hand sanitizers, none of which are covered by the insurance agencies?Malini Kamat,Calcutta Sir — It is appalling to note the manner in which ordinary people are having to run from pillar to post just to get their loved ones treated for Covid-19. The cost of treatment is proving to be far too much for a vast section of the population at a time when such medical care should be readily accessible to all. While it is true that hospitals are under immense pressure given the rising number of cases, it is their responsibility, and that of the government, to ensure that no patient has to die for the inability to pay. Jonaki Basu,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-164
15-08-2020||Opinion||Borderline case: Claiming The Buddha||When a hold-all subject called geography, packed with fold mountains and sedimentary rocks, trade winds and cold currents, and the earth spinning on its tilted axis with all its climatic regions, rivers, forests, countries and cities, is inflicted on schoolchildren, they are seldom told that geography can also be history. The history need not be of the geological kind alone, or of the gradually rising Himalaya mountains and changing course of rivers, but also of shifting national borders and constantly updated maps. In this potent brew of geography and history, the past can come to haunt the present as much as the present tries to reclaim the past. Yet national pride runs along present borders; they mark a psychological and cultural domain that resents encroachment. That is how Nepal reacted to the remark of the Indian minister for external affairs, S. Jaishankar, that the two great Indians he could think of were Gautam Buddha and Mahatma Gandhi. The remark was perceived as part of the cultural oppression that the prime minister of Nepal, K.P. Sharma Oli, has been complaining of, while identifying Ram’s birthplace in Nepal. That had not gone down too well. However that may be, national pride in the appropriation of early religious, historical, mythical and cultural greats ignores issues such as the absence of nations and hence their borders at the times, real or speculative, referred to. The Indian ministry of foreign affairs hastened to clarify that Mr Jaishankar was referring to Nepal and India’s shared tradition of Buddhism; there was no doubt that Lumbini, where the prince, Siddhartha, was born, is in Nepal. In 2014, before relations between India and Nepal started to grow frosty, as it did in 2015, the Indian prime minister had referred to Nepal as the birthplace of the apostle of peace. A bit ironic now, as the two neighbours have grown somewhat abrasive since. Arguments about the exact location of the origins of Buddhism — why else would the Buddha’s birthplace matter apart from being a destination for believers and tourists? — could reach absurd proportions. Were the Buddha’s teachings curled up in his brain when he was born, or did they develop as he saw the ‘four sights’ outside the palace in Kapilavastu, or are they distilled from his enlightenment in Bodh Gaya? The debate can go on forever. But there is a much bigger question here. Why this need to patent a figure from the past with a geographical indicator, like Bordeaux wine, when the subject for discussion is Nepal’s unilateral decision to change its map to claim areas that India believes to be its own? That is no less a mixture of geography and history than the Buddha issue. Competing claims to national pride through a mendicant prince for whom there were no borders seem a little silly when the concern is a real-life map. After all, his greatness lay in not belonging.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-164
15-08-2020||Opinion||Fitter ways: Workout solutions during Covid-19||With gymnasiums and fitness centres operating at limited capacity on account of social distancing guidelines, companies are trying to use creative methods to get people moving. According to the market research firm, OnePoll, 25 per cent of Americans plan to never go back to the gym. Moreover, the gym chains, Gold’s Gym and 24 Hour Fitness, were unable to keep up with the closures and filed for bankruptcy. As a result, digital exercise and at-home workout videos have popped up everywhere. Dumb-bells and Peloton bikes (which cost two grand) are also selling out online. This month, the spinning company, BYKlyn Cycle, is opening BYKlyn Yard, a pop-up outdoor studio complete with fake grass. Each class will be 45 minutes of high intensity cardio: battle hills, flats, sprints and intervals. The 18 bikes will be spread at least six feet apart at the pop-up, with masks available for all riders and staff. In Chicago, the fitness company, Studio Three, is taking over and repurposing a vacant parking lot in River North. It is a socially distanced workout space that can hold up to 50 people and offers services from relaxing meditation to intense strength training. The NFL team players have also resorted to creative measures to get their workout in. For instance, Matthew Slater from the New England Patriots mentioned in an interview that he realized he had workout weights right at home — his three children! So far the NFL season is on track to kick off next month in Kansas City. Cover up While the federal government of the United States of America is faltering in dealing with the coronavirus, the beloved food chain brands of the country have stepped up to do their part to help stop the spread. While there is no national mandate to wear a mask, companies such as Starbucks, Panera Bread, Chipotle and McDonald’s made it a requirement for customers entering their stores to wear a mask. Wearing a mask has become a matter of national political debate in the US. Anti-maskers believe that masks inhibit their breathing and a mandate to wear masks encroaches upon their freedom. This brings to mind the seat belt mandate that got passed after many years of legislative debates. The views opposing seat belts and masks are eerily similar — both claiming they have more negative effects than positive. Seat belts were also viewed as an obstruction to personal freedom. Since the lockdown and more than half of all states putting in place mandatory mask requirements, videos of mask-free supermarket customers flailing their arms have gone viral on the internet. One faction of anti-maskers commonly believe that while private companies can put in place mask regulations, the government should not. The digital media company, Vox, reported that members of a Facebook group circulated a list of stores with mask requirements, discussing boycotting those retailers or visiting to try to challenge the rules. People who oppose masks do so by citing the 14th Amendment of the US Constitution. “No states are allowed to make laws that take our freedoms and liberties away.”Great shock Shockwaves spread among moviegoers as Disney officially announced that it would not be releasing the heavily-anticipated movie, Mulan, in theatres. Instead, it will be released on Disney’s streaming platform, Disney+, which is available in the US. But it will not be available to all subscribers. One will have to pay $29.99 to watch the film at home by rental (on top of the $6.99 monthly subscription charge). Disney is conducting this experiment to see how much viewers are willing to dole out and forgo the movie-going experience. It also indicates how much Disney is relying on Disney+ for revenue at a time when its theme park and retail stores have suffered a blow on account of Covid-19. Disney spent $200 million in production and $100 million on marketing for Mulan. In early March, Disney had the red carpet rolled out in Los Angeles to launch its big theatrical release. Three days after the premiere, the pandemic caused the release to be shelved. Industry experts are speculating whether this move will prove the ‘video on demand’ model viable and put an end to the brick-and-mortar theatre industry. When movies are released at the box office, the revenue is shared between the movie theatre and the production house. But with a digital release on its own platform, Disney keeps it all.Momentous occasion In August, we not only celebrate India’s independence but also Indian culture and heritage in the US, although this time all the fun and festivities will be virtual. In Pennsylvania, the Lehigh Valley India Heritage Day was shifted online. The programme will open with a welcome note by the mayor of Allentown and remarks by US representative, Susan Wild. Both the Indian national anthem and the US national anthem will be performed. In New York City, to celebrate India’s Independence Day, Times Square will hoist the Indian flag (for the first time ever) while the Empire State Building will be lit up with the colours of the flag the day before. This has been organized by the Federation of Indian Associations of the tri-state regions of New York, New Jersey and Connecticut. The guest of honour at the event will be the consul general of India in New York, Randhir Jaiswal. The India Day Parade in Manhattan takes place every year with leading US politicians, Indian celebrities and members of the Indian-American community in attendance. However, owing to the pandemic, the parade has been cancelled this year and the virtual Independence Day celebration at Times Square will be live streamed.FOOTNOTE Mount Rushmore in South Dakota has the carved faces of four US presidents. Last week there was immense speculation that Donald Trump had asked for his face to be carved there too. While the president denies this, he did tweet saying he thinks it would be a good idea. The South Dakota governor, Kristi Noem, had reportedly greeted Trump on his recent visit to the state with a 1.2 metre replica of the monument that already included his face as a fifth part.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-164
15-08-2020||Opinion||Two anniversaries||On the 15th of August 2007 — the sixtieth anniversary of Indian Independence — I published an article in the Hindustan Times about how our country was doing. At that stage, there was much talk about India being an emerging superpower. China had already made its mark on the international stage; and it was apparently now our turn. The 21st century was to be an Asian Century, where the rest of the world would watch with wonder and admiration while China and India dominated the spheres of economics and politics much as the United States of America had in the 20th century and Great Britain had in the 19th century. These exultant anticipations of our imminent global greatness had two principal sets of cheerleaders: entrepreneurs in Mumbai and Bangalore and editors in New Delhi. The previous year, these groups had pooled their energies into hosting a splendid show at the World Economic Forum in Davos which boasted of India being the “World’s Fastest Growing Democracy”. The last word of this tagline was a sly dig at China; it signalled to American and European firms that their employees would find India a much more congenial place to live and work in while, at the same time, getting a handsome return on their investment as well. Entrepreneurs are by temperament optimistic, even utopian. On the other hand, historians are by temperament sceptical, even cynical. Drawing on this professional DNA, my article in the Hindustan Times on 15th August 2007 argued that our ambitions to dominate the world were unrealistic. There remained deep fault lines of caste, class and religion; our institutions were not quite as robust as the framers of the Constitution had imagined them to be, while widespread environmental degradation posed serious questions about the sustainability of economic development. The tale being told at Davos and beyond did not really reflect these realities on the ground. Our country was not, I concluded, about to become a superpower; rather, India “would muddle along in the middle, as it always had”. I knew that my entrepreneur friends would find my assessment dismayingly pessimistic. They did, at the time; but looking back at what I wrote thirteen years ago to the day, it seems I was, in fact, excessively optimistic. In the years prior to the 60th anniversary of Indian Independence, the economy was growing at a robust 8 per cent per annum. Before the pandemic began, it had already plummeted to 4 per cent per annum; and now it shall be resoundingly in the negative. Whatever the truth of the claim made in 2006 and 2007, for some years now we have not been the ‘world’s fastest growing democracy’. Moreover, the last word in that tagline also looks increasingly suspect now. Our economy no longer grows fast; and one cannot really describe India as a functioning democracy any more. I have in earlier columns described the systematic capture of public institutions by the party in power. Our civil service, our investigative agencies, the army, the Reserve Bank of India, the Election Commission, even to some extent the judiciary, are increasingly seen as partisan, acting on orders from the politicians who control them. The secretive electoral bonds have further vitiated the integrity of the democratic process; as have the buying and selling of legislators in different state assemblies. Meanwhile, large sections of the media have capitulated to Narendra Modi and the Bharatiya Janata Party; the small part that remains brave and independent-minded is subject to intense harassment by the State. I once poked fun at those who, back in 2007, spoke grandly of India’s superpower ambitions. Truth be told, at the time I was a cheerleader for India itself. Not for its economy, but for other things. I had praised India’s democracy, cautiously; and its cultural and religious pluralism, exuberantly. That India then had a Sikh prime minister who had been sworn in by a Muslim president, that our currency notes carried their denomination in seventeen different languages, indeed seventeen different scripts — all this seemed to me an emphatic vindication of the ideals of the founders of the Republic. In retrospect, the electoral defeat of the BJP in 2004 and then again in 2009 made liberals like myself complacent about the future of Hindutva. For despite those defeats, Hindutva had not diminished either as a political force or as a powerful, and powerfully malign, idea. Powered by the charismatic personality of Modi, the BJP won a majority in the elections of 2014. Modi’s first term as prime minister will be chiefly remembered for the disastrous experiment with demonetization that set back the Indian economy by many years. The first year of his second term as prime minister will be remembered for the abolition of Article 370 and the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, which together delivered a body blow to Indian pluralism. What other havoc Modi and his government may cause to our economy and our society in the years to follow remains to be seen. Back in August 2007, it was premature perhaps to speak of India as an emerging superpower. But there was nonetheless an ‘India Story’ of sorts; of a large, complex, heterogeneous territory that had somehow made itself into a single, unified nation-state; of a patriarchal and not-very-literate society that had somehow managed to successfully organize many iterations of the largest exercise of the democratic franchise in the history of the world; of a land scarred for centuries by famine and deprivation that had lifted hundreds of millions of people out of poverty while forging ahead in cutting-edge sectors such as information technology and biotechnology. Back in August 2007, crude boosterism and anticipations of global greatness were unwarranted; but a quiet, understated pride in our not insubstantial achievements since Independence perhaps was not. Now, in August 2020, there is no ‘India Story’ of any sort any more. Even before Covid-19 hit our shores, our economy was in a shambles. Our democracy was widely seen as corrupt and corroded. Our minorities were frightened and insecure. Even the entrepreneurs I know, who were once so hopeful and optimistic, were pervaded by a sense of doom and gloom. And now the pandemic has come along to further intensify our economic woes, our social cleavages, and our democratic deficits. It will take years to set the economy back on track; and whether the institutional fabric of our democracy and the pluralistic ethos of our society can ever recover from the damage done to them since 2014 is an open question. It is for future historians to fully and authoritatively document how our slide as a nation began, and to critically assess which individuals and institutions were responsible, and in what ways, for this decline. My own view is that the seeds of our fall were sown during the second term of Manmohan Singh, although the real damage has been done since Modi became prime minister. But what is not in dispute is this. On the sixtieth anniversary of Indian Independence, 15th August 2007, one could at least debate whether our country was a superpower in the making. Now, thirteen years later, such a debate would be farcical in the extreme. ramachandraguha@yahoo.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-164
