16-08-2020||Opinion||Mountains and men||Faith, the wise ones believe, can move mountains. But can the mountain find faith — political faith — to be a moving experience? This question has arisen on account of an unprecedented request by the maverick president of the United States of America. It has been reported that Donald Trump, during a visit to Dakota, had enquired of the governor of the possibility of adding his visage to the Mount Rushmore Memorial, a gigantic culmination of political and artistic sensibility, which has the faces of four former US presidents carved in rock. The governor, apparently, mistook Mr Trump’s request to be an instance of presidential humour. But the current president — he faces a tough re-election this year — cannot be blamed for lacking humour in uniform. Mr Trump has shown, time and again, that he can be dead earnest when it comes to pandering to the bizarre. Mr Trump has, characteristically, denied that his team had made such a plea. Such a volte-face is not unexpected from a hot-under-the-collar president. The point, really, is not about who is speaking the truth. Neither can it be about the merit of Mr Trump’s ‘dream’: he is on record — a rally in 2017 can be cited as one example — saying that he wished — are not politicians known to nurse colossal ambition? — Mount Rushmore had a fifth face: that of his own. Never mind the fact that Mr Trump would appear like the proverbial Lilliputian on a slope dominated by the likes of George Washington, Thomas Jefferson, Theodore Roosevelt and Abraham Lincoln, who are believed to represent the spirit of the US’s birth, growth, development and preservation, in that order. Mr Trump’s opponents believe that he is, in fact, the very antithesis of the vision nursed by the US’s tallest figures. The real issue, therefore, is the all-too-human attraction towards self-preservation for posterity. History shows that of all tribes, politicians, across the ideological spectrum, are the most at risk. The two Athenians who purged their city-state of authoritarianism had erected statues to commemorate their feat. Dictators, like liberators, cannot do without their fair share of giant replicas. One of Turkmenistan’s presidents erected a golden statue of himself, declaring — without contrition — that the installation had been commissioned at the behest of the people. Unfortunately for Mr Trump and his peers, gold and stone, much like humans, have proven to be mortal. Political memorials are rightfully viewed as repositories of contested ideas. This makes them fragile. Decolonization in Asia and Africa witnessed the toppling of colonial art and figurines. This turmoil continues if the acrimonious, global debate over statues — be it of the slave trader, Edward Colston, or that of a Black Lives Matter protester — is any indication. The tug-of-war between icons and iconoclastism is ceaseless. Politics has blessed this conflict — not politicians — with immortality.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-163
16-08-2020||Opinion|| Prose over poetry||When I saw on Wednesday morning that Kamala Harris had released a short video marking and celebrating her selection as Joe Biden’s running mate, I clicked — eagerly and instantly. I wanted to continue riding my wave of excitement about all the firsts: first woman of colour on a major party’s presidential ticket, first Black woman specifically, first Asian-American. By the time I finished the video, that wave had crashed. Ok, that’s an overstatement. But as I listened to her flat, desultory recitation of her biography and philosophy, I did feel a sense of frustration, and it was familiar. I’d wrestled with the same let-down during the Democratic primary, when the experience of Harris didn’t live up to the idea of Harris. She often skipped or skimmed over facets of her background that she would have benefited from dwelling on. She frequently zoomed past the poetry to the prose, more a steely lawyer rattling off lists than a soulful leader serving up inspiration.Harris the prosecutor can find the holes in your argument and make you tremble. But can Harris the history-making vice-presidential candidate find the cracks in your heart and make you cry? That’s certainly not a requirement — most politicians fail to do that — and I’m not complaining per se. As I wrote when the news broke, her presence on the Democratic ticket makes total sense in terms of the experience that she possesses, the values that she represents, and the contrast that she helps Biden draw between his politics of inclusion and Donald Trump’s politics of division. I’m articulating a wish, one that’s tied to my belief that a decent future for this country hinges on an end to Trump’s presidency and my concern that Biden and Harris use every arrow in their quivers to defeat him. I’m venting a worry that Harris doesn’t fully use one of her arrows. She did poorly in the Democratic primary because, yes, her campaign was a mess. But she also did poorly because she never discovered the right, stirring way to tell and sell her story. I wanted her to discover it on Wednesday night, when she spoke at the Democratic National Convention (or however we’re describing its virtual facsimile). I want her to hold on to it between that day and November 3 because I want to call her the vice-president of the United States of America soon after that. Although Trump would cringe at the following thought and never understand it, Harris reflects this country’s ideals and its reality much better than he does. “Her story’s America’s story,” Biden said when he and she first appeared together as running mates on Wednesday afternoon. He’s right, and I want her to embrace and flesh out that thought at every turn. She’s the biracial daughter of immigrants: Jamaican father, Indian mother, both beckoned to this country of newcomers and transplants. Growing up in California’s Bay Area, she was bused to an elementary school in a richer, whiter neighbourhood than her own, so she knows the fact of segregation and the dream of integration from the road she travelled. She understands how families, despite their best intentions, fray. Her parents divorced, and when her mother found teaching and research work in Montreal, she moved for her middle and high school years to that largely white, French-speaking city. For college she went to Howard, a historically Black university in Washington, D.C. that allowed her to appraise America — its past, present and future — from a different vantage point. From there she forged her own path, with her own rules. She didn’t marry until she was 49. Her husband is white and Jewish and she’s a stepmother to his two children. What a rich mix of influences: as multiracial, multiethnic and multicultural as the country in which her parents wisely invested their hopes. What a portrait of life as it’s lived, with all sorts of swerves. In her public remarks she makes references to some of this, but they’re usually just that — references. After she mentioned school busing (“that little girl was me”) to attack Biden in a primary debate for his opposition to it, I went back and looked at the big speech that she’d given to kick off her presidential campaign. Busing was nowhere to be found. In fact her speech didn’t have all that much biographical detail, period, at least if you edited out the professional stuff. It was strikingly impersonal. I recently read much of her memoir, The Truths We Hold: An American Journey, published shortly before that speech, and came away with the same impression. She gives you less of her history than you expect, not more. She steers away from emotion, not towards it. Maybe that’s what a woman aiming for top jobs in a man’s world has to do. Maybe that’s even more incumbent on a woman of colour. A scintilla too angry and you’re unhinged. A soupçon too misty and you’re unraveling. It’s worth noting that when Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez stood in the House last month to call out the misogynistic remarks of a male colleague, she twice stressed that she was speaking from the perspective of principle, not of upset. “I want to be clear that Representative Yoho’s comments were not deeply hurtful or piercing to me,” she said, adding that she was made of tougher stuff than that. She later reiterated that she “was not deeply hurt or offended.” To be at all emotional, she had to establish that she was unemotional. A male lawmaker wouldn’t have felt that need. John Boehner, the House Speaker from 2011 to 2015, certainly didn’t: he was famous for weeping at the drop of an amendment. If Nancy Pelosi behaved as soggily, she’d be savaged. But in the book, The Firsts, about the women who entered Congress in record-breaking numbers after the 2018 midterms, Jennifer Steinhauer of The New York Times notes that several of those newcomers did permit themselves to tear up at appropriate times — for example, when discussing an issue that had greatly affected them or their loved ones — and it came across as authentic, not weak. Maybe the world is changing for the better. Or maybe there’s more allowance for women in House seats than for women in even higher posts. The Kamala Harris I’ve met and chatted with informally, in person, is warmer and more winning than the version I’ve watched on the stump. More transparent. More accessible. And I saw flashes of her on Wednesday afternoon, during that appearance with Biden, when her huge smiles suggested that she couldn’t contain her exhilaration. She shouldn’t try. Her story is genuinely exhilarating. Storytelling is everything. Trump won the presidency with a story about America that appealed to many Americans. It mixed imaginary villains with real ones, lies with truths. But he told it expansively. He told it effectively. Obama’s rise was rooted in his own story, in the eloquence with which he spoke of Kenya and Kansas and how their commingling inside him was the American dream. I can’t count the number of times, on his path to the White House, that he put a lump in my throat. Harris’s story is the rival of Obama’s. She just has to give it a comparably mythic shimmer. I know “that little girl” was her. But I want to know more about her, and I want to hear her voice. New York Times News Service||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-164
16-08-2020||Opinion||Teach a man to fish||Sir — After an initial dip in supplies, markets are now flush with hilsa. Although this is still nothing compared to the quantity of catch in other years. One of the reasons for this is the low pressure in the region. The depleted stocks of fish are worrying for more than just the bhojon roshik Bengali. Fishermen have already been rendered vulnerable by climate change and its effects on marine life and coastal communities. The dangers of over-consumption cannot be underlined enough. The job losses that resulted from the pandemic only make fishermen more desperate to overfish. This is dangerous. Roshni Sen
Calcutta Sir — Reports about the deaths of men and women who venture into the depths of the forest in the Sunderbans to catch fish and crabs or gather honey at the hands of tigers are not uncommon. Recently, a mason who lost his job in Calcutta during the pandemic and returned to his home in the Sunderbans was mauled to death by a tiger (“Jobless mason killed by tiger”, Aug 13). This might not seem out of the ordinary, but it is. The residents of the Sunderbans are bearing a double burden of misfortunes. First, it was the pandemic and then the Cyclone Amphan, which inundated fields and ponds with saline water, leaving them unfit for cultivation. It must be noted that the families of people killed without a fishing permit are not entitled to any government compensation. But should this rule be adhered to in the light of the extraordinary circumstances? The section that is most vulnerable is that of the ‘tiger-widows’. They are suddenly left without any earning member or means of livelihood. Since there is little to no chance of the immediate restoration of the livelihoods of the labourers who went back home, the situation calls for immediate intervention on the part of the government and special packages tailored to the needs of people in the Sunderbans. Jahar Saha
Calcutta Sir — The claim of the Russian president, Vladimir Putin, that Russia has developed a vaccine for the novel coronavirus ahead of other countries has — understandably — been met with scepticism around the world. It appears to have been made in the fond hope that it will earn laurels for Russia. Perhaps the rushed announcement was to pre-empt some other countries who have similar vaccine projects in the pipeline. Putin cannot take the liberty of shortening a marathon into a sprint in contravention of global guidelines set by the scientific community. He has no right to risk the lives of thousands of people. According to Putin, the Russian coronavirus vaccine called Sputnik-V has shown “sustainable immunity” against SARS-CoV-2 — the president did not elaborate on this. The revelation that one of Putin’s daughters was among the vaccine volunteers and has been inoculated with Sputnik-V and has “felt well after having slight high fever” means nothing in the absence of definitive proof that the vaccine is safe and effective. The fear that a vaccine has been rushed through without following proper protocol is dangerous, and will cause more harm not just to Russia’s image but also the vaccines that come after it. By its own admission, Russia has not done the crucial third phase of clinical trials. It has not done enough testing; what is more, it has not made public the results of whatever tests it conducted for rigorous analysis. It is evident from the speed with which Sputnik-V has been developed that Russia cut corners and bypassed certain parameters. The third phase involving several thousands of participants representing or cutting across the general world population in all its heterogeneity is indispensable to confirm a vaccine’s safety and efficacy. The World Health Organization has not given its stamp of approval to Russia’s Sputnik-V. In the absence of evidence that Russia’s vaccine will not do recipients any harm, people will be reluctant to use it. A vaccine mired in opacity can be no less dangerous than a life-threatening pathogen after all. G. David Milton
Maruthancode, Tamil Nadu||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-164
16-08-2020||Opinion||Caught! When BJP IT cell chief got too clever by half||On August 13, Amit Malviya, the chief of the Bharatiya Janata Party’s IT cell, said that Narendra Modi has become the longest serving non-Congress prime minister of the country. He surpassed the record of his party senior, Atal Bihari Vajpayee, of 2,268 days as PM. But beating Vajpayee is not exciting enough for either Modi or his party. He has already left behind all others in the BJP and emerged as the tallest leader the sangh parivar has ever had. So the information technology cell of the BJP came up with another statistic to show that Modi had surpassed both India’s first PM, Jawaharlal Nehru, and also his daughter and former PM, Indira Gandhi. Malviya tweeted a comparative chart and wrote that PM Modi has “served for the longest time as head of an elected government”. He said that from being the chief minister of Gujarat to becoming a two-term PM, Modi has been in office for 18 years and 306 days — a total of 6,878 days — beating Nehru’s tally of 6,130 days and Indira’s count of 5,829 days. Social media, however, caught Malviya’s jugglery. One Twitter user replied that Pawan Kumar Chamling was the CM of Sikkim from December 12, 1994 to May 26, 2019, that is, 24.4 years or 8,932 days. The Twitter user asked Malviya if he does not count Sikkim to be a part of India. The BJP IT cell boss had tried to be too clever by half by selecting only former PMs to project Modi as the greatest. There was a stage when the camp of the Rajasthan chief minister, Ashok Gehlot, was not very sure of the loyalty of all the members of the legislative assembly who were holed up at Hotel Fairmont in Jaipur. The Sachin Pilot camp, too, fuelled speculation by talking of hidden support which would come to the surface once the MLAs were freed from captivity. Gehlot, who went to the hotel almost daily, was, on a particular night, discussing strategies with his colleagues. Tired after a long day’s work, the 69-year-old CM, sitting in a chair at around 2 am, was found humming the Hindi song, “Main zindagi ka saath nibhata chala gaya/ Har fikr ko dhuyen mein udata chala gaya...” This inspired the MLAs so much that they resolved to stay with Gehlot come what may, no matter for how long the crisis stretched. The veteran political leader was tense amid the political crisis even though he never showed any sign of surrender and resolutely led the fight from the front to save the government. But the song that flitted through his mind — it was from Dev Anand’s blockbuster, Hum Dono — suggested that he was going through the mill without any worry. Months have passed since the Union home minister, Amit Shah, fixed a deadline and prodded Central paramilitary forces to buy only ‘swadeshi’ products. But the ministry is still not ready with the list of such products. Ministry officials are at their wits’ end because of the confusion over what constitutes swadeshi (indigenous) and videshi (foreign) products. In the absence of a clear definition, officials are still trying to figure out if it excludes products made locally by international brands. A first attempt at the end of May to de-list non-swadeshi products had to be withdrawn as it included goods made by Indian companies. Since then, the decision-makers have been walking on eggshells. The political crisis in Rajasthan, in spite of having ended well for the Congress, has triggered anxiety in other Opposition-ruled states like Punjab, Jharkhand and Maharashtra. While Punjab is better placed as the BJP has no clout there and the chief minister, Amarinder Singh, is in full command, Maharashtra and Jharkhand are feeling jittery. The first thing that Congress MLAs from both Maharashtra and Jharkhand expect from the high command are general secretaries who are actively involved in the states’ affairs. The unease of the general secretary in charge of Maharashtra, Mallikarjun Kharge, is rising as his movements are restricted because of age and health issues. Kharge rarely visits Maharashtra and his commitment to the alliance with the Shiv Sena and the Nationalist Congress Party is also in doubt. The latest allegation against him is that he cannot take everybody together. Many Maharashtra leaders have already asked for the appointment of a new and more active general secretary. Kharge anyway is tipped to replace Ghulam Nabi Azad as the leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha in the coming months, making it easier for the high command to relieve him of the taxing gen-sec assignment. In Jharkhand, the in-charge, RPN Singh, has several critics who have started complaining to the Central leadership. Worse, RPN has of late created enemies in the high command structure too, making his position even less secure. The Karnataka BJP chief, Nalin Kumar Kateel, is trying to tame his party colleague and Lok Sabha member, Ananth Kumar Hegde, after the latter called BSNL employees “traitors”. But the fact is that several presidents before Kateel had tried in vain to control the motor-mouth. Although both Hegde and Kateel are favourites of the RSS, some BJP veterans are asking who can bell the cat, considering Hegde’s huge popularity in his Uttara Kannada constituency.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-164
