17-08-2020||Opinion||Talk it out: Parliament monsoon session||Sir — Parliament is gearing up for the monsoon session, putting in place adequate measures to check the spread of the coronavirus. One can only hope that after such elaborate efforts, there is actual debate and discussion in Parliament instead of the usual steamrolling of bills by the ruling dispensation at the Centre, using its brute majority. Otherwise there is no reason to risk lives.Rima Roy,Calcutta Sinister plot Sir — The film, Sadak 2, has waded right into the nepotism debate raging in Bollywood. The film’s trailer has received a record number of dislikes on YouTube. No one should support nepotism; it is wrong and Bollywood is far from the only sphere in India affected by it. But is not deciding that a film is bad before even watching it based on a controversy as bad as overlooking talent? But the current debate on nepotism goes far deeper than is apparent at first. The theme of inequality is conspicuously absent in the nepotism discourse. Its preferred binary is not privileged versus non-privileged but outsider versus insider, with all the outrage reserved for the insiders. The idea is not to call for a level playing field but to stoke the so-called outsider’s desire to displace the insider as the new insider, without dismantling the insider-outsider structure as such. More important, beneath the veneer of moral righteousness, the nepotism discourse is also powered by right-wing majoritarian elements. This aspect remains understated, if not hidden, thereby enabling the discourse to get traction across the political spectrum, including from liberals. The nepotism discourse is right-wing populist in the same way that the anti-corruption movement was, with both having the same objective: channelling public resentment against traditional elites.Aditya Bannerjee,GurgaonSelfish motive Sir — Sachin Pilot has not yet left the Congress. Is it because the young leader sensed that changing political colours to consolidate power would diminish his popularity within the electorate? It is hard for people to believe that it is commitment to political ideology that made Pilot stick with the Congress. If indeed he cared about the Congress, why did he create this situation in the first place, knowing that his antics could be exploited by the Bharatiya Janata Party to disrespect the people’s will in Rajasthan and usurp power? Pilot may not have jumped ship yet, but he has lost the trust reposed in him.Ashok Sen,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-163
17-08-2020||Opinion||Costly business: Covid-19 and medical insurance||The Covid-19 outbreak in India has bared gaps in public health and the healthcare system. This is borne by revelations that the private hospital bills of insured Covid-19 patients who have not taken a virus-specific policy now include “non-medical” expenses such as the cost of personal protective equipment, face masks, gloves and hand sanitizers — expenditure that is not covered by insurance agencies. Even at the best of times, treatment at private hospitals is too costly for a vast section of the Indian population. It is, however, a matter of great concern when healthcare — the accessibility and affordability of which ought not to be compromised at the time of a pandemic — is being effectively put out of the reach of even those citizens who can, in fact, afford medical insurance. Insurance companies have cut a sorry figure for themselves during the pandemic; there have been reports of insurers refusing to extend coverage to healthcare workers after the coronavirus outbreak, so much so that the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India had to intervene. Given the ever-mutating nature of the illness, it stands to reason that healthcare policies designed to combat it must take into account the need for flexibility in both treatment and insurance plans. This, however, has evidently not come to pass. The IRDAI must ascertain whether profit continues to be the overriding motivator in the process of insurance policy-making. Worryingly, exclusion seems to be embedded in other institutional responses to the crisis. Take the case of the notification issued by the West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission: it says that even though private hospitals must grant provisional admission to Covid patients who are unable to make the advance payment of Rs 50,000, healthcare institutes would reserve the right to cancel the admission if the sum is not deposited within 12 hours. There is, admittedly, another side of the problem. Patients’ refusal to pay has forced a number of hospitals to introduce stringent measures in order to recover the costs of treatment. The net result — unsurprisingly — is a severe trust deficit between hospital authorities and patients. Given the complexity of the problem — it involves questions of patients’ rights to treatment, an inclusive healthcare apparatus as well as financial viability of healthcare hospitals — India would do well to study international models for universal healthcare that strike the right balance among these imperatives. The model for India, however, will have to take into account conditions specific to India: poverty, a poor people to hospital ratio, burgeoning population and so on. Deliberations on the formulation of an equitable, universal health programme must be representative and fully transparent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-163
17-08-2020||Opinion||Others too: Recognise Sarna in Census||Coercion has many forms. It can be direct, a way only too familiar nowadays, or it can be insidious, manifesting its effects gradually. The quiet narrowing down of choice of religion for the indigenous peoples of India on the census form is a good example of the second. On the census form in 1951, they had a column entitled ‘Tribe’, distinct from the named religions. This suggested that the religious beliefs of indigenous people did not have to be acknowledged with the ‘main’ religious systems. Different tribes were lumped together with numerically sparse populations, such as Parsis — there was no need, apparently, to distinguish among them. The disinterest in ancient animistic religions pushed a larger group of people than the followers of named religions, such as Jainism or Buddhism, towards a kind of anonymity — and the attitude remained unchanged. Later census forms had ‘Others’ as the extra column, which, however, allowed the noting of separate beliefs, such as Sarna, a form of nature worship followed by a large number of tribes. The demand to include Sarna as a separate column on the census form has been growing in intensity in the last few years, and the Jharkhand Mukti Morcha-led government that took over power in Jharkhand in 2019, promised to make this possible. Now the apprehension that the 2021 census form will not even have the ‘Others’ column has led to the 32 tribal groups in Jharkhand threatening to boycott the census unless ‘Sarna’ is included under religions. Otherwise they would be forced either to not record their religion at all or to show themselves as adherents of Hinduism, Islam, Christianity, Sikhism, Buddhism or Jainism. The tribes of Jharkhand have promised to make this into a tribal movement covering all tribe-inhabited states, especially because they suspect that the removal of the ‘Others’ column is a Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh-Bharatiya Janata Party ruse to compel tribes to register under Hinduism. It would not be surprising if the indifference of earlier political regimes have cleared the way for Hindutva interests. Perhaps it is time to include columns under the heads of the main tribal religions as well as one marked ‘Others’ as recompense. The constitutional freedom to practise one’s own religion implies other people’s respect for it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-163
17-08-2020||Opinion||An unusual gift: Life and works of Mira Chaudhuri||I came across this book by chance in my friend’s collection. It is an unusual book: part photography book, part memoir, part private, part published, bound in purple cloth with an exquisite floral design in bright Rajasthani mirror-work embroidery on the cover. The embroidery, feels my friend, could have been the work of the author, Mira Chaudhuri, herself, though by the time the book was made, designed by her, she was quite old and frail. Born in 1905, Chaudhuri was a photographer. Among the people she photographed are the stalwarts of the political and cultural worlds of pre- and post-Independence India, many of whom she knew very closely. Rabindranath Tagore, her father’s friend and an all-pervasive presence in her book, was one of her subjects, as was Gandhi. Rabindranath doted on her, as shown by some of the delightful letters he had written to her. She photographed the eminent cast of artists and teachers in Rabindranath’s Santiniketan, as also Jawaharlal Nehru and Khan Abdul Ghaffar Khan. Vijaya Lakshmi Pandit was a personal friend. As were Stella Kramrisch, Kamaladevi Chattopadhyay and Aruna Asaf Ali. Her father was Dwijendranath Maitra, resident surgeon at Mayo Hospital, also her subject and the person who had gifted her her first camera when she was 10. Satyajit Ray used some of her photographs for the film he made on Rabindranath. But Chaudhuri, who hardly speaks about herself except to say that she is blessed to be in such company, also went on remarkable journeys by herself. She went alone to Kashmir in the late 1930s, though she stayed with family friends. She went to Amarnath, photographing, often from horseback, the unforgiving slopes and the unrelenting ice. During the Bengal Famine of 1943, she travelled with Vijaya Lakshmi through the most affected parts of Bengal, including Barisal and Bhola, photographing the face of death. One wonders how Chaudhuri, a gentle, self-effacing person, and a woman, sari-clad, radical in no obvious way — the camera till very recently was a male apparatus — went about taking photographs, which can be an act of intrusion. And how she looked at her relationship with the camera. The structure of the book is a clue. Chaudhuri was requested by a Bengali magazine to write her memoirs. This led to a serialization from the Eighties in the magazine of her accounts of these personalities. But the book that I hold in my hands is more than that. In it, the published pieces, which carry photographs taken by her of these personalities, are photocopied and appear on the right. The black-and-white photocopied images look blurred now. But on the blank sides of the pages, appearing on the left, Chaudhuri pastes her original pictures, also in black and white, and sharp and observant, writing the captions in her own hand. The texts are often about the gifts she got from those she is remembering: Rabindranath’s visit to see how her foot was healing, a frail Abanindranath’s eyes misting when she visits him, Kamaladevi insisting on visiting the small outfit of handicrafts and embroidery Chaudhuri had started, Stella Kramrisch writing her letters full of love for Chaudhuri and her family. Remarkable people could prove difficult subjects for the camera, deliberately. Kramrisch would not be photographed and Gandhiji proved almost elusive, with a twinkle in his eye. But most of all, the book is about the gift of friendship, laughter and conversation, and being a part of other lives. At the time of writing her accounts, Chaudhuri, in her eighties, is confined to her room because of her health. Yet she is making things, including books, and memories, for others. Her book is not just a photographer’s work. She writes to the couple for whom she has made the book a lovely little note on the first page, following which is a handwritten, though photocopied preface. The book is a great gift. Yes, she writes from a position of great privilege. But in times when politics is only dividing us and the pandemic is isolating us, it is good to come across such an act of generosity. And the nation she captured through her lens looks like a different country, worth remembering.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-163
17-08-2020||Opinion||The game is afoot: Elections in Myanmar||Myanmar’s pro-democracy icon, Aung San Suu Kyi, seems all set to lead her National League for Democracy back to power in the November 8 elections after avoiding a major confrontation with the country’s all-powerful military. Suu Kyi, realizing that discretion is the better part of valour, abandoned the NLD’s efforts to change the Constitution that bars her from contesting for presidentship, gives the army 25 per cent of seats in Parliament and control over three crucial security-related ministries — home, defence and border affairs. An amendment to the Constitution can only get passed if it garners 75 per cent of the vote. If the army were to oppose the NLD-sponsored amendments and get one or two per cent of civilian lawmakers to support it, no amendment would go through. Three years ago, Suu Kyi had told me on the sidelines of a democracy convention that she was no longer “an icon sitting on the wall but a flesh-and-blood Burmese politician determined to survive”. She is indeed living up to this role. She has pleased the army by refusing international demands to investigate atrocities on Rohingyas in the Rakhine province and has challenged an ICJ trial of army officers held responsible for the same. “This army is one created by my father, Marshal Aung Sang, for Burma’s liberation,” she said two years ago, betraying no bitterness for her years in prison and house arrest and the denial of power to her by her ‘father’s army’. Suu Kyi has shifted from vague-eyed idealism to hard-nosed political realism. She has also abandoned her Western-style democracy model and US-style federalism that she was committed to. Both these moves have kept the army in good humour. But there would be many casualties if Suu Kyi continues with this policy. Myanmar’s evolution as a democracy would suffer with no end to draconian censorship laws and no space for legitimate political dissent, as would Suu Kyi’s ‘Second Panglong’, a comprehensive peace dialogue with ethnic rebel armies. The ethnic rebellions will continue because the rebels would see that there is no scope for dialogue to end the stalemate. The continuation of conflict suits the military as it would justify the raison d’être for its existence and expansion. However, as the conflict continues and intensifies in areas like Kachin and Rakhine, the Burmese military is pushing for a change in foreign policy direction to suit its strategic interests. The army — and now Suu Kyi — has warmed up to India because the Tatmadaw is desperately seeking Indian military support to crush the increasingly-powerful Arakan Army, which has announced a ‘final fight’ to liberate the Arakans in a close tactical, if not political, alliance with the Arakan Rohingya Salvation Army. India is upset with the Arakan Army because it is obstructing its ambitious multi-million dollar Kaladan multi-modal connectivity project to link the Indian mainland to the Northeast by a sea-river-road route (Sittwe port-Paletwa by Kaladan river-Zorinpui on the Mizoram border by road). Arakan Army sources told me they have information about Indian preparations for surgical and drone strikes — something that the Indian army denies. Myanmar is also upset with China and has, for the first time since 1980s, lashed out at Beijing’s double standards, even cancelling some critical BRI projects. It released 22 northeastern Indian rebels who were in its custody and flew them back recently. The India-Myanmar military bonhomie augurs well for the mutual management of trans-border insurgencies. It would also deny Northeast rebels the opportunity to receive help from China. That may lead to Bangladesh sulking because it wants India to create more pressure on Myanmar for Rohingya refugee repatriation. The United States of America has also backed India in its plans to crush the China-funded and armed rebels like the Arakan Army. The attack on China by the Yangon-based senior diplomat, George Sibley, for supporting insurgencies and undermining Burmese sovereignty, clearly pointed to the emerging equations in the region. As the Asia-watcher, Bertil Lintner, says, this will become the most complex theatre of what he describes as the “Great Game East”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-163
17-08-2020||Opinion||Stifling embrace||The new education policy comes cloaked in pious platitudes and ostensibly progressive pronouncements. It is only by peeling away the layers of obfuscation that we get a clear insight into the ways in which it is poised to blight the future of our younger generation. The announcement of the policy bypassing Parliament and any real consultation with the states is one more brazen and cynical attempt to advance the ruling configuration’s ideological agenda under the cover of Covid-19. It is a recipe for unenlightened over-centralization. The policy contains some acceptable prescriptions, which one would expect in any twenty-first century reformulation of perspectives on education. The choice of the mother tongue as the medium of instruction in primary school, the move away from the rigid bifurcation between arts and science streams in high school, a measure of flexibility in changing subjects in a four-year college education and a presumption that there should be something universal and not narrowly technical about universities are among the less contentious features of the policy. However, English should be taught as a second language at the primary level even while having the regional language as the medium of instruction. An entire generation in Bengal suffered as a consequence of the Left Front government’s short-sighted decision to do away with English in primary school. We cannot afford to repeat that mistake at the all-India level. Despite bandying about the phrase, “graded autonomy”, the policy leaves no room for genuine autonomy of academic institutions and threatens to extinguish federal autonomy in the domain of education. Properly a state subject for nearly three decades after Independence, education was moved to the concurrent list during an authoritarian interregnum in Indian politics. The new policy bears all the over-centralizing impulse of the current regime in New Delhi. It leaves inadequate space for the reflection of the diversity of India in curricular content at any level of education. The worst feature of the National Education Policy is the provision for a single regulator of higher education. Much will depend, of course, on who gets appointed to this all-powerful body. The present government’s record gives rise to the legitimate fear that it will be packed with the regime’s favoured ideologues rather than bona fide educationists. The proposed central regulatory body is invested with all-encompassing authority without mechanisms for consultation and coordination with any state regulatory body that states may choose to establish or with their departments of higher education. The establishment of this single regulator should be vigorously opposed in Parliament and non-BJP ruled states should set up robust state regulatory bodies to contest the imposition from the Centre. Even though medical and legal education are to be left out of the scope of the single regulator for higher education, the Central government’s interventions in medical colleges have alienated most thoughtful members of the medical fraternity. I introduced a private member’s bill in the 16th Lok Sabha to govern national law universities but was unable to engage the interest of the treasury benches in such an urgently needed measure. Another retrograde measure is the policy’s prescription of a common entrance exam for admission to higher education institutions by a national testing agency. Standardized exams such as the SAT and GRE in the United States of America have been shown to be biased against disadvantaged social groups and are increasingly being discarded or ignored by the best colleges and universities in their admission decisions. Different states and individual institutions must have full autonomy to determine what weight, if any, to give to a common entrance exam at the all-India level in their admission processes. The new national curriculum framework for ECE, school, teachers and adult education promises to be another stifling straitjacket. The spectre of privatization inherent in the new policy has raised widespread concern and for good reason. It offers nothing to stem the rot of commercialization of school education that has been damaging to both quality and equity in many states. The policy advocates “common norms” for public and private higher education institutions. While there are examples of outstanding not-for-profit private universities around the world (I happen to teach in one), for-profit private universities have been unmitigated disasters everywhere. There is need for a new and separate law in Parliament specifying the requirements for being accorded the status of not-for-profit higher education institutions. Since that prospect is unlikely, states should legislate on this matter. States should also amend their laws governing state universities so that governors, who are these days no more than political agents of the Centre, do not automatically serve as their chancellors. Distinguished educationists belonging to the state should be appointed chancellors. The policy exhibits muddled thinking on the internationalization of education, which if properly done would raise standards. I have been watching national channels showing footage of Harvard as they trumpet the government’s decision to welcome foreign universities. I know for a fact that Harvard is opposed in principle to opening campuses outside of its location in and around Cambridge, Massachusetts. Only a handful of the top one hundred universities in the world are likely to show any interest in having campuses in India. Many more can be engaged through intellectual partnerships. The emphasis in the internationalization of education should be on giving Indian institutions the autonomy to attract talented international faculty and to welcome foreign students. Our universities should be far more cosmopolitan than they are at present. They should look east and not just towards North America and Europe. The old and tired promise of increasing public investment in the education sector to “reach 6% of GDP at the earliest” is repeated in the new policy. It was meaningless on the part of the government to announce the policy without an accompanying, clear, time-bound roadmap to attain this level of public investment. Achieving national professional standards for teachers will remain a pipedream without massive investment in teacher-training. The policy declares the good intention of having a gender inclusion fund, which should form part of the repertoire to eradicate deeply ingrained gender-based discrimination. In singing the praises of the NEP, Narendra Modi has revealed his Manuvadi predilections. We must acknowledge and address gender, caste and class-based discrimination and exclusion through resolute and verifiable affirmative action in admissions and appointments at all levels. The current public health crisis has exposed the yawning digital divide in access to education; this shameful inequality and injustice must be addressed urgently through public investment and delivery. The Opposition would do well to challenge the substance of the new education policy instead of getting mired in the defense of the old nomenclature. There is no reason to mourn the impending removal of the jargon-laden phrase, ‘human resource development’, from our official lexicon. We should not reduce the nurturing of human capability to the level of exploiting material resources. Education and health must be the two pillars on which to rebuild our national edifice that must rest on a strong federal foundation. A top-heavy structure is bound to collapse. For the next four years, regional parties in power at the state level must bear the responsibility of safeguarding the future of our young citizens. The author is the Gardiner Professor of Oceanic History and Affairs at Harvard University||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-163
