18-08-2020||Opinion||Historic moment: Kamla Harris vice-presidency||Sir — The selection of Kamala Harris as the running mate of the presumptive Democratic presidential candidate, Joe Biden, for the elections scheduled to be held later this year marks a new era in American politics (“Biden chooses ‘fearless fighter for the little guy’”, Aug 13). If the Democrats win, then Harris would come to represent two marginalized racial groups, which in recent years have borne the brunt of the populist politics of the incumbent president, Donald Trump. No other woman, let alone a woman of colour, has held such a high administrative position in the government of the United States of America so far. The candidature of Harris is not just a proud moment for Indian-Americans. She also is the first black woman — Harris was born to an Indian mother and a Jamaican father — to compete on the presidential ticket of one of the two major parties. With the Black Lives Matter movement gaining momentum in the US in the aftermath of the brutal killing of George Floyd, Harris represents the anxieties of the black population and is expected to draw a large number of African-American voters. The political landscape of the US is rapidly changing and, with the Trump administration facing immense backlash over its poor handling of the issue of police brutality in the country, the California senator’s presence is now being considered crucial. Harris, who ticks several boxes — she has experience in law enforcement, a legislative background, many years ahead of her, has vociferously demanded racial equality and is unwavering in her commitment to civil rights — would be an asset to the Democratic presidential campaign. Ranganathan Sivakumar,Chennai Sir — The senator of California, Kamala Harris, is a worthy choice for the vice-presidential ticket alongside the Democratic presidential hopeful, Joe Biden. As a biracial child of immigrants, Harris truly represents the diversity and inclusivity of the US, which the current president has decimated over the last four years. Her selection as the running mate to Biden marks a giant leap forward for women in American politics who, for so long, have been denied positions at the upper echelons of government. If Biden, with Harris by his side, wins the presidential elections of 2020, then the bilateral relations between India and the US might take a different turn. While Donald Trump has been vocal about his admiration for the Indian prime minister, Narendra Modi, Biden’s position on Indian politics has not always been to the liking of the Bharatiya Janata Party. Although Biden has advocated for the strengthening of Indo-US ties, he has also publicly criticized the Citizenship (Amendment) Act and has expressed concerns over the deteriorating situation in Kashmir. Thus, it would be interesting to see how a shift in power at the White House will impact the country’s ties with India in the future. Venu G.S.,Kollam, Kerala Sir — It is understandable why the selection of Kamala Harris as the Democratic vice-presidential candidate is being considered a victory by Indian-American and African-American voters alike. Harris is on a history-making ticket, standing in opposition to a president who has deeply offended the minority communities in the country. Unsurprisingly, Donald Trump has reacted adversely to the selection by calling Harris “nasty”, “mean” and “horrible”. The senator, on the other hand, criticized Trump on his mismanagement of the Covid-19 pandemic, calling it “the worst public health crisis in a century”. There is no doubt that Harris is a strategically smart choice for the Democratic Party. Having run for both the Senate and the presidency, she has already been subjected to national scrutiny. Harris — unlike Trump, who has consistently downplayed the importance of climate change, she has taken on the oil industry as the attorney general of California and campaigned for a Green New Deal — has prioritized climate change, an issue that will resonate with the young voters. Her progressive politics, which stand in stark opposition to Trump’s, will provide her with a much-needed boost in the upcoming elections. Bidyut Kumar Chatterjee,Faridabad Sir — While it is great that Indians are celebrating the news of Kamala Harris being declared the Democratic vice-presidential candidate, overt celebrations of her ‘Indianness’ have raised eyebrows. Reports of people of African origin being treated poorly in India are plenty. Had Harris not been as successful, one wonders if her mixed heritage would have been as readily accepted. Riya Datta,Calcutta Way back home Sir — At a time when good news is hard to come by, it was great to hear that two beluga whales who have lived in captivity for almost 10 years have been rehomed in an open-water sanctuary in Iceland. While they may not have been granted full freedom — conservationists are unsure if the whales would be able to survive in the wild — the decision to house them in a larger pen that allows fish to swim through the net is a positive step forward. Rehoming creatures in captivity must be prioritized and, if successful, this model can help other beluga whales — there are about 300 in captivity — find their way back to the sea in the future. Ananya Chakraborty,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-162
18-08-2020||Opinion||Small start: New taxpayer charter||Tax reforms in India are part of a broader set of fiscal reforms. The first attempt to modernize and rationalize India’s fiscal strategy was carried out by Rajiv Gandhi in 1985 with the ‘Long Term Fiscal Policy’, which laid out a five-year roadmap with a well-defined set of rules and targets. The real major boost to tax reforms came in 1991 with the Tax Reforms Committee’s recommendations during the P.V. Narasimha Rao government. The reforms discussed and debated today were initiated during the early 1990s. The committee’s recommendations included broadening of the tax base, minimizing exemptions, having a single value added tax for all domestic production, expansion of tax deducted at source, mandatory permanent account number, reduction of direct tax rates on personal and corporate incomes, and the use of technology to make tax payment user-friendly as well as to reduce tax evasion. Even if everything could not be completed during Manmohan Singh’s tenure as finance minister, it was continued, albeit sporadically, by subsequent governments. In 2003, the National Democratic Alliance government legislated the Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management Act to keep fiscal and revenue deficits under control. While the system of tax collection and payment has become considerably easier over the years, there is still the fear of the taxman and his discretionary powers of harassment. There is also a belief that the honest taxpayer is sometimes at the receiving end of this power while the big fish are free to have ‘arrangements’ that minimize the probability of them being disturbed. These perceptions have resulted in a trust deficit between the taxman and the taxpayer. The latest taxpayer charter announced by the Narendra Modi government is an attempt to address this issue by empowering honest taxpayers by giving them certain rights. It is supposed to have statutory status. It will make the encounter (if necessary) between the assessor and the assessee faceless and online. In fact, the finance minister has gone to the extent of claiming that the role of the income tax department will be that of a facilitator. One hopes that this will erase the remaining apprehensions of individual taxpayers. This charter is not tax reforms per se. But it has the potential to make the tax system more efficient and rule-based.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-162
18-08-2020||Opinion||Talking shops: Dialectics under threat in India||The Argumentative Indian is the beating heart of Indian democracy. This is not being suggested in jest. A civilized argument need not necessarily be disruptive or even personal. Debate, in fact, facilitates the free exchange of ideas and information, consolidating the richness and diversity of a body politic as well as its intellectual traditions. Indeed, India — especially ancient India — can make a substantial claim on such scholarly deliberations. The tale of the Adi Shankaracharya’s spirited debate with a contemporary philosopher of equal repute has been passed down the generations. The culture of tarka sabhas has played a central role in India’s epistemological blooming. There is reason to believe that this flowering of the nation’s collective intellect through the war of scholarly words is now under serious threat. The media and Parliament — the latter has been witness to some of the finest debates among luminaries — are emblematic of this decline. The question of the pedestrian nature of political debate has been reignited, once again, after the unfortunate demise of a Congress spokesperson who had participated in an acrimonious television debate. The two incidents are not linked. But the Congress’s allegation of television studios functioning as toxic laboratories where supine journalists propound, with unprecedented aggression, the views of the government of the day cannot be taken lightly. Any objective viewer of prime-time debate in India cannot help but notice the eagerness with which anchors stifle independent voices or suppress — vilify — opinions critical of the government, leading to the dissemination and domination of a particular point of view. An attempt to demand accountability, especially by representatives of the Opposition, is met with whataboutery, evasion or intimidation by the cheerleaders of the regime. This is dangerous in two ways. It indicates that the media, entrusted with speaking truth to power, are willing to wag their tail to the powers that be. Second, it also leads to the creation of a hegemony in information, resulting in the falsification or obfuscation of truth. Boycotting partisan television studios would work as a strategy only if the Opposition manages to get its message to the people. The social media, in spite of its infiltration by ideologues, is one option. The other choice is good old public mobilization. Great political upheavals — be it the uprooting of the colonial regime or, say, the Congress’s electoral debacle immediately after the Emergency — were possible because of effective, objective communication. The future of Indian democracy hinges on the Opposition’s ability to get citizens to engage with informed, civilized debate, once again.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-163
18-08-2020||Opinion||People and their will: EIA disregards public opinion||A decade ago, villagers around the Tadoba Andhari Tiger Reserve in Maharashtra’s Chandrapur district joined hands with the people of the city to oppose a proposed captive coal mine allotted to the Adani group. For two years, people did not budge. Their position was non-negotiable: drop the mine. The reason: it was in the middle of a pristine tiger habitat that promoters of the mine called a development-hurdle. The then minister for environment and forests, Jairam Ramesh, visited the proposed mine’s location and went back convinced that there was no way the forest could be destroyed. The then civil aviation minister, Praful Patel, favoured the mine, because the coal would fire Adani’s thermal power project in his constituency, Gondia, some 200 miles away. Finally, the mine project, dropped first in 1999 for the same reasons, was shelved again in 2011. People won. The crux is that they were heard. Their opinion mattered. And despite a tie in the Union cabinet, the environment minister upheld the provisions of the law to drop one mine that would not hurt the nation’s development, but would nevertheless eat away a big part of endangered tiger’s habitat. In June, the Narendra Modi-led government put the same mine for auction again, reigniting local concern and opposition. How open would the Union minister for environment, forest and climate change, Prakash Javadekar, be to hearing public opinion is anybody’s guess. He won’t dare stand up to the prime minister. What’s more, the Modi regime has in black and white its intent of not really wanting to know public opinion when it comes to development projects, of any kind, where the environment impact must be assessed to know the extent of potential socio-economic destruction.Barren path That’s what the draft Environment Impact Assessment, 2020 is all about: dropping the public out of opinion. And it is in line with this government’s overall vision: people and their protests are a development hurdle, a philosophy entrenched in the Bharatiya Janata Party’s parent organization. The EIA is the pillar on which the Environment Protection Act stands; read with the laws for land acquisition, it is an important tool to incorporate public opinion, protect the environment, maintain transparency and keep an eye on small or big development projects. The new draft circles it back to the pre-Bhopal era where anybody could walk into your home at any time and light the fireworks. As things stand today, Indian regulatory institutions are shoddy. We are further weakening instead of strengthening them. How can the dilution of EIA provisions mean transparency? The experience of EIA over 25 years since it was first introduced into the EPA regime is that small projects (a stone quarry, for example) cumulatively do equal damage to ecology as big ticket items do. The draft EIA has reportedly received two million comments — so the people do believe they have a role in the making of policies and laws. The government, it seems, is not on the same page. India diverted hundreds of thousands of hectares of forests in the last 25 years, for mining projects, building rails and roads, putting in place special economic zones, airports, jetties and much more; much of this diversion has bulldozed forests, impacting tribal people and forest dwellers on an unprecedented scale. The Covid-19 pandemic teaches us that the old normal was a humongous problem, the new normal must be a radical departure from the past. Development does not mean a government can imperil our environment without us questioning that pathway. Unless, of course, it thinks otherwise.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-163
18-08-2020||Opinion||Dormant state||Animal spirits, the primordial driver of growth that is unquantifiable, are once more in the spotlight. The current context is the dire growth outlook from the Covid-19 impact, future prospects and how to improve these. However, the absence of animal spirits has been felt and commented upon longer than that. It can be traced as far back as the 2012-13 slowdown, or the shortfall in private investment that has, inexplicably, failed to return since. A spurt of growth in 2015-16 neither sustained nor restored investments. Why has investment not revived? Why are animal spirits quiescent? Or to use the coronavirus terminology, why have animal spirits been in quarantine for so long even when the virus was nowhere around? It isn’t as though the government has remained on the sidelines. In the five years to 2019, it responded with numerous reforms, such as inflation targeting, indirect tax harmonization (GST), public bank recapitalization and the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code for the resolution of bad loans. Raised public spending provided further support. Yet, a year ago, after an overwhelming re-election, consumer sentiments and business confidence strangely nosedived for unknown reasons that remain unexplained. The government responded vigorously to that abysmal plunge in confidence, leaving nary a stone unturned. It rolled back unpleasant surcharges and super-rich taxes of the July-2019 budget; eased the conduct of business more; gave relief to automobile, NBFCs and MSME segments; relaxed foreign direct investments (single brand retail, contract manufacturing, coal mining); announced major consolidation of public banks with governance reforms; initiated exports and housing boosters and lowered corporate tax rates from 30 per cent to 22 per cent with an even lower 15 per cent for new manufacturing units. Monetary measures were reinforced by easing interest rates, expanding liquidity, special interventions and much more. Bank loan camps in October-December facilitated consumer borrowings. However, a second-round collapse was visible when GDP growth fell steeply to 4.2 per cent in 2019-20 from 6.1 per cent the previous year. In the January-March quarter, the economy grew 3.1 per cent; minus government spending, private sector GDP grew just 1.9 per cent; and even the private consumer spending mainstay slowed down noticeably before exposure to Covid-19. There is a belief that financial sector troubles have held back India’s growth and investment. Financial sector-induced slowdowns take longer to recover from and the initial delay in resolving bad assets stretched this further. Then, in September 2018, the IL&FS’s default triggered fresh rounds of trouble in the non-banking part of the financial system. If a stressed financial sector is indeed the main reason, the consolidating trend in banks and non-bank financial companies with policy support before Covid-19 would probably have manoeuvred a turnaround. However, the devastating coronavirus shock has raised the spectre of an all-round erosion of net worth amongst households and businesses, with a severely weakened public balance sheet. The cascading effects will devolve upon financial intermediaries, pulling them down, once again. The question now is if financial sector weakness was the only reason keeping back investments and growth, is India stuck with low growth for many more years? Or is there an unstated, unquantifiable something that’s not imparting confidence to invest? The absence of animal spirits has been around for long in the public discourse. The British economist, John Maynard Keynes, who coined the term in his General Theory written in the throes of the Great Depression described it as an emotional mindset, a spontaneous urge to act or not act, which can either obstruct or drive growth. Much later, following the global financial crisis and the Great Recession, the economists, George Akerlof and Robert Shiller, wrote Animal Spirits. They described it as a particular human psychology that drives an economy; beyond the economic boundaries, it’s not captured in headline numbers, nor is it quantifiable. Akerlof and Shiller identified five factors they thought were important in the composition of animal spirits: confidence, fairness, corruption and bad faith, money illusion, and stories. They examined these for capitalist societies trapped in low productivity growth, but are of general understanding. How are the parallels for India? It faces a long-standing investment deficit, dearth of confidence and a visible absence of animal spirits. There may be intangible factors undermining investors’ faith and confidence beneath the pleasant surface of support measures, reforms and headlines. Are signalling effects adverse underneath? Consider a businessman’s confusion and unease in spheres critical to planning. For instance, the repeated change of focus in growth strategy and design: there’s no clarity if this greater openness, export-oriented manufacturing or self-reliance (Atmanirbhar Bharat) is based upon protectionism, import restrictions and entry barriers. The macro strategy flits from one to another, often an inconsistent patchwork of objectives. This undercuts faith for none is sure how long will policies, intent, or interest last; what will come next. There is overall confusion caused by such inconsistency and frequent change of track and direction for no one knows where economic strategy is headed. Then, medium-long term planning suffers from failures in demand assessment due to questionable data and statistics; signals about real economic conditions have been conflicting and confusing. Financial sector strategy is likewise; for example, the initial pursuit of IBC route for bad asset resolutions ruling out bailouts and then an abrupt shift outside the framework, or the consolidation of public sector banks instead of privatization with silence on future direction. Tax terrorism surely creates bad faith. So does vilification of private business through criminal actions, penalties that betray low faith, the refusal to acknowledge genuine business failures that are normal when growth cycles turn down. Noble announcements such as tax charters, a friendlier tax regime, anonymous assessments are at variance with common reports of coercion, penal provisions, look-out notices and unsustainable tax demands. No one knows if tax terrorism has ended. There’s also no idea if the GST system has stabilized. Perceptions of fairness are dented by selective favouring: the public over private sector (coal, power purchase agreements); within the private, some over others; or discretionary actions in the drive against corruption and black money that are sensitive to targeting. Faith is eroded when there are gaps in intent and actions — the rapid climb in ease of doing business rankings but frequent disruptions and obstruction complaints. The image of fiscal prudence created by respecting budget headlines but hiding profligacy outside the balance sheet has supremely dented credibility; so has the excessive revenue or welfare spending tilt over productive expenditures. It is likely that the composite of soft factors could be dampening or preventing the rise of animal spirits. On what basis will an investor commit risk capital? Why is it that more and more reforms are being systematically ignored? The answers to these questions have focused on financial sector troubles. As the Covid-19 crisis is still playing out, the transformative effects of numerous policy changes are to be observed. Whether the impediment is missing animal spirits or financial sector weakness awaits clarity. What is known though is that it is not just the coronavirus that has changed or depressed animal spirits. This psychological driver of growth has been missing for much longer, even though the coronavirus dealt a further blow. A keen look into why the emotional mindset governing economic actions is dormant for so long is surely impelled in this light. The author is a macroeconomist.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-163
