19-08-2020||Opinion||History as guiding light to a post-Covid world||The outcome of a current case in the Supreme Court of India seeks to define the difference between contempt and freedom of speech at a rather unusual time in the history of our young republic. Its importance is based on our firm belief that the court is a constitutional body above all other institutions. It is an island of impartiality. The sense of comfort and reliance on its absolute fairness is based on the court’s history, barring rare exceptions, since the adoption of the Indian Constitution. India’s highest court seems even more reassuring when India and much of the world face a very uncertain future ravaged by the Covid-19 pandemic. It is now evident that much of what we have taken for granted in our lifetime may no longer remain the same while the future of living and livelihood are changing irreversibly. Under these transformational circumstances, the promotion of majoritarian politics will even more deeply disturb the multicultural, multi-religious and multi-ethnic cohesion which are at the core of India as a nation. The former Soviet Union and Yugoslavia, for example, faced slightly different, but not dissimilar, challenges. The eventual outcome is recent history. The politics of religious majoritarianism, while not a new concept, and attempts to impose it in a country like India is neither desirable nor sustainable. Furthermore, the world is also facing the consequences of the gradual demise of globalisation, which had underpinned post-war economic growth and prosperity. The world has also started to shrink in terms of communication, commerce, etc, thanks to the growth of digital innovations driving economic advances; something that will remain the most powerful force in the foreseeable future. Even prosperous Islamic nations are anxiously searching for change, aware of the limits to their wealth due to global warming and the impact of Covid-19. There are signals that their wealth, a part of which was being used to promote the spread of Islam, is now in need of a strategic pause. The evangelical spread of Christianity is more a part of history rather than a contemporary movement. The rituals of Christianity in economically prosperous nations have become more symbolic than ever before. The only exception is the progress, prosperity and disproportionate global influence of the historically religious people in the nation of Israel. How a changed world order emerges, or if the world is either able to overcome or is forced to cohabit with Covid-19, remains uncertain. The big question is how people and nations will be transformed as a consequence. In India, one may speculate that however we emerge, we must look forward to the lessons we learnt from our brief history as a developing nation state. The biggest lesson is a continuous one, that of reaffirmation of the Republic as a multicultural and multi-ethnic nation. India’s greatest strength lies in recognising and reinforcing its unity in diversity of language, religion, social mores and ethnicity. While these and more are enshrined in the Constitution, we have also been strengthened by growing access to all in education, health and wellbeing. India, however, is a work in progress and will need to continue to reinforce these fundamentals while facing the Covid-19 future. In this scenario, religion driven majoritarianism will be a hurdle and a threat as is amply evident from two nations in our neighbourhood. The indistinguishable nature of people is also evident from the spread of Covid-19, which does not differentiate by religion, cast, wealth, age or sex. The pandemic is a lasting lesson for the present generation and hopefully for the future as well. India’s unity in diversity must remain a personal choice rather than a politically imposed instrument. Finally, in the midst of the pandemic, China remains at odds virtually with the rest of the civilised world. As its largest neighbour, India will have to resolutely deal with China’s territorial avarice and greed. How we protect and restore our rightful, geographical sanctity will be the biggest symbol of self-reliance in post-pandemic India and our future.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-162
19-08-2020||Opinion||Troubled waters: Mauritius oil spill||Sir — A massive oil spill on the south eastern coast of Mauritius and consequent oil seepage threatens unspoiled coral reefs and mangrove forests in a protected marine park in the Indian Ocean. Given that this is the third instance of a ship running aground in Mauritius in five years, one wonders why commercial sea routes are not planned in such a way that ecologically fragile and biologically diverse regions are avoided. Hearteningly, India has joined the effort to remove the spilled oil. After all, the global environment is common to all, and one country should not have to address such a catastrophe. Priyanko Mullick,Calcutta Truth to power Sir — The Supreme Court’s verdict holding the advocate, Prashant Bhushan, guilty in a contempt case is disappointing (“Bhushan guilty, iron hand needed: Supreme Court, Aug 15). The apex court is known for showing greater resilience, which is why it is puzzling that it got ‘scandalized’ just by some tweets. It seems that the fine line of distinction between criticism and contempt was lost in this case. In initiating the proceedings and convicting Bhushan for contempt of court, the bench appears to have cast aside its ‘majestic liberalism’ that the notable judge, V.R. Krishna Iyer, had referred to, and failed to reinstate the freedom of speech as the bedrock of democracy. As a free citizen, Bhushan was well within his rights to express his opinion. In fact, the views expressed in his tweets resonate with a number of people who think that in the last few years some judges could have upheld the Constitution more firmly and served the cause of justice better than they did. Some feel that on certain matters of great import, the verdicts given by the top court have adhered to the views of the ruling dispensation. Invoking the contempt law — it is but a vestige of colonial rule— cannot change people’s opinions. The nation must make space for those who speak truth to power. All citizens cherish their freedom of expression. As such, no one should be obliged to pay obeisance to any institution, overlooking its fallibilities and failures. Even the highest echelons of the judiciary must abide by the Constitution and their own conscience. They should be able to command the respect of people on account of their high professional and moral standards. The latest verdict could now have a chilling effect on the citizenry and deter them from justifiably critiquing the functioning of the judiciary. G. David Milton,Maruthancode, Tamil Nadu Sir — There is no doubt that with the Supreme Court’s decision to hold Prashant Bhushan guilty of criminal contempt for his two ‘false and malicious’ tweets, the space for bona fide criticism of the judiciary has become more restricted. This is also apparent from the bench’s assertion that Bhushan’s case needs to be tackled with an “iron hand”, lest quips like these “affect the national honour and prestige in the comity of nations”. Many liberal democracies have decriminalized the ‘scandalizing’ of courts, based on the ideal that criticism is necessary to make the judicial system stronger and foolproof. As such, it is disappointing that the top court of India has taken a different stand. Further, it should not be forgotten that only in 2018 four Supreme Court judges came out publicly against the then Chief Justice of India in an open press meet. Was any contempt case filed or action initiated against them? It was expected that the apex court’s verdict would be advisory in nature. The decision of the bench to come down heavily on Bhushan in view of his dissent could shake the trust of the common man in the institution which he considers to be his last resort and rescuer. Tharcius S. Fernando,Chennai Sir — On the eve of the 74th Independence Day, the Supreme Court of India seems to have put a restriction on free speech with its verdict against Prashant Bhushan. The apex court as a public institution should be open to criticism. In fact, criticism can help strengthen such institutions. Of late, like governors forsaking their neutral position and working in favour of the ruling party at the Centre, several public institutions — starting from investigative agencies to the Reserve Bank of India — also seem to be falling in line with the government’s diktats. At such a time, the apex court’s decision to use an ‘iron hand’ to throttle dissent is all the more shocking. Surely the apex court will not punish everybody who criticizes it on social media? It must be ensured that in its 74th year of independence, India does not witness the end of liberal democracy.Shovanlal Chakraborty,Calcutta Sir — The Supreme Court has been the beacon of hope for Indians, overturning wrong decisions of successive governments. One hopes that this time the court will show the strength to reconsider its own verdict against Prashant Bhushan and defend free speech. Abhishikta Sanyal,North 24 Parganas||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-162
19-08-2020||Opinion||Sands shift: UAE-Israel bilateral ties||A telephone call, under ordinary circumstances, is mundane. But this is not the case when telephone lines between the United Arab Emirates and Israel come to life. The buzzing network could be a testament to the commitment of the UAE and Israel to normalize bilateral ties. The thaw seems promising, at least on paper. The crown prince of the UAE has stated that the historic rapprochement — the UAE is only the third Arab nation to have inked a deal with Israel — implies that Israel would halt its plan of further annexation of the West Bank. Benjamin Netanyahu, the Israeli prime minister, is seemingly amenable to a ‘provisional’ suspension. If the agreement lasts, it would strengthen Abu Dhabi’s claim on the pole position in the Arab world hierarchy. Israel, too, would benefit from a toehold in UAE’s security and economic segments. If it plays its hand well, Tel Aviv could even hope that the partnership with Abu Dhabi would cement a broader peace deal for the Middle East. The president of the United States of America, Donald Trump, who helped broker the agreement, has, predictably, made a lot out of it. This perhaps has something to do with the momentum  that has already been generated. The word is that Bahrain and Oman could be the next in line to bury the hatchet with Israel. But there are significant impediments that remain. Iran, Turkey and Syria have expressed outrage while the Hamas — it has a strong presence in the West Bank — has described the deal as a betrayal. Moreover it would be naïve to argue that the accord is an example of altruism triumphing cold diplomacy. This is because the stakeholders in the deal are equally desperate to consolidate their individual agenda. Mr Trump, facing tough presidential re-election, is keen to project the deal as a rare example of success in US foreign policy under his watch. It remains to be seen whether the US, beset by a raging pandemic and plunging economic prospects, is willing to remain interested in Middle Eastern intrigues. Israel and the UAE also have a common axe to grind: Iran. Tehran’s alleged expansionism has been a source of concern for both Abu Dhabi and Tel Aviv. New Delhi should follow the developments closely. The UAE-Israel bonhomie could be used to leverage India’s strategic, economic and security interests.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-162
19-08-2020||Opinion||Quick call: Contact-tracing and privacy||The urgent need to conduct contact-tracing to slow the spread of the Covid-19 infection has brought out strange ironies. In both Kerala and Uttar Pradesh, the governments have chosen to allow the scrutiny of call detail records as one way of tracing the contacts of infected persons. It has been a few months since the police in Kerala started asking telecommunications service providers for the CDRs of patients. The chief minister invoked the use of technology for contact-tracing — reportedly, the method has helped. But the dilemma is an awkward one. The Opposition has complained in court about the infringement of citizens’ privacy. There is substance in that, since CDRs are being looked at without people’s consent. The reason given for this step is that patients often provide inaccurate or misleading information, or switch off their phones, so contact tracing becomes impossible. The chief minister’s assurances that only the records of those infected are being pulled to detect possible contacts and routes, that the records are strictly limited to this use and kept safe from third parties cannot blunt the privacy question. Neither can it be a fail-safe guarantee. The right of the administration to scrutinize call records when the public or the country is in danger from criminals is granted by the Indian Telegraph Act and the Information Technology Act. In 1996, the Supreme Court limited this to a public emergency. The Indian Telegraph Act mentions public safety too. A pandemic may be interpreted as a public emergency. Contact tracing by CDRs may be quick, effective, even necessary, but the discomfort regarding the right to privacy is bound to persist. How far can a government breach people’s privacy for their own good? When public safety is the priority, can citizens be asked to give up some of their rights? This question has risen repeatedly during the pandemic, and not in India alone, each time with regard to some measure a government has taken to stall the spread of the virus. The UP government, however, is fairly smug. Lying to the administration — when infected persons prevaricate about contacts — is a crime, and the police have every right to their call records. This administration discovers criminals whenever it is convenient, even if they are patients. It is seldom bothered about contesting rights and ethical dilemmas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-162
19-08-2020||Opinion|| Festering digital differences||The economic slowdown induced by Covid-19 has caused unprecedented joblessness in India and the world. In India, women, who were slowly breaking the glass ceiling, are among the worst victims of the economic slump. In a recent working paper published by Ashoka University, the noted economist, Ashwini Deshpande, pointed out that a higher percentage of women (39 per cent) lost jobs than men (29 per cent) in April 2020. In terms of absolute numbers, men have lost more jobs but that is also because more men are employed than women. But a gap of 10 percentage points is alarming. With the gradual withdrawal of lockdown-induced restrictions and the reopening of industry, there will be a slow re-entry of workers in the workforce. The crucial question pertains to the re-entry of women workers in the workforce in the post-pandemic economy. Deshpande has indicated that “Women who were employed in the pre-lockdown phase were 23.5 percentage points less likely to be employed in the post-lockdown phase compared to men who were employed in the pre-lockdown phase.” The likelihood of fewer women getting employment in a post-pandemic situation is rooted in the low participation of women in the workforce in India. Before the pandemic, women’s participation in the workforce had been consistently low (25 per cent) compared to other countries over the last 15 years; the figure was even lower than that of Bangladesh. The burden of domestic work is an additional obstacle on the path of re-entry for women into the labour force. Significantly, given how inequalities are stacked against women, the gender gap in computing ability is likely to adversely affect women’s participation in work, especially in the formal sector, at a time like this. With the onset of periodic lockdowns, work from home has emerged as a feasible alternative. Several companies are adopting this new norm, which entails a high degree of computing ability. Computing ability combines several skills, including the ability to use the internet, participate in a virtual workspace, and so on. The latest national sample survey data on ‘Household Social Consumption on Education in India’ reveals glaring gender gaps in computing ability across states, sectors and social groups. Despite the proliferation of internet connectivity, computing ability among the women is far lower than men. In India, about 21.96 per cent of males above 14 years of age have computing ability; the figure is 13.12 per cent for women. There is also a stark rural-urban division. The survey indicates that only about 11 per cent of the rural population above the age of 14 can operate computers and use the internet. The percentage in urban areas for the same age group is 40. In India, among social groups, about 12.02 per cent of scheduled caste men (above 14 years) have computing ability; the corresponding figure for women is 6.11 per cent. About 21 per cent of men among other backward classes possess computing ability, but girls lag behind at 12.41 per cent. Among Muslims, the data are 15.92 per cent for men and about 9 per cent for girls. The gap is the widest among the socially upward classes; 37.51 per cent of men have computing ability to 24.31 per cent of women. While some forms of gender gap in education have narrowed down, the chasm in computing ability persists. A cross-tabulation of education level and gender would reveal a telling gap in different educational tiers. About 22.91 per cent of males above 14 years with secondary education have computing ability, but only 15.82 females have the similar ability in this category. At the higher secondary level, the figure for male students is 46.53 per cent while 39.86 per cent of female students have similar digital skills. The gap persists, albeit narrowly, among graduates: 74.94 per cent male and 71.52 per cent of female graduates can compute with ease. For decades, incentives, such as conditional cash transfer or providing bicycles to girl students, have driven policy interventions to promote women’s education and employment. It is high time the government addresses the digital divide by making laptops available to girls and training them to make use of these gadgets. Otherwise, women’s participation in the workforce would remain dismal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-162
19-08-2020||Opinion||A gig economy||A report in The Telegraph of August 10 reflects a curious situation on India’s labour front. Just when things seemed to be looking up, penniless migrant workers, home after harrowing months of lockdown, are refusing to return to work in the states they fled. They are offered tempting packages, with undreamt-of perks like air-conditioned travel or even flights; yet they would rather stay at home on subsistence wages under the rural employment guarantee scheme that actually offers no ‘guarantee’. Of course this is not the case everywhere: streams of workers are making their way back. What is striking is that so many people, in state after state, should demur. The ‘head-hunters’ (was the term ever used for such lowly workers?) find the situation ‘unimaginable’. The humble labourers have taught our corporate arbiters something. It is important that they draw the right lessons. ‘These people’ are not feckless laggards who won’t stir from home. On the contrary, they have always done so: at their modest level, they were upwardly mobile. The surreal reality of the lockdown has made them rethink their situation: poised on the edge of subsistence, with neither State nor employer reaching out a hand. Hence they feel their only course is to bunker down at home. This should surprise nobody. India’s owning classes have consistently abandoned the poor on the assumption, as classically expressed, that ‘those people’ are not like ‘us’: they don’t need resources, lucky them — they’ll always find a way to survive. Sure enough, they are resorting to that bedrock resilience, of spirit more than substance — assuming on their part, reasonably enough, that the fortunate classes do have resources, that they can work out their survival by themselves. Our economic order, it seems, is at its core no better than a sullen meeting of these adversaries. Covid-19 unhinged a production process held together by human relations as fragile as cobwebs. It thereby exposed that this structure makes bad economic sense. In hindsight, employers might have found it cheaper to support their workers, even subcontractual and casual workers, through the lockdown. A company lost Rs 2 lakhs on a single bus to carry 35 workers from Bengal to Maharashtra. That sum would have fed 200 workers for the six weeks of total lockdown, or fed and housed a hundred. The workers would not have been pauperized, ravaging the humbler end of the consumer economy, and employers would not now be losing production time. It is worth extending the maths to a total costing over the period. The corporates did contribute handsomely to the PM-Cares fund, sometimes retrenching their own staff to find the money, thereby meeting their CSR target and winning political merit. It did not ensure care for their embattled workforce, and the donors were too polite to ask. Perhaps our hard-nosed business model is not so hard-nosed after all. Perhaps Tagore was talking good economics when he wrote, ‘He that you pull down, pulls you down below’. The pandemic has revealed how instead of a dispassionate optimal nurturing of resources, including human resources, we have simply been shuffling the external tools of production in a workspace foetid with ancient distrust and alienation. The curve doesn’t flatten there. The short-changing of India’s proletariat is not restricted to what we conventionally think of as ‘the economy’. It is endemic to certain basic operations of the State that will determine where this country stands in ten years’ time. In a recent interaction, the prime minister, Narendra Modi, rightly stressed containment and contact-tracing as crucial in combating Covid-19. Throughout India, especially in rural areas, this task is carried out by Accredited Social Health Activist workers. They visit houses, record cases, trace contacts, organize quarantine and hospitalization. In normal times, they manage pregnancies, family planning, child health and immunization, and primary control of ailments like diarrhoea and malaria. They are on duty 24x7. They are the bedrock of India’s public health management. So what might be their salary? Basically, zero. They receive modest sums per case: each immunization, each hospitalized pregnancy, each family planning procedure, and so on. Some states add a small stipend. The average Asha worker earns Rs 4,000 a month. Payments are notoriously irregular. To compare, a Union government peon might get Rs 30,000. The genius of the Indian bureaucracy has a rationale for this bizarre imbalance. Ground-level welfare personnel count as volunteers, not employees. The National Literacy Mission is entrusted to volunteers and NGOs. Anganwadi staff, again, are ‘volunteers’ paid Rs 3,000 a month from Central funds, their assistants Rs 1,500, varyingly supplemented by the states and rarely crossing Rs 10,000. Their duties comprise 28 items under five heads, including home visits, record-keeping and surveys, besides actually looking after the children and expectant and nursing mothers. The National Education Policy has reinvented anganwadis as pre-primary schools, with the staff retrained for the purpose. The Policy notes that 85 per cent of a child’s development takes place by the age of six. The emoluments of those guiding this crucial development may seem uncommensurate. The private sector hardly shows up better. In many schools charging five-figure fees, parents would be shocked to learn how little reaches the junior teachers, and on what terms. Nurses and paramedics fare even worse in high-end private hospitals. There was an exodus from such hospitals in Bengal when the government health service recruited nurses on a large scale. In some places, most prominently Bangalore, nurses in private hospitals felt so disincentivized as to leave their jobs as the pandemic broke. All this adds up to an unedifying conclusion. India is running not only its industrial and service sectors but also its public health, child welfare and education systems overwhelmingly on the lines of a gig economy, to an extent rare and possibly without parallel. Yet India has little of the social insurance that mitigates the human damage of the gig economy in prosperous post-industrial societies, which usually attained that prosperity through stabler models of employment in the past. Do we have the money to do better? The blunt answer must be: if we mean business, we must find it by whatever means. We are not always austere in our spending. It would be educative to balance the cost of various welfare measures against that of grand governmental gestures, from Rs 3,000 crore for the Statue of Unity or Rs 20,000 crore as the first tranche for Delhi’s Central Vista, to Rs 1.1 lakh crore for the bullet train (even loans must be repaid) and Rs 1.45 lakh crore as company tax relief last year. The welfare possibilities of those last sums are awesome to contemplate. Such daydreams are futile, but they reflect a looming reality. Over half of India’s population is below 25. ‘Demographic dividend’ has become a cliché. We can reap that dividend only by investing in education, health and social support in a way precluded by our gut instincts of governance. To this day, we view education and health as things ‘we’ enjoy but ‘they’ need not, as ‘our’ advantage lies in exploiting the gap. Buried deep inside the NEP are discreet provisions for ‘alternative models of education’ with ‘less emphasis on inputs’ (read under-funded schools), even a Plan C for child labourers ‘not able to attend a physical school’. The problem with this abstemiousness for people other than ourselves is that it will turn the demographic dividend into a demographic market crash. Somewhere around 2030, India will be full of people with limited skills, denizens of an economy with few jobs on offer, and a level of health and well-being that leaves no-one immune. In fact, we are blest with a preview: it will be a countryscape not unlike today’s. But there will be no virus to blame, only ourselves. The author is Professor Emeritus, Jadavpur University||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-162
