20-08-2020||Opinion||Unsuitable match: Age of marriage review for women||Sir — On the occasion of India’s 74th Independence Day, the prime minister, Narendra Modi, had indicated that the government is mulling an upward revision of the legal age of marriage for women in India. The possible increase in legal age from the current 18 to 21 years would be a welcome step forward. Some of the primary reasons why girls, especially in rural areas, are pressurized to tie the knot early include proper lack of education, social awareness and age-old norms that consider the female child to be a burden. Thus, along with an increase in the age bracket, the government must also work towards improving the level of education in females and, if necessary, provide them with requisite support and incentives. It will not only make women self-sufficient, but would also empower them to stand up for themselves, make better decisions for their family and equip them with the necessary knowledge — including family planning and childcare — to make a smooth transition into marital life. On the other hand, if girls are married off young, they are far more likely to face emotional as well as physical abuse at the hands of their spouse or in-laws. Additionally, children born to mothers under the age of 20 are at higher risk of low birth weight and severe neonatal conditions. It is, thus, imperative that women marry only when they are both physically and emotionally ready. M. Pradyu,Kannur Sir — While it is great that the government is considering a hike in the legal age of marriage for women in India, it must also be remembered that crimes against women are on the rise. According to government statistics, a rape on a woman was reported every 15 minutes on an average in 2018. These numbers are alarming. Many parents, albeit mistakenly, feel that if a girl child is married off as early as possible then they might not be vulnerable to sexual violence. One wonders whether an increase in the age of marriage from 18 to 21 would really make a difference. In over 140 countries, the lower age limit for women getting married is at 18 which seems to be a reasonable age for marriage. Unless women are empowered and can access all the opportunities and privileges accorded to men, the condition of women will continue to be the same. N.R. Ramachandran, Chennai Sir — Although many people have lauded the prime minister for considering an increase in the minimum age of marriage for women in India, activists are right to point out that it will not do much to bring about change. Girls as young as 12 or 13 years of age — as soon as they start menstruating — are married off in many parts of the country. How does it matter then if the legal age is 18 or higher? If the government truly wants to address the issue of gender inequality, then the way forward would be to work towards improving social awareness about the rights of the girl child. Aparajita Pradhan,Darjeeling Shut down Sir — It is natural that migrant workers are reluctant to return to their former workplaces (“A gig economy”, Aug 19). They need to be provided wage guarantee, housing and also insurance against loss of employment if they are expected to go back to work. These factors have become indispensable to ensure the mobility of labour within the nation. More important, this is an excellent opportunity to focus on skill development. It is not just a matter of filling up empty positions but also about ensuring long-term employment. Those engaged in the unregulated sectors like construction workers, delivery personnel, domestic helpers and so on must be trained so that they can find better employment. This means, of course, that these jobs will then open up. More people can then be trained for these. This will not just address the issue of poverty but also kick-start the economy. Both the Centre and the state governments have to play an active role in this if the plan is to succeed.M. Raghuraman,Mumbai Sir — Sukanta Chaudhuri has rightly pointed out in his article that the problem before India’s economy is multi-faceted. It is not just about getting the migrant labourers who left for their homes when the lockdown was announced back to work. It is also about the thousands of workers who are underpaid and overworked. The case of the Asha workers is an excellent example given the role that they have to play in tackling the pandemic. They are the ones who are most vulnerable given the severe lack of protective equipment and the shaky condition of India’s primary healthcare system. In spite of this, the government pays them a pittance, or a measly commission. It all comes down to a question of respect. Do we respect the grimy work that allows us to lead our lives in luxury? Anjishnu Ghatak,Jamshedpur Survival tactics Sir — The pandemic, it seems, has upended our lives in more ways than one. People are understandably finding it difficult to cope with the new reality. Not only are those stuck at home taking a laid back approach to life, but they are also developing bad habits. Waking up later than usual tops the list, along with constant snacking and a general lack of hygiene. As people face an uncertain future, unless they take care of themselves and maintain a schedule, it is far more likely that they will succumb to depression. A healthy lifestyle combined with safely-conducted social interactions might help us survive the emotional upheavals of the pandemic. Nipa Saha,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-161
20-08-2020||Opinion||First date: Age of marriage for women||On Independence Day, the prime minister suggested that the government may review the legal age of marriage for women to raise it from 18 to 21, on par with that of men. Data regarding age of motherhood, maternal and infant mortality rates and so on are being collected by a task force, and the review will depend on its report. The prime minister and his government feel that by 21, women would have a better education than at 18, be more mature physiologically and psychologically, and empowered enough to make marital and reproductive choices. Besides, the effects of poor nutrition and anaemia may be somewhat ameliorated by 21. It would also slow population growth, one of the prime minister’s larger goals, since studies show that many women have their first pregnancies between the ages of 18 and 21. These are undeniable benefits, although not new discoveries. Fixing an age for marriage must tread a fine line between the ideal and complex social realities. Early marriage is often forced upon daughters of poor parents for then dowry — illegal but flourishing — is lower and the girl is made, nominally at least, sexually secure. There is no gainsaying the importance of education: determined schoolgirls keep rebelling against their parents’ decision to marry them off. Empowerment is a priority, even if it takes years to achieve. But certain incongruities need to be ironed out. Would marriage at 21 mean the age of sexual consent would be raised from 18 too, when there are calls for this to be lowered to 16 because teenage society is changing? Would child marriage, which is illegal but voided only when a spouse complains, be made void by default? In reviewing the age of marriage — no bad thing — the government would also have to consider how the law is to be implemented in a society riddled with economic inequality. The change should not be pointless.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-161
20-08-2020||Opinion||Too close: Facebook – business and ethics||Business and ethics need not share a complementary relationship. The political storm that is raging over a report in The Wall Street Journal alleging that Facebook had condoned hate-mongering by individuals or groups affiliated to the Bharatiya Janata Party to protect the company’s business interests in India reveals the uneasy ties between business and ethics. The Opposition has, quite correctly, demanded an investigation into the charges by a joint parliamentary committee. Some Facebook employees are also expected to be summoned by a committee of the Delhi assembly to scrutinize the social media firm’s role, if any, in the riots that shook India’s capital city earlier in the year. These investigations must be fair, transparent and, most importantly, immune to political pressure to arrive at the truth. There is merit in the argument for such probes. Social media has edged out traditional — more reliable — media platforms as a primary source of information. Facebook, by some estimates, has over 300 million users in India. This makes social media companies particularly attractive to regimes that seek to distort narratives for ideological or political gain. A quid pro quo arrangement between digital behemoths and ruling regimes is thus not unheard of. Facebook’s conduct has strengthened such suspicions. There is a shocking lack of consistency in Facebook’s regulations when it comes to rooting out toxic content. In a deposition in Singapore, the company stated that it can only bring down offensive posts when they are brought to its notice. In India, in spite of several such complaints, Facebook, reportedly, chose to look the other way. The issue leads to some disturbing conclusions. Digital technology, which can be transformative in a meaningful way when used ethically, is increasingly becoming a prisoner of dubious political agenda. This is true on a global scale. It only goes to show that the dissemination of such technology must be accompanied by enhanced public awareness that would empower users to identify and then reject spurious news. This collective commitment is important since social media companies, evidently, cannot be relied upon to do the job themselves. Facebook, allegedly, pandered to hate speeches even though its owner believes, at least officially, that a line must be drawn against inflammatory content. There could be another way of combating fake news. Politicians must reinvest in the older ways of mass contact — the good old jan sampark model — to help truth reach the people. The reach and seductive ease of digital technology seem to have introduced a degree of inertia in mass campaigns. India’s political fraternity must — like M.K. Gandhi did all those years ago — learn to take the road, once again.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-161
20-08-2020||Opinion||The poet and the party: Ramdhari Singh Dinkar and the BJP||Politics appropriates everything — the real and the abstract — for expanding its horizon. It may even appropriate poetry. When a politician uses poetry, it can be interpreted in three ways. First, he uses it as an instrument to disseminate political messages; second, it symbolizes the appropriation of the poet by a political party; finally, politicians and political parties use poetry that fits in with their ideologies. When the prime minister, Narendra Modi, visited Ladakh, he chose to inspire the Indian army by reciting a poem by Ramdhari Singh Dinkar (“Kalam Aaj Unaki Jay Bol”). Incidentally, Modi has referred to Dinkar’s poetry on various occasions. Atal Bihari Vajpayee, Sushma Swaraj, Rajnath Singh, Amit Shah, among other leaders of the Bharatiya Janata Party, have used Dinkar’s verses to get across their political messages. Many pracharaks of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh have been known to use Dinkar’s poems during lectures for swayamsevaks and in their articles for Panchjanya and Organizer. Significantly, Dinkar was a Congressman. He was very close to Jawaharlal Nehru. The Congress retained him as a Rajya Sabha member between 1952 and 1964. After the completion of his stint, the Congress appointed Dinkar as a Hindi advisor to the Government of India. Dinkar was steeped in the Congress’s vision of Gandhian nationalism and believed in protest for the sake of freedom with humility and satyagraha. Dinkar’s famous works — Sanskriti ke Char Adhyay and Lokdeo Nehru — reveal his belief in the Gandhian and Nehruvian visions and the idea of India. Dinkar used the veer ras to express his nationalist sentiments in his poems. This has enabled the BJP and the sangh parivar to appropriate Dinkar to spread their version of nationalism, which is deeply influenced by V.D. Savarkar’s interpretation of Indian nationalism. How and why are the poems of a Nehruvian poet being used to endorse the politics of a right-wing political party? Is this merely an instrumental strategy? Does it signify the appropriation of the poet to appease his caste for electoral gain? Or is this indicative of larger issues at stake? Dinkar’s poetry is characterized by aggressive posturing. It contains appeals of being chivalrous and demands strength to defend the nation. These elements are attractive to the BJP. Dinkar’s poetry is consistent with the ideological tenets of Hindutva politics, which believes in the notions of a strong community and a strong nation. The political message of the right wing in India rests upon the encouragement of the cadre to become ‘veer’ — chivalrous — to defend the nation. Many of the speeches in this ecosystem are thus set to chivalrous, lyrical tones and tunes inspired by Dinkar’s poetry. A number of stalwarts of the BJP — Vajpayee, Vishnu Kant Shastri, Ramesh Pokhriyal — who have gone on to acquire the image of a poet have been highly influenced by Dinkar’s poetry as well as by his poetic forms. Other nationalist poets from the Congress stable, contemporaries of Dinkar, are quite popular in the Hindi heartland. But their works lack veer ras and feature the vinay bhav (humility). That is why their poems are deemed unsuitable for the BJP’s political language. The strategy employed by the BJP-sangh parivar to effectively communicate with those at the grass roots relies on the use of mythical characters from such ancient literature as the Vedas, Puranas and ballads like the Ramayana and the Mahabharata. Dinkar’s poetry made substantial use of myths and epics too, reinventing his messages around these works to evoke an aggressive form of nationalism. It is rare to find a Congress leader making use of Dinkar’s poems. But the BJP organizes functions in Dinkar’s memory and has celebrated his birth anniversary in the recent past in various parts of Bihar. This may appear to be a plan to garner electoral gain. But Dinkar’s appropriation by the sangh parivar is better explained by the shared vision between the poet and the political party.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-162
20-08-2020||Opinion||Wall of contention||Many heritage universities across the world are accustomed to tensions between town and gown. Santiniketan, the home of Visva-Bharati, the centre of tranquillity and learning founded by Rabindranath Tagore, is no exception. Matters came to a head last Monday when a mob organized by the Birbhum district leadership of the Trinamul Congress, the ruling party of West Bengal, went on rampage inside the campus. The crowd directed its ire at the construction site of a boundary wall that was sought to be built around a large field, which has traditionally been the venue of some iconic festivals associated with the poet, notably the Pous Mela. That this was no spontaneous gathering of people angry over needless construction in a campus established with the aim of blending nature and learning was obvious from the fact that a bulldozer was kept ready to ensure that the demolition was total. In the process, not only was the construction site vandalized and building material merrily looted, the old gates of the university were bulldozed to the ground. In view of the tensions and the clear collusion of the local administration with the local TMC, an emergency meeting of the university executive council decided to close Visva-Bharati for the foreseeable future. At the heart of the dispute was the tension between the university and local businessmen. Over time, Santiniketan had evolved from being a quiet ashram settlement to becoming a centre of Tagore tourism. While the academic community and local residents who had gravitated to Santiniketan for its tranquil, leafy environment were understandably indignant over the invasion of the town by hordes of — sometimes unruly — tourists, local businessmen viewed tourism as a big economic opportunity. The management of the Pous Mela epitomized the problem. The university administration felt unable to cope with the lakhs of people who descended on Santiniketan for a week or more. In particular, it was out of its depth coping with the mountain of litter, not to mention the stench caused by large areas being turned into urinals by day-trippers. The problem was compounded by the intervention of the National Green Tribunal that held the university responsible for sorting out the mess resulting from the unregulated festivities. It was in such a situation that the university administration took a decision in 2019 to not hold the Pous Mela unless the Centre —Visva-Bharati is a Central university and the prime minister its chancellor — stepped in with financial and logistical support. Following direct appeals to the prime minister, the Centre extended support for the Pous Mela and the event, held between December 24 and 28, passed off with better crowd control and efficient waste disposal. However, there was tension between the university and local businessmen over the duration of the Mela after four days. Whereas the university adhered to the NGT instruction that the event would be for four days, the latter insisted it should continue for much longer as had become the custom in the recent past. The political environment of the state added to the tensions. Until the general election of 2019 when the Bharatiya Janata Party emerged as a challenger to the TMC, winning 18 of West Bengal’s 42 seats, the Centre’s approach to its undertakings in the state was somewhat distant. This changed after 2019 as the BJP developed a stake in a state where its political influence had been negligible earlier. The Prime Minister’s Office, on its part, began taking a deeper interest in a university where the prime minister is the chancellor. New Delhi’s sponsorship of the Pous Mela’s arrangements — including the transparent system of online booking of the Mela stalls — was a direct consequence of these shifting equations. As a direct consequence, tensions between the TMC-sponsored local businessmen and the vice-chancellor escalated. Some of these found reflection in an incident when an attempt was made to disrupt a university-sponsored lecture, delivered by me, on the Citizenship (Amendment) Act on January 8, 2020. What could have escalated into an ugly fracas ended after six hours following a phone call made by the Union home minister, Amit Shah, to the chief minister, Mamata Banerjee. Although the protests and the siege of the venue where the lecture was eventually delivered were allegedly the handiwork of left student bodies, the protesters melted away within 15 minutes of the call from Delhi. Since 2019, there have been repeated attempts by the TMC to extend its political control to Visva-Bharati, which operates as a Central university. This has taken the form of employee agitations over the withdrawal of irregular privileges and vacating illegal encroachments on the perimeter of the campus. Periodically, the personal security provided to the vice-chancellor by the local police has been withdrawn and local politicians have frowned upon the university’s repeated requests to the Centre to deploy a contingent of Central security forces to protect the campus. By and large, using the Centre as a shield, Visva-Bharati has been largely successful in warding off pressures to turn yet another institution in West Bengal into an extension of a party office. Last Monday’s ugly incident was a direct consequence of these simmering tensions. In itself, the enclosure of an open space is undesirable and not in keeping with the ethos of Tagore’s Santiniketan. That is undeniable. However, the proposed wall was also a direct consequence of the NGT order of November 1, 2017 that “a barrier needs to be constructed to demarcate the Mela ground from the University and locality.” The NGT had, in fact, directed the university to show visible progress of the construction before its next hearing on August 19. Whether or not it will proceed with contempt charges against the MLA from Dubrajpur and others who mobilized the protesters and disrupted the work on the boundary wall is worth observing. Safeguarding the authentic heritage of Tagore is an objective that, while being lauded all over India and not least in West Bengal, is also a point of fierce contention. In her press interaction on the afternoon of the incident, Mamata Banerjee made clear her emphatic opposition to the construction of the boundary wall. Equally, she had no words of condemnation for the mob action in Santiniketan and did not mention the fact that even before the incident the university had requested the district administration to declare Section 144 in the area. It was apparent that behind the façade of heritage protection, the state government was using Visva-Bharati to fight a proxy battle against the Centre. In sending bulldozers to complement a political mobilization, it very successfully underlined the limits of the Centre’s powers inside West Bengal. It is even possible that she will take the muscle-flexing a step further by positing a contrived battle between a regime that protects and safeguards the heritage of Bengal’s greatest cultural icon and an uncaring Delhi that seeks to trample on Bengali sensitivities. As the assembly election of 2021 approaches, the chief minister will seek to assume the mantle of Mother Bengal fighting a valiant battle to keep out the barbarians from the North. As a political strategy, it may or may not divert attention from her whimsical — and increasingly venal — record of governance. However, what every incident, such as the one in Santiniketan, does is confirm West Bengal’s unending decline. It also makes a likely recovery imperative.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-162
