21-08-2020||Opinion||Future concerns: Indian independence and Modi governance||Sir — Ramachandra Guha’s technique of analysing history to derive lessons for the future makes his articles particularly interesting. In his latest article, “Two anniversaries” (Aug 15), Guha reflects on the sixtieth anniversary of Indian Independence, and compares the achievements and aspirations of the country at the time with those of today. Clearly, a lot has changed between the two anniversaries. In 2007, when the United Progressive Alliance formed the government at the Centre, the economic growth rate of the nation was higher. Democratic institutions, too, were perceived to function with more fairness and freedom. However, the second phase of the UPA government under Manmohan Singh witnessed a decline, with a rise in corruption cases involving massive amounts of public money and several instances of misgovernance on account of the lack of a strong political leadership. This paved the way for the Bharatiya Janata Party to come to power in New Delhi. The previous spells of the BJP regimes had been marked by relatively liberal and erudite leaders, such as Atal Bihari Vajpayee and Murali Manohar Joshi. But, with the induction of Narendra Modi into national politics, a new set of tactics was introduced. Modi promised an immediate cleansing of black money and corruption from the economic and administrative systems of the country. However, these claims were far from effective. Hasty decisions — demonetization, for instance — left a deeply negative impact on the economy. Under Modi’s leadership, autonomous institutions have ceased to function freely and the space for dissent and pluralism has diminished. But authoritarian tactics cannot substitute democratic processes. At present, the sufferings of the people have been further compounded by the pandemic. In its 74th year of Independence, the country must emerge from the pervading “doom and gloom”.P.N. Pal,Calcutta Sir — In his article, Ramachandra Guha has rightly highlighted the flaws in the BJP’s governance. Indeed, the ruling party is trying to mislead people by diverting their attention from the burning issues of the day. For instance, the BJP’s claim that India would become ‘Vishwaguru’ or ‘the teacher of the world’ in the near future sounds ridiculous today when the country is attaining alarmingly poor ranks in almost all parameters of international assessments. The sensationalization of the Ram mandir issue is yet another diversionary tactic employed by the ruling dispensation to garner votes in the upcoming elections. During his term in Vellore jail, the freedom fighter, C. Rajagopalachari, had written in his diary that independence from colonial rule would only amount to freedom from subordination by outsiders, and not from corruption or abuse of power. It seems that he had correctly foreseen the tragedy of modern India. Mrityunjoy Chakravarty,Calcutta Sir — Ramachandra Guha’s article reminds the readers of the disastrous impacts of some of the decisions taken by the current government, such as demonetization, the abrogation of Article 370 and the implementation of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act. However, the consequence of the sudden announcement of the lockdown, with a notice of only four hours, has been equally grave. This led to a severe crisis, leaving millions of migrant labourers high and dry. It appears as though under the present dispensation, accountability has truly ceased to exist.
 P.T. Mallik,CalcuttaGreat loss Sir — The demise of the maestro, Pandit Jasraj, will be mourned by followers of Indian classical music everywhere (“Pandit Jasraj passes away in New Jersey”, Aug 18). He belonged to the Mewati gharana and was widely regarded as one of India’s greatest vocalists. He infused life into the most complex ragas and mesmerized the audience with his unique style. Jasraj also made a mark for himself as a mentor to many noted vocalists. He received several honours over a career spanning 80 years, including the Padma Vibhushan and the Sangeet Natak Akademi Award. His loss will leave a deep void in the cultural sphere.Ramesh G. Jethwani,Bangalore
Sir — The tradition of Indian classical music thrives on live performances and has been particularly affected by the onset of the pandemic and the need for social distancing. In the midst of this gloom, the passing of Pandit Jasraj, one of the most celebrated live performers of Hindustani classical music, is lamentable. Ritwika Sen,Calcutta Pet theory  Sir — North Korea’s supreme leader, Kim Jong-un, has reportedly ordered dogs-owners to surrender their pets to the government to alleviate a national meat shortage, as the ownership of dogs is a ‘bourgeois privilege’. This can hardly be justification for separating people from their emotionally dependent pets, and the plan to use them to supplement the meat industry is nothing short of barbaric. The decision is even more deplorable in view of the blatantly lavish lifestyle of the leader himself, who is infamous for his love of private jets, imported food and designer clothes. People must not turn a blind eye to this. Asmita Mishra,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-161
21-08-2020||Opinion||Narrow lens: Employment bias in government jobs||India proclaims itself to be a constitutional democracy. But some of the proclamations of its elected representatives reveal — worryingly — that the spirit of constitutionalism may be on the wane. Consider the announcement by the chief minister of Madhya Pradesh, Shivraj Singh Chouhan, that government jobs would be given to the “children of the state”. Mr Chouhan’s declaration is likely to trigger a furious debate concerning the scope of fundamental rights enshrined in the Constitution. The Constitution, supposedly the bedrock of this democracy, expressly forbids discrimination in employment on the grounds of the place of birth, residence, religion, caste, among other factors. Several legal judgments have clearly reflected the judiciary’s unwillingness to extend this kind of reservation to public employment. For instance, in 2002, the Supreme Court did away with the appointment of teachers in Rajasthan after the then selection board decided to give preference to candidates belonging to particular districts or rural areas. But neither legal precedents nor the constitutional ethos have been able to stymie the politics that feeds on distinctly parochial sentiments. In fact, quite a number of states have introduced additional criteria in order to bypass constitutional checks and balances. Uttarakhand, for instance, prefers residents of the state for specific posts; Bengal insists on the knowledge of Bengali among those applying for certain positions; eligibility in Maharashtra — the son of soil theory has particular potency here — can depend on the tenure of residency as well as on fluency in Marathi. The subterranean tension, in every case, is between the political imperatives of populism and the broader, inclusive vision of accommodation that the Constitution and the courts have fought to uphold. Pandering to this kind of myopia in the name of federal autonomy or provincial pride runs the risk of balkanizing the idea of India itself. What makes Mr Chouhan’s utterance in MP all the more glaring is the Bharatiya Janata Party’s double standards on the matter. Last year, Narendra Modi decided to unilaterally do away with a similar proviso in Kashmir that recognized the claims of local residents on land and jobs. This kind of exclusivity, Mr Modi had reasoned, went against the doctrine of integration. The BJP, evidently, does not mind when other states — be it Madhya Pradesh or Nagaland — lay claim on a similar kind of problematic entitlement. The prime minister and his party should remember that this kind of duplicity could erode the BJP’s credibility.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-161
21-08-2020||Opinion||Free of fear: Prashant Bhushan on SC judgement||The health of a democracy is at risk when its people fear that criticism is being silenced. It is even more intimidating when institutions upholding justice are perceived to be using the law for this purpose. The debate that has exploded around the use of the law of criminal contempt of court, though, gives reason for hope. Civil liberties organizations, lawyers, former Supreme Court judges, and eminent figures from different fields have spoken up against the conviction for criminal contempt of the senior lawyer, Prashant Bhushan, for two tweets, one criticizing the present Chief Justice of India and the other deploring the destruction of democracy that was helped by CJIs in the last six years. While agreeing that the content of the tweets may be debated, the objections question the use of the contempt law against criticism of the judiciary. The lawyers have said that an independent judiciary does not mean that judges are free from scrutiny and comment. The Bar should be free to point out shortcomings in the functioning of the court to the bench and the public; an independent Bar with independent judges makes for a strong court. Only a relationship of mutual respect, not coercion, between Bar and bench makes effective delivery of justice possible. This debate in the public domain is a reassertion of the spirit of democracy, especially when people are feeling that all democratic institutions are busy punishing dissent. The objections to the conviction state that respect is commanded, not demanded through the intimidation implicit in the contempt law, which has been abolished in most countries. The law against criminal contempt clearly needs review. For the court it was reportedly not just the concern about damage to public confidence but also the shaking of the foundations of constitutional democracy through the criticism of its central pillar that constituted criminal contempt. Yet this brought forth more criticism, which pointed out that the court damaged its image and lowered its dignity in the eyes of the people by the conviction, especially by moving suo motu on two tweets when cases regarding the rights of numerous citizens were on hold. It is heartening that the freedom to question has been upheld in face of the application of the contempt law. Politicians are noticeably silent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-161
21-08-2020||Opinion||Cause, not method: Protest movements in history||On June 1913, at England’s most prestigious horse race, a woman ducked under the guard rail and ran onto the race course, stepped out right in front of the speeding King George V’s horse, brought it down, and succumbed to her injuries. The woman was Emily Davison, an English suffragette, who championed and fought ‘militantly’ for the voting rights of women in 20th century Britain. Davison had been arrested nine times for her confrontational tactics. Women demanding political rights since the 1800s were called Suffragists. Upon failing to convince the legislators, a group of women branched out to become ‘militant suffragettes’. To make themselves and their demands visible, they started burning mailboxes and vandalizing shop windows. This watershed event seems relevant to comprehend the nature of demonstrations and political assertions around the world today. Following the vicious killing of the Afro-American, George Floyd, in Minneapolis by white police officers, there has been a tremendous global outrage against institutional racism. The Black Lives Matter movement has attained considerable global traction. However, shops have been looted and confederates’ statues toppled in the course of the movement. India, too, has been in ferment. The discriminatory Citizenship (Amendment) Act spurred nationwide discontent earlier in the year. These protests featured the blocking of roads, street demonstrations and, allegedly, incidents of destruction of public property. Instead of addressing the principal concern, the government and the media criticized the ‘violent’ nature of the protests. One aspect that has not changed in the course of a century is the brouhaha around the modus operandi of protests. The State can and has obliterated protests through ‘legitimate coercion’ by arguing that it has the authority to do so through the summation of power and legality. A confrontational demonstration from a disaffected people is deemed illegitimate by State institutions. This has led to the derailment of the demands and the legitimacy of the protesters on account of the charges of damage inflicted upon public property. The onus quickly shifted to the marginalized to work within the ‘social contract’ of the institutions that deprived them the rights and justice in the first place. The key question, however, is this: to what extent are the demonstrators represented in the social contract they have signed up for? This is not to suggest that absolute impunity be given to those who damage public property. This may deflect attention from the cause of protest to its methods. What must be examined are the causes that force protesters to adopt a confrontational attitude. When the State legitimizes coercion by citing the principle of law and order, power groups controlling State institutions should be asked why they violated the sanctity of the social contract. The coercion of the people should bring an element of introspection for the State apparatus, which is keen on branding protesters as recalcitrant and delegitimizing their protests. To be political, Hannah Arendt asserts, is to decide everything through words and persuasion and not through violence and force. From its evolution as a process of decision-making in society, the expression, ‘political’, aligned itself with a set of institutions that were vested with the power to take such decisions. With the shift of power from society to State, the latter has acquired a significant political role as well as the responsibility to ensure justice. From the suffrage movement to Black Lives Matter, each mobilization has made our inability to address and resolve the root of resentment conspicuous. The tendency to focus on the strategies adopted by protest movements signifies the failure of political maturity in modernity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-161
21-08-2020||Opinion||Recover memory||Anniversaries tend to get repetitive and nagging in their emptiness. Independence Day, in particular, becomes problematic as both past and future look ambiguous. Mahatma Gandhi and Jawaharlal Nehru look like distant figures, creatures at the wrong end of a telescope. The immediacy of events like Covid-19 and the Citizenship (Amendment) Act seems starker, creating a general sense of helplessness. One looks around for the regime’s thinking on critical issues, like education, environment, security and what one discovers is a variety of reports. I was reading about the government’s ‘gift’ to the nation on this anniversary, the National Education Policy, based on the Kasturirangan Report. One of the saddest things about our policy reports is that they become outdated in thought by the time of publication. The outdatedness is disguised by the presentation of ideas in the form of an intellectual salad. There is a little bit for everyone, each one picks his/her favourite hobby-horse of morsel, then speaks of it with relish. One realizes that there is no rethinking of fundamental issues, even in the most touted of reforms. The Kasturirangan Report has to be read at three levels. First, K. Kasturirangan is a major policy-maker, having chaired both the reports on the Western Ghats and the National Education Policy. The connectivity between the two is critical. Unlike Madhav Gadgil, Kasturirangan wanted development over diversity. In doing so, he stated two norms in general — the forest was a resource open to mining by industry rather than a commons of trusteeship. Second, the inhabitants living in it have little to say about the future. Kasturirangan’s marginalization of the forest and the tribe is lethal. The education report merely follows the logic of development. Here, he again pretends to be concerned about education, but his real concern is industry and the workforce for industry. It represents the Human Relations School of education, which has little to say about Taylorism or the invidiousness of class conflict. It creates a domain of social work where students play as NGOs, dabbling with the informal and the obsolescent as bits of nostalgia before they acquire corporate positions. Philanthropy plays happily, indifferent to the damage its corporate arm creates. The second point one has to emphasize is that the Kasturirangan Report on the NEP echoes a liberal arts view of education, stressing key words like ‘options’, ‘fluidity’ and ‘freedom’. The liberal arts schools are homes for elite children, but offer little else. They claim to be interdisciplinary, but are merely a goulash of subjects. The menu card of subjects is picked randomly. There is no sense of concept or cohesion. There is even less an idea of the debates that took place around the national movement or the great dialogue of religions that made India a syncretic society. Liberal arts is supposed to create a sense of civilization and memory, but the syllabus has little sense of both. It encourages dilettantes, but has little sense of rigour or scholarship. I was reminded of the liberal arts experiment while reading the Kasturirangan Report. It is amazing how accolades flow, from the elite, from IIT directors to management gurus. The elite likes the report, because it does not threaten their position. They love a report with a few key terms that they can bandy about like skill, multidisciplinarity, fluidity, and is garrulous on policy. Third-rate acclaims cushion second-rate thought, and we are content with the happy mediocrity it offers. Meanwhile, India is a nation which is being outthought and outfought on every front; creative originality is a discomfort we would rather be without. The third aspect I wish to emphasize is that we have missed out on the great intellectual revolutions. We keep talking about the industrial revolution but have little sense of the later intellectual revolutions that followed. We have, despite our linguistic diversity, little sense of the linguistic revolution and, therefore, are blind to the brilliance of the Sapir-Whorf hypothesis, or to the work of Ferdinand de Saussure. Saussure was an originator of structural linguistics and a professor of Sanskrit in Geneva. Sapir-Whorf felt that original ideas could only be worked by innovative groups like the theosophists in India, but we played deaf to them. Idiotically, we still define language as a form of life, which needs a script and, thereby, we have destroyed over 2000 oral languages with an illiterate callousness. Strangely we have paid little attention to epistemology and the knowledge revolution, to the ecological revolution, or even to the debates on the Anthropocene. The elite feel content with the Linus blanket of mediocrity, callous about their own great innovators, from C.V. Seshadri to Amulya Reddy. India was home to so many diversities. Yet diversity in an epistemic or a cultural and linguistic sense is not part of our policy or the intellectual frameworks of our universities. India is not bothered whether it is home to 150,000 varieties of rice or over 2000 languages. Where do we have an education policy that says every school and every educational institution is to save at least one dying language, one obsolescent craft, or one near-extinct species? We talk pompously about skill, but never about competence as plurality. We tout skill as a poor man’s solution to livelihood, without linking skill and livelihood in any systematic way to the knowledge revolutions. Sadly, we have missed out on the epistemic debates that have involved scientists, from Michael Polanyi and James Lovelock to Isabelle Stengers. Our scientists miss the excitement of the quantum revolution; we still treat science as a corset of Victorian methods we call the scientific temper. The science of complexity, risk and uncertainty eludes our policy-makers. We have destroyed the sense of play and childhood to create IITs, which add little to the research imagination. We have created an elite, which is instrumental about science, fetishizing technology. As a result, we have devalued science as a sense of play, as a cultural system, and overvalued technology. Now Indians prefer to be imitative by choice. As a leading scientist from Bangalore put it, “We have no original thoughts, but we can summarize other people brilliantly.” The kunji is in our genes. We are the greatest bowdlerizers of the West, from Nehru to Modi, but unlike the national movement we have no sense of the other West, of the defeated West. We swallowed the hegemonic West in vitaminized quantities and thought we would survive. It has created an insidious mediocrity. Yet, while we by-hearted the West, we ignored the dialogues of our own civilization. India could have been a great Islamic society, but we destroyed the possibility, thinking only of the minoritarianism of Islam or Christianity. Our civilizational syncretism would have challenged the Judeo-Christian idea of nature as commodity, and saved the tribal and the forest. We museumized living tradition, while the West museumized debt cultures. We were taxidermists of living cultures, which help create our fundamentalism. Our dialogue of civilizations with the West, as one option, would have created the new Santiniketans of the future. The loss of memory, the devaluation of morality as an epistemology of communication and community, is something we have to rethink. Democratic India has to rethink the contract among orality, textuality, and digitality. Modern India seems to have little sense of the future as a possibility. Our illiteracy about technology makes us technologize every future, reducing it to a unilinear, monotheistic, monolithic exercise. Our sense of modernity, which is part Victorian, ties us down. We cannot think of the future in the plural. As a society, our policy-makers as pedagogues have no sense of alternatives. As a result, our tribes, our crafts, our forests are fading before us. Our tragedy is that we have no dream of alternatives to challenge fundamentalism, or the empty secularism of modernity. This autism of the future goes back to our thinking in straitjackets, confusing options as choices, and restricting freedom to picking choices in a fixed choice questionnaire. As a society, we no longer dream of alternatives and we treat dissent and alternatives as unpatriotic. The depth of our mediocrity adds to the depth of our emerging authoritarianism. The uniqueness of this era is in the mediocrity of authoritarianism. India needs to dream and think differently, reinvent all its basic concepts — from democracy to development. If democracy cannot restore dream-time, it is doomed to the banality of authoritarianism. This was the message of Gandhi’s concepts of swadeshi and swaraj, which we need to revive today. This is the challenge of independence anniversaries, to recover memory so we can reinvent the future. The author is an academic associated with Compost Heap, a network pursuing alternative imaginations||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-161
