22-08-2020||Opinion||Safe bet: Merkel and Macron greet with folded hands||Sir — The images of the French president, Emmanuel Macron, and the German chancellor, Angela Merkel, greeting each other with folded hands — akin to the traditional Indian greeting of ‘namaste’ — at the presidential palace in France were rather amusing. The Western world, which has long prided itself on being the fount of civilized behaviour in the global order, suddenly finds itself in the middle of a crisis that is forcing it to acknowledge the practical and hygienic nature of the practices of the Eastern civilizations. Jokes aside, however, all world leaders would be wise to set an example for their citizens to greet one another in ways that do not involve physical contact.Jessica Gomes,Mumbai Melt away Sir — It was deeply distressing to read that Greenland’s immense ice sheet suffered a record net loss of 532 billion tonnes last year. The figure amounts to an additional three million tonnes of water streaming into global oceans every day, or six Olympic-size swimming pools every second. Last year in July, Icelanders gathered to mourn the disappearance of one of the country’s 300 glaciers, all of which are melting. Given that places like Greenland and Iceland are relatively untouched by pollution and the ravages of human activity in comparison to the rest of the world, it is evident that the acute effects of climate change plaguing the two regions are the result of the blithe disregard for global warming of other countries. Climate change adversely affects all. World leaders now no longer have any excuse left to deny the cataclysmic effects of global warming. It is high time they started working on a war footing towards saving the planet from a climate disaster.Malini Bose,CalcuttaSudden affection Sir — Cricket is known as a gentleman’s game, and the former skipper of the Indian men’s team, M.S. Dhoni, embodied this description. But it was quite a surprise to hear that the prime minister, Narendra Modi, wrote a letter — it was shared on his Twitter page — to Dhoni, calling him “one of the important illustrations of the spirit of New India, where family name does not make young people’s destiny but they make their own names and their own destinies”. Lovers of sport will be aware that the prime minister has, thus far, never really showed any real interest in sports, including football, which is dear to a lot of Indians. If he did care about sport, then why is it that the demise of two of the country’s most valuable sportspersons — the legendary players, Chuni Goswami and P.K. Banerjee, whose contributions to India’s football legacy are immense — went unacknowledged by him? Modi wrote a praise-filled letter for Dhoni on the latter’s retirement, but has he shown the same enthusiasm for appreciating some of India’s hockey captains, or even when a tennis great like Leander Paes retired? It would not be unreasonable to surmise that the prime minister’s display of great fondness for Dhoni was purely politically motivated — after all, there are some crucial state assembly elections around the corner, and the addition of someone like Dhoni to the Bharatiya Janata Party’s campaign would be a masterstroke. Modi is a seasoned politician: he is unlikely to extend such gestures without a reason. Dhoni is, and will likely remain, in the limelight for a while, and the prime minister’s fondness for the cameras is well-known. Modi’s motivations aside, if the former cricket captain does decide to join politics, then cricket lovers will hope that he has a fulfilling and grace-filled innings, much like those that he had out on the field.Bidyut Kumar Chatterjee,Faridabad Sir — It was amusing to read the letter on the prime minister’s Twitter page for M.S. Dhoni on the occasion of the latter’s retirement. Rarely, if ever, has Narendra Modi shown such appreciation for a sports personality when they bid adieu to the game that they played. This sudden display of admiration makes one wonder whether the BJP, which always has a — usually insidious — agenda, is pulling out all the stops to woo Dhoni into its fold. Ragini Ghosh,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-160
22-08-2020||Opinion||The golden oldies: Calcutta’s heritage list||There is a lot more worth saving than meets the eye — or, more accurately, than the eye has been willing to see. That is why it is heartening to hear that Calcutta’s heritage list, which has been lying dormant and unchanged since 2000, is finally set to be updated by the Calcutta Municipal Corporation. The inordinate delay notwithstanding, the revision is a welcome move, as it will add greatly to the representational nature of the list with the inclusion of more structures of cultural, economic and historical value. It is no secret that in spite of its diverse culture and history, Calcutta, much like other Indian cities, is known for doing precious little to preserve and protect the remnants of its past. This disregard has been amply reflected in the apathetic response to conservation; as recently as 2018, the old Kenilworth Hotel was razed to the ground after its heritage status was quietly downgraded. Well before that, the exquisite Darbhanga palace on Chowringhee was demolished; in its place today stands Calcutta’s ‘tallest building’, promoted by the same consortium that acquired and demolished the old Kenilworth Hotel. In the light of this, it is reassuring that the practice of downgrading heritage buildings without public knowledge is set to end and, more important, public participation is to be made a significant part of the municipal framework of conservation activity. In this case, archivists, heritage enthusiasts and activists will be able to identify not just mansions but also entire precincts within the city that deserve to be preserved for their unique cultural and historical dimensions. This kind of cohesion and dialogue between administrative bodies and experts is rare in Indian policy-making; and yet, it is crucial for firing up the bureaucratic imagination to transcend established codes of conservation. After all, heritage is a fine mesh of the tangible with the intangible. It is an endangered space where old buildings and edifices jostle for survival along with cultures and livelihoods. This ecosystem is in dire need of regeneration. Calcutta’s Chinatown, a vibrant but marginalized hub, is a case in point. There is an added advantage to this nimbler comprehension of heritage. The preservation of livelihood, integral to heritage precincts, could, in turn, strengthen local — neighbourhood — economies, bolstering public mobilization to demand conservation. Heritage then can turn truly participatory and democratic. This momentum must be widened in its scope. The burgeoning vision of heritage preservation must expand to districts and villages. Apart from Serampore or Chandannagore, places such as Tamralipta and Chandraketugarh — from where there is archaeological evidence to suggest a sea-faring history of the region’s people — as well as Bengal’s crumbling terracotta temples must be brought within the ambit of a collective culture of conservation. The future of heritage and its protection in India rely on enterprises that are modern, well-funded and truly participatory in character.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-160
22-08-2020||Opinion||One in a million: MS Dhoni retires||On hearing that Mahendra Singh Dhoni was retiring from international cricket, Nasser Hussain declared: “This will be a massive, massive story in India. The only story in India.” Hussain called MS “probably the best white-ball captain there has ever been. A great finisher. It wasn’t over until you got Dhoni out. A phenomenally calm, cool customer.” According to another former England skipper, Michael Vaughan, “you could argue the greatest ever white ball captain & finisher”. In The Guardian, Kevin Mitchell said that Dhoni “changed the game forever and captured the hearts of all India fans” and wrote about “his elegant, murderous hitting nearly everywhere he went”. And in The Daily Telegraph, Tim Wigmore called MS “one of the most iconic Indian cricketers of all time and the cricketer who made India fall in love with Twenty20 cricket. Dhoni’s career also embodied the democratization of Indian cricket.” I was delighted when the former English left arm spinner, Monty Panesar, was moved to get in touch out of the blue and offer me an intriguing assessment of Dhoni’s position in the Indian pantheon: “Now the question is, will we have another cricketer of Dhoni’s mindset? Now, I don’t know if we’re going to get another MS Dhoni from Ranchi or from another non-cricket town. That is going to be very difficult. The BCCI should develop coaching programmes, educational programmes, sports courses or university courses where there’s actually a module on Mahendra Singh Dhoni, the cricketer, his strategic mindset and business ideas. They should maybe call it the MS Dhoni coaching programme. “Then you may develop more people who have the mindset of MS Dhoni. But if not, you’ll end up just seeing MS Dhoni and that was it — this rare talent and one of the most intelligent cricketers who has ever played the game. He was a once in a century cricketer. You may not see another MS Dhoni again.” Loaded words Thanks to the way Father Cleary taught us The Jungle Book at St Xavier’s School in Patna, I won’t hear anything against Rudyard Kipling, though these days he is condemned as a racist and an imperialist. At the Victory over Japan Day commemoration on August 15, his poem, “Mandalay” was dropped from the event after the Jamaica-born operatic bass baritone, Sir Willard White, who was going to sing the words at the Cenotaph in Whitehall, objected to the reference, “An’ a-wastin’ Christian kisses on an ‘eathen idol’s foot”. The protagonist in “Mandalay” (1890) is a Cockney working-class soldier, back in grey restrictive London, recalling the time he felt free and had a Burmese girlfriend, now unattainably far away but whom he had once kissed. When Boris Johnson was the foreign secretary in 2017, he had tried to recite the poem while on a visit to the sacred Shwedagon Pagoda in former Rangoon. He had to be sharply reprimanded by the British ambassador, Andrew Patrick, who told him he was “on mic” and the poem was “not appropriate”.Spoilt for choice The right-wing in Britain would probably like to see Donald Trump re-elected president in November but Joe Biden’s choice of Kamala Harris, with a Jamaican father and a Tamil mother, has caused huge excitement in the large Indian population in the United Kingdom. Many of them, especially in the Gujarati community, back Narendra Modi, who is presumably rooting for Trump, but they would be happy to see Harris become vice president. But they would also like to support whoever the Indian PM is supporting. Hence there’s a bit of confusion. I am getting my intel from a friend, Dinesh Sharma, an academic and author in New York who is fundraising for the Biden-Harris ticket. He tells me a baffling story about the cricket bat which Trump gifted to Imran Khan when the Pakistani prime minister visited Washington in July last year. This was interpreted as a token of great esteem by the accompanying Pakistani media. But Dinesh’s Pakistani friends have been telling him that “this is a slap in the face for Imran. The bat had been given to Eisenhower by the Pakistani generals when he had visited Pakistan. Why would you want to return a gift? They see it as an insult.” Back in November 2008, I wandered around New York trying to buy a copy of The New York Times but it was sold out. Finally, a friend gave me his copy which is now a treasured collector’s item. It has a one-word headline on the front page in large type: “OBAMA”. The previous night at the Rockefeller Plaza I heard one Indian instruct another on Obama’s real identity: “What you are seeing is Krishna.”Birds of a feather The “Indian influence” is now evident in the skies above London where it has become a common sight to see hundreds of parakeets in flight. Earlier this week I watched one in a neighbour’s adjoining garden, hopping from apple to apple clearly spoilt for choice. This is one immigration wave the Home Office has been unable to stop. When I first came to England the only place you saw a parrot or a parakeet was in a pet shop or the zoo. Now I would guess there are more parakeets in London than in Calcutta.Footnote Going back to read A Suitable Boy makes me appreciate what a difficult job Andrew Davies had in condensing the novel for a six-part TV series. I love the non sequitur ending of the letter Mrs Rupa Mehra writes to her daughter, Savita, and son-in-law, Pran: “Don’t worry about me, my blood sugar is all right.” She could be one of a million Indian mothers engaging in emotional blackmail. Tomorrow we see the penultimate episode with the shoemaker, Haresh Khanna (Namit Das), emerging as Lata’s third suitor after the cricketer, Kabir Durrani, and the poet, Amit Chatterji.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-161
22-08-2020||Opinion||Deep afflictions||Given his wealth and philanthropy, Bill Gates will be heard respectfully when he says that millions more in India and Africa will die before the Covid-19 pandemic ends. Sceptical about India’s fatality figure (“The true number... is probably much higher”), Microsoft’s co-founder warns that the disease itself may account for only 10 per cent of future deaths — the knock-on effects will kill millions more. All the more reason, therefore, for using this interregnum to consider not only the threat of decimation but also the challenge of the new norm. It’s popular lore that the Mandarin word for crisis combines two characters standing for danger and opportunity. Where that heady mix will lead no one knows. Viruses have shaped history. Smallpox, measles and influenza epidemics helped European colonization of the Americas. The Spanish flu sparked an economic surge that shaped the Roaring Twenties. Much depends on how long the pandemic rages. Gates’s hope of an effective, mass-produced vaccine by the end of 2021 and the consequent immunization of enough people worldwide to halt the disease in its tracks seems reasonable now that Phase III trials of the Oxford vaccine are imminent. Our problem is with the government’s callously neglected human responsibilities. Covid-19 has exposed India’s scandalously inadequate healthcare system. Remedying this should be Delhi’s first task after the pandemic. Hunger spreads as jobs disappear and agricultural productivity declines. Lockdowns disrupt education. Other causes of death — malaria and HIV here, cancer in the West — are neglected. Amit Shah’s readmission to hospital raises the spectre of relapse after recovery. It’s an unfortunate reflection on public life that any mention of the home minister provokes controversy, and the anecdote with which Cyril Sam and Paranjoy Guha Thakurta opened The Real Face of Facebook in India is again news. It has Shah boasting in September 2018, “We are capable of delivering any message we want to the public, whether sweet or sour, true or fake.” Apparently, a fabricated post about Akhilesh Yadav slapping his father, Mulayam Singh, which went viral, was the handiwork of a “smart” Bharatiya Janata Party volunteer. It’s pointless accusing Facebook, the world’s largest social media company which owns WhatsApp, India’s most popular social messaging app, of bending over backwards to oblige the BJP. Businessmen always hitch their wagon to the ruling star. But the story does confirm the pathetic plight of politics, which seldom rises above one-upmanship and sleight of hand. The tensions of lockdowns don’t make man less ignoble, although fear, isolation and uncertainty may sharpen some existing characteristics as Bengal wonders if haphazard closures ever so often serve any purpose. The latest fad of yellow bins for coronavirus refuse will probably peter out like parking ticket machines whose disappearance allows attendants again to extort whatever they like and pocket the money. Everything is a little more bent in Bengal but national conditions are not much better. If the pandemic has brought out the best in some, it has also brought out the worst. Among the former, the Malappuram villagers who saved passengers after the Calicut crash or the kindness of neighbours who ever so often share their cooked meals with us recall Kipling’s faith that “so long as there is a morsel to divide in India neither priest nor beggar starves”. Among the latter, hoarders and black-marketers who were driven by profit during the Bengal famine are again exploiting today’s shortages. India isn’t alone. The American Federal Bureau of Investigation recorded a 75 per cent increase in digital crime after stay-at-home restrictions began. Interpol says “cyber-criminals are developing and boosting their attacks at an alarming pace, exploiting the fear and uncertainty caused by the unstable social and economic situation...” Retail fraud marches with the higher spending forced on consumers by extortionate sellers. Identity theft is rampant with anxious victims robbed of personal information, credit-card numbers and banking details. These are troubled times with email ‘phishing’, fraudulent websites and malicious domains mushrooming in dozens of countries, ransom demands for stolen personal information, and daylight dacoity like Wednesday’s hijacking of a crowded bus by a private finance company’s loan recovery goons. Instead of being havens of trust, even some banks are in the racket with touts designated ‘relationship managers’. Since shadow markets often follow real markets, the preference for computer payment by many legitimate authorities means an online boom enabling tricksters to demand money for non-existent goods, services or government schemes. Nothing could be more harrowing for governments that take their responsibilities seriously than to have to cope with security threats from a powerful neighbour in the midst of a pandemic. What inhibits realistic analysis is that, as in China, official propaganda is the only source of information. Moreover, our government speaks in so many tongues that the truth remains elusive. Narendra Modi’s Independence Day boast of a “befitting response” to “misadventures along the border” contradicted his June 19 claim that “no one has entered our borders”, “none of our posts has been occupied by anyone” and “not an inch of land has been occupied by anyone”. Trade is another source of confusion. India’s massive deficit and aspects of the trading pattern offend patriotic sentiment. Given our huge domestic need for grain silos, water supply lines and sewage pipes, exporting finished steel makes no sense unless cost effectiveness is pleaded. It’s more likely that as with so much else, decisions are influenced by individual operators without the discipline of an overarching policy in the country’s long-term interest. Can the two economies be disentangled without starving Indian consumers and crippling Indian industry? China’s Global Times responded audaciously that Modi’s ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ dream could be realized if Chinese entrepreneurs manufactured in India. Perhaps properly managed Sino-Indian joint ventures might “revive the animal spirit” Manmohan Singh spoke of instead of reinvigorating only animals who batten on others. But many physical and psychological obstacles have to be overcome. Ambivalence about China has a long history. Needled by Hiren Mukherjee, Jawaharlal Nehru told Parliament in March 1950 that he had “the greatest admiration” for China which he would like to emulate but “that till only a year ago, China was looked upon as a country where corruption, black marketing and every kind of evil prevailed.” Do countries change? It was a licence-permit-raj era joke that India was more capitalist than out-and-out capitalist countries where everything had a price. In India not merely everything but everybody had a price. People, contracts, jobs were for sale. Politicians were products. The social distancing imperative has revived an old argument over lift protocol. Passengers in the first passenger lift in New York in March 1857 were asked to enter and leave swiftly, and face the door while inside. Since lifts could be considered both a private room and a public conveyance, the correct hat etiquette also provoked debate. Men wondered if they should doff their hats if a lady entered. The New York Times suggested a compromise: men could keep their hats on in lifts — sorry, elevators — serving public buildings, but should remove them in hotels and private condominiums. Gender generalizations are tricky. Women always walked behind their menfolk in pre-Second World War Yugoslavia. Noting the post-war reversal of roles, a visitor wondered if Yugoslavs had become chivalrous. “Chivalry be damned!” was the reply. “The land is full of mines”. The land is also too full of viruses that cloud the future. Not economies alone but the world is in a coma. But it seems undeniable that not much thought is being given to anticipating and shaping the awaited new norm to serve all Indians equally, and not only the privileged few, after everyone wakes up. Covid-19 may be no respecter of rank, but as Raghuram Rajan rightly says, it is “an ‘anti-Robin Hood’... it hits the poor even harder on every front.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-161
