23-08-2020||Opinion||Golden wings||Sir — Kerala in association with the World Wide Fund is all set to organize a dragonfly festival with training sessions and a ‘dragonfly backyard watch’. Citizen science projects such as this are perfect to build a bridge between man and nature, which is key to protecting the delicate ecological balance which, given a chance, can thrive. Considering the amount of space humans take up, man-animal conflict is now unavoidable. It is thus extremely important that people learn to cohabit with creatures. Insects are especially misunderstood and the dragonfly festival is thus a step in the right direction.  Rima Roy Calcutta Sir — A Supreme Court bench has said that it is “strange” that state governments are opening up activities that have an impact on economic interests but keeping religious places shut. But is this really so strange? Economic activities — even the running of malls and beauty parlours — have a direct effect on livelihood, something that puts food on the table and keeps people alive. Surely, the same cannot be said of religious worship? People can worship in private, do they really need to go to a temple to do that? Most religions say that god is omnipresent; where then is the need to place one’s faith in man-made stone idols? One must not forget that it is idolatry that led to the inception of one of the darkest periods in the history of independent India. Given that the destruction and hooliganism started by L.K. Advani’s rath yatra has now reached its culmination with the bhoomi pujan for the Ram mandir, perhaps one should not be surprised that religion is still considered on a par with — if not more important than — life and death. The only way to keep the virus at bay is to avoid social interactions. Essential activities cannot be stopped, but all other activities must be cut down upon as far as possible. Congregating in places of religious worship, in times like these, cannot but be considered an unnecessary hazard. Rishi Mathur Gurgaon Sir — One small hole is all it takes for a dam to break. Once one community is allowed to visit their places of worship — the Supreme Court has ordered the opening of some Jain temples in Maharashtra — other communities will ask for the same privilege. Soon, the request will not just be to visit temples but also to celebrate festivals — with Durga Puja around the corner, such requests are only to be expected. Since governments irrespective of their political colour pay more attention to pleasing populist sentiments, it is the duty of the courts to ensure that people do not get carried away. Religion cannot be allowed to get in the way of people’s well-being. It does not need to be practised in public with other people, it can very well take place within the safety of the home. Ashok Kumar Sen Kalyani Sir — Journalism is in a state of considerable flux. New digital platforms have unleashed innovative journalistic practices that enable novel forms of communication and greater global reach than at any point before this in human history. But on the other hand, disinformation and fake news have also increased and spread like wildfire. This is affecting the way people interpret news and daily developments in the country. Fake news and sophisticated disinformation campaigns are especially problematic in democratic systems. In order to maintain an open, democratic system, it is important that the government, businesses, consumers and hoi polloi work together to solve these problems. Governments should promote news literacy and a strong culture of journalism. The news industry must also step up and provide high-quality journalism in order to gain public trust and counter fake news and disinformation instead of legitimizing them to increase TRP. Mohd. Noor Calcutta Sir — Journalism and fake news have become near inseparable at present. This does not bode well. Roshni Sen Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-160
23-08-2020||Opinion||Bihar election and its conspiracy theories||Election season is the most salubrious time for conspiracy theories. Many political observers refuse to believe that assembly elections in Bihar will be held amidst the pandemic. They predict dramatic changes, including a collapse of existing alliances if not a realignment of forces. The political grapevine is abuzz with the possibility of a delay in elections because the Bharatiya Janata Party does not want to contest in alliance with Nitish Kumar’s Janata Dal (United) and it would like Bihar to be placed under president’s rule before campaigning starts. While Kumar’s clout will be whittled down considerably and the BJP will occupy the driving seat in such an event, conspiracy theorists also suspect the dynamics of the Opposition to change, forcing a multi-cornered contest. These observers believe that the BJP will become the front-runner if the Rashtriya Janata Dal and the Congress fall apart and contest separately. This will split the Muslim votes among three parties — RJD, JD(U) and Congress. Although this sounds far-fetched at present, some old-timers claim forces were working on such a plan and nobody knows how effectively it can be executed. Since there are so many loose ends and so many divergent players involved, it is difficult to predict how this plot will unfold. But there is no doubt that the current leadership of the BJP is capable of thinking big and also has the courage and the wherewithal to implement even the most bizarre scripts. After all, luring Kumar away from RJD-Congress, too, was beyond comprehension before it actually happened. If such a four-way contest actually happens, Kumar can only pray for a hung assembly to get back in a position to bargain once again. The BJP claims time and again that Narendra Modi is the most workaholic prime minister the country has ever had. Modi, it is said, sleeps only for 4-5 hours. When Modi is such a hard worker, how can his closest confidante from way back in his Gujarat days, Amit Shah, be otherwise? Although there is nothing in the public discourse about how many hours the home minister sleeps, he is said to be no less than Modi. Recently, when Shah recovered from Covid-19 and had to be rushed to AIIMS again for “post-Covid care”, it was his obsession with work that was blamed for the visit. “Doctors had advised complete rest but Amitbhai spent long hours working from home,” one BJP leader said. Shah is much younger than Modi but unlike the PM he has other known health conditions. Even under observation at AIIMS, BJP leaders claim, Shah continues to discharge his duties. While past PMs and ministers have also been known to put in long hours, the BJP has succeeded in building a perception that those who ruled before them were only interested in enjoying the fruits of power. “Hum desh ke liye khapne aaye hain (We have come here to get spent for the country)”, the PM repeatedly claims. The former national security adviser, Shivshankar Menon, was in the crosshairs of the right-wing this week, purportedly for writing in Foreign Affairs, the American magazine of international relations, that the president of the United States of America, Donald Trump, gave “the Modi government a free pass on its controversial domestic agenda”. This was interpreted by the right wing as an invitation to the US to interfere in India’s internal affairs but the sub-text of the criticism seems to be an effort to put some distance between Modi and his “friend”, Trump, as the US heads towards presidential polls. What really seems to have got the detractors’ goat is Menon writing that Modi shared Trump’s world view and politics. That this reminder to an American audience in election season is not something the ruling dispensation here wants right now from someone who is respected in foreign policy circles was evident from the counter written by another former foreign secretary, Kanwal Sibal, who claimed that it is absurd to say that “Modi shares Trump’s world view and politics”. The chief minister of Kerala, Pinarayi Vijayan, has never been a media darling. But many Malayalis seem to be missing him ever since he went into self-quarantine last week. His typical style of delivering the latest numbers and addressing media queries has become a staple for many Malayalis. It would not be an exaggeration to say that a number of people are waiting for him to come out of quarantine in order to hear the staccato delivery of the latest Covid-19 updates again. A section of the BJP in Karnataka has been eyeing a change at the top by replacing the 77-year-old CM, BS Yediyurappa, with a younger leader. The talk within party circles is that the Lingayat strongman is not a strongman after all. But the larger question that is haunting everyone is who would replace the man who single-handedly brought the party to power in a southern state more than a decade ago. The BJP has perhaps been over-reliant on the ageing warhorse.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-160
23-08-2020||Opinion||And other demons||This is a way to kill a wife with kindness. But when Petruchio, the canny husband of Katherina, or Kate, describes his own behaviour thus in The Taming of the Shrew, he adds that it is meant to “curb her mad and headstrong humour”. Not that such a Shakespearian situation is common in present-day India; it is the husband’s “headstrong humour” that society expects. Neither is there any need to attribute the Kate-like propensity for a waspish tongue to a woman who feels stifled by spousal kindness. Yet Shakespeare’s witty vision is unfailing: in the Sambhal district of Uttar Pradesh, a woman married around 18 months ago asked the Sharia court for a divorce because her husband is too loving. He never shouts or quarrels, never blames or criticizes her. What is married life without a slugfest or two? The woman cannot stand it. The Sharia court was quite unable to address the complaint. The woman had no other reason for asking for a divorce. In a country where men are famed for beating up their wives and in a world where the distribution of daily tasks is still a subject of contention in numerous societies, this woman’s husband not only helps in the housework but also cooks for his wife from time to time. As determined as the Shakespearian heroine, the woman went to the panchayat to ask for a divorce when the Sharia court asked her to be reasonable. The panchayat refused her request too. Since all the husband is doing is trying to keep his wife happy, as he has said, how can a divorce be granted? Besides, the husband requested the court to ensure that his wife’s petition is dismissed. Surely that is love, and not control? Would Shakespeare have understood the woman’s ‘reason’? If she finds unwavering lovey-doveyness stifling, she is probably like the majority of human beings, unsaintly and erratic, and comfortable with similar fallibilities in her spouse. Everyday piety has the potential to set a partner’s teeth on edge, especially if it is directed towards pleasing him or her. That is not fair, just human. Women devastated by their husbands’ violence may find this petition for divorce incredible; they might ask whether the woman in UP would have complained if her husband was beating her up regularly. Others, who dream of an equal relationship, would agree that excessive peace may deaden a marriage. Disagreements are natural if two people living together speak their minds: they provide the spark that helps the relationship evolve as well as a bridge between two individuals trying to understand one another. Insoluble disagreements can destroy a marriage, of course, but then, marriage is a highly risky institution. Even an excessive desire to please may endanger it, as the inoffensive husband in Sambhal has found. Or is it because women in India are simply not used to tenderly loving husbands?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-160
23-08-2020||Opinion||One for all||Nature, a perceptive thinker has said, is always ahead of the avant-garde. Which is to say that even the ‘advance guard’ of artists and writers which thinks and expresses things before others do is behind nature. Art can be daring, writing audacious. For sheer originality, however, nature is not to be overtaken. Human nature, likewise, may be said to be ever ahead of those who try to understand it or dare to shape it. M.K. Gandhi, who tried to do both, has, not surprisingly, been described as one who was ‘ahead of his time’. I am not sure if anyone can, in the linear logic of chronology, ever be ahead of his time. But studying human behaviour as thoroughly as he did, ‘in foul weather and fair’, Gandhi had acquired the knack of anticipating collective responses to events and then either encouraging or resisting those responses. He knew in his bones that India’s struggle for freedom was a historical imperative and did all he could to take it forward. He knew likewise in the pulse of his being that partitioning India was wrong and did all he possibly could to avert it. He along with Khan Abdul Ghaffar Khan knew that communal divisiveness would outlast the drawing of the Radcliffe lines. So much so that in the embers of 1946, while the subcontinent prepared itself for the transfer of power, he, with Ghaffar Khan, made sure that where the fires would rage — along the borders of the two coming-to-be dominions — they would be. As the “one man boundary force” (Lord Mountbatten’s description of him) that he became, Gandhi could not extinguish those fires but he did succeed in dousing innumerable flames — with the help of some incredible volunteers in the same cause, like Sachin Mitra and Smritish Banerjea of Calcutta who died by standing between two rioting mobs. Gandhi was in Calcutta in August 1947 to head for Noakhali where he had promised to return to quell the still-smouldering embers of violence against the minority Hindu community there. But the situation in the city was so explosive that its anxious residents, starting from Governor Frederick Burrows and the outgoing and incoming heads of government —Shaheed Suhrawardy and Prafulla Ghosh — to citizens’ groups, prevailed on him to remain among them awhile. He agreed provided he was enabled to stay in one of the city’s most endangered suburbs — Beliaghata was chosen — with Hindus working for the safety of that area’s, and the city’s, Muslim residents. He also asked the Muslims who had urged him to remain in Calcutta to do what they could to protect Hindu lives in East Bengal. These conditions accepted, he stayed in the city. Calcutta was tense beyond imagining at ‘the midnight hour’. But Gandhi’s presence was a balm and Suhrawardy, with Direct Action Day of the previous August haunting his conscience, stayed by his side in what now seems like a combination of motives — self-protection, expiation, admiration. On the evening of August 14, 1947, Suhrawardy took Gandhi on a drive through the city to show him the peace and camaraderie prevailing — doubtless with a view to saying wordlessly ‘See Gandhiji, this is the composed city I am handing over to Prafullababu’. All hell was to break loose in Calcutta not long thereafter but, for the while, there was calm. On this day — August 23 — in 1947 Gandhi woke as was his practice in his Beliaghata camp-house at 3.30 a.m. and after his morning quiet and in-house prayers spent time writing letters and then went for his pre-dawn walk, barefoot. “This reminds me of Noakhali,” he told Manu and Abha (his grand niece and grand niece-in-law). Except for an interval of half an hour to eat and an equal time for rest, he worked on papers until 2 pm when he gave interviews, mainly to volunteers, until 5 pm when he went for a prayer meeting open to all, held at ‘Woodlands’, the spacious garden-residence of the Maharaja of Cooch Behar. I do not know if there is a plaque at the hospital with the same name that stands today on that spot to commemorate that prayer meeting but there ought to be one. For just this reason that what Gandhi said that evening in Hindi at that congregation reads like it could have been written — ahead of the times — for us today. The Maharaja and his family were all present there with the great throng, as was Major General Shah Nawaz Khan of the Indian National Army. It was, in other words, a Hindu-Muslim gathering, just the kind that Gandhi would have liked to be with at that time.Manu has recorded in her diary entries published as Miracle of Calcutta (Navajivan, 1959): “Bapu spoke on unity”. Little else need be said. But she does more. She transcribes the words he spoke. They are worth reading verbatim in the following English rendering: “(Bapu said) Hindus should not object to the shouting of ‘Allahu Akbar’, nor should the Muslims object to ‘Vande Mataram’. The two slogans are however somewhat different. ‘Allahu Akbar’ means ‘God is Great’. What does it matter if the slogan is in Arabic? Is it sinful if it is in a foreign language? And ‘Vande Mataram’ means ‘I bow to our beloved Mother India’. Is anything wrong in this?” Gandhi then goes on to say something which all those who were viewing the proceedings at Ayodhya on August 5, 2020 on different screens should have heard: “But these days our minds are much confused. If your hearts are one I suggest that Musulmans should be free to worship Mother Kali and Hindus should go to the Masjid with equal freedom.” It is extremely unlikely that any Musulman hearing him would have wanted to worship Mother Kali or would want to do so today. And I do not know if many Hindus in that congregation would have wanted to go to mosques to pray or would want to do so today. But the far-seeing and foreseeing Gandhi knew that the spirit behind what he was saying, the idea underlying his spoken words, was sinking into those who were hearing him. And was crucial if India was to be and feel one as in ‘We the people of India...’ He knew that India has always had its discords, its communal divides and there will always be people who will turn their heads away when someone says Allahu Akbar and others who will do the same when they hear Vande Mataram. But then there will also be those many who will see the folly and the danger of that. He knew that Hindus and Muslims may not worship (or be permitted to worship) in each other’s shrines but that there will be many who will respect those shrines and the worship that takes place in those shrines not because they are their shrines but because they are sites of prayer and worship. For Gandhi, a temple was not Hindu nor a mosque Muslim. It was, like any chapel, an agiari, synagogue, chaitya or gurudwara, a place where god, not egos, dwelt. And where men and women went to seek light, not power. Which is why in the Ashram Bhajanavali that he inspired Pandit Narayan Moreshwar Khare to compile for the morning and evening prayers at Sabarmati Ashram, he included texts from all the major religions of the world as also the full song of which, years later, the major part was to become our national anthem. That song, in its unabridged form, has the line: “rakkha karile anke snehamayi tumi mata — Loving as you are, Mother, protect us, save us!” Us. That is what the avant-garde student of human nature in him saw us as — an us, with hearts that are one, needing our loving mother’s — India’s — protection from the ugly and the base in the same us. And that evening on August 23, he said what he said in a maharaja’s palace which is now a hospital where, as in countless other hospitals, stricken men and women and children come to be protected, saved, irrespective of what and where they worship or worship anything at all. He knew us.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-160
23-08-2020||Opinion||How to fake an altruism||When a corporate house fakes an altruism it sounds like this --- “...an open, transparent and non-partisan platform... we denounce hate and bigotry in any form.” Facebook India vice-president and managing director Ajit Mohan's comment from last week follows a Wall Street Journal report alleging public policy director of Facebook India, Ankhi Das, opposed applying hate-speech rules to the BJP even after the matter was flagged internally. In May, soon after George Floyd’s murder, Trump posted on Twitter and Facebook “when the looting starts, the shooting starts”. While Twitter restricted the post, Facebook left it there. Furious Facebook employees staged a protest and there were a couple of resignations too. When Zuckerberg did a video conference with employees, and stumbled on being asked if the VP–Integrity had been part of the decision, one employee reportedly said, “How can we trust Facebook leadership if you show us a lack of transparency?” Facebook, its delights notwithstanding, was created with the express purpose of networking. A decade and a half on, there is no doubt it has made the leap from dorm to dominion in terms of ambition, scope and influence. But can the same be said for its mission, vision and sense of responsibility? Content is one part of the concern and another part is privacy. For a platform whose founder is "humbilically" attached to his hoodie, from the start Facebook has grappled with privacy issues. In 2006, users complained its news feed was too intrusive, then there was the time when companies could track purchases of Facebook users and intimate their friends. In 2011, there was a bug that revealed private contact info of users. That same year, Zuckerberg himself joined Google+, gained a following and then turned invisible using to the hilt the privacy settings. In 2013, Zuckerberg paid $30 million to buy four houses in the neighbourhood where he lived. For privacy’s sake, why else? But in 2018, when it came to be known that truckloads of personal data of Facebook users had been harvested and sold to Cambridge Analytica, Zuckerberg’s reflex was to go missing for close to a week. It is now known that employees had alerted the company about the goings-on as early as 2015. Facebook claims it took silent steps, but it parted ways with the data firm only after the Observer expose. Not long ago, when pushed to a corner about Facebook’s responsibility in influencing the 2016 US presidential polls, Zuckerberg said, “We can defend as best as we can, but our government is the one that has the tools to apply pressure to Russia, not us... That’s something that is a little bit above our pay grade.” Crass-sounding, it might be, and disappointing; but it is closer to reality than any platitude.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-160
23-08-2020||Opinion||Oh My Dil Is Garden Garden||And would it not be? The more I ravage about, the more they rave about me. The more I destroy, the more they deify me. The more I crush them, the more they crave. For Me. For Me. For Me. I am the Emperor of Ruins, I survey all that I have destroyed, I live in a garden redolent with the fragrance of flowers gone to rust. I cannot make it worse, and yet nobody can so much as touch me. It’s just the way it is, I have become the UntouchableOne, the UnputdownableOne. What would you put me down for, anyhow? There’s nothing to be gained. All is now lost. I saw to it, that’s the job you gave me and I grabbed it with both hands and a dagger. I plunged it everywhere. Everything bleeds, and the blood feeds everything. Just look around me, around this splendour of my conjuring, this splendoured desolation where nothing needs no more to be done because all of it is done. To dust. There is no more to be done. This place is to be the end of all places. This place is where I had set out to reach. This is the place from where there is no going on, nowhere to go. Such is the place I command. Like a King with a kingdom of the dead and the done. It’s where I flourish and nobody else, for it is all for me and not for you. I step out and I see everything wilted but me. That’s how it should be. If you do not wilt, you shall rise. And if you rise, you shall become to me what I do not wish you to become to me: a challenge. What part did you have in it? It is the part you shall one day regret. You chose. What part do you still have in it? Hmm. But you have a part. Your part is to wilt, and wither away so I may have sway. Your part is to hail or be hastened to your end. For there is no provision left for any other part. This garden, you see, is the garden of graves; I told you everything has been done. To dust. Or done in. Seek out your part, the part of you that remains. I didn’t bother putting names down, I am sorry, but there were so many of you. Too much work. There is too much else I need to attend to. More of you. That’s what. That’s who. I say all is done, and then there is more to be done. I contradict myself, but if I do not contradict myself how am I doing to you what I am doing to you when I had vowed only to do for you? But you won’t understand, you dunces. I never trusted you would. That’s the trust I rode all the way here, the trust of dunces, or the trust that dunces will be dunces. For every rusted rose in this garden I possess a less rusted one whose task it is to tell upon the more rusted one. And learning from the less rusted ones, I turn upon the more rusted ones. And then the less rusted ones turn more rusted and there are more less rusted ones and so, on and on. So on and on this goes on, this flourished garden of mine that I keep famished. Because when you bleed, it feeds my greed. And shall I tell you what that greed makes me want to do? Something has to be done with it because there are masses of it, the greed, and it cannot just be washed down the sink or that other thing with a gurgling orifice at the bottom of it. The greed needs attention and action. It needs to be exhausted for it to be done. And so would you be interested to know what I do with it? I shall cut you and hang you out to dry. And when that drying has happened, years and all, I shall come to shed the final drops on your cortège. Live. Televised. Tears of Blood. Thereupon I shall command the gardeners to commence their jobs — planting and plucking and pruning and cutting and casting away. So this place may prosper anew in the silence of its debacles and turn an even more uproarious celebration of unspeakable tragedy. Upon which I shall chisel an epitaph: And the cry rose But I am the real rose And that may make me curious Rose, might you just be spurious.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-160
