24-08-2020||Opinion||Without parallel: Ganesh Puja live stream||Sir — It was interesting to read that a club in Salt Lake live-streamed the Ganesh Puja rituals by fixing a giant-screen on a stage in the area. Many Durga Puja organizers are likely to follow the same path this year given the pandemic. Although with the easy availability of advanced technology, darshan and even offering anjali — which are part and parcel of the lives of most Bengalis — are now possible from the comfort of one’s home, e-darshan or e-anjali could never give the same amount of happiness and satisfaction. Seeing a protima with one’s own eyes and chanting the anjali with friends and strangers are irreplaceable. Sourish Misra, Calcutta Evil path Sir — The disclosure by The Wall Street Journal that Facebook is inclined to err on the side of caution when it comes to commercial success and has refrained from taking a firm stand against hate posts uploaded by internet users affiliated to the Bharatiya Janata Party has serious implications for our democracy. As a commercial entity, there is nothing wrong with Facebook wanting to be successful. But it cannot be guided by the unethical principle of the end justifying the means. Ankhi Das, whose job includes lobbying the Indian government on behalf of Facebook, has allegedly told the staff that “punishing violations by politicians from Mr. Modi’s party would damage the company’s business prospects in the country”. This borders on collusion with the nefarious agenda of a political party to manipulate people’s trust. Das is free to have a political leaning or even close ties with the BJP’s top leaders but she cannot bring them into play when she is making business decisions. It is unacceptable for any business platform to allow posts intended to spread the poison of religious hatred. Online posts with the potential to incite hatred and violence in real-world situations must be anathema, even in the face of economic loss. Facebook cannot redeem its reputation — which is now in tatters — merely by hiding behind platitudes like freedom of expression or democratization of discourse. These ideals cannot be pursued at the cost of communal peace and harmony. Hate speeches on social media have resulted in outbreaks of communal violence. Facebook must be hauled up for relaxing its hate-speech rules when it came to Hindutva zealots and acting against the sanctity of Indian democracy and its political processes. This is not a question of Rahul Gandhi being a ‘loser’ or Narendra Modi being a ‘victor’; it is a question of preventing social media sites from exerting a baneful influence on our democracy. India’s destiny is to be decided by Indian people and not by rapacious multinational social media behemoths. The WSJ’s exposé that Facebook showed “favouritism” and provided “favourable treatment” to the BJP on election-related issues has taken some shine off the party’s electoral victories. As a first remedial step, representatives of Facebook can appear before the parliamentary standing committee on information technology as suggested by its chairperson, Shashi Tharoor. G. David Milton,Maruthancode, Tamil Nadu Sir — In a recent report, the WSJ alleged that Facebook’s executive in India has said that its “hate speech rules” do not apply to at least four individuals and groups linked with the ruling party who were promoting or participating in violence. Although Facebook clarified that it would not permit the use of its platform for hateful content that could instigate violence, the WSJ report laid out in detail how current and former Facebook employees in India were told that the company’s business prospects would be hurt by applying the rules to ruling party members. Significantly, the WSJ report also points out that Facebook India deleted the said hate posts after investigative enquiries made by it. This confirms that the charges raised against Facebook are not completely baseless. Facebook has become a powerful media platform where 300 million Indians are active users. They get their daily dose of news, views and entertainment on the platform. Yet, it is not subject to any regulations applicable to Indian newspapers. Allegations of misuse of the platform by the Russians in the last presidential elections of the United States of America, privacy violations and clear links between social media misinformation and hate crimes forced the company to change its business policy in the West. In India, social media videos and viral fake news have triggered communal riots and lynchings frequently. Another menace is WhatsApp, also owned by Facebook; it reportedly helped miscreants coordinate during the violence in Jawaharlal Nehru University earlier this year. Facebook is also letting hate speech spread unchecked across Assam, where the minority community is already being harassed by issues related to the National Register of Citizens. Now the social media giant has been summoned by the parliamentary standing committee on information technology to answer questions on the alleged collusion. The committee must investigate Facebook and its claims of prohibiting hate speech irrespective of party affiliations. China and Pakistan could be using the platform to risk India’s national security. The recent ban on some Chinese apps makes this threat even more potent. The ruling party should try and clear its name at the earliest. Khokan Das,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-159
24-08-2020||Opinion||Trust test: Multilateralism in retreat||Multilateralism is in retreat. The corresponding revival of the spirit of unilateralism around the world would support such conjecture. But this withdrawal of multilateralism cannot be pinned on the lapel of an ascendant authoritarian politics. The rot, India’s external affairs minister, S. Jaishankar, pointed out in a recent address, may lie within the world’s multilateral framework. The lack of seamless leadership, Mr Jaishankar deduced, is one of the fundamental causes that explain multilateralism’s failure to respond to such critical challenges as the pandemic that has brought nation-states and their economies to their knees. This paucity in the leadership criterion, Mr Jaishankar emphasized, can be attributed to a telling lacuna. The element of competitive politics within the international fraternity seems to have played a fundamental role in the erosion of the foundations of multilateralism. The key to the revival of international fraternity lies, Mr Jaishankar pointed out, in the resurrection of trust in diplomacy. It would be interesting to assess New Delhi’s diplomatic performance in its immediate neighbourhood by applying Mr Jaishankar’s trust test. There is legitimate concern that India has lost its friendly footing in a number of nations with which it shares borders. Ties with Pakistan, given the political and ideological disposition of the government that Mr Jaishankar serves, have reflected a severe shortage of mutual trust. But India’s equations with even traditional allies — Nepal, Bangladesh, Bhutan — no longer exhibit a degree of certitude. Kathmandu and New Delhi have been sparring on maps; the foreign secretary rushed to Dhaka recently to douse fires, presumably. There are rumblings in diplomatic quarters about the present — muscular — government’s failure to appreciate the finer nuances of diplomacy that is, arguably, causing a dip in trust. Diplomacy — Mr Jaishankar would surely agree — is the art of putting brain over brawn. The Bharatiya Janata Party’s bunglings on this front — its foreign policy is decidedly influenced by its aggressive domestic political imperatives — only reiterate the importance of trust-building. Was the minister preaching to the wrong audience?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-159
24-08-2020||Opinion||Great burden: Employment crisis in India||The worst effect of the pandemic on the Indian economy has been the widespread loss of jobs, substantial pay cuts, and disruptions in education and training programmes. A recent survey published by the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy states that 1.89 crore salaried Indian workers have lost their jobs during the period between April and July this year. The estimate was based on a survey conducted across 1.74 lakh households. Many of these salaried workers are in the informal sector, which has been affected adversely. Micro businesses, street vendors, self-employed workers, daily wage earners, such as construction workers and household helps, have lost their incomes and jobs. Another report published jointly by the International Labour Organization and the Asian Development Bank claims that 41 lakh Indian youths in the age group of 15-24 lost their jobs during the pandemic. About two-thirds of firm apprenticeships were lost, as were three-fourths of all industry internships. According to labour market experts, the employment situation is unlikely to improve before 2022-23. Even the Reserve Bank of India has claimed that economic recovery will only start in the second half of 2021. Two things must be remembered in this context. First, there was a backlog of unemployment from 2019. Last year, there were 16 crore youths who were not in employment, education or training. While the adult unemployment rate was 3 per cent, the youth unemployment rate was 13.8 per cent. Second, this drag on unemployment will increase even further as 10 million young Indians finish some sort of education programme or training every year. Hence, by 2022, the absolute volume of unemployed youth is likely to be alarmingly high. The much-touted demographic dividend may become a demographic nightmare. Even when recovery starts, new jobs will not be available to youths without training or experience. Older, experienced workers will be more in demand. This unemployment will be a huge waste of the human resources that the nation possesses. The government, however, does not seem to be bothered by it. The official thinking is that everyone will acquire skills and become successful entrepreneurs as if by some magic. There is no urgency revealed in government policies to create jobs and opportunities for youths. It is perhaps no coincidence that the government has decided to remove the words, ‘human resource development’, from the ministry that looks after education and training. The phenomenon of wasted lives can become toxic if the political system usurps their energy and transforms them into foot soldiers of political parties out to consolidate power and enhance their ability to silence dissent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-159
24-08-2020||Opinion||No real change with Israel-UAE diplomatic ties||The ‘two-state solution’ is still dead. The deal to open diplomatic ties between Israel and the United Arab Emirates, announced by Israel’s prime minister, Benjamin Netanyahu, in Jerusalem recently opens no new vistas for a ‘just peace’ between the Israelis and the Arabs. It just repackages the existing reality. There wasn’t any possibility of an independent Palestinian state in the Israel-occupied territories two weeks ago; there still isn’t now. There was only a very small chance that Netanyahu would annex the occupied territories to Israel before the Israel-UAE deal was announced (although he talked about it a lot), and there’s even less chance of it now. No real change on the international front either. Israel and the Arab countries are already at peace, with the partial exceptions of Syria and Lebanon, although few people in the region would call it a ‘just peace’. And the UAE has already been doing business quietly with Israel on everything from trade to defence planning (against Iran) for years. Egypt and Jordan have had formal diplomatic relations with Israel for decades, and the other Gulf states will soon follow the UAE’s example, perhaps with Saudi Arabia bringing up the rear. The Palestinians, mostly living under Israeli occupation, understandably complain that they are being abandoned by their Arab brothers, but that really happened long ago. So what has actually changed now? Very little, although Donald Trump naturally tweeted that it was a “HUGE breakthrough” and his son-in-law and senior adviser, Jared Kushner, promised that the deal would bring “massive change” and “make the Middle East safer”. Rubbish. The last Arab-Israeli war was 47 years ago, and it’s been decades since either side even had serious plans for one. The only plausible risk of a major cross-border in the Middle East these days is between Iran on one side and the Arab Gulf states (with or without Israel) on the other. That’s not really a big risk either, but the Arab Gulf states in particular worry aloud about it, and to some extent they have convinced themselves that it truly is a threat. They hope that they would have Israel’s support in such a war. Netanyahu’s government hates and says it fears Iran, so it probably would help the Arabs in the end. However, it would be a much more convincing deterrent for Iran if these putative Arab and Israeli allies were actually seen together in public occasionally. That’s the main reason for the Gulf states to go beyond the furtive relationship they have hitherto had with Israel. Netanyahu insists that annexation is only postponed, assuring Israelis that it is still “on the table”. Donald Trump says, “they agreed not to do it. This is a very smart concession by Israel. It is off the table now”. ‘Long-term’ for both of them is reckoned in months, so they have no idea how irrelevant all this diplomatic fine-tuning will seem in retrospect. The old Middle East is living through its final years. Across the Arab world every power relationship has been defined by oil wealth for the past two generations, and now the wealth is fading fast. Eight years ago the Arab oil-producing states were making a trillion dollars a year from their exports. Today their oil revenue is down by two-thirds ($300 billion), and it will fall further. The coronavirus has accelerated this decline, but demand and prices have both been trending down for quite a while, and the growing unpopularity of fossil fuels in a rapidly warming world guarantees there will be no reversal of the trend. Saudi Arabia and the UAE still have large reserves of cash, but some of the smaller oil-states are running out of money right now. Economic devastation will be followed by political collapse: even the map of the Middle East may look quite different in 10 or 20 years’ time. And who will emerge from the wreckage as the sole big powers of the Middle East? Only the two countries with fully modern and diversified economies and little dependence on oil revenues: Israel and Turkey. Funny how things turn out, isn’t it?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-160
24-08-2020||Opinion||An unfair edge||If you want to bring powerful private players to heel, you cannot afford to be a soft State. That is as true of tackling the media and the digital economy as it is of  banking and industry. The antitrust hearings, which played out in the US legislature last month, saw Congressmen and Senators grill the top executives of Amazon, Alphabet (which owns Google), Facebook and Apple with a degree of sharpness made possible by fairly massive preparatory research. Their system facilitates it. The virtual hearing on July 29 was the culmination of a year-long process after the relevant subcommittee of the US Congress issued “sweeping bipartisan requests for information” to the four firms, to quote its chairman. They examined millions of pages of evidence from the companies as well as more than a hundred market participants, conducted hundreds of hours of interviews, obtained damaging email evidence, held five prior hearings and numerous briefings with experts and stakeholders. Over the six hours of hearings for which the Big Four appeared online, you heard the legislators spell out the numbers regarding the market dominance of each and make a case for curtailing “business practices and decisions [that] have an outsized effect on our economy and our democracy.” The chairman asked, “So, why does this matter? Many of the practices used by these companies have harmful economic effects. They discourage entrepreneurship, destroy jobs, hike costs, and degrade quality.” To that list, the Conservatives added the charge that they seek to impact elections. Much evidence was cited of buying up or blocking potential competition, mining user data, acquiring makers of tools which destroy user anonymity and so on. A report on this hearing due this month is expected to recommend major changes in antitrust legislation to give regulators more powers to deal with the sharp practices of these firms. Anti-competitive behaviour is anathema there, but not here. So when the going gets tough in other parts of the world, head for India. The prime minister will meet you and post the picture on his Facebook page and on Twitter. If you invest in the country’s biggest conglomerate, the regulators (going by their past record) will be a soft touch, and the world’s second biggest internet market could be yours to conquer, particularly at a time when Chinese technology is in bad odour. In April and in July this year, Facebook Inc and Alphabet-Google invested $5.7 billion and $4.5 billion, respectively, in Jio platforms. Overall, Reliance has sold stake worth over $20 billion in its technology venture that will now enable it to establish dominance across sectors, including telecom, internet, broadcasting, and online and offline retail. Some sort of regulatory clearance is needed for these investments, but the confident announcements do not suggest that any hitches are expected on that front. Around the same time, Reliance has acquired the digital cable television and broadband internet service providers, DEN and Hathway, and merged them with Network18 and TV18. Announcing the merger in July, the chairman, Mukesh Ambani, said it would make the Network18 group the largest listed media and distribution company in the country, subject to regulatory approvals. The process started in early 2012 when RIL bought debentures in Network18’s promoter group companies. In 2014, it took complete control of Network18. Put together the market share of Jio, Network18 and Google and Facebook in India and you have what could potentially be an antitrust regulator’s nightmare. But then effective broadcast regulation has never been a strong point of India’s media and communications ecosystem. The industry does not want it. The CEO of Alphabet and Google, Sundar Pichai, fighting a battle in Australia where lawmakers want to make the internet search behemoth compensate content providers, and facing antitrust charges in the European Union, also announced in July a $10-billion investment in India over the next five to seven years. This, apparently, is the first country-specific fund of its kind. That sweetener made for bigger headlines than an ongoing investigation into Google’s alleged monopolistic practices here. Earlier this year, the Competition Commission of India began investigating whether Google is abusing its market position to unfairly promote its own mobile payments app in this country by showcasing Google Pay more prominently inside its app store on android phones in India. Google already dominates search, video, maps and email here. How much will come of such scrutiny is hard to say. The CCI, after all, is the same regulator that ruled in 2017 that Jio’s initial launch offer of free internet access did not amount to predatory pricing. (The Reliance foray into 4G mobile internet in 2016 was free for six months and raked up for the new network 100 million subscribers in 170 days.) Legislators here could step in if the regulator does not prevent moves towards establishing market dominance. But their attention is currently focused on the political issues concerning Facebook. The Wall Street Journal reported that the company’s public policy head in India had told her staff not to apply hate speech rules to individuals linked to the ruling party despite them being flagged for promoting or participating in violence. She apparently said that it would affect Facebook’s business prospects in India. That story was seized upon by the Congress’s Shashi Tharoor who heads the information technology parliamentary committee. He has summoned Facebook executives to face a parliamentary probe. But the response of the leaders of the Bharatiya Janata Party has been so aggressive that now there is a demand to have Tharoor dropped as the head of the IT panel. No bipartisan will is in evidence here. Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook’s founder-CEO, and Narendra Modi have courted each other since the latter became prime minister. Facebook’s acquisition of WhatsApp in 2014 quickly became a handy political tool for the BJP in fighting the subsequent election battles. Ironically the same acquisition, of WhatsApp, has been flagged during the US antitrust hearings as an instance of Facebook acquiring a potential competitor to increase its own footprint. This is why India is, in comparison, a friendly market for Facebook. Meanwhile, after using the Jio stake sale to become debt free, Reliance is preparing to invest in acquisitions and services that will help Jio Mart take on Amazon’s aggressive drive for market share in India. The US subcommittee hearing observed in its opening remarks that while Covid-19 had adversely impacted many small businesses in the United States of America, it had helped to further enrich the four internet giants with the economy moving online. The same could be said of India’s richest conglomerate and its owner. With Google and Facebook riding piggyback on Jio, his businesses will now encompass all the sectors ruled by those giants: media, retail and now, in collaboration with Google, an entry into the smartphone manufacturing segment. But neither the political nor regulatory class here seems determined to tackle such market dominance. That’s what you call a crony State. The author is a media commentator and was the founder-editor of TheHoot.org||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-160
