25-08-2020||Opinion||Stellar innings: MS Dhoni retires||Sir — On August 15, the former captain of the Indian team, Mahendra Singh Dhoni, took fans by surprise when he announced his retirement from international cricket (“Dhoni stumps all, goes with a song”, Aug 16). After Kapil Dev, it was Dhoni who gave India the World Cup after a drought of 28 years. His rise from being a railway ticket collector in Jharkhand to becoming the poster boy of Indian cricket may sound like a fairy tale but it was his hard work, dedication and perseverance that took him to such heights of success. He is the first and only Indian captain to have won the T20 World Cup, the ICC Cricket World Cup as well as the ICC Champions Trophy. Dhoni was an excellent player — he patented the helicopter shot — and had on many occasions changed the outcome of the game at the last moment. Under his captaincy, the team became a formidable force in international cricket. If Sourav Ganguly had iconic players like Sachin Tendulkar, Rahul Dravid and Virender Sehwag on his team, Dhoni had an equally formidable arsenal comprising Virat Kohli, Rohit Sharma and Suresh Raina. Dhoni’s feats on the cricket field will continue to inspire generations to come. Aditya Mukherjee, Calcutta Sir — Not unlike the time he threw everyone by announcing his retirement from Test cricket on the evening of December 30, 2014, in Melbourne — the Board of Control for Cricket in India simply declared it through a press release — M.S. Dhoni has brought down the curtain on his international career on India’s 74th Independence Day through a simple post on social media. Coming after nearly 400 days since he played his last match for India, Dhoni’s departure caused people around the world to lament the end of an era in cricket. This young man from Ranchi, who made his one-day international debut in 2004, changed the face of Indian cricket with his calm demeanour, sharp understanding of the game and astute leadership qualities. Under his stewardship, India won the T20 World Cup in 2007, the Cricket World Cup in 2011 on home ground, which he spectacularly clinched with a sixer, and the Champions Trophy in 2013. He has been honoured with the Padma Shri, Padma Bhushan and in 2011 he was awarded the rank of lieutenant-colonel in the Indian army. He leaves behind an incredible group of young players and will be remembered as one of India’s greatest sporting icons. S.S. Paul,Nadia Sir — M.S. Dhoni is not only a great sportsman but is also known for his leadership skills and his calm demeanour in the face of insurmountable odds; this earned him the moniker, “Captain Cool”. Much like Sourav Ganguly — he captained the first international match that Dhoni played — Dhoni, too, had an eye for talent. He motivated young team members with his extraordinary performances on the field and showed them how success can be achieved with dedication, discipline and hard work. In spite of his fame, he continued to be a humble individual throughout his cricketing career. We wish him the very best for his journey ahead. Nili Ghosh,Calcutta Sir — The occasion of M.S. Dhoni’s retirement is a good time to thank the former Indian skipper for adding many memorable chapters to Indian cricket. Dhoni was a finisher and will be remembered as the mascot of “Middle India”. As young students, we watched an Indian team led by Dhoni win the 2011 World Cup. There was a frenzied admiration for Dhoni, especially his unique helicopter shot. His composure on the field was remarkable. His talent truly changed the game and led many people to fall in love with the game. Manzar Imam,Purnea, Bihar Sir — It was not a surprise that M.S. Dhoni, who has always been humble both on and off the field, would choose to announce his retirement from international cricket on Instagram with a few chosen words. The lack of fanfare sets him apart from others who would have taken this opportunity to draw the limelight. Dhoni’s fearlessness on the field, his excellent cricketing skills and the Indian team’s victory at the 2011 World Cup under his captaincy will always be some of the defining moments in the history of Indian cricket. Ranganathan Sivakumar,Chennai Sir — A golden era of Indian cricket has come to an end with the retirement of M.S. Dhoni. Recently, while commentating for the match between England and Pakistan at Trent Bridge, the English commentator, Ian Ward, spoke about Dhoni with his colleagues, Nasser Hussain, Shane Warne, Michael Atherton and Wasim Akram. They showered praises on him, talking about his calm head and cricketing skills. Warne even went so far as to say that he was the best wicketkeeper-batsman of all time, comparing him with Ian Healy. Dhoni’s ODI average is above 50; this in spite of the fact that he came out to bat lower down the order. This speaks volumes about his power hitting. Everyone praised Dhoni for his temperament and counted on him to take India over the line at the last moment. Dhoni will be remembered as a true gentleman and the perfect brand ambassador for aspirational India. M.N. Gupta,Bokaro, Jharkhand Out of control Sir — While countries like Indonesia are expecting a baby boom with more people staying at home, others like Australia are facing a demographic downturn as people are unwilling to have children during the pandemic. But this is not as simple as it seems. Women in poorer nations have little control over their body; this crisis is exacerbated by the lack of access to medical facilities owing to Covid-19. Moreover, at a time when many people are unemployed, it is unlikely parents would be able to provide for unplanned children, leaving them vulnerable to malnutrition, neglect and abuse. Srestha Ray,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-159
25-08-2020||Opinion||Mind and body: Anxiety and depression on rise||The elephant in the room cannot go unacknowledged. A study by the International Labour Organization has found that one out of two young people around the world is now subject to anxiety and depression. The findings are not surprising. Globally, the youth are being forced to confront an uncertain future because of disruptions in education and employment — access to education has become constricted and unemployment is rising on account of the pandemic. Ironically, measures to mitigate the threat of Covid-19 — social distancing norms, for instance — are adding to the burden on the mind. The public discourse on Covid-19 continues to view the contagion in physiological terms. Consequently, little is being said — or done — about its debilitating psychological impact, something that has been brought to light by the ILO survey. This anomaly is not unexpected. Mental health problems were already a major contributor to the burden of illness before the pandemic, with a third of all female and a quarter of all male suicides in the world occurring in India. It is true that India has taken some steps to address the rising tide of mental health problems. The government, for instance, provided online training to healthcare workers to address mental health issues; websites have also been set up to help those unable to cope with the psychological fallouts of the pandemic. But this may well be a case of too little, too late. There are three psychiatrists and even fewer psychologists per 1,000,000 Indians; digital illiteracy and patchy access to the internet mean that help, when available, may not reach those who need it. The roots of the problem go deeper. India passed its Mental Healthcare Act as late as 2017. The focus of this policy has been on a ‘bio-medical’ and reactive model of care, including clinical interventions and institutionalization of patients. Social determinants of mental healthcare are still ignored, as are the links between physical and psychological health — data show that loneliness can be as lethal as smoking. Daily attention to the mind’s health is as crucial, especially in India where mental ailment remains a deeply stigmatized subject. This is where education and awareness can play a constructive role. Regular counselling at schools and colleges — not just in privileged institutions — can ignite a culture receptive to the importance of the mind as well as the body. India at present spends a shocking 33 paisa for every mentally ill person per year. That may be the reason why the elephant in the room remains invisible.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-159
25-08-2020||Opinion||Ask again: Modi govt has no time for dissent||Fears of sickness, strangely enough, may incite stirrings of health. When many in India are disturbed by what appears to be an erosion of democratic principles and institutions, a debate about free speech seems to be developing too. The disturbance is not without cause. The Narendra Modi government has no time for dissent or criticism, although democracy evolves through difference. The Supreme Court did emphasize last month that the voice of dissent cannot be suppressed in a democracy. With this principle in view, however, the high court order staying the disqualification of 19 rebel Congress members of the legislative assembly in Rajasthan was upheld. Given that the actions of the rebel MLAs at that time threatened to overturn the elected Congress government, this interpretation of democratic dissent raised difficult questions. Those questions grow sharper when the cases regarding the right to freedom of speech that have come before the Supreme Court this year are studied. The rulings give the unfortunate impression that this freedom is more accessible to those defendants who defend the government while not so much to others. Arguments surrounding Prashant Bhushan’s conviction for contempt of court have further intensified the questions. Refusing to leave the debate to the knowledgeable alone, a Patna college seized the opportunity for a life lesson in constitutional values by setting its students an assignment to study and comment on the conviction. Most students upheld the freedom of speech and opinion, with some suggesting that courts should welcome criticism. A few, partly critical of Mr Bhushan, pointed out that freedom implies responsibility; a minority agreed with the judgment. This is not only an example of free expression of opinion, but also a method of making young people aware of values and their implications. As the principal said, dissent is not destruction — it is disagreement and should be treated as such. That alone marks the health of a democracy, not forms of social media that take sides. But the ethics of free speech are not easy to resolve. Does a publisher, criticized for bringing out a book supposed to be mischievously biased at a sensitive time, violate the right to free speech of its authors by withdrawing it? It will be a positive sign if the debate can continue without unseemly interventions from extraneous powers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-159
25-08-2020||Opinion||Ground realities: The story of journalist Harish Chandola||Bored with his desk job, a young Delhi-based journalist thought of doing something extraordinary in 1952. He planned to go to Tibet with Indian border traders crossing the 19,000-feet-high Mana Pass. Adventure was definitely on his mind. But little did he know that he was going to witness something that would change the geopolitics of Asia forever. As armchair journalists and television anchors rule the roost, the story of the veteran journalist, Harish Chandola, reminds us of the rich rewards of being on the ground. Among the numerous anecdotes in Chandola’s highly readable memoir, At Large in the World, his visit to Tibet and a chance meeting with soldiers of the People’s Liberation Army are the most exhilarating. Tibet was simmering with political tension in the early 1950s. The Chinese army had arrived in Lhasa in 1950, forcing the 15-year-old Dalai Lama to flee. Chandola reached Badrinath; from there, he walked around three miles and reached Mana, the last Indian village. Traders from Ladakh and Himachal Pradesh gathered in Mana with mountain goats before crossing the Himalayas to reach Tibet. Chandola decided to accompany a salesman who had 1,500 goats. Chandola saw first-hand how the Indo-Tibetan border trade was carried out in one of the world’s most inhospitable terrains. Travelling for two days on foot, the team reached the Mana Pass. On the Tibetan side, Chandola noticed that the terrain was friendlier, with flatter elevation and grassy surfaces. Two days after crossing the Mana Pass, he reached the Tholing monastery in the Tibetan county of Zanda. Here, Chandola parted ways with the traders and headed northwards along the Sutlej towards Tibet’s border with the Xinjiang province of China. He obtained a lhamik — permit — from a local headman. An unsuspecting Chandola ran into the Chinese army at a place called Gar Gunsha. The soldiers were making bricks and drying them in the sun. An Indian journalist was the last thing they expected to encounter. They could neither let him travel further nor send him back because they did not want the world to know what they were up to. They detained Chandola in a small, dilapidated monastery. A young journalist looking for his first big break in the real world of news could not have asked for more. However, the sight of machine-gun toting PLA soldiers keeping an eye on him was unnerving. The Chinese interrogated him for days. They wanted to be absolutely sure that he was not a spy. Once they were satisfied, they let Chandola stay with them in their camps. He writes that the PLA soldiers played volleyball and sang songs hailing Mao Zedong. Once their food supply dwindled, they hunted wild donkeys for meat and fished in the Sutlej. Over two months later, Chandola was allowed to return to India. When he went to his office, his editor told him that they had thought he was dead. Chandola was itching to go back to Tibet using another route. In 1954, he went back with the border traders through the Kingri-Bingri Pass. This time, he saw a larger presence of PLA soldiers, more military outposts, and groups of Chinese men in blue uniform carrying shovels, axes and other construction material. Chandola found this unusual. Upon his return to India, he wrote about it in a national newspaper. The London-based Observer Foreign News Service bought the exclusive rights of the story and sold it to major newspapers the world over. A beaming Chandola met Indira Gandhi and told her about the suspicious presence of the Chinese men in uniform in western Tibet. He writes that Indira told him that her father had read Chandola’s story on a flight and refuted the report saying that the journalist must have been imagining things. A couple of months later, the world discovered in awe that the PLA was halfway through laying the strategically significant 1,700-kilometre highway connecting Lhasa to Xinjiang through Western Tibet. The rest, as they say, is history.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-159
25-08-2020||Opinion||Heart, not head||Sometimes I think we, the so-called educated Indian middle class, are inherently absurd when it comes to our interactions with Westerners, especially Anglo-Americans. There is the indiscriminate admiration for American or British leaders, there is the fawning, there is the sucking up to, the cringe-makingly desperate ‘Like me, please like me! Do you like me? Really really like me?’ Whether it’s Manmohan Singh saying to George W. Bush ‘India loves you’ or Narendra Modi hugging a Barack Obama who clearly wants to stay un-hugged and then simpering up to the miasma of smugness that is Donald Trump, we and our leaders debase ourselves in a heartbeat, repeatedly pawning our dignity for clinking small change when we come face to face with political figures from Washington or London. An appendage subset of this is the pulsating, almost orgasmic, excitement we reach when we come across someone of Indian descent who has either achieved something or attained some political power in Britain or the United States of America. It doesn’t matter which end of the political spectrum the desi in question comes from, whether they are called Patel or Sunak, Nikki or Bobby, Varadkar or Bharara — we ‘love’ them simply because they have some trace of our shade of brown. The widespread exultation at Kamala Harris being selected as Joe Biden’s running mate is the most recent example of this long-running strand of foolishness. The video-clip of Harris making dosa has gone viral; the fact that she used the word, ‘chitti’, in her speech at the Democrat Convention has caused digital upheavals; there is fierce debate about whether she projects her Tam-Brahm side enough or privileges her Caribbean side; there are analyses of what her elevation to vice-president (and, oh my god, if something then happens to the septuagenarian Biden, to POTUS!) would mean for India, for us, for each and every one of the 1.3 billion of us. There are a couple of things we need to remember about desi people who rise in transatlantic politics. Firstly, in order to make her/his way in the political jungle, the desi or half-desi woman or man would have necessarily broken out of whichever ethnic ghetto into which she/he was born. Put differently, nowhere in the US is the South Asian vote large enough for desi politicians to put their ethnic origins or acculturation front and centre; they would have risen precisely because they’ve been able to make people forget that they are of Tamil, Punjabi, Marathi or Gujarati descent. Secondly, the UK and the US (and one daresay Ireland and Canada) are still racist enough so that the degree of difficulty for any politician of colour is quite a bit higher than for someone who is of Caucasian descent; meaning, if you’re seeing a desi politician in the news, they would have had to prove themselves to their political party with extra levels of both efficiency and ruthlessness, qualities which will continue to operate when they are in power. Ergo, when such a politician assumes a position of power, do not expect them to pack special tiffin-boxes for India; in fact, expect the opposite, that they will feel the need to demonstrate to their team-mates in cabinet or the Congress or wherever that they are not influenced in any way when negotiating with someone of the same ancestry from what is essentially, a large, poor, pesky and problematic country on the other side of the world. Kamala Harris is a middle-of-the-road Democrat, only very slightly to the left side of that middle. By all accounts, she was a tough lawyer before she entered politics. As a district attorney of one of the most radical and ‘lefty’ areas of the US, she was seen as a conservative but mostly fair law official. As is natural, all sorts of people at both ends of the political spectrum were unhappy with her and this continued when she rose to become attorney-general of California. Besides her formidable, if debated, work record across her time as DA and attorney-general, Harris made the political connections and alliances that allowed her to take the leap to Senator in 2017 and then to a contender for the Democrat nomination in 2019. To look broadly at her record, the conviction rate for violent crime went up under Harris’s watch; she has been tough on guns and gun-related crime; she has been tough on domestic violence and crimes of prejudice against trans and LGBT people; some would argue that she led the way to the decriminalization of marijuana-possession in California; she has consistently been against the death penalty and has fought off pressure from police and political seniors to allow executions; most importantly (yet unsurprisingly for California), she opened up a whole department to investigate and prosecute environmental crimes. The Republican attacks that have begun on Harris predictably bring up her relationship with Willie Brown, who was California assembly Speaker when she began her career as deputy-district attorney in 1990, and they accuse her of being the worst of all ogres, a ‘Bay Area lefty’. Harris has been robust in laughing off all smears of having ‘slept her way to the top’ and her record bears her out. Even as her stances on gun-control, marijuana, gay rights and the environment mark her out as anathema to Trump’s ‘MAGA’ supporters, she is far from being a lefty by the exacting standards of Berkeley — her home — paras and various large pockets on the west coast and in New England on the other side of the country; here there are many who see her as an ambitious, police-loving, jail-filling politico. The cynical assessment is that Biden needed to get in a woman, that too a person of colour, to counter-balance his own iffy record with its accusations of sexual assault and stamp of white male privilege. Among proper American lefties, there is also regret that some combination of Bernie Sanders and Elizabeth Warren has not been chosen to take the country towards the dawn of democratic socialism. We in India can take this record of nearly 30 years of outstanding service and make different kinds of khayali pulao as to what it would mean for us if the Biden-Harris ticket were to win the election and Harris were to become (presumably) an active vice-president, fully participating in the planning and execution of a Biden administration agenda. That pulao can become a biryani if we project ‘our Kamala’ as a future, properly elected, occupant of the Oval Office. These are all projections into the deep outer space of the yet-to-come, well outside the solar system of our immediate reality. What is crucial for India, for the subcontinent, and for the world is that the man currently squatting in the White House be forcefully evicted by the US elections in November.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-159
