26-08-2020||Opinion||Look deeper: The Pous Mela wall||Sir — Although Swapan Dasgupta’s views in the article, “Wall of contention” (Aug 20), are not entirely free of political colour, he has rightly underlined several plausible reasons why the Visva-Bharati administration could have been compelled to construct the wall around the university grounds. Dasgupta admits that “[i]n itself, the enclosure of an open space is undesirable and not in keeping with the ethos of [Rabindranath] Tagore’s Santiniketan.” But it is also true that the National Green Tribunal had ordered the construction of a barrier to demarcate the mela ground from the university premises and the neighbourhood, so that the Pous Mela celebrations could be managed better. Almost every year, the mela continues beyond the stipulated three days, leaving behind a “mountain of litter”, and the university must bear the brunt of this. As the name suggests, Visva-Bharati is internationally known as the ideal site for the interaction of all cultures. Santiniketan is meant to be an abode of peace. As such, the fact that the place has been witness to frequent disturbances in the last few years is unfortunate. The recent incident is bound to cast a pall of gloom beyond borders. Everyone must come together to restore the congenial atmosphere of this centre of learning. Sanjit Ghatak,South 24 Parganas Sir — Rabindranath Tagore believed that the Bengali elite should not turn its back on the villages. Unless there was a union between the town and the village, the rich and the poor, the folk and the mainstream, it would not be possible for a truly inclusive education system to evolve. The Pous Mela, organized by Visva-Bharati, is perhaps one of the best examples of this union. It not only provides employment in Birbhum, but also boosts tourism. During a year in which the pandemic has led to a number of people losing their sources of income, perhaps holding the mela with proper regulations in place would be all the more important. Swapan Dasgupta seems to imply that the Trinamul Congress is attempting to corrupt the ambience of Visva-Bharati, by trying to exert political control over the Central university. Surely it is not believable that the Centre is a politically neutral entity? Santiniketan has never been solely for ‘ashramites’. Many of the “businessmen” referred to in a disparaging tone in the article are also the products of Santiniketan. Every resident, whether a rickshaw puller or a badam seller, genuinely believes that the heritage of Santiniketan is their own. Chandana Dey,Santiniketan Sir — It is distressing that the recent disturbances in Visva-Bharati have reduced the hallowed place to a site for a political battle. Rarely have artists, writers, poets and other intellectuals of Bengal been vocal enough about the whittling away of the values of the ancient Tapovan system on which Rabindranath Tagore based Visva-Bharati. The Pous Mela, too, has suffered over the years. Unlike the usual trade and craft mela like the Delhi haat, the Pous Mela has deep spiritual roots. With the provision made by Debendranath Tagore, it is perhaps the only mela that still begins with ‘Brahma Upasana’ on the seventh of Pous. The open ground or mukt prangan of the mela embodies its essence of inclusivity. If the Kumbh Mela can be held safely for centuries, one does not see why the Pous Mela cannot be organized in a similar way, with the Centre and the state collaborating over the overall management. This is not a local issue but a cause close to the hearts of many, not only in Bengal but across the country. Sunipa Basu,Calcutta Sir — It is not surprising that the Visva-Bharati authorities are facing problems on account of the Pous Mela management. But more is expected of them than just settling for easy tactics such as the building of a wall, especially when it clearly opposes the vision on the basis of which the university was created. This is not to condone any act of vandalism in retaliation. We must all rise beyond such petty actions and retaliations, join hands in our efforts and ensure that the Pous Mela regains its former glory. Bhaskar Mukhopadhyay,Howrah  Laugh it off Sir — The decision of the mayor of Danbury, Connecticut, to rename the city’s sewage plant after the comedian, John Oliver, is hilarious. Oliver, as is his wont, cracked a joke about Danbury in one of his recent episodes. In retaliation, the mayor compared Oliver with the sewage plant, both of which, according to him, are full of waste. It is unlikely that the comedian will take offence at this humorous rebuttal. But as a resident of India, one wonders how many hours it would have taken for a politician to lodge a complaint against the comedian had such an incident occurred here.Arpita Chaklader,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-158
26-08-2020||Opinion||Gone Girl: Losing female foetuses||Decades of sustained struggle for empowering women in India may have resulted in the passage of important legislations to protect their rights. And yet, the laws by themselves have, to a large extent, failed to prevent the discrimination and violence that women and girls — including those that are yet to be born — face in the country. A study has revealed that India could lose, on average, more than 1,200 female foetuses a day over the next 10 years. This, in spite of the existence of the Pre-Conception and Pre-Natal Diagnostic Techniques (Prohibition Of Sex Selection) Act, under which sex determination and sex-selective abortions are banned. The scale of the crisis is immense. It is projected that in the period between 2017-2025, the number of female foetuses lost through sex-determined abortions would be 4,69,000, and then grow to 5,19,000 from 2026 to 2030. This would mean that around 6.8 million girls would not even be born. The implications are alarming. It is clear that deep-seated prejudice cannot be eradicated only by criminalizing pre-natal sex determination. More important is the indication that the problem may not entirely lie with the law itself, but with its implementation and, crucially, the conditions that make it easy for those with vested interests to work around the rules. For example, while the law makes it mandatory for all ultrasound facilities to be registered and for medical practitioners to maintain records of every scan done on pregnant women, the monitoring of such facilities is poor. Consequently, families that want sex-selective abortions — and members of the medical establishment who are willing to be complicit in a criminal act for profit — feel emboldened to make discreet arrangements: such procedures, researchers have found, are being carried out at home. While women often do not have a say in abortion-related decisions — the law recognizes this absence of choice — the same cannot be said for their kin. There is thus a concomitant crisis in morality, not just among the family but also within the medical community that is no longer willing to prioritize ethical prerogatives. As such, the bolstering of the law must be accompanied by targeted initiatives for a cultural transformation. This is especially important for traditionally laggard states such as Uttar Pradesh, which will account for the highest number of aborted female foetuses between 2017 and 2030. A number of factors — education, awareness, political will — must complement the law if millions of girls are to at least have a fighting chance at being born.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-158
26-08-2020||Opinion||On target: Bombay HC on Tablighi Jamaat||India has failed in its ancient principle of regarding the guest as deity when incarcerating 29 foreign nationals who had come to Delhi’s Nizamuddin Markaz for the Tablighi Jamaat in March. This was perhaps the kindest part of the Bombay High Court’s scathing judgment of a ‘political’ government’s action of finding ‘scapegoats’ for the pandemic, and imprisoning them for over two months with charges under the Indian Penal Code, the Foreigners Act, the Disaster Management Act and the Epidemic Diseases Act. The visitors, who had petitioned the court, were accused at the time of having spread Covid-19 by violating the direction against large gatherings, of having breached their travel conditions and of using opportunities for preaching their religion. Yet no progress has been made in the investigations since. Few things could be more damaging to India’s image. The court pointed out that the Tablighi reform movement has always had international visitors and they were free to travel within the country for religious programmes. It dismissed the charges of visa violation and of preaching, and said that the petitioners should not have been jailed. Religious idealism had led to incarceration under difficult conditions instead of help during the pandemic. Two other high courts, of Madras and Karnataka, have also concluded that the visitors should be let free, although their reasons are different. The Madras High Court termed the confinement unreasonable, unjust and unfair. The visitors told the Bombay High Court that they had entered India after testing negative for the infection and had been sheltered in mosques when they were stranded during the lockdown. Most pertinent to these times is the high court’s condemnation of the ‘big propaganda’ of the media and representatives of the State accusing the visitors of spreading Covid-19. The judgment deplored the discrimination that allows foreigners of other faiths to pass without scrutiny, and remarked that malice is inferable in this case. Referring to the importance of fraternity in the Constitution, the court emphasized that social and religious tolerance was a practical necessity to keep India united. Religion and modernity had been reconciled by hard work and respect for both secular and religious principles ensured that most could participate in the process of development. No message could be clearer. The Centre, though, may choose to miss it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-158
26-08-2020||Opinion||US-China cold war: A delicate matter of choice for India||Addressing the who’s who of American strategic thinking in an address in New York last September, the foreign minister, S. Jaishankar, described “multi-alignment” as the future of India’s relations with the world’s major powers. Where India’s historic stance of non-alignment came to represent equidistance from global powers, multi-alignment, Jaishankar explained, meant keeping “your relationships well-oiled with all the major power centers.” Yet, there was a context for Jaishankar’s comments — one that’s changing as fast as the spread of the worst pandemic in a century. According to Jaishankar — and that is, indeed, India’s formal position too — we’re in a multipolar world. But while that has largely been true since the end of the Cold War, 2020 is altering those equations just like it has shaken up every other part of our lives. In the first quarter of the year, the dollar share of bilateral trade between China and Russia fell below 50 per cent for the first time on record, pointing to a conscious move by the two nations to reduce their dependence on the American currency. Russia and China are increasingly coordinating their strategy on everything, from Iran and Syria to their approach to the United States of America. Meanwhile the US is doing what China has long been accused of: effectively building a ‘great firewall’ of its own. Its tightening restrictions on Huawei are aimed at trying to kill off the Chinese telecom giant. Donald Trump’s threat to ban TikTok, WeChat and other wildly popular Chinese apps is setting the stage for the creation of, effectively, two parallel internets. With the intensifying trade war between the US and China and American sanctions against Russia, we might well be headed toward the creation of two de facto trading blocs too. Countries and companies would in that scenario need to choose between the two sides — sanctions would bar those who trade with Russia, use Huawei or play Tencent games (the Chinese social media giant is also the world’s largest video game developer) from engaging with the US. If that shift towards two barely intersecting worlds reminds you of the Cold War, it’s because the parallels are real. And like the rest of the world, India will face increasing pressure to choose between a liberal but declining West and a rising but illiberal Eurasia led by China and Russia. The former sees India as a useful partner to counter China’s ambitions, and is willing to share cutting-edge technology and weaponry to assist New Delhi in emerging as a regional power. Yet while India and the US — and to a large extent Europe — agree on the need to balance China’s rise, they disagree on other elements of the India story. The West insists India’s trade barriers are still too restrictive and that New Delhi’s intellectual property regime doesn’t adequately protect innovation. And the US and the European Union will continue to keep India’s human rights record — whether in Kashmir or against minorities and Dalits in the heartland — as a ready strategic weapon to use as a bargaining chip when it suits them. Trump, let’s be clear, is an aberration that might pass as soon as January 2021. Russia has never questioned India on its human rights record, and remains the backbone of India’s military. But while still a major military power, Russia today lags behind the West when it comes to the most sophisticated weapon systems. What about China? Though it’s Pakistan’s BFF, it’s easy to see it would keep quiet on Kashmir if New Delhi and Beijing were on better terms and their soldiers weren’t bludgeoning each other to death with rocks and rods. It’s much harder, however, to imagine China sharing some of the cutting-edge technology that has made it a global leader in artificial intelligence, automation and 5G. Put simply, there are no easy answers to India’s dilemma. To be sure, we’re still some steps away from rigid, Cold War-like blocs. The Russian president, Vladimir Putin, has refused to call his partnership with China an alliance, and Moscow remains uncomfortable with the idea of playing a junior partner to anyone. The current situation is also fundamentally different from the Cold War because the nature and capabilities of China have changed, making even a working relationship with Beijing more complicated than ever before. On the other hand, current tensions between the US and Europe mean the West is far from the united force it was during the second half of the 20th century. If Trump returns to power, those fissures will widen. It’s also not a given that India must eventually choose between the West and the Russia-China axis. It has skilfully manoeuvred between major powers in the past. But to do that again, it must first recognize the reality of today. The multipolar world of the past 30 years is, once again, coalescing around two pillars. Ensuring that relationships with all major powers remain “well-oiled” — as Jaishankar put it — will need more grease than ever before.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-159
26-08-2020||Opinion||Feluda and Co.||Reflecting on “Feluchand” — Feluda to his legion of fans — in an introduction to a special edition of Sandesh dedicated to, arguably, Bengal’s most famous detective 25 years ago, Leela Majumdar made some pertinent observations in her inimitable style. There was the matronly jibe at Feluda’s addiction to smoking. Majumdar then went on to heap fulsome praise on his razor-sharp intelligence, fearlessness, indefatigability and his commitment to justice. Majumdar was as generous in her assessment of Feluda’s creator, taking note of the tightness of Satyajit Ray’s plots, the near-perfect description of the settings, near or far, as well as Ray’s matchless ability to make the line separating fact and fiction nebulous. The importance of Majumdar’s note, however, lies in what followed. She spots, unlike many of us, the surreal nature of Ray’s creation. Feluda, Majumdar argues, is a bit too perfect. His triumphs over his adversaries are nearly inevitable; he is omnipotent; he is peculiarly solitary — his parents are (conveniently?) dead, but the rest of his bloodline, she writes, remains markedly absent across his 35-odd adventures. Most significantly, Feluda is free of moral warts, discernibly immune to such — entirely human — frailties as pride or prejudice. Feluchand, in all probability, is that rare Bengali member of the tribe of metahumans. The search for more complex, conflicted heroes in Ray’s literary universe should lead the reader away from Feluda’s adventures towards his short stories, especially those that were published under the ‘baro (dozen)’ series. Ak Dojon Goppo (1970), Aro Ak Dojon (1976), Aro Baro (1981), Ebaro Baro (1984) and Ak er Peethe Dui (1988), each a collection of 12 short stories (including some of Felu’s adventures), unveiled a few characters the shadowy corners of whose minds, where moral turpitude exists in an uneasy truce with uprightness, should have made them far more memorable than the infallible Feluda or the equally righteous Professor Shonku. The following — not the detective or the scientist — are Ray’s Twilight Men. Bankubabu, a teacher in a provincial town, refuses to stand up to his bullies (“Bankubabur Bondhu”). When he finally has the courage for confrontation, he does so with some help from a kindly extraterrestrial. Yet, timid Banku — he is even bullied by his students — does not allow the daily indignities to corrode his dedication to teaching, his solitary source of joy. Banku’s conscious choice of vocation over retaliatory violence should not be underestimated. Then, there is Tripuracharan Mullick (“Dui Magician”). Mullick — he is a magician — is a purist at heart, steadfastly resisting the perks that accompany the commercialization of performance arts. But as the Market consumes Art, pushing orthodox artists like Mullick towards penury and  oblivion, the man of principle topples over into the abyss, trading his integrity for an all-too-fleeting moment of fame. The shadows cast by the Twilight Men get deeper as we turn the pages of Aro Ak Dojon. We meet Batikbabu — furtive, eccentric, the laughing stock of gloomy, rainy Darjeeling. He has psychic abilities that reveal to him the murky past of mundane, found objects: a button torn from the coat of a man felled, unexpectedly, by stroke; a solitary glove worn by a murdered man; a piece of eyeglass whose owner drowned in the sea. Ultimately, the interest — fixation — consumes this humble, unassuming man, forcing him to draw blood. But the person who weighs on our judgment and conscience the most would have to be Ratanbabu. Devoured by loneliness, yet ever conscious of the magnetic pull of solitude, Ratan’s life is a delicate balance between his craving and simultaneous revulsion for companionship. Yet, he does — momentarily — find what we think he seeks. In nondescript Sini, a few miles from Tatanagar, Ratan meets Monilal — his doppelgänger. But their uncanny similarities lead Ratan into the twilight zone: as the two men stand on a trembling overbridge, mesmerized by the distant rumble of an approaching train, Ratan chooses a forked path to liberation, finally embracing the solitariness he had dreaded all his life. Do their grievous lapses — crimes — and minor triumphs make the Twilight Men lesser mortals than, say, Pradosh Chandra Mitter? There is, in fact, a case to argue that they are as, if not more, formidable than our beloved detective. This is because Feluda’s foes are, in a sense, extraneous to his moral essence. Ray, unfortunately, spares Feluda conflicts with the demons within, choosing to protect the detective with an adamantine shield of integrity. But Ratanbabu and his peers have not been the beneficiaries of such kindness. Pulled at the seams of the soul by conflicting, competing emotions, by tides moral and amoral, by forces great and mysterious, they, like flesh-and-blood men and women, bob up and down in murky waters, rising to the surface on occasions, often to sink in the end. Yet, they continue waging wars within and without. Their capitulation is not just honourable. It makes them disarmingly human. The colossal imprint of Feluda on the Bengali imagination and cultural discourse is not without merit. But the one hundredth birth anniversary of Satyajit Ray — the centenary celebrations began in May this year — could be an ideal occasion for the Bengali intelligentsia to explore the peculiar and problematic unimpeachability of the fictive hero (heroines are nearly absent in these works, at least). What compelled one of the sharpest students of human character and its greyness to make Feluda decidedly anodyne on the moral plane? Should not the contemporary cultural discourse on Ray’s rich literary legacy be receptive to not only Feluda’s luminosity but also the residual darkness in the Twilight Men? Such a public reappraisal may put Tripuracharan Mullick — his spectre apparently haunts night trains — finally at rest.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-159
