27-08-2020||Opinion||Urgent need: Congress leadership turmoil||Sir — The nature of discussions at the much-awaited meeting of the Congress working committee last Monday that took place against the backdrop of an unusual letter of discontent — 23 senior leaders had written to the interim Congress chief, Sonia Gandhi, pointing to an internal churn and an urgent need for reconstruction — further proved that the party is far from resolving its leadership crisis (“After fight, hunt for leader”, Aug 25). Although it was finally decided that a session of the All India Congress Committee would be called within the next six months to elect a new party president, the CWC also chose to debate the intention of the letter writers and its timing. The Congress, which is facing an unprecedented internal crisis, must not alienate its well-wishers. It should also hasten the process of selecting a new party chief if it hopes to salvage its position in contemporary Indian politics. The Congress needs to restructure itself at the earliest and, once again, prove its commitment to the people of the nation. It is only then that the party can hope to counter the political and ideological onslaught of the majoritarian Bharatiya Janata Party. D.V.G. Sankararao,Nellimarla, Andhra Pradesh Sir — The rumblings of discontent within the Congress must be looked at in conjunction with the overall political situation of the country. One must understand that the turmoil within the Congress is part of a larger political problem that has engulfed the country. The popularity of the Grand Old Party has waned in recent years with the BJP dominating Indian politics. A rightward shift in voting patterns is not unique to India. Several countries around the world are facing a crisis of democracy. While the Gandhi family has been steadfast in opposing the assault of Hindutva on the secular fabric of the nation, it is time to assess its capability to guide the party in this trying situation. It is thus not surprising that over two dozen Congress leaders chose to write a letter to Sonia Gandhi and express their grievances. However, the leak of the private letter to the press is unfortunate. This might further embolden the BJP to take advantage of the problems within the party. A change in leadership or a systemic overhaul of the Congress might not be enough at this point to fight the battle against the forces of Hindutva. G. David Milton,Maruthancode, Tamil Nadu Sir — It seems that the Grand Old Party has now become a sinking ship. The lack of sincere effort on the part of senior Congress leaders to revive the party after two successive defeats at the general elections is cause for concern. Not only that, but several state governments, too, seem to have slipped out of their hands. Many had hoped that there would be an organizational reshuffling within the Congress but, so far, this has not come to fruition. The Congress should pay heed to the grievances of its party members. It is time for a massive overhaul in the structure of the party and its leadership. The Congress needs to be better prepared for the next general elections scheduled to be held in 2024. Sravana Ramachandran,Chennai Sir — When we heard that 23 senior leaders — this included former Union cabinet ministers, sitting members of parliament and former chief ministers — had written to the interim party chief, Sonia Gandhi, asking for sweeping organizational reforms within the Congress, it had seemed that the time for change had finally arrived. Unfortunately, however, it is reported that the actions of the dissenting leaders were questioned. It was shocking to learn that the signatories to the letter were put on the spot instead of having the issues they raised discussed. A strong Opposition is crucial for the functioning of a healthy democracy. The Congress leadership in Parliament, unfortunately, has been unable to provide that for a while. In the meantime, strong regional parties seem to be taking up the mantle of the Opposition in their bid to keep the spirit of democracy alive. Bal Govind,Noida Historic step Sir — In a welcome move, the British Museum has removed a bust of its founding father, Sir Hans Sloane, in an effort to confront its own links to colonialism. Sloane — his artefacts became the starting point of the museum — partly funded his collection from the output of enslaved labour on Jamaican sugar plantations. While it is encouraging that the demands by civil society organizations for reparations are finally being heard, it is unfortunate that it took so long. Other institutions must follow suit and rectify the historical wrongs that continue to plague formerly colonized communities. Paramita Sarkar, Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-158
27-08-2020||Opinion||Family matters: Congress leadership storm||Differences, the interim president of the Congress concluded after a stormy meeting of its working committee, are natural in a large family. But the Congress’s problems seem to stem from the reservations that some members of the parivar have against the First Family. The simmering rancour was brought out in the open when 23 senior Congress functionaries wrote a letter — it got leaked mysteriously —  to Sonia Gandhi, seeking to redress, what these leaders believed, are festering problems. Among them were the question of party presidentship that remains unresolved, the Congress’s failure to politically exploit the gaffes of the Narendra Modi regime and — quite significantly — a push for collective decision-making. Some of the issues raised by the ‘dissenters’ merit concern. Yet, the other argument is that this may well be a barely-camouflaged attempt on the part of the Old Guard to retain its turf. Such conjecture is not unwarranted. The Congress has a long history of clashes between the Gandhis and entrenched interests. There is, however, another point that need not be missed. Notwithstanding their expertise in several vocations, many of these senior leaders lack a solid political base. They are entirely dependent on the party and its organization to remain politically relevant. Their demand for democratizing decision-making is, thus, a bit rich. Such a demand would perhaps suit those with a formidable following among the people. Not many among the Old Guard can lay claim on such public endorsement. Ms Gandhi’s gracious response may have averted a crisis — at least for now. But the Congress’s revival remains unclear. Schisms and ambition — the malaise of putting self above the party — have weakened the Congress’s roots not only among the cadre but also the people. Its diminishing political footprint bears evidence of this corrosion. Perhaps the cure lies in a harmonious coalescing of leaders, young and old, around its most acceptable face — a Gandhi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-158
27-08-2020||Opinion||Long shadow: Post-moratorium debt restructuring||The moratorium on loans to businesses and retail borrowers in financial stress after the outbreak of the pandemic draws to a close by the end of the month. With still no indication of when the crisis will blow over, the policymakers at the Reserve Bank of India have thrown open a new window for debt resolution that ostensibly gives banks the sole discretion to pick borrowers who will be granted a longer runway to pay back their loans. The broad idea that underpins the proposed debt restructuring programme is to ensure that firms, with an otherwise good track record under the existing management, do not get pitchforked into a crisis that could unnecessarily jeopardize the recovery process. The governor, Shaktikanta Das, has said that banks can start the process of sifting through their databases to identify the firms and individuals who will qualify under the new dispensation. The policymakers had formed a committee under the eminent banker, K.V. Kamath, to suggest a set of financial parameters that should be factored into resolution plans. Banks have been asked to adopt a board resolution relating to the new debt recast programme and start implementing it without waiting for the Kamath Committee report or the central bank notification, which is expected by September 6. But niggling doubts remain. Public sector banks, which, empirical evidence shows, usually have the largest exposures to stressed borrowers, have never really been completely free from interference while taking commercial decisions. The process does provide for an inter-creditor agreement among lenders before signing off on a resolution plan. But the fidelity of collective decision-making can be subverted. In order to invoke a resolution plan, only 75 per cent of the lenders by value of the outstanding credit and representing just 60 per cent of the lending institutions by number need to agree. Cherry picking of borrowers —  they will get the benefit of an extended two-year runway to resolution with the added advantage of a debt moratorium of up to 12 months — could undermine the integrity of the process with the enormous risk of a pile up of bad loans in the end. Until the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code was adopted, the banks had a variety of debt resolution mechanisms in place. Many of them did not work but there were no real infirmities in the procedures. The problem was with the enforcement of the guiding principles. The system will work only if there is no government interference in banking decisions. This harks back to the wisdom of the good governance practices suggested by the P.J. Nayak Committee in its May 2014 report. The panel had suggested that the government should cease to issue any instructions to banks under the guise of development objectives. Perhaps it is time to introduce that major structural reform first to witness real success on the ground.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-158
27-08-2020||Opinion||The environment in a new light||On March 23, 2020, the Centre issued the draft Environment Impact Assessment notification 2020 and invited anyone interested to make objections or suggestions within 60 days. The time period was later extended until August 11 on court orders. The draft notification, allegedly diluting several EIA provisions, generated considerable interest and reaction. At one point, the Delhi Police cited the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act to block websites campaigning against the draft EIA notification. Public uproar led the Delhi Police to issue a puerile clarification that the UAPA had been cited inadvertently. Was the earlier EIA notification of 2006 serving us well that any dilution would result in environmental crises? The State of Environment Report India 2009 states that 47 per cent of the land is degraded and air quality is an issue of concern. India leads the world in premature deaths due to outdoor and indoor air pollution. On water, the report had this to say: “Erosion in the watersheds due to rapid development and poor land management practices is increasing siltation and changing stream hydraulics. Groundwater reserves are becoming more and more depleted even as surface water sources become too polluted for human use.” Further, it has been estimated that at least 10 per cent of the country’s recorded wild flora and fauna are on the threatened list and many are on the verge of extinction. We are already in an environmental crisis. Instead of tweaking EIA norms, perhaps we need to revisit and reset our relationship with the environment. In popular parlance, the environment, to some, is simply ‘nature’ or wilderness while others include human elements such as agricultural and pastoral landscapes or even urban areas. That the ‘environment’ exists in some kind of relation to humans underlies the various perceptions. However, when I think of the environment, two images come to my mind; one is by the Voyager 1 space probe when it was six billion kilometres away from earth; and the other by the photographer, Jonathan Clark. Voyager 1 captured a speck of dust in a sunbeam, while Clark photographed an open-air crematorium by the Ganges. Viewed from a distance of six billion kilometres, the dark vastness of space, the sunbeam, and the speck of dust comprise our environment where we all live; every human being has lived out his/her life within it. A closer look at the environment reveals three different worlds interacting among and within themselves; the physical world with its objects and processes, the living world full of living things and life processes, and the built world comprising our beliefs, the intangible and tangible things we build, and our actions guided by our beliefs and the things we create. Clark’s photograph captures all of these in a single frame; the physical objects and processes in the form of a flowing river sanctified by a belief system; humans, dead and alive, representing the living world and life processes, and the built world of created objects and a faith. This is not how environment is usually perceived. If environment education across levels persists with the perception of the environment comprising the atmosphere, the hydrosphere, the lithosphere and the biosphere and the processes and the interactions therein, then no amount of environmental regulation will get us out of the environmental crisis humanity is faced with. Higher-level environment education is broadly categorized as environmental science and environmental management. The term, ‘environmental science’, refers to a grouping of scientific disciplines that are all concerned with the physical, chemical and biological characteristics of the surroundings in which organisms live, the two main sub-groups being the life sciences and the earth sciences. Environmental management is concerned with the understanding of the structure and function of the earth system, monitoring environmental changes, predicting future changes. It attempts to maximize human benefit and minimize environmental degradation. It is about decision-making in relation to the use of natural resources, degradation of habitats, and the modification of ecosystems but not the belief systems that make humans act as they do. If environmental education still does not take into account the built world consisting of our beliefs, the intangible and tangible things we build, and our actions, particularly when human action is causing planetary-scale changes, how are we to extricate ourselves from the multiple crises? Environment education must instil that environment is where we all live and all that we do to improve our well-being within that abode. Environmental recklessness has cost implications for everyone. Environment education has to create a new cadre of citizens and professionals who view the environment holistically, recognizing that human actions and inactions have consequences, as in insurance schemes. If an insured individual behaves recklessly leading to loss and/or damage only to her/him, the cost of insurance goes up not only for the reckless individual but also for every other insured individual under the same scheme.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-158
27-08-2020||Opinion||Time to marry||In late June, a 15-year-old girl from East Midnapore in West Bengal alerted a non-governmental organization about her impending marriage. It had been arranged by her father who had lost his income because of the lockdown imposed to slow the spread of the Covid-19 infection. She was saved in the nick of time, but organizations working to prevent minor marriages now have their hands full. Their experience suggests that for every foiled marriage, more go unreported. The Calcutta High Court noted the “alarming rise” in child marriages in the state during the pandemic. Sudden impoverishment because of the lockdown combined with the ravages wrought by Amphan has rendered a huge segment of West Bengal’s population deeply insecure, particularly in villages. In this atmosphere of desperate need, men who offer to marry young girls without dowry or even offer large sums of money to the family — the high court suggested that some of the marriages were disguised child trafficking — are too tempting to refuse. Although Amphan added to Bengal’s difficulties, it is not there alone that child marriages have risen. In April, the relevant authorities in Karnataka reported having stopped 118 such marriages, Telangana reported 204 cases in three months, Andhra Pradesh stopped 165 between March 25 and May 11, and by the end of June, the Centre reported having intervened in 5,584 minor marriages. The list could go on, with the reminder that these are just the known numbers. It is not as though child marriages occur only when unexpected drops in income and insecurities of livelihood drive parents to marry off their daughters for gain or relief or in the hope that the girl will find a better life. The updated version of the law against the marriage of women before they are 18 and men before they are 21, the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act, 2006, has not succeeded in wiping out the practice, even with penalties for the adults concerned. Although monitoring by local administrations is now sharper in many districts, and much has been done, too, in terms of raising awareness — girls themselves sometimes complain to NGOs and local authorities when untimely marriages threaten them or their friends — child brides and, in some regions, child grooms have not disappeared. There is often a peculiar disconnect between laws and the practicalities of their implementation, most evident in the case of laws meant for the protection and progress of women. For example, researchers predict that the failure of the ban on prenatal sex disclosure to stop female foeticide will lead to a daily loss of 1,200 female foetuses for the next 10 years. This cannot be put down to economic strain alone — girls mean dowry, not income — but an attitude shared by all levels of society. Dowry has not been eradicated either, trapping women in a kind of cyclical devaluation. Lawmaking cannot be sterilized of social attitudes. So it is not merely a question of panchayats looking the other way when children are married off, but oddities in the laws also that continue to cause problems. Child marriage may be forbidden, but once the marriage is over, it cannot be annulled unless one of the partners or a relative asks for annulment. Being illegal does not make them void. Allied laws, such as those regarding age of consent, intercourse with minor wives, or the interpretations of the laws by different courts, apart from personal laws regarding age of marriage, together seem quite bewildering. What such confusing legislations represent is a casual sense of duty done and dusted, not a dynamic engagement with society’s desire to keep women in their place as useful vessels subject to oppressive social mores and religious rituals. Yet the 2006 law had seen some success. The National Family Health Survey of 2015-16 showed a steady decrease in minor marriage in all states except Himachal Pradesh and Manipur, an advance that has now been endangered by the pandemic. The same survey indicated that the better off a girl’s family, the later she was likely to marry. More important, it established a link between education and age of marriage, showing that a girl who had 12 years of schooling would marry later. The Right to Education Act, 2009, contributed to the decrease in minor marriage by making schooling free and compulsory till 14 years, just as midday meals play their part in keeping youngsters in school. In a society as unequal as India’s, the role of education in delaying marriage is of greatest importance in view of the prime minister’s announcement that the government is considering the upward revision of women’s age of marriage to 21. This would, presumably, be another blow to child marriage and also create gender parity. As a progressive measure, such rumination is welcome, especially as the government’s discussions would depend on a task force’s findings on maternal and infant mortality rates, age of motherhood and so on. The prime minister expects that being more educated at 21 than at 18, girls would be empowered to make marital and reproductive choices. That is an excellent outlook, but the question is, how is that education to be achieved? In 2018, the ministry of human resource development reported that 62.1 million children were out of school in spite of the RTE. Since for better reproductive health and a non-coercive married life, women need educated partners, this figure seems ominous. The Annual Status of Education Report, 2017 found that although the gender disparity in enrolment figures at 14 has declined, at 18, when the RTE no longer operates, 32 per cent of girls are not enrolled, compared to 28 per cent boys. In early 2018, the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights reported that 39.4 per cent of girls between 15 and 18 are not in school or college. More, the NFHS data on the education of women between 15 and 49 show that 42 per cent of girls from scheduled tribes and 33 per cent from scheduled castes have received no schooling. Completing more than 12 years of education is limited to 10 per cent of scheduled tribes and 15 per cent of scheduled caste women. The importance of education and the presence of schools that surround a girl with teachers and companions is best exemplified in the way girls take their help when a marriage is being forced on them. With schools closed during the pandemic, they have become vulnerable to family pressure. For girls out of school in normal times, household chores, care of siblings, paid domestic work call them away, just as distant schools and the lack of sanitary facilities discourage continued attendance. Early marriage is as often the result as the cause of dropping out. Fixing the legal age of marriage for women in a country as socio-economically unequal as India cannot be a simple matter. It has to be accompanied by investment in educational institutions and training facilities which would be accessible to, and practicable for, girls from every corner of the country. Women can study up to 18 only if it is possible for them, and given the aptitude of Indian girls, it would solve many of the present social and economic problems. Punishing families for the early marriage of their daughters can hardly be a deterrent in the face of economic need, fears for sexually vulnerable girls out of school and persistent prejudice against inter-caste and inter-community marriages. A law, however welcome, cannot in itself be the display of a progressive mindset. Neither is it a magic wand. It will work only if the government is willing to pay attention to the foundations first.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-158
