28-08-2020||Opinion||Many Flavours: Parochial imposition of Hindi||One of the most crucial aspects about the study of language is, perhaps, the ability to read between the lines. This skill would come in handy while deciphering the recent comments made by the Union education minister, Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank, on the country’s new National Education Policy. While providing assurance that all of the 22 languages listed as official under the Constitution would be given importance by the NEP, the minister also managed to quietly slip in a telling remark. India’s linguistic identity in the world, Mr Pokhriyal believes, has been shaped by Hindi. This interjection, in spite of the loftier assertion about the new educational model giving equal importance to multiple languages, is not surprising: it is in keeping with the Narendra Modi-led government’s alleged zeal to impose the ‘Hindi, Hindu, Hindustan’ principle on a nation known across the world for its many diversities, including those of language. This problematic vision seems to be contagious: it has been reported that a secretary in the ministry of Ayush had instructed participants of a virtual training session to leave if they are not conversant in Hindi. Such sentiments, along with changes in policy — a parliamentary panel’s recommendation to make Hindi a mandatory subject in Kendriya Vidyalayas and other schools affiliated to the Central Board of Secondary Education had received presidential assent — reveal that in spite of the claim of the NEP being geared towards preserving linguistic diversity in education, the institutional push towards imposing Hindi would endure. Perhaps the Bharatiya Janata Party is not really aware of public sentiments in this matter. Andhra Pradesh has become the first state in India to offer English as the medium of education in government schools. The growing preference for English-medium schools has also been borne out by the latest all-India survey by the National Statistical Office. The BJP’s policy of cultural homogeneity — the preference for Hindi is one manifestation — runs the risk of coming undone on account of a new, aspirational India’s pragmatic attitude towards English as the lingua franca. The pursuit of linguistic hegemony runs other risks. Language politics can have deleterious consequences. The fierce resistance to the imposition of Hindi in the southern states is only one example of the pain it can inflict. The desire to bring an essentially pluralistic polity under an authoritarian — majoritarian? — umbrella — the principle of ‘one language, one India’ — is, ironically, antithetical to the cause of Indian unity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-157
28-08-2020||Opinion||Common vision: Opposition meet||Timing is the key in politics. Sadly, members of India’s Opposition did not, for so long, believe in this wisdom. Seven chief ministers of states ruled by parties in the Opposition may have now met and deliberated on a number of critical issues, but there is a convincing case to argue that this mobilization — an important gesture of unity among a fragmented constituency — has come quite a bit late in the day. The principal duty of the Opposition in a democracy is to hold the government of the day accountable to the people. India’s present Opposition has not been able to discharge its primary responsibility effectively. This explains the commanding position that Narendra Modi and his government occupy in spite of their spectacular failures on a number of fronts. India’s economy has nosedived; the deceleration in growth was evident even before the onset of the pandemic. The Covid-19 burden, too, is getting heavier — the nation has the third-highest number of cases in the world. China has gobbled up Indian territory. These facts are testaments to the failures in governance. Yet, the lapses committed by the Centre have not been politically exploited by the Bharatiya Janata Party’s opponents. This can be attributed to the inertia in the Opposition camp. Uddhav Thackeray, the chief minister of Maharashtra and one of the participants in the meeting, made a telling point about the Opposition meeting only during crises. But what is heartening is the Opposition’s — albeit belated — acknowledgement of the need to take the battle to Mr Modi in a united manner. The list of complaints against the Centre is rather long. It includes, among other concerns, the Centre’s parsimonious attitude towards the disbursal of legitimate dues of the goods and services tax to the states, the BJP’s propensity to topple elected governments formed by Opposition parties, the alleged misuse of investigative agencies and, equally worryingly, the agenda to alter the character of the republic. At the heart of these disputes lies the unprecedented strain on the federal edifice. The demise of federalism at the hands of populist authoritarianism would, effectively, signify the death of democracy. The Opposition, thus, has its task cut out to save India’s democratic charter and itself. But it must remember to speak unitedly, meet frequently, and get its timing right.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-157
28-08-2020||Opinion|| A virulent language: Reinforcing casteism||The human vocabulary is constantly expanding with new words and with old words being used in new ways. In the Covid-19 era, phrases like ‘social distancing’, ‘handwashing’, ‘be kind’, ‘be humble’ and so on have become bywords for practices to contain the virus. However, a study of prejudice and bigotry shows that these terms can represent discrimination too. The call to ‘wash hands’ assumes everyone has equal access to water. In India, an estimated 163 million people do not have access to clean water. One of the major causes of this is a myriad forms of ‘social distancing’ put in place by racism and casteism. Historically, one reason for communities being kept at the fringes was to limit their access to common resources; it ensured their subservience. This attitude continues in various permutations today. In modern India, the caste system remains deeply entrenched. Although a crime, caste prejudice plays out daily in a variety of ways. In rural India, ancient tradition and modern-day enforcement prevent lower castes from accessing water from community sources. In urban areas, socialization of bigotry translates into official apathy. A statistical compendium, published by the ministry of housing and urban poverty alleviation, found that in urban areas the population of scheduled castes in slums was higher than of those not living in slums. It correlates to the fact that inhabitants of slums have limited access to water, sanitation and sewerage. Similar issues are faced by the Black people in the United States of America. A report from the Thurgood Marshall Institute at the NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund titled, Water/Colour: A Study of Race and the Water Affordability Crisis in America’s Cities, found “a clear connection between racial residential segregation and Black access to water systems.” A consequence of rising water supply prices for communities of colour is the loss of their homes. Religious infusions give discrimination credibility and proselytize its praxis. The belief in the divine origins of the caste system and the concepts of rebirth and karma justified prejudices and ensured victims accepted their situation without a murmur. Slave traders and owners selectively quoted the Bible to validate their inhuman practices. Later, the prejudices from these narrow interpretations were fortified with illegitimate science and the economics of exploitation. It transubstantiated into laws that aided the transmission of racism through the community. Over time these were reinforced, socialized and institutionalized, so much so that their vestiges continue to exist even after the abolishment and the criminalization of their practice. Paradoxically, acts of kindness and humility — integral to socio-religious obligation — never hindered bigotry. Thus, such edicts as ‘be kind’ and ‘be humble’ could not cross the boundaries of race and caste. Generosity, kindness and other forms of altruism were limited to the tangible and directed towards saving the self. Temples in India were, and still are, recipients of large donations. The social walls of the caste system prevented the lower castes from receiving the charity of the upper castes. Humility, viewed as a character trait, enhanced one’s standing amongst peers. Hence, it was restricted to those of higher or similar castes. However, humility translating into respectful treatment of lower castes could lead to lowering of one’s social standing. The Christian belief that ‘god made man in his own image’ did not extend to slaves and people of colour. Displays of respect, chivalry, kindness were contained within White society. Attempts to protect this way of life led to Christian fanaticism and white nationalism. Their followers were further emboldened by segregationist laws. By the time these laws were abolished, racism had been institutionalized. Society had not only been inoculated to the horrors of racism but had been afflicted by unconscious biases. Today, Donald Trump has re-invigorated racists. In India, the ‘community transmission’ of discrimination was incremental, growing from inside out. In Indian Cultures as Heritage, the historian, Romila Thapar, suggests that the division of society into castes was an outcome of early families setting up an organizational structure. She also indicates that skin colour and difference of language led to some communities being kept at bay. Such segregations would have perforce influenced interactions. Later, the attribution of these units’ creation to the divine and birth becoming the arbiter of inclusion in a unit made this compartmentalization inviolate. Development of religious rituals, the introduction of social behaviour and customs, and the use of violence ensured normalization and adherence. The ‘herd immunity’ achieved through centuries of practise of, and indoctrination to, casteism makes it par for the course today. Covid-19 reiterates the fact that deeply embedded prejudices impede the delivery of healthcare to minorities. If the virus provided an opportunity for a dialogue about the many cascading consequences of racism and bigotry it was lost to discussing the calamitous decisions of national leaders bumbling through varied virus containment strategies. The terms that define actions to protect us from the virus should serve as a reminder of the need to prevent bigotry.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-158
28-08-2020||Opinion||Learning cooperation||In his magnificent and deeply moving essay, “What the Great Pandemic Novels Teach Us”, published in The New York Times exactly a month after Lockdown 1.0 was imposed in India, Orhan Pamuk ends his analysis with these words: “For a better world to emerge after this pandemic, we must embrace and nourish the feelings of humility and solidarity engendered by the current moment.” Such humility and solidarity lay at the heart of what both Rabindranath Tagore and Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi saw as the best way forward, especially when it came to education. “Basic education”, nai talim or buniyadi siksha — most fully articulated by Gandhi at the Wardha Education Conference of 1937 — envisioned school as a space where young people would be taught (in addition to the three Rs, social studies, music, painting, and so on) the values and virtues of cooperative work, whether through growing vegetables, spinning cotton, or other productive manual activities suited to local conditions. The teachers of such a school would work alongside their wards, fostering a spirit of kinship and fellow-feeling among individuals from disparate backgrounds, be these social, economic, cultural, or otherwise. The income generated from such activities would pay for the upkeep of the school, and help in paying the salaries of teachers and other staff. Critics of this scheme of education pointed to the potentially deleterious effects of making young children perform manual labour, and the danger of such income-generating activities overturning the essential pedagogic function of a school. These were valid criticisms and probably paid a significant role when the Gandhian scheme of basic education was quietly buried after the implementation of the National Policy on Education of 1968. Yet, despite its drawbacks, Gandhi’s insistence that education is a cooperative endeavour, in which both students and teachers must participate, still resonates. Unlike Gandhi, Tagore did not see education, especially school education, as needing to equip students with income-earning skills but he, too, stressed the need for education to combine the dry theory of the classroom with the rich lived experience of engaging with the real world outside a school’s walls. Not for nothing were classes in his school held, whenever possible, in the open air. Like Gandhiji, Rabindranath saw education as a cooperative enterprise, one where students and teachers alike would be engaged in the joyful pursuit of understanding and knowledge, leading, if the endeavour was successful, to something akin to wisdom. Rabindranath had much greater experience than the Mahatma when it came to matters educational, having started a school in rural Bengal in 1901, where he was, in his own words, “fortunate in having almost all the naughty boys of the neighbourhood and even from different parts of the country… only the most intractable boys came so that I had an interesting gathering of just those children who are most preached against in the Sunday-school books.” In the same lecture, delivered in Japan in 1924, Rabindranath goes on say how “I became the playmate of my students and shared their life completely” and how he tried “to let them realise that though we have our difference of age, yet, like wayfarers, we are travelling the same path together — old and young, we are working for the same goal.” In his lectures, talks with students and teachers, essays, and compositions in both prose and verse, Rabindranath kept harping on the vital importance of “the cooperative principle” in every sphere of human activity, especially education. Sadly, however, what passes for education in our country today is predicated less on cooperation and far more on what the iconoclastic Brazilian educator and philosopher, Paulo Freire, famously described as the “banking concept” of education, where “Instead of communicating, the teacher issues communiqués and makes deposits which the students patiently receive, memorize, and repeat… in which the scope of action allowed to students extends only as far as receiving, filing, and storing the deposits… [where] knowledge is a gift bestowed by those who consider themselves knowledgeable upon those whom they consider to know nothing... [where] the teacher presents himself to his students as their necessary opposite; by considering their ignorance absolute, he justifies his own existence.” A few lines later, Friere makes the same point made by Tagore, and Gandhi, decades earlier, “Education must begin with the solution of the teacher-student contradiction, by reconciling the poles of the contradiction so that both are simultaneously teachers and students.” We humans are intensely social animals, and cooperation is as much a part of our essential selves as competition. Any student can tell you that cooperation does exist, even in the most hidebound and reactionary educational establishment, but this cooperation is typically confined within the two broad groups of students and teachers: students cooperate with students, and teachers with teachers (though, I suspect, less so) — cooperation across the student-teacher divide, between those who teach and those who are taught, is rarely to be found, even though this is what Rabindranath, Gandhiji, and Friere saw as a consummation devoutly to be wished. This is where the unprecedented situation created by Covid-19 offers us an opportunity to challenge old ways of being and doing when it comes to the realm of education. Deprived of access to libraries, books, laboratories, equipment, and all the paraphernalia of the pedagogic process, and dependent on electronic means to carry out academic activities and transactions, teachers and students are discovering that perhaps the only way to continue academic activity is through cooperative action — with not just students coming to each others’ aid but by joining hands with their teachers to keep educational institutions functioning in this strangely isolating time. This may not always be the case in schools, but for institutions of higher education this is a daily lived reality. Speaking from personal experience, students have helped to locate and download texts, set up virtual meetings, collected and collated questions to be put to the teacher (me), and assisted in a hundred other ways to keep our interaction alive. Teachers, in turn, have perforce become more democratic, more consultative, more interactive, when it comes to such transactions. We all miss the give-and-take of the classroom or lecture theatre, everyone is irritated by the vagaries of internet connectivity, and the tricks played on us at the most inopportune moments by our magic electronic devices; yet all of us are now aware that we are travelling the same path, trying to overcome the same obstacles, striving towards the same goal. Hierarchies are being challenged, with students contributing as much, if not more, to the conducting of classes, locating online resources, distribution of study material, the list goes on. Cooperation, not competition; a journey undertaken together, not separately; a partnership of students and teachers predicated on mutual trust, not casual suspicion; humility and solidarity instead of arrogance and divisiveness. Of course this is not true for every student or every teacher; of course old habits sometimes resurface, but things seem to be changing, to be moving in the direction envisaged by the great humanitarian thinkers whose words have been quoted earlier. Will this last once things start limping back to something resembling ‘normal’? I have no idea, but, as always, it is up to us to make that choice. The author is professor of Comparative Literature, Jadavpur University, and has been working as a volunteer for a rural development NGO for the last 30 years||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-158
