29-08-2020||Opinion||Break the rule: Sonu Sood to the rescue, again||Sir — The actor, Sonu Sood, has once again warmed hearts by offering accommodation as well as jobs in garment factories to 20,000 migrant workers in Noida. Sood had earlier been in the limelight for helping migrant workers find transportation home at a time when the Centre and some state governments were doing precious little on that front. It is heartening to see celebrities use their resources for the greater good instead of only indulging themselves. Unfortunately, such celebrities are the exception to the rule. Aftab Khan,Lucknow Dark hour Sir — Hunger and poverty are at the root of the bulk of India’s most pressing problems, all of which have been exacerbated many times over by the Covid-19 pandemic. It was heartbreaking to read about the five-year-old girl in the Nagla Vidhichand village in Agra’s Baroli Ahir block who died of starvation after her family had to go without food for a month. Her 40-year-old mother had been looking for a job to no avail in order to be able to feed her family. The young girl finally passed away after having been sick for a few days towards the end. One shudders to think about the grief of the parents over having to lose their child. It is no secret that the Centre as well as a number of state governments have made a mess of handling the coronavirus crisis, including the effect it has had on the livelihoods of vast swathes of the country’s population. Migrant workers across the country lost their jobs and had no food or transportation to get back home to their towns and villages; many of them died of hunger and exhaustion — and also of the disease — while trying to trudge their way back home on foot. How can a democratically elected government take the plight of citizens so lightly during a global contagion? Why has citizens’ access to food not been made a top priority by the Centre at this time? It is clearly in denial about the realities on the ground; the Union railways minister, Piyush Goyal, had recently said that the government had ensured that no Indian starved during the pandemic. One wonders what he would have to say in the case of the young girl from Agra. Amrita Basu,Calcutta Sir — It is a matter of concern that a vast majority of the Indian population still lives in poverty. India is one of the poorest countries in the world, and women and children, who form the most vulnerable sections of society, are invariably the worst affected. A tragedy unfolded in Agra recently when a five-year-old girl from an impoverished family in the Nagla Vidhichand village died after her family had to go without food for a month. While poverty and the resultant hunger have indeed been the country’s biggest challenges, the coronavirus pandemic has only deepened the crisis and worsened the economic inequality in India. This has blighted our democracy even in this postcolonial era. Policy interventions for the short-term, such as food provisions, are not going to be enough to solve the problem. For example, poor hygiene conditions vastly aggravate diseases such as cholera, typhoid and dysentery. The basic indices of daily life for all citizens need to be improved.N.R. Salam,Jammu Sir — The family of the little girl who died in Agra deserves justice. The government must be taken to task for ordinary people having to go through such suffering. Shilpa Kapur,Delhi  Big help Sir — It was heartening to hear that the artist, Banksy, has reportedly funded a yacht to rescue refugees attempting to reach Europe from North Africa. While the anonymous British artist is usually known for his subversive street art, he has of late caught people’s attention for his humanitarian gestures. He recently created a portrait depicting a health worker at the forefront of the coronavirus crisis as a superhero; now, he is helping people escape persecution and suffering by facilitating their relocation. It is often said that art has the power to change the world. It is even better when artists, alongside creating relevant work, also contribute directly to helping others.Iqra Ahmad,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-157
29-08-2020||Opinion||Out, damned spot: Gen Z and the 'full stop'||It is a brave new world that never wants to stop. Its denizens speed through the day with short text messages and WhatsApp effusions on the go, liberally scattering exclamation marks and ellipses as one message runs into the next, producing fresh codes of communication that linguists must decipher. And linguists have found that the one thing that hits the sensitive nerve of millennials and the Gen Z is the full stop. It may be just a dot in English — some languages have a vertical or slanted line or more dots — but the load it can carry is amazing. Someone who uses a full stop in a social media message must be angry, weird, mean or aggressive, even — horrors — passive-aggressive. In vain do old fogies of 40 and above say, pleadingly, anxiously, or in bewilderment, that it is a part of grammar, a punctuation mark: a sentence is not complete without it. It is not a secretive little emoji conveying the sender’s negative feelings towards the recipient; it is just saying that the message has ended. But for the young in the age of instant communication and lightning change endings cannot be allowed to threaten finality. Everything is ever moving on. An ellipse images this perfectly, or a question mark that softens the blow of a statement by imitating the upward lilt of a friendly suggestion. A full stop is like a repulse, deadening and cold. So the generation gap now nestles in a full stop. Not that linguists of the baby boomer generation are all of the same opinion. They agree about the vanishing little dot, but some of them feel it is no big deal. Headlines never had full stops, did they? Or itemized lists? The short social media message signals its end by being sent; why burden it with a full stop that makes it bottom heavy? It makes the tone enigmatic, hinting at something left unsaid that can frighten the recipient with dark forebodings. Just as the calling bell is unnecessarily alarming for the millennial and her younger siblings. There are apps to alert them to deliveries at the door and the warm exclamatory SMS to announce the friend on the threshold. Life is peacefully lived via the screen. But some linguists and quite a number of teachers are less enthusiastic about the new code. A full stop is indispensable as a punctuation mark, they feel, and constant messaging on social media is gradually eroding the awareness of what formal writing demands. Dropping full stops in formal communication will render it unintelligible, and dropping other punctuation marks, such as the closing quotation marks, will simply make it incorrect. But such concerns may only be relevant as long as pre-millennials are still around. Language can and will change. And if full stops inflict such suffering on the delicate young, can the intense agonies of decoding a semicolon be imagined?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-157
29-08-2020||Opinion||Art for good: BLM in NBA and Hollywood||Like in most cities in the United States of America, protests filled the streets of Los Angeles; specifically, the famous Hollywood Boulevard. An estimated 40,000 people marched to protest against racism. Now, a permanent Black Lives Matter graffiti will be on display across the entire Walk of Fame block, with installations beginning since August 24. The original, temporary graffiti was completed with the help of hundreds of volunteers walking down on Hollywood Boulevard on June 13 to paint the words “All Black Lives Matter” in the colours of the transgender, non-binary and pride flags. The graffiti will sit on Hollywood Boulevard between Orange Drive and Highland Avenue. It is a project in partnership with Black LGBTQ+ Activists for Change, StreetsLA and the Los Angeles Department of Transportation. The installation includes a new street sign in honour of the march. The LA city council member, Mitch O’Farrell, told reporters that it is a fitting place, as it is the same location of LA’s first official gay pride parade, which took place 50 years ago. In addition to Hollywood, the NBA also kicked off the season with an acknowledgement of the Black Lives Matter movement. Every NBA player kneeled during the national anthem. The league also had the BLM slogan prominently printed on the court itself in prominence. The player’s jerseys also featured messages instead of their names, such as ‘I Can’t Breathe’, ‘Say Their Names’, ‘How Many More’ and ‘Enough’. Great buzz August 15 was not only India’s Independence Day, but also National Honey Bee Day in the US. People celebrate this day by catching up on their bee knowledge and playing their part in helping conserve the bee population. National Honey Bee Day was started 11 years ago by passionate beekeepers, and was officially established by the US secretary of agriculture to raise awareness about the benefits of honey bees to the environment and life on earth, and to promote the value of honey. The National Honey Board and Project APIs m. joined forces last year to establish the Bee Health Collective website. It is a platform to gather and share content and credible information about honey bee health, scientific research, the beekeeping industry and how these relate to agriculture, resource management and the food supply. The NHB was appointed by the US secretary of agriculture. Project APIs m. is a Utah-based non-profit that funds research on honey bee health and forage programmes. The DC-based Earth Day Network also updated its Earth Challenge 2020 on this day in a push to help preserve honey bees. Its app now uses artificial intelligence to identify bugs and other creatures that people photograph. It offers opportunities each time to sign a petition, support legislation or just find out more about what citizen scientists capture on their smartphone cameras. The work is being done in partnership with the US state department and the Wilson Center, a non-partisan policy forum chartered by Congress in 1968.Empty plates As colleges open up for fall, universities are scrambling to make sure they cover all their bases — enforcement of social distancing, wearing masks and also making sure international students are quarantining on arrival. One aspect of the typical freshman life that has been almost comically overlooked by New York University is its meal plan. Hundreds of TikTok videos went viral, illustrating the dismal state of the meals given to students who are bound to their dorm rooms. According to NYU’s website, students who have travelled from certain states where coronavirus cases are still spiking are required to enter quarantine before attending classes in person. The school promised to provide three daily meals and a snack. The videos showed that the university was unprepared to provide adequate meals to its 2,600 quarantined students. The food site, Eater, and the videos described how the school sent “prepackaged salads, granola bars, pieces of fruit, and bags of potato chips”. Students also kept track of “meals that arrived hours late, meals that never arrived, of eating breakfast for dinner, and eating leftover dinner for breakfast.” NYU later acknowledged its failure and promised to issue each student a $100 gift card. The New York Times also reported the University of Georgia experiencing similar food scarcity because of a lack of preparation. It is not uncommon for students, especially at universities like NYU, with high fees, to be experiencing food insecurity.Distant expression Every year around this time, about 80,000 people gather near Gerlach, Nevada to celebrate the ‘Burning Man’, a large-scale event described by its organizers as a “crucible of creativity” that is “dedicated to community, art, self-expression and self-reliance”. This year, Burning Man is being planned as a virtual event. While the main event is eight days long, the set-up crew takes a month before and after to transform the area into an event site and then restore it to its original state; ‘leaving no trace’ behind is one of the 10 principles of Burning Man culture. The virtual Burning Man will feature theme camps, art projects, live performances; a virtual temple; and a version of the most anticipated big burn, which involves setting fire to a 40-foot wooden structure of a man outlined in neon and stuffed with fireworks. Programmers, designers and game developers are known to attend it. The Google co-founders, Larry Page and Sergey Brin, and the Amazon founder, Jeff Bezos, have attended in the past. Footnote Lori Loughlin — ‘Aunt Beckie’ on Full House — and her husband have been sentenced to a few months in prison after a judge ruled them guilty of having paid $5,00,000 to secure their daughters’ admission to the University of Southern California by presenting them as fake athletic recruits. But they are not the first famous, wealthy parents to be found guilty for using their privilege to bribe or lie to get their children into college. Felicity Huffman has already served time over a college admissions scandal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-157
29-08-2020||Opinion||Aural pleasure||When the pandemic began gathering pace in April, there were fears that this would be the first summer in England since the end of the Second World War in which no cricket would be played. Fortunately, it has turned out otherwise. Conditions improved enough for there to be six Test matches, three against the West Indies and three against Pakistan, played in oddly empty stadiums but telecast live around the world. With millions of other cricket fans, I partook of an intense spell of binge-watching in this time of panic and suffering, seeking refuge and consolation in my favourite sport. Although in the end, England won both series comfortably, the matches were not without competitive interest. And the summer ended, cricketing-wise, on the happiest of notes, with the great Jimmy Anderson getting his six hundredth Test wicket, the first new-ball bowler to join a club hitherto reserved for spinners alone. Among the joys of following Test cricket in England is that one can do so without guilt. I am a morning person anyway, so can get in several hours of focused reading or writing before the cricket begins at 3:30 pm. The forty-minute lunch break can be used for work as well, and so too the sometimes extended breaks for rain that pepper a match in England. Unlike in India, where Test cricket clashes directly with my hours of work, or in Australia, where it clashes with my hours of sleep as well as of work, here I can combine professional obligation and the pursuit of passion with painless ease. I now watch Tests in England on the telly, but when I was young I had to hear rather than see them ‘live’. I belong to the ever diminishing number of Indian fans whose cricketing education was shaped and nurtured by the radio. The first series I have aural memories of was played in the summer of 1966, when I was eight. The West Indies comfortably beat England 3-1, powered along by the batting, bowling, and fielding of their captain, the greatest cricketer who ever lived, Garfield St. Aubrun Sobers. I have followed cricket in England every summer since, via radio or on the television. The only exception was 1986, a year I spent in the United States of America with no access to radio or TV, and thus missed listening to or viewing Kapil’s Devils hand England a comprehensive two-nil defeat in a three-Test series. It is always nice watching Test cricket in England, and even nicer when India are not playing. For then one can be strictly non-partisan, watching the cricket for purely aesthetic reasons, devoid of the poisonous feelings of national pride. That there are no Indian commentators adds to the pleasure even more. It may be that Hindi or Tamil or Marathi commentators are exciting to listen to, but those Indians working in the English language lack subtlety and discrimination, adding little value to what one is seeing anyway. They talk too much and talk over the action, all the while making it shamelessly obvious that all they want from a Test match is that their side should win. My favourite commentators on television come from three different countries. They are (in alphabetical order) Michael Atherton of England, Michael Holding of the West Indies, and Shane Warne of Australia. They were all present in the box this summer, Atherton and Holding from the beginning, with Warne joining halfway. Atherton was an outstanding Test cricketer, Holding even better, and Warne the best of all. Yet Atherton never speaks of his own playing days, while Holding does so rarely. His endearingly open character and staggering feats with the cricket ball mean that Warne is occasionally self-referential, but not in a crude or boastful way. This trio beautifully complement one another. They come from different countries and did different things on the cricket field. So Atherton can speak most knowledgeably about batting, Holding about fast bowling, and Warne about spin bowling. Holding made his Test debut in 1975; Warne was playing in the Indian Premier League as late as 2011, so they collectively bring to the table almost four decades of playing experience. Holding and Warne both played in world-beating sides, and can thus speak with a well merited (if usually understated) pride about their time at the top. Atherton’s England never dominated the game when he played; fortunately, this lack of collective achievement suits the self-deprecatory character of the man himself. Their personalities are also quite dissimilar, with Warne’s exuberance a contrast both to Holding’s quiet intensity and Atherton’s laconic matter-of-factness. And yet, for all their differences in character and cultural background, these three commentators share two qualities; a profound understanding of the game’s history and techniques, and the ability (as well as desire) to transcend national partisanship. When I shared this list of three personal favourites with my friend and fellow cricket nut, Rajdeep Sardesai, he said that, on his part, he would make it a quartet by adding Nasser Hussain. I like Hussain too, for his blunt and forthright manner. Besides, like Atherton, he is absolutely without a trace of parochialism, whether racial or national or religious or any other. Such was not always the case with English cricket commentators. Consider Brian Johnston, a fixture in BBC’s Test Match Special when I was growing up, and the most popular radio commentator with British audiences themselves. I have vivid memories of hearing ‘Johnners’ during the 1976 West Indies tour of England, when a short ball from Wayne Daniel or Andy Roberts would be described disparagingly as “a nasty one, a really nasty one”, while one from Bob Willis or Chris Old was spoken admiringly of as “a splendid bouncer”. The impression sought to be conveyed was that the vicious West Indians bounced in order to hurt and injure the batsman, whereas the sporting Englishmen did so merely to get him out. The previous year, when Javed Miandad toured England as part of the Pakistani squad for the inaugural World Cup, Johnston only referred to him as “Mum and I” (as distinct from Me-and-Dad), a joke which he (and many of his home listeners) found uproariously funny, but even back then grated on my teenage ears for its crudity and its ethnocentrism. India’s captain in the World Cup that year was S. Venkataraghavan, whom this Englishman thought fit to call “Rent-A-Caravan”, chuckling to himself as he did, and doubtless prompting even louder chuckles in his British listeners. While not as crudely chauvinist as Johnston, the other members of the Test Match Special commentary team in the 1970s were Little Englanders as well. The one exception was John Arlott, a man of culture and cosmopolitanism and a lifelong opponent of racism on and off the field. Atherton and Hussain are both a decade younger than me. I don’t know whether they heard Johnston when they were growing up or what they thought of him. Fortunately, their own character and life experience have oriented them towards the legacy of Arlott rather than that of Johnston. That one has married a West Indian and that the other’s father is a native of Madras has surely shaped how they think in this regard. Meanwhile British society itself has become far more heterogeneous and accommodative of cultural difference than it once was. I much enjoyed these past weeks of cricket watching, which I did not (given the pandemic) expect to experience. The cricket notwithstanding, the highlight of the commentary this summer was moral and political rather than sporting. The Black Lives Matter movement prompted a white anchor to ask Michael Holding about his own experiences with racial discrimination, which he recounted with both passion and eloquence. The videos of his moving testimonies will last forever, longer even than the replays of Anderson’s six hundredth Test wicket. Postscript: In a rain-break during one of the Tests, I went to YouTube and chanced upon a fabulous one-hour conversation between Michael Atherton and Shane Warne. In this conversation, Atherton comfortably held his own, which he so rarely did in their playing days, when he had the bat and Warne had the ball. ramachandraguha@yahoo.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-157
