30-08-2020||Opinion||Goddunnit||The Centre cannot help the states with the shortfall in Goods and Services Tax (GST) revenues. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said, soon after the 41st meeting of the GST Council, that an act of God “might even result in a contraction of economy”. Now, if a layman were to hear that speech, a god-fearing citizen with little knowledge of legal terms would you blame him for thinking the FM was shifting blame on to God? Would you blame him for having assumed this government is on good terms with the Maker? Good enough to make good promises of achchhe din come what may? The God-talk unravelled like this. In 2014, while campaigning for the general elections Narendra Modi said, “I think God has chosen me to do this work.” While moving a parliamentary resolution in 2016, the then Union parliamentary affairs minister M. Venkaiah Naidu described Prime Minister Modi as “God’s gift to India”. Naidu, who has since become Vice-President of India, is not the one to lead this chorus though. That would be Shivraj Singh Chouhan, the current chief minister of Madhya Pradesh. “He is God's divine gift to India. He will make India vishwa guru by 2022,” he once said while addressing a convention of the Bhartiya Janata Yuva Morcha. In 2017, Modi himself said in his concluding address at a two-day BJP national executive meeting, “Serving the poor is serving God.” He also said that he neither coveted power, nor heaven nor second life, only wanted to end people's sufferings. By 2018, there was a perceptible shift in narrative. BJP spokesperson Avadhut Wagh tweeted, “PM Narendra Modiji is the 11th Avatar of Lord Vishnu.” In 2019, following weeks of intense political campaigning, Modi paid a visit to Uttarakhand's Kedarnath Temple. Photographs of him swaddled in saffron robes, meditating, were omnipresent. Later he said, “I never seek anything from God.” End-May, after the 2019 election results were out, Chouhan said, “He is blessed with God-like powers.” Uttarakhand BJP party workers came up with a Modi aarti. BJP MLA Ganesh Joshi spoke of plans to build a temple with Modi’s idol. In June, BJP president JP Nadda said in a reprimand to Rahul Gandhi, “Narendra Modi is not just the king of nar (humans) but also sur (gods).” And in August, Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta said of his boss-in-chief, “Insaan ke roop mein bhagwan hai.” Meaning, Modi is God in the guise of a mere mortal. But the FM said all this economic misery, present and impending, this inability to help the states all trace back to an act of God? Of course this is all legalese, but would you blame the layman if he got the wrong idea?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-156
30-08-2020||Opinion||Oh My Burdens! Laden, Laden||Not Laden. Not that Laden. Not the one with a capital L. Loaded. Not Laden. The Laden that first came to your mind or wherever is bin Laden. But no. But yes. Something did tell me you’d read it as that: Laden. Such is the air we breathe. Everywhere, all across the length and breadth and depth of things: Laden. And what springs from it. Suffused by Laden and related lads and dens. In a manner of speaking. This language, English, I mean.But English is not my mother tongue, much less my mother’s tongue. My mother spoke English, but she never made it sound like it was my mother tongue. She never made it sound like it was her tongue. It was a tongue she used. Conditions applied. English is the tongue of my employ, besides many and several other things, but it is not my mother tongue, although I must admit I probably use the English tongue more than other tongues. Or so it would seem to me and to sundry others who must have a language with me. Good for the English, they left behind a tongue that we can use, abuse, misuse, as suits us. My mother had many tongues other than English, which as I said, she spoke in a manner of speaking. I mean she spoke in many tongues. A loving tongue, an annoying tongue. A soothing tongue, a harsh tongue. A lilting tongue, a tongue that was straight as a lesson. A silver tongue, an iron tongue. She also spoke in Motherly. That is the most elusive tongue, the Motherly tongue will never be my mother tongue for no amount or no lack of trying or wishing. I can give it a shot. When I become a mother. But I suspect nature has not provided me the required equipment. Such is nature. Unequal. But let that be. Everything is unequal. Even democracy. Chhoro, let it be. The burdens of not having. The burdens of knowing that there are nations where mothers are English and English is the mother tongue. Imagine. Not having to make the effort to speak in English. I try, but it’s a burden. One among many I am laden with, what’s one to do? Aur bhi gham hain zamaane main. Like why do I not have peacocks? What a burden it is not to have them, and have them dance for me. It is our national bird, and I am a nationalist. How may I prove I am a nationalist unless I have peacocks? But I don’t have peacocks. Therefore it can be deduced I am not a nationalist. And not being a nationalist is a dangerous thing. Nor a garden? Nor hands to manicure them? Nor pearls, that I could feed those peacocks. Someone, please organise them, go on; and I promise I will get the camera crews, even if I have to pay for them, and all those different sets of carelessly matching and carefully mismatching sets of apparel; they’re going cheap. Online. They bring the merchandise home. Cash on delivery. Contactless, except they touch the cash you touch, and you touch the goods they’ve already touched, god knows who. But I digress. And so what’s new? Digression is duty. If you won’t digress you will go one way. And going just that one way or this one way is not what a democracy should be. It has become the case for some that we are no longer a democracy, but that can’t be true, or is it? Propaganda. The surest sign we are a democracy is that for all that is wrong with the way we are being ruled is that we blame it all on those that rule us no more. They are still there, adversaries, another group, a rival group. Other groups and rival groups are only allowed in a democracy. Except they don’t have peacocks. They are plainly told: no mor. Am I making sense? Of course not. But that’s the clever trick I’ve learnt on you to play I’ll hand you a heavy brick And say, now turn it into clay.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-156
30-08-2020||Opinion||The prize for luring Jyotiraditya and a probe into a 'damaging' document||Earlier this week, the Bharatiya Janata Party fielded its spokesperson, Syed Zafar Islam, as a Rajya Sabha candidate from Uttar Pradesh. Islam, whose election is certain, would be the fourth Muslim face of the saffron party in the upper House. The BJP has no Muslim face in the Lok Sabha despite having a brute majority. Islam, however, was not selected to refute charges that the BJP discriminates against Muslims. Islam, who has been a prominent defender of the party on prime-time television debates since he joined the BJP in 2014, is said to have been rewarded for his role in luring away the Congress leader, Jyotiraditya Scindia, paving the way for the fall of the Kamal Nath government in Madhya Pradesh. A former banker, Islam is known to have tapped into Scindia’s frustration with the Congress leadership. Even if the BJP does not care about the votes of Muslims, it needs people like Islam to defend its Hindutva agenda. The major elevation for the new face has put the focus on the plight of Syed Shahnawaz Hussain, who has spent all his political life in the saffron party. Once the celebrated young Muslim face of the BJP, who got a prominent place in the Atal Bihari Vajpayee government, Hussain has been pushed to the margins under the current regime. Hussain, too, comes on TV regularly to speak aggressively in favour of the party and the government, but has so far failed to please the bosses. The now infamous group of 23 Congress leaders who wrote a letter to Sonia Gandhi asking for drastic changes to check the drift in the party after two debilitating defeats has been attacked and abused from all sides. If the Lakhimpur Kheri district unit in Uttar Pradesh passed a resolution against Jitin Prasada, a signatory to the letter, a minister from Maharashtra, Sunil Kedar, issued threats that he would not allow these leaders to roam freely within the state. But the dissenting leaders believe such rants are natural in any party in times of crisis. What anguished them deeply was the conduct of two veterans — AK Antony and Ambika Soni — as they launched an unabashed attack on the letter writers at the Congress Working Committee meeting. One senior leader from the group said, “Antony contemptuously said — ‘cruel, cruel’ — and accused us of betrayal when Sonia was unwell. All of us felt hurt by his attitude. We have been colleagues for decades and there should be some understanding between us, at least on what our commitments to the party are.” Another leader said, “We wanted to write another letter pointing out what Antony and Ambika’s credentials are. Antony pulled down the Congress government in Kerala when Indira Gandhi was being prosecuted and campaigned against her in the election. Ambika gave filthy abuses to Indiraji, which we can’t even mention as they are unprintable. But we avoided it as it will create more bitterness. And they are calling us traitors? We have not uttered a word against Indiraji or Rajivji or even Soniaji in our long careers. But one day we will point out that some leaders got undue respect in the party, without any worth, without any contribution to the party.” Many pointed out that senior leaders like Manmohan Singh and P Chidambaram were not happy with the letter episode either but they showed the maturity of not questioning their intentions. The anti-corruption activist, Anna Hazare, refused an invitation from Adesh Gupta, the BJP Delhi unit chief, to join an agitation against alleged corruption by the ruling Aam Aadmi Party. The AAP leader and Delhi chief minister, Arvind Kejriwal, had parted ways with Hazare in 2012 over the formation of a party after a movement against corruption of which the elderly Maharashtrian leader had become the mascot. Since then, Hazare’s statements have been seen by many as tacit support for the BJP. In his reply to Gupta, however, Hazare tried to rid himself of the taint. He wrote, “What could be more unfortunate than leaders of a party, which has youth cadres in big number and claims to have highest number of members in the world, urging an 83-year-old fakir (monk) like Anna Hazare who resides in a temple’s 10X12 feet room and has no asset and power, to join in its protest... In 2014, your party showed dreams of a ‘corruption-free’ India and came to power, but peoples’ life has not improved [sic].” The defence ministry’s media wing is said to have ordered an inquiry into the alleged lapses which resulted in the uploading of an official document on the ministry’s website earlier this month, acknowledging China’s “transgression” into eastern Ladakh. Sources said the internal probe was launched to ascertain whether the move was deliberate or a “human error”. The ministry quietly removed the document from the website the day after as it triggered a controversy, leaving the top military brass red-faced. It was the first government document to admit to Chinese intrusion across the Line of Actual Control in early May, which snowballed into a clash in the Galwan Valley on June 15, leading to the death of 20 Indian soldiers. It also contradicted the assertion of the prime minister, Narendra Modi, on June 19 that no one had entered Indian territory or captured any Indian post. Recently, Tipu Sultan came to haunt the BJP in Karnataka. Just when everyone was focused on Covid-19, came a torpedo from AH Vishwanath, a former Janata Dal (Secular) state president who defected to the BJP last year, and was rewarded with a legislative council seat. “Tipu is a son of the soil”, stated Vishwanath, urging students to read everyone from Tipu to Gandhi. Confused about whether to ignore his words or risk an internal issue by chiding him, the party decided to distance itself from Vishwanath’s comments. It is no secret that the Karnataka state Congress president, DK Shivakumar, has high ambitions. But to become chief minister, he is allegedly trying astrological solutions. On the advice of his personal astrologer, Shivakumar is said to have painted his house white, and is in the process of repainting it and ‘vastu-correcting’ his office to clear all obstructions in the path to the chief minister’s chair. The joke in party circles is that he does not have to change his attire since they are all snow white.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-156
30-08-2020||Opinion||Zooming in on Covidiots and doomscrolling||Now is different than before. How long will now last? Is now here to stay? Till Puja? Or Diwali? Or Christmas and beyond? Did we think now would be like this? A world in which we would have to learn a whole new range of skill sets. A whole new way of living. An unfamiliar now. That’s taught us new ways to do things. New ways to work. New ways to communicate. New ways to even grieve. New techniques to master. New words to learn. How many of these seven terms were you familiar with before March 2020? 1. N95 mask: N95 face masks are used to protect the wearer from airborne particles. The ‘N’ stands for ‘not resistant to oil’ and the mask is used for oil-free atmospheres. It has a high filtration efficiency of 95 per cent or more. On a casual stroll down Park Street two days in a row, earlier this week, here is what anecdotal evidence suggested: 65 per cent of people were wearing masks properly, about 25 per cent were wearing masks the wrong way, and 10 per cent were not even wearing masks. So, let’s all mask up. 2. Zoom: There are a few instances where the brand name comes to define the brand category. Today Google is synonymous with searching online, Xerox is more commonly used than the actual word, which is photocopy, and Velcro has come to mean any adhering or fastening product. Zoom, a video conferencing application, is the latest brand to become a verb. From classroom teaching to presentations, job interviews to birthday parties, it’s all happening over a zoom call. 3. Covidiot: Know someone who does not wear a mask in public? Who hoards food during the lockdown? Who does not maintain six feet distance in public? That’s the description of a covidiot  _ someone who goes against public health and safety advice amid the pandemic. 4. Migrant workers: I’ve always preferred to call them guest workers. They were given a raw deal when the Prime Minister called the 21-day lockdown at four-hour notice. Remember the tragic Aurangabad incident, earlier this year, that saw a goods train mow down 16 guest workers? They, like millions of others on highways, were walking to their villages and had collapsed on the railway tracks — too exhausted to hear the train coming. Visuals like these, of millions making the painful and horrific journey back to their homes thousands of kilometres away, have been the most haunting images of the COVID-19 pandemic in India. Many of us in the cities took their existence for granted. This crisis has woken us up to their importance and vulnerabilities. (So proud of how the migrant workers were handled in my home state.) In the early days of the pandemic, I had the pleasure of speaking with economist Chinmay Tumbe, the author of ‘India Moving: A History of Migration’. His historical account of migration from, to and within India is an important read for anyone interested in understanding our country’s present demographic layout. 5. Social or physical distancing: In public health, social distancing means keeping at least 6 feet distance between yourself and others, to avoid the spread of the coronavirus. Many prefer using the phrase ‘physical distancing’. WHO and leading public health experts feel that ‘social distancing’ implies a sense of disconnection from friends and family. They instead use the phrase ‘physical distancing’ since the pandemic calls only for physical isolation, not social. 6. Infodemic: The COVID-19 virus has led not only to a pandemic but also to an infodemic – the spread of an excessive amount of information which is mostly incorrect. From fake cures like Bhabhiji papad to the ‘hold-your –breath-for-10-seconds challenge’, “WhatsApp university” floods the social media with misinformation about the virus. 7. Doomscrolling: This word, included by publishing house Merriam-Webster in their dictionary, refers to the tendency to continue to surf or scroll through bad news, even though the said news is saddening, disheartening, or depressing. These are just seven of the many terms we have encountered in the new now. We were living our lives on a treadmill that never stopped. Till now came along and asked each one of us to pause. To think. To reflect.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-157
30-08-2020||Opinion||Growing rift: govt and its banker||The policymakers on Mint Street are starting to feel the heat as the Narendra Modi government starts to ratchet up pressure on the Reserve Bank of India to bail it out of every crisis that it stumbles into. The finance minister, Nirmala Sitharaman, dropped a bombshell when she asked the states to borrow up to Rs 2.35 trillion from a special window that the RBI would open to help them recover compensatory dues under the goods and services tax regime because of poor tax collections in a Covid-wracked business environment. The announcement is as much a shock for the central bank as it is for the states as there was no prior consultation with either. This is just another instance of how the Centre has tried to browbeat the banking regulator to do its bidding — and then sort out the resultant mess. It is even more ironic that this suggestion should emanate from Raisina Hill less than a week after the central bank flagged in its latest annual report that consolidation of government debt would be the key area in its agenda for 2020-21. The RBI is nominally referred to as the banker to the government, but that is only one of the many roles it plays. Mr Modi’s government has tended to treat the central bank, which is the oldest regulator in the country and can justifiably lay claim on a long history of independent action, like a handmaiden. In May, the Centre raised its gross borrowings target to Rs 12 trillion from the budgeted level of Rs 7.8 trillion, an increase of 53.8 per cent, with no sign of a concomitant increase in spending on the under-funded stimulus package. The states have seen their outstanding liabilities to the banking system swell to Rs 33.93 trillion at the end of June 30, which represents a 39.6 per cent increase in their borrowings over the past three years, leaving them with no fiscal headroom to take on more debt. The Centre has unilaterally offered to raise their borrowing limit by another 0.5 per cent of their gross state domestic product after raising it to 5 per cent in May from 3 per cent earlier. The new borrowing window for states will tantamount to RBI’s monetization of states’ debt, which is impermissible under the current regulations. The central bank’s balance sheet has grown by 30 per cent to Rs 53.34 trillion largely because the surplus transfer to the Centre this year shrank to Rs 571.28 billion from Rs 1.76 trillion. But that is no reason to penalize the RBI by asking it to spend its carefully husbanded reserves on state government debt when it can use the cushion to deal with other Covid-related contingent risks. It is time for the RBI to push back hard: it can no longer be forced to assume responsibility for igniting growth by cutting interest rates, capping runaway inflation, bankrolling cash-starved states and funnelling funds to dodgy borrowers while the Centre pretends to be in control like a busy policeman minding a logjam.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-157
30-08-2020||Opinion||Handmaidens’ tale||A CWC meeting was called last week in response to a letter signed by Congress grandees asking for more pro-active party leadership in place of the ad hoc arrangement where Sonia Gandhi officiated as its acting president. When the meeting ended with the status quo intact, the impotence of the CWC was widely mocked. The derision stemmed from a misunderstanding. Journalists assume that CWC expands into ‘Congress Working Committee’. It doesn’t. Sometimes in the history of organizations, initials replace the original name. No one today would speak of WIPRO as the ‘Western India Palm Refined Oil Limited’, which is what it used to be called in the days of Azim Premji’s father. So why do journalists insist on using the CWC’s obsolete expansion just because that was the name it went by in the days of Rahul Gandhi’s great-grandfather? It should be obvious to a child that this CWC has no connection with the party once known as the Congress, does no work, and is not a committee. The CWC is a séance. Its principal function is channelling the spirits of Rahul Gandhi’s dead ancestors. Call, Wake and Channel: that’s the CWC’s current brief. Like any select séance, only true believers are allowed to attend: complete credulity is the price of visitation. Inter-state bandwidth between the living and the dead being what it is, results aren’t guaranteed. Gossip has it that in one meeting, a garbled summoning of Kamala Nehru raised Kamaraj instead. A torrent of Tamil followed which P. Chidambaram refused to interpret; Kamaraj’s views on the current state of party organization were too trenchant to translate. The evolution of the CWC from a Congress party organ into a Gandhi family mouth organ has an interesting secret history. Till Rajiv Gandhi’s time, the Nehru-Gandhi family used the CWC in an organizational way. Motilal begat Jawaharlal who begat Indira who begat Rajiv and the CWC served as the party’s cabinet. But after Rajiv’s passing, the family stopped producing election-winning heirs which meant that the aura that sustained the dynasty needed oracular augmentation. It was at this point that the CWC took on its new function. Family members became resident oracles through whom the ancestral spirits spoke their wisdom and supplied their revelations. Ventriloquizing for the gods was a strenuous business that needed the unquestioning faith of committed handmaidens; this the members of the CWC supplied unstintingly. The handmaidens’ hissy fit (the plaintive leaked letter) didn’t happen because the CWC’s members had lost faith in the oracular power of the Gandhi dynasty. On the contrary, the letter was positively Sicilian in its assurances that the Family would always be integral to the Party. No, these handmaidens were outraged that they were being asked to accept oracular guidance from a functionary instead of the Family. After the Rout of ‘19, the Son had stopped channelling the gods and the Mother, as Caretaker Priestess, hadn’t been up to the rigours of the job. The CWC met irregularly, oblations were neglected, and the oracle didn’t speak. Instead of Insights Derived from Eminent Ancestors — the only ideas the Party considered legitimate — the members of the CWC were subjected to the instructions of a party functionary, the current General Secretary (Organization). Prostrating themselves before the Family Oracle came naturally to the members of the CWC but abasing themselves before an apparatchik was intolerable. So they wrote to Sonia Gandhi, imploring her to grant them the right to take their orders from the Family and the Family alone, to save them the humiliation of doing the bidding of creatures like themselves, and to summon the family’s blessed ancestors more regularly because the People were deserting the Congress. When the CWC meeting ended, Sonia Gandhi was still the interim president. She would remain in the position for another six months till a permanent oracle was elected by acclamation. The newspapers reported that the Family had rejigged its parliamentary hierarchy to punish the authors of the letter. Manish Tewari, the Lok Sabha MP from Punjab, was put in his place by being passed over for deputy leader. Likewise, Ghulam Nabi Azad, the leader of the party in the Rajya Sabha and the most senior Congress leader to have signed the letter, was put on notice. K.C. Venugopal, AICC general-secretary (Organization), whose status as the Family’s proxy had caused much of the heartburning that led to the letter, was made part of a new five-member ‘decision-making’ group in the upper House. The leaders of the faux rebellion fell in line. Party men, dissidents and loyalists alike, beseeched Rahul Gandhi to resume the office he had so recently vacated. Akhilesh Prasad Singh, Rajya Sabha MP from Bihar, published a propitiatory tweet. He had signed the letter, he admitted, but he hadn’t meant to discuss party matters publicly. He had complete confidence in Soniaji and Rahulji. Shashi Tharoor, three times Lok Sabha MP and arguably the letter’s most substantial signatory, tweeted obedience: “… once the Congress President says the issue is behind us, it is the duty of all of us to work together constructively in the interests of the Party. I urge all my colleagues to uphold this principle and end the debate.” The reading public could have been forgiven for asking, which issue, what debate? In its aftermath, the controversy about the letter felt like a made-up storm in a missing teacup. The moves to re-allocate party authority in Parliament seemed unnecessary; there didn’t seem much call for party whips when the Congress’s dissidents had such a gift for self-correction. Meanwhile, large sections of the Indian people, once the Congress’s constituency, had been wooed and won by Narendra Modi in the name of his ideological ancestors. People beleaguered by the BJP’s majoritarianism live in hope that the Congress’s grandees will find it within themselves to shake the party out of its undead state and get down to the task of democratic politics: mobilizing people. On this showing, though, this is wishful thinking. The members of the CWC have spent so many years raising the dead that they’ve wholly forgotten how to stir up the living. mukulkesavan@hotmail.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-157
30-08-2020||Opinion||Unique charm: The allure of Feluda||Sir — The article, “Feluda and Co.” (Aug 26), by Uddalak Mukherjee made for an enjoyable reading. Although I have always been an ardent fan of Feluda’s adventures, other literary characters created by Satyajit Ray — who is my favourite author — especially the ones in his short stories, are equally attractive to me. In fact, I always found the central characters of the short stories in the “baro” series very interesting. It is unfortunate that most Bengali readers from the younger generations have not read Ray beyond Feluda. One hopes that on the occasion of Ray’s one hundredth birth anniversary guardians would encourage their wards to read Bengali short stories along with the escapades of beloved characters like Feluda and Professor Shonku. Sourish Misra Calcutta Sir — Few people in Bengal have not read stories penned by Satyajit Ray. His short stories are so addictive that they are impossible to put down even when one is re-reading them. Most important, all his characters — be it the comic Jatayu or the evil Mandar Bose or Maganlal Meghraj — are well-rounded and have such depth. Ray’s contribution to Bengali literature is priceless and will continue to entertain generations to come.Alok Ganguly Kalyani Sir — Uddalak Mukherjee has called on the Bengali intelligentsia to ponder the unique unimpeachability of Feluda against the fallibility of other leading characters in Satyajit Ray’s other works. However, in doing so, he appears to have done injustice to the beloved detective. Mukherjee quotes at length from Leela Majumdar to establish that Feluda is a ‘flat’ character in the Fosterian sense. But we must remember that Ray created Feluda for the young readers of Sandesh, a children’s magazine. This could be why he deprived Feluda of a female companion. Like many others of my generation, I grew up reading Feluda stories in Sandesh and never noticed the absence of female characters. Even when his adventures were later published in the Desh magazine for a broader audience, his image remained the same: a tall, urbane young man with a razor sharp intelligence who can solve cases even when there is little evidence. Yet, Feluda, much like the rest of us, likes the good things in life, smokes cigarettes, is a fan of Sherlock Holmes, Tintin and Jim Corbett. Mukherjee’s twilight men, on the other hand, belong to a different genre. Their faults and foibles are demanded by their plots. These men may be subjected to critical analysis just as the famous sleuth. Anjan Majumdar Calcutta Sir — It is true that Feluda is above and beyond the ken of flesh and blood human beings, devoid of usual frailties. Uddalak Mukherjee has also rightly pointed out that Satyajit Ray has mostly omitted women characters from his works. But is this a coincidence or is it deliberate? Ray created ‘Feluda and Co.’ to whet the appetite of young Bengali readers. Not so the characters in “baro” series. While his writing struck a chord with the young and the old alike, his characterization in both cases was done with his target audience in mind. In a nutshell, all of us love to read the books of Feluda for his ‘magajastro’ which makes him a class apart from all other detectives. We also love to read his other stories and their protagonists, but for a different set of reasons. Anathbandhu Banerjee West Burdwan Sir — It is not everyday that a news in the entertainment section of the newspaper alarms people. Recently, I read that popular medical dramas like Grey’s Anatomy are going to replan their next season to include the coronavirus crisis. This is not the only show planning this either. These shows already use up precious medical supplies like masks and gloves. One shudders to think how much personal protective equipment it will go through in order to film the new plot. This is shocking at a time when not just frontline medical staff but also poor people around the globe are either not provided or cannot afford such basic safety measures amidst a very real pandemic. Roshni Sen Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-157
