31-08-2020||Opinion||Vocal for local: Adopting Indian dog breeds||Sir — Whatever the political reasons behind it, the prime minister’s appeal to adopt Indian dog breeds — both to citizens and the armed forces — is encouraging. Perhaps now Indians will sit up and take notice of the Indie breeds that are neglected in favour of breeds like Labrador retrievers. Left to their devices, these breeds reproduce in large numbers creating an imbalance in local ecologies. Adopting strays can radically reduce urban man-animal conflict.Rima Roy,Calcutta Ear to the ground Sir — Ramachandra Guha’s article, “Aural pleasure” (Aug 29), kindled nostalgia. Guha mentions some noted commentators, praising them for their “profound understanding of the game’s history and techniques, and the ability (as well as desire) to transcend national partisanship.” However, while mentioning Indian commentators, Guha has done injustice. He has remarked, “[T]hey talk too much and talk over the action, all the while making it shamelessly obvious that all they want from a Test match is that their side should win.” Those who have heard Indian commentators cannot but disagree with Guha on his allegations about the parochial approach of our commentators. Sunil Gavaskar, for instance, was the chairman of the International Cricket Council’s technical committee and is second to none in his knowledge about “the game’s history and techniques”. About a decade before the period that Guha talks about, we had commentators like Sydney Friskin, Pearson Surita, Berry Sarbadhikari and Maharajkumar of Vizianagram or ‘Vizzy’. All of them were stalwarts and could make listeners feel as if they were present on the ground. Vizzy, however, often left listeners impatient because while the game was on, he used to narrate his personal experience of playing, sometimes allowing an entire over to pass by without actual commentary.Sanjit Ghatak,South 24 Parganas
Sir — Cricket remains suspended in a limbo in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic; there is little possibility of the game returning to normal anytime soon. The few matches that are being played are taking place under severe restrictions. At such a time cricket commentary gains utmost importance. Not everyone can afford OTT platforms where the matches are being streamed live. Many in India, for instance, still depend on radio commentary to enjoy matches while on the move. Others huddle in front of shops selling electronic goods to catch the match; the crowd in front of such TV sets is so huge that not everyone can see what is going on. Commentators thus have an important role to play in the present scenario. Ramachandra Guha has rightly pointed out that commentators should focus on the game and not talk incessantly. Subho Bhattacharjee,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-156
31-08-2020||Opinion||Greedy: 'Vaccine nationalism'||Nationalism is an evolving phenomenon. That perhaps explains the reason for its various mutations. Among these new forms, ‘vaccine nationalism’ has, understandably, raised concern around the world. It has been reported that developed nations such as the United States of America and the United Kingdom have put in place a plan to stock the vaccine against Covid-19, if and when there is one, in a manner that is disproportionate to the needs of their respective populations. The US has made agreements with, reportedly, six pharmaceutical companies that are in the race to develop a drug, assuring itself of a combined 800 million doses. This essentially means that over two doses of the medicine would be available for every American citizen. The figure in the case of the UK is five doses per capita. This kind of predatory tactic and discriminatory sensibility is not unprecedented. At the dawn of the outbreak of the swine flu pandemic, economies with deeper pockets had been accused of hoarding vaccines to the detriment of poorer — needy — countries. The implications of vaccine monopoly are many and dangerous. There are speculations that the capacity of manufacturing and distribution of a Covid-19 vaccine may be somewhat limited in the initial months. This means that if the bulk of the medication were to be pre-booked by two or more countries, the supply of the drug to the rest of the world would be adversely affected. This, in turn, raises the possibility of the wait for the vaccine — even after a vaccine is available — becoming longer. The death toll is likely to increase correspondingly. There is also the issue of pricing. Depleted supplies could push up prices, putting the medicine out of the reach of a number of economically weaker, populous nations. Vaccine nationalism, much like other strident forms of nationalism, has bared a fundamental, ugly truth. Populism, political compulsions and, most glaringly, myopia are being prioritized by regimes — democratic or authoritarian — over the right to equitable healthcare. This only goes to reiterate the importance of a programme like Covax, facilitated by the World Health Organization and its alliance partners, which seeks to make investments to ensure that successful vaccines can be developed and distributed fairly on a global scale. Unfortunately, Covax’s future is likely to be determined by collective political will. This element, central to international cooperation, seems to have been decimated by the contagion.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-156
31-08-2020||Opinion||Urgent tests: Holding JEE-NEET exams||Fear seems to have become a constant in every sphere of life in India. It is now hovering over the issue of examinations that are to be held in September in spite of the rising numbers of the coronavirus infection. The University Grants Commission has stated that college and universities must hold examinations for graduating students by September 30, while the Centre has ruled that the Joint Entrance Examination Main and Advanced for engineering courses and the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test for medical courses shall be held on their scheduled dates in September. The Supreme Court has supported the UGC’s argument that degrees cannot be awarded on the basis of internal assessment; an examination alone demonstrates a student’s competence. That is perhaps undeniable — it is pointless to lament the fact that education in India is solely examination based. The court has also upheld the Centre’s argument that students will lose an academic year if JEE and NEET are not held in September. Six Opposition-ruled states have filed a petition seeking that these tests be postponed by six to eight weeks. That would still give students time to complete an academic year, while special arrangements could be made for transport and lodging for the sake of their health. The JEE and NEET mean the movement of 25 lakh students mostly on public transport, and in-person tests entail hours together in enclosed spaces. Isolation of students showing Covid-19 symptoms and seating 12 students in a room, as instructed by the UGC for graduation examinations, and online tests that would exclude many among the possibly one crore examinees, seem impracticable. In spite of arguments in favour of holding examinations now, the fact is that the times are unnatural. Some political parties and students are protesting against what they perceive as an endangering of students’ health — and of their families to whom they might carry the infection. They point out that members of parliament are protecting themselves by not sitting, although the Centre has declared that parents and students are pressing for the examinations to be held on time. But is the Centre not responsible for young people’s safety and the consistency of efforts to control the pandemic? A little thinking could have thrown up solutions. Adjustment is not a novel concept.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-156
31-08-2020||Opinion||Lost labour: Working Indian women||Employment of women in India has an interesting trajectory. The periodic labour force survey (2018-19) states that approximately 83 per cent of the total number of women employed in India earn their livelihood as casual labour. Metropolitan cities are magnets for migrants. A study of Census 2011 shows that women constitute almost 70 per cent of the internal migrant community. Rural-urban migration primarily occurs to expand the opportunity set of the household. However, in contrast to the popular perception of the ‘city’ being the hub of opportunities, women are engaged in home-based labour, such as making earrings, dhaga cutting, filling bottles with limestone, rolling beedis and so on to add to the family income. Women’s engagement in home-based work has deep-rooted patriarchal and capitalist underpinnings. While patriarchy imposes severe mobility restrictions on women, capitalism portrays ‘home-based work’ as ‘safer alternatives’. However, women do become subjects of exploitation and are made invisible in the value chain of products. They are paid meagre wages and are devoid of employment benefits as members of the informal economy. One can only imagine the plight of women engaged in home-based work during the pandemic. Structural inequalities have amplified. Unpaid work (inclusive but not limited to extended childcare, household chores, sourcing ration and groceries, cooking, cleaning) has increased manifold. The impact of the pandemic and ensuing lockdown is being felt disproportionately by marginalized and vulnerable sections of society. The International Labour Organization stated that approximately 400 million informal sector workers are at risk of abject poverty in India. Research for this article primarily involved interaction with women home-based workers in Kurla, Mumbai. Their narrative indicated that their bargaining power, which was already negligible, has been severely impacted. They would be, yet again, treated as the reserve army of labour and be at the mercy of contractors. Moreover, home as a ‘workspace’ does not provide a conducive environment for home-based workers. There are severe repercussions on their physical and mental health. The loss of livelihood brings with it unimaginable trauma and uncertainty. Angus Deaton, the Nobel laureate economist, and Anne Case coined the phrase, ‘deaths of despair’, to bring to attention the reduction in life expectancy among working-age Americans after the recession of 2008. It is likely that this pandemic will weaken the position of labour, deepen inequities and polarize society. Women in India already account for 36 per cent of global female suicides. The government must intervene. To begin with, we have to build and protect the agency of women home-based workers by listening to their demands and incorporating them in policy. There must be recognition and payment of the work undertaken by women home-based workers. This would help attain the following Sustainable Development Goals: 1 (no poverty); 5 (gender equality); 10 (reduced inequalities). The privilege of ‘capitalizing’ on a crisis is not available to all. The impoverishment of the vulnerable segments of society has amplified and is yet to be addressed. It is upon us, as a nation, to acknowledge our nirbharta on invisible women workers and their valuable contribution to the economy. How else can India become atmanirbhar?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-156
31-08-2020||Opinion||Debt and taxation: The art of plucking the goose||“A government that robs Peter to pay Paul can always depend on the support of Paul.” — G.B. Shaw History suggests that high and accelerating debt levels are common during wars. Covid-19 can be compared to a ruthless enemy in a war. When the dust settles, how will policymakers deal with this mountain of debt? Luckily, interest rates are dramatically low today; the burden of servicing a one-off increase in government debt is less taxing. With austerity in many countries a taboo word, there are two possibilities — higher taxes and inflation. One of the most significant archaeological discoveries ever was a tax document — the Rosetta Stone. It was unearthed in 1799 by one of Napoleon’s officers, as French soldiers plundered ancient Egyptian tombs for relics to send home. Napoleon, a product of the French Revolution, hoped to overthrow anciens régimes across Europe, including the United Kingdom. The resulting naval arms race put massive pressure on exchequers on both sides of the English Channel. The Napoleonic Wars added over £600 million to the national debt, costing thrice as much as the previous four wars combined. This war debt and the interest payable thereon burdened the Britishers with a huge perpetual charge, bringing great hardship for the next half a century. Income tax has had a greater impact on human history than any piece of legislation ever enacted. Henry IV, in 1404, was allowed a one-off income tax, provided it was not made a precedent. To keep it under wraps, every record was burnt. A contemporary chronicler called the tax “vexatious and burdensome”. Not only was it the ‘tax to beat Napoleon’, but income tax was also a game-changer in WWI and funded the US contribution to WWII, thus winning the war for the Allies. The British prime minister, William Pitt the Younger, is widely considered to be the man who introduced income tax to the world. It was rumoured of the government at that time, ‘Wherever you see an object, tax it!’ In 1842, income tax was an interim measure, to be repealed as soon as government revenues balanced. Britain is still waiting 178 years later. Income tax’s effectiveness is what doomed its chances of ever being repealed. Pitt had created a tax that has become a standard fiscal feature of economies across the globe. Cut to 2020. It’s not difficult to imagine a future where more taxes are levied. The European Commission’s landmark July deal to raise 750 billion euros of debt across 27 nations included a promise to explore new sources of income. France is leading the charge for EU taxes on global digital companies and a carbon border levy on foreign polluting imports. Tax on wealth could be a target since a large proportion of recent financial gains owes much more to the monetary actions of central banks than gains in underlying performance. Another area could be pensions as the biggest post-pandemic economic losers are those at the beginning, rather than the end, of their careers. There could also be a renewed interest in ‘treasure islands’ (tax havens) in the event of an international agreement. Screams of anguish are inevitable. Copernicus called it “insidious” — because it is ‘hidden’ — while Keynes felt it happens in a way “not one man in a million is able to diagnose”. It is inflation. A heady concoction of central banks’ unbridled fiscal and monetary support, a recoil against widening income inequality and a growing national debt will trigger high inflation over time. While an economist may term it ‘expanding the money supply’ or ‘artificially stimulating credit’, for the historian, it’s ‘debasement of money’. Whatever your preference, it’s a particularly vicious form of taxation. Medieval kings and Roman emperors reduced the amount of gold and silver in coins — ‘coin clipping’. Weimar Germany, post-WWII Hungary and Zimbabwe simply printed money, unbacked by anything. Today’s central banks suppress interest rates, use amorphous measures of inflation, deploy quantitative easing: the techniques may differ, but not the intention. Devalue money and we devalue debt and lighten our obligations. “There is no subtler, no surer means of overturning the existing basis of society,” said Keynes, “than to debauch the currency.” The worst inflation rears its ugly head where government spending is the greatest, with the terrible irony that governments that spend the most looking after their needy end up making them poorer. “The art of taxation consists of so plucking the goose as to obtain the most feathers with the minimum amount of hissing.” Undeclared, unseen and misunderstood, the inflation tax means that the goose is plucked silently. It is the stealthiest of stealth taxes and hurts those who rely on salaries or savings by eroding the value of money they earn while pushing the price of the assets they want to buy out of bounds. The salaried classes are hit on both sides. Many of those bearing the brunt of today’s debt are not born yet. Like Pitt’s Napoleonic War debts, which was finally repaid in 2015, future generations would be saddled with the burden. Debt is indeed, to use the clarion call of the American revolutionaries, taxation without representation. We are faced with a grim situation where the lower and the middle classes are ground between the millstones of inflation and taxation. Someone will eventually have to pay for the lockdown costs of a pandemic that has wreaked far greater economic damage than anybody could have imagined. The author is a Harvard alumnus and works for an investment bank in Mumbai. He is also a member of the Young Scholars Initiative at the Institute for New Economic Thinking, founded by George Soros et al.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-156
31-08-2020||Opinion||Choose wisely||August 5 marked the one-year anniversary of the lockdown in Kashmir — a lockdown that started months ahead of the pandemic that broke out in the world. Last year, on August 5, the Indian government decided to withdraw Kashmir’s special status and bifurcate it into two Union territories. The message of doing this to a Muslim-majority Kashmir was not lost on anyone. It also led to an indefinite lockdown, much of which is still in place. While human rights organizations around the world condemned the move and
it led to international headlines, most countries treated it as India’s ‘internal matter’. This was most likely on account of India’s economic pull and the huge market it offers to the world. Pakistan tried its best to rally the world on the issue but the vested interests of the international community came in its way. The Indian prime minister, Narendra Modi, wanted to show his voters and supporters that he would deliver what was promised in the Bharatiya Janata Party’s manifesto regarding Kashmir. He also delivered on another of his promises — by laying the foundation stone of the Ram Temple on the one-year anniversary of August 5, he gave a loud message that the country, in an official capacity, now stands for majoritarian rule. By doing this on the day Kashmir’s special status was changed, Modi laid the final nail in the coffin of India’s secularism as his own legacy is obviously at the opposite end of the spectrum. The BJP under Modi has distanced itself from the ethos of Indian secularism. The Muslim minority in the world’s largest democracy now lives on the edge as a result of Modi’s policies. When he was first elected in 2014, many analysts — including me — had predicted this. Modi has proved us right. From Kashmir to Delhi riots, from a pliant media (there are some honourable exceptions) to a foreign policy that has alienated India’s neighbours, Modi has undone what the Indian Constitution stood for once upon a time. His legacy will be that of someone who pushed Indian society into extremism and towards majoritarianism. It takes decades to build something but only a few years to ruin it. We have seen it all around the world. It is quite an unfortunate sight. When one community feels it is superior to the rest of the inhabitants of the country or when there is an anti-minority rhetoric at the official level, it changes the narrative. When there is any mention of Pakistan in India, it is not just about my country but there is a stark anti-minority connotation attached to it. This is something that not many outside India would understand but it is a reality. Online trolling of Indian journalists who don’t toe the official line is something that we have witnessed for almost a decade now. It is ugly; it is crass; it is horrendous. Apart from the mental toll it takes, it also affects one’s work. The corporatization of many Indian media outlets is another reason why there is no pushback from these outlets. The basic principles of journalism are thrown out of the window. I have been a victim at the hands of an Indian channel’s anti-Pakistan rhetoric recently. When a small group of women journalists released a statement about online abuse, an Indian channel asked me to send a video about our demands. The short clip was edited and distorted. It was used in an anti-Pakistan package that had nothing to do with the said statement. I officially complained and it was taken down later but the damage had already been done — I got online death threats as a result and I am still being hounded for something that was not even my fault. Sometimes I wonder if the Indian media just want to use people as fodder for their own agenda. Unfortunate but inevitable I guess. There are lessons to be learnt though. If there is no pushback against such fascist policies, an entire generation and the coming generations will suffer. Someone would need to stand up. It is understandable if the Opposition parties are weak and unable to do what is expected of them but this pushback has to come from within one’s society. If today’s generation fails to stand up to these policies, they will have no one but themselves to blame for what lies ahead for their own children and grandchildren. Fear is also understandable but it should not make one desist from complaining. Look at the United States of America. The entire Black Lives Matter campaign was a pushback — against oppression, against racism, against the status quo. More and more people became part of the campaign. The movement captured the international headlines and also became a cry for many marginalized communities around the world. This is how societies stand up to power. The world is changing, but not for the better I suppose. But there are things we can inculcate in our future generations, such as right values; values that will make them speak up against tyranny, values that will make them call a spade a spade; values that will make them call out injustice; values that will not make them a part of oppression. This is something that we were taught at home and also learnt with the passing years. Yesterday was the day of Ashura, the day of the martyrdom of Imam Hussain at Karbala. It has lessons for all of us, the most important one being that always stand up for what is right and never compromise on your principles. Those who stand on the right side of history will be remembered till eternity. The side we choose today will determine our path tomorrow. Let us not go down the path chosen by the oppressors. The author is a journalist based in Lahore; mehmal.s@gmail.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-156
