02-06-2020||News||Recovery must take into account the climate crisis||As the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) continues to engulf the world, the other big agenda of our time — the climate crisis — has begun to re-emerge from the shadows. The big question, of course, is whether the pandemic will accelerate our quest for a zero-carbon-emission world or will it set us back. The lessons of the virus will not automatically rub-off on the climate crisis agenda unless a set of deliberate, strategic actions are taken. Covid-19 has certainly opened everyone’s eyes to possibilities that can positively impact the climate agenda. Clean, breathable air and the reality of a work-from-home culture are the obvious ones. For manufacturers, shorter supply chains with its lower Scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions will become a business continuity imperative. The similarities between Covid-19 and the climate crisis — both in terms of their disruptive impacts on human lives and the economy and their response that emphasises science and the need to build resilience — can also benefit the climate agenda. There are other reasons for optimism. A Standard & Poor’s global report says that during the pandemic, companies such as Microsoft, Royal Dutch Shell, Morgan Stanley, Bank of Montreal and Citibank have made climate-related pledges. A BBC report quoted Frans Timmermans, the chief of the European Commission (EU)’s Green Deal (which commits the EU to net-zero emissions by 2050), as saying that every euro spent on economic recovery measures after the Covid-19 crisis will be linked to the green transitions.However, history and economics provide a counter-narrative. For instance, after the 2008 financial crisis, global carbon dioxide emissions from fossil fuel combustion and cement production fell 1.4% in 2009, but with economic stimulus resources disproportionately allocated to polluting industries, emissions rebounded to 5.9% in 2010. The impact of the indefinite postponement of COP- 26, where countries were expected to announce enhancement of their Paris commitments, is still awaited. Big emitters such as China, the US and Brazil have indicated a relaxation on environmental compliances and enforcement. Even as the EU reiterates its commitment to the Green Deal, a few member-countries have publicly sought moratoriums. The negative growth economies of the developed countries will mean less finance available to developing countries to meet their Nationally Determined Contributions, a condition that countries such as India have placed in order to fulfil its own commitments. And historically low oil prices, combined with reported announcements from major oil producers to increase production, will work against the interests of a low-carbon recovery.There is, therefore, reason to believe that a post-Covid low-carbon recovery is neither inevitable nor automatic. Therefore, a set of five actions can and must be taken to enable this to happen. One, nudge governments on to a low-carbon recovery path. Climate champions — NGOs, think tanks, academia, activists around the world — should produce evidence to demonstrate to governments the long-term economic and resilience gains from economic stimulus programmes that prioritise investments in low-carbon pathways. This could include assistance to businesses conditioned on drastic cuts in emissions and financial industry bailouts that require banks to invest less in fossil fuel and more in climate crisis mitigation and resilience efforts. Two, make the climate crisis a people’s campaign. The environmental gains from Covid-19, the renewed faith in science as well as the comparable risks to human life that the climate crisis and Covid-19 represent are good hooks to make it so. This requires converting the incredible scientific evidence that exists on the climate crisis into simple, understandable and actionable messages that individuals and communities, particularly young people, can use to make changes in their own behaviour while influencing businesses and governments in their roles as customers, employees and responsible citizens. Three, strengthen the “business case” for climate efforts. Some of the rub-offs of Covid-19 on climate such as shorter supply changes and reduced business travel are self-evident to companies and will happen. Investors and lenders, who have understood risk better now must see the benefits of pushing for resilience in the companies they fund. Insurers must factor in these risks. All this will incentivise companies to go down a low caron path.Four, build a national consensus on long-term low-carbon strategy. The response to Covid-19 has demonstrated both the need and the possibility for a political consensus, which is critical in a democracy. Climate crisis actors such as think tanks and advocacy groups should work to ensure this momentum is maintained. The development of long-term low greenhouse gas emissions development strategies for India will be a useful instrument to build such a consensus.Five, strengthen international cooperation and institutions. To address the spatial aspects of a global challenge such as the climate crisis, there is a need for a global institution to anchor the process, a role that the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCC) has played for a long time. However, the somewhat tarnished reputation of the World Health Organization during Covid-19, and the rather scattered and private sector-driven search for a vaccine, suggests that strengthening international cooperation and UNFCC and United Nations Environment Programme as institutions is a project that all climate change champions must commit themselves to.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/recovery-must-take-into-account-the-climate-crisis/story-7yJliq19mzpnlBqlYzywGJ.html
02-06-2020||News||How the coronavirus crisis may feed anti-microbial resistance||Developing countries are reeling under the burden of drug-resistant infections. Poor availability and utilisation of diagnostics and compromised infection-control in communities and hospitals result in an overuse of anti-microbials. It contributes to the development of highly-resistant pathogens which are difficult to destroy. It is well-known that diarrhoea and upper respiratory tract infections are usually caused by viruses, but account for more than 60% of anti-microbial prescriptions. With an increasing focus on anti-microbial resistance globally, India has initiated small but important steps to introduce anti-microbial stewardship to rationalise its prescriptions in hospitals.The coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic threatens to undermine these efforts, more so in resource-poor settings with fragile health systems. Like most other viral respiratory tract infections, Covid-19 is self-limiting and causes a mild form of the disease in most patients. In the absence of a specific antiviral treatment, patients are prescribed antibiotics in hospitals across the world.Research published in China, Italy and the United Kingdom show that the majority of people hospitalised with Covid-19 infection were given antibiotics despite little evidence of associated bacterial infections. Although there are no published reports from India, anecdotal evidence suggests that bacterial co-infections are infrequent in patients with suspected severe Covid-19 requiring hospitalisation.With labs quickly shifting their focus to Covid-19 and deprioritising cultures/anti-microbial susceptibility testing, evidence of secondary bacterial or fungal infections in Covid-19 patients is limited. Not enough cultures are being sent for confirmation for the presence of secondary bacterial or fungal infections from Covid-19 patients. There is a significant risk to the laboratory staff collecting samples and technicians processing them due to the shortage of personal protection equipment (PPE) and biosafety challenges in the labs.Such concerns have led many hospitals not conducting routine microbiological examination on Covid-19 patients, undermining the diagnosis and treatment of secondary infections. Since it is challenging to distinguish between bacterial or fungal infections and existing viral pneumonia based on clinical symptoms and radiological findings, the microbiological examination will be valuable for diagnosing secondary infections to guide anti-microbial prescription. It’s imperative to strengthen the investigation of secondary infection and/or co-infection in Covid-19 patients at all health facilities without compromising the safety of the laboratory staff.Until there is evidence that Sars-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, is associated with bacterial or fungal co-infections, antibiotics should not be prescribed and the patients must be treated symptomatically. Even when antibiotics are prescribed, the narrowest spectrum agent should be prioritised to target the likely pathogens. India has very high resistance rates to some of the broad-spectrum anti-microbials. It is advisable that such antibiotics should be reserved for situations in which the differentiation between the bacterial and viral aetiology is not possible based on clinical symptoms. If symptoms are severe, antibiotics should be prescribed based on local epidemiology and antibiograms (susceptibility of a specific micro-organism to a battery of anti-microbial drugs). If Sars-CoV-2 infection is confirmed, the antibiotic prescription should be reviewed and discontinued, unless there is clear evidence of bacterial co-infection.In the absence of a vaccine and doubts about Sars-CoV-2 immunity, the coronavirus pandemic may last longer than expected. Having better infection control practices are expected to bring down the incidence of hospital-acquired infections. Yet, there will always be a chance that a certain percentage of patients may require anti-microbials to treat secondary infections. The pipeline of new anti-microbials is running dry and no novel antimicrobials are in immediate sight. We will need antimicrobials long after the coronavirus crisis is over.It is, therefore, important to define indications of antibiotic use in Covid-19 patients and follow the principles of anti-microbial stewardship. If indiscriminate prescribing continues, it will compromise the gains the country has made by introducing anti-microbial stewardship in hospital. Treading with caution and using the available anti-microbials judiciously will save us from jeopardising anti-fungal and anti-bacterial treatments after Covid-19 is over.Kamini Walia is the programme officer, anti-microbial resistance, Indian Council of Medical Research. The views expressed are personalThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/how-the-coronavirus-crisis-may-feed-anti-microbial-resistance/story-v4jYF31vEA8lJZvi4PYSrI.html
02-06-2020||News||As the LAC heats up, reading China’s playbook||The stand-off between Indian and Chinese forces at Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh continues with both sides reinforcing their respective positions. While tensions may be reduced through continuing dialogue in mechanisms put in place over the past several years, the key issue is whether Chinese troops agree to vacate the area they have occupied by violating the Line of Actual Control (LAC).China would be content if, after altering the facts on the ground, the stand-off is defused, say by a limited disengagement of a few metres between the troops, leaving most of the encroached territory in Chinese hands. China may agree to vacate the occupied area but expect concessions in return. These could include a halt to border infrastructure development on the Indian side of LAC, even the dismantling of built up structures. In the Doklam stand-off in 2017, the forces of the two sides disengaged. China halted additional road-building activity but continues to consolidate its position in the occupied area. The bottom line — facts on the ground remain altered to China’s advantage although India’s action forestalled further ingress. Therefore, unless India is able to find an effective counter-strategy to this pattern of Chinese behaviour, incidents of the kind we have seen at many points on LAC are not only likely to continue but to intensify.There is another feature to the Chinese playbook. This is evident at the India-China border and in other theatres such as the South China Sea, the Taiwan Straits and the Yellow Sea. Each Chinese action, taken in isolation, may not be regarded as threatening enough to require a strong and countervailing military riposte. Over a period of time, however, a string of such “isolated” incidents add up cumulatively to a significant change in the balance of power on the ground. China’s dominance of the South China Sea, its occupation and militarisation of several offshore islands, have reached a point where only a major military offensive, perhaps even war, may be necessary to reverse Beijing’s advantage. As is apparent, such risky actions are unlikely. At the most, one may expect the now alerted major powers, to prevent any further gains by China. So this is another important part of the playbook — incremental advances short of the threshold of a likely military response from adversaries, but resulting over time in a more favourable balance of power. We have seen this at the India-China border over the years. There has beenconstant nibbling activity which the Indian side confronts, but it is unable or unwilling to go on a military offensive to reverse Chinese gains. We have to understand these salami-slicing tactics and develop an effective counter-strategy. This may require the ability to use the ambiguity of LAC to make asymmetric gains in zones where we have a tactical advantage. Only then will there be some bargaining chips available with us to restore the status quo.There is a third element in the Chinese playbook that needs attention. China calibrates its posture towards any country based on a careful assessment of the balance of economic and military capabilities. This may sometimes go wrong because Chinese leaders are relatively insular and self-centred in their outlook. There is a cultural predilection towards tactical agility, even deception, in interState relations and little patience with notions of statesmanship. After the 1962 war, China’s default position on the border was the so-called package proposal, essentially formalising the prevailing status quo. In 1985-86, after the Wandung incident in the eastern sector, the package proposal was reinterpreted to mean that a settlement required India to make “meaningful concessions” in the east, the area of largest dispute, for which China would make appropriate-though-undefined-concessions in the western sector. Subsequently, it was conveyed that in any settlement, Tawang would have to be “returned” to China.What we now see is a further moving of the goalposts, with China’s behaviour suggesting that the ambiguity over the precise alignment of LAC gives it the opportunity to trigger incidents at points of choice in order to make both local, tactical gains but to also convey a larger message that it has a stronger hand when dealing with India.Some analysts suggest that India should not provoke China by moving closer to the United States (US), the implication being that distancing from the US and other countries which China regards as adversaries, would somehow lessen the pressure on India. This is strange logic. It suggests that decisions on India’s foreign policy are being made in Washington but should that be replaced by their being made in accordance with Chinese preferences instead? India’s foreign policy should be made in New Delhi in India’s best interests. It has been New Delhi’s experience that strong relations between India and the US, indeed with other major powers, give India greater room for manoeuvre and ability to manage the China challenge. The more isolated India is, the greater its vulnerability to Chinese pressures.At this juncture, no military alliance with the US is on the cards. But building and strengthening a strong and credible countervailing coalition of major powers, which share India’s concerns about the China’s predatory predilections, is prudent policy even as India must marshal its energies to reduce the asymmetry of power with China which is at the heart of our current predicament.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/as-the-lac-heats-up-reading-china-s-playbook/story-0b7pzNwsL282ktzMsj5YWK.html
02-06-2020||News||The dismantling of the idea of India||March 24, 2020, was a watershed moment with Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi announcing a national lockdown in view of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. This black swan event in the first year of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government’s second term in office has changed our lives. Prior to that date, the government was pushing the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)’s core agenda with characteristic authoritarianism. But the pandemic has humbled all of us, including those with invincible mindsets.Two decisions of Modi-1 cast their shadow on the Modi-2 dispensation. First, the ill-thought-out, knee-jerk decision of the PM on November 8, 2016, to demonetise high-value currency notes. The rich were able to exchange their unaccounted cash but it deprived the poor of their hard-earned money. That was a monetary lockdown that destabilised the economy. The second was the establishment and implementation of a multi-layered Goods and Service Tax (GST) regime, which is mired in confusion even today. Its negative economic fallout impacted the free flow of commercial transactions. The result was that India’s economy grew at 4.2% (2019-20), the lowest in 11 years, as against 6.1% (2018-19). Prior to the pandemic, the unemployment rate touched its highest watermark in 45 years. Industrial growth suffered, as did key sectors of the economy, such as manufacturing, construction, trade, hotels, transportation and communications and financial services. The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) warned (in May 2020) about the slackening of private consumption. Economic growth is a continuum subject to occasional hiccups that no one can control. But during Modi-2, these hiccups were man-made. An economy already in decline needed an impetus to revive it. Instead of concentrating on governance issues — including health care, education and the concerns of the poor — Modi-2 tore the nation apart by polarising it with a communal agenda.In August 2019, Article 370 was recast and President’s rule imposed, with the state of Jammu and Kashmir being converted into two Union territories. This paradigm shift was claimed by Modi as a signal achievement. However, the situation on the ground is far from normal. The communication blackout, detention of political leaders and the imposition of curfew resulted in Kashmir witnessing one of its worst economic crises. Despite the government’s iron grip over the Valley, we have been regularly losing members of India’s security forces. The criminalisation of triple talaq on July 30, 2019 had nothing to do with the pain the BJP felt for Muslim women, especially when it did not shed a tear for the two million Hindu women who are abandoned by or separated from their husbands. The passage of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, 2019, under challenge in the Supreme Court, witnessed protests across campuses in the country. In the violence that erupted in Delhi on February 24-25, 53 people lost their lives and hundreds were injured. Instances of police brutality and, on occasion, collaboration with perpetrators of violence, was there for all to see. But the government looked the other way. The possibility of a National Register of Citizens and the announcement of a National Population Register further stoked communal fires. The passing of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 2019, though intended to fight terror, has been used against those who have raised their voice against the government, which includes Right to Information activists, research scholars, thinkers, photojournalists and others. The aim was to silence dissent. Suddenly, on March 24, things changed. But again, Modi made a mistake. He announced a lockdown with just four hours for its implementation. The consequences are there for all to see. An already sliding economy has been hit hard by the lockdown. The fact that all economic activities have been frozen for months will have dire consequences that will push India back for years. The last quarter of 2019-20, with only seven days of the lockdown, brought economic growth down to 3.1%. Economists have predicted that the growth this year will be in negative territory. This has also been endorsed by RBI. That is not all. A 25% reduction in earnings will increase the number of those below the below the poverty line from 21.9% to 46.3%. In the midst of all this, mass migration of hapless victims of the lockdown has resulted in a humanitarian crisis not seen in this country for a long time. Apart from deaths in trains, because of accidents or hunger and thirst, the sheer scale of the misery is captured by the image of a young child lifting his dead mother’s shroud in an effort to wake her up. The government’s initial denial that no migrant was on the road is consistent with its constant denial of the consequences of ill-thought decisions. Modi-1 symbolised muscle power and a determined PM taking knee-jerk decisions. Modi-2 has dismantled an India that was carefully built by successive governments until 2014. It is time the government realises that its divisive agendas will only jeopardise the future of generations to come. This government must abandon its “let the fire burn and the cauldron bubble” policy and shift gears to address the burning issues of poverty and the marginalisation of those at the bottom of the pyramid.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/the-dismantling-of-the-idea-of-india/story-vx8MYF1KJiH52s3V2bb6SK.html
02-06-2020||News||Modi’s plan for economic revival is a game-changer||The first anniversary of the National Democratic Alliance government, popularly referred to as Modi-2, may have been somewhat subdued due to the lockdown as a result of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). But the achievements of the last 12 months were succinctly encapsulated in Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi’s recent letter to the nation. At the outset, he referred to the Rs 20 lakh crore economic package that he dedicated to the nation on May 12 and stressed his desire to make India self-reliant.There comes a time in a nation’s life when momentous decisions are taken in the interest of not just the current generation, but generations to follow.The year 1991 was a defining moment for independent India, when the then PM, PV Narasimha Rao, opened the country’s zealously-guarded doors to the wider world. It was a decision taken out of compulsion. India was impoverished, out of money and vulnerable. Fear and suspicion were deeply embedded in India’s psyche. We were suspicious of strong foreign forces recolonising us through giant multinational companiesA slew of bold decisions and policy announcements in Modi’s address to the nation on May 12 will go down in the nation’s history as more momentous than those taken in 1991.Modi’s steely political will to make India self-reliant is as courageous as it is visionary. Some of the far-reaching announcements included the push for structural reforms in key areas such as agriculture, defence, coal and public sector enterprises. Linking the benefits to states with their performances was among the highlights of the package. While their positive impact will take time to kick in, there is no doubt that these structural reforms will boost growth. Some in the country expected an instant fiscal stimulus beyond what the country could afford at the moment, or perhaps a reduction in the Goods and Services Tax and income tax rates. They also wanted to see the government’s effort directed exclusively to dealing with the emergency-like situation that we find ourselves in. They gave examples of the United States (US) and United Kingdom’s stimulus packages.Modi’s ideas are all-encompassing. The measures he took ensured that the supply side became robust. Immediately after the lockdown, the government announced a big relief package of Rs 1.7 lakh crore for the bottom 20% of the population. This was followed by a series of measures to provide relief to the poor and farmers. They included cash transfers of over Rs 52,000 crore through Jan Dhan accounts and allocation of an additional Rs 40,000 crore under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme to create jobs for those living on the margins of society. The micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) sector, the backbone of our economy which contributes significantly to the Gross Domestic Product (GDP), is the worst hit by the pandemic. The Modi government has taken targeted measures to boost the MSMEs, including with the support of a sovereign guaranteed loan of Rs 3 lakh crore through equity and subordinated loans. The government deserves appreciation for the path-breaking step of changing the definition of MSMEs.What is also commendable is that despite a huge economic package, the government has not tried to punch above its weight. The Reserve Bank of India has also been proactive in supporting the government’s initiatives and has taken many unconventional measures such as the Targeted Long-term Repo Operation to create the right amount of liquidity available in the system for banks, non-banking financial companies and industry. With the economy in motion again, we have the supply side in place. I am certain some more stimulus measures, within the bounds of fiscal prudence, will be taken to boost demand, which will help the economy accelerate. We have to remind ourselves that the pandemic is still wreaking havoc on the world. But a day will surely come when all this is behind us. That, many believe, will signal the beginning of a new world order built on the collapsed edifice of the international order that emerged in the aftermath of World War 2. Where will India be? This is the most important question on the minds of policymakers. Focusing on the pandemic alone would have been a populist but short-sighted move. Modi has wisely recognised the gravity of the current situation and made bold decisions which will help us maintain our position as a leading global playerThe PM’s clarion call for self-reliance is a game changer. Imagine the force, energy, skills and strength a self-reliant nation of 1.3 billion people will bring to bear on the global polity. If the goal of self-reliance is achieved, we will be in a position to perhaps even compete with China in the near future.Modi’s call to self-reliance is in our national interest. In a post-pandemic world, many countries will look to strengthen production and supply chains and promote homegrown products. Self-reliance will come only with a mindset change and some amount of sacrifice and patience. A self-reliant India, he argued, would be in a much better position to contribute to the worldBut self-reliance does not mean an entire reset of the economy or a throwback to the swadeshi model. It is our own “India First” policy. When we become truly self-reliant, we will be one of the world’s leading economic powerhouses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/modi-s-plan-for-economic-revival-is-a-game-changer/story-Dooz84tyn1FJzDXJCpWOOM.html
