05-06-2020||News||The RTI regime failed India during Covid-19||In the lethal jaws of a pandemic, when lives and livelihoods are at stake, the information law of a democracy is expected to live up to its responsibilities — to empower the citizens and to ensure transparency and accountability. Free flow of information is an essential component of crisis management. And this is a crisis like no other.However, during these trying times, instead of proving its rigour and tenacity, the Right to Information (RTI) regime failed to deliver. People merely turned into passive consumers of media reports, TV debates, advertisements, and press releases churned out by various departments which cannot replace the regime of transparency upheld by the RTI Act. The need of the hour in such adversity is to share data nationwide and reply to RTI queries to clarify doubts, dissipate insecurity, and bolster people’s faith in the information system. After the lockdown was imposed on March 25, the Central Information Commission (CIC) was perhaps the only one out of the total 29 commissions in the country to start work on April 20. As per a telephonic survey conducted by the Commonwealth Human Rights Initiative (CHRI), during the first and second phase of the lockdown, the State Information Commissions (SICs) just remained dormant. Information on critical issues eluded the public. A query, under the RTI, seeking details of PM Cares fund was denied by the Prime Minister’s Office, stating it is not a public authority and the State Bank of India refused to give these details on the ground that it was third party information held under fiduciary capacity. This violates the basic axiom that the public must have access to the details of a public fund. The CIC, in two separate decisions, had directed that information to queries on PM and CM Relief Funds must be given. The matter is pending in the high court since 2018 but no stay was given on CIC’s decision. Some other queries have fared no better. A query filed with the department of financial services (DFS) seeking details of suo motu disclosure of details of actual access to PM Garib Kalyan Yojna by beneficiaries has taken a rollercoaster ride from DFS to the ministry of rural development to the department of economic affairs, back to DFS and again to rural development. While RTI queries regarding the list of district-wise coronavirus disease (Covid-19) treatment facilities were being transferred from one department to another, the health minister issued a press release on the nationwide health care facilities. Tens of thousands of migrant labours, rendered jobless and homeless, walked on the highways and railway tracks towards their homes in the blazing summer heat with their children and humble belongings. Many perished, unsung and unlamented, on their way. However, in reply to a query under the RTI Act, the office of the Chief Labour Commissioner (CLC), under the Union ministry of labour and employment, claimed that it does not have state-wise and district-wise data with respect to the migrant labourers. This, despite the CLC directing the regional heads based in 20 centres across the country to enumerate every migrant worker stranded due to the lockdown within three days during the second week of April. The CIC has directed CLC on May 27 to post the information on the website.A few videos showing police brutality in enforcing restrictions on people’s movement had gone viral. The citizens need to know the truth and action taken against those policemen. Such information can be available only if a robust regime of RTI prevails and the relevant portals are updated with suo motu disclosures.During the Covid-19 scare, bewildered citizens deserve to be taken into confidence. They have the right to know more about the country’s health care system. For instance, who is being held accountable for approving the purchase of faulty testing kits by the government that jeopardised the testing of Covid-19 for days, and for providing poor quality Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) to frontline health care workers who are contracting the infection? Those in lockdown need to access the outer world. State-wise data about the movement of food grains and other essentials was given in press releases. But people need to check out the distribution data at the district and fair price shop level. They need to know whether there has indeed been any diversion of food grains, as alleged. The SICs could have done yeoman’s service at this time hearing such matters on priority.Each of these queries relating to health care, PM Cares fund, welfare programmes and migrants ought to have been on the website portals. A broken RTI system during Covid-19 times could not respond to correct the malaise. SICs remained dormant and the CIC did not bring to book those responsible for the lapse. The current health hazard is fast transforming into a socioeconomic crisis of an immense proportion and government-public interaction as well as information sharing need to increase befittingly. Ministers and government spokespersons cannot remain the sole disseminators of information. There has to be an institutional response through the RTI regime already in place.RTI queries increased by 83.83%, from 8,86,681 in 2012-13 to 16,30,048 in 2018-19, indicating the rising faith of our people in the RTI system. But it is in times of such a crisis that the regime is really tested. The political executive and information commissioners, therefore, need to reflect deeply and bolster the RTI machinery in the interest of the people and the nation at large.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/the-rti-regime-failed-india-during-covid-19/story-B1zj5939aPdl1Z5MwA1AoK.html
05-06-2020||News||Covid-19: A historic opportunity to redefine the Indian school system||Respected Dr Ramesh Pokhariyal ‘Nishank’ ji,I write to you not just as the education minister of Delhi but also as a citizen and parent concerned about the future of millions of children of our country. After a prolonged closure of schools due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), it is heartening to know that ministry of human resource development is devising basic guidelines for reopening schools. The Delhi chief minister, Arvind Kejriwal, said some time ago that “we need to learn to live with corona” and reopening of schools with reasonable precautions is a welcome step in that direction. While the pandemic has created an unprecedented challenge for humanity, it also offers a unique opportunity to re-imagine our schools. In the new way of life post-corona, we need to think afresh about the role of our schools. We can transform schools from being a mere implementers of directions from the directorate or district headquarters to having a central role in our society. And, it would be a historical blunder if we miss this opportunity by not entrusting our schools with a bigger and bolder role to prepare children for a better life and not just for lessons from their textbooks. In this regard, here is what I would like to suggest. First, we need to assure every child, irrespective of age and social class, that they are important to us and all of them have an equal right to the physical and intellectual space of their respective schools. The clamour of online teaching or older children coming to school first and not the younger ones should be put to rest. Online teaching can only complement the learning in school, not replace it. Similarly, in being mindful of ensuring access with equity for all children, students of secondary grades should not be prioritised over primary-grade children. Learning at all stages is important, whether it is preparing for board exams or learning to read and write.Here, I envision two distinct approaches for children of different age groups.To learn to live with the virus, what better place than the school to learn that lesson and which better grades than the early grades from nursery to Class 8. Children of this age group (with reasonable distancing and supportive supervision norms) are among the least likely to be infected and this needs to be communicated to parents. Parents should be taken into confidence and should not be hurried or compelled to send their child to school. Further, the emphasis for children between three to 14 years should be on establishing the foundation of lifelong learning. The focus should exclusively be on the child’s happiness, support for responsible behaviour (without preaching) and building foundational learning skills instead of just completing the remaining syllabus. The goal should be that our children “learn to learn”. The only thing for which a teacher be held accountable is to ensure that every child stays connected with the school and enjoys the new teaching-learning format.For secondary and senior secondary grades, my suggestion is that National Council of Educational Research and Training (NCERT) and Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) be asked to remove the stranglehold of syllabus and rote-learning oriented examinations from the academic life of a child. To begin with, NCERT should reduce the syllabus by at least 30% across all grades and subjects. Let there be more depth in learning and understanding rather than spreading the curriculum far and wide. Similarly, CBSE should move away from the one-time high-stakes exam of class 10 and 12 towards a model of continuous evaluation and anytime exam. In this context, I have another suggestion about redefining our approach towards teachers’ training. We cannot expect a fundamental change in education and examinations unless our teachers are prepared for it. This would entail international level training with exposure to innovative practices across the world. Apart from training, emphasis should also be on research so that new techniques of teaching-learning can be understood and implemented at the school level. We can learn so much from Singapore’s model of teacher training, and the approach of the International Baccalaureate (IB) board towards assessments.With a broad framework in place, we should let the schools re-imagine their role, by taking their context and resources into account, and propose their plan of reopening by consulting with their key stakeholders. In the process of learning to live with the coronavirus, there will be major changes in schools across the world. It is for us to decide whether we reorganise our schools based on the need of our society and learnings from our nation’s great history or that we wait for other countries or some other societies to do something and then we copy-paste those solutions here. In my view, we need to take decisive steps now to place the school right at the centre of the community. I am fully aware that this is not easy, and schools will require a lot of support but just like children, our schools, education systems and policymakers like us also need to learn, grow and be responsible.I hope you will consider my suggestions and together we will give back a better and more caring school to all our children.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/covid-19-a-historic-opportunity-to-redefine-the-indian-school-system/story-isXZ8YoTqrPAxR1TPE1jYK.html
05-06-2020||News||Public servants on official duty need not worry. They have adequate safety guaranteed in law||On May 23, finance minister (FM) Nirmala Sitharaman announced that banks should automatically extend loans to eligible micro, small and medium enterprises sector borrowers without the fear of 3Cs – CBI, CVC, and CAG (Central Bureau of Investigation, Central Vigilance Commission, and Comptroller and Auditor General, respectively). The FM’s statement highlighted the widely perceived apprehension among public servants that they can be later prosecuted for their bona fide decisions.Good governance, which allows public servants to be innovative in their planning and execution, should not be subservient to the repeated assurance of protections by the political executive.Corruption by public servants is undoubtedly a menace to society. It subverts democratic processes and the rule of law, adversely affecting the social and economic development. At the same time, society must protect honest and upright public servants to enable them to function freely and fairly. An efficient and fearless bureaucracy is a must for the country’s growth and it can only be ensured by providing public servants with adequate legal protection.The need of the hour is to instil belief among the public servants as well as the public that existing legal framework balances both the aspects: It punishes the corrupt and protects the honest and upright.In India, the statutory framework relating to anti-corruption laws dates back to 1860 when it was made part of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). Later, it was supplemented with another statute – the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1947 (1947 PC Act). Both of these were finally replaced by a consolidated law, the Prevention of Corruption Act 1988 (1988 PC Act). Delinquent public servants are generally prosecuted under the 1988 PC Act and, sometimes, also under IPC or other penal statutes. These anti-corruption statutes prescribe stringent punishments to create a deterrent effect on corrupt public servants.Under the existing statutory framework, a public servant on official duty is protected from frivolous prosecution at three levels. First, the enactments generally prohibit the initiation of any legal proceeding against a public servant for actions taken by them in good faith. Second, they require prior approval of the concerned government before initiating an enquiry or registering a case for acts done in discharge of his official function or duties. And, third, they require prior sanction from the government for the court to take cognisance of the offence.The above protections, however, cannot be taken as absolute. The authority’s decision to grant or refuse sanction to prosecute, in principle, is final, but such decisions are supposed to be made after scrutinising the evidence in a free and fair manner. Courts have consistently held that the prior sanction is a safeguard for public servants making bona fide decisions, but not a shield for the corrupt. Therefore, at the sanctioning stage, the authority is expected to act in a free and fair manner.At times, public servants are caught in a political quagmire or legal logjam, and, along with political executives, become an undesirable victim of prosecution. Scrutiny of court cases and media reports show that a change in government has on many occasions led to the prosecution of public servants who, as part of their official duties, executed policy decisions of previous regimes.The inadequacy of the existing legal framework in protecting bona fide decisions of public servants brought in an amendment in the PC Act in 2018.These Amendments brought paradigm shift and introduced three significant protections to allay the fears of honest public servants. One, the deletion of Section 13 (1) (d), which allowed even honest decisions to be termed as corrupt on the ground that the decision made was not in the larger public interest. It made public servants liable for prosecution without any mens rea or allegations of quid pro quo. Two, the amendments made the prior approval of government compulsory to initiate an enquiry or investigation against a public servant for decisions taken in discharge of their official duty. And, three, the amendments made prior sanction compulsory for the prosecution of even retired public servants.The 2018 amendments in PC Act, thus, afford among the highest protection in the world to public servants in India. These protections come into play the moment a complaint is brought against the public servant. As there are adequate statutory safeguards available, public servants need not worry about 3Cs while executing policies of the government in an efficient, free, fair and legal manner. But if they are still unable to perform, the fear of 3Cs can only be termed a ruse to avoid responsibility.Amit Anand Tiwari is an advocate in the Supreme Court. He is Special Counsel for CBI, and has extensive experience of handling cases related to the Prevention of Corruption ActThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/public-servants-on-official-duty-need-not-worry-they-have-adequate-safety-guaranteed-in-law/story-Iym4m6Oa7JlKfb9k6fUCbP.html
