08-06-2020||News||How India can come out of the recession stronger | Opinion||By the end of this fiscal year, India may need to recover by approximately a 10% negative swing in its Gross Domestic Product (GDP) growth. No current policymaker or leader has faced such a crisis. India will need to craft a suitable solution to deal with this. Crises provide seasoned politicians the space to overcome resistance from vested interest groups. What measures can India consider to lift the long-run productivity of the economy? I can suggest a few.The virus has underscored that the most important market failure in the future is likely to be in respect to access and use of digital technology and data. During the lockdown, those who had smartphones were advantaged; those who didn’t suffer. A smart phone permitted access to health care, goods and services, digital payments, re-skilling, and education. The government must help India overcome digital apartheid by introducing a new paradigm where every Indian has a smartphone with easy access to data. So we should immediately phase out the sale of feature phones and subsidise smartphones (encouraged to be made in India) and data packages for Indians. It should also train a woman in every village to teach others how to access the full functionality of a smartphone. As we have proved time and time again, when given the right environment, Indians are quick to learn and prosper. The virus forced schools and colleges to learn to impart education digitally. Digital learning across primary, secondary, and higher education has the ability to increase flexibility, engage learners, and expand access to more students. Governments should examine best practices for delivering high-quality instruction remotely, supported by trained teachers, holistic student services, and robust online platforms. Substantial investment in digital education will make societies more resilient to any future emergencies that may require a transition to remote learning. It will also help reinvent and modernise education. Digital education will be a powerful lever in reducing educational inequality in the medium-term. Virtual care had its breakout moment with many providers making strides in weeks for what had previously took years or decades. Denmark rolled out virtual consultation software for specialists in two weeks, Kaiser Permanente moved from 15% of oncology care in virtual settings to 95% in one week, and Queensland Health expanded their virtual care capacity from 90 to 1,600 users. Hence, governments should be bold in what they aim to do. Furthermore, the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) has presented a unique opportunity for countries to reflect on the most essential features of their system to improve health outcomes at the same or lower costs. India needs to rethink its health systems and think of innovative ways to implement new care delivery models, data and analytics, policy-setting, payments, and other important topics in health.Both industry and government have had to get acquainted with modern ways of working. Now, governments need to ensure that they not only retain this momentum but also accelerate their methods. A simple start would be if paper was removed from all bureaucratic offices. Couldn’t all files be moved digitally and digital initials on email become a substitute? Just think of the speed and transparency it would engender.Globally, digital transformation has seen rapid progress with governments focusing on building data control towers that aggregate different public and private data sources to aid decision-making and support scenario analysis. They have established digital platforms that help facilitate market operations in sectors where value chains have been severely disrupted. A lot can be done but let us just begin with paper.The pandemic has triggered long-lasting structural changes that will affect up to 1.5 billion jobs within the next decade. A lot of workers have already lost their jobs and companies may be wanting to actually do away with some of the lost jobs even as the economy gets back to work. The government needs to focus on re-skilling workers in a mission mode. Vast swathes of workers out of employment should be supported by governments to obtain new skills, to improve productivity in core sectors in partnership with industry. It should identify the areas of need, areas capable of creating the maximum jobs — construction, health, textiles, logistics, schools, retail, and anything and everything that is low skilled and where our productivity is low. We should consider how we may use technology and training to re-skill and up-skill our workers. Even though agriculture only contributes 17% to the GDP, it supports a bulk of the population. The government’s actions with respect to improving agricultural productivity should be celebrated and built upon. Cropping patterns should be reviewed and pricing of produce aligned. Water and power tariffs should be introduced. Improved productivity will release labour from agriculture and opportunities should be provided for them in rural areas. Food processing industries and contract farming should be stimulated. Finally, the climate crisis should be part of a green economy agenda, post-Covid-19. There is an opportunity to make a push for a fossil-free, renewable electricity system. We need an urgent resolution of the mess that is in our power distribution. But more broadly, I agree with numerous commentators on the need for India to consider its version of the New Deal or a Marshall Plan by accelerating the investments earmarked in the national investment plan. Front-loading spending to build sorely-needed infrastructure (roads, rail, renewable energy, affordable housing, and provision of water) under a new deal would be the right antidote for the economy. Spending on infrastructure even by printing money will reduce transaction costs and raise productivity. As Benjamin Franklin said, “You may delay but time will not.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/how-india-can-come-out-of-the-recession-stronger/story-rntll4e4joniBQb6ps5r2K.html
08-06-2020||News||To counter China, look for options beyond LAC | Opinion||India and China are currently engaged in an opaque military stand-off across the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC) in the eastern Ladakh region. The meeting between the two general officers from both nations on June 6 ended inconclusively. This was predictable and part of a familiar pattern. This amounts to no breakthrough or breakdown and a bland official statement on what is essentially “stasis in glacial progress” — as it has been since November 1962.Towards the end of May, Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi met with his core security team to review the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) incursion, while Chinese President Xi Jinping called upon his military to “think about worst-case scenarios” and “to scale up battle preparedness”. As part of this resolve, Beijing announced a $178 billion defence budget for 2020, and asserted that the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic would not adversely impact military preparedness. The outcome of the latest talks is that while neither side wants military escalation leading to the exchange of ordnance, the “perception” of LAC in eastern Ladakh may have been altered in China’s tactical favour, pending the final resolution of the seemingly intractable territorial dispute between the Asian giants.Reviewing the current LAC impasse against the larger historical context and examining some structural trends may allow for a better understanding of India’s options and the more viable way ahead to manage the China challenge. The contested LAC is symbolic of the decades-old territorial dispute, and from the Indian perspective, the October 1962 border war remains a stark reminder of the “humiliation” heaped on former PM Jawaharlal Nehru. However, at a deeper level, the discord between the two nations has its roots in their pedigree and self-image, that of ancient civilisations recast by the vicissitudes of history as modern nation-states now seeking to realise a glorious past.The paths chosen were different and the contrast is striking. While Delhi opted for the yet unpaved road of democracy, diversity and Gandhian pacifism, the Chinese path to independence was through Mao’s long march and a communist template. Thus, India will remain the eternal “other” in the Chinese calculus where the success of democracy and memories of Tiananmen 1989 remain the core concern for the ruling elite in Beijing. Thus, Taiwan and Hong Kong are high-octane issues that need to be resolved by President Xi lest the “democracy” virus, symbolically, reaches Tiananmen again.Thus, while LAC and the surge in PLA presence in some areas of eastern Ladakh are causes for concern, the more relevant strand for India to be cognisant of is the unwavering Chinese focus on acquiring comprehensive military power, particularly the trans-border dimension of this military capability.China pits itself against the United States (US) in its quest for great power status and this tape is to be breasted before 2049 — when Beijing will celebrate its centenary. The extended US-China tussle lies in the oceanic global commons, where Beijing perceives a vulnerability: The Malacca dilemma. This refers to China’s marked dependence on the sea lines of communication for its vast trade and energy imports. The Indian Ocean is the critical maritime domain and China is aware of its constraints as a Pacific Ocean power — geographical, political and naval, and the inherent US advantage in this spectrum.It is instructive that China has maintained a steady uptick in its annual defence budget and the current allocation of $178 billion is an increase of almost seven per cent over the last year’s allocation. Within this , PLA navy budget is 30% or $54 billion. The contrast with India is more than stark. The $46 billion Indian allocation for defence was disaggregated to less than 14% for the navy, with the army and air force receiving major part of the defence budget. Thus, with the maritime domain presenting a range of opportunities and challenges for India, the annual naval budget is under $7 billion — and due to the pandemic, this is likely to shrink even further.Steady fiscal support has allowed China to embark on a blistering pace of platform acquisition over the last few years. The PLA navy has been launching as many as 25 new vessels a year and hopes to be a 550-ship navy by 2030. As for the Indian navy, even a 175-ship figure is considered “optimistic”. The PM outlined his maritime vision in 2015 in his first term when he referred to security and growth for all in the region (SAGAR) in the Indian Ocean region. Unfortunately, this remains a vision and the fact that he did not have a full-time defence minister at that time was a major institutional constraint. Now, India has a revamped higher defence structure and one hopes that the engagement with China will be reviewed holistically and options beyond LAC considered . Investing in the long-term acquisition of trans-border military capabilities that subsume emerging technologies is the key to managing the relationship with China. Modi has outlined the SAGAR objective. It needs a capable team that can implement this without resorting to quixotic statements. Sea blindness should not remain a permanent characteristic for Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/to-counter-china-look-for-options-beyond-lac/story-43Vqy8EoH5imAclr4h3OmO.html
08-06-2020||News||Supreme Court has not lived up to its own principles in Jammu and Kashmir, writes Gautam Bhatia||In January, the Supreme Court (SC) handed down an important — but incomplete — judgment in Anuradha Bhasin vs Union of India, a case concerning the restoration of Internet services in Jammu and Kashmir (J&K). It held that the right to access information through the Internet was a fundamental right protected by the Constitution, that orders banning Internet services must be made public, that they must be proportionate (i.e., restricting the Internet must be the “least restrictive alternative” available to the government), that they must be temporary, and reviewed on a regular basis. However, the Court did not actually examine the Kashmir Internet ban on the basis of these principles. Instead, it left that determination up to the government. Nonetheless, and perhaps nudged by the principles set out in SC’s judgment, the government took some steps towards partial restoration. By March 2020, 2G Internet was made available. At that point, however, the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic reached Indian shores, and a nationwide lockdown was announced to contain the spread of the virus. The effects of the lockdown highlighted even more starkly how indispensable a functioning Internet is to modern life. For example, two of the most crucial spheres for dignified human existence — education and health — now had to be accessed through digital means. In response to this, the Foundation for Media Professionals (FMP) filed a fresh petition in SC, arguing that in view of the situation created by Covid-19, 4G Internet had to be restored in J&K. The government contested the petition, stating that restrictions on 4G Internet were required to prevent the spread of inflammatory videos and photos from across the border. FMP responded by pointing out, first, that there was no evidence that showed a connection between restricting the Internet and quelling the spread of propaganda. Indeed, available evidence demonstrated the opposite: Effective Internet allowed the government to counter propaganda with as much speed and efficiency. Second, there were a host of other, less-restrictive alternatives open to the government such as blocking specific websites, or temporarily restricting the Internet in specific areas where there are credible threats of an attack — they were not resorted to. Most important, it was pointed out that restricting Internet in all of J&K— where millions of people lived — during a pandemic effectively involved punishing an entire population in response to the possibility of cross-border propaganda. SC then handed down its judgment in the 4G Internet case. Like in Anuradha Bhasin’s case, it laid down some important principles: It reiterated that the Internet restrictions — even when necessary — had to be localised and temporary. It said that the principle of proportionality — with its focus on less-restrictive alternatives — had to be adhered to. Unfortunately, however, even after saying all of this, SC once again refused to assess the restrictions on the touchstone of constitutional standards. Instead, it constituted yet another committee to review the restrictions. But this committee was set up under the aegis of the ministry of home affairs (MHA), which was the body responsible for imposing the restrictions in the first place. SC justified this decision by observing that in “ordinary times” the arguments of the petitioners would have had to be given serious consideration, but that because of the threat of terrorism in Kashmir, special considerations had to apply. This reasoning, however, is problematic. What it effectively means — even though SC did not spell it out — is that at any given time, the people of J&K are not entitled to the same rights and freedoms that the Constitution grants to Indian citizens elsewhere. In other words, it is cross-border terrorism and Pakistan’s actions that determine the rights of the people of J&K, and not the Constitution — even though only recently, and with great fanfare, the Constitution had been “extended” to J&K after the effective abrogation of Article 370. And most disappointing, SC continued to refuse to engage with the basic arguments that the Internet is an essential condition of human life that cannot be cut off by states at will, and that in any event, restricting the Internet has no tangible impact on terrorism (Kashmir’s history — and events after the effective abrogation of Article 370 — will attest to this fact). As raised by several people elsewhere, the continued treatment of Kashmir as a “special case” where a lower threshold of rights is justified, undermines the constitutional vision of equal protection and equal treatment. It is now to be hoped that when MHA committee considers the issue, the principles laid out by SC in both its judgments will be taken seriously, and 4G Internet restored promptly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/sc-has-not-lived-up-to-its-own-principles-in-j-k/story-Ff71vyXZdI9kLcVFewi6YM.html
