09-06-2020||News||In India and the US, a tale of two rights movements, writes Salman Khurshid||For people who admire the world’s oldest democracy, the developments in the United States (US) have caused considerable concern. If President Donald Trump’s politics remains perplexing, the latest public outburst on the merciless killing of a black man, George Floyd, came as a frightening validation of the thesis that democracy is in deep trouble. To think that four years after President Barack Obama’s comforting tenure, to quote from William Butler Yeats’ Second Coming, “things fall apart, the centre cannot hold, and mere anarchy is loosed upon the world”.But there is a bright light yet in the spontaneous kneeling gesture of the Miami police to apologise for the inhuman conduct of a killer in uniform. Nations do not have unexceptional goodness. But if they know how to swiftly contain moral aberrations and encourage acts of forgiveness and reconciliation, such as the Miami police exhibited, one’s faith and confidence in democracy is preserved. What happened in Minneapolis is wrong, and even in a divided society, white supremacists have been silenced, and liberals across colour and communities have been openly arguing that “black lives matter”. Curiously, some Bollywood stars, who seem unmoved by recent events in India, have joined the US chorus for justice.As protests over Floyd’s death intensified in the US, social media was flooded with posts on police brutality. However, amid the news of rioting, tear-gas and baton charge, there were also reports of police personnel in Miami joining the protesters’ cause and apologising for the brutality. Police forces at several places laid down their shields and helmets to express solidarity with those speaking out against racism and for human rights, while some knelt before the demonstrators.But here, at home, some courts have not found the time to seek an explanation for the police brutality writ large, but heartlessly shrouded in the exigencies of the Covid-19 lockdown. Jamia Millia Islamia awaits justice for brutal assaults on protesting students on two separate occasions in the wake of anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) protests, despite the university management having publicly complained of the unwarranted conduct of the police. Far from reaching out to the aggrieved student body, the police have issued notices to dozens of them and arrested several under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) or Indian Penal Code to begin with, and immediately, if granted bail, under UAPA a period of incarceration without bail.The State might well be able to inflict unnecessary pain upon these young persons, even derail their career prospects, but hopefully will not crush their spirit and commitment to democracy and freedom. The State has a solemn duty to intervene wherever there is even a hint of suspicion about any person working to undermine national integrity. There can be no cavil with that proposition. But there is a difference between the State and the government of the day. Vigorous opposition of the latter cannot remotely be an anti-State posture. Much evil has been done in history in the name of State security. We see the same happening today in India. If people and institutions fail to step in to expose this, this will amount to a situation when history is retold.Unable to support wild charges of sedition, the investigation officers are reportedly browbeating innocent political activists to surrender to their will and give evidence against their colleagues. This is a gross violation of human rights under the very nose of the top courts in the capital. Similar infractions of the law in Uttar Pradesh (UP) were brought to the notice of the National Human Rights Commission by the Congress’ general secretary, Priyanka Gandhi, several weeks ago, but there has been no forward movement. The pain is now, but the panacea will come at some distant moment, and that too if the truth prevails.Although the ostensible object of the investigation launched by the special cell of Delhi Police is to get to the bottom of what they claim is a “larger conspiracy” to create civil unrest at the time of Trump’s New Delhi visit, the focus seems to be on Jamia and Shaheen Bagh. People are being asked why they participated or organised the anti-CAA protests and how they were connected. The Northeast riots are used to conveniently blame the violence on innocent persons.Despite attempts to create a misleading narrative that includes the home minister telling Parliament how proud he was of the Delhi Police bringing the violence under control within 48 hours, the fact remains that former Supreme Court judges took public transport to visit the affected areas and pointed out clear dereliction of duty by the police. The harsh comments made by Justice S Muralidhar of the Delhi High Court before he was suddenly transferred to Chandigarh, the unequivocal concern expressed by a trial court in remand proceedings that the “investigation was targeted to one end”, and another high court judge granting bail to an accused by stating that jail was for convicted prisoners and not under-trials, all point to a serious disquiet in the judiciary. But we are also a witness to government law officers speaking of high courts running a parallel government even as the government rewards them with engagements such as special public prosecutors. The months ahead will be a serious contest between the rule of law and the ruse of law.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/in-india-and-the-us-a-tale-of-two-rights-movements/story-rFAlg2aidkvM8Ah2JY8rXM.html
09-06-2020||News||South Asia must now build resilient supply chains | Analysis||The outbreak of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic has brought about new opportunities for regional cooperation in South Asia. On March 15, Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi organised a regional conference with the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (Saarc) leaders and set up an emergency fund of $10 million to fight the pandemic. A senior official-level meeting was held on March 26 to frame mechanisms to further health cooperation. The region is also witnessing cooperation at a bilateral level, with Bangladesh supplying food and medical equipment to Maldives, and India stepping up its medical assistance to the region.Many commentators envisage that there will be a decline in globalisation and relative strengthening of regional supply chains. Geography will assume an important role in supply chains, with the proximity of production centres weighing equally against conventional elements such as facility, labour, and transportation time and cost. India, in particular (and largely the South Asian region), is foreseen to benefit from this for two reasons — one, it is expected that several firms moving out of China will look at India as a potential destination, and two, India’s importance as a market for its neighbouring countries will also increase. While the shifting focus on localisation of global supply chains provides an opportunity for the region to become better integrated economically, there are existing challenges that must be addressed.In the recent Brookings India report, India’s Limited Trade Connectivity with South Asia, we have mapped the trends in India’s low trade connectivity with the region, the gaps that need to be addressed, and recommendations for increasing trade in the region. Despite huge potential, intra-regional trade in South Asia is among the lowest in the world at 5% (World Bank). To date, India’s trade with the region has ranged between 1.7% to 3.8% of its global trade. China has steadily increased its exports to the region from $8 billion in 2005 to $52 billion in 2018. As a result, only Afghanistan, Nepal and Bhutan now have a higher trade share with India as compared to that with China. However, India continues to be an important market for all its neighbouring countries, except Myanmar and Pakistan.The pandemic created both supply and demand-side shocks to global trade. A recent report by the Economist Intelligence Unit shows that companies with localised industries and supply chains were able to mitigate the shocks better.Recently, PM Modi also stressed on self-reliance while emphasising on bolstering India’s supply chains. South Asian economies, particularly the small and medium enterprises in the region, can benefit from strengthening regional supply chains. The relatively younger population of the region and a rising middle-class, is well placed to supply workforce for labour-intensive production and generate demand for goods and services, respectively. To achieve better regional integration, there are several steps that South Asian countries can take.First, supply chains can only be strengthened if protectionism in the region is reduced to facilitate the flow of goods and services across borders. This includes the reduction of both tariff and non-tariff barriers to trade. This can be done either through the revision of the free trade agreements or unilaterally by India. India’s health exports in particular — such as medical devices, surgical equipment, and pharmaceuticals — are beneficial to the neighbourhood.Second, cross-border logistics and infrastructure must be improved for supply chains to be economical. The region also lacks seamless end-to-end connectivity, has high logistics cost and inadequate infrastructure for warehousing. Over the last few years, there has been a focus on improving infrastructure at trade ports in the region — approximately six Land Customs Stations (LCS) have been upgraded to Integrated Check Posts with 13 more in the pipeline, connectivity infrastructure with Nepal and Bangladesh (rail, road, pipelines and inland waterways) has increased in number, and air connectivity with Sri Lanka has grown with the operationalisation of Jaffna airport. Despite this, there is a need for South Asian countries to focus on reducing logistics barriers.Third, the pandemic has shown the importance of digitisation. As sanitation measures increase in cross-border movements, there is a need to increase investment in digital infrastructure to reduce human interactions. The digitisation of documentation and installation of radio frequency identification at land ports are some of the measures that can be explored.India’s dominant presence in South Asia necessitates that it must take steps to strengthen cooperation, build resilient supply chains and support economic recovery in its neighbouring countries. The pandemic has provided an opportunity for India to reverse its sluggish trade with the region. Since regional markets are easier to connect than global markets, India is seen as an attractive market by its neighbours; Bangladesh, for example, has shown interest in connecting with the Northeast. By optimising its strategic location in South Asia and its availability of labour and a growing middle class to generate supply and demand of goods and services, India has immense potential to attract investments and make itself an export-led economy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/south-asia-must-now-build-resilient-supply-chains/story-u1Uv8SzbcVnfpbwhtYNVxK.html
09-06-2020||News||A three-fold test for new legislations | Analysis||Governments are on a law-making spree. When legislatures are not in session, as is currently the case, India’s Constitution empowers the government to make laws through executive action. The central government has made ten new laws in the last two months. Four were made recently. Two of these are new legislations which aim is to give a “boost to rural India and agriculture”. The third protects companies from insolvency proceedings for defaulting on their financial commitments after March 25. The last one gives power to the government to regulate the supply of food items like cereals, oils, pulses in extraordinary circumstances.Indian statute books are overflowing with more than 6,000 laws passed by the Centre and state governments. They are the preferred tool for problem-solving for all governments. But laws are also blunt instruments which have a large impact. So the use of laws for governance intervention raises three key questions.First, how well are these laws made? Effective laws are the outcome of a robust law-making process. Over the years, both the government and Parliament have tried to bring about more rigour to this process. But not all laws go through a standardised process of law-making. Some laws sail through the process, bypassing multiple layers of scrutiny. Ordinances, which are laws made by the government to deal with an emergent situation when Parliament is not in session (such as those mentioned above) are one such example. They are rarely sent to a parliamentary committee for examination. But the rationale for their existence, ie to tackle an emergent situation, makes it critical they be scrutinised carefully and in a timely manner by Parliament. More so when these are brand new laws or significant amendments to existing legislations.The second question is whether these laws accomplish their intended purpose. Take for example the Inter-State Migrant Workmen Act, 1979. Its purpose is to prevent the exploitation of migrant workers. It starts by admitting that “the provisions of the various labour laws are not being observed in their case and they are subjected to various malpractices”. Another example is the law to eliminate the inhuman practice of manual scavenging. The 2013 Bill that was enacted into law admitted that a previous law made 20 years ago was ineffective. Clearly, making a law is no guarantee that it will solve a problem.After the initial excitement of passing a new law wanes, it seems to be forgotten on our statute books. There are no regular checks to ensure that it is working well on the ground, and whether there is a need for revising the law. In 2019, in a public lecture, Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu stressed on the importance of post-legislative impact assessment of laws. A parliamentary committee headed by Rajya Sabha Member of Parliament Bhupender Yadav is currently examining how the evaluation of laws can be done to measure their impact. The report of this committee will be instrumental in reducing the gap between the intent of laws and their implementation.The last question with respect to laws is whether their use is appropriate in a particular situation. In the 1960s, two American academics Kaplam and Maslow popularised the phrase, “If all you have is a hammer, everything looks like a nail.” Also termed as the law of the instrument, the axiom is a reference to the overreliance on a familiar tool, irrespective of its suitability to solve a problem.A recent example is the use of laws to address complex issues thrown up by the coronavirus pandemic. The closing down of commercial establishments after the first lockdown left a large number of workers with no source of livelihood. To address the problem, the government directed employers to pay full wages to workers for the lockdown period. With little to no earnings during the lockdown, businesses themselves were facing financial trouble. They petitioned the Supreme Court, which directed the government not to take action against them.With workers unable to make ends meet, they started heading back to their home states. When the lockdown was eased, commercial establishments slowly started opening up. But, by then, there was a shortage of workers. To address this problem, state governments allowed factories to increase their working hours to 12 hours a day.The thought process was that fewer individuals could work for longer hours to make up for the shortage of workers. In hindsight, perhaps these legal measures on their own were not appropriate to address the distress faced by workers and businesses.The pandemic has led to calls for creating new laws to deal with the unprecedented situation. But for laws to be effective, they cannot be a simple exercise on paper. They have to be carefully made, regularly sharpened and judiciously used.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/a-three-fold-test-for-new-legislations/story-SasESZdEN6zdM3Cw2lRKMK.html
