11-06-2020||News||Covid-19 has opened the doors for Gov Tech 3.0 | Analysis||Technology and collaboration are the mantras that many hope will help the world turn the tide against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The public health ecosystem has demonstrated unprecedented collaboration among scientists, governments and medical companies, sharing everything from epidemiological data to software and design files to develop a vaccine and manufacture-testing equipment.Could this crisis be the trigger for a new era of technology collaboration among citizens, businesses and governments to solve the gravest problems of our times? The initial signs are promising. Governments are deploying technology in newer innovative and collaborative ways. For example, many countries, including India, have deployed contact tracing apps developed through public-private partnerships, to prevent the spread of the virus, and are crowd-sourcing relevant information from citizens. Private companies, such as taxi aggregators, are opening up their tech platforms to help the government fight the crisis by tracking crowds in real-time.This crisis seems to have become a laboratory for the dawn of a new era of what we will call Gov Tech 3.0. While 1.0 was the era of “computerisation” of manual processes such as putting income tax forms online, 2.0 was about building systems which digitised end-to-end processes, for example, the government’s “e-office” file management system. GovTech 3.0 is focussed on Open Digital Ecosystems (ODEs), the underlying philosophy of which is for governments to move away from being a builder of end-to-end tech solutions towards becoming a facilitator by creating digital infrastructure on which innovators can collaboratively build solutions for the public good.A good analogy to understand this shift is the physical infrastructure of cities. Building “commons” is done by the government through public funding and engagement. This includes the construction of roads, drainage systems, parks and mass transit systems. If built and governed well, this is the “platform” on which businesses and individuals then create the vibrant ecosystem of activities that make up our urban life and are visible to us as we interact and transact with others in the city. Similarly, the ODE approach suggests that the government should focus on creating the “digital commons”; enable interoperability between siloed systems, so that innovators can build solutions on top, by leveraging what technologists call open-source software, open standards, and open Application Programming Interface (APIs).Several path-breaking ODEs are already in play in India: Unified Payments Interface (UPI) in the financial services space; the National Digital Health Blueprint that imagines a radically different public health ecosystem; the National Digital Infrastructure for Teachers called DIKSHA; the National Urban Innovation Stack which is enabling more efficient provision of municipal services; and a digital ecosystem for agriculture which is being designed by an inter-ministerial committee.In the wake of Covid-19, we can take this thinking further. For example, could we create a “social protection ODE”, through which migrant workers can access State benefits irrespective of where they are? This could be enabled through an interoperable tech architecture connecting disparate state and department tech systems and apps, built by innovators, enabling migrants to get real-time information about and access to their entitlements.ODEs are not just a different way of delivering government services — they are a different way of imagining the citizen-State relationship. ODEs enable the rapid scaling of solutions, through modular technology-building blocks, that can be deployed in multiple contexts by ensuring interoperability across platforms. This can shift the balance of power in favour of citizens.While ODEs empower and enable collaboration in unprecedented ways, many worry that such interconnected digital networks may make us more vulnerable to harm, with dispersed accountability and possible violation of individual privacy. These concerns are heightened when the power of digital platforms is combined with the coercive power of the State. In the Covid-19 context, we see that in some countries, mobile phone location data, thermal imaging drones, and cyber tech normally used in counterterrorism, are being integrated and deployed for surveillance of citizens. The curtailment of personal freedoms may be acceptable to the public during a crisis, but the worry is that once such technology is out there, it may be impossible to roll it back.This issue — that with high-stakes benefits come high-stakes risks— is central to the ODE debate. Designing privacy-protecting and secure databases is critical. The invisible rules that are coded into “tech” need to be made transparent through thoughtful design principles, legislation, governance frameworks and public engagement. For example, having accountable institutions behind these ODEs, and robust grievance redressal mechanisms is critical for their success. Making sure the design is citizen-centric and ensures inclusive access to services at the last mile will help drive adoption and sustain these ecosystems.A recent government white paper put out on mygov.in has invited public consultation on some of these critical open questions around National ODEs. The design choices India makes today, not just in terms of the technology and data architecture, but also in terms of governance architecture and community engagement around ODEs, will determine how we collaborate to build a more resilient and empowered India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/covid-19-has-opened-the-doors-for-gov-tech-3-0/story-Gogbtg00bYrwyrxreMKUQI.html
11-06-2020||News||Why defections continue to cast a shadow on politics | Opinion||It’s election season again, this time to fill 55 Rajya Sabha (RS) seats. These elections are usually not interesting as they proceed from the results of past assembly elections. It is the parties’ strength in the states concerned that determine how many seats they get to fill. So the results are known in advance. But in recent times, RS polls have been marked by uncertainty, as some parties engage in horse-trading to change the composition of assemblies in their favour. As I write this column, the Congress in Gujarat is busy corralling its Members of the Legislative Assembly (MLAs) in a resort, as eight MLAs have succumbed to the charms of induced retirement, putting their party’s second seat in RS in jeopardy. It is a worrying trend in Indian politics that parties can induce legislators to abandon ship so easily and without consequence, which amounts to altering the people’s verdict. On March 20, the Kamal Nath-led government in Madhya Pradesh fell, having lost its majority after 22 of its MLAs resigned, following Jyotiraditya Scindia’s decision to join the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). This was the fourth time in as many years that the Congress lost a state due to defections. In February last year, in Karnataka, 14 Congress and three Janata Dal (Secular) MLAs resigned, precipitating the downfall of the 14-month-old coalition led by HD Kumaraswamy. In July, 10 of the 15 remaining Congress MLAs announced their resignation in the Goa assembly and merged with the BJP. A similar scenario took place in Manipur in 2017. Despite having emerged as the single-largest party, the Congress was outmanoeuvered by the BJP which cobbled together a coalition, backed by Congress defectors who had joined it ahead of the election. This is not a recent phenomenon. In a book published in 1974, Subhash Kashyap recalled that in the 1967-71 four-year period, 142 defections took place in Parliament, and as many as 1969 defections took place in state assemblies across the country, causing the downfall of 32 state governments (statistics available on a PRS report). He further observed that 212 of these defectors had been subsequently rewarded with ministerial positions. In Karnataka, last year, ten of the eleven defectors who won their by-election on a BJP ticket were offered cabinet positions. In recent years, the BJP has benefited the most from such defections. But data shows that the dominant party is not always the favoured destination of choice for defectors. In the late 1960s, most defectors were from the Congress. In the general election of 1977, the Bharatiya Lok Dal ran 94 turncoat candidates, including 21 from the Congress. Many of them migrated back to the Congress once it became clear that Indira Gandhi was set to win the 1980 elections. Those large-scale political migrations, according to Kashyap, were the reason the anti-defection law was passed in 1985 by Rajiv Gandhi. It is not hard to guess the motivation behind these defections and the role of parties in inducing them. But all these defections are not merely the sum of the opportunism and individual ambitions of legislators. They also reveal the troubles that brew within political parties. Contrary to what one may expect, defectors are not necessarily newcomers or professional weathercocks who contest under multiple party labels. At least half of the recent Congress defectors were seasoned politicians, some former party heads or ministers. The fact that the Congress loses old-timers is a powerful signal of its organisational disarray. Despite winning state elections, the party remains vulnerable to poaching by the BJP, which remains unchallenged at the national level. In recent years, political parties in India have undergone at least two transformations. The first is campaign professionalisation. Parties use data platforms that enable them to reach out directly to their workers at the village level. The second is an increase in the concentration of power in the high commands of parties. This has been a process nurtured by the growing personalisation of politics and the increased reliance on direct modes of communication. As a result, MLAs who used to play an important role of mediation in and outside their organisation have been made almost redundant. This causes a great deal of frustration and discontent. And when the party they belong to suffers from a vacancy of leadership and offer little prospects of future electoral gains, it is not surprising that many MLAs jump ship. While this might seem a problem that the Congress has to grapple with, the trend of undoing governments through defections is problematic for two reasons. First, it shows that the anti-defection law no longer serves its main purpose of preventing government instability when a dominant party, which loses an election, seeks to convert it into a victory. And second, the practice of bringing duly-elected governments down through horse-trading makes a complete joke of whatever legitimacy or meaning is left of electoral mandates. Accepting defeat and respecting the people’s choice is a strong marker of a healthy democracy. Contriving to reverse the outcome of elections undermines it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/why-defections-continue-to-cast-a-shadow-on-politics/story-4Fs0vOMzmpBX9YVYiadMsL.html
11-06-2020||News||A blueprint to improve health systems in cities | Opinion||History is replete with examples of disease outbreaks altering cities and changing lives. In 1849, a cholera outbreak in New York’s congested clusters prompted it to recalibrate its infrastructure. In 1994, Surat’s municipal corporation played a key role in overhauling its sanitary and hygiene systems after the city was hit by the plague. The coronavirus disease (Covid-19) has again reminded the country that strong and resilient health systems act as the first line of defence, not only against outbreaks but in meeting everyday health challenges.It has underscored the weaknesses, inequities and dearth of investment in urban health infrastructure and serious issues of governance. The pandemic has taken its roots in cities and proven to be the single-most potent disruptive force to the “engines of economic growth”. States with a higher proportion of urban populations are driving up the numbers. In India, while efforts have been made to create tertiary care facilities at the district level, little has been done to reform municipal bodies in urban areas. It is important to distinguish between the two. Having directed the efforts towards rural India, today the country is faced with the reality of urban health care. About 60% of all hospitalisations in urban India are in the private sector, all of which may not be fully regulated in small, urban slum settlements. While the National Rural Health Mission (NRHM, 2005) was able to address some critical challenges in rural health care, India’s cities continue to struggle under the high burden of diseases.During this crisis, a stronger and tiered structure of primary health services in cities could have served as the first points of testing and care, alleviating some of the burden on tertiary systems. While the human and economic cost of this crisis cannot be stressed on enough, it is important that we consolidate the learnings and restructure the system. Here are a set of reforms. One, the National Urban Health Mission (2013) was launched to bring primary health services within the reach of the urban poor. Between 2015-16 and 2017-18, modest progress was achieved under this programme, though its potential remains untapped. Now is an opportune time to revisit the programme. Having a strong network of primary and community health centres in cities, as in rural India, can lead to more equitable health outcomes.Two, we need to rethink the Smart Cities Mission. Launched with the objective of promoting cities that provide core infrastructure, currently, building health infrastructure is a low priority in the 100 such cities being developed. A closer scrutiny of data of projects taken up under the mission reveals that only 69 of the 5,861 projects were for health infrastructure and capacity-building — this works out to a little over 1% of the total projects selected since 2015. This is an opportunity to recalibrate this scheme and build sustainable cities, better equipped to handle disease outbreaks. Three, we must remember the linkages between health and other determinants. Families in informal settlements lack a consistent supply of clean water and soap and rely on ill-maintained community toilets and shared taps. With nearly half of Mumbai’s population living in squalid conditions that are emerging as clusters for Covid-19, Maharashtra has the highest burden of the disease in the country. The Swachh Bharat Mission has been able to drive shared understanding about the benefits of sanitation – we must expand on this. Even the Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation can be leveraged better to ensure proper infrastructure and improved sanitation channels and networks in cities. Similarly, we can link efforts with initiatives like the National Clean Air Programme (2019), that align policies against air pollution with those under the country’s climate change plan.Four, we must leverage the strong digital infrastructure. There are many examples of how cities are doing so during the pandemic — including the Agra Smart City Mission’s e-Doctor Seva, a tele-video consultation facility, launched as a public-private partnership. In Chandigarh, there are “fight Covid stations” with thermal screening, pedestal operated hand-wash, soap dispensers. Recent telemedicine guidelines issued by ministry of health and family welfare in collaboration with Niti Aayog and the Medical Council of India, provide for an excellent opportunity to enable health care delivery to the urban poor even beyond the lockdown period. With such use of digital technology, we can manage health facilities more effectively, and ensure better disease surveillance and data collection.And finally, given the high proportion of patients seeking care in the private sector, it’s important to harness its large pool of resources so that more people can access quality services. More public private partnerships can ensure better regulation and monitoring so that protocols are followed. As per a Boston Consulting Group estimate (2017), about 40% of India’s population will be living in urban areas by 2025. It is imperative that the government re-imagines these spaces to meet the needs of the people. By building or upgrading infrastructure, including a trained workforce, it cannot only address epidemics, but also provide quality health care. India’s has the framework, it must act on it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/a-blueprint-to-improve-health-systems-in-cities/story-4xsLYoxIxSsdL1slmXGUNN.html
11-06-2020||News||A post-Covid-19 social protection architecture for India||The lockdown to slow the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) has inflicted a heavy cost on India’s poor. Most have seen their incomes fall; many have seen their families uprooted; some have even lost their lives. On moral grounds alone, there is a strong case for augmenting spending on social protection for the poor, and the Government of India has taken some important first steps in this regard. However, more can and should be done, because spending on social protection is not only ethically desirable but also critical for driving the broader economic recovery. A core theme in economics is that there is a trade-off between welfare programmes and efficiency. Yet, a growing body of research suggests that when people are very poor, there may be no such trade-off. Thus, a well-designed social protection architecture should not be seen as charity, but a key engine for economic growth. Schemes such as the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS), public distribution system (PDS), and a modest universal income transfer can drive growth by boosting demand, correcting market failures, improving credit access, and providing the insurance needed for people to undertake risky investments to improve productivity. The value of MGNREGS and PDSThese facts are evident in research on India’s two main pillars of social protection — MGNREGS for employment security, and PDS for food security (that cost 0.5% and 1% of GDP respectively). Many sceptics of MGNREGS (including myself) initially thought that the programme was not a good use of public funds. In addition to concerns about corruption and leakage, many economists were worried about the prospect of MGNREGS driving up wages without increasing productivity, thereby reducing market employment.However, high-quality evidence using a large-scale randomised evaluation has found that improving MGNREGS implementation (by reducing leakage, payment delays and uncertainty) led to a substantial reduction in rural poverty. Importantly, only 10% of the income gains were from additional MGNREGS income. The majority of the impact came through an increase in both market wages and employment of the rural poor. One reason is that when employers have high market power (which we find evidence of), programmes such as the MGNREGS can correct pre-existing market failures and increase both wages and employment. We also find longer-term benefits, including increases in credit, assets, number of non-agricultural enterprises, and employment in these enterprises. Thus, improving wages and incomes of the poor, through social protection, can have large positive multiplier effects on the economy.Similarly, recent research has found that PDS can insulate the poor from price fluctuations of food grains, and increase the proportion of the population that can reach minimum nutrition standards. Given the well-documented link between nutrition and productivity for labour-intensive tasks, PDS is likely contributes not only to food security, but also to boosting the productivity of the poor.Thus, the government’s decision to increase the budgets for MGNREGS and PDS make a lot of sense since the benefits likely exceed the costs. Crucially, the existence of these two pillars provided the government with a rapidly implementable option for expanding social protection to mitigate the costs of the lockdown. For instance, phone-surveys in the last two months indicate that increased PDS allowances have been an important lifeline for those who have lost their jobs and income.But economic recovery and India’s development will need more. The time is right to add a third social protection pillar, based on modest but near-universal income transfers that will promote both public welfare and an economic recovery.A third pillar: An Inclusive Growth DividendThere has been growing support for the idea of Direct Benefit Transfers (DBT) of income into beneficiary bank accounts, including a prominent call for a Universal Basic Income (UBI) in the 2016-17 Economic Survey. These calls have been amplified during the current crisis. A UBI-type approach will minimise targeting costs and exclusion errors, reduce administrative cost of implementation, and offer flexible benefits. Importantly, several studies have shown that income transfers help the poor greatly and that they spend the money productively (and not on alcohol or temptation goods as commonly believed).Yet, the idea of UBI has not gained policy traction in India, in part because the amounts suggested have been prohibitively expensive (ranging from 3.5% to 10% of GDP). To make a poverty-eliminating UBI fiscally feasible, many proponents suggest replacing existing welfare schemes (including NREGS and PDS) with UBI. However, this is politically difficult and may not even be desirable given the benefits documented above. A more feasible option to deliver the social protection benefits of income transfers is to decrease the value of the transfer and implement it as a supplement rather than a substitute to existing programmes. One concrete implementable idea that I have proposed in an essay with Paul Niehaus and Sandip Sukhtankar, and in a more detailed paper with Maitreesh Ghatak, is an “Inclusive Growth Dividend (IGD)” pegged at 1% of GDP (Rs 120/month at current levels). The amount will be paid as a monthly supplement to every Indian, with allowances for children paid into mother’s accounts. While this will take some administrative work, the investments in Aadhaar and Jan Dhan accounts in recent years make it feasible to implement IGD in the near future. Though this is a universal income transfer, we called it an IGD because it differs from UBI in important ways. Unlike “basic income”, which connotes an amount that is enough to live on, “dividend” clarifies that this is one component of a portfolio of people’s income streams. “Inclusive growth” reflects the goals of universality, progressivity, and shared prosperity. Since the amount is the same for all citizens, the value of the IGD is much greater for the poor, but it is a shared benefit for the entire population that will grow with the overall economy.An IGD could be transformative for India in several ways. Even at the modest value of Rs 120/month (or Rs 500/month for a typical household), it would meaningfully reduce poverty — augmenting consumption for the poorest 50% of the population by over 10%, and for the poorest 10% by 20%. Since mothers would receive allowances on behalf of their children, IGD would sharply improve female empowerment and agency — especially in rural India. It would directly contribute to universal financial inclusion by activating dormant Jan Dhan accounts, and allowing the poor to accumulate savings. It would also promote access to credit at lower interest rates (since creditworthiness will improve as a result of predictable cash flows), and increase the ability of the poor to make productivity-enhancing but risky investments (such as planting a new crop) by providing some consumption insurance. An IGD also has many advantages relative to alternative designs that aim to deliver larger income transfers to fewer (poorer) people. First, it avoids targeting costs and reduces the risks of mistargeting. Second, the IGD amount is meaningful enough to mitigate poverty, but too small to adversely affect work incentives. Third, targeted programmes have to be phased out as people earn more, which creates disincentives to work because of the loss of benefits. There is no such problem with an IGD. Finally, sociological evidence suggests that non-beneficiaries strongly resent welfare programmes that reverse the income ranking of people in a community. An IGD elegantly avoids the last two challenges by being universal and lifting all boats equally. Successfully implementing an IGD will have the added benefit of augmenting both the capacity and credibility of the Indian State. Delivering an IGD every month will represent the first time that the Indian State has reliably delivered a benefit to every citizen. On its own, this will be a signature achievement. More importantly, the capacity to do so will dramatically increase the policy options available to the government to respond to future scenarios. The current moment of nationwide economic hardship is especially appropriate for an IGD. Historically, times of economic hardship have been associated with an increase in social strife and conflict as people compete over a shrinking economic pie. An IGD can mitigate this strife and serve as a powerful symbol of social solidarity that all Indians experience together regardless of their station (an option for the wealthy to “give it up” could add to the solidarity). Driving economic growthIn addition to protecting the vulnerable, a stronger social protection architecture will build the platform for a broader economic recovery. The government’s current economic strategy for businesses has largely focused on expanding credit access for micro, small, and medium enterprises (MSMEs). While the approach is fiscally prudent, this strategy is missing one critical element: Measures to boost demand. Even with credit guarantees, firms are unlikely to hire workers and ramp up production unless there is adequate demand in the economy. Commentators such as Haresh Chawla and Rathin Roy have highlighted that India’s economic performance over the past two decades has been a top-down growth story. Specifically, the top 5-10% of the population earns enough to drive consumption. This demand trickles down to sustain the next 30-40% working in smaller (mostly informal) enterprises, while the bottom 50% leads a hand-to-mouth existence. By putting more money in the hands of the poor, an IGD could help reverse this pattern and provide a bottom-up boost to the economy. Not only will it increase income, it will also provide predictability of future income — a key driver for demand. Recent evidence on unconditional income transfers provided to entire communities in Kenya finds an economic multiplier of 2.7. More generally, both theory and evidence suggest that a broader consumption base promotes economic development by allowing firms to recover the fixed costs of investing in more productive capital and technology. Thus, while the government may be wary of making additional fiscal commitments at a time of shrinking revenues, an IGD is likely to have a substantial multiplier effect on the economy by boosting domestic demand, and thereby deliver a high public return on investment. Another way in which social protection can contribute to growth is through supporting migration. The heart-rending scenes of migrants travelling back to their villages have led many to call for reducing migration. Though well-intentioned, this will be a mistake because reducing migration hurts both workers and employers. Throughout the world, cities are engines of growth and migration to cities the most common pathway out of poverty.Thus, the appropriate policy response to the migrant crisis is to build a stronger social protection architecture that is nationally portable. Having a portable PDS and IGD in place (and augmenting allowances before the lockdown) could have prevented the crisis of return migration by providing migrant workers means to sustain themselves during the job-losses caused by lockdown. The Government of India has correctly prioritised the implementing of nationwide PDS portability, which will strengthen this key pillar of social protection. An IGD will add a crucial component of flexible income support — especially since PDS grains alone are not enough to survive with no other income. Research in recent years has shown that even modest income support to the rural poor can sharply increase their overall productivity and income by covering the search costs of finding better opportunities. Thus, a portable IGD is likely to boost both incomes and aggregate productivity by empowering workers to seek the best possible livelihood in any part of the country. Creating a win-winThe prime minister’s stated goal of “Sab Ka Saath, Sab Ka Vikaas, Sab Ka Vishwaas” is a laudable one. Yet, translating this ideal into practice is not easy. An IGD provides a practical and implementable way of doing so through its combination of universality (sabka saath; with everyone), promoting broad-based development (sabka vikaas; universal progress), and building public confidence in the government by credibly delivering a benefit to every Indian every month (sabka vishwaas; for everyone’s trust). A key policy goal in responding to the hardship caused by Covid-19 and the lockdown imposed to slow its spread should be to both support the economy and the vulnerable in the short run, and promote long-term development goals. An IGD-led nationally-portable social protection architecture will do exactly this. It will support the poor, give them the means and confidence to migrate to better job opportunities, boost demand and productivity, help the economy recover, build social solidarity and state capacity, and lay the foundations for broad-based long-term prosperity. Karthik Muralidharan is the Tata Chancellor’s Professor of Economics at UC San Diego. Vishnu Padmanabhan contributed to this piece.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/a-post-covid-19-social-protection-architecture-for-india/story-BCt1POzFojnKloCkHTsv9H.html
