20-06-2020||News||Covid-19: Why home isolation is a critical pillar||As mildly symptomatic Covid-19 patients under home isolation, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led central government’s initial decision to end home isolation on Friday was puzzling, and its roll back of the order on Saturday is welcome. A mandatory five-day institutional quarantine for all new Covid-19 patients, as originally ordered, would have been unprecedented. Nowhere in the world do governments force every coronavirus patient into public isolation facilities. Even the Indian Council of Medical Research guidelines recommend home isolation for most cases, given that 80% of the patients are either asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic.It is important to understand the system in place now. Our experience of home isolation has been beneficial for our health and well-being. Our samples were collected on Tuesday and we tested positive for coronavirus on Wednesday. Fortunately, we had no severe symptoms and did not need hospitalisation. That same day we received a phone call from a government telemedicine service that offered medical advice. An ASHA worker visited our homes, confirmed we were mildly symptomatic patients and pasted a sticker next to our main doors, giving neighbours fair warning. From the second day onwards, our health and symptoms were being monitored daily through the Delhi government’s tele-monitoring service that also provided guidance on the isolation process. An emergency phone number was also given to us to be called if our symptoms were to escalate. An ambulance would take us to a hospital if we were to report any escalation in symptoms.In one go, on Friday, the Centre shut down the most smoothly functioning piece of the coronavirus puzzle that is home isolation. One of the lessons of governance the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has learnt is — do not fix something that is not broken. The roll back of the order is good because it would have otherwise created new problems for the city and its government, dealing a deadly blow to containment efforts in Delhi. The thought of being dragged into a railway coach parked at the Anand Vihar station upon testing positive would have driven away people from voluntarily coming forward to test themselves. And if asymptomatic and mildly symptomatic patients refuse testing and carry on with their lives, they would have ended up infecting others.Compulsory quarantine would have also needed additional resources, diverting medical staff, ambulances, and personal protective equipment kits away from hospitals that are treating critical patients. An already stretched medical system would have been forced to look after thousands of patients who may have never needed medical attention. The cost of providing hygienic quarantine facilities, food, water and sanitation to thousands of patients would have proved debilitating to the cash-strapped state government. Delhi is expected to have hundreds of thousands of cases over the next few weeks. The state should focus its efforts and resources on treating the sick, not providing shelter and food to asymptomatic and mildly symptomatic patients. The data on Delhi’s home isolation programme shows why it is highly recommended around the world. Only 6% of all positive patients under home isolation have been required to be shifted to a hospital or quarantine facility during their home isolation period. Of more than 27,000 patients who have been under home isolation thus far, only 1,618 reported a deterioration in their symptoms and had to be shifted to hospitals. This is 6% of all home isolation patients. We are happy with the roll back of the order because better sense has prevailed. Otherwise, Delhiites would have paid a huge cost.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/covid-19-why-home-isolation-is-a-critical-pillar/story-FyWZlsgwKPIv58jyDSIwUP.html
20-06-2020||News||The diplomatic dance for the horseshoe table||India will serve a two-year term on the United Nations Security Council (UNSC) from January 2021. This will be the nation’s eighth time at UNSC. Other than the Permanent 5 (P-5), UNSC has 10 elected members, five from Asia and Africa, two each from Latin America and Western Europe & Others (WEOG) and one from East Europe. Five of these elected members retire every year. There are five regional groups at UNSC, representing Asia, Africa, Latin America and in a hark-back to the Cold War, Eastern Europe, apart from WEOG that includes the United States (US), Canada, Australia, New Zealand and Israel. Most regional groups, other than WEOG, usually endorse their candidates ahead of the election. This time, we were the candidate for the Asian seat and obtained 182 out of 193 votes in the UN General Assembly. From WEOG, Norway and Ireland knocked out Canada for the group’s two seats.While the election is hotly contested, the election process is fascinating. The ballot is a blank sheet. You are supposed to know who is running, and write in the name of the country of your choice on the ballot. Of course, you can vote for your own country.India last served on the UNSC during 2011-12. The team was led by ambassador Hardeep Singh Puri, now minister in the Narendra Modi government (full disclosure: He is also a cousin). I was his deputy. Then, too, we were the only candidate from Asia and obtained a record 187 votes from 192 members. We had previously been on UNSC in 1991-1992 and were seeking to return after a gap of 19 years and a bruising defeat at the hands of Japan in 1996. India’s effort was to marshal the maximum number of votes.The widely publicised story after the election was of the Pakistani ambassador, Abdullah Hussain Haroon, having shown around his ballot apparently marked in favour of India. There were others who took photos on their phones and showed them to us, signalling their support.We missed five votes. Obviously, some were political. But strange things also happen. One African country received a vote on the Asian slate. Unbelievable, but the Ambassador wrote his own country’s name on the ballot, thinking that he had signed his support for India. Then, too, Canada was bested in the WEOG by Portugal and a late-entrant Germany. A diplomat from a small country told me that while he was awaiting instruction on his two votes, he was sure one would be Germany; after all, his president rode in a Mercedes.Elected members head Security Council committees. The P-5 refer to these as “goodies”. For us, obtaining the Chair of the Counter Terrorism Committee (CTC) was important. Strangely, the British opposed this saying that we were invested in the matter. But, playing the diplomatic game in New York, Delhi and London, India prevailed. During India’s chairmanship, we established the concept of “zero tolerance” for terrorism. Counter-terrorism will rightly be a focus for India during our forthcoming term on UNSC.With multilateralism under pressure, particularly as a result of Covid-19, UNSC, too, has its challenge set. India’s term on UNSC will also coincide with India hosting Brics (Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa) and G-20 summits. India should use the opportunity to push its case on Security Council reform to open up the horseshoe table that seats the UNSC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/the-diplomatic-dance-for-the-horseshoe-table/story-jVuagBGq0BeBLkmcdOyYZL.html
20-06-2020||News||5 reasons why scrapping home isolation of asymptomatic Covid-19 patients in Delhi may not be a good idea||The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) has ordered a mandatory five-day institutional quarantine for all Covid-19 cases, including asymptomatic patients and those with mild signs of the infection. The move could strain the Capital’s health infrastructure, which is already stretched; result in a shortage of health care workers; militate against people getting tested; hamper the detection rate; and throw Delhi’s long-term plan out of gear at a time when infections continue to rise. We look at five principal reasons why it may not be a good idea:1) Overrun health care infrastructureAdding thousands of people in institutional quarantine – 10,490 people were in home quarantine as of Friday night – will require a sudden and steep ramping up of the Capital’s health care infrastructure, increasing the risk of the system being overwhelmed by those being admitted. According to the government’s June 19 bulletin, 5,078 of its 10,961 Covid-19 beds were vacant, and 5,036 beds were available (out of 6,318) in Covid care and health centres. A senior Delhi government official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said that this availability of resources was mainly because of the success of the home quarantine scheme.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage Experts feel that home isolation of asymptomatic and mildly symptomatic patients is a crucial strategy in the fight against the highly infectious disease. “Why unnecessarily burden the health infrastructure that anyway gets overwhelmed when there is surge in cases? Medical beds should be kept for serious patients needing specialised care, otherwise where will you keep your serious patients whose lives we have to save? Home can be the best isolation facility so long as all protocols are followed,” said T Jacob John, the former head of virology at CMC, Vellore.2) Spark a severe staff shortageIf all cases are to be admitted to institutional facilities in the Capital, the authorities will have to find additional doctors, nurses and health workers. HT reported on Wednesday that the plan to add 23,800 beds this month for Covid-19 patients will require roughly 2,000 doctors and 3,000 nursing staff – resources that it has not been able to secure so far. To add to the shortfall, several health care workers testing positive are going into quarantine on coming in direct contact with Covid-19 patients. The government will also find it difficult to draw doctors, nurses and staff from its smaller non-Covid-19 hospitals.The challenge to secure more people has been intensified by the fact that some health workers fear getting infected. “Most of our nurses put down their papers when we were asked to earmark beds for Covid-19. Several other demanded higher salaries, it is not possible to do so in this economy,” said a doctor at a private hospital, asking not to be named. In a statement, the Delhi government said: “Entire manpower of the Delhi government is already stretched. Now, large quarantine centres would need to be made to house thousands of asymptomatic people.”Also read: Delhi health minister Satyendra Jain administered plasma therapy, health condition stable3) People may stop getting testedThe move is also likely to discourage asymptomatic and mildly symptomatic people from undergoing tests. Some feel that moving to institutional quarantine amid a shortage of beds and support staff will mean that the facilities are not up to the mark; they fear this will prompt people to avoid getting tested. Atishi, a legislator from the Kalkaji constituency and a spokesperson of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) who tested positive for Covid-19 two days ago and is currently under home isolation, said it has emotional and psychological benefits. “There is a lot of comfort attached to home isolation compared to institutional quarantine because you have your own room and most importantly, your own washrooms... In home isolation, you have your family to look after you.” She added that if institutional quarantine is made mandatory, then fewer people will opt for testing of Covid-19. “Police, along with medical staff, will come to pick even asymptomatic people up and take them to quarantine centres. People will be scared with all this and many will fear themselves from getting tested,” she said.4) Cases may go undetectedIf fewer people are willing to get tested, the undetected spread from such patients is likely to grow in the Capital. With the detection rate dipping, more people are likely to reach hospitals after their infection has advanced, which could possibly also impact the recovery rate. Experts also point to the risks of infections from crowded quarantine facilities.Home quarantine for patients has been approved by the Union government as an effective way to preserve health care infrastructure for future challenges, under certain guidelines. DDMA, however, said in its order on Friday that it fears “home isolation without physical contact to monitor the patients may be a reason for the increase in the spread of Covid-19 infections in Delhi”.Also read: Kejriwal opposes L-G’s 5-day mandatory institutional quarantine order, says ‘will lead to evasions’5) Long-term strategy takes a hitTo meet the need for around 150,000 beds by the end of July, the Delhi government has planned to use stadiums as makeshift hospitals. It has also identified neighbourhood facilities to meet the need for the beds, according to its prediction of the infection’s peak in the Capital. This strategy, however, was devised on the model which included mild cases being quarantined at home. With the latest guidelines, this plan stands compromised. A member of a committee created to look into the augmentation of Delhi’s health infrastructure previously told HT that the panel’s calculations, based on the Capital’s population and the current model, may have to be reworked and a new strategy may have to be devised. Experts insist that if the guidelines are changed on a regular basis, the projections and modelling of the scenarios will repeatedly need to be revised, creating a challenge for the long-term strategy. They also say that most countries in the world recommend home isolation for mild cases and the latest move by DDMA should be rethought.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/5-reasons-why-scrapping-home-isolation-of-asymptomatic-covid-19-patients-in-delhi-may-not-be-a-good-idea/story-1Myf8EXQysL4YdFQoWza2M.html
20-06-2020||News||Restricting Chinese imports will not be easy||The rising border tensions between India and China in the Galwan Valley took a bloody turn when 20 brave Indian soldiers lost their lives in a military skirmish with China. As strategic affairs experts try to figure out China’s Achilles heel which India can exploit to tame the dragon, the clamour for an economic boycott of China is growing.From an international law point of view, can India can impose restrictions on Chinese imports by, say, revoking China’s most favoured nation (MFN) status in the World Trade Organization (WTO)? In the immediate aftermath of the Pulwama terror attack, last year, in which around 40 Central Reserve Police Force soldiers died, India revoked Pakistan’s MFN status in the WTO. So arguably what is sauce for the goose should be sauce for the gander. Article XXI (b) (iii) of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) allows a WTO member country to take action “which it considers necessary for the protection of its essential security interests taken in time of war or other emergency in international relations”. The current situation between India and China definitely qualifies as an emergency in international relations. Since this standoff also involves safeguarding India’s territorial sovereignty, there is an “essential security interest” at stake.The legal challenge for India, in order to make a successful case under Article XXI, will be to demonstrate that the trade-restrictive measure it adopts during this emergency with regard to China is “necessary” to address the current security situation. Contrary to what many believe, the words, “which it considers” in Article XXI (b) (iii) does not make the provision self-judging. Although India will enjoy significant leeway in determining what constitutes “necessary” measures, these shall be subject to a good faith review. There are two cases in which WTO panels dealing with the national security and defence have affirmed this. These are the Russia-Traffic in Transit case involving Russia and Ukraine and the recently decided case between Qatar and Saudi Arabia.Therefore, in order to show that the measure adopted is “necessary”, India has to prove two things. First, that India genuinely believes that adopting the measure (say reneging on an MFN obligation) is necessary to protect its essential security interests. Second, as the Russia-Transit case demonstrates, the measure meets the minimum requirement of plausibility with regard to the essential security interests in question. In other words, the measure should be connected to the emergency at hand as to make it feasible for the protection of essential security interests.In Pakistan’s case, India retracted its MFN promise by increasing tariff rates to 200% on all Pakistani imports. Although India’s decision to increase tariffs on Pakistani imports was driven by national security concerns, oddly enough, the notification on this did not even mention national security. This could have been because the decision was taken under Section 8A(1) of the Customs Tariff Act, which gives “emergency power” to the Indian government to increase import duties if the government is satisfied that this is necessary in the given circumstances. But, section 8A(1) does not talk of “national security” as a ground to modify tariff rates; it refers to economic emergencies.Consequently, it will be difficult to accept under WTO law that India genuinely believed that hiking tariff rates to 200% on all Pakistani imports is necessary to safeguard India’s essential security interests. India got away because Pakistan has not challenged India’s measure before a WTO panel. The reason could be that bilateral trade between the two countries is too small.But, using Section 8A(1) to impose trade restrictions on China will be tricky. China will, in all probability, challenge this in the WTO, and India will find it difficult to defend its action. If India wants to restrict Chinese imports on national security grounds, it will have to provide a reasonable explanation as to why and how imposing trade restrictions on China are “necessary” to defend India’s essential security interests.The other constraining factor for India is the high quantum of bilateral trade between the two countries. With bilateral trade at almost $90 billion a year, it is around 45 times more than that with Pakistan. Moreover, numerous Chinese imports are used as intermediary products in Indian industries ranging from pharmaceuticals, automobiles, and electronics. So, curbing imports on these will be tantamount to India losing out too. It is clear from this — when it comes to India’s dealing with Pakistan and China under WTO, what’s sauce for the goose is definitely not sauce for the gander.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/restricting-chinese-imports-will-not-be-easy/story-RcDRLpgszZtoDaC7AHmFIJ.html
