30-06-2020||News||It can no longer be business-as-usual | Analysis||The difference between the summer of 2020 and earlier face-offs between Indian and Chinese troops in eastern Ladakh is that, this time around, the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) has come in strength.Several divisions of PLA have been deployed in the depth areas, and, consequently, there are also larger numbers of troops in close proximity to each other in the India–China border areas. The Indian Army has also made a matching build-up in the area and all along the Line of Actual Control (LAC). Due to the sheer numbers as well as the fact that armour and artillery have also been brought up, it is apparent that PLA has planned and prepared this current offensive. It aims at moving the ground positions of Chinese troops right up to what they conceive is LAC.By doing so, what, in effect, the Chinese are attempting to accomplish is to unilaterally define and determine LAC without bilateral consultation with India. China will decide what is its territory and will move to exercise actual control over it. The Indian Army has blocked the Chinese and is deployed to protect Indian territorial integrity. What PLA has also managed to do is to violate all the principles, norms, standard procedures which have evolved over the past 25 years to maintain peace and tranquillity in the border areas. They have displayed how little store it sets by agreements signed by its own government.Strategically, what the Chinese are signalling to India and the world is that they are the number one power in Asia and that they will throw their weight around as they wish, whether in the South China Sea or on the India-China border. They also want India to understand and accept that China’s comprehensive national power far outweighs India’s, and that the nation must acknowledge its place in the pecking order of Asia. India must roll over and play dead. The 21st Century is not an Asian century but a Chinese century.India’s military action in eastern Ladakh, in turn, sends China the very clear message that India does not accept Chinese hegemony and will not tolerate its bullying and pushing. India shall stand up to it. The nation’s brave soldiers did exactly this, on that fateful night of June 15 in the Galwan Valley. Remember, the rest of the world is also watching. If China has thrown down the gauntlet, India has picked it up.Having militarily sent out the clear intention to take on China and oppose its aggressive methods aimed at browbeating other nations including India, we cannot let the rest of the India-China relationship continue as normal. It cannot be business as usual.Why? If India was to do that we would be negating the message of our military action on the ground, and, in stark contrast, be conveying to the Chinese that India can live with what its army has done. Therefore, India needs to reinforce and reiterate its military messaging through policy decisions which further underline India’s very clear national consensus not to accept Chinese big brotherly attitudes and plain bullying. It is for this reason that India will have to take measures to indicate that if there is no peace on the border, the rest of the relationship with China will also be negatively impacted. A reassessment and recalibration of India’s China policy are required to make India’s messaging crystal clear.The first step in this resetting of India’s China policy was the ban on 59 Chinese apps such as TikTok, WeChat and UC Browser. India is only getting started. Banning Chinese firms on national security grounds from participating in India’s 5G trials and rollout will be a strong indication of New Delhi’s mindset.One consequence of Chinese actions will be for India to strengthen its partnerships with democracies such as the United States, Japan, France, South Korea and, perhaps, Indonesia. India must also expand its relations with Taiwan. Delhi will have to reassess its China policy with a cool, calm, rational frame of mind. There is no need for knee-jerk reactions. In order to weigh the options which can be on the table, India has to have widespread consultations which must be timebound. The new policy must be implemented within 2020 itself.Such a reset and recalibration of India’s China policy, particularly in the economic realm, cannot be accomplished without causing some pain to ourselves. When we have decided that a strong message needs to be sent to China, then we must also be ready to bear the pain.Indian soldiers have done this on our borders; now it is time for ordinary Indians to show that they are willing to do so too. The pain is likely to come in the form of higher consumer prices for certain products; it may come in the form of lower profits for firms; it may also take the form of lower revenues for traders. We shall have to accept some pain, if we are to convey that we are a strong, united nation which China has made the mistake of riling. India’s strength of character will have to be put on full display to indicate to China that it will not be business as usual.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/it-can-no-longer-be-business-as-usual-analysis/story-UaU4oP00LWxEyGWx9EHT9J.html
30-06-2020||News||After the ban, what next for India’s digital ecosystem | Analysis||The ministry of electronics and information technology (MeiTY) banned 59 Chinese digital applications available in India on Monday evening. The list of banned applications includes TikTok, a popular user-generated content platform, and UC Browser, the most widely used Internet browser in second and third-tier cities. The government ban, affected under the Information Technology (IT) Act, 2000, seems to form a part of the retaliatory strategy against Chinese incursions in Ladakh. This is the first time that India has used such a direct lever in the digital sphere, to react to military events.Several commentators have warned that the Internet might splinter along national borders in the future, as countries such as India increasingly assert their sovereignty in cyberspace. This reality seems closer than ever, since the world is simultaneously witnessing the Covid-19 pandemic, a widespread economic slowdown and the destabilising impact of the trade war between the United States (US) and China. Uncertainty breeds fear-based responses like protectionism. This is evident in the responses of the US and the United Kingdom, which have signalled a retreat from globalisation, a framework they have championed for decades. The digital economy is not immune to such fundamental shifts. It is worth asking whether India is prepared for a Balkanised digital world. According to Ericsson, global mobile data traffic was around 456 exabytes in 2019, of which India accounted for approximately 75 exabytes, or 16%. Around 14% of the global population resides in India, and therefore, it punches slightly above its weight in terms of mobile data consumption. However, India has not begun to generate commensurate economic value from this outsized data consumption yet. In fact, the global digital economy seems to mimic its physical counterpart, with the US and China making up the lion’s share.According to the United Nations, the US and China account for 90% of the market capitalisation of the 70 largest digital platforms in the world. They also account for 75% of all patents related to blockchain technologies, 50% of global spending on the Internet of Things, and more than 75% of the global market for public cloud computing. It’s clear that the two countries will remain at the forefront of global technological developments, which will feed their dominance in the digital economy. The emergence of this bipolar digital landscape narrows India’s strategic choices. The world’s largest digital democracy must foster innovation, competition and scale in the private sector, as well as increase State capacity to govern new markets in parallel.The biggest digital companies in the world are platforms that offer multiple functions. Such platforms now determine how a large share of the global population communicates, transacts, searches for information and services, buys consumer products, finds new jobs, stores data, distributes and markets products, and so on. Many of the companies that India banned on Monday also follow the platform model. They achieved multi-functionality and a global scale because, like the US, China allows its digital entrepreneurs to take risks. The People’s Republic of China picks winners and provides unconditional State support for its national champions to scale. On the other hand, the US provides legal certainty for innovation and competition to flourish. India will have to strike a balance between both these approaches.In either case, sudden bans cannot be part of India’s playbook. The digital ecosystem is a breeding ground for the creative destruction of old methods of doing business. It must also prompt a revisit of old approaches to economic regulation, including blunt instruments reminiscent of the licence-permit raj.India’s digital applications are governed by a 20-year-old law and an eight-year-old policy. Both are unsuitable to digital markets because they were designed for the business process outsourcing ecosystem, not for modern digital applications or platforms. Similarly, the Copyright Act, which provides incentives and protections for most of the content, organised datasets and source codes, that sit at the heart of the digital economy, was last amended in 2012. India’s top 10 digital companies are valued at a tenth of the Chinese equivalents, while its per capita income is about 44% of China’s. There is, therefore, room for India to unlock greater value through a digital reboot of rules and regulations.Finally, just as India is revisiting its alignments in international relations, it may have to develop a cogent strategy for trade and commerce in the digital economy. If the revenues of information technology-enabled services are anything to go by, a majority of digital economy revenues will come from exports. A large share of these exports will head westwards. This trend will hold because the economic impact of the pandemic is likely to be more pronounced in developing countries than in developed ones. The country will need exports to offset the concomitant slowdown in domestic consumption. Since global trade is built on the principle of reciprocity, India must do to others, as it wishes for itself.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/after-the-ban-what-next-for-india-s-digital-ecosystem/story-beF2f9jhqAWYYHRlk49G9J.html
30-06-2020||News||Covid-19: Changing what it means to travel safely | Analysis||Our ability to move has shaped the world, and it will dictate the future of the human race. But as the world struggles through an unprecedented lockdown, it faces a scary, new question: How will cities safely move billions of people after a pandemic?Before Covid-19, we took mobility for granted. On an average day, five million travelled by the Delhi Metro, and over 10 million by Delhi’s public buses. The Indian Railways carried over 24 million, and Mumbai’s buses over 30 million passengers a day. A million passengers travelled through India’s airports every day.Today, those numbers are down sharply. As India thinks about how to reopen safely, the question will be how will it move millions, while keeping people safe. Can you have social distancing during rush hour on a Mumbai local train? In 2020, will we be torn between environment-friendly, efficient mass transit and fuel-guzzling personal transport?It’s heartening to see that India’s pioneering technology services industry has embraced working from home. However, for many, personal transport or working from home is not an option. Mass transit must find solutions to get back up and running while slowing the spread of the coronavirus. The New York City Transit, responsible for the city’s buses and subway, is testing social distancing markers at stations, as well as “rides by reservation”. The city’s subway authorities disinfect each train every night. The Paris, London and Singapore Transit authorities are making face masks mandatory for riders, installing thermal scanners, and limiting the number of seats available on trains. In China, robots are disinfecting trains and stations, and providing hand sanitisers to passengers. Smart-card readers with thermal scanners can even spot feverish passengers.My prediction is that many governments and transit companies will rely more on apps and contactless travel — a trend that was already taking hold, and will be catalysed by the crisis.Airlines and long-distance travel options also aim to contain the spread by measures such as blocking the middle seats, thermal scanning for passengers, sanitisation upgrades, inter-seat separators, and readjusting the air-conditioning systems every three-to-four minutes.These solutions are useful, but there is an opportunity for more. After spending my entire career in transportation, and now as CEO of Virgin Hyperloop, I believe it is critical that we collectively and proactively invest in infrastructure that will serve us in the next century. Let’s encourage investment that not only helps us rebuild, but evolve. This crisis is upon us and we need to provide a solution that moves the masses in a safe way, and helps to bolster the economy for the people of the region.One of the first things we need to grapple with is figuring out how transportation should deal with future pandemics, in addition to running efficiently in normal circumstances.As it turns out, the hyperloop’s basic design and technology make it ideally suited for social distancing, should the need arise. That’s because it delivers passengers with a fleet of pods, with an average of 28 seats per pod, that are guided by a command-and-control system that balances supply and demand. In “distancing operation” mode, where social distancing mandates the passenger density to be, say, reduced to half, the number of pods in the system can increase to move more people through the system safely. This can all happen while not stopping the system. Unlike rail, the pods are controlled by an artificial-intelligence-powered automation system, allowing them to travel within seconds of each other (like cars on a highway), safely.The system is demand-responsive. The hyperloop can anticipate and control ridership in emergencies or special situations. You don’t have to “trust” passengers to be physically distant, as in subways, for example; you can enforce a certain number of empty seats on each pod or give priority to emergency and health care workers.Even in “normal” operations, we still want to take precautions and provide a seamless customer experience. The hyperloop is designed to have touchless ticketing with minimum human exposure, advanced filtration, and regular cleaning. The system also enables a flexible station design, allowing decentralisation and less crowding at the stations since multiple smaller pods leave within minutes vs a larger train with multiple cars.Safety is at the forefront of our minds right now, but it is critical that we think about the big picture. We must still look to fight congestion and the climate crisis. Take the Mumbai-Pune corridor, where we hope to invest in and build the world’s first commercial hyperloop system, which will shrink a 3.5 hour trip to less than 30 minutes, with zero direct emissions. It has the capacity to move over 200 million passengers annually to meet the demand of this route. We feel that this private investment into Maharashtra will help support the people with new opportunities for growth. We hope that we can work together to make it happen in the near future. We are ready.I still believe our ability to move will dictate the future of the human race. Our ability to move billions safely in a pandemic will help decide its present, and its near future. The tail of this pandemic is going to be a long one, and mass transit and transportation around the world has to adapt, so that passengers are safe and can continue with their lives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/covid-19-changing-what-it-means-to-travel-safely/story-NrbOCac2LbTjyY33wStyNN.html
30-06-2020||News||Black Lives Matter: Protest movements of marginalised groups highlight the gap in the principles and actual practice of democracy||The video of the killing of George Floyd by a white police officer in Minneapolis on May 25 triggered a wave of protests against police brutality and systematic racism in the United States. For over four weeks now, setting aside concerns for their personal safety, in the midst of a global pandemic, hundreds of thousands have marched to support the Black Lives Matter Movement (BLM). Protest of disadvantaged groups are infrequent and rarely matter. The BLM protests are different. Why? Their geographical spread, diversity, and their ability to remain peaceful enable a shift in American public opinion, and, therefore, make these protests politically consequential. The BLM protests have spread to 2,000 cities across all 50 states in America. Such a broad geographical footprint of the protest points to its resonance across a large part of the country. Scholars have suggested that historically American geography has stood in the way of protest politics of disadvantaged groups. Since prominent cities are far apart in this continental country, protest movements through the 19th and the 2th century could not spread across cities in real time, constraining their ability to push for policy change. In explaining the relative ineffectiveness of labour agitations in America as compared to western Europe, Alberto Alesina and Edward Glaeser, for example, note, “America’s great distances have made it difficult for strikers in industrial areas to impact Washington, DC.” Moreover, police departments fall under the jurisdiction of city governments, localising the politics of anti-police grievance. But, today, the conversation on racial justice and police violence against blacks is a countrywide phenomenon in the US.Protests of marginalised minority groups need allies to become politically consequential. If these were black-only protests, it would be easy for the Republican and Democratic parties as well as elected leaders to ignore them. African Americans are only 12% of the electorate and 90% of their vote supports the Democratic Party, which can sometimes take their vote for granted. The Republicans ignore, or are openly hostile to the concerns of the community. They have often used the manufactured threat of a violent and entitled black minority to consolidate the majority white vote. This traditional calculus stands disturbed, since the protests have grabbed the sympathy of a section of the white community. The 2020 protests against racial injustice have brought together a rainbow coalition of races and ethnicities. Influential actors, including major corporations, sports leagues, and even the US military, who have pointedly remained silent during previous protests, have spoken strongly in favor of BLM movement. By contrast, in the 1960s the black protesters not entirely, but mostly marched alone. Another striking aspect of BLM protests is the high rates of participation of women across racial backgrounds. Television and social media coverage show substantial presence of women at BLM marches. A racially diverse makeup and higher participation of women amplifies the appeal of the protests. Bluntly put, when white male cops beat, taser, pepper spray, tear gas white women on live television or in viral videos, white middle-class America is not impressed. Whether it is social change or reelection of Donald Trump in November, white middle-class America’s support is crucial to these outcomes.The sporadic violence and looting that accompanied the first wave of BLM protests has gradually disappeared. Research tells us that peaceful protests draw more supporters, are more likely to attract the sympathy of bystanders, and when met with a harsh response from the State, can rob the security forces of public support. Non-violent protests, then, are far more likely to shift public opinion. By remaining largely peaceful, BLM marches have harnessed the benefits of this tactic. The infamous images of the forceful clearing of peaceful protestors from Lafayette Square in Washington DC by security forces further bolstered the moral legitimacy of BLM movement and drew more people to the protests. By contrast, the National Guard and police units implicated in the operation suffered a loss of credibility. Police brutality is a political issue in America because BLM movement has made it into one. A recently released Monmouth University poll found that 57% of Americans believe that the police are more likely to use excessive force against African Americans as compared to whites. In 2016, only 34% respondents felt similarly. The shift among the white respondents, from 25% in 2016 to 49% in 2020, is equally striking. Writing in the New York Times, Nate Cohn and Kevin Queali confirm this trend: “Polls show that a majority of Americans believe that the police are more likely to use deadly force against African-Americans, and that there’s a lot of discrimination against black Americans in society. Back in 2013, when Black Lives Matter began, a majority of voters disagreed with all of these statements.” The shift in attitudes is also driving the cleansing of the American public sphere of symbols of racial stereotypes and injustice. Prestigious universities, historical statues, flags, popular food brands, music bands, even iconic films find themselves in the uncomfortable public gaze. Having survived past protests, today, they are disappearing or changing.Protest movements of marginalised groups are a moment of clarification for an undemocratic society living in a democratic political system. They highlight the gap in the principles and actual practice of democracy. Thanks to social media, today, protests can appear and spread swiftly, but previous experience suggests that durable social change occurs at glacial speed. Protests of the marginalised also produce backlash from privileged groups. In 2020, American politics remains deeply polarised between Republicans and Democrats. The African American community is forced to electorally ally with one side in this conflict, an attribute that adds to their vulnerability. Just because blacks vote, does not necessarily mean that they have a voice in democratic politics. Their protest movements amplify their voice. Through protests, the black community holds its representatives, the democratic process, and society accountable. Slowly, then, these protest movements also nudge society towards social change.Amit Ahuja teaches political science at University of California-Santa Barbara, and is the author of Mobilizing the Marginalized: Ethnic Parties Without Ethnic MovementsThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/black-lives-matter-protest-movements-of-marginalised-groups-highlight-the-gap-in-the-principles-and-actual-practice-of-democracy/story-6bvU9vzWYoHY4NDzJBL3EL.html
30-06-2020||News||UAPA: When laws turn oppressive | Opinion||Many of India’s laws have become instruments of oppression rather than vehicles to regulate conduct. One such law is the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967 (UAPA). It is primarily meant to combat terror and proscribe known terrorist organisations. Parliament, in the latest amendment to UAPA in July 2019, chose to proscribe individuals and their activities by paving the way to name individuals as terrorists even though they may have no affiliation with any of the 36 terrorist organisations referred to in the First Schedule of the Act. The government seeks to justify this amendment consistent with its alleged desire to effectively deal with terrorists and terrorist organisations who threaten security. Unfortunately, the provisions of UAPA have, in the recent past, been used against those known to speak up for the oppressed, those who foster the cause of civil rights, and others who oppose the government and its policies.The home minister, when moving the amendment, justified naming an individual as a terrorist if he or she “is a terrorist worker or takes part in any terrorist act”. He also said that those who “help to promote or prepare for terrorism should also be designated as a terrorist(s)” including individuals “who raise(s) money to promote terrorism”. It is true that a person who, as a member of a terrorist organisation, carries forward its agenda by participating in a terrorist act, must be dealt with in accordance with the provisions of UAPA. However, we move into a somewhat grey zone when the State seeks to prosecute people by charging them with “preparing” for terrorism or “promoting” terrorism or raising money to “promote” terrorism. Unless a direct nexus is established between the acts of preparation or promotion of the terrorist act itself and the activity of a terrorist organisation, the Act will be used, and has been used, to silence those who oppose the State for its discriminatory policies and actions. The home minister further said that there are others who attempt to plant “terrorist literature” and infiltrate young minds with “terrorist theory”. What kind of literature is “terrorist literature”, what “theories” influence young minds, and what kind of “propaganda” is perceived to be a “terrorist act” are concepts ill-defined and easily misused. So far, no individual has been named as a “terrorist” under UAPA. But many highly-regarded leaders of society, journalists, students who have opposed the Citizenship (Amendment) Act or CAA, and who were perceived by the State to hold views contrary to that of the government, are currently being investigated with intent to prosecute under UAPA.The data available with the National Crime Records Bureau Report 2018 suggests that the conviction rate of those prosecuted under UAPA was as low as 14.5% in 2015 and as high as 49.3% in 2017. The total number of persons arrested in 2018 was 1,421; other relevant data includes those charge-sheeted (853), convicted (35), discharged (23) and acquitted (117). Clearly, the rate of conviction in 2018 was less than 30%. Of those convicted by the trial court, several may well be acquitted by the appellate court, making the rate of conviction abysmally low. This is proof of the investigating authorities roping in named accused who are clearly not terrorists, making the law and procedures under it oppressive. Many of them are kept in custody for years before acquittal. An indication of the law’s indiscriminate misuse is reflected in the kind of people arrested under UAPA. Some disturbing examples among others are: Akhil Gogoi, a Right to Information Act activist; Safoora Zargar, a research scholar from Jamia Millia Islamia; Anand Teltumbde and Gautam Navlakha, both of whom have done seminal work in protecting India’s most vulnerable communities, namely the Dalits and Adivasis; Masrat Zahra, a 26-year-old internationally-acclaimed photojournalist; Umar Khalid for allegedly instigating the Delhi riots with his speeches at anti-CAA rallies; and Gowhar Geelani, a Kashmiri author and journalist, for his social media posts.The reason why naming individuals is oppressive and violates citizens’ fundamental freedoms is because of the onerous provisions relating to bail. First, those being investigated can be kept in custody for 180 days pending filing of the charge-sheet. Bail is refused if the court, on perusal of the case diary or upon filing of a charge-sheet, is of the opinion that there are reasonable grounds for believing that the accusations against the person are prima facie true. It is the settled position in law that the accused cannot have access to the case diary. As far as the charge-sheet is concerned, the act of taking cognisance by the court is based on a prima facie belief that the accusations are true. At that stage, the accused is not heard by the court. This makes the law onerous and offensive, with no hope for the accused to access bail. Trials, too, take long. At the end of 2018, of the 2,008 cases, only 317 were sent to trial. Given the state of the law, an acquittal at the end of the trial means little.The imbalance between fundamental freedoms and the larger interests of the State is heavily skewed against the citizen. The State uses the law as an instrument of oppression, making democracy its victim.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/uapa-when-laws-turn-oppressive/story-d9d7OEO50LQjLZs3Ba5pzI.html
30-06-2020||News||At LAC, continue to ramp up infrastructure||Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi recently stated that 20 jawans were martyred but not before they taught a lesson to those who had dared to raise an eye towards “Bharat Mata”. PM assured the nation that, today, it has the capability that no one could eye even an inch of its territory. He suggested that the infrastructure in the border areas had improved greatly, leading to heightened patrolling and close monitoring of movements at the border. PM also made it clear that India would respond firmly to any attempts to transgress the Line of Actual Control (LAC).China has always made a creeping annexation part of its policy towards India. The Congress, when in power, turned a blind eye to the encroachment on India’s territories by the Chinese through continuous transgressions and border violations. Though the country entered into as many as six bilateral agreements in 1988, 1993, 1996, 2005, 2012 and 2013, it did not address the dispute over LAC. When the Chinese intruded and pitched tents deep inside India’s territory at Depsang, in 2013, the then Prime Minister Manmohan Singh merely spoke in Parliament about the Chinese having a different perception about LAC. Confidence-Building Measures (CBMs) were misused by the Chinese to resort to psychological warfare and “salami slicing”. This is because, after 1962, defence forces were neglected and infrastructure was shoddy.After Modi assumed power, strengthening infrastructure became a national priority. Today, there has been a great leap in infrastructure development at the Indo-China border on the Indian side which has served as a deterrent to China. Had the infrastructural development started in past regimes, India would have been in a more dominant position today. After 2014, India created a strong road network through the Border Roads Organisation and the Central Public Works Department despite the small window, during the year, for construction, due to the harsh winter. The Border Area Development Programme (BADP) has been allocated ~784 crore in the fiscal year 2020-2021. BADP stipulates that “10% of the total allocated funds will be additionally allocated to the states/Union territories abutting Indo-China Border (Arunachal Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh, Ladakh, Sikkim and Uttarakhand) for taking up works in the districts abutting Indo-China border”. The creation of infrastructure “would help integrate these area with the hinterland, create a positive perception of care by the country and encourage the people to stay or in the border areas leading to safe and secure border” as per the ministry of home affairs. Infrastructure has developed on all borders through the comprehensive Integrated Border Management Systems — be it border out posts, border fencing, mobile towers, the use of technology at the border and lighting. On the Indo-Tibet border, roads, helipads, tunnels and bridges have been built. At the same time, there has been an increase in patrolling — be it long-range patrols, short-range patrols or joint patrols by the Army and the Indo-Tibetan Border Police. India has held its ground in several face-offs. Regular patrols also enable us to assess China’s activities, identify features of tactical importance, dominate infiltration routes, corroborate inputs and assert our presence. Post-2014, our patrols have been actively engaging, confronting and preventing any incursions. We have not allowed any construction activity in our territory within LAC. In Doklam, India stalled the construction of a road by the Chinese, which would have adversely affected the nation’s strategic interests. It is only after this that China became more wary of India’s diplomatic and military might.Work on a link road, part of an infrastructure project of a strategic road in Ladakh, is one of the factors which seems to have pushed China into its misadventure on June 15. They were given a bloody nose by Indian soldiers. Another reason which could have irked China is the fact that India did not support the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI), which was not advisable from the country’s security point of view. BRI was to establish China’s dominance in global trade. This included the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor, which is not acceptable to India as it goes through Pakistan-occupied Kashmir. Other factors which angered China could have been the friendly relations between India and the United States and the formation of the two Union territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh as well as the abrogation of Article 370. This reflects China’s vulnerability and the Galwan Valley aggression seems to be the desperate act of a frustrated country.PM Modi’s policy towards China has been a judicious mix of diplomatic, military and economic options. He and President Xi Jinping have had as many as 18 summit meetings over the past six years, including two informal meetings at Mamallapuram and Wuhan. Several meetings have been held at different levels. The 15th meeting of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination, was held on June 24, where India stressed on respecting LAC and both sides agreed to expeditiously implement the understanding on disengagement and de-escalation. While diplomatic parleys should continue, it is imperative to continue the PM’s policy to strengthen both the nation’s infrastructural and military build-up to contain the Dragon if it challenges us again. No one can challenge a determined India. Though India is a peaceful nation, we will negotiate only from a position of strength. And this can happen when strong leadership under PM Modi is guiding India’s security policy based on national interests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/at-lac-continue-to-ramp-up-infrastructure/story-MqasiUwyVCJDadht7cdixI.html
