01-11-2021||West Bengal||Follow SC order, celebrate with green crackers, Mamata tells people||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday urged people to abide by the Supreme Court order and use only green crackers for celebrations on Kali Puja and Diwali. Setting aside the Calcutta High Court order that prohibited all firecrackers during Kali Puja, Diwali and other festivals this year, the apex court, earlier in the day, said there cannot be a complete ban on crackers and the mechanism to stop their misuse has to be strengthened. A special bench of Justices A M Khanwilkar and Ajay Rastogi also asked the West Bengal government to explore the possibility of ensuring that banned firecrackers and related items are not imported in the state at the entry point itself. Banerjee, who inaugurated Kali puja pandals in the city, asked people to adhere to COVID-19 guidelines during celebrations. "I urge everyone to follow the guidelines as COVID-19 is still raging in the country. Bursting of green fireworks has been allowed but norms have to be followed. There shouldn't be any laxity..." she said. Asking everyone to promote communal harmony and amity in Bengal, she said night curfew has been relaxed for Kali puja, Diwali, Chhath, but people should not flout health protocols. "In Goa, everyone was seen wearing masks. In Siliguri and Kursesong, however, many people were found on the streets without masks. This should not happen. We must be alert," she pointed out. The CM, during the day, further said that her government will launch the next edition of 'Duare Sarkar' (government at doorsteps) programme on November 16. Under the programme, camps are set up across the state, with officials providing people information about the welfare schemes run by the state government and enrolling names of beneficiaries. At least one crore women have benefitted from the Lakshmir Bhandar' social welfare project, Banerjee added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-117
01-11-2021||West Bengal||Quit as MLA before jumping ship, Suvendu tells fence-sitters||Leader of the Opposition in Bengal Suvendu Adhikary on Monday told BJP legislators mulling the prospect of switching over to the Trinamul to do a Babul Supriyo, not Mukul Roy. The former Asansol MP Supriyo had stepped down as a Parliamentarian after joining the Trinamul in September. Roy, on the other hand, is clinging to his Krishnagar North seat as well as the Public Accounts Committee chairman’s chair, which has now been dragged to the Supreme Court. “Suvendu did not mince any words. He stated clearly that those who want to jump ship should resign from their posts (as legislators) or they will lose it. He said they will lose their posts otherwise and would have to take the by-election route to return to the Assembly,” a BJP MLA from North Bengal said after the first day of the Assembly session. Speaker Biman Banerjee, who was directed by the Calcutta High Court to settle the issue of Roy’s defection by October 7, has moved the apex court. After results were declared on May 2, five MLAs who had won on a BJP ticket have taken up the Trinamul flag, while Lok Sabha MP Sunil Mandal, who was seen campaigning for the BJP during the Assembly polls, has re-taken his seat reserved for Trinamul MPs in the Lok Sabha. Former Bidhannagar mayor Sabyasachi Dutta and former minister Rajib Banerjee, considered big catches by the BJP before the polls,  have also returned. Banerjee made his re-entry into the Trinamul on Sunday in Tripura. This is the first time in Bengal’s legislative and political history that the Trinamul Congress has faced a legal challenge over its repeated poaching of MLAs from other parties. “Suvendu said since the Speaker has moved the Supreme Court in the matter, the legal battle will continue,” an MLA said. In a case involving the Speaker of Manipur state Assembly, the Supreme Court had stipulated a three-month time frame for speakers to decide on cases of defection. The saffron camp is also upset with the Speaker for rejecting their demand of an obituary reference to victims of violence during Durga Puja in neighbouring Bangladesh in the Assembly. “We wanted to remember those who lost their lives in Bangladesh violence. The Treasury Bench did not accept our demand,” said Adhikary. Later on Monday evening, BJP MLAs held a candle light march inside the Assembly premises to pay their respects.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-117
01-11-2021||West Bengal||Bengal: Jam-packed rakes enter Howrah and Sealdah station||On the first day of resumption of regular local train services on Monday after a nearly six-month hiatus, crammed coaches raised the fear of spread of coronavirus amid rising Covid-19 cases in West Bengal. The state government in a recent order allowed intra-state local train movement with 50 per cent seating capacity from October 31. Eastern Railway (ER), which carries the bulk of local and suburban passengers in its Howrah and Sealdah divisions, operated trains on Sunday as per its holiday schedule, while regular services started from Monday. As jam-packed rakes entered Howrah and Sealdah terminal stations during the morning office hours, ER spokesperson Ekalabya Chakraborty said efforts are being made to ensure that passengers abide by the Covid-19 safety protocols including maintaining distance and wearing masks. "We are making announcements at stations urging passengers to consciously abide by the safety guidelines," he said. Chakraborty told PTI that a number of passengers have been penalised for not wearing masks at railway stations and in trains. Chakraborty said the ER was advising people, especially the elderly, through public address systems at railway stations to avoid unnecessary travel. ER, a Kolkata-headquartered zonal railway, has decided to run more than 920 Electric Multiple Unit (EMU) trains in its Sealdah division and over 480 trains in the Howrah division from Monday. The South Eastern Railway (SER), another zonal railway headquartered in the city, is running 48 EMU services in its Kharagpur division, an official said. Despite strict guidelines for maintaining social distance and wearing masks, a section of passengers were seen without masks in crowded coaches. "We have to go to work. What can we do if we have no other option but to avail crowded trains?" said Ranjan Das, who works at a trading firm in the Burrabazar area of the city. Minakshi Bhattacharya, an employee of a private company here, said despite being afraid of contracting the infection, she was availing the local train service since it was way better than travelling by crowded buses and auto-rickshaws which also cost much more for her to commute from Baruipur in South 24 Parganas district where she lives. "We want the number of local train services to be increased during office hours to ensure less crowding and to maintain health safety guidelines," she said. West Bengal has been showing an upward trend in the number of daily Covid-19 infections since the Durga Puja celebrations last month, with the bulk of the cases being reported from Kolkata and its neighbouring districts of North and South 24 Parganas, Howrah and Hooghly. Suburban EMU and other local train services were suspended by the West Bengal government from May 7 to check the spread of coronavirus during the second phase of the pandemic. However, ER and SER have been running staff special trains in their respective zones.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-117
01-11-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal logs 914 new cases, 913 recoveries and 14 deaths||Bengal on Sunday reported 914 new Covid-19 infections, 913 recoveries and 14 deaths, resulting in a drop by 14 in its active cases to 8,296. The drop in Bengal’s active cases or Covid patients under treatment came after four consecutive days. Bengal now has 5.42 per cent of India’s active cases, and is fifth among states with the most such cases. In 36 days since Bengal snapped out of a 97-day streak of fall in active cases, there has been a net rise of 622 in the state’s active cases, from 7,674 on September 25. A minister said new cases reported on Sunday indicated people who got infected between October 22 (two days after Lakshmi Puja) and 26. Calcutta reported 274 new infections and North 24-Parganas 144. Both districts reported six deaths each on Sunday. These were the only two of the state’s 23 districts with a three-digit figure of new cases in a day. Six districts reported a single-digit figure. Calcutta, North and South 24-Parganas, Howrah, Hooghly and Nadia accounted for 655 or 71.66 per cent of new infections detected on Sunday. Eighteen districts reported zero deaths. The state’s mortality rate is 1.2 per cent, while that of the nation is 1.34 per cent. The state’s recovery rate is 98.28 per cent, while that of the nation is 98.18 per cent. The daily positive confirmation rate, nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.93 per cent on Sunday. Bengal now has nearly 15.93 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was logged in March last year. The total includes over 15.65 lakh recoveries and 19,141 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-118
01-11-2021||West Bengal||Apologetic Rajib Banerjee back, murmurs in Trinamul Congress||Former Bengal minister Rajib Banerjee, who switched from Trinamul to the BJP this January before the Assembly polls, rejoined his former party on Sunday at a rally in Tripura’s Agartala. Rajib, as BJP candidate for his home seat Domjur, had lost to Trinamul’s Kalyan Ghosh. The BJP had inducted him into its national executive committee. Rajib rejoined Trinamul in the presence of the party’s general secretary Abhishek Banerjee. His is the eighth notable defection from the BJP after its poll debacle in Bengal. Rajib issued a slew of public apologies and hailed Bengal chief minister and Trinamul supremo Mamata Banerjee as “Mother India” and “goddess” after taking the party flag from Abhishek. “I am grateful to Mamata Banerjee and Abhishek Banerjee for allowing me to rejoin the party,” he said. “There is no shame in admitting I made a mistake (by joining the BJP).… Never trust the BJP,” he said, alleging its chief agenda was to win votes by polarising people on religion. He said he had joined the BJP as its leaders had painted a rosy picture of what they wanted to do in Bengal in terms of development but realised that their agenda votes from “religious politics”. He added: “I had criticised the Duare Ration and Swasthya Sathi policies of Mamata Banerjee. I thought they were poll gimmicks.... But after coming to power with such a strong mandate Mamata Banerjee did implement all those policies. Today she is not just the mother of Bengal, she is Mother India. She has been established as a goddess.” Bengal BJP chief Sukanta Majumdar said Rajib’s departure meant nothing to the party. Rajib’s homecoming created murmurs within Trinamul too. The party’s Serampore MP Kalyan Banerjee said he failed to understand why a “top to bottom corrupt person” had been taken back into the fold. “I have to accept that the top leadership of the party has included Rajib Banerjee in the party, but Mamta Banerjee had said during a meeting in Domjur that Rajib Banerjee has three-four houses in Gariahat…. Only the party leadership will be able to tell why he was taken back despite this,” the Serampore MP said. Rajib, addressing the people of Tripura in Abhishek’s Agartala rally, said that although he had spoken in favour of BJP's double engine government to denote the same party's government in the state and Centre, it was a mistake. Tripura had a double engine government since 2018, yet it made no progress whatsoever, he said. "I've many relatives here in Tripura. They had told me that the double-engine government concept is a mistake. They (BJP) had promised 50,000 jobs a year. Nobody got it. They'd also promised DA to the state government employees at the union government's rate. Nothing has happened.... Don't trust the BJP. Your trust will be broken like mine. Put your trust in Mamata Banerjee and Abhishek Banerjee,” he added. A Bengal BJP source said: “This (Rajib’s defection) isn't our embarrassment, it’s Delhi’s. They flew him to in a chartered flight for joining (the national committee).” Trinamul’s Kalyan Banerjee said: “I have to accept that the top leadership of the party has included Rajib Banerjee in the party, but Mamta Banerjee had said during a meeting in Domjur that Rajib Banerjee has three-four houses in Gariahat and his transaction is going on in Dubai. Only the party leadership will be able to tell why he was taken back despite this.” He added: “Abhishek Banerjee had said anybody who breaks the trust of party workers won’t be taken (in the party)… In order to stay in Trinamul, everyone has to obey top leadership. I have to as well. But I don't know why such a top-to-bottom corrupt person was taken back in the party.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-118
01-11-2021||West Bengal||Ire at Tagore town Doordarshan’s transmission unit closure bid||State textiles minister and Bolpur MLA Chandranath Sinha has written to Union information and broadcasting minister Anurag Singh Thakur requesting him to revoke the decision to shut the Santiniketan Doordarshan Kendra’s transmission unit. Set up by then Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi in 1984, it telecasts programmes on special occasions and one every Sunday on Santiniketan’s many facets. Sinha said he was “forced” to write to Thakur after an  association of engineering employees from the central government broadcasting unit wrote to him last week fearing job cuts. “It is a clear bid by the BJP to shut down the unit because it telecasts the cultural aspects of Santiniketan and Rabindranath Tagore. Prime Minister and Chancellor Rajiv Gandhi had set this up and now Narendra Modi, who holds the same post, is shutting it. If I don’t get any response from the I&B minister, I will write to the PM,” he said. Sources said that over two orders issued in September and October this year, the Prasar Bharti suddenly decided to close down 412 analog installations of the Doordarshan Kendra, including Santiniketan, without plans to replace them with digital terrestrial transmission. As a result, the telecasting process from those units will not be available anymore. “There are around 25 permanent staffers, and the government is closing down units without thinking about them. We are afraid that if the Union government is successful in closing it down, all other segments including Akashvani will be under threat,” said a senior employee of the Santiniketan Doordarshan Kendra. In his letter, Sinha said the Centre should remember that the name Akashvani was given by Tagore. “The decision to withdraw the Kendra from Santiniketan is nothing but a call to stop the spread of Tagore’s ideology in the country. It is the BJP’s practice to downplay the culture of Bengal and that too of a polymath like Tagore,” said minister Sinha. Several residents of Santiniketan said that the Doordarshan Kendra was closely connected to the local culture and had covered the visits of all Prime Ministers visiting the campus including Rajiv Gandhi, Atal Behari Vajpayee, Manmohan Singh and Narendra Modi. Mohan Singh Khangura, eminent Rabindra Sangeet exponent, said the decision was a direct attempt to “disconnect” Tagore and Santiniketan from the country. “The Central government should consider how many distinguished people had recorded their performances in this Doordarshan Kendra. It is very unfortunate for us that the BJP-led government is playing games with Tagore's culture. I strongly condemn this,” said Khangura.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-118
01-11-2021||West Bengal||Two TMC leaders murdered in Murshidabad and Bankura||Trinamul leaders, Habibur Rahman, 57, of Murshidabad, and Biplab Roy, 48, of Bankura were killed late on Saturday. Rahman, general-secretary of Trinamul-run Kakgram gram panchayat, was found dead with his throat slit, possibly for  the cash he had on him. Roy, a well-known party worker in Bankura’s Taldangra was beaten to death, allegedly for opposing the re-entry of Trinamul turncoats. Rahman, also husband of gram panchayat member Rupadi Biwi, also was carrying a “heavy sum of cash” on him. His son alleged Rahman was killed for the money and named an acquaintance. K. Sabari Rajkumar, the SP, said they started a probe and had set up a watchpost in Bahara village where the crime occurred. In the Roy case, eight arrests were made on Sunday. Trinamul sources called it a political murder by “pre-election turncoats” as Roy opposed their bid to join Trinamul again after the Assembly elections. Two hitmen from Narkeldanga in Calcutta were arrested by Burdwan police on Sunday in connection with the October 23 murder of trader Sabyasachi Mondal. Police said more people are involved in the murder.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-118
01-11-2021||West Bengal||First hill communist ‘roars’ in granddaughter’s biography||Ratanlal Brahmin, the first and tallest communist from Darjeeling hills, made headlines on Sunday, three decades after his death,  through his first English biography penned by his granddaughter Preeti Brahmin. Preeti’s biography, The Red Lion of the Hills, was launched by Krishan Singh Moktan, former inspector-general (jails) and a writer, at the Gorkha Dukha Niwarak Sammelan (GDNS) hall here. The irony of Moktan’s presence could not be missed. He was the superintendent of Dum Dum Central Jail in 1965 when Ratanlal, popularly known as Maila Bajae (older grandfather) was lodged there with eminent communists like Jyoti Basu, who was his lifelong friend, Promode Dasgupta and others. Moktan recalled how police had to break Maila Bajae’s prison cell to force-feed him to end a protest of communist leaders in jail. The hill leader had been mercilessly thrashed by police earlier. “The doctors said one of his legs would have to be amputated but he recovered without surgery,” said Moktan. Maila Bajae was one of the founders of GDNS in 1932 and with the core job to give a “decent burial” to mostly Gorkha people, whose bodies would often be lying on the streets during the British era. Preeti’s book traces Maila Bajae’s journey from a child born in an affluent family, who was orphaned young. He worked as a cook, became a rebel who took up social issues and the tallest communist leader of the region. Maila Bajae had many “firsts” , said Amar Singh Rai, former Darjeeling MLA. He was the first comrade from hills after CPI leader Sushil Chatterji convinced him to join the party in 1943. He was the first leader from the hills to start a workers’ union and was instrumental in forming a panel to demand recognition of Nepali language. He and his 50-odd friends also wrote a poster in blood against hoarders during the Bengal famine. “Such acts earned him the sobriquet Robin Hood,” recalled Moktan. But there were downs too. When proponents of Gorkhaland started a violent agitation in 1986, Maila Bajae’s home was razed to the ground and he was forced into exile. When his body was brought to Darjeeling after his death in 1989, Gorkha leaders issued a diktat that none should attend his funeral as he was a communist. “Despite the diktat many paid their last respects,” recalled a resident at the event. Maila Bajae’s won the Bengal provincial election from Darjeeling in 1946, one of the only three communists to win this election along with Jyoti Basu, his lifelong friend, and Roopnarayan Roy, and was again elected to Parliament in 1971. Bajae was the first to unsuccessfully try and take oath in Nepali in the Lok Sabha, then an unrecognised language and when entering the Bengal Assembly in 1946, he created a ruckus for not being allowed to enter the hall with a khukri. “People would ask me for references on my grandfather’s life and when I found little written in English, I decided to start this project,” said Preeti, who is in her early 40s. “I have tried to enlighten the readers through anecdotes on why he denounced khukri and his life beliefs and his immense love for the community,” said Preeti.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-118
01-11-2021||West Bengal||Siliguri: 30-year-old villager killed in elephant attack ||A 30-year-old resident of a village under Naxalbari block under Siliguri subdivision, some 30km from here, was trampled to death by a wild elephant on Sunday. The incident triggered panic in Mangalsinghjote village, as this is the third such incident of death caused by a wild elephant in the past one month in the area. According to him, when an elephant herd entered the village early on Sunday from neighbouring Tukuria forest, a group of villagers rushed to steer the animals back into the forest. The elephants left but the villagers had no inkling that a tusker among the herd had stayed back. While they were returning home, the tusker attacked them. It grabbed Nakul Singha, present among the group of villagers, with its trunk and trampled him to death. Jyasthomohan Roy, the former chief of Hatighisa panchayat under which the village is located, said wild elephants were giving them sleepless nights. “It has become a regular phenomenon now. Elephants are entering a number of villages in search of fodder. Three people have lost their lives in the past one month while trying to save their crops,” said Roy. The state forest department should intensify its vigil and deploy more teams to prevent wild elephants from entering villages, said villagers. “If the department cannot deploy people, they should provide us searchlights and crackers (to ward off elephants),” one said. Officials of Kurseong forest division and Darjeeling wildlife division, when contacted, said they are patrolling in a consistent manner in areas of Siliguri subdivision where elephants often intrude. “In this case, the villager was unfortunately attacked by a lone elephant that strayed from a herd wandering in Naxalbari. The victim’s family will be compensated according to rule. We are aware that harvesting season is ahead and a dedicated squad has been engaged to prevent elephant depredation,” said a forest officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-118
