02-11-2021||West Bengal||With bypoll sweep, Trinamul sets template for future elections ||The blueprint of the outcome of the pending elections to  seven municipal corporations and 118 municipalities in Bengal was laid bare in the results to the four Assembly by-elections – Dinhata, Santipur, Khardaha and Gosaba—where voting was held on Saturday. The ruling Trinamul not only made a clean sweep _  wresting the seats of Dinhata and Santipur _ from the BJP, its winning margins dwarfed every other party in the state. The CPM continued to remain at the third spot with the only consolation for the party being that the BJP is not too far ahead from it at this stage. In Dinhata, winning nominee Udayan Guha, who had once donned  Forward Bloc colours and whose late father was a minister in the Left Front government, polled 84.15 per cent of the votes. Deep in the south, at Gosaba, the winning Trinamul nominee had 87.19 per cent of the votes. In both the places, the BJP received 11.31 per cent and 9.95 per cent respectively. In the first round of counting, Guha had received 9,057 votes, while the BJP nominee got 1,405 votes and the Forward Bloc candidate a mere 359 votes. In round 10, Guha had received 10,663 votes and the BJP only 877. The votes polled in three of the seats, except Santipur, showed a similar trend of the Trinamul’s vote count hovering either above or close to the 10,000 while the Opposition barely managing to cross the three-figure mark in most of the rounds. “It seems the Opposition vote does not exist in Bengal any longer. If this is the state, the fate of the municipal elections can be declared even before the dates are announced,” said the head of the political science department of a Calcutta-based college. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee gave credit to her politics of development. “My heartiest congratulations to all the four winning candidates. This victory is people’s victory, as it shows how Bengal will always choose development and unity over propaganda and hate politics. With people’s blessings, we promise to continue taking Bengal to greater heights,” tweeted an ecstatic Mamata. "A cracker free Diwali in true sense. Wishing folks at @BJP4India a very Happy Diwali!," tweeted Abhishek Bannerjee, Trinamul's all India general secretary and Mamata's political successor. With the emphatic win Trinamul’s official tally in the house is 218, while BJP's has come down to 75 with five of these MLAs having switched sides to the ruling Trinamul. “Why we could not retain our two seats requires deep study. The party’s central and state leaders will definitely identify the weaknesses,” said Jai Prakash Majumdar, BJP’s state vice-president. The biggest worry for the BJP now would be to hold on to its flock of 70-odd MLAs, many of whom first-timers. “There will be pressure, false cases could be filed (against Opposition MLAs). We have seen what has been happening in Bengal politics for the last 10 years. This politics of coercion and intimidation is costing the state a great deal,” said a senior Congress leader. The Congress had contested only one seat, Santipur, which was once its stronghold. The seven municipal corporations in the state have been without a mayor for more than a year now as the Mamata Banerjee government, fearing anti-incumbency and using the ruse of the Covid pandemic, withheld  elections from even before this summer’s Assembly elections. The poll outcome would give enough ammo to the ruling Trinamul to go ahead and announce the civic polls. The Trinamul’s domination in the panchayat elections, where most of the seats went uncontested, had cost the party heavily in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. Mamata would not want a repeat of the same, but old habits die hard. At this moment, Trinamul is not willing to concede any space to the Opposition. A round-by-round study of the by-poll results says despite being on the winning side, the Trinamul is much afraid.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-116
02-11-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul headed for a 4-0 win as bypoll counting progresses ||Trinamul Congress is all set to extend its official tally of MLAs to 218 as the party is leading comfortably in the October 30 bypolls to all the four Assembly seats—Dinhata, Santipur, Khardaha and Gosaba--- counting of which is underway on Tuesday. The final outcome would draw loud cheers from the ruling camp as the party is most likely to wrest the seats of Dinhata and Santipur, which the BJP had won during the Assembly polls. TRINAMUL LEADS  Khardaha: 76,751 Santipur:28,606 Dinhata: 1,63,005 Gosaba: 1,41,893 In Dinhata, where the BJP nominee and party’s Cooch Behar MP Nisith Pramanik, now a junior minister in the Union home ministry, had won by the thinnest margin of just 57 votes, Trinamul’s Udayan Guha has a lead of over 1.63 lakh votes. In the southern-most tip of Gosaba too Trinamul has a healthy lead of over 1.41 lakh votes. In the remaining too constituencies, Santipur and Khardaha, the party is in a comfortable position and is unlikely to face any upheaval. TMC supremo and chief minister Mamata Banerjee took to twitter to express her happiness over the outcome of the four bypolls. In her message, she termed the verdict in favour of her party as people's victory. ”My heartiest congratulations to all the four winning candidates! This victory is people's victory, as it shows how Bengal will always choose development and unity over propaganda and hate politics. With people's blessings, we promise to continue taking Bengal to greater heights!” she said on the social media platform. The loss of the two seats is going to hit the BJP hard as it has come within Lok Sabha constituencies of the party’s two MPs, Pramanik and Jagannath Sarkar, which will keep the party worried about the Lok Sabha elections three years from now. Since the Assembly election results were declared on May 2, four MLAs from the BJP have switched sides. The outcome of the bypoll will have no impact on the political status of either parties, but would send a message for the polls to be held in the future, most notably the 2024 Lok Sabha polls. While Khardaha and Gosaba went to Trinamul in the Assembly elections, Santipur and Dinhata were won by the BJP. Two of the party MPs who had contested and won the Assemblies later resigned to retain their Lok Sabha seats. In Dinhata, the victory margin was a mere 57 votes. The BJP, which has seen an exodus of its winning candidates to the ruling Trinamul (though it can be said  in favour of the BJP that the turncoat MLAs were from Trinamul who had switched sides believing the BJP to would come to power), needs to retain the two seats it had won previously to plug the leaking boat that the BJP’s legislative party has turned into. For Mamata, on the other hand, a 4-0 result is important keeping the future in mind. In the 2024 Lok Sabha polls, if she has to be a contender for the Prime Minister’s post, the Trinamul has to do far better than it did in 2019. A repeat of the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, when Trinamul won 22 and 18 seats went to the BJP will not help her national aspirations. Mamata needs to keep the BJP in check in Bengal electorally, not politically. That is why RSS shakhas have increased in the last 10 years that the Trinamul has been in power. That is why the Trinamul is aiming for a clean sweep in these bypolls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-116
02-11-2021||West Bengal||Two factions of Trinamul clash in New Jalpaiguri, policeman injured||Two groups of Trinamul workers in New Jalpaiguri clashed with each other on Monday. As a police team reached the spot and intercepted some people, members of the other group attacked them. Amid all this, a policeman got injured, prompting the police to charge the attackers with batons. A police picket has been set up. According to residents, tension had cropped up within Inttuc supporters, Trinamul’s workers’ front, of the area to gain control of the local truck syndicate that runs in NJP, the largest railway station of north Bengal. While one of the lobbies of supporters are known to be followed to Prasenjit Roy, a former Trinamul leader who was expelled from the party after an incident of ransacking at the Inland Container Depot in NJP earlier this year, the other lobby represents those against Roy. “The truck syndicate here is running in a peaceful manner. But these past few days, some people headed by Prasenjit Roy are trying to foment tension here. Today, we got information that they planned an attack at the syndicate office and soon we intercepted a car. There were five persons inside who fled the spot. We have recovered sticks, stones, broken bottles from the vehicle,” alleged Mohammad Alauddin, president of the syndicate. In NJP, internal clashes among rival lobbies of Trinamul have been witnessed a number of times earlier. The clashes had also made Jaideep Nandi, a former Trinamul councillor, to leave the party and join BJP. It is only a few days back that Nandi has returned to Trinamul. After Nandi left BJP, Roy had been controlling the entire area but he too, was expelled from Trinamul. “Since then, his rival lobby controls the syndicate. Though officially he is not in Trinamul, he still has hundreds of supporters in the area and now it seems that they intend to take control of the syndicate,” said a source. On Monday, the groups attacked each other with bricks, stones and sticks, beating each other indiscriminately. The clash led to tension outside the station premises, prompting shopkeepers to down their shutters. Some shops and motorcycles were also vandalised As the news spread, a team from NJP police station arrested some people and were about to put them in a police vehicle when the other group attacked them. Soon, more police forces reached the area and resorted to lathi-charge. The injured cop is under treatment at Siliguri district hospital. Five persons have been arrested so far. Prasenjit, however, has denied the charge. “I have not turned up in the NJP area for months now. I have no inkling as who all were involved in the incident,” he said. The clash, Trinamul insiders said, has been a loss of face for the party. “Such incidents only tarnish the party’s image. We don’t know when such incidents will stop,” said a senior leader. Nirjal Dey, the Darjeeling district Inttuc president, was brief in his reaction and said that they are gathering information of the incident. “The police have started an investigation. We are also obtaining information and if anybody is found guilty, we will take necessary steps,” he said. Police team attacked Meanwhile, in another incident, a police team that went to rescue a person who was reported detained by a group of people was attacked at a village under Bansihari police station of South Dinajpur district on Monday. Monojit Sarkar, inspector-in-charge of the police station and at least four other policemen have suffered injuries. The attackers have also damaged a police vehicle. Sources said Sheikh, a resident of Tepirdaha village, was having problems with one of his neighbours over some trifle issue. On Monday, a kangaroo court was convened at the village to settle the issue. It was alleged that some people there detained Sheikh and told him that he can’t leave the place unless the issue is resolved. As police got the information, a team went to the village. This left a section of villagers angry who demanded that the police should leave the spot. Suddenly, they attacked the team which left the policemen injured. After some time, more police personnel were sent to the area and they brought the situation under control. No arrests have been made so far. Investigations have started. Additional reporting by Kousik Sen in Raiganj||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-116
02-11-2021||West Bengal||Leader’s memory joins Trinamul and Congress in Malda||Amid the increasing bitterness between Congress and Trinamul, leaders of both parties came together on Monday to pay tribute to Congress patriarch A.B.A. Ghani Khan Choudhury on his 95th birth anniversary. Trinamul Rajya Sabha MP Mausam Noor, party’s former district chairman Abu Naser Khan Choudhury, senior Trinamul leader Dulal Sarkar walked with Congress MP Abu Hasem Khan Choudhury, and Congress leaders Isha Khan Choudhury, Mottakin Alam and others. They offered flowers to the tomb of the towering Congress leader fondly called Barkatda, at Kotwali, the ancestral home of the Khan Choudhury family located on the outskirts of Malda town. Since 2019, fissures had cropped up within the family as Noor left Congress and jointed Trinamul. Over the past couple of years, she and her party leaders observed Ghani Khan Choudhury’s birth anniversary separately. She did not join her uncle and cousin (Abu Hasem and Isha Khan) in the function. “Despite staying in the same house, she did not join them. In fact, she had built a separate entrance to enter the house. Today (Monday), however, a different scene was witnessed as not only Mausam Noor, but her party leaders too, joined the Congress leaders to observe the day,” said a political observer. Recently, relations between Congress and Trinamul have turned bitter. While on one hand, state Congress chief and MP Adhir Ranjan Choudhury has fumed at Mamata Banerjee and her party for allegedly helping the BJP , the Trinamul supremo has also come up with rebuttals. Even on Monday, she criticised the Congress while speaking at an event in Calcutta. In such a time, amity between the two political camps here was a rare sight. As all of them reached Ghani’s tomb, Noor, who stood next to her uncle Abu Hasem, was seen offering the tray of flowers to him. Later, leaders of both parties also reached to Rathbari, a prominent crossing in Malda town, and offered homage to Ghani’s statue that has been installed there by the Englishbazar municipality some years back. “He (Ghani Khan Choudhury) never divided people on the lines of politics or religion. He was truly a secular personality. So people of all parties observed his birth anniversary together. There is nothing wrong in it,” said Noor. Senior party leaders Krishnendu Narayan Choudhury and Dulal Sarkar also echoed her. “We are into politics for him. He is an ideal for us and our leader Mamata Banerjee too, has huge respects for him,” said Sarkar. Leaders of Congress, too, sounded mellowed. “Ghani Khan Choudhury never left Congress but at the same time, he treated the opposition parties with due dignity. This is why even the leaders of other political parties have felt the urge to pay homage to him,” said Isha Khan Choudhury, Ghani’s nephew and a former Congress MLA.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-116
02-11-2021||West Bengal||Diagnostic hubs under scanner for sex determination tests||The state health department has decided to appoint a private agency to map various public and private diagnostic centres and hospitals across the state to keep tab on the facilities as new technologies for sex determination test are now available. Senior health officials of the state government on Monday announced the decision during a workshop on Pre-conception and Pre-natal Diagnostic Technique (PC PNDT) Act being held in Santiniketan with health officials of four Bengal districts—Birbhum, Hooghly, East and West Burdwan. Health officials said the state government had decided on the move after the Union health and family welfare ministry sent a list of newly introduced techniques for sex determination including PCR (polymerase chain reaction). The RT-PCR machine, which is used to detect Covid-19, is a variant of PCR and has an added step of reverse transcription of RNA (ribonucleic acid) to DNA (deoxyribonucleic acid). This reverse transcription of RNA to DNA can be used to determine the sex of a foetus. “Several new techniques are now available to determine sex of foetus. If these techniques are used, it might increase the rate of abortion of girl child. The agency will map diagnostic centres that have techniques to detect the sex of a foetus and we will bring those units under PC and PNDC Acts. These centres will also be under regular vigil of the health department,” said a senior health department officer present at the workshop. “As machines can determine the DNA of a foetus, the RT-PCR machines can be used to detect sex. There are around 120 RT-PCR machines in Bengal that were introduced to test Covid cases. We will bring those under our radar,” he added. Officials said several private sector hospitals and diagnostic centres had bought RT-PCR machines. The officials said it was necessary to keep a vigil on these machines once the pandemic ended. Additional director or health services and state nodal officer of PC PNDT Act in Bengal, Kajal Mondal, and joint secretary (law), health department, Subhankar Sen were among senior officials who conducted the workshop. At the workshop, the officials said the districts did not report incidents of MTP (medical termination of pregnancies) in private sectors during the Covid period. “We know the officials in districts were very busy to combat the pandemic but it is very alarming that most of the districts did not report MTPs in private hospitals. Such slackness will increase the rate of abortion,” said another official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-116
02-11-2021||West Bengal||Civic body to repair roads and revamp water body in Alipurduar||The civic body of Alipurduar has drawn up a plan to improve roads and revive water bodies across the town. Sources said from Tuesday extensive repair works of the roads — altogether 48 of them — will commence start in the town. During the past few months, condition of these roads which connect different localities of Alipurduar have worsened, especially after the monsoon. Such road conditions have also led to a number of minor accidents. “We had planned to start the repair work from last month but could not do so as supply of pebbles had halted because of the restriction imposed by the state over extraction of minor minerals from riverbeds. Now that the supply has resumed, the repair works will start tomorrow (Tuesday). We have identified 48 roads and the damaged stretches and will ensure that the repairs are made at the earliest. Around Rs 1.70 crore would be spent on the repair works,” said Prasenjit Kar, chairperson of the board of administrators of Alipurduar municipality. Along with the roads, the civic body has identified six water bodies in the town. These would be cleaned and also landscaping be done at the banks. “People use these water bodies for different purposes. We want to keep those clean. Also, the banks would be improved for conservation of these water bodies,” said a source in the civic body. Such decisions by the board of administrators have been made to draw support from people ahead of the civic polls, opined a senior political leader of the town. Like many other municipalities of the state, elections are due in Alipurduar for quite some time now. “Trinamul was in power at the civic body and a number of demands of the residents still remain unfulfilled. That is why the authorities have planned to repair roads and clean the water bodies as the elections are ahead. Also, the ruling party is desperate to regain the civic body, especially because the BJP has bagged the Alipurduar Assembly seat this time,” the leader said. It may be mentioned that other than Darjeeling, Alipurduar is the second such district in Bengal where the saffron party has bagged all (five) the Assembly seats. As per the data, Trinamul had lagged behind the BJP in 19 of 20 wards in the Assembly elections.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-116
02-11-2021||West Bengal||Bangladesh unrest hits exports||The export of goods to Bangladesh via the Mahadipur land port in Malda district has been hit during the past few days as many truck drivers and cleaners are reluctant to cross the international border after the recent unrest in the neighbouring country. The rigorous checking of trucks by the Border Security Force (BSF), which has beefed up its vigil under the given circumstances, has also slowed the movement of trucks. Mahadipur, which is around 20 kilometres from the district headquarters of Malda, is one of the prominent land ports of Bengal. Usually, around 325 trucks, carrying stone chips, onions, corns, spices and fruits, enter Bangladesh through Mahadipur six days a week, except Friday. “On an average, goods worth around 24.45 lakh USD are being exported through this border every day. But ever since the unrest in Bangladesh, there has been a decrease in the number of trucks as some truck drivers are worried about their own security and do not want to get into the neighbouring country. These days, only 250-odd trucks are going to Bangladesh,” said Prasenjit Ghosh, a representative of Mahadipur Exporters’ Association. Bhupati Mandal, secretary of the Mahadipur Clearing & Forwarding Agents’ Welfare Association, said the drivers were panicky. “Some are ready to ferry the goods till the border but want us to shift the goods to some other truck so that it can be exported to Bangladesh. We are talking to them and there is even a plan to conduct counselling sessions with the help of the administration, police and the BSF so that they do not feel discouraged to drive trucks beyond the international border,” Mandal said. He also said that BSF has tightened its vigil on the trucks at Mahadipur. “It is taking longer than the usual and hence fewer trucks are moving to Bangladesh. But we have no objection as the BSF personnel are performing their duties,” he added. The overall situation has left the exporters in trouble. Those ready to cross the border are asking for higher rates. Added to it is the hike in diesel price, which is further increasing their costs. “We have to bear additional costs. The rates are fixed there beforehand and we cannot ask for higher rates from (Bangladesh clients),” said an exporter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-116
02-11-2021||West Bengal||Anit Thapa’s party forms panel on political solution||The Anit Thapa led Bharatiya Gorkha Prajatantrik Morcha (BGPM) started their exercise to contest the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA) election and announced the formation of seven-member committee to look into “permanent political solution (PPS)”, following recent announcements by chief minister Mamata Banerjee on these two issues. During an official review meeting held in Kurseong on October 26, Mamata said that elections to the GTA would be held after the revision of electoral polls is over. She also announced the formation of a steering committee consisting of Anit Thapa and Amar Singh Rai from BGPM, Roshan Giri from the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha and Gautam Deb from Trinamul Congress to on a permanent political solution for the region. “Following the chief minister’s recent announcements, we decided to hold this emergency meeting to discuss GTA elections and seek feedback and suggestions from our central committee leaders,” said Amar Lama, general secretary, BGPM. Since the revision of electoral roll will be completed on January 5, elections to GTA – which are due since 2017, could be held as early as by January-end, many BGPM party leaders felt. A seven-member committee comprising Lama and other party leaders, Amar Singh Rai, D.K. Pradhan, Jyoti Kumar Rai, Ruden Sada Lepcha, Tshering Dahal and Trilok Roka was also formed to look into making concrete the party’s version of the permanent political solition. “After Diwali, the committee will reach out to a cross-section of the people to seek their opinions on the PPS (permanent political solution),” said Lama. The party general secretary also said they were looking for more clarity on the steering committee. “The chief minister made a sweeping remark about the formation of steering committee consisting of four leaders, we feel that some more clarity need to be sought,” said Lama. Mamata is scheduled to visit Darjeeling again next month. The BGPM is looking at clarity on the possible “terms of reference” of the steering committee and whether a coordinator could be appointed for coordination among the hill parties. “Not just the three parties (BGPM, GJM and Trinamul), we are hoping that all other hill parties are also brought on board to discuss the PPS. This is just our thought as some parties are also engaging with Centre for their PPS,” said Lama. In September, the Centre held talks with BJP allies from hills to find a permanent political solution for the hills. Mamata also said that her party would find a permanent political solution for the hills and hence, the formation of steering committee had been announced at the Kurseong meeting last week.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-116
02-11-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul puts Rajib Banerjee in charge of Tripura||Trinamul turncoat and former state minister Rajib Banerjee, who left the BJP after a nine-month stint and rejoined Mamata Banerjee’s party in Agartala on Sunday,  is set to be the party’s Tripura in-charge. Rajib will “camp” in Tripura for at least 25 days a month till the 2023 Assembly polls. Trinamul general secretary Abhishek Banerjee said this during the steering committee meeting of the state unit that followed his Sunday rally in Agartala. Ashish Lal Singh, a senior member of Trinamul’s Tripura state unit, told this paper on Monday: “Our national general secretary Abhishekji said at the meeting that Rajibji will be our state in-charge. He also revealed Rajibji will be staying in the state for at least at least 25 days a month till the 2023 polls. Abhishekji will be visiting the state thrice a month. This shows how focussed is our party to form the government in 2023 and end BJP’s misrule.” Tripura goes to polls in 2023 where Trinamul is eyeing to wrest from the ruling BJP-IPFT combine. Trinamul is seeking electoral inroads in Tripura and Goa which could help it position itself as a key player in the 2024 Lok Sabha polls. A Tripura watcher said Trinamul’s move to “station” Rajib in the state reminded them of Sunil Deodhar, then BJP’s Tripura in-charge, hailed as the architect of the safron party’s victory in the 2018 polls, ending the Left's uninterrupted 25-year-rule. “Deodhar played a huge role in ensuring BJP’s victory. Usually a state in-charge  flies in and out but he camped in Tripura for nearly two-and-a-half years. Trinamul too wants its in-charge to be present in the state and work closely with state leaders,” he said Trinamul’s immediate test will be the November 25 urban body polls in the state. The BJP has, however, dismissed Trinamul as a non-factor. “We doubt if Trinamul can open its account. They have no local support. Will they contest the polls by bringing in people from Bengal? People of Tripura know about Trinamul atrocities in Bengal,” BJP spokesperson Nabendu Bhattacharya said. Along with Rajib, first-time Tripura BJP MLA Ashis Das, 42, who also joined Trinamul during Abhishek’s Sunday rally in Agartala, told this paper he decided to leave the BJP because it “failed” to implement its pre-poll promises in 2018, Tripura’s prevailing “misrule” and the “sidelining of most” BJP members who worked hard to install the party in power. The Surma MLA of Tripura’s Dhalai district is yet to resign from the BJP. He is expected to get an “important” post in Trinamul, sources said. Abhishek left for Calcutta around 7.30pm on Sunday and Rajib on Monday. Rajib will be back in Tripura after Kali Puja, sources said. Trinamul’s state unit continued to tweet important portions of Abhishek’s Sunday speech on Monday too.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-117
02-11-2021||West Bengal||Jalpaiguri plans to start informal classes||Authorities of the District Primary School Council (DPSC) and district primary education department of Jalpaiguri have requested teachers of the state-aided primary schools across Jalpaiguri district to conduct classes for students in an informal manner. Lakhyamohan Roy, the DPSC chairman, said that the primary schools are closed for the past 20 months and there was no indication as to when those will commence. “Also, no mechanism of online education has been evolved for the students of these schools. As a result, a considerable number of students are not studying on a regular basis. That is why, we are requesting the teachers to hold informal classes somewhere near their schools in small groups by following Covid safety protocols,” Roy added. Nripatibhusan Roy, a senior schoolteacher who is also a president medal awardee, said: “Students of primary classes learn mostly in schools and study little at home. But now that the schools are closed, there is doubt as to how many of them are studying regularly and learning lessons which they were supposed to learn in classes. The problem is not such for private schools where online classes are being held. It would be good if the teachers can take such an initiative to conduct informal classes near schools.” There are 1,214 government-aided primary schools in Jalpaiguri district and altogether, around 1.60 lakh students study in these schools. Officials of the district primary education department said they have already started holding meetings with primary teachers of the district. “I, along with the DPSC chairman and other officers of my department, have started visiting different areas of the district. We are holding meetings with teachers and asking them to find a place near the school where they can call students for classes. The idea is to initiate the classroom practice so that students do not lag behind in studies,” said Shyamal Roy, the district inspector of schools (primary). The teachers who are attending the meetings are also being asked to explore options as to how such informal classes can be conducted. “The students can be divided into groups and can be called for classes on alternative days or at least twice a week so that physical distancing and other Covid norms are maintained,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-117
02-11-2021||West Bengal||Bengal logs 725 new Covid cases, 867 recoveries and 8 deaths||Bengal on Monday reported 725 new Covid-19 cases, 867 recoveries and eight deaths, resulting in a dip by 150 in its active cases to 8,146. Since Bengal snapped out of a 97-day streak of fall in active cases or number of Covid patients under treatment on September 26, there has been a net rise of 472 in active cases, from the 7,674 of September 25. A minister said the new infections reported on Monday were indicative of people who got infected in the October 23 (three days after Lakshmi Puja) and 27. Calcutta, North and South 24-Parganas, Howrah, Hooghly and Nadia accounted for 531 – 73.24 per cent – of the new infections detected on Monday. Calcutta reported 205 new infections, the only one of the state’s 23 districts with a three-digit figure of new cases in a day. Seven districts reported a single-digit figure. Seventeen districts reported zero deaths. Calcutta reported one death and North 24-Parganas reported two. The state’s mortality rate is 1.2, while that of the nation is 1.34 per cent. Bengal now has over 15.93 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was logged in March last year. The total includes over 15.66 lakh recoveries and 19,149 casualties.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-117
02-11-2021||West Bengal||Adhir Chowdhury and Mamata Banerjee trade charges||Bengal Congress chief Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury on Monday alleged that the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, BJP’s ideological parent, multiplied the number of its shakhas or branches manifold in the state under the Trinamul regime. “Trinamul and the BJP have the same DNA. It is during the Trinamul government (tenure) in the last 10 years that the RSS has increased its shakhas in the state,” he said, possibly in response to Trinamul’s blistering attacks on the Congress’s alleged failure to contain the BJP. Between 2013 and 2020, the number of RSS shakhas in Bengal grew from 820 to 1,600. He asked why Mamata had allied with the BJP in the past. Mamata addressed the issues later. “We used to do Congress (Mamata cut her political teeth with the Congress). Why did we leave them? Because they cheated us, cheated the people. We quit the (Congress-led) UPA. Why...Because there was a hike in the price of (cooking) gas every day... How did they support the CPM, which was our biggest enemy?” she asked. She added: “We had once gone into an alliance with the (BJP-led) NDA based on a common minimum programme… Our first condition was that someone from a different religion cannot be harmed.” Mamata added her party was forced to venture into other states as the Congress cannot be trusted anymore. “Since Narendra Modi came to power, has the Congress ever put up a fight?” she asked. Trinamul MP Saugata Roy said RSS’s growth can’t be linked to Trinamul. “The BJP is at the Centre and facilitating the growth of the RSS,” he said. The war of words, which started in the morning with Chowdhury's comments, continued till this evening as the state Congress president tossed up questions for Mamata in reply to her comments. “She is deceiving herself. Why didn’t she realise the Congress’s mistakes in 2011, when she went into an alliance with the Congress to remove the CPM from power?” he asked. “Bengal’s chief minister has taken supaari from BJP to finish the Congress. Otherwise why does she use 100 words against the Congress and none against BJP? Astonishing.” A political observer said it was clear that Chowdhury attacked Mamata in response to her recent comments about the Congress’s inability in taking on the BJP. Since early August, Congress has been attacked on more than two dozen occasions by Mamata, her nephew Abhishek and Trinamul’s mouthpiece Jago Bangla. The most scathing attack came from Mamata on Saturday while speaking to journalists in Goa on the last day of her three-day trip in the western state where Trinamul will contest the 2022 state polls. “Modiji is going to be more powerful because of the Congress... Congress is the BJP's TRP…,”she had said in Goa. Sources in the state unit of the Congress said that the volley of attacks didn't go down well with the Congress high command in Delhi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-117
02-11-2021||West Bengal||Families of 22 men in Kashmir worry since killings of migrant workers||The families of 22 men from Bahalnagar village in Murshidabad, who went to work in Jammu and Kashmir’s apple orchards for the harvest season, are spending sleepless nights since the killings of migrant workers by suspected militants. Of around 100 men who went to the Valley for the season, the 22 are yet to return. In October 2019, two months after the Narendra Modi government revoked the special status granted to Jammu and Kashmir, five men from Bahalnagar, were shot dead in Kashmir’s Kulgam by suspected militants. The village of over 3,000 residents in Sagardighi earlier would send at least 500 men every harvest season to the apple orchards of the Valley. The numbers dwindled since 2019. Most migrant workers nowadays prefer to go to the southern states for work. Bahalnagar’s Naitun Bibi, 57, is eagerly waiting for the Jammu Tawi Express sometime later this week. On board will be her husband Meraj Sheikh, 60, along with nine others from the village. Naitun lost the oldest of her four sons, Naimuddin Sheikh, 42, in 2019 to bullets in  Kulgam. “I am yet to get over the grief of losing my son. Now, there is this fear for my husband’s life, again in an apple orchard of Kashmir,” she said. The group of 10 is currently stranded in Rajouri and were employed in Chitragam, barely 25km from Kulgam. Tens of thousands from Murshidabad and Malda used to go to the Valley’s apple orchards every year to earn better in orchards and carpet-making units. They got Rs 15,000-22,000 a month, besides free accommodation and food, from local employers known for their kindness and hospitality. At home, they can on an average earn Rs 6,000 a month  agricultural labourers. Twenty-eight-year-old Sattar Sheikh, the youngest of the four sons of Naitun and Meraj, said from Bahalnagar that he would never let his father leave home again. “Before what happened to Dada (Naimuddin), I used to go to Kashmir for seasonal work for around 10 years. But since that tragedy, I haven’t gone. I had repeatedly asked Baba (Meraj) not to go,” he said. “But he kept saying that the work there is very easy, the pay is good… that he knows everyone there, that the employers are incredibly kind... He went. If he returns safely this time, we will never let him leave again,” he added. A group of seven was the last that managed to return to Bahalnagar on October 26. It included Ebadur Rahaman, 38, who rued that he was jobless at home. “We had to run back home because of fear. Because militants are abducting and killing migrant workers again, we heard…. Initially, we were not paying much heed, but the local superintendent of police came and told us to get out as soon as possible. So we rushed out,” he said. “I don’t know about others, but I will never go there again…. I really will miss the work there though.” Jangipur police district’s chief Y. Raghuvamshi said the migrant workers usually do not report to the police when they leave or return. “We found out about some such returns and sought inputs by sending officials to the village. We are keeping tabs,” he said. The 2019 tragedy led to a steady stream of VIPs, including chief minister Mamata Banerjee, visiting the village. These days, however, no visitor comes to enquire about the families. But villagers are grateful that at least the roads built for the VIPs in 2019 are permanent. Other than for Kamruddin and Rafiqul families – with no eligible surviving members – the state government ensured jobs for the kin. The local Trinamul Congress leadership purportedly helps the two “overlooked” families with some financial assistance every month. “All the families have been paid large amounts by the government and various NGOs,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-117
02-11-2021||West Bengal||Mother bear and cub take a Sunday stroll at Darjeeling’s Mall||A Himalayan black bear and her cub sauntered lazily at Darjeeling’s famed Mall area in the wee hours of Sunday when roads were deserted. Footage captured by CCTV cameras of Sanderling Resort around 2.30am suggest the mother-cub duo came from Tourist Lodge area, walked around the Darjeeling Gymkhana Club premises before taking the club’s tennis court pathway to enter the Mahakal Baba temple premises on the Mall. The Tourist Lodge-Sanderling-Gymkhana properties are barely 200m away from Chowrasta, the town’s famous square. Forest officials feel that both the bears are still in the area. “We had enquired from  the night guards but none seems to have spotted the bears,” said Sangay Tshering, managing director, Sanderling Resort. S.S.S.S. Sherpa, divisional forest officer, Darjeeling Wildlife Division said that the bears were first spotted around 10 days back at Muldara area, about 2km  from the Mall. “Since there is a cub, which could be about four to five months old, we are trying to use passive measures to push the animal into the fringe jungles instead of looking at tranquilising or capturing it in a cage. We managed to push the animals to the nearby forest earlier. However, all options are being weighed,” said Sherpa. About a fortnight back another Himalayan bear had been captured by foresters and released in the wild near Lebong, about 4km downhill from  the Mall. The mother-cub duo have not attacked human or other domesticated animals till now. However, foresters maintain that people should be alert because of the cub. In February 2004, a Himalayan black bear had to be shot dead after it killed 16 goats, four dogs, two calves, a bull and scores of chickens at Takdah, about 35km from Darjeeling. Himalayan black bears normally dwell in hilly forest tracts at a height of 10,000 feet or above but descend downhill till altitudes of 5,000 feet during winters for mating and before going into hibernation. Darjeeling town is situated at around 6,700 feet. A census conducted about 5 years ago had come to the conclusion that there could be about seven to 15 bears in the jungles adjoining Darjeeling town. “The animals’ foray into urban habitation could also be an indication of the poor garbage disposal system in the town. The food in garbage vats might be attracting the animals,” said Sherpa.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-117
02-11-2021||West Bengal||Tiger attack on crab hunter spurs job talks||A 40-year-old woman who had entered the restricted tiger zone to catch crabs at Patharpratima of South 24Parganas on Sunday night, was injured by a royal Bengal tiger. The attack on Kajal Mallik comes on the heels of another one on Saturday where fisherman Panchanan Bhakta was injured by a tiger. These incidents have led foresters to plan a meeting on November 5 with the local MLA and district officials to discuss alternative jobs for some 3,000 people who depend on the forests and waters of Sunderbans. Foresters said the number of tiger attacks has increased as more people are entering restricted areas illegally. “Some people, mainly belonging to the tribes and residing in islands or villages of the Sunderbans enter the forest without permission to eke out a living. So, will hold a meeting with local authorities, including panchayat and district officials, to arrange alternative livelihood options for such people,” said Milan Mandal, the divisional forest officer of South 24Parganas. Kajal, a resident of Satyadaspur village of Patharpratima in South 24Parganas, along with five others including her husband Subal, had gone to the restricted forest of Kalash island to catch crabs. Foresters said the group was having dinner on their boat around 8.30pm on Sunday when a royal Bengal tiger pounced on Kajal and attempted to drag her away inside the forest. For around 30 minutes, the others, including her husband, fought the big cat with oars and sticks till the tiger left. Kajal, who received injuries on her hand, neck and face, was taken to Patharpratima primary hospital. Foresters said they had done a survey to find around 3,000 people who are not traditional fishermen depend on the forests of the Sunderbans. “They are mostly from the tribes and collect honey, crabs or firewood. They never bother about permission. The only way is for the government to arrange alternative livelihood means for them,” said a senior forest department official. Samir Jana, Trinamul MLA of Patharpratima, admitted the man-animal conflict and promised to attend the meeting for a long-term solution to this problem. “It has become a regular event here that people are being injured or killed by tigers. I will talk to local panchayat and forest officials to find out if they can provide alternative jobs in a safe zone to these people,” he said. In October, the Sunderbans tiger reserve authorities had banned fishing in and around Jhila forest areas after three persons were dragged away by tigers in four consecutive days. Forest officials said man-animal conflict had increased in the Sunderbans also because people were desperate to enter the core forest areas of the tiger reserve for their livelihood since the Covid lockdowns had rendered many people jobless.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-117
