03-11-2021||West Bengal||Bengal: Several trains cancelled as villagers block tracks in Nadia for 33hrs||Several trains were cancelled as protestors blocked the tracks at Jalalkhali Halt station in Nadia district for around 33 hours, demanding stoppage of all trains passing through it, an Eastern Railway official said on Wednesday. The blockade, which started on Tuesday morning, continued till Wednesday afternoon, disrupting train services in the Ranaghat-Lalgola section of the Sealdah division. The agitators claimed that residents of around 15 villages in the area depend on train services from the station, but only a few trains stop there. "The blockade was lifted after discussions with the agitators," ER spokesperson Ekalabya Chakraborty said. Train services resumed after lifting of the blockade, he said. He said that Jalalkhali being a halt station, it is not possible that all trains would stop there, but stoppage of a few more trains for the convenience of passengers will be explored. He said that 12 EMU locals on the Sealdah-Krishnanagar line and at least two express trains connecting Sealdah and Lalgola were cancelled on Wednesday owing to the agitation. At least six pairs of EMU locals were short-terminated at Badkulla station and short-originated from there to Sealdah, Chakraborty said. "People of around 15 villages depend on the station, but we have to either travel to Badkulla or Krishnanagar to avail trains since only a few stop at Jalalkhali," said one of the agitators.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-115
03-11-2021||West Bengal||Suspected Bangladesh-based Mujahideen terrorist arrested in Bengal||National Investigation Agency sleuths have arrested a suspected terrorist of Jamaat-ul-Mujahideen Bangladesh from West Bengal's South 24 Parganas district, an official said on Wednesday. Acting on a tip-off, a team of NIA personnel conducted a search operation in Subhasgram area on Tuesday and apprehended the Bangladeshi national, he said. "Fake voter and Aadhaar cards have been seized from his possession. He is being interrogated. We are trying to find out how and when he entered into India," the official told PTI. Several documents related to the terror group were seized from his possession, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-115
03-11-2021||West Bengal||Mamata’s party prevents BJP from opening bypoll account in Bengal||September 30:  3-0; October 30: 4-0. Mamata Banerjee’s party has prevented the BJP from opening its bypoll account by inflicting back-to-back defeats within a month and wresting Dinhata and Santipur the challenger had won in the summer elections. The icing on the cake came in the form of a record. In Dinhata, Trinamul’s Udayan Guha won by a margin of 164,089 votes — an all-time record for an Assembly seat in Bengal. In Gosaba, Trinamul’s Subrata Mondal won by 143,051 votes. They smashed the record (130,163) set by Trinamul’s Mohammed Abdul Ghani in Sujapur in the summer. The outcome was so crushing that the BJP candidates forfeited their deposits in three of the four seats. Except in Santipur, the party polled less than one-sixth of the valid votes. (See Page 5) Some analysts interpreted the results as an outright rejection of Hindutva politics, especially since the BJP had tried hard to make the Durga Puja attacks in Bangladesh an election issue. Others viewed the outcome as the vindication of Mamata’s focus on a slew of social welfare programmes. “My heartiest congratulations to all the four winning candidates!” tweeted the Trinamul Congress chief at 1.02pm, by which time the trends were clearly pointing to yet another emphatic sweep for her party. Trinamul’s tally in the 294-seat Bengal Assembly rose from 213 on May 2 to 217 in exactly six months on Tuesday. The ruling party also enjoys the support of five MLAs who have defected from the BJP and are yet to resign or be disqualified as members of the House, besides that of an Independent MLA from the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha’s Binay Tamang faction. The BJP slid from 77 to 70 in the same six-month window. Mamata said: “This victory is people’s victory, as it shows how Bengal will always choose development and unity over propaganda and hate politics. With people’s blessings, we promise to continue taking Bengal to greater heights.” “A cracker free Diwali in true sense. Wishing folks at @BJP4India a very Happy Diwali! (An emoticon signifying an explosion),” tweeted Trinamul’s national general-secretary Abhishek Banerjee. It became clearer with the results that the Bengal electorate had found no new incentive in the autumnal bypolls to vote for a party in the Opposition, especially for the BJP that was already dismissed in the election this summer. “We were fearing exactly this. That is why there was so much resistance from us to the Election Commission of India scheduling these bypolls now. A 0-7 scoreline makes us look horribly bad. More so, as our non-stop claims of the certainty of a 200-plus tally remain vivid in public memory,” admitted a BJP state unit functionary on the condition of anonymity. “The defeats this time, perhaps, could have still been pitched as respectable had our vote share not nose-dived in six months in all four seats,” he added. The BJP cried foul and alleged malpractice. But some analysts pointed out that such victory margins could not have been achieved solely on the basis of poll vitiation in this day and age of virtually 24x7 media scrutiny. “Mamata’s implementation of populist schemes — such as Lakshmir Bhandar, the monthly basic income initiative for women — has had a direct, substantial impact on these bypolls,” said Subhamoy Maitra, a professor of the Indian Statistical Institute. Psephologist Biswanath Chakraborty said although there was little scope for long-term inferences on the basis of bypolls in a handful of seats, the results indicated further rejection of the saffron camp’s politics of polarisation. “There remains little doubt that the people have effectively rejected the BJP. This clearly shows that a vast majority of the Bengal’s electorate does not want to repose faith in the party right now. These bypolls indicate, beyond reasonable doubt, a complete rejection of the BJP… an outright dismissal of Hindutva by the masses of Bengal,” said Chakraborty, professor at Rabindra Bharati University. “Having said that, there was no need for the party (Trinamul) to leave room for the blame of electoral malpractice, which some aspects of these mega margins suggest,” he added. Some sources in the BJP attributed Trinamul’s triumph to its firm stand against communal polarisation and division of the state. “Many in our party had assumed that in the wake of the communal unrest in Bangladesh, we will make windfall gains in the bypolls. Our leaders had also tried to utilise it as a key bypoll plank in Bengal. But that, up against Trinamul’s inclusive and pluralistic campaign, did not yield the desired results for us,” said a BJP insider. “Mamata’s campaign against allowing further division of the state also seems to have worked against us in Dinhata,” he added, referring to the increasing noise of outlandish demands from the saffron camp — yet to come to terms with the summer’s historic rejection by the Bengal electorate — for a trifurcation of the state by culling out parts such as north Bengal and Jungle Mahal that voted in favour of the BJP and giving them separate BJP-led governments. “The decision by the Centre to extend the BSF’s jurisdiction was also an important issue in Dinhata that did not do us any favours,” the BJP insider said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-115
03-11-2021||West Bengal||Tenzing’s boots now inspire strides to clean Everest||On May 29, 1953, Tenzing Norgay Sherpa stood on the highest peak on earth wearing specially designed boots made of reindeer leather by the famous Swiss company Bally. Sherpa along with New Zealander Sir Edmund Hillary were the first men to scale Mount Everest, which spurred many climbers, men and women, to replicate their success. More than 5,500 climbers have climbed Everest in the last 68 years. In 2019, Nirmal Purja, a climber from Nepal had taken the famous photograph of a “traffic jam” at Everest showing climbers standing cheek by jowl in a queue waiting for their turn to stand atop the peak. The rush has taken a toll on the mountains in the form of piling garbage, including tin cans, tents, oxygen climbers and other waste. Many call Mt Everest the “world’s highest junkyard”. Come Thursday, Bally and the Sherpa family will join hands once again, this time to clean the garbage from Mt Everest region. Jamling Tenzing Norgay, the legendary Tenzing’s son, also climbed Everest in 1996. “Bally through its Bally Peak Outlook Foundation has joined hands with us once again and this time it is to collect garbage from the Everest region and we are looking to collect around 1,000 kg of waste over the next two weeks,” said Jamling, who will be joined by his daughter, Pelzom, 23, and about 30 to 35 odd climbers. He said his father’s association with Bally started with the unsuccessful Swiss expedition of 1952. “Bally had specially designed the boots for my father for the 1952 Swiss expedition and he used the same boots in the 1953 expedition. While commemorating the 60th anniversary of the first Everest climb, Bally had again come up with a wearable replica of my father’s shoes,” Jamling told this paper. The original pair of boots are on display at the Himalayan Mountaineering Institute museum in Darjeeling. The Bally foundation’s initiative is part of the “8 x 8000m” pledge to clean up base camps of eight 8,000m high Himalayan mountains. In 2020, climber Dawa Steven Sherpa had removed 2.2 tonnes of waste from base camps of Everest (8,848m), Cho Oyu (8,188m), Lhotse (8,516m) and Makalu (8,485m). “Last year I was only involved with the organising aspects but this time I will be climbing and participating in the drive,” said Jamling. The cleaning drive will be undertaken around the passes of Thame village in Nepal, which is a native village of not just Tenzing but also some famous mountaineers like Kami Rita Sherpa and Apa Sherpa, climbers who have scaled Mt Everest the most times. “Reusable items will be sent to Kathmandu while the rest will be incinerated at Namche Bazaar, (near the Everest base camp) with help from Sagarmatha Pollution Control Committee,” said Jamling.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-115
03-11-2021||West Bengal||Tea industry nudges Centre on coal crisis||Representatives of tea planters in north Bengal and Assam have sought the immediate intervention of the Narendra Modi government to address the shortage in coal supply at the tea estates and the rise in their cost of production. In tea gardens, coal is required extensively for processing tea leaves in the factories, which include withering, rolling and drying. “Earlier, coal was supplied (to the tea gardens) from Meghalaya and from North Eastern Coalfields. But supply has stopped from both these sources following directives issued on environmental grounds. As a result, the gardens have to depend on the coal supplied from Raniganj and Asansol and because of paucity in supply even imported from Indonesia. As a result, the cost of production has really shot up,” said Prabir Bhattacharjee, the secretary general of the Tea Association of India (TAI). Earlier, coal was available at Rs 8,000 per metric tonne. Now, one has to pay around Rs 20,000 per metric tonne, Bhattacharjee said. “That’s a 1.5 times hike,” he said. Tea manufacturing requires a lot of coal, said stakeholders. Sources in the tea sector said that out of the total requirement of energy, around 21 per cent is of electrical energy and rest is supplied by conventional fuels, mainly coal. “A conservative estimation shows around 1.125 kilos of coal is needed to make one kilo of tea. Now, if we go by the tea production of Bengal and Assam, around 8.79 lakh tonnes of coal is required for unhindered manufacturing of tea in these two states. We have already written to the Centre, seeking necessary help for the industry,” Bhattacharjee added. The issue has also made Raju Bista, the BJP MP of Darjeeling, write to Prahlad Joshi, Union minister of coal and mines. Tea trade union leaders are also worried about the paucity of coal and rising cost of production, all of which affect the workers. “The central government should immediately see to it that adequate coal is supplied to the tea industry that gives jobs to lakhs. Any disruption in tea production because of coal shortage can affect the industry and its workforce which is undesirable,” said Mani Kumar Darnal, a senior trade union leader of Dooars.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-115
03-11-2021||West Bengal||Bidi-rolling part of Sohail Anwar’s NEET journey||Successful NEET aspirant Sohail Anwar, 20, knows the fundamentals of biology and bidis. A few months ago, Sohail would spend afternoons helping his mother Keshbanu Biwi, 44, roll bidis for a local manufacturer in Jadavnagar, Murshidabad. His father Bani Israel, 48, was a hawker of bedsheets in villages but lockdown dampened sales. His family’s income did not exceed Rs 10,000 a month, so everyone had to pitch in. Sohail scored an all-India 12,550 rank in the just-declared NEET medical results, scoring 616 out of the possible 720. “My brother Saeed, who is two years elder to me, has always been my inspiration,”  Sohail said on Tuesday, when asked by this paper about his success, which places him  among candidates eligible for top medical colleges in Bengal. Two years ago, Saeed secured admission to Murshidabad Medical College. Besides studies, Saeed tutors medical aspirants in Behrampore town. “Saeed and my uncle Samirul, a WBCS officer, have been a huge support and inspiration,” added Sohail, adding he misses his brother. How did he manage to crack NEET while rolling out bidis? ‘I could not prioritise on one thing, both were equally important,” says Sohail, who helped his mother in the afternoons and studying on his own in the evenings and nights. Sohail’s father Bani Israel said he was “fortunate and grateful to god” for his sons. “I have not been able to do more for my boys than give them two rooms, four brick walls and a tiled roof. I cannot ask for more than what they have already done,” Bani said softly. The head of an eight-member family, Bani feels academic success of this scale in his home “is like a dream” Sohail passed his higher secondary with 83 per cent from a high madrasa in Malda and got coached for NEET from Al-Ameen Mission,  Howrah. He devoted two years to NEET coaching. “That paid off,” he said. He added that  he will continue helping his family in their chores till the next phase of his academic career becomes clearer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-115
03-11-2021||West Bengal||Three held with narcotics worth Rs 25 lakh||Police seized 263 grams of brown sugar worth over Rs 25 lakh and arrested three persons in this connection from Hansqua bazar area, located around 15km from Siliguri, on Tuesday. In another incident, the BSF apprehended a suspected smuggler with cough syrups while he was trying to cross the Indo-Bangla border in North Dinajpur district on Monday. They also seized different items worth Rs 9.32 lakh in various raids across north Bengal on Monday and Tuesday, said sources. In Malda, police have seized 147 cartons of illegal firecrackers worth Rs 1 lakh from Netaji Municipal Market. A person has been arrested in this connection.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-115
03-11-2021||West Bengal||Bengal logs 862 new Covid-19 cases, 871 recoveries and 11 deaths||Bengal on Tuesday reported 862 new Covid-19 infections, 871 recoveries and 11 deaths, resulting in a drop by 20 in its active cases to 8,126. In the past 38 days, since Bengal snapped out of a 97-day streak of fall in active cases or Covid patients under treatment, the net rise in total active cases has been 452, from the 7,674 of September 25. A minister said new infections being reported on Monday indicated people infected between October 24 and 28. Calcutta, North and South 24-Parganas, Howrah, Hooghly and Nadia accounted for 635 or 73.67 per cent of new infections detected on Tuesday. Calcutta reported 249 new infections and North 24-Parganas 135. Both reported two deaths each. These were only two districts with a three-digit figure of new cases in a day. Six districts reported a single-digit figure. Fifteen Bengal districts reported zero deaths. Bengal’s daily Covid positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 2.2 per cent on Tuesday. The state’s recovery rate is 98.29 per cent, while that of the nation is 98.21. Its mortality rate is 1.2 per cent, while that of the nation is 1.34 per cent. Bengal now has over 15.94 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was logged in March last year, which includes over 15.67 lakh recoveries and 19,160 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-115
03-11-2021||West Bengal||Bengal bypolls: Loss of deposit rubs salt into BJP’s wound||Three of four BJP nominees who had contested the October 30 bypolls lost their deposits on Tuesday, for which Bengal BJP leaders blamed “Trinamul-sponsored terror”, in public at least. Although most BJP insiders had admitted in private on bypoll day that they didn’t expect much, the results came as a surprise as the party nominees failed to secure even one-sixth of votes polled in Khardah, Dinhata, which it won in the Assembly polls, albeit by a slender margin of 57 votes, and Gosaba, with vote shares of 13.07, 11.31 and 9.95 per cent, respectively. In Nadia’s Santipur, a seat the BJP won exactly six months ago, the party fared a little better with around 22 per cent of the polled votes. “In Dinhata and Gosaba, they (Trinamul) didn’t allow fair polling, that's why their candidates won by record margins,” said BJP’s national vice-president Dilip Ghosh at a news meet. Samik Bhattacharya, the party’s chief spokesperson in Bengal, however, spun a different narrative, saying the BJP didn’t want the bypolls when its leaders and workers had become victims of Trinamul’s terror. Since the Assembly poll results on May 2, the BJP leadership has only spoken about post-poll violence, instead of engaging in  soul-searching. The trend continued even after the bypoll results as Bhattacharya and Ghosh spoke extensively on Trinamul terror that led to the defeat of BJP nominees in Dinhata and Gosaba by 1,64,089 and 1,43,051 votes. “Just six months ago, we got 43.27 per cent votes in these four constituencies, which is down to just 14.38 per cent... If our leaders want us to believe that the dip is only because of Trinamul terror, there is little doubt they are trying to fool us,” said a state BJP leader. Another state BJP functionary said: “Our leaders can’t even lose with dignity… If they don’t learn to identify what’s wrong, how will they rectify it?” A BJP MP added: “One can swing say 10 per cent of the votes with unfair means... But we lost by such huge margins that the terror theory doesn’t sound credible enough.” A BJP leader in Santipur alleged the main problem was poor organisation. There, the party could not field agents in around 50 of the 264 booths. The other problem, he said, was a wrong poll pitch. He recalled Nandigram MLA Suvendu Adhikari claiming that attacks on Hindus in Bangladesh would trigger Santipur people to vote with more vigour for the BJP. “But it wasn’t a factor in voters’ minds,” he added. “We had got a sizable portion of Left votes in 2019 Lok Sabha and 2021 Assembly polls... Anti-Trinamul votes now seem to be going back to Left,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-116
03-11-2021||West Bengal||TMC’s Udayan Guha wins Dinhata Assembly bypoll, sets record||Trinamul’s Udayan Guha won the Dinhata Assembly bypoll on Tuesday with a whopping margin of 1.64 lakh votes, a record in Bengal’s Assembly poll history, dealing a massive blow to the BJP and its Cooch Behar MP Nisith Pramanik. Of the votes polled, Guha secured 84.15 per cent, while Ashok Mandal of the BJP had to face the humiliation of securing only 11.31 per cent votes despite the party’s polarising strategy using the recent Bangladesh unrest. Exactly six months ago on May 2, Guha lost to Pramanik by 57 polls. Pramanik vacated the seat leading to the bypoll. “The BJP miserably failed the acid test (in Dinhata, under Cooch Behar Lok Sabha seat) as its vote share came down by almost 36 per cent from the Assembly polls. In the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, the party secured 43.14 per cent,” said a political observer. The party lost even in booths where Pramanik and Mandal are voters, a source said. “Our organisational capabilities have dwindled... On poll day, we could not field agents in most of the 417 booths,” said a BJP source. As the results came up on Tuesday, district and state BJP leaders tried to blame Trinamul “terror”. Party insiders, however, pointed out two key issues that held back the saffron camp “Thousands of minorities had voted for us in past elections, along with Rajbanshis. But this time, we could not get their support. Results show that after the Assembly elections, almost three-fourths of our support base has shifted to Trinamul,” said a senior BJP functionary of Cooch Behar. Second, he said the recent notification issued by the Union home ministry that extended jurisdiction of the BSF from 15km  to 50km  within the Indian territory from the international border. The entire Dinhata seat falls within 50km.. “Trinamul leaders could explain how this would inconvenience people in Dinhata. In contrast, the BJP’s plan to highlight the unrest in Bangladesh backfired,” said a veteran in Cooch Behar politics. The results have naturally left Trinamul leaders jubilant in Cooch Behar, where infighting within the party was considered one of the key reasons for BJP’s rise in the district. “The downfall of BJP has started in Cooch Behar. It is also a mandate against Nisith Pramanik who had made tall talks earlier,” said Guha, the Trinamul candidate.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-116
