04-11-2021||West Bengal||Bengal minister Subrata Mukherjee dies at 75||Senior Trinamool Congress (TMC) leader and cabinet minister in charge of four departments Subrata Mukherjee died of a severe heart attack on Thursday night at the state-run SSKM Hospital in Kolkata. He was admitted to the hospital on October 25 after he complained of breathing problem. Mukherjee, 75, who was undergoing treatment at the Woodburn Ward, was rushed to the intensive critical care unit of the cardiology department on Thursday evening but the doctors could not save him. He was declared dead around 9.22 pm, Bengal minister Aroop Biswas, who rushed to the hospital, later told reporters. “I am heart broken. His contribution was immense. I cannot imagine he is no more,” said chief minister Mamata Banerjee. The chief minister, who was performing Kali puja at her residence in south Kolkata’s Kalighat area, rushed to the hospital on hearing the news. Subrata Mukherjee also served as mayor of Kolkata from 2000 to 2005 when the Left Front was in power. He was counted among one of the best mayors the city has had because of his administrative skills. In Mamata Banerjee-led cabinet, Subrata Mukherjee was in charge of panchayat and rural development department, consumer affairs department, public enterprises and industrial reconstruction and self-help group and self-employment department.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-113
04-11-2021||West Bengal||Bengal BJP asks Mamata govt to slash state tax on fuel||Mounting pressure on the Mamata Banerjee government, the Bengal BJP on Thursday demanded a reduction on the VAT of the state tax on petrol and diesel. The state outfit asked the Bengal govt to take a cue from the Centre if it was serious about being pro-people. The TMC, however, termed the Centre's decision to slash excise duty on petrol and diesel by Rs 5 and Rs 10 per litre respectively a "mere eyewash". Describing the Centre's move as a "Diwali gift to the nation", Leader of Opposition in West Bengal Assembly Suvendu Adhikari, took to Twitter, and said, "Now the WB Govt should follow suit and slash state tax to further bring down the rates." BJP national vice-president Dilip Ghosh tweeted that the TMC government, "which claims to be pro-people", has its task cut out to reduce VAT imposed by it on petroleum products. The party's state president, Sukanta Majumdar, also made a similar demand. Claiming that the slash in excise duty is "nothing but an eyewash", TMC state general secretary and spokesperson Kunal Ghosh, nonetheless, pointed out that the meagre reduction was announced after the rates hit the roof. "They should bring down the main price component," he tweeted. The TMC leader contended that the Centre levies higher tax on petroleum products than the state and as such the reduction in excise duty wouldn't have much bearing on the Union government's exchequer. He further alleged that the Centre gives BJP-ruled states more funds when compared to those which have opposition parties at the helm. "The BJP-ruled state governments get their dues from the Centre on account of the taxes it levies, but Bengal remains deprived," Ghosh said, iterating TMC's allegation that the Union government metes out a "step-motherly treatment" to the Mamata Banerjee government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-113
04-11-2021||West Bengal||Two held with Pangolin scales worth Rs 5 lakh||Foresters of Baikunthapur forest division arrested two suspected smugglers and recovered pangolin scales, estimated at Rs 5 lakh, from them at Matigara near the Balason river bridge here on Tuesday. Sanjay Dutta, the range officer of Sarugara Range of Baikunthapur, said they got a tip off that four persons were planning to smuggle pangolin scales from Assam to Nepal through Siliguri. “We spotted the quartet on two motorbikes. As we approached them, two of them escaped but we managed to nab the other two and recovered five kilos of pangolin scales packed in a bag from them,” said Dutta. The arrested duo Soumen Saha and Partha Das, both residents of Mohitnagar in Jalpaiguri district have been booked under the Wildlife (Protection) Act. On Wednesday, the duo were produced at a local court and sent to judicial custody for 14 days, sources said. Senior forest officials said that pangolin is listed as a critically endangered species under International Union for Conservation of Nature’s (IUCN) red data book and is also a schedule-I animal under the Wildlife (Protection) Act. The animal’s meat is largely consumed in China and Vietnam and its scales are used in traditional medicines. A kilo of scale costs around Rs 1 lakh, the sources said. In another incident, New Jalpaiguri police seized around 210 kilos of cannabis estimated at Rs 30 lakh from Fulbari on Tuesday. Dilip Barman and Kanak Barman, both residents of Sahebganj, Cooch Behar, have been arrested. Also, Bagdogra police busted an illegal gambling den and arrested 12 persons with around Rs 2.30 lakh on Wednesday. In Malda, police have seized crackers worth Rs 8.75 lakh in the past 24 hours. Four persons have been arrested so far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-113
04-11-2021||West Bengal||Bridge pain dims Diwali for potters in Siliguri ||The halt in traffic movement along the Balason river bridge located on the northwest end of Siliguri has left hundreds of potters in the area in distress ahead of Diwali. Every year, hundreds of people turn up at Palpara — a locality on the right bank of Balason (towards Bagdogra) —to buy earthen lamps and other decorative items from the potters before the festival. “Before Diwali, each of us makes a decent earning of Rs 10,000 to Rs 15,000 a day by selling diyas. But with the suspension of vehicular movement along the route , we can hardly find any customer,” said Moloy Choudhury, a senior potter on the area. According to him, 50-odd potteries run in Palpara and close to 300 people are dependent on the trade. On October 20, as a pillar of the 50-year-old Balason river bridge tilted and a portion of the concrete plank of the bridge subsided, traffic movement was stopped along the bridge on NH-31, the principal highway that connects Siliguri and the Northeast with the rest of the country. Since then, only two-wheelers and pedestrians were allowed to use the bridge. A few days back, as work to install a bailey bridge commenced at the site, even two-wheelers were barred. “There is hardly anybody who will come here from Siliguri through a turnaround route or by walking along the bridge. We largely bank on the Diwali sale but there is little hope that we will make good money this season,” Madhai Pal, another potter, said. He also mentioned that along with residents of Siliguri and adjoining areas, they get hundreds of “flying” customers who buy earthen items from them while moving along the route to Cooch Behar, the Northeast and other parts of south Bengal. “Throughout the year, we get such customers who buy different items from us. But it seems that unless the bridge is repaired and traffic movement resumes in a full-fledged manner, there is little chance that we can make some money,” the potter added. Sources in the state PWD (NH-IX division) said they had initiated work to install the bailey bridge. “Components of the bridge will reach shortly at the site. We expect it will be ready by the first week of December,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-114
04-11-2021||West Bengal||Crisis over for two Duncans tea estates||A new company took charge of two tea estates owned by the Duncans Goenka Group on Wednesday, much to the relief of around 4,700 workers of these gardens. For the past five-six years, Kilkott and Nagaisuree — the tea estates located in Matialli block of Jalpaiguri in western Dooars — were running in an erratic manner. In March 2020, activities in both the gardens came to a standstill. “An agreement was signed on Tuesday based on which, the new company — Sanmelan Tea & Beverages Private Limited — took charge of these gardens today (Wednesday). There hasn’t been any transfer of ownership but, based on the agreement, they will run the gardens now,” said a source. As representatives of the new company, along with tea trade union leaders, reached the gardens on Wednesday, workers and their families welcomed them by playing traditional instruments. A few months after operations at the two gardens came to a halt in March last year, a company came forward and started running them. “Things were fine during the first few months until we found that the company is paying the wages but not making deposits in the provident fund accounts of the workers. Ahead of the Durga Puja this year, there were disagreements over the bonus rate and eventually, the company paid a 13 per cent bonus. A couple of weeks back, representatives of the company expressed inability to run the gardens any further,” said Prakash Naik, the Matialli block general secretary of Cha Bagan Trinamul Congress Mazdoor Union. There are around 2,000 workers in Kilkott and another 2,700 in Nagaisuree. Trinamul leaders and the state labour department started searching for a new company that can run the gardens. They found Sanmelan Tea & Beverages and a meeting was convened at the office of the additional labour commissioner (north) at Dagapur in Siliguri.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-114
04-11-2021||West Bengal||Alipurduar club sends message of amity||The Kali Puja organised by Torsha United Club at a village here is in no match to the glamour and grandeur of the pujas hosted in the towns across north Bengal. The Kali Puja hosted at Shilbarihat, a tiny hamlet nestled in the bank of Torsha river in Alipurduar-I block, is a glaring example of amity among the Hindus and the Muslims of the area who join hands together to organise it every year and also get in celebrations. “Hindus are a minority in the village and it is because of the help from local Muslim families that the puja is being organised for the past 31 years. It is a matter of pride for each of us here and we believe it is the amity that draws hundreds of visitors to our village every year, even from towns and cities,” said Gopal Adhikary, joint treasurer of the club. Mahabul Alam, who shares his responsibility in the club, said no differentiation is made among the villagers in terms of their religion. “We turn up to each household, asking for a subscription. Also, in our club, Muslim and Hindu members are equally delegated with responsibilities. There has been no problem among us so far and we believe this practice should continue to disseminate the message of unity and amity at a time when we often hear about differences cropping up within people in the name of religion,” said Alam. “Whether it is readying the pandal, bringing the idol or distributing prasad, both communities work together,” he added. Members of the local business community, who also join the puja, said Shilbarihat also draws crowds from nearby areas because a fair held at the village during the puja days. However, since last year, the fair has been suspended due to the Covid 19 pandemic and the related restrictions. “We have organised a cultural programme for children on Friday evening. Children from all communities will join together to stage certain performances for our entertainment,” said Nikhil Poddar, president Shilbarihat Byabsayee Samiti.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-114
04-11-2021||West Bengal||Burdwan Development Authority launches open-air exhibition on Satyajit Ray||The Burdwan Development Authority (BDA) on Tuesday kicked off a six-month long open-air exhibition on legendary filmmaker Satyajit Ray to celebrate his birth centenary this year. Sandip Ray (centre in picture above), son of Satyajit Ray, along with his wife Lalita, inaugurated the exhibition in the presence of several senior BDA officials in Burdwan town on Tuesday evening. The versatile Ray was born in 1921 in Calcutta and had played a significant role in Indian films, scriptwriting, writing and painting in his lifetime. The BDA has displayed 16 posters of films by Satyajit Ray and 12 portraits of the filmmaker on the electric posts near the town’s Curzon gate. The BDA Officials said the exhibition would continue till May 2 next year. BDA executive officer Santanu Basu said: “It was our way of paying tribute to the master of Indian cinema Satyajit Ray on his birth centenary.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-114
04-11-2021||West Bengal||Mobile food testing lab rolls out in Durgapur||The state health department has rolled out an initiative in Durgapur to ensure on-spot examination of food served by restaurants and haul up those operating without licence and violating Covid protocols. Sources said the move comes after chief minister Mamata Banerjee instructed all districts and civic bodies to intensify vigilance on the quality of food in restaurants. Announcing the project —Food Safety on Wheels —earlier this week in Durgapur, a state health department official said the government had allotted to West Burdwan district a special vehicle that would have an inbuilt food testing laboratory. Officials said the vehicle would reach Durgapur in a fortnight, while other districts would get them in a phased manner. “"Earlier, we had to send food samples to Calcutta for quality tests but now with the special vehicle we will be able to carry out on-spot examination of food samples. This will help us take faster action against the eateries found guilty. It will also create awareness among restaurant owners,” said Abhijit Shevale, additional district magistrate. West Burdwan officials said they had been getting a number of complaints regarding stale food and violation of Covid protocols by restaurants and food stalls. Food safety commissioner Tapan Kanti Rudra recently held a review meeting with district officials in Asansol on Thursday. Sources said he had asked them to focus more on food stalls serving food through food delivery apps. The Telegraph visited some food stalls in Durgapur town and found many irregularities. A food joint near City Centre with a valid licence was found operating out of a shanty. The visit to the eatery, which is popular on online food delivery apps, showed that food had been kept in the open and the chef was not wearing a mask or gloves that had been made mandatory in view of the pandemic. Water used for cooking was also kept in an open drum. Another stall near Durgapur’s Steel Park is on a drain. Vishnu Khaitan, a factory owner in Durgapur who frequently orders food through online apps, was surprised when he saw one of his favourite restaurants was located on a drain. “Food delivery platforms should run a check before enlisting such restaurants,” said Khaitan. An official of a food delivery platform popular in Durgapur said the only criterion to enlist any restaurant in its app was food licence. “We do not monitor whether restaurants are maintaining proper hygiene or how they procure licences. That job lies with the government’s food safety department,” he said. A food safety official said to get a food licence one had to furnish a trade permit, examination report of the water used by the restaurant, and income tax return certificate. Covid vaccine certificates of owners and staff are also required. On how eateries with poor hygiene levels had been given licences, the official said: “Our officers visit restaurants and examine food safety measures before issuing them a license. We will definitely carry out a check.” Foodies in Durgapur hoped that the introduction of the vehicle fitted with a food sample testing lab would help improve the quality of food and the way it was being prepared.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-114
04-11-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee irons out Darjeeling Hills University irritants||The state government has decided to run Darjeeling Hills University (DHU) from the Mungpoo ITI College building, with the vice-chancellor of North Bengal University being given additional charge to oversee the functioning of the new institution. The solution to the DHU issue, which has dragged on since 2018, has been worked out within a week of chief minister Mamata Banerjee holding an administrative meeting in Kurseong. Anit Thapa, president of Bharatiya Gorkha Prajatantrik Morcha, and Amar Singh Rai, former Darjeeling MLA, had specifically raised the DHU issue in the meeting. “The state government has approved the functioning of the hill university from ITI Mungpoo and vice-chancellor of NBU will remain in additional charge,” an administrative source told The Telegraph. The Bengal Assembly had passed a bill on July 31, 2018 to set up a university at Jogighat in Mungpoo, about 30km from here. However, the process has not been smooth since then. Initially, the state government had named the university as Greenfield University, but many in the hills were against the generic name and wanted a more specific one that was in harmony with the emotions of the hill people. The Bengal Assembly changed the name to Darjeeling Hills University. In 2020, the state government forwarded three names to Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankar for appointment of a VC to DHU. The names in order of preference were: “1. Dr. Dilip Kumar Sarkar, Registrar, North Bengal University: 2: Dr Pujan Sarkar, Principal, Polytechnic Inst, Jalpaiguri; 3. Dr Rajendra Prasad Dhakal, Principal, Kalimpong Collee,” as tweeted by a state minister.  It was expected that the governor would give his formal nod to the name listed as No. 1. However, the governor decided to defy the “order of preference” of a search committee appointed by the state government and preferred Dhakal as the VC. The governor’s decision stalled the entire process once again. During the review meeting in Kurseong on October 26, Thapa had raised the issue of lack of development of the varsity. Rai had pinpointed problems related to the appointment of the VC. One of the first processes to set up a varsity is the appointment of a vice-chancellor. During the meeting, Mamata had said the varsity should start functioning from a temporary structure until new infrastructure was set up. The chief minister, however, was silent on the VC  issue at the administrative meeting. “The new development is very important for hill education,” said an academic from Darjeeling. The demand for a university in the hills was first raised in 1955 with Darjeeling municipality adopting a resolution and placing it before the state government. The North Bengal University was set up in 1962. Even though it came up in Darjeeling district, it was located near Siliguri. However, the demand for a university in Darjeeling has always been there because the hills have an academic calendar different from the plains.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-114
04-11-2021||West Bengal||Pure-water hope for arsenic-rich villages||Research scholars, including four teachers from a college at Jiaganj in Murshidabad, have come up with a process to purify groundwater in various arsenic-rich blocks and villages of the district by identifying two bacteria species from the soil of Bhagobangola and applying them to treat the contaminated water. The researchers — Abhishek Basu and Debjani Mandal teach molecular biology while Indranil Saha and Shamsuzzaman Ahmed are teachers in the chemistry department of Sripat Singh College at Jiaganj — have isolated and characterised the bacteria as Bacillus safensis and Lysinibacillus sp, which, they claim, can eat arsenic and lessen its toxicity. Another member of the research team, Ritesh Sonar, has completed post-graduation in genetics from Calcutta University. Their research — Isolation and identification of arsenic resistant bacteria: a tool for bioremedication of arsenic toxicity — got an endorsement following its publication in the September issue of the International Journal of Environmental Science and Technology (IEST) of the Springer Nature publishing group. Purified drinking water is a far cry for residents of Hariharpara, Lagola, Domkal, Jalangi and other blocks of the district. Similar is the plight of villagers of Asanpara, Chunakhali, Kumirdaha and Bhandara. Arsenic toxicity and poverty go hand in hand in these pockets where contaminated groundwater has been the predominant source of drinking water for years. “The water that comes out from the village tube wells is rich in arsenic content. We’re left with two choices — either drink it or fetch water from far away,” said Rofikul Islam of Bhagobangola block. Though 30-year-old Islam has managed to stay free of any arsenic-induced illness, other young villagers have not shared his luck. “Consumption of arsenic-contaminated water leads to severe health hazards in children as young as 16 years. Farming with arsenic-contaminated water leads to biomagnification of arsenic in food crops, especially rice. The symptoms among the villagers range from skin lesions and physiological disorders to cancer and death in extreme cases,” said Mandal, a research team member. At present, the researchers are exploiting the bacteria’s potential to remove arsenic from groundwater. The project started in 2019 when Basu, Mandal and Saha received two grants from the state government to carry out the research, which spanned over two years. The scholars claimed that the two bacteria isolated by them from the soil of Bhagobangola showed unprecedented resistance to arsenic and copper.It is also claimed that such ability to survive at extremely high concentrations of these heavy metals has not yet been reported anywhere. These bacteria are also hyper tolerant to other heavy metals such as cobalt and chromium, according to the researchers. “Mixed with a composite material, these bacteria could remove around 90 per cent of arsenic from drinking water and restore the arsenic concentration well below the permissible standards set by WHO and Bureau of Indian Standards,” said Basu, one of the researchers. This research has helped create awareness about the ill-effects of arsenic toxicity among villagers of the Murshidabad block known for its toxic quality of groundwater. “The villagers can abstain from using arsenic contaminated tube wells, irrigation wells and agricultural soil when the arsenic mapping is done,” said Ahmed, a research team member, who is also the principal of Sripat Singh College. The research has led to the development of an arsenic-removal filter, which is eco-friendly, cost-effective and ideal for rural residents. “Its biggest outcome would be the development of an arsenic bio-filter, which could provide arsenic free water at community level at minimal cost,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-114
04-11-2021||West Bengal||Suspension of twin trains sparks protests in Alipurduar||An announcement by the Northeast Frontier Railway (NFR) to suspend two long-distance trains from December to February because of “foggy weather” has led to protests in Alipurduar and adjoining districts. The notice issued by NFR general manager (operations) states that the Teesta Torsa Express, which runs between New Alipurduar and Sealdah, and the Kamakhya-Delhi Express will remain cancelled from December 1 to February 28, 2022. This has upset local traders of Alipurduar who said large consignments of fish and flowers reached Alipurduar and Cooch Behar through Teesta Torsa Express every day from south Bengal. “Every day, fish worth Rs 5 lakh and flowers worth Rs 2 lakh reach Alipurduar only. The authorities should rethink their decision,” Hirak Ghosh, a florist in Alipurduar town, said. Those in the tourism sector are disappointed too. “Tourists visiting eastern Dooars take this train to reach Alipurduar. If they cancel their trips, it will be a big setback,” said Biswajit Saha, secretary, Jaldapara Lodge Owners’ Association.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-114
04-11-2021||West Bengal||Bengal logs 919 new Covid-19 cases||Bengal on Wednesday reported 919 new Covid-19 infections, 879 recoveries and 14 deaths, resulting in a rise again, after three days, in active cases by 26 to 8,152. In the past 39 days, since Bengal snapped out of a 97-day streak of fall in active cases, the net rise in total active cases has been 478 from 7,674 on September 25. A minister said new infections reported on Wednesday were indicative of people infected between October 25 and October 29. Calcutta, North and South 24-Parganas, Howrah, Hooghly and Nadia accounted for 663 or 72.14 per of new infections detected on Wednesday. Calcutta lodged 245 new cases and North 24-Parganas 147. Sixteen Bengal districts reported zero deaths while Calcutta and North 24-Parganas four each.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-114
04-11-2021||West Bengal||Bengal BJP braces for more defections||Back-to-back losses against the Trinamul Congress in the bypolls held on September 30 and October 30 have triggered murmurs in the Bengal unit of the BJP that at least 10 to 15 leaders, including some MLAs and MPs, are about to defect to the ruling party in the coming weeks. If the exodus takes place — a senior state BJP leader said that the Bengal unit was sure about such an exit — the saffron camp will find it difficult to tide itself over the crisis that got accentuated by the poor show in the seven bypolls held in a span of one month. “Our leaders may put up a brave face saying a few defections won’t matter, but the truth is, the party’s entire Mission Bengal was based on leaders who joined us ahead of the polls. More defections will surely hurt the workers at the grassroots, which is the worst thing to happen to a cadre-based party like ours,” said a state BJP leader. The trend of defection started with former Trinamul No. 2 Mukul Roy, who won the Krishnanagar North Assembly seat on a BJP ticket, and continued till earlier this week with the exit of former state minister Rajib Banerjee. A total of 6 BJP lawmakers — 5 MLAs and the former MP and Union minister Babul Supriyo — have already defected to the Trinamul. “After the 7-0 drubbing in a span of one month, it appears that more people are set to quit our party. The discussion in the party is primarily revolving around who next and when,” a state BJP functionary said. Several BJP insiders said the biggest problem with the party in Bengal was the unwillingness of the state and central leadership to engage in any sole-searching on why the target of 200-plus seats could not be achieved. “Had there been some soul searching, we could have zeroed in on the mistakes, which would have helped us draw up plans for the future. Here, no one is talking about any plan as the central leaders are now busy with the UP elections,” said a state leader. Over the last few months, the state leaders have spoken only about the post-poll violence allegedly unleashed by the Trinamul while most of the central leaders, who had been flown in to lead the poll campaigns, vanished from the scene leaving the party at the hands of Dilip Ghosh (national vice-president), Amitava Chakraborty (state general secretary organisation) and Suvendu Adhikari (Nandigram MLA and leader of Opposition). The state leaders have hardly been on the same page on how to handle the situation after the post-poll debacle. While Ghosh had been busy criticising central leaders and the inductees from the Trinamul , Adhikari has spoken primarily about the alleged Trinamul terror. “There is a unique situation in the party now. The turncoats are not happy and looking for opportunities to join the Trinamul while the old-timers are upset that these people had been brought in. It’s a strange situation where everyone is blaming everyone and there is no mutual trust among the leaders,” a BJP leader said. Over the last few months, the Bengal unit of the BJP was engrossed in discussing how Ghosh was going after Roy or the war of words between Ghosh and Tathagata Roy (former state president), or the cold war between Sayantan Basu (state general secretary) and Adhikari “It’s not only about camps, but also camps within camps. There is no attempt to make the new inductees comfortable in the party as the state leaders themselves are so insecure about their political future. There is no incentive to be in the BJP in Bengal,” said a leader, who recently went back to Trinamul. According to him, the only “positive thing” that most of the Trinamul turncoats had received by joining BJP, was a security cover from central forces. However, recently the security covers of 30 such leaders have been withdrawn. “What is there for these leaders to stay in the party? No power, no position, not even central security anymore. It is only natural that they’ll quit,” a source said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-114
04-11-2021||West Bengal||Tiger mauls crab hunter to death in Sunderbans||A 52-year-old crab hunter was killed by a Royal Bengal tiger in the Bulufeli area of the Sunderbans in South 24-Parganas when he was sleeping on a boat along with two fishermen on Tuesday afternoon. Police and forest officials said the tiger swam around 100 meters in pursuit of the small fishing vessel, leaped over it, and attacked Srinibas Mondal, a resident of Kishorimohanpur in Maipith coastal area under Kultali block. The maneater killed Mondal on the spot and tried to drag him towards the jungle. His fellow fishermen thwarted the tiger’s attempt by beating it with a bamboo stick and returned with the body to Kishorimohanpur ghat. Police took the body and sent it for autopsy. “They went deep inside the creeks, which are the turfs of tigers. The big cat attacked the team when they were sleeping on the vessel after having lunch, anchoring it on an unprotected stretch near the bank of a canal,” a forest department official said. The incident brings the toll from tiger attacks in the Sunderbans to 29 in the past 17 months, an official of the state wildlife department said. Foresters blamed fishermen for “inviting danger” by entering the deep jungle despite strong prohibition. “There is a strong prohibition on jungle entry. We have been trying hard to create awareness among the fishermen and crab hunters urging them not to risk their lives and have also proposed alternative sources of income like apiculture. But they never listen,” a senior official of the state wildlife department said. The forest department has decided to undertake a renewed attempt to discuss and explore alternative sources of income by organising a meeting on Friday with local MLAs, gram panchayat authorities and district administrative officials.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-115
04-11-2021||West Bengal||Bangladesh suspect lands in NIA net||The National Investigation Agency arrested a suspected member of banned terror outfit Jamaat-ul-Mujahideen Bangladesh (JMB) from Sardarpara in Subhasgram, South 24-Parganas, on Tuesday. Mohammad Abdul Mannan Bachu was arrested for his alleged role in online recruitment and radicalisation of youths for the terror outfit, senior officials of the NIA said. A resident of Bangila Chadshi in Barisal, Bachu has been staying in Subhasgram posing as a businessman, NIA officers said. A passport, voter ID card and several other documents, all of which are fake, have been recovered from him, the officers said. “One of his responsibilities was to create fake documents and ID cards for those who were sneaking into Bengal from across the Bangladesh border,” said a NIA official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-115
