05-11-2021||West Bengal||In her third term as CM, age and health catch up with Mamata's ministers||Mamata Banerjee’s third term, which completed six months on Friday, started on the wrong foot with her own defeat at Nandigram. Six months later, the chief minister lost her former mentor and key member of her inner circle Subrata Mukherjee after his demise on Thursday night. A second minister, Sadhan Pande, has been ailing (the just deceased Mukherjee was handling Pande’s department too for the last few months) for some time now. A third minister, Amit Mitra, is bowing out of the cabinet on health grounds, opting for an advisory role. Of the remaining 21 cabinet rank ministers, 12 are in their 60s and five in their 70s. Mukherjee was 75 when he passed away. Sobhandeb Chattopadhyay, who won from the Khardaha Assembly seat in the October 30 bypoll, is currently the oldest at 76. Among the 10 junior ministers with independent charge, Ratna De Nag is the oldest at 73, while three others are in their 60s. The remaining ministers are in their 50s. Before his death, Mukherjee was among the Trinamul quartet arrested by the CBI in connection with the Narada bribery sting operation which had embroiled the ruling Trinamul in a major controversy in the run up to the 2016 Assembly polls. Five years later, the CBI acted on the case within days of the Assembly poll results being declared. Apart from the deceased Mukherjee, his cabinet colleague Firhad Hakim, Trinamul lawmaker from Kamarhati Madan Mitra and former Calcutta mayor Sovan Chatterjee were also arrested. “There had been trouble (in the Banerjee household involving Mamata and her heir apparent and nephew Abhishek) over giving tickets to the tainted ministers. Abhishek was in favour of including fresh faces with a clean record, but Mamata did not want to dump the old guard, especially those like the late Subrata da, who were privy to many an upheaval within the party,” said a Trinamul source. Abhishek’s taking the moral high ground on matters of public probity did take a beating after his wife and he faced summons from the Enforcement Directorate over an alleged coal mining scam. Since his interrogation by the central agency’s officers, the Diamond Harbour MP and the party’s all India general secretary, has stepped up the ante against the Congress. Many see Trinamul’s sudden belligerence against the grand old party as a ploy to split the non-BJP votes in poll bound small states like Goa and Tripura. In Bengal’s politics, corruption has proved to be a non-issue as both the ruling Trinamul and main Opposition BJP have encouraged poaching of each other’s elected representatives. After the BJP’s drubbing in the state Assembly polls, most of the key defectors, like former minister Rajib Banerjee and former Bidhannagar mayor Sabyasachi Dutta, have returned to the Trinamul fold. Both are relatively young but for them to immediately gain the trust of Mamata or Abhishek could be a tall task. “Unlike a Sobhandeb Chattopadhyay or a Jyotipriya Mullick, who has stayed with the party in every situation, leaders like Rajib and Sabyasachi did not think twice before switching camps. Didi had made Sabyasachi the first mayor of a prestigious township like Salt Lake,” said a Trinamul source. In the districts, too, the party has seen a steady influx of leaders who owe their allegiance to Abhishek and would like to be rewarded with plum posts either in the organisation or the government. Also waiting in the wings are Trinamul newbies like the former two-time Asansol MP Babul Supriyo. After stepping down as MP, Supriyo, who has also been a junior minister at the Centre, would expect a plum post. With the death of Mukherjee, the departments of panchayat and rural development, public enterprises and industrial reconstruction and those held by Pande, consumer affairs, self-help group and self-employment, are rudderless. In Amit Mitra’s absence, Mamata is most likely to retain the finance department with a junior minister to handle day-to-day affairs of the most crucial portfolio after Home (Political).  Cabinet ministers in their 70s Sobhandeb Chattopadhyay (76) Amit Mitra (73) Sadhan Pande (70) Bankim Hazra (71) Siddiqullah Chowdhury (72)  Cabinet ministers in their 60s Manas Ranjan Bhunia (69) Partha Chatterjee (69) Jyotipriya Mullick (63) Arup Roy (65) Firhad Hakim (62) Javed Ahmed Khan (65) Swapan Debnath (69) Moloy Ghatak (65) Ujjal Biswas (67) Biplab Mitra (69) Rathin Ghosh (62) Soumen Mahapatra (62)  MoS Independent charge Ratna De Nag (73) Subrata Saha (67) Akhil Giri (62) Chandrima Bhattacharya (65)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-112
05-11-2021||West Bengal||Political leaders, admirers pour in to pay last respects to Subrata Mukherjee||Several political personalities gathered at Rabindra Sadan in Calcutta on Friday to pay their last respects to former West Bengal Panchayat Minister Subrata Mukherjee, who died after suffering a massive cardiac arrest at a state-run hospital. Senior Trinamool Congress leaders Firhad Hakim and Arup Biswas, the Congress' Abdul Mannan and Pradip Bhattacharya, as well as Dilip Ghosh and Rahul Sinha of the BJP, paid tributes to the former Kolkata mayor. CPI(M) state secretary Surya Kanta Mishra and party spokesperson Sujan Chakraborty also paid their last respects to Mukherjee, who passed away at SSKM Hospital around 9.22 pm on Thursday evening. "I have grown up seeing Subratada. He was my childhood hero. There were numerous instances when I approached him for advice and he always guided me. I have lost my big brother," Hakim told news agency PTI. Dilip Ghosh, vice-president of the BJP, said, "His contribution to Bengal politics will never be forgotten. He was the 'Bhishma Pitamah' of Bengal politics. This is a big loss for all of us." Apart from politicians, thousands of admirers and supporters of the veteran politician assembled at Rabindra Sadan, too, to pay homage to their beloved leader. In another moving tribute, actor-politician Moonmoo Sen, a long-time friend of the former mayor, was seen caressing Mukherjee's forehead, as she bid goodbye to her co-worker. Sen co-starred in Mukherjee's debut TV serial Chowdhury Pharmaceuticals. In his condolence message, industrialist Sanjiv Goenka said, "In Subrata Mukherjee, we have lost a very good and a very capable leader. At a personal level, I had known him for over 35 years. It's a very deep personal loss." Mukherjee, 75, who was hospitalised on October 24 following breathing problems, underwent angioplasty and two stents were inserted inside his blocked arteries on November 1. "Subratada's body will first be taken to the state assembly and then to his residence in Ballygunge, followed by a visit to his club and finally to Keoratola crematorium for the last rites," a TMC leader said. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday said Mukherjee's demise was a personal loss for her. "I have faced many disasters in my life but this is a very big blow. I do not think there will be another man like Subratada who was such a nice and hard-working person. The party and his constituency (Ballygunge) were his soul. I will not be able to see Subratada's body," she had told reporters at the hospital on Thursday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-112
05-11-2021||West Bengal||5,000kg haul in Siliguri||A team led by senior police officers of Siliguri Metropolitan Police raided a number of markets across the city and seized 5,000kg of banned firecrackers on Wednesday. Twenty-five people were arrested during the raids. “There were reports that some people were selling prohibited firecrackers. Also, some were selling crackers without a valid licence. In all, 5,000kg of firecrackers have been seized and 25 people arrested. Such drives will continue,” said a senior police officer. “Residents should buy only green firecrackers and burst them only between 8pm and 10pm. Our teams are vigilant. We want citizens to call us at 100 for police aid or report illegal activities.” Senior officers of Siliguri Metropolitan Police said they had stepped up patrolling. An officer said an all-women two-wheeler squad, raised by the police in Siliguri, would be on vigil, especially in localities where Kali Puja pandals traditionally drew huge crowds.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-112
05-11-2021||West Bengal||Drive against cannabis||The state excise department in Cooch Behar has launched a drive against illegal cannabis cultivators. Under the drive, being conducted in association with the district land and land reforms department, the owner of a plot on which such illegal cultivation has been carried out will be traced and prosecuted. Cannabis are extensively cultivated in different areas of Cooch Behar-I and II blocks and in some localities of Dinhata and Mekhliganj sub-divisions. “In the past few years, the crop pattern has changed in many areas of the district. A section of farmers who used to cultivate paddy, jute or vegetables are cultivating cannabis now. This is because a single plant of cannabis fetches Rs 2,000 to Rs 5,000, which is much more than other crops. The increase in earnings has drawn a section of farmers to this crop,” said a source in the district agricultural department. Every year, the saplings are planted during the monsoon and the plants are harvested ahead of the winter and sold, mostly to members of narcotic smuggling rackets, sources said. Police and the state excise department conducts drives every year to curb the illegal practice. Tonnes of plants are chopped off before harvest and set on fire. “However, during most of these drives, no arrests can be made as no one comes up as a claimant. That is why we have planned to take the help of the district land and land reforms department to track the owner of the plot,” said Sumit Kumar, the district police chief.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-112
05-11-2021||West Bengal||Dropout survey in Jalpaiguri||The district administration of Jalpaiguri has decided to conduct a comprehensive survey to find out the number of school dropouts in the district and draw up a plan to bring back those students after resolving their problems. Administrative sources said the survey would start soon after schools reopened in the state on November 16 and continue till December. “Students are away from schools for almost 20 months now and there is an apprehension that a section of them has stopped their studies and have dropped out because of various reasons. That is why the survey has been planned,” said Moumita Godara Basu, the district magistrate of Jalpaiguri. “Once the schools reopen, we will check out how many students from Classes IX to XII are not attending classes. We will reach out to them to find out what is stopping them from continuing their education and will take all efforts to bring them back to schools.” Sources said as primary and upper primary classes (I to VIII) were yet to resume, it has been decided to engage child protection units that function in villages and municipal wards of towns, along with ASHA workers and others to conduct the door-to-door survey. “Though students studying in secondary and higher secondary classes are more susceptible to this dropout trend to earn for their families, those in the lower classes are also vulnerable,” said Dinabandhu Saha, the district social welfare officer of Jalpaiguri. He said once the survey was completed by December, they would collate the data and prepare a vulnerability map of the district, identifying areas where the concentration of dropouts was more. In Jalpaiguri, there are reports that many students from sick tea estates have stopped studying during the pandemic and are earning for their families. “It is a challenge for us to bring them back to schools,” said an official. After the survey and the mapping, the administration will pick up each dropout case and approach him or her. “The idea is to try and resolve the problem, which they are facing so that they resume their studies,” said Saha. In Jalpaiguri, the administration has found 114 such children below eight years of age who have lost either or both of their parents during the pandemic. “These children are staying with their relatives. We are regularly monitoring them and once schools open for primary and upper primary classes, we will ensure that all of them attend their classes and continue their education,” said Sudip Bhadra, an official of the district child protection unit.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-112
05-11-2021||West Bengal||Ailing Bengal minister Subrata Mukherjee dies at 75||Subrata Mukherjee, political mentor to Mamata Banerjee and former mayor of Calcutta, died on Thursday night. He was 75. Mukherjee, who handled panchayat and a few other portfolios in the third Mamata ministry, had been undergoing treatment at SSKM hospital. “I have weathered many a storm in life but this one I simply cannot handle… this is one of the greatest losses of my life,” chief minister Mamata Banerjee said at SSKM shortly after Mukherjee’s death. Minister Firhad Hakim later said: “She (Mamata) broke down… she was inconsolable. She told me that ‘on the night of the festival of lights, I never thought such darkness would descend on us’.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-113
05-11-2021||West Bengal||Coronavirus outbreak: Active Covid cases rise by 41||Bengal on Thursday reported 918 new Covid-19 cases, 863 recoveries and 14 deaths, causing a rise by 41 in its total of active cases to 8,193. In the past 40 days since Bengal snapped out of a 97-day fall in active cases, there has been a net rise of 519 in active cases, from 7,674. A minister said new infections reported on Thursday indicated people infected from October 26 to 30. Calcutta reported 228 new infections and North 24-Parganas 156, the only two districts with a three-digit figure of new cases detected in a day. Five districts reported single-digit figures. Calcutta, North and South 24-Parganas, Howrah, Hooghly and Nadia accounted for 635 or 69.17 per cent of new infections detected on Thursday. Seventeen Bengal districts reported zero deaths. Calcutta and North 24-Parganas reported five deaths each. The daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 2.22 per cent on Thursday. The state’s recovery rate is 98.28 per cent, while that of the nation is 98.23 per cent. The state’s mortality rate is 1.2 per cent, while that of the nation is 1.34 per cent. Bengal now has over 15.96 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was logged in March last year. The total includes nearly 15.69 lakh recoveries and 19,188 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-113
05-11-2021||West Bengal||Mentor’s death brings darkness||The death of Subrata Mukherjee has robbed Bengal of one of its most colourful characters and marks the departure of the last of a triumvirate that came to be known as the Three Musketeers of the Congress in the turbulent 1960s and 1970s. The other two were Mukherjee’s political mentor Priya Ranjan Das Munshi and Somen Mitra. Mukherjee himself would go on to mentor Mamata Banerjee who now strides the Bengal political landscape unrivalled. “On the night of the festival of lights, I never thought such darkness would descend on us…. I won’t be able to look at his mortal remains. That’s why I won’t be part of his final journey on Friday,” Mamata said on Thursday after visiting SSKM hospital where Mukherjee breathed his last, aged 75. The passionate patron of Ekdalia Evergreen — overseeing and micro-managing the south Calcutta puja a few weeks ago — had gone to SSKM for a check-up on October 24. Doctors had then advised hospitalisation over certain respiratory issues. He had apparently been doing well since an angioplasty and insertion of stents, but his condition deteriorated on Thursday. “I don’t know what happened. The SSKM principal had come to the Kali Puja at my residence earlier this evening and he said Subratada was doing well and would be released tomorrow. Not long after, this happened,” Mamata said on Thursday night. “Such a remarkably jovial man, with such a great sense of humour… always looking to help, always smiling, always looking to be of service to the people. Such people are rarely found any more,” she added. As a youngster from Sarengabad in Budge Budge, Mukherjee had entered politics in the mid-1960s. The student of BSc in anthropology in Calcutta’s Bangabasi College met Das Munshi there. Mukherjee secured an MSc in archaeology and a postgraduate diploma in museology from Calcutta University. He also obtained a postgraduate certificate in cultural anthropology from the SOAS University of London. The political fortunes of Mukherjee, who was noticed by Indira Gandhi, rose when Siddhartha Shankar Ray inducted him into his ministry. He was 26. During his more than half a century of public life, Mukherjee was in the Congress for several decades before joining the Trinamul Congress. He then had a brief stint in the NCP and another in the Congress before spending the final phase of his life in Trinamul. Mukherjee was one of Ballygunge’s best-known residents and represented the constituency multiple times. Other than the post-Emergency election in 1977, Mukherjee never lost an Assembly election. He was widely regarded as one of the most proactive mayors of Calcutta since Independence. Mukherjee helmed the civic corporation between 2000 and 2005. A veteran trade union leader, Mukherjee was Bengal’s minister for panchayat and rural development, and of public enterprises and industrial reconstruction, at the time of his death.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-113
05-11-2021||West Bengal||BJP MP Raju Bista faces ire of business fraternity of Panitanki||Members of the business fraternity of Panitanki — one of the principal entry points to Nepal — have questioned the alleged inaction of Darjeeling BJP MP Raju Bista in improving the infrastructure at the border and facilitating the resumption of the movement of people. Since March last year, passenger movement at the India-Nepal border is suspended owing to the pandemic. From October 30, only people travelling in cars are allowed to cross the borders. They also need to be fully vaccinated or carry a negative RTPCR certificate issued not more than 48 hours prior to their travel. The suspension of passenger movement has spelt doom for the 1,200–odd traders based in Panitanki as they were entirely dependent on Nepalese customers. “The Centre has already given permission to open other similar transit routes along the India-Nepal border like Raxaul, Jogbani, Bhairava and Galgalia, but people cannot walk into India through Panitanki. It is disappointing that the MP did not take any initiative to help us,” said Ramkumar Chhetri, an adviser of Panitanki Byabsayee Samiti. He said most of the people coming from Nepal took three-wheelers such as autos, rickshaws and e-rickshaws to cross the Mechi river bridge and reach Panitanki. “There is still a restriction on the movement of three-wheelers. Therefore, the majority of common people cannot come here. It is high time that the MP takes up the issue with the authorities as the state government has no role to play here,” said another trader at Panitanki. They said Bista had turned up at Panitanki on Wednesday. He interacted with the locals and questioned the state’s alleged apathy in developing Panitanki and the adjoining areas of Siliguri sub-division. This has further angered the traders. They said infrastructure at the border such as the customs and immigration office was inadequate. “This is another area on which the MP should focus and try arranging funds so that a building with appropriate facilities is set up. Now that all those entering India will be screened for Covid, there will be a queue at the border. Such a facility is needed to facilitate smooth movement of people,” a trader said. After visiting Panitanki, Bista had confirmed that he would take up the issue with the Union external affairs ministry and the home ministry so that local transport (three-wheelers) could start plying across the border. “Border trade through Panitanki makes a handsome contribution to the state’s exchequer. Yet, the state has not taken any initiative to improve the facilities here and also to help the traders who faced huge losses due to the pandemic. I would see that appropriate initiatives are taken to develop the area as a hub of international trade,” said Bista.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-113
05-11-2021||West Bengal||BJP claims moral high ground on fuel tax||The BJP’s Bengal unit on Thursday said it would start a statewide protest after Saturday if the Bengal government doesn’t cut taxes it collects from petrol and diesel immediately, a day after the Centre reduced excise duties on petrol and diesel by Rs 5 and Rs 10 a litre. “Several BJP-ruled states and a few others have reduced the sales tax they collect on petrol and diesel after the Centre announced the reduction on excise duty. The Bengal government did nothing of that sort... If tax the state government collects isn’t reduced immediately, the BJP will start a statewide protest after Bhaiphonta (Saturday),” Samik Bhattacharya, state BJP’s chief spokesperson said. As of now 10 BJP-ruled states — Assam, Tripura, Manipur, Karnataka, Goa, Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand — have announced cuts on the prices of petrol and diesel. So have the Odisha and Bihar governments. Trinamul said an already beleaguered BJP was trying to stay politically relevant in Bengal after being whitewashed in two consecutive by-polls, by falsely holding the state government responsible for skyrocketing fuel prices. A party spokesperson claimed states ruled by the BJP could afford such cuts since the Centre would “adjust” any loss with some aid. “But that isn’t the case with Bengal. The Centre hasn’t even cleared our GST arrears,” alleged Trinamul state secretary Kunal Ghosh. “What the state government plans (to reduce fuel costs) will be announced by the secretariat. But our party feels this is BJP’s cheap politics... because they have been crushed in the bypolls,” he said. He added that the Union government should focus on reducing the base cost of the two fuels if it actually intends to help the nation. In Bengal, the government collects 25 per cent and 17 per cent sales taxes on petrol and diesel respectively. Sources in the government said nearly all of the revenue generated through sales tax comes from these two fuels, hence reduction of these taxes will have a considerable effect on the state’s exchequer. “As a matter of fact the state will already be losing revenue after cuts in excise duties. This is because the prices of petrol and diesel and the sales tax collected by the state are linked to each other. Thus whenever prices go down, there is a natural cut in taxes collected. Now if an ad hoc tax cut is announced it might affect us,” a source in the state finance department said. The prices of petrol and diesel in Calcutta on Thursday, after the cut on excise duties, were Rs 104.67 and Rs 89.79 respectively. Effectively, petrol prices were down by Rs 5.82, and diesel by Rs 11.77. The state government’s revenue has gone down by 82 paisa per litre of petrol and Rs 1.77 per litre of diesel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-113
05-11-2021||West Bengal||Bengal government identifies 30 new sand blocks across the state ||The Bengal government has identified 30 new sand blocks and decided to start their mining under the state’s new policy from December in an attempt to generate more revenue. Under the new sand policy, the state government will not auction sand mines but instead engage agencies to mine sand and dump it at designated stack yards, following which it would auction the sand. The new policy will help the state take complete control of the multi-crore sand trade. “The policy would be first implemented with the 30 new sand mines identified in districts like East Burdwan, Birbhum, Bankura and Alipurduar. It remains to be seen if the policy works well in these 30 new sand mines before all 900 other sand mines come under the control of the government,” said a senior official. According to sources, as of now the state government auctions the sand mines to private players who mine and sell sand. Under this system, the government only gets an auction amount and a royalty on sand mined. “The Bengal government (right now) gets around Rs 1,000 crore from auction and royalty of sand in a year… The figure could jump to Rs 3,500 crore when all sand mines come under direct control of the state government,” said an official. According to sources, all existing 900 sand mines have been auctioned a few years ago for a period of 5 years. So, the state has to wait till mid-2023 to get complete control them. Considering that the new sand policy would not be implemented on a majority of the sand mines as of now, Bengal chief secretary H. K. Dwivedi asked the district magistrate to find out new sand mines in an attempt to generate more revenue at a time when the state government is facing trouble to run welfare schemes including Lakshmir Bhandar that requires Rs 17,000 crore annually. Sources in the administration said apart from revenue, mining on new sand blocks would also help the ruling party test waters politically. “Spoils of sand mines, auctioned to private agencies, lead to ruling party feuds… The new sand mines will help us figure out if the new policy keeps local strongmen away from the trade,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-113
05-11-2021||West Bengal||Sunderbans: Thirteen rescued from sinking cargo ship ||A team of the Sunderbans district police rescued 13 persons, of whom 12 are Bangladeshi nationals, from a cargo ship carrying fly ash from Haldia to Bangladesh that capsized late on Wednesday evening. The ship toppled 300 metres from Ghoramara island off South 24-Parganas’ Sagar island near the estuary of river Hooghly Police said they received an alert from people who saw the barge sinking. A team from Ghoramara police rushed to the spot on a boat, followed by a larger team led by the officer in charge of Sagar island. “Our police team had rescued all 13 persons (including the 12 Bangladeshi nationals) from the cargo ship in the nick of time. It could have been a risk for everyone in the ship if there had been a delay, because the vessel completely submerged within a few minutes,” said Bhaskar Mukherjee, the superintendent of Sunderbans police district. Of the rescued occupants, 12 are from Bangladesh. Sources the cargo ship MV-Banglar Santi-1 loaded fly ash from Haldia and ferried the consignment to Bangladesh as part of regular waterway transit between the two countries. The pilot of this particular ship was an Indian citizen and the rest 12 were from Bangladesh. All are aged between 23 to 50 years. A police officer said that it was initially feared that this ship had hit another vessel, but later as no trace of any other vessel was seen, it was felt that the ship may have hit a sand bed. “All the crew members have been rescued and kept in a shelter in Sagar. A formal communication with the Bangladesh government has been made,” he added. The pilot of the ship Rohidul Sheikh, 41, boarded the ship from Budge Budge to Namkhana. “Under rules all the cargo ships or barges are driven by local pilots,” said a source. Fly ash is exported in a large amount to Bangladesh to produce cement. A cargo ship or barge carries around 700 tonnes of fly ash at a time.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-113
