06-11-2021||West Bengal||One killed, six injured as speeding car hits pedestrians in city||One person was killed and six people injured after a speeding car hit them in east Calcutta's Chingrighata area on Saturday afternoon, police said. The incident happened around 3.40 pm at Chingrighata crossing and the driver was arrested, they said. The car hit seven people standing on the roadside after the driver lost control of the vehicle, police said. "We are trying to find whether there was a brake failure of the vehicle," a police officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-110
06-11-2021||West Bengal||Won't tolerate more neglect, quitting party: BJP leader Joy Banerjee||Actor-turned-BJP leader Joy Banerjee on Saturday said he has decided to resign from the primary membership of the party, after having "faced neglect" in the recent years. Banerjee, who joined the BJP in 2014 and unsuccessfully contested Lok Sabha elections twice, also said that he has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, informing him about his decision to sever all association with the saffron party. "I want to work for common people and that isn't quite possible if I continue to be a part of the BJP," he told reporters. Mentioning that he has been removed from ghe BJP National Executive, Banerjee further said, "My security has also been taken away by the central leadership. I am not a new member; I had joined the party way back in 2014. I had told Narendra Modi in 2017 that I would want to do more for the organisation. But there was no response. I won't tolerate more neglect," he added. To a question if he had any plan to join the Trinamool Congress, Banerjee said he hasn't taken any such decision as yet. "All I know is that I would want to work for people," he iterated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-110
06-11-2021||West Bengal||Dilip Ghosh asks 'upset' leader Tathagata Roy to leave BJP||BJP national vice-president Dilip Ghosh on Saturday hit out at veteran colleague and former Meghalaya governor Tathagata Roy over his recent criticism of the organisation's style of functioning, and sought to know why he wasn't leaving the party if he was so upset. Roy had been critical of the decisions taken by former West Bengal minder Kailash Vijayvargiya, Ghosh, who was earlier the party's state president, and senior leaders Arvind Menon and Shiv Prakash, blaming them in a series of tweets for the saffron camp's poor show in the March-April assembly polls. He also claimed that there was "no chance" of Vijayvargiya returning to the state to oversee the operations of the Bengal BJP unit. Asked to comment on Roy's frequent jibe at him, Menon and Vijayvargiya, the former BJP state president told reporters, without taking any name, "If you are so upset and ashamed of all that is happening within the party, why don't you just leave?" The Midnapore MP, who was on his way to Delhi to attend the BJP central working committee meeting, further stated, "You (Tathagata) did nothing for the party in the recent times. But the party did everything for people like you." Roy, when contacted, maintained that he would not want to attach much importance to what Ghosh said. BJP state president Sukanta Majumder, however, steered clear of the controversy andunderlined that it was the "prerogative of the central leadership" to take a call on the comment made by Tathagata Roy. Roy had told reporters last month that he was "ashamed of some top-level leaders like Vijayvargiya as, ahead of the Bengal assembly polls, they were swayed by the glamour factor while inducting people into the BJP and did not take experience and chances of winning into consideration".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-111
06-11-2021||West Bengal||Bengal assembly to be adjourned after obituary reference to Subrata on Monday||An obituary reference would be made to Panchayat Minister Subrata Mukherjee at the West Bengal assembly in the first half on November 8, following which the House will be adjourned for the day, an official said on Saturday. The Winter session of the assembly, which began on November 1, is currently underway. "There will be an obituary meeting in the first half of the assembly on Monday. After the obituary reference, the House will be adjourned for the day. Regular businesses will be held the next day," the official said. Mukherjee, 75, died at a state-run hospital on Thursday night following a massive cardiac arrest. He was an MLA for over 50 years and a minister in the TMC government since 2011, besides holding portfolios in the Congress government in West Bengal in the 1970s.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-111
06-11-2021||West Bengal||Jhargram: Survey reveals 42% gave up LPG cylinders due to price hike||Around 42 per cent people from about 100 remote villages in Jhargram and West Midnapore gave up using LPG cylinders during the pandemic because of the rise in their prices, a survey by two academics has revealed. The survey results can challenge BJP claims that the Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana — under which these Jungle Mahal residents had obtained their cooking gas connections — has transformed women’s lives in rural India. “Our survey of 560 households from 100 villages in 13 blocks in Jhargram and West Midnapore revealed that around 42 per cent of the surveyed people abandoned their gas cylinders and went back to firewood as they could not afford LPG cylinders during the pandemic,” said Pravat Kumar Shit, principal investigator of the survey. The Yojana, launched in 2016 to boost the use of clean cooking fuel and reduce diseases, is believed to have helped the BJP in key elections. At poll campaigns across the country, BJP leaders including the Prime Minister have boasted about the scheme covering almost 98 per cent of the country. However, the survey by Shit, assistant professor of geography at Raja N.L. Khan Women’s College in Midnapore, and Debashish Sengupta, professor of geology and geophysics at IIT Kharagpur, has brought into focus the affordability of LPG cylinders among the rural poor. “Ujjwala gas dependency rapidly decreased mainly following three reasons — gas price hike, gas availability problem during the lockdown and decrease of household income,” the study says. “As the people left using LPGs, they were forced to go towards forest to meet their demand.” From Rs 620.50 in September 2020, the price of a domestic LPG cylinder had risen to Rs 926 by November 5, 2021. Shit said the survey was an offshoot of “our main survey on ‘geospatial assessment of biomass and carbon stocks of a tropical forest in Jhargram district’, under a project of the state government’s science, technology and biotechnology department”. “During the field visits, we found people had been abandoning their LPG cylinders and ovens. Many had banished them to storerooms more than a year earlier as the price of LPG cylinders increased.” Shit said the field study was conducted between November last year and September this year. The survey cites individual examples. Gita Singh, 50, from Bagmari village in Salbani block, West Midnapore, had taken the Ujjwala Yojana connection in November 2019 but stopped using LPG in January 2020. “If I buy firewood worth Rs 800, I can cook for three months while a cylinder worth Rs 900 (now) empties in a month,” Gita told the surveyors. “So, the gas is not viable for my family as we are really poor and depend on daily incomes. We can buy our monthly rations for Rs 1,000.” The study team members said Gita’s was just one among several hundred families that had turned their gas cylinder into a stand to hang things from. “In (some) remote areas there is no doorstep supply of LPG cylinders, which means (spending) Rs 100 more as transport cost,” said Mana Bhuniya of Burisol, Jhargram.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-111
06-11-2021||West Bengal||Santipur: Stock of polyester yarn worth over Rs 1 crore gutted in fire ||A stock of polyester yarn worth over Rs 1 crore was gutted when the godown where it was kept caught fire in Nadia’s Santipur amid Diwali celebrations on Thursday night. Four fire tenders managed to control the blaze that continued well into the early hours of Friday morning. While there were no fatalities, four persons suffered mild burns while shifting out the cartons of stock amid the blaze. Police and fire services personnel said on Friday that they could not conclusively ascertain the cause of the fire. An owner of the godown however claimed that a sky lantern had caused the inferno. Sources said the godown was owned by a private company that supplied polyester yarn to weavers across the textile-manufacturing hubs of Phulia and Santipur. On Thursday, the godown had a stock of around 2,000 cartons. “There was a big consignment that could not be cleared for supply owing to the prevalent Covid situation,” one of the employees of the company said. Police said at 10.45pm, the godown caught fire and the flames spread fast, engulfing the entire stockpile spanning an area over 4,000sqft. “I didn’t see how the godown caught fire. But based on the information provided by local residents, it appears that a sky lantern is responsible for the inferno,” said Jagadish Chanda, one of the owners. Local residents claimed that a malfunctioning sky lantern landed on a dead tree near the godown, sparking a fire that raced to the godown through its tin roof. “It was around 10.45pm that we noticed the flames. The impact of the fire was such that we felt its heat even from far away,” a local resident said. Sources said that initially, one fire tender from Santipur station was pressed into action. However, its weak flow failed to contain the raging blaze, prompting the authorities to call for three more fire tenders from Ranaghat and Krishnagar. “This was a huge fire that was moreover spreading really fast, engulfing adjacent areas. So, we had to call additional tenders or else it could have led to a major incident involving the whole area,” a fire official said. He said while the sky lantern had not yet been ruled out as a cause, they had not located any visual sources of the fire yet. Fire officials explained that the seemingly “harmless”sky lanterns always pose a threat to flora, and have even been considered a safety hazard to aircraft in the recent past. As a result, the sale and use of  sky lanterns has been banned in several places including within a 10km radius of airports. A senior police officer said: ”We know that sky lanterns are a potential fire hazard. But we have no orders in place prohibiting their sale in this district so far.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-111
06-11-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal logs 763 new cases, 806 recoveries and 13 deaths||Bengal on Friday logged 763 new Covid-19 cases, 806 recoveries and 13 deaths, resulting in a fall by 56 in its total of active cases to 8,137. In the 41 days since Bengal snapped out of a 97-day streak of fall in active cases, there has been a net rise of 463 in the state’s total of active cases, from 7,674. A minister said these new infections were indicative of people getting infected between October 27 and 31. Calcutta reported 203 new infections and four deaths. Calcutta, North and South 24-Parganas, Howrah, Hooghly and Nadia districts accounted for 567 or 74.31 per cent of the new infections detected on Friday. Eighteen Bengal districts reported zero deaths. Calcutta reported four deaths and North 24-Parganas three. The state’s recovery rate is 98.29 per cent, while that of the nation is 98.23 per cent. The state’s mortality rate is 1.2, while that of the nation is 1.34 per cent. The state's daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 2.53 per cent on Friday. Bengal now has over 15.97 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was logged in March last year. The total includes nearly 15.7 lakh recoveries and 19,201 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-111
06-11-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee government to fix minimum wage of tea workers ||The Mamata Banerjee government will fix the minimum wage of tea workers before the start of the next tea season that will begin in February-end or March, sources in the state labour department have said. Sources said the Bengal government wants to fix the rate before the BJP-ruled Assam government does so in the neighbouring state. A small committee has been formed which is looking into the matter. Labour department sources said specific instructions have reached them to resolve the issue and finalise the minimum wage rate based on a consensus between tea planters and tea trade unions which represent the workers. Every year, plucking of tea commences from February-end or March, after a gap of almost three months in winter. Back in 2015, the state government had constituted a committee, comprising representatives of planters, workers and senior state government officials, and assigned it the task to hear all the sides and recommend the minimum wage rate to the state government “However, no rate was been finalised till date even the committee has held a number of meetings. Recently, however, a small committee has been formed that has members of the earlier committee. This committee is now working on the issue as the chief minister wants it to be resolved immediately,” said an official of the state labour department. In Bengal, tea workers receive Rs 202 a day, following an interim hike of Rs 26 announced by the state government in January. A senior Trinamul leader in the Dooars tea belt explained the urgency to fix the minimum wage. He said that the ruling Trinamul in Bengal intends to fix the minimum wage immediately as the BJP-led government of the neighbouring Assam has taken up a similar task to fix the minimum wage. As of now, a tea worker in Assam, other than Barak valley, receives 205 rupees a day while those in Barak, receive 183 rupees. It may be mentioned that the north Bengal tea belt has been one of the regions where Trinamul had built support earlier but during the past few years, BJP has managed to tide over the party and could develop a stronger support base. “This is evident as in the Assembly elections held earlier this year, Trinamul could win only one of the Assembly seats from the 10-odd seats which are there in the tea belt. As the party has recast its focus on north Bengal, it feels that the minimum wage fixation can largely help in reviving the support base,” said Soumen Nag, a social researcher. Trade union leaders also mentioned that Trinamul does not want the minimum wage to be fixed in Assam earlier, a move which, they feel, can help the BJP. “Also, the party is focusing on Tripura, another state that has a tea population. Fixation of minimum wage in Bengal can help Trinamul to garner support from among the tea garden dwellers of Tripura as well,” a trade union leader said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-111
06-11-2021||West Bengal||Bengal finance department tightens tender clearance ||The Bengal finance department has recently issued an order making it clear that the chief engineers of works departments such as the PWD should take responsibility of finalising tenders worth up to Rs 5 crore requisitioned by other departments. With this, the finance department order dated October 29 sets aside a PWD order issued in July 2020 saying the process of finalising the tenders of projects worth more than Rs 2 crore would be passed on to departments that requisition projects to the PWD. The order clearly states that some works departments were referring “cases for acceptance of tenders” to the non-works departments that “don’t have the requisite technical expertise”. The order is deemed significant as the PWD’s July 2020 order had left non-works departments in trouble because they lack the required technical expertise to finalise tenders and award projects to a competent agency. Last year’s move by the PWD, which had been seen by many in bureaucratic circles as an attempt to shrug off responsibilities, had left open the scope for incompetent agencies to bag state government projects. “Technical competence of any agency can be judged properly only by a department that has engineering back-up,” said a senior governance official. Sources in the government said that the way the finance department has come forward to the rescue of all other department had set an example. “If the finance department comes forward to put a stop on (this sort of) bureaucratic passing-the-buck, (state government) projects can be completed on time and cost escalation can be averted,” said a source. According to sources, it was a practice in the government that the works departments, which have a strong engineering set-up like the PWD, execute development projects on behalf of the non-works departments that don’t have expertise in the area. “From preparing detailed project reports to floating tenders and finalising the tender process, everything was managed by the PWD after the projects were requisitioned. But last year, the PWD decided to hand over the responsibility of finalising the tenders to the departments themselves... an attempt (by the PWD) to shrug off responsibility. The finance department’s order now has put the onus back on the PWD,” said a senior government official. A bureaucrat explained why the order by the finance department was timely and useful for many non-works departments. Citing an example, he said that if the PWD sends back submitted bids by agencies to the school education department to finalise a tender floated to construct a school building, it would be tough for the school education department to take a call as it does not have an engineering wing to scrutinise the merits of each bidder.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-111
06-11-2021||West Bengal||Diwali-eve duty cut on petrol and diesel saddles pump owners||One person’s cheaper petrol can be another person’s poison. The unexpected Diwali-eve duty cut on petrol and diesel has saddled pump owners with big stocks they bought at a higher price but can be sold only at lower rates. Individually, consumers may not have gained much from the cuts that translate into gains of over Rs 5 a litre of petrol and over Rs 11 a litre of diesel after steep increases for several weeks. But since each dealer holds several hundreds of litres of stocks bought at the old rates, he or she stands to lose a substantial amount, several pump owners  across Bengal said on Friday. A combination of factors  appears to have played a part in dealing the blow to the dealers. “There was a huge rush to stock up on fuel on Wednesday because of Diwali the next day (Thursday). Bharat Petroleum was closed yesterday (Thursday) and Indian Oil is closed today (Friday). So, everyone wanted to stock up,” said a petrol dealer. Oil companies had also pushed sales asking pumps to lift stock during the month-end, which they say is routine. Just when the dealers had stocked up, the duty cuts were announced – the timing probably decided by the bypoll setback to the BJP although the Narendra Modi government cited the need to control inflation. “In Darjeeling, we had to sell petrol bearing a loss of Rs 5.82 per litre and diesel at a loss of Rs 11.77 per litre,” said a dealer. The price of petrol changed from Rs 112.24 to Rs 106.42 and for diesel the change was from Rs 102.92 to Rs 91.15 in Darjeeling between Wednesday and Thursday. “We bought products at the old rate,” said the dealer. Payments have to be made the day stocks are lifted from oil depots. A dealer with multiple outlets in south Bengal said: “Let’s put it this way. All the inventory gain I made from April 1 because of rising fuel prices have gone away and I ended up on the losing side marginally simply because all my outlets had stocked up. I may not have lost any money, had this cut taken place on the 10th (of the month, when inventories are usually lower than that at the beginning of a month).” Petrol and diesel prices went up by Rs 19.72 a litre and Rs 17.81 a litre, respectively, since April 1 before the excise duty cut. He pointed out that the capital requirement of fuel dealerships has been steadily rising over the past year. However, dealers in Bengal say they are better off than their counterparts in some sates like Karnataka where states have also cut VAT rates. Bikash Agarwal, general secretary of the North Bengal Petrol Dealers’ Association, said: “Increase and decrease in our products’ price are gradual. This sudden and steep cut hit the dealers hard.” John Mukherjee, president of the Indian Oil Dealer’s Forum, said depending on volume of stock and location, each petrol pump in Bengal has suffered losses ranging from Rs 3 lakh to Rs 4 lakh. Indrajit Roy, who owns two petrol pumps in Birbhum district, said that “as of today (Friday) I suffered a loss of Rs 10 lakh” since the slash in rate. A dealer pointed out that an increase in price has no bearing on their profits. “We get a commission of Rs 3.64 a litre on petrol and Rs 2.33 a litre on diesel, irrespective of the day’s selling rate. This commission has not been changed in the last three years,” the dealer added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-111
06-11-2021||West Bengal||TMC veteran Subrata Mukherjee cremated with full state honours||A gun salute being accorded to Trinamul veteran and minister Subrata Mukherjee at Keoratala crematorium on Friday in the presence of the party’s national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee, and party colleagues Madan Mitra, Firhad Hakim, Saugata Roy, Derek O’Brien, Aroop Biswas, among others. Mukherjee, 75, had succumbed to his cardiac ailment on Thursday night, ending five decades of public life. His last journey began from Peace World in Topsia. At 10am, the cortege reached Rabindra Sadan, where it remained for four hours with hundreds across party lines paying tribute to Mukherjee. Many from the BJP hailed him as an able chief minister that Bengal never had. Left leaders, his ideological foes with whom he shared cordial ties, lauded him as a stalwart. Many from the Congress and Trinamul remembered him fondly as someone with the heart of a child, who loved sweets and was afraid of ghosts. At 2.15pm, the cortege reached the Vidhan Sabha, and around half-an-hour later, his Ekdalia residence in Ballygunge. At 3.30pm, the hearse started its journey, accompanied by thousands on foot, to Keoratala. From around 4.45pm, at Keoratala, he was given a gun salute by a police contingent, part of his funeral with full state honours. Mukherjee’s last rites began around 5.15pm. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee had said on Thursday that she would not be able to see his lifeless body and would not be present at Friday’s funeral. In Mukherjee’s ancestral village Napara in East Burdwan district, his lifelong friend Samsul Islam remembered “Subrata who loved joramonda (a traditional sweet) since his school days”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-111
06-11-2021||West Bengal||East Budwan: Five of family killed, seven injured in road accident||Five persons, including two children, of a family died and seven others were injured when the car ferrying them collided with a dumper truck in East Budwan’s Dewandighi early on Friday morning. Police and family sources said the victims, residents of  Syedpara village in Murshidabad’s Burwan, were returning from Calcutta airport after receiving Kaushar Sheikh, who had gone to work in Mumbai as a migrant worker and was returning to his village after around year-and-a half. All the family members had left the village on Thursday evening and started from Calcutta airport around midnight. On the way back home, when the car was crossing Dewandighi, on the outskirts of Burdwan, it collided with a dumper truck killing five persons on the spot around 4.30am on Friday. “Five persons have been killed and the injured have been admitted to the Burdwan Medical College and Hospital. We have registered a suo-motu case in this connection and are trying to track down the dumper that hit the car,” said Kamanasish Sen, the East Burdwan police chief. “My brother was coming by flight after almost two years and so all the family members had gone to receive him from the airport. They had hired an SUV to bring him home but we woke up to the ghastly news when police called up to share the information,” said Kaushar’s sister Dulali Biwi, 36. The deceased have been identified as Kaushar’s father Rashid Sheikh, 64, the migrant worker’s nephews Ariyan Sheikh, 6, and Sayan Sheikh, 3, and his daughters Saynoor Khatun, 17, and Sonali Khatun, 19. Doctors at the Burdwan Medical College and Hospital said conditions of Kaushar, 43, and six others, including drivers of both the vehicles, were critical. “We suspect that the driver of the car fell asleep at the wheels and rammed into the truck. However, we are looking into what had led to the incident,” said a police officer in East Burdwan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-111
06-11-2021||West Bengal||Subrata Mukherjee’s childhood friends mourn in East Burdwan||Friends, classmates and villagers of Napara in  Purbasthali, East Burdwan, came together on Friday morning at the ancestral home of Subrata Mukherjee to pay tribute to the minister who died in Calcutta on Thursday night. Napara, which falls under Bogpur gram panchayat of  Purbasthali, is the ancestral home of the Mukherjee family. Mukherjee’s father Ashok Nath Mukherjee had been a teacher at the local school. Mukherjee also studied till Class IV at Napara primary school before the family shifted to Budge Budge on the outskirts of Calcutta about 65 years ago. After the news of Subrata’s demise reached the village, residents and local Trinamul leaders held a late-night meeting and decided to arrange a modest event on the land belonging to the Mukherjee family early on Friday morning. At least four villagers, who studied at the local school with him and had remained his friends till his last days, shared memories of the time spent with the colourful politician. “I studied with him till Class IV. He never forgot anything about the village, his friends and villagers. When he used to come here, he used to ask me about everyone he knew. He loved joramonda (a sweetmeat) and every time I met him in Calcutta, he would want me to bring the sweet that is part of our childhood memories. He was really a friend who did not forget me even after becoming an important person,” said Mukherjee’s classmate Samsul Islam. Swapan Debnath, minister and Trinamul MLA from Purbasthali, also attended the event. “Subrata da was very passionate about his village. Every year he used to come and worship at the local Siddheswari temple. He visited Burdwan last month when he told me that the land he owned in Napara would be donated for the common use of villagers. Villagers on Friday got together to mourn the loss of a great soul,” Debnath said At least a hundred villagers queued up on Friday morning and offered floral tribute to the late minister. “He was our guardian and always happy to help us in crises. We will conduct a big meeting to condole his death soon,” said Parimal Debnath, a functionary of Purbasthali panchayat samity and a Trinamul leader. Subrata was also a frequent visitor to his maternal uncle’s home at Mandalgram village in East Burdwan’s Memari. He used to visit the village a few times a year and had contributed to several development initiatives at Mandalgram. Following Subrata’s demise, family members of his maternal uncle and villagers mourned the loss of a “guardian of their village”. “He always helped us and never turned down any proposal for development from us. Recently, we had requested him to help renovate the village temple. He had promised to talk to the local administration and get some funds for the temple’s repair after Durga Puja. That will not happen anymore. We have lost a guardian who always took good care of us,” said a villager of Mandalgram.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-112
06-11-2021||West Bengal||Rail offer: Cheaper fly ash transport||Officials of the Malda division of Eastern Railway have taken up the task to augment their income by increasing cargo movement in the division. As part of the plan, they held a meeting with a delegation of West Bengal Power Development Corporation (WBPDCL) and came up with a proposal that they are ready to ferry fly ash, a by-product  in thermal power stations, at a cost cheaper than road transport. “Indian Railways has set a target to scale up its cargo movement and thus, increase its earnings. Our division, too, is working on it and last Tuesday, we held a meeting with WBPDCL officials and told them that goods trains are a good option to transport fly ash. We believe this plan will work for us in due course,” said Satyendra Kumar Tiwari, the divisional mechanical engineer of Malda division. The WBPDCL, a wholly-owned organisation of the Bengal government, runs thermal power plants in a number of locations, including Bakreswar and Sagardighi. Every day, tonnes of fly ash are produced in these power stations, most of which are dumped in adjoining areas of the plant. “Fly ash has huge demand in the construction sector as it is used to make bricks. If we can rope in the WBPDCL, fly ash can be sent to brick kilns,” said a railway official. Brick kiln owners based in Malda said as fly ash continues to pile up near the thermal plants, a number of plants provide free transport for the material till 40km from the plant. “If the item is sent via train, we do not have any problem but the railways will have to improve infrastructure and increase rake points so that the ash can be unloaded at a site closer to brick kilns. Also, the cost element has to be considered and it has to be cheaper,” said Himadri Roy, a brick kiln owner in Malda. According to railway sources, they will hold talks with trade bodies of Malda district to enhance cargo movement. “We want to explore all options to find out the goods that can be ferried via rail instead of road,” said a source. Representatives of trade bodies said the railways must come up with facilities to encourage movement of goods via rail. “Whenever a consignment reaches its destination station, the railways provide only 12 hours to unload the goods from the rake and then charge a penalty. The railways should increase it to 24 hours,” said Jayanta Kundu, secretary, Malda Merchant Chamber of Commerce.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-112
06-11-2021||West Bengal||Cannabis worth Rs 10 lakh seized from Malda district||Police seized over a quintal of cannabis estimated at Rs 10 lakh from a pick-up van in Malda on Thursday evening. Hirak Biswas, the inspector-in-charge of Malda police station, said the narcotic, weighing around 112.65 kilos, was on its way to Barrackpore in North 24-Parganas from Cooch Behar. “We intercepted the vehicle on NH12 while it was crossing Malda. As we searched the vehicle, we found the cannabis wrapped in a package and were concealed under heaps of pineapples. The driver of the vehicle has been arrested. Charges have been brought against him under the NDPS Act,” Biswas said. The person arrested has been identified as Mithun Burman, a resident of Kukurkuchua village under Sahebganj police station of Cooch Behar district. The estimated price of the seized cannabis is around Rs 10 lakh, sources said. “The police in Cooch Behar have launched a crackdown to stop illegal cultivation of cannabis, which is why the drug smugglers are trying to sent the narcotics to other districts to prevent seizure,” said a  source. In another incident in Cooch Behar, a team of Buxirhat police station acted on a tip off and seized illegal timber from a truck that had entered the district from Assam on Thursday night. Police sources said they intercepted the truck that was heading towards Rajasthan and made the seizure. “The driver and the cleaner of the truck could not furnish us proper documents to validate transportation of the timber. We have arrested them and seized the timber and the truck,” said a police officer. “Altogether, 1,305 pieces of wooden logs, measuring around four feet by seven feet, which measure around 900 cubic feet, have been seized. We have contacted the state forest department to identify the timber and also ascertain its value,” the police officer added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-112
06-11-2021||West Bengal||Partha Pratim Roy receives fresh threats from KLO||Partha Pratim Roy, former MP and a prominent Trinamul leader who is also a Rajbanshi face of the party in Cooch Behar, has received fresh threats from the Kamtapur Liberation Organisation (KLO), a banned militant outfit, for opposing its principal demand of a Kamtapur state comprising the entire north Bengal. Following the latest threats in October-end, Roy’s security will be beefed up. The KLO, formed by a group of Rajbanshi youths and is led by its self-styled chief Jeevan Singha a.k.a. Tamir Das who hails from Kumargam of Alipurduar district, had issued a threat to Roy in October-end and earlier in July. Many KLO members are now suspected to be in Myanmar and trying to regroup again. “Recently, the outfit has again threatened Partha Pratim Roy for his stand against the demand of statehood. That is why his security is being planned and his residence will be brought under CCTV camera surveillance,” said an intelligence official. Roy’s ancestral residence is in Jiranpur on the outskirts of Cooch Behar town where his parents stay. He, however, stays in an apartment in the town. Roy said he would stick to his stand. “I am not worried about what a militant outfit thinks of it. I am against any further division of Bengal,” he said. On Thursday, a team of senior police officers visited Roy’s residence to discuss the enhanced security cover, said sources. From now on, the personnel of the state’s combat force with sophisticated firearms will accompany him. “CCTV cameras will be installed in and around his apartment,  his ancestral home and  his in-laws’ place. From now on, two police vehicles comprising armed policemen will run with him round the clock,” said a police officer. In another development, some members of a welfare society of former KLO militants and linkmen turned up to Roy’s residence on Friday and felicitated him for his initiatives to rehabilitate them. “It is because of him that many of us have got government jobs. We thanked him for his efforts and assured him that all of us are with him,” said Pranesh Ishore, a former militant and a member of the association.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-112
06-11-2021||West Bengal||Three persons die as car crashes  into tree in Jalpaiguri||Three persons died on spot after a vehicle rammed into a roadside tree on NH 31C near Nagrakata in Jalpaiguri on Friday morning. Police have recovered the bodies. The victims are yet to be identified. According to sources, a car was heading towards Nagrakata from Chalsa along the highway. The driver suddenly lost control and crashed the vehicle into a roadside tree near Panjhorabusty. “There were three persons inside the car and all of them had died on the spot. Some liquor bottles were found inside the vehicle. We suspect that the driver was drunk and lost control while driving. We are waiting for the post-mortem reports. Information has been passed to different police stations so that the victims can be identified,” said a police officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-112
