07-11-2021||West Bengal||Malda: Bomb explodes in house, portion of tin roof blown off||A portion of the tin roof of a house was blown off in West Bengal's Malda district on Sunday after a bomb exploded in it, police said. "Nobody was injured in the blast that took place in Asliatola village under Motiharpur gram panchayat in the afternoon," Sub-divisional Police Officer of Chanchal, Shuvendu Mandal said. The owner of the house, Rousnara Bibi, said the bomb was either hurled from outside or planted inside the house without her and her husband's knowledge. "She said she had fainted after the explosion and was unable to hear anything for some time after regaining consciousness. The police are questioning the occupants of the house," the SDPO said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-110
07-11-2021||West Bengal||TMC urges Centre to extend free ration scheme for six more months||The TMC on Sunday urged the Centre to extend its free ration scheme under Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana (PMGKAY) for another six months amid reports that the programme might be discontinued after November 30. The scheme was launched in March last year, after the COVID-19 pandemic struck, leaving lakhs of people in distress.  Veteran TMC MP Sougata Roy told reporters that he would soon write to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, seeking an extension of the scheme. "Poor people of this country, still reeling under the devastating impact of the pandemic, will be hit hard if the scheme is discontinued," he pointed out.  The Centre had on Friday said that there was no proposal at present to continue PMGKAY, given the recovery in the economy and good disposal of foodgrain under the Open Market Sale Scheme (OMSS). Roy further said that the state government will continue to provide ration to people free of cost.  "Those grappling with economic crisis in the midst of the rising fuel prices will need assistance from the state as well as the Centre. If the Union government discontinues the scheme, it will add to their woes," the TMC MP stated. He hoped the central government will reconsider its plans.  "I will be writing to PM Narendra Modi soon to request him to continue the scheme for another six months," the Dumdum MP said on the sidelines of a function here. At another event in the city, Left Front Chairman and veteran CPI(M) leader Biman Bose also put forth the same demand.  "We know that this country has enough foodgrain for distribution among the poor. And running the scheme for an extended period of time should not be a problem," Bose added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-110
07-11-2021||West Bengal||BJP worker stabbed to death in Purba Medinipur||The BJP on Sunday alleged that a party member was lynched by TMC supporters in West Bengal's Purba Medinipur district, an accusation rubbished by the ruling side.  The body of Sambhu Maity was found with multiple stab wounds from the bank of Keleghai river near a college in Bhagabanpur area, police said.  A case has been registered and the matter is being investigated from all angles, they said.  Goons allegedly sheltered by the TMC asked Sambhu out of his home in Muhammadpur village around midnight, and lynched him, Bhagabanpur BJP MLA Rabindranath Maity claimed.  "Even after eight-nine months of the election, BJP workers are being murdered in cold blood by Trinamool Congress, which does not believe in giving free space to opponents as it believes in the politics of murder and bloodshed," he said.  If police do not nab the culprits, the BJP will start an agitation, he added.  Local TMC leaders claimed that Sambhu was a victim of infighting within the BJP.  The BJP is trying to disrupt prevailing peace in the area, they alleged.  The BJP has alleged that at least 30 party workers were killed in violence following the assembly elections in West Bengal, inviting sharp criticism from the TMC which has maintained that the opposition party was trying to gain political mileage by misrepresenting incidents of family feuds and local disputes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-110
07-11-2021||West Bengal||State PWD to start installing the Bailey bridge from Monday ||The state PWD (NH-IX division) will start installing the Bailey bridge over the damaged bridge on the Balason river on the northwest-end of Siliguri from Monday. “Three trucks loaded with the iron structures of the bailey bridge that was installed at Majherhat, reached here on Saturday. We expect the rest of the structures to arrive here by Sunday. As of now, the plan is to start the installation process from Monday,” said an official of the state PWD (NH-IX division). Iron components of the temporary bridge started reaching here in trucks from Calcutta on Saturday. These components are of Majerhat in Calcutta, where the Bailey bridge was installed when a flyover collapsed at the site in 2018. Since October 20, vehicular movement has been halted on the Balason river bridge as one of its pillars tilted and a portion of the concrete plank of the bridge sank to an extent. Sources in the department said they have received clear instructions from the state government to work on a war footing to get the link functional, considering its vital location. The Balason bridge is along NH31, the principal highway that connects Siliguri, the hills, some other north Bengal districts and the northeast, to the rest of the country. “We intend to finish the installation work by November 30. After that, trial runs would be held and the bridge inspected to confirm that it is ready for the traffic load. It seems the bridge will be ready for traffic from the first week of next month,” said a source. Residents of Siliguri and surrounding areas continue to bear the brunt of traffic snarls as all vehicles are moving through Naukaghat More and a stretch of Asian Highway II in the southern end of the city. With the Balason bridge out of bounds, traffic congestion has proved to be particularly severe in this festive season. Even on Saturday,  thousands came out to visit Kali Puja pandals. “These days, it is taking over half-an-hour to cross a stretch of 2 to 3 kilometres through the busy thoroughfares of the city,” said Proloy Choudhury, a bank employee based in Siliguri. He added: “There is an apprehension that traffic congestion will increase in the coming days as a number of schools will reopen from November 16. Hundreds of school buses are likely run across the city.” In the course of the Kali Puja and Diwali celebrations, the Siliguri Metropolitan Police had to deploy additional forces in all important crossings to manage traffic. Even senior police officers were seen monitoring the traffic flow till late hours. “We are monitoring the traffic through CCTV cameras as well and taking appropriate steps such as diverting vehicles to alternative routes to ensure that the flow is smooth,” said an officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-110
07-11-2021||West Bengal||BJP, allies in tight spot over GTA election in hills||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee may have put the BJP and its allies in the hills in a tight spot with her announcement on holding the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA) election soon because these parties have been principally opposed to the concept of the GTA. The BJP and its allies, which include the Gorkha National Liberation Front (GNLF), however, have repeatedly said that people of hills have rejected the GTA. Privately, hill leaders across political lines admit that real power in the hills comes from being in control of the regional bodies. Many observers feel if the BJP and its allies decide to contest the elections, it could show them in poor light, as an instance of their going back on their word. Mamata recently announced that the GTA polls, due since 2017, would be held after the revision of electoral rolls. The process is likely to be completed on January 5. Asked on the GTA polls, Kalyan Dewan, the president of the BJP’s Darjeeling hill committee, said this wasn’t the right time to hold them. “The Centre has already held tripartite talks to find a permanent political solution for the hills. A permanent solution should be worked out first and then elections to that body (the GTA) should be held,” said Dewan. He, however, said the party has not taken any decision on the GTA elections. “At the moment our focus is on tripartite talks. To hold the GTA elections is to go against the aspirations of the hills,” said Dewan. In September, Union home minister Amit Shah held a tripartite meeting inviting BJP legislators and leaders of their allies to seek a permanent political solution. However, the term “permanent political solution”, has still not been defined. The BJP's biggest ally in the hills, the GNLF, is also caught on a sticky wicket over the GTA. The GNLF has filed a case with Calcutta High Court challenging the constitutional validity of the GTA Act in 2012. “If we aspire to be in power in the hills, we cannot afford to ignore the GTA elections as finding a permanent political solution could take time,” admitted a GNLF leader. “Given our stand on the GTA it will be difficult for the GNLF to contest the elections, but we will probably have to come up with an out-of-the-box strategy.” President of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha and Trinamul ally Bimal Gurung has also announced that “he” would not contest the GTA polls but has not specified if his party would also stay away. “Ultimately, the Morcha may contest the polls without Gurung or they may come up with an excuse to pave way for Gurung’s participation in the polls,” said an observer. The Anit Thapa-led Gorkha Prajatantrik Morcha and former GNLF leader Ajoy Edwards, however, have made it clear that they will contest the GTA elections.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-110
07-11-2021||West Bengal||Amit Shah’s lunch host, a tribal villager in Bolpur, cries neglect||Tribal villager Bibhishan Hansda, 48, who had hosted Union home minister Amit Shah’s lunch at his home in Bankura on November 5 last year, on Saturday accused the BJP of reneging on its promise of support to treat his teenage diabetic daughter. The Union home minister had visited Chaturdihi village in Bankura last year when the local BJP leadership had organised his lunch at Hansda’s home as part of the saffron party’s tribal outreach before the Assembly polls. Hansda had told The Telegraph that he got no chance to speak to his guest. Hansda said he wanted to speak to Shah to seek aid for the treatment of his 18-year-old daughter Rachana. To assuage the villager, BJP’s Bankura MP Subhas Sarkar, now the junior education minister in the Narendra Modi government, was deputed to assist the family. "We were promised continuous support for my daughter’s medicines, were told she would be taken to AIIMS in Delhi. It seems they have forgotten the promises,” said Hansda, a poor farmer. Rachana, who is diabetic from an early age, needs medicines worth Rs 5,000 a month. “We received help from the BJP till four months ago... I did get free medicines for my daughter. But there has been no support since, and I forced to buy medicines on my own,” said Hansda. “My monthly income is hardly Rs 10,000.” Sarkar denied charges of his party cooling off. He said Rachana was not been taken to the AIIMS because of the pandemic. “We assigned a medicine shop from where he had to collect medicines for free... It may be that he did not collect it. The girl was being treated by an endocrinologist. We are always with the family,” said Sarkar. Hansda claimed he got money to buy medicines, but only till four months back. Trinamul leader Shyamal Santra rubbed it in. “It is very sad that the BJP leaders could forget the host of Amit Shah, the Union home minister.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-110
07-11-2021||West Bengal||Coronavirus outbreak: Active Covid cases fall||Bengal on Saturday reported 670 new Covid-19 infections, 764 recoveries and 14 deaths, resulting in a fall by 108 in its active cases to 8,029. In the past 42 days, since Bengal snapped out of a 97-day streak of fall in active cases, there has been a net rise of 355 in the number of people being treated for Covid-19, from 7,674. A minister said the new infections reported on Saturday indicated people who were infected between October 28 and November 1 (three days before Kali Puja). Calcutta reported 181 new infections and North 24-Parganas 126, the only two of the state’s 23 districts with a three-digit figure of new cases found in a day. Seven districts reported a single-digit figure. Calcutta, North and South 24-Parganas, Howrah, Hooghly and Nadia accounted for 475 or 70.89 per cent of the new infections detected on Saturday. Calcutta logged four deaths and North 24-Parganas reported two. Sixteen districts reported zero deaths. The state’s recovery rate is 98.29 per cent now, while that of the nation is 98.23 per cent. Bengal’s daily positive confirmation rate, nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 2.21 per cent on Saturday. The state’s mortality rate is 1.2 per cent, while that of the nation is 1.34 per cent. Bengal now has nearly 15.98 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was logged in March last year. The total includes over 15.7 lakh recoveries and 19,215 deaths||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-110
07-11-2021||West Bengal||Three rivulets in Jalpaiguri district dry up, pave way for farms||At least three rivulets flowing through Jalpaiguri district have dried up and their beds have changed into fertile agricultural land over the years. On a drive along the state highway that connects Jalpaiguri town with Haldibari in Cooch Behar district — both towns are on the right bank of the Teesta — one will come across three bridges. However, a closer look below the bridges will not reveal rivers but riverbeds full of lush green crops ranging from paddy to vegetables. Back in 1971, when a bridge was built over the Buri Teesta, a distributary of the Teesta, there used to be water in it all round the year, recall senior residents of Kashiabari, a nearby locality. “But over the years, the river has dried up. The riverbed has now turned into agricultural land. It is disappointing that we have lost a natural water source,” said Pradip Burman, a senior fisherman. Like Buri Teesta, two other streams — the Kalai and Kali — located between Ghughudanga and Kashiabari on the Jalpaiguri–Haldibari route have also dried up. Paritosh Burman, a farmer who lives in Ghughudanga, said they cultivated different crops, especially vegetables, on the beds of both these streams. “When there is heavy rain in nearby areas, some water accumulates in the beds. Otherwise, there is hardly any sign of water here. Many of us cultivate crops on the beds as the soil is quite fertile,” the farmer said. He said if the bridges were replaced by roads, nobody would even know that the rivulets ever existed in the area. Experts, when told about the drying up of these streams, said it was necessary to stop encroachment along riverbeds and agricultural activities on the dry patches of land. “The beds should be kept free so that the river water can flow in its natural speed. Such depletion of natural water resources can pose problems for the adjoining areas in due course,” said Jatiswar Bharati, a retired teacher and a state committee member of Bangiya Bhugol Mancha. Officials of the state irrigation department said they were aware of the situation and would take steps to revive the flow of these streams. “During the past few years, we have managed to revive two rivulets in Alipurduar and one in Cooch Behar. We have plans to start reviving these streams as well, starting with Buri Teesta,” said Shubhankar Chakraborty, the chief engineer (north-east) of the department. Members of Astha Foundation, a social organisation in Cooch Behar, celebrated Bhaiphonta on Saturday by putting the auspicious phonta or sandal dot on a Talli (Albizia saman) tree, also known as rain tree. One of the oldest trees in the town, famed for its canopy, it had been planted when Cooch Behar was a princely state. Children also put phonta on the tree. Astha Foundation members gave saplings to 150-odd people. “We wanted to use the festival to spread the message on protecting trees,” said Shankar Roy, a member.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-110
