08-11-2021||West Bengal||PIL in high court questions delay in holding Bengal civic elections ||Nearly a week after Trinamul made a clean sweep in the Assembly by-polls, a public interest litigation has been filed in the Calcutta High Court questioning why the state government was delaying polls to the civic bodies, most of which are now being run by administrators as their terms have ended. In some of the civic bodies like Howrah Municipal Corporation, Berhampore and Krishnagar municipalities, elections have been due since 2018. The Calcutta Municipal Corporation election should have been held in 2020 but got delayed because of the Covid pandemic. Last Tuesday, hours after the bypoll results were declared, the state government wrote to the state election commission that it was keen on holding polls in the Calcutta and Howrah municipal corporations in December. Appearing on behalf of the petitioner, counsel Sabyasachi Chatterjee questioned why the state had selected only two civic bodies for holding elections now and ignored the rest? On the instruction of the bench, copies of the petition have been sent to the state government and the state poll panel. Amidst the raging pandemic, the civic bodies _ 118 municipalities and seven municipal coprporations _ are being run by state-appointed administrators. In 2018, panchayat polls were held in Bengal amidst allegations of widespread electoral malpractices and coercive measures adopted by the ruling Trinamul. The Opposition has accused the ruling Trinamul of  disallowing parties from filing nominations and preventing people from exercising their right to vote. The anger of 2018 was reflected in the Lok Sabha polls a year later, when BJP won 18 of the 42 seats. “Didi felt it was not conducive to hold polls now and that the results could have gone against the party. As the Assembly elections were due in two years, her focus was on keeping her government in power,” said a Trinamul source. After the Lok Sabha polls, several local boards, especially in the Lok Sabha constituencies where the BJP had won, changed hands as councillors defected to the saffron camp. Later, the councillors returned to the Trinamul leaving the BJP high and dry. The Covid pandemic in 2020 helped Mamata push the civic polls further back. The brute majority with which the Trinamul returned to power in the summer of 2021 and registered victories in seven other Assembly seats in subsequent by-polls, two of which were held by the BJP, has now given Mamata the impetus to go ahead with the civic polls. Trinamul sources said  Mamata was  testing the waters with the civic polls. “She does not want to rush with the civic polls. We may have got a landslide majority in the Assembly, but it cannot be denied that there is anger at the grassroots level and civic polls are contested on local issues, where the party may not have control,” said a Trinamul source. “In case of any adverse results in either Calcutta or Howrah, which is unlikely, we can change our strategy in the remaining civic bodies.” The Left and the Congress, without any seat in the Assembly this time, however, had formed boards in Siliguri Municipal Corporation and the Joynagar-Majilpur municipality respectively. Both parties have thrown hints at holding talks at the local level to decide on an alliance. At a meeting here on October 30, state Congress president Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury had asked party leaders to assess their strengths in each of the civic boards in all districts and submit a report. Left Front chairman Biman Bose on Sunday said that talks were held before the Assembly polls on alliances in 80 per cent to 90 per cent of the seats. Left Front partners will meet later in the week to decide on possible seat-sharing with the Congress. The Calcutta High Court has fixed the next date of hearing on the civic polls on November 17.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-108
08-11-2021||West Bengal||Legislators in Bengal Assembly fondly remember late minister Subrata Mukherjee||Legislators of the West Bengal Assembly on Monday paid rich and moving tributes to state minister Subrata Mukherjee, who died last week following a massive heart attack, and hailed him as a tall leader who was loved by one and all, irrespective of their political affiliation. In a special resolution tabled in the Assembly, Speaker Biman Banerjee said that Mukherjee was a multi-faceted personality, who contributed to the trade union movement, both at the national and international levels. He noted that Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee was still grief-stricken and could not bear to attend the session.  Mukherjee is a bright star in the history of parliamentary democracy, the speaker added. Parliamentary Affairs Minister Partha Chatterjee said Mukherjee's demise is a great loss for him, both personally and politically. "There is no word to describe his political and administrative acumen. It is sad that he will never be sitting next to me in the Assembly again," he lamented.  Leader of the Opposition and BJP legislator Suvendu Adhikari fondly remembered the deceased leader as a "family friend", whose name will be etched in history of Bengal politics. TMC legislators Sobhandev Chatterjee and Firhad Hakim also paid glorious tributes to the leader, and described him as a witty and sociable person, who was adored by people.  Others who spoke on the occasion were BJP MLA Manoj Tigga, TMC legislators Chandrima Bhattacharya and Manas Bhuniya. All members observed silence for two minutes as a mark of respect.  The speaker later adjourned the House for the day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-109
08-11-2021||West Bengal||George Floyd 2.0: Civic volunteer seen kicking suspected snatcher||A civic volunteer of Kolkata Police was demobilised after he was seen kicking a suspected snatcher and pressing his foot on the chest of the accused in a purported video, a senior officer said on Monday. The incident that happened on Sunday evening in Rabindra Sadan area in the city drew condemnation from all walks of life and evoked memories of the 2020 killing of African American George Floyd by a policeman in the US.  Kolkata Police Commissioner Soumen Mitra also criticised the incident and ordered a probe into it. "This is an unfortunate incident. We condemn this and have demobilised the civic volunteer concerned.  "We train them constantly but somehow this has happened. An inquiry has already been initiated," Mitra told PTI. The pickpocket was caught by passengers of a bus while he was allegedly trying to snatch purse of a woman near the city's Rabindra Sadan crossing and handed over to the police.  The civic volunteer, when contacted, said he kicked the man accused of pickpocketing to stop him from fleeing the spot. "It was unintentional. He was trying to escape and I had put my foot on his chest to stop him. I am sorry for my actions," the civic volunteer said.  Floyd was killed in a brutal abuse of the police force on May 25 last year during an arrest after a store clerk alleged that he had passed a counterfeit USD 20 bill in Minneapolis in the US. A policeman pinned down Floyd with his knee on the pavement of a south Minneapolis intersection for more than nine minutes. The death of the man resulted in violent protests in the US.  Former Minneapolis Police Officer Derek Chauvin was sentenced to 22 years and six months in prison for the murder of George Floyd.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-109
08-11-2021||West Bengal||Cooch Behar Trinamul leader attacked, BJP blamed ||A block Trinamul leader, who is also an elected representative in a rural body, was assaulted by suspected BJP supporters in DinhataI block of Cooch Behar district on Saturday night. Banik Roy, who is the deputy of a Trinamul-run panchayat of the block, said he was on way home from a club in Petla area. While he was crossing a locality, a group of youths, allegedly BJP supporters, came on motorcycles and intercepted him. "They were in three motorcycles and attacked me. I was pushed, kicked and punched as they went on hurling abuses at me for actively engaging in political activities. As I raised an alert, some local residents rushed to help and the attackers fled," said Roy, who is under treatment at the subdivisional hospital in Dinhata. As the news spread, a team from Dinhata police station visited the spot. They have also registered a case and are probing the incident. The BJP, however, has denied the charge. “It is the fallout of Trinamul's internal rivalry,” said a BJP leader. Crude bombs explode Two persons, including a woman, got injured after some crude bombs, concealed in a pile of cow dung, exploded at Brohmanir Chowki village under BhetaguriII panchayat of Dinhata on Sunday. The woman is under treatment at a private nursing home in Cooch Behar. The man has been released after first aid. Police officers have visited the spot. A search would be conducted in the locality to find out if more bombs are hidden, said sources.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-109
08-11-2021||West Bengal||Rare feat  for Himalayan Mountaineering Institute head: Adventure award twice||Group Captain Jai Kishan, principal of the Himalayan Mountaineering Institute in Darjeeling, will receive the Tenzing Norgay National Adventure Award, the highest honour in adventure sports in India, under the lifetime achievement category, making him the first person from India’s defence forces to get the award twice. The 50-year-old Indian Air Force officer had received the same award in 2010 in the air adventure category for setting a world record with a skydiving jump over the base of Mt Everest. Apart from him, two more defence personnel and four civilians will receive the national adventure awards this year on November 13 at the Rashtrapati Bhavan. Typically, the award is given in four categories, land, water and air adventure and lifetime achievement. The award comprises a statuette, certificate and a prize money of Rs 15 lakh. “I would like to dedicate this award to the youths of the country and people of Darjeeling who have always extended their hand to our endeavours. I have always been inspired by Sir Tenzing (Norgay Sherpa) and would like to dedicate the award to Sir, too,” Kishan said. Not just a skydiver, Kishan is a parachute jump instructor and a qualified mountaineer who holds six world records, one Asian record and six national records in adventure sports. In the last 20 years, he has trained more than 20,000 para jumpers and more than 3,000 mountaineers and adventure enthusiasts, and personally undertaken more than 2,000 parachute jumps in India. In April 2021, he successfully led an expedition to four peaks in Sikkim in which 125 trainee mountaineers climbed four peaks in 125 hours and unfurled a 7,500sqft Indian Tricolour at Mt Rhenok in Sikkim to mark the 125th birth anniversary of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose as well as 75 years of India’s independence. Amid the Covid-19 pandemic, he has rescued 125 mountaineers from Sikkim Himalayas. Some of his other notable achievements include inverted parachute formation at India Gate, performing yoga at Mt Elbrus (18,600 feet) in Europe, training 250 youths from Darjeeling to form a disaster response team and organising record-breaking yoga sessions at HMI, Darjeeling. A five-member committee submits their recommendations to the Union minister of youth affairs and sports for the approval of the awardees. The other awardees are Col Amit Bisht (land adventure) and Lt Col. Servesh Dhadwal (air adventure), and civilians Priyankar Mangesh Mohite, Jay Prakash Kumar and Ms Sheetal (land adventure) and Srikaanth Viswanathan (water adventure).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-109
08-11-2021||West Bengal||East Midnapore: BJP alleges TMC hand in worker's murder||A BJP worker from Bhagabanpur of East Midnapore was allegedly killed by Trinamul-backed goons on Saturday night. The saffron camp has called for a 10-hour bandh from 6am in Bhagabanpur on Monday in protest. Trinamul has denied the charges. According to BJP leaders, party worker Chandan Maity, 35, was abducted while on his way home on Saturday night in Bhagabanpur’s Mohammadpur I, taken to the banks of a local river and thrashed. Police recovered an injured Maity and took him to Bhagabanpur block hospital and then to the Tamluk district hospital. There, doctors declared him dead. Maity’s bereaved father said he received a call around 8pm and left home. “He lay injured for a long time. Police reached the spot some three hours later, and we were informed after that. If the police reached on time, my son would have lived,” his elderly father Prabhat said. The BJP leadership has claimed Maity was being targeted by Trinamul since the Assembly polls as it was because of workers like him that Rabindranath Maity of the BJP defeated Trinamul’s Ardhendu Maity by 27,549 votes. According to a BJP statement, Maity named six men in his “dying declaration” while on his way to the hospital. The BJP’s Purulia MP and state general-secretary Jyotirmoy Singh Mahato, who visited the Maity family on Sunday, said many candlelight protests were held across Tamluk and Bhagabanpur on Sunday. Abhijit Das, chairman of Trinamul’s Contai organisational district, blamed BJP’s “factional feud” for the death. “Police will take action against the criminals,” he said. The police have started a murder case. East Midnapore district police chief Amarnath K. said Maity’s body has been sent for autopsy. Sources in the police said Maity had also been stabbed with a sharp object. According to the BJP, Maity is the 54th party worker murdered in the aftermath of the Bengal polls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-109
08-11-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal logs 723 new cases, 774 recoveries and 11 deaths||Bengal on Sunday reported 723 new Covid-19 infections, 774 recoveries and 11 deaths, resulting in a fall by 62 in its active cases to 7,967. Over the past 43 days, since Bengal snapped out of a 97-day fall in active cases or number of Covid patients under treatment, there has been a net rise of 293  active cases, from 7,674. A minister said new Covid-19 cases reported on Saturday indicated people who were infected between October 29 and November 2. Calcutta reported 205 new Covid-19 infections and two deaths on Sunday. North 24-Parganas  logged 146 new cases and four deaths. These were the only two of the state’s 23 districts with a three-digit figure of new cases found in a day. Seven districts reported a single-digit figure. Calcutta reported two deaths and North 24-Parganas four on Sunday. Calcutta, North and South 24-Parganas, Howrah, Hooghly and Nadia districts accounted for 524 or 72.48 per cent of the new infections that were detected on Sunday. Seventeen districts reported zero deaths. Bengal’s daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent during the peak of the second wave, was 2.4 per cent on Sunday. The state’s recovery rate is 98.3 per cent, while that of the nation is 98.24 per cent. The state’s mortality rate is 1.2 per cent, while that of the nation is 1.34 per cent. Bengal now has over 15.98 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was logged in March last year. The total includes over 15.71 lakh recoveries and 19,226 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-109
08-11-2021||West Bengal||Police bid to mine goodwill||Birbhum district police have launched special initiatives, ranging from healthcare to education, for the tribal population in Mohammed Bazar, especially on the site of the proposed Deocha Pachami coal mine project, in a bid to win over people. Since June this year, police have initiated six special projects for the area, sources in the administration said. These include Suraksha (health and eye check-up), Sparsha (distributing clothes or supporting locals with other needs), Pathshala (community school by police to reduce instances of dropouts), Uran 1.0 (professional training or career to the tribal youths) and Uran 2.0 (football coaching to tribal youths and encourage sports). Police had also given musical instruments to at least 150 tribal dance troupes. These initiatives are being deemed significant as the government won’t be able to move forward with chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s pet project if it fails to win the trust of the tribal populace in the area. “The government will have to relocate hundreds of families, most of whom are tribals, to roll out the coal mine project. The government is yet to get a positive response from them over relocation. It will be interesting to see if these initiatives help,” said a senior official. “Our main target is to send a message to the people of the remote areas like Mohammedbazar that the police are their friends. After months of legwork, we are confident that we have become their friends,” said Nagendra Nath Tripathi, superintendent of police. The project is crucial to the state government as it would cut the need for regular purchase of coal from outside and save a major outgo from the state exchequer, and is likely to create 1.5 jobs, said sources. The proposed coal mine is spread over 11,222 acres with an estimated reserves of 2.2 billion tonnes. The state government has formed a nine-member committee headed by actor Parambrata Chattopadhyay involving some tribal people and representatives of organisations to engage with local residents and know their needs. Sources said the committee will hold a meeting this week before it submits its recommendations to the government. In the past four months, police had organised at least a dozen eye and health check up camps, opened three community schools and proposed to open two more. There are regular coaching classes for job seekers in tribal hamlets. The proposed coal mine is likely to spread mainly in four mouzas Deocha, Pachami, Harinsingha and Dewanganj. Police sources said large-scale initiatives and coaching classes or teaching centres had started in those areas. “We have reached out over 3,000 people with direct benefits and at least 5,000 more by extending other services. We found that there is a development gap and we are trying to bridge that,” said a senior police officer. Rabin Soren, the secretary of Birbhum Adivasi Gaonta, the organisation which represents a section of tribal people, said the government assured them that they would talk to tribal people directly before starting the coal mine project. “We will take a call once the government announces the (compensation) package,” said Soren.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-109
08-11-2021||West Bengal||Key interstate transit islet under CCTV watch||The Bhutni islet in Malda,  a crucial transit point between Bengal and the neighbouring state of Jharkhand, is being brought under the surveillance of CCTV cameras extensively by the district police to monitor movement of people from the neighbouring state. The process of installing the cameras has already been initiated and strategic locations have been identified by the police across the islet. The decision, police sources said, has been made after it has been found that in some crimes reported in the district, anti-socials from Jharkhand were involved and they had used Bhutni as their entry and exit point. A senior police officer said that on June 1, 2019, there was an attack on two employees of the state irrigation department which left one of the dead and the other seriously injured. It was found that criminals from Jharkhand were involved in the crime. Also, recently, gold jewellery and cash were looted in Englishbazar district headquarters which was also allegedly the handiwork of Jharkhand criminals. “We have reports that criminals from Jharkhand often come to Bhutni and move into other parts of Malda district to extort money from people. A number of contractors who carry out anti-erosion and other works of the state irrigation department feel scared in Bhutni and adjoining areas because of these gangs,” the officer said. That is why the police have decided to install cameras to keep a watch on the island. Boats run on a regular basis among both banks of the Ganga, with Bhutni on one side and Jharkhand on the other. Bhutni, which is surrounded by the Ganga, is around 40km from the district headquarters. Around 1.25 lakh people dwell in villages under three panchayats. Earlier, residents had to take a boat to reach other parts of the district but in November 2019, a 2.5km bridge was built for them. “The bridge came as a boon for the residents of Bhutni but the crime rates started increasing in Malda district as miscreants from Jharkhand exploited the advantage of getting into different parts of the district by crossing the Ganga through boats and then crossing the bridge in vehicles,” said a police source. Taking note of the issue, the state upgraded the police outpost at Bhutni into a full-fledged police station. However, police officials now believe that additional surveillance is necessary in the islet to prevent crimes in the district. “Bhutni is a crucial point in terms of law and order. Hence it has been resolved to wrap the entire islet with CCTV cameras. Cameras have already been installed in four locations and soon those will come up in some other places. We have readied CCTV monitoring kiosks in some places of the island,” said Alok Rajoria, SP, Malda. Along with Bhutni, the district police have installed around 200 night vision CCTV cameras across Malda district, especially in areas which are close to Jharkhand, Bihar and Bangladesh, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-109
08-11-2021||West Bengal||Export items gutted near  Petrapole international land port||At least eight export-bound trailers carrying a large consignment of cotton bales, synthetic yarn and textile material, worth around Rs 20 crore, were gutted at a private parking lot near the Petrapole international land port in Bongaon late on Saturday night when the vehicles caught fire in mysterious circumstances. Four fire tenders from Bongaon and Habra managed to douse the blaze after over seven hours during the early hours of Sunday morning. The gutted trailers and other vehicles loaded with items to be exported to Bangladesh were detained at the parking lot for 36 days because of heavy congestion at the export channel through the Petrapole land port. Exporters and clearing agents claimed that at present around 8,000 export bound trailers and trucks were waiting at various parking lots in Bongaon. Petrapole police have started a probe following a report submitted by the fire department. The police and fire officials failed to ascertain the exact cause behind the fire. However, they did not rule out a possibility of conspiracy as well. “There was no visible source of fire. We are trying to find out the reason behind it and also examining the conspiracy angle”, said a police officer. The private parking area — Laxmi parking located around 1.4 km from Petrapole port — is managed by Bongaon Municipality. The facility has no security guard to monitor access of outsiders. The incident has sparked anger among the exporters who have demanded that the Centre should ensure safe parking of the export bound vehicles during the detention period, develop required infrastructure inside the port, set up sophisticated fire station,ensure time bound export and grant permission to Benapole port based Bangladesh fire fighting personnel to enter Indian territory with their sophisticated equipment in case of a big fire. “The demand is genuine as in the past such help was sought from Bangladesh. We will appeal to the state government to develop a fire fighting set up”, Bongaon’s administrator Gopal Seth said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-109
08-11-2021||West Bengal|| West Burdwan sand smuggling ‘kingpin’ in police dragnet||The Enforcement Branch (EB) of Asansol-Durgapur police commissionerate arrested Parvej Alam Siddiqui, an alleged kingpin of the sand smuggling racket in West Burdwan district, from Bihar’s Muzaffarpur on Saturday night. Police said Parvej was absconding since August after they launched a crackdown against sand smuggling in the district following instruction from Nabanna. Earlier, the EB had arrested two other alleged sand smugglers, Sujoy Pal and Chinmay Mandal. Sources said the arrested trio have several businesses like hotels and real estate projects in Durgapur town. They were masterminding organised sand smuggling rackets in West Burdwan and adjoining Birbhum and Bankura districts located along the Damodar and Ajay rivers. The trio were allegedly forcing the sand dealers to purchase coupons (popularly known as pad) against a payment of Rs 4,000 and Rs 3,000 per truck for ensuring smooth transportation of illegally mined sand. “During the transportation of smuggled sand, the truck drivers furnish these coupons to the police whenever they were stopped for checking documents,” said a source. The sources added that the trio used to maintain a liaison with the police and the ruling party men for smooth running of the business. The police in all districts from where sand smuggling was reported have been carrying out vigorous raids leading to a pause in the crime. The move comes after the additional director general of police (law and order) had sent an instruction in August asking all district police chiefs and police commissioners to carry out daily raids against illegal mining, storage and transportation of sand, stone-chips and coal. Parvej has been remanded to 14 days custody of the EB.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-109
