09-11-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee accuses Governor of creating rift between Speaker, his Deputy||Targeting West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar without naming him, Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee said on Tuesday nobody should try to create a rift between the Speaker and the Deputy Speaker, calling such an attempt "unacceptable and unfair". Her comments came in the backdrop of the recent controversy over Dhankhar asking Deputy Speaker Ashis Banerjee, instead of Speaker Biman Banerjee, to administer the oath to the four newly elected TMC MLAs. Banerjee said that everybody should respect the Speaker's chair and not undermine it. "I don't want to name anyone but no one should try to demean the Speaker's chair. The Speaker's chair is the biggest constitutional post in the assembly. If someone tries to create a rift between the Speaker and Deputy Speaker, then it is unacceptable and unfair," she told the state assembly. After Dhankhar authorised the Deputy Speaker, Parliamentary affairs minister Partha Chatterjee wrote to the governor requesting him to allow Speaker Biman Banerjee to administer the oath. Dhankhar agreed and Biman Banerjee administered the oath to Subrata Mandal, Braj Kishore Goswami, Udayan Guha and state minister Sobhandeb Chattopadhyay on Tuesday. "The attitude that I alone will do everything and others will sit idle is not right. We need to change this attitude," the TMC supremo said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-107
09-11-2021||West Bengal|| Mamata takes charge of finance, retains Amit Mitra as adviser||Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee has a new adviser in the former state finance minister Dr Amit Mitra, who was appointed as the principal chief adviser to the CM and the state finance department. Mitra, who will get benefits and emoluments equivalent to a cabinet rank minister, will not only advise Mamata who will handle the state finance department herself, but also represent the state government in key meetings. “There is no doubt there is a dearth of talent when it comes to managing finance in the government and the party. That is why Mamata di could not let go of Amit da,” said a Trinamul source. In her third term, Mamata now has three advisers. The other two are former state chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay and another adviser in the agriculture department. The decision on Mitra was taken in a cabinet meeting held at the state Assembly on Tuesday. While Mitra’s retention happened on predictable lines, Mamata reorganised departments that were earlier held by Subrata Mukherjee, who passed away last week, and the ailing Sadhan Pande. Both departments held by Pande—consumer affairs and self-help group--- were being handled by the late Mukherjee, who was heading the panchayat department. “Didi told the ministers (after the reshuffle) that she has taken these decisions for now. After December she will take a relook and decide afresh,” said a minister. Pulak Roy, the state public health engineering minister, has succeeded the late Subrata Mukherjee in the panchayat department, while the water resources department minister Manas Ranjan Bhunia gets additional responsibility of the consumer affairs department. Pande’s self-help group department has been added to the kitty of the women and child development minister Shashi Panja, while Chandrima Bhattacharya will be Mamata’s junior in the finance department. In addition, Mamata has appointed the minister of state (independent charge) for labour Becharam Manna as junior minister in the panchayat department. The department already had a junior minister in Siuli Saha. The panchayat department has representatives from Howrah (Rural), Hooghly and Pashchimanchal, where the Trinamul had performed badly in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. The results in the Assembly polls were, however,  overwhelmingly in favour of the Trinamul and neither of the ministers showered with largesse had any major role to play. The only other factor is that all these leaders in the party are known for their proximity to Abhishek Banerjee, Mamata’s heir apparent and Trinamul’s all-India general secretary. Bhunia had switched over to the Trinamul from the Congress holding Abhishek’s hand. In the first term of the Mamata Banerjee-led government, the late Subrata Mukherjee was minister in charge of both the panchayat and public health engineering department. With the reallocation, the two departments are once again to be led by one minister. Bhunia’s water resources department office is in the same building where the consumers affairs department is located. The minister of state for forests, Birbaha Hansda, will also be the junior minister in the consumer affairs department.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-107
09-11-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee picks Amit Mitra as her Chief Principal Adviser||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee in a major cabinet rejig has appointed Amit Mitra who was holding the finance portfoilio, as her Principal Chief Advisor and also to the Finance Department. He will enjoy the status of a Cabinet Minister.  This is a breaking news story, more details will be added soon. Please keep refreshing this page for the latest version||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-107
09-11-2021||West Bengal||BJP takes out rally demanding TMC govt to reduce tax on petrol and diesel||The Bengal BJP unit on Tuesday took out a rally in the Maniktala area of North Calcutta demanding that the Mamata Banerjee government reduce the VAT it charges on petrol and diesel, in line with the Centre's move to cut excise duty on petroleum products. Leading the rally BJP state president Sukanta Majumder told reporters the agitation will be intensified in the coming days. "BJP workers all over the state will take out rallies in the coming days. The protests will assume such a proportion that the voice of the people will reach the chief minister's office on the 14th floor of state secretariat Nabanna. The protests will force her to listen to the just demand of people and match the Narendra Modi government's decision to cut excise duty on petrol and diesel... ," he said. Activists of the BJP had clashed with the police here on Monday after they were stopped from taking out a rally demanding a slash in taxes levied by the state on fuel prices. The party will take out rallies across the state till November 13 to demand that the TMC government reduce the VAT it charges on petrol and diesel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-107
09-11-2021||West Bengal||Three held in connection with death threat to ex-Bengal bureaucrat Alapan Bandyopadhyay||Kolkata police sleuths have arrested three persons, including a doctor, for their alleged involvement in sending a death threat to former West Bengal chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay, a senior officer said on Tuesday. Bandyopadhyay had recently received a death threat through a letter sent to his wife. Acting on a tip-off, a typist was arrested on Monday from Ballygunge area, who had admitted that he had written the letter using a typewriter, the officer said. After getting information from him, Kolkata police sleuths arrested the doctor, who works in a city-based medical college, from Raja Rammohan Sarani and his driver from Manicktala area,he said. "The doctor had sent his driver with a draft of the letter to the typist. He has written such letters to several people. It seems that he has a mental disorder. We are probing into the matter," the officer said. Bandyopadhyay, who retired in May, is at present the chief advisor to chief minister Mamata Banerjee. His wife Sonali Chakrabarty, vice-chancellor of Calcutta University, had received the typed letter. "Madam, your husband will be killed. No body can save the life of your husband," read the letter, dated October 22, a police officer had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-107
09-11-2021||West Bengal||Panchayat official requests farmer not to burn paddy stubble||A panchayat official requests a farmer not to burn paddy stubble in East Burdwan's Baikanthapur on Monday. Paddy stubble usually takes one-and-a-half months to decompose and farmers are not ready to wait that long. Burning paddy stubble is considered to be a fast and cheap way to prepare fields for the next crop. However, studies have shown that this burning pollutes the air and is considered a major health hazard. Still, stubble burning is not that rampant in Bengal as it is in the country’s northern states.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-107
09-11-2021||West Bengal||CRPF trooper from Nadia among fratricide victims||CRPF constable Rajib Mondal, 32, of Nadia’s Debagram had cut short his vacation last month to resume duty in Chhattisgarh’s Sukma, promising his wife Sulekha to return home to celebrate New Year with her and their two daughters. Rajib’s promise to his wife stayed unfulfilled. The young jawan, along with three other CRPF personnel, was killed when one of his colleagues opened indiscriminate fire at him from his service rifle (AK-47) at a camp of the paramilitary force in Lingalapalli village in Sukma around 3am on Monday. The constable attached to the 50-Battalion of the CRPF died on the spot as bullets pumped by accused jawan Ritesh Ranjan pierced his chest and abdomen before he could resist his colleague. Rajib and his three other colleagues were rushed to Government Area Hospital at Bhadrachalam in adjacent Telangana. Doctors declared all of them dead. On Sunday evening Rajib, the son of a farmer, had made a call to his wife Sulekha, where they had again spoken his plan to visit home in the last week of December to celebrate New Year’s Day. “He returned to Sukma on October 8 to resume duty. But he promised us to visit home to celebrate New Year with our children. He will never return,” said an inconsolable Sulekha as she held on to her two daughters aged 5 and 3, respectively. Youngest among the three siblings, Rajib had joined the CRPF in 2010 after passing the higher secondary examination. He joined the CRPF to overcome the financial crisis and the job gradually began to change the condition of the family. “Before Rajib joined the CRPF, we were struggling for survival. With Rajib’s support, the financial condition of the family had been improving a lot,” said Mujibur Mondal, a farmer and father of the deceased jawan. He added he did not know what the future held for his family with Rajib no more. A pall of gloom enveloped Debagram’s Jompukur village after a CRPF officer broke the news to family members of Rajib around 6am on Monday. “The official initially told us that Rajib was injured in an explosion, but later we came to know from TV news that he had been killed when one of his colleagues had fired at them,” said Rajib’s elder brother. Trinamul’s youth wing’s Kaliganj block president Kajal Seikh said: “It is unbelievable that Rajib is no more. He was a good friend and neighbour.” Rajib’s body is expected to arrive at his village on Tuesday afternoon, an official of the Nadia district administration said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-107
09-11-2021||West Bengal||Indian Railways to set up coach factory on Bengal-Assam border||The Indian Railways has decided to set up a rail coach factory on the Bengal-Assam border at a location that falls under the Alipurduar division of the Northeast Frontier Railway(NFR), a senior railway official said here on Monday. This would be the first-of-its-kind factory in east and northeast India and is expected to generate considerable employment for residents of north Bengal and the neighbouring state of Assam. “The factory is likely to be set up at a location which is in Assam but is closer to the divisional headquarters of Alipurduar (which is in Bengal). We have started gathering details about stretches of land in the region and would soon start surveying the sites,” said Dilip Kumar Singh, the divisional railway manager (DRM) of Alipurduar division. Sources in the NFR said the factory was likely to come up somewhere in Kokrajhar, a district in Assam that shares borders with Bengal. Also, Kokrajhar is one of the four districts of the neighbouring state which are under the Bodoland Territorial Council. The railway officials have already earmarked a plot in Srirampur, a locality close to the interstate border. “We need to have the factory at a site that is also close to the principal rail track which connects Guwahati and northeast with New Alipurduar and the rest of the country. Experts are drawing layouts and making estimates as there is a plan to build a factory that can manufacture at least 1,000 LHB coaches in a year,” said a railway official. As of now, the railways have the rail coach factory in Kapurthala of Punjab, the modern coach factory at Raebareli of Uttar Pradesh, and the integral coach factory in Chennai of Tamil Nadu. The project, railway sources said, is a part of the rail ministry’s ambitious target to start 100 per cent indigenous manufacturing of rail coaches by 2022. The decision to set up the factory has evoked a mixed response among residents of Alipurduar and north Bengal as a whole. “It will generate huge employment in direct and indirect manner as the site will eventually develop into a township. Schools, hospitals, market complexes and some other facilities will come up at the site, as it is there in Kapurthala or Raebareli. Such a major industrial infrastructure can largely help in improving the economy of this region,” pointed Prasenjit Dey, general secretary, Alipurduar Merchant Chamber of Commerce. Some others however, prefer to wait, at least till commencement of the construction work and mentioned that around 11 years back, the then railway minister Mamata Banerjee had laid the foundation stone of a rail coach axle factory in New Jalpaiguri. “There were similar hopes for employment as it was supposed to be the first such major investment by railways in north Bengal. However, the project has got delayed for more than a decade now,” said Pradip Dutta, a retired railway employee based in Alipurduar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-107
09-11-2021||West Bengal||Three teenagers arrested for gang-rape near Santiniketan||A tribal girl, who is a minor, was sleeping on Sunday night when she dragged to an abandoned house and allegedly raped by three youths at a village near Santiniketan. The 14-year-old victim and her mother went to the police on Monday morning and accused three local youths. Police arrested all three youths on Monday. “The girl was taken to a hospital for medical tests and we have arrested all the three accused on charges of rape,” said Nagendra Nath Tripathi, the Birbhum police chief. “They took me inside an empty house near our village and raped me. I somehow managed to flee. I want severe punishment for them,” the girl said. The police said the three accused were also teenagers and were booked under several sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act. However, the exact ages of the accused are yet to be verified. “We will produce them in court tomorrow (Tuesday),” said a police officer in Santiniketan. The girl’s mother said they were both sleeping on the verandah of their mud house when she woke up to the voices of the youths. “By the time I could alert anyone, they had dragged away my daughter,” said the sobbing woman.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-107
09-11-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee and BJP spar on fuel prices||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee lashed out at the BJP-led Centre on Monday, holding it responsible for prices skyrocketing on account of galloping fuel prices, on a day the BJP’s Bengal unit hit the streets demanding her government slash taxes levied by it on petrol and diesel. “The problem is that the prices of petrol, diesel and gas (LPG) have been rising at such a rate… people’s funds are being restricted…. Transactions in the banking sector have gone down. They (the Centre) are closing down (privatising) everything from railways to SAIL to coal. A large number of people will become unemployed,” said Mamata at a state government event in New Town. “The central government has earned revenue of Rs 4 lakh crore from petrol, diesel and gas… If diesel isn’t there, prices of commodities will shoot up automatically. How will farmers work? They use diesel for agriculture,” she added. She indicated the Centre is giving extra funds to BJP-ruled states which, therefore, can afford to lower taxes they collect on petrol and diesel. “They (the Centre)… are giving thousands of crores to the states where they (BJP) are in power. But they don’t give us. They don’t even give us vaccines, forget money…. We also give a concession of a rupee (per litre) on diesel. Where will I get it (the money) from? Still I do (what I can),” she said, adding Bengal has the highest number of welfare schemes in the country. Mamata’s remarks came in the wake of the BJP’s bid to politicise the issue of the Bengal government not allowing further tax cuts on fuel. Last Wednesday, the Centre announced an excise duty cut on petrol and diesel by Rs 5 and Rs 10 a litre. Bengal collects 25 per cent tax on petrol and 17 per cent on diesel. Earlier on Monday, Bengal BJP leaders held a protest rally outside their party headquarters at 6 Muralidhar Sen Lane. The rally, stopped by the police even before it started, was to demand tax cuts on petrol and diesel by the state government. Bengal BJP  chief Sukanta Majumdar, his immediate predecessor and Midnapore MP Dilip Ghosh and Nandigram MLA and leader of Opposition Suvendu Adhikari were all present. BJP workers burnt Mamata’s effigy after the police stopped them from allowing the rally to proceed. “We will force the state government to reduce the taxes they collect on fuel…. The Yogiji (Adityanath) government in Uttar Pradesh has declared the highest cuts. Why can’t Mamata Banerjee follow him?” Majumdar told journalists. “Tomorrow (Tuesday), our workers will carry out an awareness campaign in petrol pumps in the city. They won’t disturb work at the pumps, but will inform people how the Centre has reduced excise duties on petrol and diesel and yet this state has not done what it should,” he said, adding that their protests on this issue would continue in over the next few weeks, barring festive days. He said the BJP would hit the streets, demanding reduction of power tariff in Bengal. Suvendu, the leader of the Opposition in the Assembly, led a group of BJP MLAs to a demonstration in front of the Assembly. BJP appeal A BJP delegation led by Majumdar met the state election commission and asked it to declare the date of polls to all civic bodies in the state simultaneously and assigning a single date for publication of results. This happened after it was reported that the state poll panel was preparing to announce polls to only the Calcutta and Howrah civic corporations next month. “We will move court, if need be, over this,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-107
09-11-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal logs 603 new cases, 657 recoveries and 14 deaths||Bengal on Monday reported 603 new Covid-19 infections, 657 recoveries and 14 deaths, resulting in a fall by 68 in its total of active cases to 7,899. Over the past 44 days — since Bengal snapped out of a 97-day streak of constant fall in the total of active cases ahead of the Puja season on September 26 — the state recorded a rise in its total of active cases for 24 days and a fall for 19 days. In these 44 days — considered the core of the long autumnal festive spell, including not only the Durga Puja days but also the preceding and succeeding weeks — there has been a net rise of 225 in the state’s total of active cases, from 7,674. A minister said the number of new infections being reported on Monday is indicative of people that got infected in the October 30 (10 days after Lakshmi Puja) to November 3 (the day before Kali Puja) window. The state’s recovery rate is 98.3 per cent, while that of the nation is 98.24. Calcutta reported 149 new infections and North 24-Parganas reported 138. , the only two of the state’s 23 districts with a three-digit figure of new cases found. Eleven districts reported a single-digit figure. Calcutta, North and South 24-Parganas, Howrah, Hooghly and Nadia accounted for 450 – 74.62 per cent – of the new infections detected on Monday. The daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 2.51 per cent on Monday. Sixteen Bengal districts reported zero deaths. Calcutta reported three, while North 24-Parganas reported four. The state’s mortality rate is 1.2, while that of the nation is 1.34 per cent. Bengal now has over 15.99 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was logged in March last year. The total includes nearly 15.72 lakh recoveries and 19,240 casualties.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-108
09-11-2021||West Bengal||CPM worker beaten to death in Birbhum, finger at Trinamul||An elderly CPM worker was beaten to death and another severely injured allegedly by a group of Trinamul workers at Baiguni village of Birbhum’s Nanoor on Monday morning. The family members of the victims alleged that the goons did not allow them to take the injured  to hospital for hours and the delay led to the death of one, Badal Sheikh, 68. Sheikh was declared brought dead at Bolpur sub-divisional hospital. Nishapati Thandar, 65, was admitted with multiple injuries in a critical condition. “Our elderly party workers had hoisted the party flag in the village on the occasion of the November Revolution on Sunday. This angered the Trinamul and their party workers beat the duo on Monday leading to the death of  Sheikh. We will hold a protest at every police station of the district against such brutality,” said Goutam Ghosh, CPM’s state committee member and Bolpur leader. Family members of the two CPM workers said around 10am on Monday, the two CPM workers had gone to Baiguni bus stop, where Trinamul workers assaulted them with sticks. “For a few hours they did not allow us to take my husband to the hospital. Police intervened and took my husband to the hospital. He was killed as he was a CPM worker,” said Jarina Biwi, wife of Sheikh. Trinamul, however, denied the allegation and said the party had no connection with the murder. “Trinamul had no reason to beat CPM workers. It could be a personal issue and Trinamul had no connection with it,” said Birbhum district party chief Anubrata Mondal. Birbhum police chief Nagendra Nath Tripathi said police had started a case of culpable homicide. Farm leader no more The CPM’s Birbhum district secretary and farm movement leader Manasa Hansda, 64, died at his home in Dhanyasara village of Birbhum’s Bolpur on Sunday midnight. He had skin cancer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-108
09-11-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee govt enhances special allowance of IAS ||The Mamata Banerjee government on Monday enhanced special allowance of IAS officers at various levels leaving many WBCS officers disappointed as they claimed it would create a rift among the officers working in the districts. According to a notification issued by the department of personnel and administrative reforms on Monday, IAS officers posted as subdivisional officers would get a special allowance of Rs 2,000 a month. Officers posted as the additional district magistrates would get Rs 2,500 and officers posted as the district magistrates Rs 3,000 every month as additional allowance. Besides, IAS officers posted as directors or commissioners would also get a sum of Rs 3,000 as additional allowance. IAS officers in the rank of secretary, additional chief secretary and the chief secretary would get additional allowance of Rs 4,000, Rs 5,000 and Rs 6,000 a month, respectively. Till now, all officers — be it from the IAS or WBCS cadres — posted as DMs used to receive an additional allowance of Rs 1,500 a month and all other officers an additional allowance of Rs 1,000 a month. “Now, it can be said that the government has given a considerable benefit to the 300-odd IAS officers in the state. It would have been appropriate if the state government gave the same benefit to 1,500 WBCS officers as they also work hard,” said a bureaucrat. The official explained why the WBCS officers were agitated over the issue. “As the government enhanced the allowance for the IAS officers, the WBCS officers are feeling deprived,” explained the official. Another official said the difference in money could create trouble in carrying out the development and welfare schemes in districts as both WBCS and IAS officers work as SDOs, ADMs and DMs. “These are the officers who carry out the schemes at the grassroots level. If they WBCS officers feel left out, it would not benefit the administration at all,” said a source. "Already WBCS officers get less salary compared to the IAS officers… IAS officers get higher dearness allowance. This particular decision would widen the gap. The WBCS officers may feel deprived, which is not desirable,” said another official. Some government officials said the government had already given some benefits to WBCS officers at the senior level (joint secretary onwards) via two additional increments. But a WBCS officer pointed out the benefit did not reach to  state civil service officers  in the districts (in posts of SDOs, ADMs and DMs). “It is not only about a financial benefit but also self-respect,” said a visibly annoyed WBCS officer. Conclave and events Bengal chief secretary H.K. Dwivedi on Monday announced the Bengal Goobal Business Summit would be held on April 20 and 21, 2022. The business summit could not be held for two years because of the pandemic. The state government has also decided to hold the Calcutta Film Festival between January 7 and 14 next year. The Calcutta Book Fair will be inaugurated on January 31, 2022.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-108
09-11-2021||West Bengal||Bengal govt comes to aid of Amit Shah’s host in Bankura||A team of state government officials headed by block development officer of Bankura-I on Monday morning visited Bibhishan Hansda, the tribal villager who had hosted a lunch for Union home minister Amit Shah last November, to provide the poor farmer with medicines and insulin for his teenage diabetic daughter. The state government’s move came after Hansda, 48, of Chaturdihi village on Saturday accused the BJP of reneging on its promise to help him treat his diabetic daughter, Rachana, with free medicines. He alleged that he had got no help since the past four months and accused the BJP leaders of cooling off after the party’s Assembly poll debacle. The Telegraph had published a report on Hansda’s plight on Sunday. Here, local BJP leaders had denied the charges of neglect and said the girl would be taken to AIIMS Delhi as soon as the Covid situation improved. “The girl (Rachana) has diabetes and needs insulin worth Rs 5,000 a month. We have given medicines for her for two months and the family has been asked to inform local health staff about their needs,” said Anjan Choudhury, the BDO of Bankura-I block, on Monday. “I am really happy that government officials provided medicine and insulin for my daughter. It was really helpful. It’s very hard for me to afford Rs 5,000 a month for treatment of my daughter. The officials said that they would continue the support,” said Hansda, who said he earned only Rs 10,000 a month at best. Shah had visited Bankura last year and eaten at Hansda’s home as part of the saffron party’s tribal outreach before the Assembly polls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-108
09-11-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Global Business Summit on April 20 and 21 next year: Dwivedi||The next edition of the Bengal Global Business Summit (BGBS) will be held on April 20 and 21 next year, state chief secretary H.K. Dwivedi announced on Monday evening at a festive season get-together after chief minister Mamata Banerjee asked him to formally declare  the dates for the business conclave. “We could not hold the business summit for two years because of Covid.… But we are going to hold it soon on a much bigger scale and I would request the chief secretary to announce the dates,” Mamata said at the get-together attended by industrialists and representatives of the diplomatic corps in Calcutta. Dwivedi announced the dates for the business conclave that the state government wants to organise on a big scale with participation of representatives from across the globe, especially the developed world, as part of its plan to attract investments in Bengal. That the state government is looking for international participation became clear during the chief minister’s address when she sought governor Jagdeep Dhankhar’s support to make the next edition of the BGBS a success.“To make the event successful, we have to do a lot of preparations, for which the officials have to go abroad to approach the countries for participation and investments.… If you can go to one country, we will be grateful. Earlier we had visited countries like Italy, Germany, the UK and the Netherlands.… I have to go somewhere, and if you can also go somewhere, it will be very helpful,” Mamata said, with Dhankhar sitting next to her. The chief minister’s request to Dhankhar assumes significance against the backdrop of a taut relationship between Nabanna and Raj Bhavan since his appointment as the governor in July 2019. While Dhankhar has been a fierce critic of the state government and most of its initiatives, scores of Trinamul leaders had called him a BJP stooge. Giving a clear signal that he was keen to bury the past bitterness, Dhankhar promised his best efforts for the conclave. “Everyone,  including the first citizen, which I am, should come forward to make the BGBS a success. I can assure you all, particularly the chief minister, I will leave nothing undone.… This will give me an occasion and opportunity to serve the people of Bengal to the best of my ability,” the governor said. “We have to believe in oneness of each other.… We have to ensure there is no room for conflict, there is no room for adversarial situations. There is only one way, togetherness,” Dhankhar added, signalling his intent in scripting a new chapter in the Nabanna-Raj Bhavan relationship. Sources in Trinamul said that the chief minister’s request to Dhankhar to visit a country to ensure its participation in the BGBS is a smart move in view of her recent experience while seeking the Centre’s nod for visits abroad. “The Centre didn’t allow her to visit Italy to attend a global peace conference in October.… Earlier, they didn’t allow her to visit China. It’s a smart move on her part to take the governor on board while planning trips abroad for the BGBS,” said a source. The Bengal government has already begun planning for next year’s BGBS as the task force under the state industrial promotion board has been constituted. “The task force is expected to lay the groundwork to make the BGBS a success,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-108
09-11-2021||West Bengal||Gorkha Janmukti Morcha to meet on political solution||The issue of finding a permanent political solution (PPS) for the Darjeeling region is gaining steam with the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha deciding to convene a seminar with various stakeholders in Darjeeling on November 20 to firm up their proposal before the state government. Both the BJP and Trinamul, heading the central and state governments, respectively, have separately promised a PPS for the region. However, the contours of the much-used term have not been clarified. On their latest move, Roshan Giri, the general secretary of the Bimal Gurung-led Gorkha Janmukti Morcha, said: “We have decided to organise a seminar with stakeholders to seek feedback from various quarters on the permanent political solution.” Earlier, Giri had talked about a provision under Article 244 (A) of the Constitution. This article was inserted in the Constitution in 1969 for formation “of an autonomous state comprising certain tribal areas in Assam” with provision for creating local legislature or council of minister or both thereof. The list of participants for the Morcha seminar to be held at Gorkha Dukha Niwarak Sammelan (GDNS) hall in Darjeeling will be finalised by the party on Wednesday. Gurung and Anit Thapa, though bitter rivals in hill politics, are with Trinamul. Thapa heads the recently formed Bharatiya Gorkha Prajatantrik Morcha, parting ways with Binay Tamang. Tamang, who is yet to start the “third chapter of his political life”, is also Trinamul’s ally. Thapa, too, recently formed a seven-member committee to seek opinions from various stakeholders before finalising their PPS proposal. These developments come in the wake of Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s recent visit to north Bengal. There, during an administrative meeting in Kurseong on October 26, Mamata asked both Giri and Thapa to work out a PPS proposal and hand it over to the state government. Trinamul, however, has always been against the separate state of Gorkhaland. The BJP had coined the term PPS in its 2019 Lok Sabha election manifesto. However, the party had not given a clear definition. Even now, the exact meaning of the much-used term  has not be spelt out by the saffron party. The BJP-led central government has also started working on their PPS with the Union home minister Amit Shah holding a tripartite talk with BJP legislators from the region and its hill allies in Delhi on October 12. The BJP’s hill allies such as the Communist Party of Revolutionary Marxists (CPRM) maintain that their understanding of PPS is a separate state of Gorkhaland. “The BJP, however, is keeping their cards close to their chest. The Centre is also likely to convene another round of tripartite meetings within a month or two,” said a hill observer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-108
09-11-2021||West Bengal||Rehabilitation package priority for coal mine project||The state government on Monday decided that it would first announce a rehabilitation package for those to be displaced by the proposed Deocha-Pachami coal mine project before starting any kind of activity in those areas. “Initial work for the project will start on available government land where no one needs to be displaced. But the government will announce the rehabilitation package in advance to avoid any confusion (among people staying in the other areas),” said a senior government official. On Monday, a meeting headed by chief secretary H.D. Dwivedi was held at Nabanna with members of newly formed advisory committee headed by actor Parambrata Chattopadhyay, Birbhum  DM Bidhan Ray, SP Nagendranath Tripathi and chairman of State Rural Development Authority as well as Birbhum Trinamul chief Anubrata Mondal. “It has been decided that the package will be very lucrative and banners carrying information on it will be put up in the area in Bengali and Ol-Chiki scripts to avoid any confusion among the local people. We think people will welcome the package,” said an official. The project is vital for the state government as it would cut the need for regular purchase of coal from outside and  and is likely to create 1.5 lakh jobs, said sources. The proposed coal mine is spread over 11,222 acres with  estimated reserves of 2.2 billion tonnes. According to a primary survey, around 3,000 families  could be affected because of the coal mine project. Several officials and committee members in the meeting stressed the need to announce the package “to test the ground”. As the major population is tribal, it is important to circulate the package details in their script, Ol-Chiki. Officials said the advisory committee will try to ensure no family in the area feels deprived. Parambrata, chairman of the advisory committee, said: “It was the first meeting of the committee and the government...  Committee members will come up with suggestions to the government on aspects of people in the area and environment.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-108
09-11-2021||West Bengal||Alternative classes for students at North Bengal University  ||Authorities of the North Bengal University (NBU) have planned alternative classes for post-graduate students of the varsity and also for students who are pursuing undergraduate courses in colleges affiliated to NBU. Offline classes for PG and UG courses will start from November 16 across Bengal and classes of different semesters would be held on alternative slots or days. “If the first semester students of a department take an offline class, the third-semester students will have an online class for that day. If the infrastructure of the department is adequate, then offline classes will be held in morning and evening slots,” said a source. Pranab Ghosh, the registrar, said students who have science subjects will have their practical classes in the morning and theory classes in the evening. “If first semester students take practical classes in the morning, then the third-semester students will have practical classes in evening.” According to him, colleges which are under NBU will follow the same protocol. Initially, colleges will conduct classes for first, third and fifth semesters. “As the colleges open for six days a week, there will be an extra day which students can avail,” the registrar added. Following the state’s directive, the classrooms, both at the varsity and in the college, have been sanitised. “Arrangements have been made to keep sanitisers and thermal guns in each class,” said a varsity official. Sources revealed that most of the 4,000-odd PG students and more than 9,400 students who study in nine colleges located in and around Siliguri, have received at least one dose of Covid vaccine. New course In another development, NBU is all set to introduce a new postgraduate course in women studies from this session. So far, the varsity only had a centre for this subject for research scholars but now students can get an MA degree in it. “There are 20 seats for the course and two permanent faculty members. We hope the course will gain popularity in due course,” the registrar said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-108
09-11-2021||West Bengal||Centre guidelines on ecotourism, four Bengal reserves identified||The Union ministry of environment, forest and climate change has come up with a set of guidelines to develop sustainable ecotourism in forest areas to ensure tourism  activities do not lock horns with the conservation of nature and wildlife across the country. Along with the guidelines, the ministry has also released a list of 90 sites, most of which are wildlife sanctuaries or national parks in the country, where ecotourism can be sustainably promoted. Among these are Bengal’s Gorumara National Park (Jalpaiguri), Jaldapara National Park (Alipurduar), Neora Valley National Park (Kalimpong) and Singalila National Park (Darjeeling ). In Bengal, tourism activities exist in Gorumara and Jaldapara and in some areas of Neora Valley and Singalila. The ministry has underscored that state forest departments can draw up comprehensive ecotourism development plans for these sites in association with panchayats. “Guidelines have been drawn up to create avenues for local communities who live in these areas or on the fringes so that they can earn while keeping in mind the ecology of the site,” said a source in the ministry. “Priority should be given to local communities, their skills and encourage their startups in ecotourism through financial support and benefits from government schemes,” a forest official said. The plan also puts impetus on using information technology to promote ecotourism through virtual tours. IT can also be used to collect and collate data of stakeholders associated with ecotourism to help draw up future plans, a forester said. “The new guidelines can check indiscriminate mushrooming of accommodations. In Gorumara and Jaldapara, it is necessary to focus on waste management, treatment and disposal of sewage. Pollution caused by plastic and noise are issues that need attention to protect nature and wildlife,” said Raj Basu, a veteran in the north Bengal tourism industry.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-108
