10-11-2021||West Bengal||Trouble brewing in Bengal BJP in run up to civic polls||The disarray in the Bengal BJP  came out in the open once again on Wednesday and ended with the expulsion of the party’s Howrah Sadar district president Surajit Saha, the fissures getting exposed a little over a month before civic polls to the Howrah and Calcutta Municipal Corporations are likely to be held. The state election commission and the Bengal government have agreed on holding the polls to both the civic bodies on December 19. An official communique in the matter is still pending. Though the state BJP has knocked the doors of the Calcutta High Court seeking polling at all the 118 municipalities and seven municipal corporations in the state, preparations for the elections are underway. Saha’s anger was directed at the leader of Opposition Suvendu Adhikary who had on Tuesday during an internal meeting accused a section of the BJP in Howrah of being in cahoots with the Trinamul minister from Howrah, Arup Roy. The feud below up  after a committee was set up under former mayor Rathin Chakraborty for the civic polls, which upset the Saha faction. When Suvendu made the remark, many of the senior state leaders were present and none of them charged at the leader of Opposition, who is still seen as an outsider by most of the BJP cadre in Bengal. The BJP which had attracted a large number of Trinamul faces including ministers and legislators like Rajib Banerjee and Vaishali Dalmia before the polls, ended up with a severe drubbing. Rajib has already returned to the Trinamul fold. Saha, claimed on Wednesday, Suvendu’s leaving the BJP was also a matter of time. “See I have been with the BJP for 28 years. Neither me nor any other BJP leader from Howrah was not caught on TV camera accepting bribe. First Suvendu should prove his honesty before raising fingers at others,” said Saha. Suvendu’s name was involved in the Narada bribery case, where television footage of a person  resembling him was caught on camera accepting bribe from journalist Mathew Samuels, who had conducted the sting operation in 2014. While two Trinamul ministers including Subrata Mukherjee, who passed away last week, an MLA and a former Calcutta mayor were arrested in connection with the case in May, soon after the Assembly poll results, the central probe agency CBI did not take any action against Suvendu. Following his win in the Assembly election from Nandigram where he defeated the chief minister Mamata Banerjee, Suvendu’s stocks have been running high in the party. He was made the leader of Opposition, which was guaranteed to rankle Mamata. “We have not hopped from one party to another. He has been with the Congress, the Trinamul and now the BJP. If he says, Howrah BJP leaders are working in connivance with Arup Roy, he should provide evidence for that instead of making accusations,” said Saha. He said the people of Bengal had rejected the BJP as it had turned into a B-team of the Trinamul. “Candidates for the Assembly polls (in the 16 Assembly seats in Howrah) were decided by Suvendu and Rajib. If the party’s central and state leaders have not learned the lesson even after the Assembly polls debacle, they will be rejected again (by the people),” said Saha. Calling the committee led by Chakraborty as the B-team of the Trinamul, Saha said he would not work with them whatever be the consequences. “The decision was taken by the party and has to be observed by all. Ours is a disciplined party,” said Dilip Ghosh, former state president of the BJP. Suvendu was not available for comment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-105
10-11-2021||West Bengal||  Inspection of bridges in north||The state PWD will engage experts to conduct a survey to assess the “health” of 11 bridges located in north Bengal, mostly on NH31, the principal highway that connects the region with the rest of the country. Sources in the department said around four months back, a proposal to conduct the survey was sent to the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) that functions under the Union ministry of road transport and highways. Recently, the state PWD received an approval from the NHAI and has floated tenders, seeking applications from fir¬ms which are expert in maki¬ng such assessment of bridges. “It will be an extensive survey and some of the vital road bridges of this region have been selected. We want to find out the overall conditions of these installations. The appro¬val has reached us and |we have recently completed the tender process for the |task. Also, the damage caused to the Balason river bridge has further underscored the need for such a survey,” said an |official of the NH9 division of the state PWD. Among the bridges which will be examined, include |the 70yearold Coronation Bridge at Sevoke, the bridge over Mahananda river on |the northern end of Siliguri (a few kilometres ahead of |the Balason bridge) and bridges over Leesh, Ghish |and Chel, the major rivers which flow through western Dooars. All these are along NH31.  “Also, the Panchnoi bridge that connects Siliguri with Darjeeling along NH55 |(located on the northern end |of Siliguri) has been included in the list,” the official |added. A senior engineer of the de¬partment said: “During the survey, present condition of the concrete structure, the soil, density of the river water and its flowing trend and in¬tensity of vehicular movement are some of the basic elements which the experts will in¬spect.” Though the proposal was sent four months back, senior officials of the state PWD |had emphasised on the need for such a survey after a |torrential downpour on the third week of October in¬creased water levels of rivers and triggered landslides. The swollen Balason river impacted the bridge also locat¬ed on NH31 and along the prin¬cipal entry point to Siliguri. One of its pillars got tilted and a portion of the plank sub¬sided, causing a halt in traffic movement for around 20 days now. “In the hills, landslides have occurred in many places which are closer to bridges and culverts. It is also neces¬sary to examine these bridges to avert any accident in fu¬ture,” said an official of the state PWD. Toytrains cancelled Authorities of the Darjeeling Himalayan Railway have cancelled the regular toy train service between New Jalpaiguri and Darjeeling from Monday (November 8) to November 15. Railway sources said the decision has been made becau¬se of a cavein on NH55 betwe¬en Gayabari and Mahanadi st¬ations.  “A major portion of the hi¬ghway has caved in. Unless the road is repaired, it is risky to run toy trains through this stretch.” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-105
10-11-2021||West Bengal||Didi, BJP exchange war of words over House conduct||Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday accused the BJP of disregard for the Bengal Assembly at seeing  vacant Opposition benches during her address in the House, while the saffron camp accused her government of flouting norms of the legislature to stifle the Opposition. Referring to the  Opposition’s “awhongkar (arrogance)”, she said: “We are the only political party to deliver on the promises made in our election manifesto. Others say “Achhey din ayengey toh burey din ajatey hain (Good days will arrive but bad days arrive instead). Those who should’ve been here to listen to this are not here. Why they aren’t here, I do not know.” This was said in the Assembly shortly after Trinamul MLAs Udayan Guha of Dinhata, Subrata Mondal of Gosaba, Braja Kishor Goswami of Santipur and Sobhandeb Chattopadhyay of Khardah , elected to the House in the by-polls of October 30, took oath. “Four new MLAs got elected to the House. The convention of democracy is that even the defeated (party) should come forward to congratulate the victors. But why they are absent, only they can say,” said the Trinamul chief. The BJP objected to the conduct of the ongoing session of the Assembly, as it coincides with the post-Durga Puja phase. Its legislature party had also pointed out that the state government need not have convened the session now, simply because there is no major business for it to conduct, especially by way of bills. The BJP’s state unit chief Sukanta Majumdar, responding to Mamata’s criticism, said his party’s objections were conveyed formally. “Kali Puja, Diwali, Chhath Puja, Jagaddhatri Puja… in this season of pujas, her government went ahead with a session of the House, deliberately… only so that the Opposition is unable to participate. Our MLAs were, are and will be with the people,” he said. “Even a party like the CPM, which does not believe in religion, did not keep the House in session (in the Left Front regime) during such religious festivals.” Majumdar also brought up the absence of leader of the Opposition Suvendu Adhikari in a meeting to pick two information commissioners for the state, which was to be attended by him, Mamata and Speaker Biman Banerjee. “She gave a 12-hour notice to our leader of the Opposition to attend such a crucial meeting. These things cannot happen this way. There are specific rules and set protocols of this historic House, with a rich tradition…. At least respect that tradition,” said Majumdar, referring to Suvendu’s objection to attend the meeting as he was not given details of the applicants to the posts a week in advance. In her address, Mamata reiterated her attack against the BJP-led Centre, holding it responsible for prices skyrocketing on account of a steep rise in fuel prices, even as the BJP’s Bengal unit continued protesting in the streets, demanding that her government reduce the taxes levied by the state on petrol and diesel. Mamata’s remarks came in the wake of days of the BJP’s attempts to politicise the issue of the Bengal government not allowing further cuts in taxes on fuel. On Wednesday, the Centre announced an excise duty cut on petrol and diesel by Rs 5 and Rs 10 a litre, respectively. Bengal collects 25 per cent tax on petrol and 17 per cent on diesel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-105
10-11-2021||West Bengal||Nod for CMC, Howrah polls||The State Election Commission has given its nod to the state government’s proposal to hold polls to the Calcutta and Howrah Municipal Corporations on December 19. A letter of consent was sent to the state municipal affairs department on Tuesday, poll panel sources said. Votes will be counted on December 22. Though the commission has not yet formally notified the polls, sources said it had convened a meeting of election officials and police personnel of Calcutta and Howrah on November 12. Elections to about 200 civic bodies, including seven municipal corporations, are pending for several years. Ahead of the civic polls, the state government has decided to separate the Bally municipality from the Howrah Municipal Corporation, reversing a decision it took about six years ago. A decision regarding this was taken at a cabinet meeting held on Tuesday in the presence of chief minister Mamata Banerjee. In July 2015, Bally municipality was merged into the Howrah Corporation following delimitation that brought down the number of wards in erstwhile municipality from 35 to 16. Sources in Trinamul said the party believed the merger didn’t go down well with Bally voters, and in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls Trinamul lost in seven of 16 wards. On Friday, a bill will be brought in the state legislative Assembly to separate Bally from Howrah Corporation, a minister said. “Bally’s 16 wards will go to polls later. On December 19, only the 50 wards of Howrah Corporation will go to polls,” this minister said. The BJP moved court with a demand to hold all pending civic polls at the same time. BJP vicepresident Pratap Banerjee met lawyers at Calcutta High Court on Tuesday. “We have a onepoint agen¬da. All pending civic bodies must go to polls together. Otherwise, Trinamul will shed blood in the name of polls to wrest power in as many civic bodies as possible,” Banerjee said. “Electoral roll revision is currently on. If the polls are held in February new voters can also vote,” he added. High court sources said the BJP had appealed to the court to be included as a party to a PIL, which has been filed, de¬manding simultaneous polls in all civic bodies. The case will be heard on November 17. The BJP has also demanded central security forces for the civic polls. On Tuesday evening, party leaders including state unit chief and MP Sukanta Majumdar, leader of Opposition Suvendu Adhikari, national vicepresident and MP Dilip Ghosh and state unit’s general secretary (organisation) met with the leaders of Howrah and Calcutta in two meetings held at the state party headquarters. The CPM and Congress have also spoken on similar lines. CPM Leader Shamik Lahiri said that his party had been demanding civic polls for a long time. “Why only two? Polls have to be held in all civic bodies and it has to be ensured that voters can cast their votes,” Lahiri said. State Congress chief Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury wondered whether the civic polls would be a repeat of the 2018 panchayat polls where the Trinamul Congress had been accused of preventing Opposition candidates from filing nominations. Opposition parties had also accused the Trinamul of “vote loot”. Adhir hoped the exercise would not end in a farce this time too.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-105
10-11-2021||West Bengal||Mercury dips in south districts||The mercury on Tuesday plunged to 14°C in Purulia, Bankura and some other districts of South Bengal, around three notches below normal for this time of the year. Free flow of cold and dry north-westerly winds from the upper reaches of the country dragged the Celsius down, said weathermen. But this does not indicate an early onset of winter, said a Met official. It is tipped to be arrested from Thursday. “A low pressure area has formed over the Andaman sea. It is expected to move towards the Tamil Nadu coast over the next couple of days. This will inject moisture into south Bengal,” said a Met official. Hence, starting Thursday, minimum temperature in Purulia and Bankura would be in the range of 16-17 °C. The phase is expected to last for four-five days. The mercury will start going down again after the system dissipates, the Met official added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-105
10-11-2021||West Bengal||Active Covid cases rise by 17||Bengal on Tuesday reported 788 new Covid19 infections, 759 recoveries and 12 deaths, resulting in a rise by 17 in its active cases to 7,916. Over the past 45 days since Bengal snapped out of a 97day fall in active cases or the number of Covid patients being treated, there has been a net rise of 242 in active cases, from 7,674. A minister said that the new infections reported on Tuesday indicated people who had been infected between October 31 (four days before Kali Puja) to November 4 (Kali Puja). Calcutta reported 202 new infections and North 24Par¬ganas 146 on Tuesday. Both the districts reported four deaths each. These were also only two of the state’s 23 districts with a three igit figure of new cases found. Six districts reported a single igit figure. Calcutta, North and South 24 Prganas, Howrah, Hooghly and Nadia accounted for 602 or 76.4 per cent of the new infections detected on Tuesday. The state’s recovery rate is 98.3 per cent currently, while that of the nation is 98.25 per cent. Bengal’s daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 2.12 per cent on Tuesday. Seventeen districts reported zero deaths. Bengal’s mortality rate is 1.2, while that of the nation is 1.34 per cent. Bengal now has nearly 16 lakh Covid19 cases, since the first was logged in March last year. The total includes close to 15.73 lakh recoveries and 19,252 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-105
10-11-2021||West Bengal||Kathmandu-Siliguri bus service resumes||The bus service between Siliguri and Nepal capital Kathmandu has resumed with the neighbouring country giving the nod after a gap of one-and-a-half years owing to the pandemic. In 2019, the bus service was launched in Kathmandu. Every day, two buses would leave from both the locations that are 650km apart. Two buses were run by transporters in Nepal and two others from Siliguri by transporters based in India. “Introduction of the bus service on this route was a part of a bilateral agreement signed between India and Nepal during Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to Nepal in 2014. The service was operational and people from both countries and international tourists availed it regularly. However, because of the Covid-19 pandemic, the service stopped around one-and-a-half years’ back,” said a source in the state transport department. A few days back, the Nepal government and other concerned authorities granted permission to run the two buses from their end. “Yesterday (on Monday), one of the buses reached here and today (Tuesday), it left for Kathmandu,”  said Santosh Saha, president, Siliguri Bus Owners and Booking Agents Welfare Association.  Saha added: “We have taken up the issue with authorities here (India) and hope our buses would be allowed by the Indian government to run soon.”  For now, Saha said, the service would be available on alternate days. It would be daily when buses from India start running. On Tuesday, the Kathmandu-bound bus left Siliguri around 3pm. It is expected to reach Kathmandu by 9am on Wednesday. “It is a 44–seater bus and on the very first day, we got 16 passengers here while another 24 will board the bus from Kakarvitta. The response is quite good,” Saha added. Kakarvitta is the bordering town in Jhapa district of Nepal, located on the right bank of Mechi river bridge which marks the international border. On the Indian side is Panitanki (a locality under Siliguri sub-division), which is around 35 kilometres from here.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-105
10-11-2021||West Bengal||Mitra named finance adviser||The state government on Tuesday appointed Amit Mitra, who has to resign as finance minister as he did not contest the Assembly polls this time, as the principal chief adviser to the chief minister and the finance department. A notification to this effect issued by the finance department on Tuesday stated that Mitra would work as the principal chief adviser in the rank of a cabinet minister and would be entitled to emoluments, allowances and perks of a cabinet minister in the state government. The order also specified Mitra’s roles and responsibilities, which are: Senior government officials said the notification clearly suggests that though the chief minister is keeping the finance department portfolio with her and appointing Chandrima Bhattacharya as the junior minister in the department, Mitra would continue to helm the finance department. “It is clear that Mitra will stay the face of Bengal’s finance department... The chief minister does not want to risk of losing Mitra, who has been running the show in the finance department since 2011,” said an official. Mitra had taken oath as the finance minister after the Trinamul-led government came to power for the third consecutive term though he did not contest the polls citing ill health “One can be appointed a minister for a period of six months without winning as MLA. Hence, Mitra was retained as the finance minister. But by November 10 (Wednesday), Mitra has to resign as that six-month tenure gets over," said a source. Appointing Chandrima Bhattacharya as the junior minister in the finance department in addition to her responsibilities of health and urban development departments, Mamata decided to keep the finance department portfolio with her. In another reshuffle, Mamata gave additional responsibility of the panchayat department to Pulak Roy, who already has the charge of the public health engineering department. The berth in the panchayat department fell vacant after the death of Subrata Mukherjee on November 4. Water resources investigation and development minister Manas Bhuniya has been given the additional responsibility of the consumer affairs department.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-106
10-11-2021||West Bengal||Crab hunter attacked by tiger, injured||A crab hunter suffered multiple injuries when a royal Bengal tiger pounced on him while he and two others were inside a creek in Belifeli jungle on Monday evening. The trio said they had permission for fishing but a senior forester said that the spot where the attack happened was a tiger habitat, off bounds for people. Laxminder Sanfui, 51, a resident of Deulbari area of Kultali’s Debipur gram panchayat, received serious head injuries. The others on the boat, his brother Soumitra and neighbour Ibrahim Sheikh, managed to rescue him by “fighting hard” with the tiger. Laxminder was rushed to Joynagar rural hospital in the Kultali block late on Monday night. Owing to continuous bleeding, he was shifted to Chittaranjan National Medical College Hospital on Tuesday. Local sources in Kultali said Laxminder, Soumitra and Ibrahim who, left Deulbari on Monday morning to trap crabs, were in the evening taking rest after anchoring the boat in the middle of the creek when the tiger swam up to them and attacked the trio. “The tiger leaped onto our boat and attacked Laxminder, and mauled him with his paws. It seemed desperate to drag him away. We fought hard with it and succeeded in driving it away,” said Soumitra. The trio claimed they had “valid permission” for fishing and hunting from the Kultali beat office. They claimed that the attack was unexpected as tigers are normally not seen in that stretch. However, this claim was rejected by the DFO (south) Milankanti Mandal. “The team had a permit for fishing only in the jurisdiction of South 24Parganas. But they sneaked inside areas of Sunderbans Tiger Reserve. It was an illegal infiltration,” the DFO said. “All recent incidents of attacks on people by tigers have occurred inside the Sunderbans Tiger Reserve. Tigers do not enter human habitation. Tigers always defend their territory and attack anyone who sneaks into their area of dominance. People should realise it,” Mandal added. An official of the reserve said that attacks on human beings by tigers tended to spike during the winter. “During winters, tigers come out of the mangrove and roam close to creeks unlike in the summer. During this time, we check our nylon netting and fencing so that they do not come out into villages. It appears that the tiger noticed his prey, the unprotected crab hunters, and attacked them,” the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-106
10-11-2021||West Bengal||Cooch Behar Trinamul leader attacked, BJP blamed ||A block Trinamul leader, who is also an elected representative in a rural body, was assaulted by suspected BJP supporters in DinhataI block of Cooch Behar district on Saturday night. Banik Roy, who is the deputy of a Trinamul-run panchayat of the block, said he was on way home from a club in Petla area. While he was crossing a locality, a group of youths, allegedly BJP supporters, came on motorcycles and intercepted him. "They were in three motorcycles and attacked me. I was pushed, kicked and punched as they went on hurling abuses at me for actively engaging in political activities. As I raised an alert, some local residents rushed to help and the attackers fled," said Roy, who is under treatment at the sub-divisional hospital in Dinhata. As the news spread, a team from Dinhata police station visited the spot. They have also registered a case and are probing the incident. The BJP, however, has denied the charge. “It is the fallout of Trinamul's internal rivalry,” said a BJP leader. Crude bombs explode Two persons, including a woman, got injured after some crude bombs, concealed in a pile of cow dung, exploded at Brohmanir Chowki village under BhetaguriII panchayat of Dinhata on Sunday. The woman is under treatment at a private nursing home in Cooch Behar. The man has been released after first aid. Police officers have visited the spot. A search would be conducted in the locality to find out if more bombs are hidden, said sources.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-106
10-11-2021||West Bengal||CPM rallies in protest of worker’s murder||The CPM on Tuesday took out protest rallies across Birbhum and demonstrated in front of at least 10 police stations against the murder of their elderly party worker who was beaten allegedly by Trinamulbacked goons on Monday for hoisting the party flag on occasion of November Revolution on Sunday. Badal Sheikh, 68, an active CPM worker from Baliguni village of Nanoor was killed and his party colleague Nishapati Thandar, 65, was badly injured in the beatings triggered allegedly for “daring to hoist the CPM’s flag in village Baiguni of Birbhum district’s Nanoor. On Tuesday evening, CPM leaders and party activist took out protest rallies across the district. They also submitted a deputation at police stations demanding the immediate arrest of the culprits involved in the alleged murder. “All our area committees took out protest rallies and held demonstrations in the entire district of Birbhum. The killing proves how the ruling party is desperate to stop its opponents from their basic rights. We will continue our movement if the police do not take appropriate steps,” said Goutam Ghosh, a CPM state committee member and a leader from Bolpur. The family members of the victims had also alleged that after brutally assaulting the duo the injured persons were not allowed to be taken to the hospital for several hours by goons of the ruling party. It required police to rescue the injured persons and rush them to the hospital where Sheikh was declared dead on arrival. “The delay in treatment cost my husband his life,” Jarina Biwi, Sheikh’s wife had said. Trinamul has denied the charges. “Trinamul had no reason to beat CPM workers. It could be a personal issue. Trinamul had no connection with it,” said district party chief Anubrata Mondal. Police officers in Nanoor said they were carrying out raids to find those involved in the incident.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-106
10-11-2021||West Bengal|| Duare Ration to be launched across Bengal from November 16||Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday announced that Duare Ration (doorstep delivery of ration), which she promised before Assembly elections, will be launched across Bengal from November 16. “Duare Ration will be launched on November 16. According to our promise, ration dealers will reach out to the doorsteps of  consumers with food grain,” said the chief minister in the Assembly. The state government had started a pilot project with around 3,000 ration dealers in the state from September to check how it works at the grassroots. Officials said Mamata announced the project for the entire state after the pilot project was successful. There are around 20,800 ration dealers across the state. According to plan, ration dealers will divide their beneficiaries into 16 clusters and reach out to them in the cluster concerned once a month to deliver foodgrain on people’s doorsteps. Ration shops would be opened on Saturday and Sunday. Those who would fail to collect food grain from Duare Ration can get so from shops, said  a senior food and supply department official. “But the real test for authorities will be when dealers reach the doorsteps of 10.33 crore card holders,” he added. The chief minister said hers was the only party that kept its poll promises. “We are the only party (Trinamul) that keeps its promises  made in the manifesto. Many political parties claim to bring good days but actually bring bad days,” Mamata said, taking a dig at the BJP’s achche din. Ration dealers will carry PoS (point of sale) machines and weighing machines along with foodgrains on a vehicle and deliver the items at homes by verifying the identities of the beneficiaries, sources said. Some ration dealers are opposed to the scheme, having expressed their inability to implement it. However, senior officials in the government claimed all ration dealers in the state were on board. “All dealers in the state will take part in Duare Ration scheme. People have the option to take ration from the shop too. There is no case of unwillingness among the dealers,” said Jyotsna Mandi, the minister of state of food and supply department. The government, sources said, has promised financial benefit to ration dealers to run the scheme smoothly. Also, officials in districts have held meetings with aggrieved dealers and managed to convince them of the importance of the project. However, Biswambhar Basu, national general secretary of All India Fair Price Shop Dealers’ Federation, said many dealers, especially elderly ones and women, faced practical problems in implementing Duare Ration. “We will participate in the inaugural programme on November 16 where the chief minister would be present. Many elderly and lady dealers will face problems in carrying out the scheme. We will tell the chief minister of the problems on the inaugural day. We hope she will help us to resolve the issues,” said Basu. Mamata on Tuesday also announced that the third phase of Duare Sarkar and Paray Samadhan will start from November 16 and continue for a month till December 15. “I consider the Duare Sarkar scheme to be outstanding and I believe this scheme would be considered globally one day. Another popular scheme of our government is Paray Samadhan. Both schemes would start again from November 16 for a month,” Mamata said. “On the first phase of Duare Sarkar three crore people attended in 33,000 camps across the state and in second phase 3.61 crore people came up in over a lakh Duare Sarkar camps,” she added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-106
10-11-2021||West Bengal||Dhankhar U turn on summit bonhomie||Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar, in less than 24 hours of a gesture of bonhomie from chief minister Mamata Banerjee after a long spell of friction between the Raj Bhavan and Nabanna, did a Uturn with a public statement reiterating his critical stand against her government on the Bengal Global Business Summit. Dhankhar’s tweet on Tuesday evening demanded answers from the state government on “critical issues” pertaining to the summit. “Concerned at lack response @MamataOfficial on critical issues flagged a year ago on 5 editions #BGBS. Ground reality belies ‘resounding success’ syndrome,” he posted. “Rule of law, respect for human rights & democratic values are imperative for investment. Much needs to be done on these fronts,” he added. Dhankhar was referring to an August 2020 letter sent to Mamata, demanding clarity on previous five editions of the summit, during which total committed investment was to the tune of Rs 12,32,603 crore and in a February 2019 speech (drafted by the government) read by him in the Assembly, investment proposals of “nearly Rs 10 lakh crore”,“of which more than 50 per cent is under implementation” was mentioned. “Call upon @MamataOffi¬cial to come out with a WHITE PAPER #BGBS so that information is available in transparent and accountable manner. It is our obligation that we subscribe to sanctity of facts and not dictate actions by mere optics of advertisements and statements,” added Dhankhar on Twitter. The Dhankhar attack came a day after Bengal chief secretary H.K. Dwivedi announced that the next edition of summit will be held on April 20 and 21 next year, at a festive season get together. At that gathering, Mamata sought Dhankhar’s support to make the summit a success. Shortly after his tweet, Mamata mounted a counter offensive during her speech at the inauguration of a Jagaddhatri Puja. “In all my years in parliamentary democracy, in my seven terms as an MP, we believed in and adhered to the culture of mutual respect and propriety... But now, we often see that there are some, occupying constitutional posts… looking, from the moment they wake up in the morning, for ways to needle (the state government),” she said. Trinamul Congress’s state general secretary Kunal Ghosh said what Dhankhar had said on Monday was, indeed, as the governor of Bengal. “The tweets today are for saving his job. It is the statement of a dawlo dash (slave to a party),” said Ghosh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-106
10-11-2021||West Bengal||Now, dip into digital wallet for toy train tickets||The Northeast Frontier Railway (NFR) has come up with a new initiative to ease the ticketing process of the Darjeeling Himalayan Railway (DHR) toy train, recognised by the Unesco as a world heritage mountain railway. According to railway sources, the DHR has joined hands with digital wallet company Paytm to launch a QR code-based ticketing system. “The system has been in¬troduced on November 2 and anybody intending to take a ride on the toy train can simply purchase digital tickets through the Paytm app. It enables commuters to book tickets without being physically present on the railway station, increasing their convenience,” said a source in NFR. A senior railway official pointed out that on a number of occasions, they have received queries from tourists and toy train enthusiasts on how tickets can be booked for a Joy Ride, the most popular train ride between Darjeeling and Ghoom. “Anyone coming to Darjeeling hills can easily book the tickets now via Paytm. The available train services, status of booking and other details will also be available on the app. While travelling, they only need to show  digital tickets to the ticket collector. This new facility, we believe, will draw more people to the toy train,” he said. Railway authorities have also lined up the Ghoom Festival between November 13 and December 5 to draw tourists. Ghoom is the highest station in India at an elevation of 2,258 metres. Food fests, joy rides, her¬itage and tea walks, forest trails and cultural events would be a part of the festival. “We have launched a website, www.ghumdhr.com, for the fest,” said a DHR official. During the past few months, especially after the Centre planned to monetise the heritage mountain railway along with many other governmentrun facilities, the NFR and DHR authorities have introduced many new services such as Jungle Tea Safari and Red Panda. The New Jalpaiguri–Darjeeling train service has resumed. Also, they are aggressively publicising the option of chartering a train for social or business events.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-106
10-11-2021||West Bengal||KPP angry with BJP’s silence on ‘statehood’||The Kamtapur Progressive Party (KPP), a regional party in north Bengal with considerable clout among the Rajbanshi population that dwells here, has expressed disgruntlement at the BJP and has threatened to launch movement across the region if the BJP led Centre does not make any move over their demand for statehood. “Since 2014, senior BJP leaders have time and again promised us that they would consider our demand but so far, nothing has been done by the central government. We want to make it clear that if the Centre does not make any move during the upcoming winter session of Parliament, we will launch a movement across north Bengal against the party. They can’t simply get our support with hollow promises,” said Uttam Roy, general secretary of the party. Other political forces such as the the Kamtapur Peoples’ Party (United), a breakaway faction, and the Greater Cooch Behar Peoples’ Association in this region are also proponents of separate statehood. BJP legislator of Alipurduar John Barla, who is a Union minister of state now, has also flagged a similar demand. According to political observers, one of the key reasons for the success of the saffron camp in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls when it won seven of eight seats in north Bengal was its promise to look into the demands of statehood raised by the Rajbanshis and the Gorkhas. “However, the Narendra Modi government has not shown any indication that it is considering the demands. This led to protests in the hills which made the Centre convene a tripartite meeting last month. Now the Rajbanshis are aggrieved,” said an observer. “The saffron camp has started losing support, as was evident at the recent bypoll in Dinhata. It would be interest¬ing to see how BJP handles the situation, especially when some state leaders are against the demand,” the observer added. KPP leaders told newspersons that the party will launch a membership drive in north Bengal and in adjoining areas of lower Assam from next month. “We intend to provide membership to at least one lakh people of this region. The drive will start from December and go on till January end next year,” Roy, the party’s general secretary, said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-106
10-11-2021||West Bengal||Mamata rolls out rehabilitation package for land-losers in Birbhum||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday rolled out a rehabilitation package for land-losers affected by a coal project in Birbhum, which many in the Bengal administration believe may set the standard for land acquisition packages offered by state and central governments. The chief minister, who rode to power opposing forcible land acquisition by the Left government, made it clear while listing the contours of the rehabilitation package linked to the Deocha-Pachami project that taking along the land-losers by sweetening the deal is the only option to implement major projects. “There will be no forcible acquisition like it was done in Singur. We will start the project only after winning the trust of the local people,” Mamata told the Assembly on Tuesday. The Rs 10,000-crore package the chief minister announced on Tuesday includes several cushions in addition to compensation for the land. Some of the main features of the package are: ⚫ Rs 10 lakh to Rs 13 lakh a bigha (the market rate is around Rs 3 lakh to Rs 5 lakh a bigha, depending on the location) for the land-losers. ⚫ A house covering a carpet area of 600sqft in a colony that will be set up for the affected families. ⚫ An additional amount of Rs 5.5 lakh as shifting charge, maintenance allowance and cost of cattle shed. ⚫ Employment as junior constable in state police for one member from each of the affected families. ⚫ A maintenance allowance of Rs 10,000 a month for a year for each of the nearly 3,000 labourers working in the stone-crushing units in the area. ⚫ A one-time grant of Rs 50,000 each for 160 farm labourers in the area. They will be guaranteed work under the MGNREGA. ⚫ The stone-crushing unit owners in the area will be rehabilitated in a nearby industrial park and raw material will be supplied to them free for six months in addition to Rs 50,000 as shifting charge. A senior land department official said: “There is little doubt that it’s the best possible rehabilitation package and it will set a benchmark across the country.” Acquisition of land has been a topic of debate across the country ever since the Tata Motors factory was shifted from Singur in the face of Mamata’s sustained opposition to forcible takeover of land. Amid the nation-wide debate on how governments can acquire land, the Centre had introduced a new acquisition policy on January 1, 2014, by offering several facilities to the land-losers over and above compensation for their plots. The new land acquisition act, however, was not implemented in Bengal as the chief minister had made it clear that the state would not acquire land because it symbolised forcible takeover. In 2015, Mamata had announced a direct land purchase policy. The package announced by the chief minister has scored over the Centre’s new acquisition act, said a Bengal land department official. In the modified central act, the land-losers get three to four times the prevailing market price of land in addition to the cost of structure, if any, on the plot. “But the package announced by the chief minister has several other facilities like jobs for affected families, maintenance allowance for a certain period, shifting charge, dwelling units. The package has taken care of all possible needs of the affected,” the official said. According to sources, Mamata had proposed to include many of these facilities in the new land acquisition act when she was part of the UPA, but none of these was accepted. “Now, as chief minister, she has offered all these facilities to the land-losers. If the package is accepted at the grassroots level, she would set an example across the country at a time when acquisition of land has become a problem throughout India,” a bureaucrat said. Senior officials said the package was drafted carefully to ensure that the project did not face any resistance and the Opposition parties did not get a chance to build a movement. “The chief minister knows the power of a movement against land acquisition and that’s why she has tried to sweeten the deal to the best of her ability,” a source close to Mamata said. Making the Deocha-Pachami rehabilitation package attractive was important for the state government for two reasons. First, out of a total of 21,000-odd affected people, 3,602 belong to SC communities and 9,034 belong to ST communities. “The chief minister would not want to make these sections of people angry as they together have 28 per cent votes. Furthermore, evicting SC and ST people forcibly would send a wrong message about the ruling establishment in Bengal across the country,” a source said. Second, the project is equally important for the ruling establishment as it would cut down the cost of electricity and help save money required to buy coal. The project is also expected to generate more than 1 lakh direct and indirect jobs. “For these two reasons, the rehabilitation package needed to be an attractive one. The package apparently covers all aspects. Importantly, the government has kept windows open to modify the project based on the demands from the local people,” said a senior official.Another official said that though the state government wanted to kick off the project on government land — Bengal has nearly 1,000 acres of the 3,400 acres of project area — it announced the rehabilitation package even before the work had started. “People would know what they would get even before the project starts. There will be no confusion among the land-losers. This is a perfect approach on behalf of a government that wants to implement the project without a confrontation with the land-losers,” a source said. The sources said the future of major projects in the state would depend on the acceptability of the rehabilitation package announced by the government. “This is the first major project being taken up by the Trinamul government since coming to power in 2011 where a large number of people would be relocated. If the package is accepted by local people, it would open up opportunities for other projects in the state and the package could be accepted as a model,” an official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-106
10-11-2021||West Bengal||Covid claims Birbhum doctor||A 59-year-old doctor died of  Covid19 infection in South Dinajpur district on Monday night. Koushik Ghosh, posted at the district hospital in Balurghat in the medicine department, was sick for the past few days. His wife, sources said, has also been defected Covid positive and is under treat¬ment at the hospital. Ghosh, a senior doctor, was a resident of Shantinike¬tan in Birbhum. He had been working in Balurghat since 2011 and used to stay in the Raghunathpur area of the town. “He got infected with the contagion a few days back while being on duty at the hospital. After he was tested positive, he was staying at home but as his conditions deteriorated, he was shifted to the hospital on Monday where he died after some hours. It is a shock for us as he was a reputed doctor of the town. We all have to be more alert in the coming days to avert the infection,” said Parthasarathi Mondal, the hospital superintendent. The doctors’ fraternity in Balurghat decided not to at¬tend private chambers across the town on Tuesday as a mark of respect for Ghosh. During the past few days, Covid cases have increased in South Dinajpur district, much to the concern of health officials. In the past 24 hours, 29 persons have been tested Covid positive in the district, said sources. “Ahead of the festivities, the number of cases had gone down but over the past few days, 20 to 30 fresh cases are being reported every day. As of now, there are around 200 Covid patients in the district,” said a health official. “The district administra¬tion has identified localities where cases are being reported on a regular basis and marked them as containment zones,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-106
