11-11-2021||West Bengal||Home buyers, now is the time to buy as prices are set to escalate ||Got your dream home during the lockdown? If not brace for realty prices to shoot up further as developers claim to be in an unfair battle with input costs. The Bengal chapter of the Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Association of India (Credai) apprehends unchecked rise of raw material cost would impact "Housing for All", a pet project of the governments at the Centre and the states. In the immediate aftermath of rising input costs, the affordable housing sector, which caters to 95 per cent of real estate projects in the country, could go up between Rs. 500-Rs.1000. “Projects which are near completion five per cent increase has already happened. And there will be an additional increase of 10 per cent in the next six months to a year. No developer increases the price of a housing unit at one go,” said Sushil Mohta, president Credai West Bengal. One of the factors to have hit the industry hard is the perceived monopoly of certain business houses in some of the sectors. The developers identified two key components; cement and polyvinyl chloride. “Reliance has a monopoly in PVC and they have increased prices. Everybody is aware of the cartels running in the cement manufacturers association. While cement prices are stable in Bengal, in other parts of the country, the situation is different,” said Mohta. The bulk of housing units in Bengal are in the price range of Rs 3,000 per square feet to Rs. 6,000 per square feet. The real estate industry forecasts a hike between Rs 200-Rs 400 in these units in the coming days. After the Mamata Banerjee government’s decision to reduce stamp duty by two per cent, the real estate sector saw a spike in sales, and believes that the post-pandemic economic recovery will augur well for the sector, but at this moment the industry is struggling despite meeting its average annual target of 15, 000 units sale. Most of the materials for construction come from outside the state _ tiles and flooring mostly from Gujarat and Rajasthan and plumbing materials from northern and western India. The change in state policy on sand mining, like a ban on overloading and the ever-increasing fuel costs have increased the price of ready mix concrete which needs stone chips and sand. Cost of sand has gone up by 60 per cent, while metals like copper, brass and aluminium used extensively in building projects have seen an average rise of 10 per cent. At the same time, labour cost has seen an increase of four to five per cent. "Many of us did not increase prices (in new projects) expecting the market would stabilise, but that did not happen. In the units that we had already sold there is nothing that we can do,” said Sidharth Pansari, a Calcutta based real estate developer. Developers say prices of steel, certain metals, ready mix concrete, transportation and labour costs have increased, which they have to bear and cannot recover the same from customers under the Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Act 2016 (Rera). The Bengal unit expects the national Credai body to take up the matter with the Union housing ministry. “Unlike other industries the money cycle in real estate is anywhere between three to five years. While Rera has boosted the confidence of  consumers, the clause of no escalation till delivery has hit the developers hard. Most of the developers now are suffering. There should be some insurance for the developers in Rera,” said Nandu Belani of Belani Group. A Siliguri-based real estate developer Naresh Agarwal said the North Bengal situation was even worse and they were facing raw material shortage which was pushing the input costs by 10 per cent more than the rest of the state. The industry, however, is banking on two factors that would keep it above the water levels in the coming years. “Home loans are cheaper now and because of the lockdown people have realised the need for bigger and better homes. We expect to sell more houses in the next calendar year,” said Mohta.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-104
11-11-2021||West Bengal||Srabanti 'bids adieu' to BJP||Popular Tollywood actress Srabanti Chatterjee, who had joined the BJP before this year's assembly elections and unsuccessfully contested against TMC heavyweight Partha Chatterjee, quit the saffron party on Thursday citing its "lack of initiative and sincerity to further the cause of West Bengal".  The 34-year-old actress had been maintaining a distance from the saffron party after it failed to unseat Mamata Banerjee's government from power in the eastern state despite a high-pitched campaign. "Severing all ties with the BJP, the party for which I fought the last state elections. Reason being their lack of initiative and sincerity to further the cause of Bengal," Chatterjee tweeted.  The West Bengal BJP, however, did not attach much importance to Chatterjee's decision and asserted that "it would hardly impact the party". "I really don't know whether she was with the party after the elections. It won't have an impact on the party," BJP state chief Sukanta Majumdar said.  Echoing him, BJP leader Tathagata Roy, who has been training his guns on the party top brass for the election debacle, called Chatterjee's quitting the party a "good riddance." Roy had criticised the BJP for inducting people with no political background, especially those from the entertainment world, and fielding them in the assembly elections while ignoring loyal and trusted party workers.  "Good riddance. I don't recall if she had any meaningful contributions in all the days," the former Meghalaya and Tripura governor said.  Chatterjee, who was once close to West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee and the TMC, joined the BJP in March this year. She was fielded in the Behala Paschim seat, where she was defeated by state minister Partha Chatterjee by over 50,000 votes. The actress joins a long list of celebrities and leaders who have either quit the BJP or are maintaining a distance from the party after its defeat in the polls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-104
11-11-2021||West Bengal||Boy who accidentally entered India handed over to BGB guards ||A Bangladeshi minor boy who had inadvertently entered the Indian territory while fishing was intercepted by the Border Security Force (BSF) on Wednesday and was later handed over to the authorities of the Border Guard Bangladesh (BGB) as act of benevolence. Sources said troops of the 72 battalion apprehended the boy, a resident of Thakurgaon district in Bangladesh, at Nargaon on the Indo-Bangla border in North Dinajpur district. “During interrogation, it was found that he was fishing along the banks of Nagar river that flows through the area and crossed the border unintentionally,” said a source. Later, the boy was handed over to the BGB. In another incident, police seized 83 kilos of cannabis estimated at Rs 6 lakh from a house at Rajpur village in Cooch Behar-I block on Wednesday morning. Jiten Sarkar, a resident of the village, has been arrested in this connection, sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-104
11-11-2021||West Bengal||Govt to convert 79 forest villages in Darjeeling  into revenue villages||The state government has issued a notification converting 79 forest villages in Darjeeling district into revenue villages, which means the forest dwellers’ decade-old demand for land rights has now become a reality. The notification is the second major development for Darjeeling region following the administrative meeting chaired by chief minister Mamata Banerjee at Kurseong on October 26. During the meeting, Anit Thapa, president, Bharatiya Gorkha Prajantantrik Morcha had raised the issue of granting land rights to forest villagers in Darjeeling district. The state government issued a notification dated November 2, 2021, to remove the last remaining hurdle in granting rights to forest dwellers. The other major development following the meeting was the decision to immediately run the Darjeeling Hills University which was due since 2018. The Scheduled Tribes and Other Traditional Forest Dwellers (Recognition of Forests Rights) Act, 2006, which is popularly known as Forest Rights Act, envisages granting forest dwellers the right to land (including patta) and other forest resources. Although the Bengal government had started the process of implementing the forest rights in the state in 2008, the same could not be started in Darjeeling hills because of the lack of a panchayat system. Forest villagers in districts like Alipurduar and Jalpaiguri were converted into revenue villages as early as in 2014. The one-tier gram panchayat ceased to exist in the hills from 2005 onwards but the forest act had mandated panchayats with certain roles in the entire process. “The lack of panchayat system in the hills and lack of coordination with the government (between GTA and state government)  were the main reasons behind the delay,” said Lila Kumar Gurung, secretary, Himalayan Forest Villagers Organisation (HFVO) HFVO along with Uttar Banga Van-Jan Shramajivi Manch and All India Forum of Forest Movements had been demanding forest rights to these villagers since 1994. In 2016, the Centre did mandate the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA) to take up the role of the panchayat in the exercise following which the process was initiated for the Darjeeling hills. “In Darjeeling district there are 98 forest villagers which means that 19 villagers have been left out from the latest notification. We are holding a meeting in Siliguri on Friday to take up issues of all the left-out forest villagers in north Bengal,” said Gurung. Some forest villagers from other districts have also been left out from the revenue village list. Vikram Rai, member of Darjeeling sub-divisional level committee on forest rights, which is one of the layers for scrutiny of application said lack of documentation was the only reason why some names and villages were left out. “Lack of documentation is the main reason and we are confident that all genuine claimants can be included in the list,” said Rai. It is estimated that nearly 1.5 lakh people reside in forest villages of Darjeeling hills.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-104
11-11-2021||West Bengal||Covid:  853 new caes, 809 recoveries and 15 deaths ||Bengal on Wednesday reported 853 new Covid-19 infections, 809 recoveries and 15 deaths, resulting in a rise by 29 in its active cases to 7,945. A minister said new infections reported on Wednesday indicated people who got infected between November 1 and 5 (the day after Kali Puja). Calcutta reported 227 new cases and three deaths on Wednesday. North 24-Parganas reported 153 new cases and five deaths. These are the only two of the state’s 23 districts with a three-digit figure.Seven districts reported cases in single-digit figure. Sixteen districts reported zero deaths. Calcutta, North and South 24-Parganas, Howrah, Hooghly and Nadia accounted for 611 or 71.63 per cent of the new infections detected on Wednesday. The state’s recovery rate is 98.3 per cent, while that of the nation is 98.25 per cent. Bengal’s daily positive confirmation rate, nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 2.03 per cent on Wednesday. The state’s mortality rate is 1.2 per cent, while that of the nation is 1.34 per cent. Over the past 46 days since Bengal snapped out of a 97-day streak of fall in active cases ahead of the Puja season on September 26, the state recorded a rise in its total of active cases for 26 days and a fall for 19 days. In these 46 days, there has been a net rise of 271 in the state’s total of active cases, from 7,674. Bengal now has over 16 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was logged in March last year. The total includes more than 15.73 lakh recoveries and 19,267 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-104
11-11-2021||West Bengal||Centre asks Bengal govt to start door-to-door Covid vaccinations||The Union health ministry has asked the Bengal government to start door-to-door Covid vaccinations as part of its new policy to speed up the jab process but the state is yet to start the drive. Sources in the health department said Bengal was yet to launch the doorstep jab drive as the state government has fielded a large number of health staff to bring people to vaccination centres. “For door-to-door jab, we need more staff. However, we are awaiting a nod from the state government to launch the drive advised by the Centre,” said a senior health official. The Union health ministry launched Har Ghar Dastak (knock on every door) after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the drive virtually on November 3. Bengal vaccinated 8.3 crore people till Wednesday evening. Of them, 5.9 crore received the first dose and 2.4 crore their second dose. Other health officials said if the door-to-door vaccination rolls out, rush at jab centres would drop. “The priority for the door-to-door drive is to vaccinate those left out or reluctant to take the jab. Once it starts, people don’t need to come to vaccination centres,” said an official. Delhi has asked the Bengal government to send a report on the door-to-door jab every week. “Initially, it will be a month-long programme and will run till November 30. We are already late in starting the drive,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-104
11-11-2021||West Bengal||Injured child from Malda dies as ambulance gets caught in blockade||A critically injured child from Malda died inside an ambulance near Krishnagar before daybreak on Wednesday on his way to SSKM Hospital in Calcutta after the vehicle was stuck amid Jagaddhatri Puja organisers staging blockade on NH12 demanding a go-ahead for traditional immersion processions. Krishnagar police in Nadia have started a suo motu case and arrested five persons on charges that include unlawful blocking of the highway and causing unintended death. Sakibul Seikh, 7, received head injuries on Tuesday evening when he fell off a terrace in Malda’s Mothabari-Ghuskitala village. He was rushed to Malda Medical College and Hospital, where doctors referred him to SSKM. Around 8.30pm, Sakibul’s father Sazlum Seikh, 33, and nephew Aminul Seikh, 20, left Malda with the child in an ambulance. A little past midnight on Wednesday, the ambulance reached the outskirts of Krishnagar and got trapped in the blockade. The hapless father pleaded with puja organisers to let the ambulance pass, but organisers allegedly refused to relent.Sazmul said even appeals to cops at the site failed to elicit response.  “The demonstrators were burning tyres on the road. I fell at their feet and pleaded with folded hands to allow the ambulance to pass. They refused. I tried to draw the attention of the police but they did not bother,” said Sazlum. Around 3am, Sakibul stopped breathing. Then, police helped the ambulance move past the blockade to reach Nadia district hospital in Krishnagar town where doctors declared the boy dead on arrival. Superintendent of Krishnagar police district Ishani Paul said offenders would be punished but refuted charges that the police did not help ensure the right of way to the trapped ambulance. “We neither had any knowledge about the ambulance nor did anybody approach us for help. The ambulance was probably far behind in the long line of trapped vehicles. Had it come to our notice, we would definitely have cleared the way for the ambulance,” the SP told The Telegraph. “It was a very unfortunate incident. We have started a suo motu case and arrested five persons. We are trying to identify more people by scanning the video footage,” she added. The five arrested organisers are Rana Sinha, 36, Ranjit Sardar, 25, Sanjib Halder, 28, Sritam Pal Chowdhury, 32, and Sunny Bhattacharjee, 27. They have been charged with ransacking, flouting government order, putting obstruction on public way, blocking national highway and also causing unintended death. They were produced before a court in Krishnagar and taken into police custody. Sakibul’s death sparked anger in his native village in Malda. A huge crowd that turned up for his burial on Wednesday demanded stringent punishment for those whose act of blocking the road contributed to the child’s death. This visible anger of demonstrators in Mothabari-Ghuskitala village prompted officials in Nabanna to seek a report from Nadia administration. Trinamul leader Debasish Roy, a puja organiser and member of the coordination committee, said: "We also want traditional immersion procession,but do not support the way some organisers had opted to protest on Tuesday night (the nightlong blockade).” Trinamul MLA from Mothabari and north Bengal development minister Sabina Yasmin met Sakibul’s parents at their village home and expressed her condolences. “I will take up the matter with the highest authorities so that the offenders are punished,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-104
11-11-2021||West Bengal||Mitra responds to Dhankhar’s white paper demand on investment||Amit Mitra, the principal chief adviser to the chief minister Mamata Banerjee, has defended with vigour the record of the Bengal Global Business Summit in attracting investments in the wake of criticism levelled by governor Jagdeep Dhankhar. Citing a letter written by Mitra to the governor a year ago, providing data on investment offers, projects under implementation and employment generation, the former finance minister sought to call out Dhankhar who has demanded a white paper on the  business summit. “It is shocking that he seeks response when I had officially responded with a 4-page letter on Summits, giving data on investment offers UNDER IMPLEMENTATION, EMPLOYMENT generation etc, (read letter below). Is he suffering from AMNESIA & needs HELP or is it a Machiavellian omission?” Mitra posted on Twitter. Mitra had written in the letter to Dhankhar that Rs 12,32,603 crore worth of proposals has been received by the state from multiple editions of the Bengal Global Business Summit from 2015 to 2019. “You would be happy to know that between BGBS 2015 and BGBS 2018, 50.27 per cent of the proposals went into the implementation mode. For BGBS 2019, already Rs 71,646 crore is under implementation. The employment generated through these investments is to the tune of 28 lakh already,” Mitra wrote to Dhankhar on September 24, 2020. Mitra was responding to the tweets of Dhankhar on Tuesday, a day after the governor appeared to bury a long-standing hatchet with the state government during a meet-and-greet programme attended by the chief minister. At that event, Mamata had sought Dhankhar’s support to make the next edition of the summit, scheduled  from April 20 to 21, a success. The governor had responded that “there is only one way, togetherness”. The very next day Dhankhar resumed his criticism of the government, prompting the response from Mitra. A Trinamul source said:  “The governor must have been ticked off by the BJP leadership after he agreed to the chief minister’s proposal and promised all help to make the business summit a success.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-105
11-11-2021||West Bengal||Kunal, Suvendu exchange war of words on Nandigram martyrs’ day ||Martyrs’ Day in Nandigram on Wednesday turned into a verbal slugfest between Trinamul’s Kunal Ghosh and the BJP’s Suvendu Adhikari, who helmed back-to-back events by their parties at the same spot, Shaheed Bedi. Both events were held under the banner of the Bhumi Uchchhed Pratirodh Committee, which pays tribute every year to those who died in the Nandigram anti-land-acquisition protests on March 14 and November 10, 2007. Trinamul state general-secretary Ghosh tore into Nandigram MLA Suvendu’s credentials and slammed his alleged communal turn for switching from Trinamul to the BJP. “Where was Suvendu when the CPM came to grab land? He was sitting in an air-conditioned room in Contai,” sneered Ghosh at the gathering. “You have been referring to Muslims as jihadi. Now, today, will you refer to the son of Feroza Biwi as a jihadi?” he asked, referring to Trinamul’s Panskura MLA whose son died in the 2007 agitation. Ghosh also told people how Suvendu “backstabbed” Mamata who gave him “political birth”. “If there is a recount for the Nandigram Assembly poll, she will win by over 22,000 votes,” he added, referring to the result in the seat,  now being challenged in court. Mamata had lost by a margin of 1,956 votes (0.85 per cent of the vote share) to Suvendu. A few hours later, Suvendu silently strode on the same stage scattered Gangajal on the dais, apparently to “purify” the venue after Trinamul’s event. “Pishi (Mamata) and bhaipo (Abhishek) sent a few of their servants here to appease the jihadis,” he said. “But none of them knows the true history of Nandigram,” he claimed, speaking about his role during the 2007 agitation. He also referred to an incident during the anti-land-grab agitation in which then BJP Union ministers L.K. Advani and Sushma Swaraj made their way to a seething Nandigram. “The BJP was responsible for eventual peace here,” claimed Suvendu. Later, minister and Trinamul’s Ramnagar MLA Akhil Giri accused Suvendu of usurping public land allotted for a healthcare centre when he chaired the Haldia Development Authority.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-105
11-11-2021||West Bengal||Bengal to gauge response before starting Deocha-Pachami project||The state government will wait for a month before it starts any work on the ground for the Deocha-Pachami coal mining project so as to feel the pulse of local people on the Rs 10,000-crore rehabilitation package that was announced on Tuesday. The decision was taken to ensure that the 21,000-odd people, who will be affected by the mega project, get sufficient time to evaluate the rehabilitation package. “Our first step will be using boring machines in 16 spots to find out how deep the coal reserves are. But we will wait for 30 days before starting any work as we want to know how people (on the site of the proposed project) are reacting to the rehabilitation package,” said a senior government official. “The Rs 10,000 -crore rehabilitation package has covered all the issues that could have (otherwise) led to agitations. Still, we have kept the window open for talks. If anybody has a grievance over the package, we will try to resolve it within 30 days,” said another official. Sources said this move clearly indicates that the government wants to ensure that work for the mega mining project gets off to a smooth start without agitation from land-losers. “It is clear that the government is not in a mood to start any work against the wishes of local people and is taking all steps to nip any kind of trouble in the bud,” said a source. According to sources, the West Bengal Power Development Corporation will open a site office to get proposals from local people in case they are dissatisfied with the package. Proposals would be settled within 30 days. Government sources added that the initial response to the rehab package seemed to be “mostly positive”. However, some tribal dwellers in the project area are unhappy, a section of officials added. Among the 21,000 people who would stand to be affected by the project, 9,034 are tribal and live in the core area of the proposed coal mine zone. Birbhum Adivasi Gaonta, a tribal outfit, plays a significant role in forming public opinion in the area. However, the tribal organisation is divided into two groups. Rabin Soren and Sunil Soren, the leaders of the two groups, on Wednesday evening separately held meetings with tribal people in Harinsingha and Dewanganj, respectively. “We have some confusion regarding the package. We will ask the government to clarify some issues,” said Rabin Soren. “We strongly oppose the package as it was not drafted after talks with people who stand to be affected. We want the government to come to us first… If the government tries to use force, tribal people will protest,” said Sunil Soren.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-105
