12-11-2021||West Bengal||Gold biscuits worth over Rs 1 crore seized, one arrested in Bengal||A man was arrested from a Howrah-bound train at the New Jalpaiguri Railway Station in West Bengal's Siliguri and gold biscuits worth Rs 1.08 crore were seized from his possession on Friday, DRI officials said. Acting on a tip-off, Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) sleuths detained the man from a reserved compartment of the train coming from Guwahati and upon finding discrepancies in his answers during questioning, searched him and found 13 gold biscuits in his possession, they said. The man, identified as Sheikh Saiful Rahman, is a resident of Howrah, the officials added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-102
12-11-2021||West Bengal|| Finger at Pandemic and cash crunch,  2 CM pet projects in limbo||The pandemic and the stressed finances of the state exchequer seem to have derailed two pet projects of Mamata Banerjee in Calcutta. The first project is a 2,400 seater indoor auditorium in Alipore, named Dhana Dhannye, scheduled for June 2019. As the deadline for the project, estimated at a cost of Rs 291.36 crore, was missed, authorities set a new deadline of December 2021. But the new deadline is also likely to be missed. “It appears almost impossible as physical progress of the project is about 68 per cent. Within next two months, it does not appear that the project can be over,” said an official. The second project, a G+6 multilayer car parking with office space and food court in Alipore, also missed its March 2021 deadline. Now, authorities have fixed a new deadline of March 2022. However, physical progress of the project is only 35 percent and it is unlikely that the project will be complete in the next five months, said a source. “The delay in these projects is indeed rare as both were the brainchild of the chief minister,” the source added. According officials, an internal report of the PWD cited Covid19 pandemic caused the delay for both projects. “There was a problem in getting labourers and several curbs had to be followed after the nationwide lockdown. All these caused delay and projects missed deadlines,” said a source. Some officials said the stressed state coffers could cause the projects further trouble. For Dhana Dhannye, the cumulative financial progress is 56.7 per cent. “This means, the state has to release the rest 43 per cent of Rs 291.36 crore immediately if the project has to be completed by December this year. But that would be a real challenge given the financial condition of the state after several welfare schemes including Lakshmir Bhandar were rolled out in recent months,” said an official. The picture is no different for the multilayer car park as its financial progress is only 20.04 per cent. “Allotment of funds remains a problem as a demand of Rs 3 crore was sent to Nabanna a month ago and that’s yet to be cleared. It seems unlikely that remaining 80 per cent of project cost would be released in the next five months,” said another official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-103
12-11-2021||West Bengal||Elephants change route, damage paddy in parts of East Burdwan||A herd of 49 elephants, including calves, ravaged paddy farms in parts of East Burdwan on Thursday.  Forest officials said the herd had charted an “unorthodox” route compared to earlier years, making it difficult to restrain them. East Burdwan, also known as the “rice bowl” of Bengal, traditionally yields high volumes of paddy in the start of the winter months. The district is not even listed as an elephant-prone area. However, the unpredictable behaviour of the elephants compelled the foresters to bring in at least three teams of experts from Bankura and West Burdwan to enable the jumbo herd to venture towards Ausgram in Birbhum. “It was an unusual route for elephants to follow. According to the latest update, the animals are now in the Ausgram area. We have to send them back to Bankura as there is no other alternative route for them. All forest divisions and the police and administration are helping us to handle this unprecedented situation,” said Nisha Goswami, divisional forest officer of East Burdwan. Sources in the forest department said the herd originally comprising 79 elephants had come from Dalma in Jharkhand and halted in Bankura’s Patrasayar for a month. Foresters were unable to drive them towards Midnapore, the usual elephant corridor, reportedly because there were at least two newborns in the herd. A part of the herd comprising 49 elephants had started moving towards East Burdwan’s Galsi after crossing the rivers Shali and Damodar and had reached East Burdwan by Thursday morning. “The herd travelled at least 25 km through paddy fields and finally reached Ausgram, a place opposite to their usual route. Our teams are working hard to manage the animals and send them back to their actual destination,” said a forester in East Burdwan. Foresters said the usual route of elephants from Dalma is through Midnapore and parts of Jhargram. “There are around 2,700 elephants in the Dalma range of Jharkhand and many herds come in search of food every year, but go back to Dalma as our staff move them on. The question is how the elephants moved towards East Burdwan. Earlier, one or two elephants had entered East Burdwan but never in such large numbers,” said a senior forest official. On Thursday evening, a group of villagers attacked a team dedicated to driving away elephants and manhandled at least five members of the team purportedly angry over crop damage in Ausgram. “Our first priority is to send the herd back to Bankura and ascertain that no loss of life should take place. We will assess damages later,” said Priyanka Singla, East Burdwan district magistrate. In Bankura’s Patrasayar, a group of farmers blocked a  road protesting the huge damage of paddy and vegetables by elephants on Thursday morning. Elephant dies Foresters located the body of a male elephant at a paddy field in the Nayagram range of Jhargram. Sources said prima facie it had been suspected that the 11-year-old elephant was electrocuted but the post mortem had nullified the hypothesis. “The death was not the result of electrocution and it has been confirmed after the post mortem. We will send the samples to Calcutta for further research to ascertain the cause of death,” said Shivanand Ram, DFO, Kharagpur.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-103
12-11-2021||West Bengal|| Farmers of two faiths inaugurate Jagaddhatri Puja in Malda||A group of around 15 farmers, both Hindus and Muslims, congregated at the venue of a Jagaddhatri Puja  in Malda district on Wednesday evening to inaugurate the puja. Members of Agnishikha, a theatre group that has been hosting the puja for past few years at Chari-Anantapur, a village in Malda near the India-Bangladesh border, said that they wanted to show their respect to peasants who are engaged in the movement against the Centre’s farm laws and to those who had lost their lives in the Lakhimpur Kheri massacre in Uttar Pradesh on October 3 this year. “The relentless movement by farmers for over a year is an issue that we cannot undermine as citizens of this country. We were touched by the valid demands of the farmers. After the massacre at Lakhimpur Kheri, we felt like doing something to honour those who feed us. That is why we thought of inviting some of them to inaugurate our puja,” said Pankaj Trivedi, the secretary of the puja committee. So, instead of political leaders or celebrities, farmers Suresh Mandal, Biswanath Ghosh, Mokail Sheikh, Uttam Roy, Intaz Mia, Meza Sheikh and others  stood in line to inaugurate the puja. They cut the ribbon together and lit a “diya” one after another to mark the opening of the puja that will continue for next few days. Each farmer was felicitated with flower bouquets, sweets and new clothes.  The farmers looked overwhelmed. “This is the difference between Bengal and Uttar Pradesh. There, farmers are killed and here, we are treated as envoys of the goddess,” said Suresh, a marginal farmer. Uttam, another farmer present at the event, said the exorbitant hike in petrol prices have hit the farmers hard. He added that he was praying for fuel prices to fall. Puja organisers said Jagaddhatri is believed to be another avatar of Annapurna, the goddess who is believed to feed the entire world. “These farmers are her true representatives. They have only one identity that they feed people, going beyond all communities and religions. That is why we thought of inviting them to the puja,” one of the organisers said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-103
12-11-2021||West Bengal||Healthcare boost: Two new hospitals to come up in Jalpaiguri||The state health department has decided to augment health infrastructure in Jalpaiguri district and in north Bengal as a whole to reduce the workload of the existing state-run hospitals of the region. Sushanta Roy, the officer-on-special-duty deputed by the department in north Bengal, said on Thursday that two 100-bed hospitals will come up in Jalpaiguri district. “The department has agreed to set up two new hospitals, each of which will have 100 beds, in Malbazar and Maynaguri towns. We have already identified the land required for the new facilities near the existing super specialty hospital in Malbazar and near the Maynaguri rural hospital. In due course, similar hospitals will also come up in different locations of other districts across the region,” Roy said. Ever since the Covid-19 pandemic has hit the state, the Mamata Banerjee government has taken the task to develop health infrastructure across the state. “In past one-and-a-half years, it has been found that when Covid cases go up, there is paucity in beds at the hospitals for patients affected with the contagion. As a result, we have to open additional facilities. Also, patients suffering from other diseases too face the shortage of beds. To address this situation, the plan to set up new hospitals has been drawn up,” said an official of the department. Along with the new hospitals, it has also been decided to increase the number of beds at the block health centres. “In each such centre, a 20-bed facility would be developed. For these facilities, prefabricated construction materials would be used. This will reduce the expenditure as well as expedite the construction work. We have sought a list of the block health centres from each district on the basis of the intensity of patients so that the locations for this proposed facility are selected on priority basis,” said Roy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-103
12-11-2021||West Bengal||School for sex workers’ kids in Cooch Behar||Sushila (name changed) is a 30-year-old mother more eager to celebrate Children’s Day on November 14 than her three-year-old son. Sushila always dreamt of a bright future for her son but her profession of a sex worker had been a setback. Now, however, Darjeeling-based Mankind in Action for Rural Growth (MARG) along with another non-government organisation FXB India Surakasha has decided to start the Suraksha Learning Centre from Friday for children of sex workers at Changrabandha in Cooch Behar district. “We always wanted to reach out to these people but it was difficult. The Covid-19 pandemic came as a blessing in disguise as we could come to this place to distribute ration and help us understand their problems,” said Nirnay John Chhetri, founder of MARG. They are working with 120-odd  female sex workers who desire to educate their children but are worried of the discrimination the latter face outside the community owing to the profession of the mothers. A study conducted by the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) in 2019 said that children of traditional sex workers often face abuse and discrimination at school by students from other communities. Hence, they prefer to live in isolation from the rest of the society, the study, based on a set of questionnaires given to 1,000 respondents, had stated. At Changrabandha, some 80km from Cooch Behar town, only 10 young girls out of 100-odd children go to a nearby government school. “To start with, we have decided to cater to the first batch of 30 children below the age of five,” said Chhetri. The NGOs have roped in a graduate from outside the communityto teach the children. Plans are afoot to introduce extra-curricular activities such as storytelling, dance, singing, football and cricket for the children. Sex workers are keen on this project. One of them even sold her land to construct infrastructure with a plan to set up a school in the area. “We have now taken that space on hire for a monthly rent of Rs 10,000,” said Chhetri. MARG also received help from well-wishers like Himalayan Yoga Bliss to start this new initiative. “We also used funds collected during a recent marathon in Darjeeling for this project,” the social worker said. Apart from starting a learning centre for older students, MARG is also looking at starting livelihood generation projects like poultry to fund the educational project.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-103
12-11-2021||West Bengal||Hill women’s soccer club to participate in Calcutta league||A women’s football team from the Darjeeling hills is all set to participate at a soccer league in Calcutta next year. The tourney — Calcutta Football League, also known as Kanyashree Cup, — is hosted by the Indian Football Association. According to representatives of the United Kurseong Football Club (UKFC) — that functions under the Kurseong Football Association (KFA) — they had submitted a memorandum to state minister for sports and youth affairs Aroop Biswas during his visit to the hills last month. We also told him that despite inappropriate infrastructure and lack of a proper soccer ground we have good women football players in hills and they can play at the Calcutta league,” said Sudip Rai, the general secretary of the KFA. n the course of the meeting, Biswas had assured the local soccer body of Kurseong that he would take necessary steps and had asked them to prepare a pool of footballers who can represent the hill town in Calcutta. “As per the instructions from the sports minister, we will organise a month-long conditioning-cum-trial camp for women footballers of the hills from November 28. The camp will be held at Sukna (located around 10km from here). We have set a target to select a group of 20-odd players to represent the league that will be held next year. The UKFC is one of the prominent clubs of the region and it will represent our team,” added Rai. The 35-year-old soccer club  participates in various football tournaments every year and has produced a number of national level players. For the past couple of months, KFA has been promoting women’s soccer across the hills. It has already organised two back to back women’s football tournaments in the tiny hilly hamlet on sub-divisional and district level.   On the basis of the performances of the players, around 20 players were selected by the association to appear in the trial for selection of the Bengal team for the ensuing Santosh Trophy tournament for women’s which will start from November 28 in Kerala. Crispin Chhetri, the former footballer of the UKFC who is the head coach of the women’s soccer team of Odisha, was present during the trial camp.  “On November 6, we got information about the trial that was held in Calcutta on November 8. Because of such a short notice, altogether 11 players of the KFA could manage to reach the selection venue,” Chhetri added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-103
12-11-2021||West Bengal||Discontent in BJP rank and file over Howrah leader ouster||The summary expulsion of BJP’s Howrah Town organisational district chief Surajit Saha for his comments against leader of the Opposition Suvendu Adhikari has triggered a virtual revolt among old-timers with several leaders showcasing the incident as an instance of the Nandigram MLA “blackmailing” the state party leadership. These leaders said Saha, who has been a BJP worker for 28 years, was expelled from the party within hours of publicly lashing out against Adhikari on Wednesday. The Bengal BJP’s current unit severed ties with Saha over a single phone call from Adhikari, the sources said. “After Surajit’s video went viral and was being aired everywhere, Suvenduda called Amitavada (Chakraborty) and told him that if action against Surajit wasn’t taken immediately he will not come to the party office and also stop being involved in party affairs. Within moments, it was decided that Surajit will be expelled without even being given a chance to explain himself,” a state BJP functionary said. Chakraborty is the general secretary (organisation) of BJP’s state unit. The incident has again revealed fissures within the BJP, which saffron leaders otherwise try to project as a unified entity. At a closed-door meeting of BJP leaders from Calcutta and Howrah on Tuesday, which was attended by Saha, the Nandigram MLA had alleged that a section of Howrah’s BJP leaders and workers had been bribed by Trinamul Congress to sabotage the party’s chances in the Assembly polls held in April. This accusation angered Saha and on Wednesday, he publicly hit out at Adhikari. He questioned the decision to appoint Trinamul turncoat Rathin Chakraborty as the chief of a committee formed to oversee the ensuing civic polls in Howrah. Saha had questioned the party leadership for not appointing a BJP old-timer to the post. “Howrah’s BJP workers don’t need to take a certificate from Suvendu Adhikari, who joined the party just a few months back.… Rather he needs to prove that he isn’t guilty of receiving bribes in the Narada case…. There is video proof of it,” Saha said on Wednesday. BJP leaders supporting Saha said  multiple leaders and workers have publicly criticised the party and its leaders, including former state president Tathagata Roy. Why was no action been taken against them, they asked. The  BJP appointed Moni Mohan Bhattacharya as the convenor of Howrah Sadar district. The decision to replace Saha with Bhattacharya has split the state unit. Actor quits Actor Srabanti Chatterjee, who had joined the BJP ahead of the Assembly polls and was nominated as a candidate from Behala West constituency, quit the party. On Thursday, Chatterjee tweeted that the reason was “lack of initiative and sincerity to further the cause of Bengal.…”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-103
12-11-2021||West Bengal||Bengal reports 854 new Covid cases, 813 recoveries, 13 deaths||Bengal on Thursday reported 854 new Covid-19 infections, 813 recoveries and 13 deaths, resulting in a rise by 28 in its active cases to 7,973. Calcutta reported 236 new infections and two deaths on Thursday. A minister said new infections reported on Thursday indicated people infected between November 2 and 6. In the past 47 days since Bengal snapped out of a 97-day fall in active cases, there has been a net rise of 299 active cases or Covid patients under treatment. North 24-Parganas reported 159 new infections and three deaths. These were the only two of the state’s 23 districts with a three-digit figure of new cases in a day. Nine districts reported a single-digit figure. Calcutta, North and South 24-Parganas, Howrah, Hooghly and Nadia accounted for 629 or 73.65 per cent of the new infections detected on Thursday. Seventeen districts reported zero deaths. Bengal now has over 16.01 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was logged in March last year. The total includes more than 15.74 lakh recoveries and 19,280 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-103
12-11-2021||West Bengal||HC nixes plea for  immersion processions in Krishnanagar||Calcutta High Court on Thursday ordered that Jagaddhatri Puja organisers would not be allowed to take out traditional processions to immerse idols in Krishnagar and upheld an earlier decision of the state government owing to Covid safety protocols. The order was given after a Jagaddhatri Puja committee in Krishnagar moved court on Thursday seeking permission for immersion processions in the traditional way. The order comes a day after Sakibul Sheikh, 7, of Malda died inside an ambulance near Krishnagar on way to Calcutta’s SSKM Hospital. The ambulance allegedly was held up for hours by Jagaddhatri Puja organisers who blocked NH12 to demand a nod for traditional immersion processions. A division bench headed by Chief Justice Prakash Srivastava issued the order after the advocate general S.N. Mukherjee informed the bench of the sequence of events that led to Sakibul’s death. The Chief Justice said the high court in its order before Durga Puja had issued a ban on immersion processions for Durga Puja, Kali Puja, Chhath and Jagaddhatri Puja owing to Covid-19 prevalent in Bengal In a related development, police have started a probe into Sakibul’s death on the basis of three separate complaints filed with Krishnagar police. Initially, the police had on Wednesday begun a probe into the death on suo motu basis and had arrested five Puja organisers involved in the NH12  blockade. Later, two more cases were started on the basis of a complaint by Subhodh Ghosh, whose bus had been damaged during the blockade, and another one filed by Sakibul’s father. CCTV footage is being scanned to trace those involved in the blockade.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-103
12-11-2021||West Bengal||SC asks Tripura govt to ensure free polls amid TMC violence allegation ||The Supreme Court on Thursday directed the Biplab Deb government of Tripura to take all necessary steps to ensure free and fair civic polls after Trinamul alleged that its cadres were being targeted. In the order issued by a bench of Justice D.Y. Chandrachud, Justice Surya Kant and Justice Vikram Nath, it was stated that as the election process has commenced, it is the obligation of the respondents to ensure that no political party in fray is prevented from pursuing its electoral rights in accordance with law and from campaigning in a peaceful and orderly manner. The bench instructed the home secretary and the DGP of the state to ensure that all necessary arrangements are put into place and actions taken according to the order. Both of them have also been asked to file a joint report of compliance affidavit on steps taken in this regard. Trinamul had filed a petition that their leaders and workers have been prevented from free recourse to electoral campaigning in the state ahead of the civic polls. In Tripura, polls will be held in 20 civic bodies on November 25. These include the 51-ward Agartala Municipal Corporation, 13 municipal councils and six nagar panchayats. In all, these civic areas have 5.94 lakh voters and these civic bodies have 334 seats among which the BJP has fielded candidates in all seats and won in 112 uncontested. Trinamul, a new entrant in Tripura’s political arena, has fielded candidates in 124 seats. The Left and Congress have fielded around 225 and 100 candidates respectively. To gear up against the BJP-ruled government in the 2023 Assembly polls, Trinamul is taking civic polls seriously. The party has sent nine leaders, including five MLAs, to Tripura to join its local leaders to campaign.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-103
12-11-2021||West Bengal||CID submits interim report on Sitalkuchi firing during state polls||The state CID on Thursday placed its interim  report before Calcutta High Court on the firing on April 10 poll day allegedly by central forces that claimed the lives of four villagers at Sitalkuchi in Cooch Behar district. The sealed report was submitted before a division bench of the court headed by Chief Justice Prakash Srivastava. The bench fixed January 12 for hearing and asked the CID to continue its probe meanwhile. “During the last hearing in September, the court had asked the state government to file an affidavit and submit a progress report on the probe,” said a source. Sources said the CID report mainly dealt with the circumstances under which the CISF personnel opened fire and their conduct afterwards on that day. The firing had heightened political debate during the Assembly polls. While Trinamul had dubbed the incident as “genocide” and blamed the central forces for unprovoked firing, the BJP had echoed the CISF justification that the firing was partly to protect the booth under attack and partly in self-defence. The CID probe negated the BJP theories, said insiders. “The probe is based on the CCTV footage obtained from the polling premises.... It was clear the booth was locked from inside when the central forces opened fire outside. How can they claim that firing was necessary to protect the booth?” said a source in CID. “Moreover, if protecting the booth was the reason for opening fire, why did the central forces flee leaving the booth and the EVM unmanned after firing?” the source added. An investigator said central forces had violated guidelines citing that if someone is injured in firing by a law enforcing agency, it is the duty of the same agency to take the person to the hospital. The CISF personnel had left the victims bleeding on the spot. Additional reporting by Tapas Ghosh||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-104
12-11-2021||West Bengal||Bollywood film set in office tied to Citu raises hackles of workers' body||A Bollywood movie production house used an office of a workers’ union here affiliated to Citu as a “police station” set earlier this week, which has not gone down well with some Citu members. These angry members have protested against the permission granted by their colleagues for the three-day movie shoot starting last Sunday. On Thursday, 10 members of the Citu-affiliated Hindustan Steel Employees’ Union submitted their resignation. “We were annoyed to see our union’s flag and photographs of leaders of the Communist movement removed to facilitate the film shooting,”  said a protesting union member. Sources said the shooting of Pippa, a Hindi movie based on the 1971 India-Pakistan war, directed by Raja Krishna Menon, was carried out at the union office on Vidyasagar Avenue. The movie tells the story of Brigadier Balram Singh Mehta and his wartime travails. The cast includes Ishaan Khatter, Soni Razdan, Priyanshu Painyuli and Mrunal Thakur. To turn the office into a set for “Rajaganj police station”, portraits of leaders of the Communist pantheon were removed and a picture of Indira Gandhi added. Protesting leaders and workers of the HSU said the “decision” to allow a film production company to use their office for a shoot had not been discussed at any Citu meetings. They alleged that the permission was granted to the production house without informing the Citu leadership in West Burdwan and Calcutta. “We are unsure if the union office was rented out or the film production company was allowed voluntarily,” said another Citu worker. Sources in Citu said the film production company had approached some local leaders following a location visit in July. After the Durgapur leg of the shooting, the film production company moved to Jharkhand. The film  unit will reportedly return for shooting at the closed Hindustan Fertiliser Corporation township at Bamunara on the outskirts of Durgapur.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-104
12-11-2021||West Bengal||Bengal to express reservations on BSF jurisdiction to top official ||The top brass of the Bengal administration are likely to formally share with Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla on Friday their reservations over the Centre’s notification that extends the jurisdiction of the BSF from 15km to 50km. Senior officials in Nabanna said Bhalla would arrive in Bengal to hold talks with the state administration on the progress of border-related infrastructure such as outposts, fencing and roads along the international borders that Bengal shares with Bangladesh, Nepal and Bhutan. “But in all likelihood, the issue of extending the jurisdiction of the BSF from 15km to 50km within Indian territory from the international border will be the main point that the state administration would like to discuss as the ruling party considers it an infringement on state powers,” said a senior government official. The official then explained why state officials were eager to sound the issue before the Union home secretary. “Chief minister Mamata Banerjee had written a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi urging him to withdraw the notification, but the state is yet to get any response from Delhi in this regard. This is the first time that top Bengal officials will get a chance to discuss the issue (with Bhalla) and they will surely explain the state’s position,” the official said. In her letter, Mamata said the extension of BSF’s jurisdiction would be an interference with the executive powers of the state as law and order is a state subject. The chief minister added in her letter that the wider footprint of the BSF would bring 37 per cent of Bengal’s total geographical area (88,752 sqkm) within the ambit of the central paramilitary force. Sources said the chief minister’s grievance is justified as in districts like Cooch Behar and South Dinajpur and in Siliguri subdivision, all police stations will come under BSF jurisdiction.  If Murshidabad district is added, the number of such police stations will increase to 70. Sources said in addition to the points raised by Mamata, officials are likely to point out that the BSF lacks manpower and expertise to investigate law and order issues. “Hence, if the BSF starts interfering in law and order issues, it things may turn critical. The state does not have any problem with NIA (also a central agency) carrying out searches, seizures and arrests in Bengal because it has expertise that the BSF does not,” said an official. According to sources, the meeting with Bhalla will be held at Hidco Bhavan in Rajarhat  where DMs of all bordering districts will join virtually while the chief secretary, home secretary and DGP will be physically present. Ruling Trinamul has decided to register its opposition to the new notification on record by passing a resolution that is likely to be moved in the ongoing Assembly session. Parliamentary affairs minister Partha Chatterjee is likely to propose the resolution in a business advisory committee meeting of the Assembly on Friday. “The decision to have such a discussion and pass such a resolution was taken before the session began. The business of the House remains decided till Friday, but we have time till November 18, this session. So it is likely to be scheduled for next week. We can say for sure after the business advisory committee meeting tomorrow (Friday),” said Nirmal Ghosh, Panithati MLA and Trinamul’s Chief Whip in the Assembly. “We remain firm on the issue and the decision to conduct such an exercise in the House,” he added. Sources in the treasury benches said the chief minister would’ve liked Bengal to be the first among the affected states to do this, but the Congress-led Punjab government already conducted a similar exercise in their Assembly on Thursday. “The Punjab development is unlikely to alter our decision. But certain aspects of the resolution might undergo a little alteration, given the Punjab context,” said a source. Mamata, who wrote a firm letter protesting the decision to the Centre, is yet to come out all guns blazing in her public addresses against it. But sources in the party said that’s largely on account of the long autumnal festive season that is just about to end. Her party’s spokespersons and its mouthpiece have been issuing critical statements for weeks. “It was also a key issue in the Dinhata by-polls, in which we wrested the seat from the BJP with an all-time record margin…. Politically, this is likely to favour us, going forward,” said a Trinamul Rajya Sabha member.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-104
