13-11-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul names its Goa face for Rajya Sabha, many leaders peeved ||The Trinamul’s so-called face in Goa Luizinho Faleiro, the former chief minister of the west coast state, was nominated to the Rajya Sabha from Bengal on Saturday. “We are extremely pleased to nominate Luizinho Faleiro to the Upper House of  Parliament. We are confident that his efforts towards serving the nation shall be appreciated widely by our people,” tweeted the party from its official Twitter handle to make the announcement, which has surprised and even displeased a section of the party. The move comes months before Goa goes to polls in February and the Trinamul has made much effort to get itself counted as a serious player in the state, against both the ruling BJP and the main Opposition Congress, which was rendered weak with a string of defections despite winning the most number of seats in 2017. Faleiro, a former chief minister and seven-times legislator, was Trinamul’s prized acquisition from the Congress in the run-up to the February polls. Bengal chief minister and Trinamul chairperson Mamata Banerjee spent a few days in Goa last month trying to woo other smaller parties in the state, but her efforts were largely snubbed. Trinamul did manage to sign in actor Nafisa Ali and Tennis ace Leander Paes into the party. Last, Paes was seen playing football with youngsters in Goa. “How is a leader representing Bengal in the Rajya Sabha supposed to cater to his home state some 2,146 km away?” asked a Trinamul leader. “Is he no longer being projected as the CM face? Does it mean we have announced ourselves out of the Goa race?” Faleiro is expected to file his nomination in Calcutta on Tuesday for the Rajya Sabha seat which fell vacant after the resignation of former MP and theatre personality Arpita Ghosh. The  Rs 2 crore MP local area development fund that Faleiro will be entitled to would have to be spent in Bengal, from where he is nominated. He will be allowed only to recommend work in his home state or provide financial assistance in case of a natural disaster. With the brute strength that the Trinamul enjoys in the Bengal Assembly, Faleiro’s path to the Upper House will be smoothest, but for the Trinamul the remainder of the journey may not be a cosy one. Trinamul insiders said ever since her return from Goa, Mamata had not taken any calls from the former chief minister. Mamata was apparently unhappy to have returned from Goa without getting to stitch any alliance with other local parties, which would have bolstered her chances for a non-BJP, non-Congress national front. “She feels Faleiro did not put in enough effort in getting like-minded parties together. The Rajya Sabha post is not a reward. It will help us keep our strength in the Upper House and maybe save future embarrassment,” a Trinamul leader said. Even the BJP chose to be caustic. " 'Banglar Meye' is squandering the Rajya Sabha seats from WB on 'Bahiragotos'. After @SushmitaDevAITC now its @luizinhofaleiro. Shouldn't Bengalis react to this deprivation? Why should Bengal pay if these people have no chance of getting elected on TMC tickets in Assam & Goa?" tweeted Suvendu Adhikary, leader of Opposition. Barely two months ago, another former Congress leader, Sushmita Dev, had joined the Trinamul and was promptly sent to the Upper House from Bengal. Daughter of the late Congress leader Santosh Mohan Dev, who has the distinction of being a Lok Sabha member from two different states, Assam and Tripura, Sushmita’s inclusion was expected to bolster the Trinamul’s chances in the state as a face against  Tripura chief minister Biplab Deb. For the November 25 elections to the 20 urban local bodies in the state, the party could field candidates in only 120 seats, even lower than the CPM’s 206 seats. The BJP has already won 112 of the 334 seats uncontested, giving it a free run in seven municipal councils. Trinamul has sent its MLAs from Shamsergunj, Champdani, Labhpur, South Burdwan and some other organisational leaders from Bengal to oversee the party’s poll process. “If with a leader who has been active in national politics, we still cannot get candidates for all the seats, what is the point in bringing leaders from other parties?” asked a Trinamul MP.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-101
13-11-2021||West Bengal||Bengal reports 860 new Covid cases, 14 deaths||Bengal on Friday reported 860 fresh Covid-19 cases and 14 deaths. The state logged 819 recoveries. The total active cases rose by 27 to reach 8,000. Calcutta reported 233 new cases and neighbouring North 24-Parganas 148.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-101
13-11-2021||West Bengal||More voices against wider reach of force, minister vents ire||The alleged BSF firing in Cooch Behar on Friday in which three persons died has put under the spotlight the Centre’s decision to increase the border-guarding force’s jurisdiction. The Union home ministry last month extended the jurisdiction of the BSF from 15km to 50km within Indian territory from the international borders Bengal shares with neighbouring Bangladesh, Nepal and Bhutan. The same decision has been taken for Assam and Punjab as well. The shooting took place on a day Union home secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla held talks in Calcutta with state officials on border issues. Sources present at the meeting, however, said the increased jurisdiction of the BSF could not be taken up at the meeting as the central officials did not want to deviate from the agenda. The Trinamul Congress demanded that the Narendra Modi government revoke the notification on the BSF’s wider reach. Udayan Guha, the newly elected Trinamul MLA of Dinhata in Cooch Behar, launched a vitriolic attack on the BSF. “The central government should immediately restrain the BSF. The BSF keeps claiming that it is vigilant but interestingly, smuggling does not stop at the (India-Bangladesh) border,” he said. Guha also raised the jurisdiction issue and said it would only add to the people’s woes. “We are well aware how people living within 15km of the border face inconveniences due to the BSF’s highhandedness. Our chief minister has already objected to the decision and the Centre should revoke the notification immediately,” he said. A senior Trinamul leader in Malda, another north Bengal district that shares a border with Bangladesh, said most residents of the district were apprehensive about the central notification. On October 24, chief minister Mamata Banerjee wrote to Prime Minister Modi, objecting to the BSF’s increased jurisdiction. She said the force was not equipped to deal with a wide range of law-and-order issues like the police. For example, in Malda, areas that are now under nine of the district’s 14 police stations will come under the jurisdiction of the BSF if its reach were to be increased to 50km within Indian territory from the international border. “There are a number of instances of BSF troops conducting raids, assaulting and detaining people, including elected representatives. We fear the situation will only worsen as it is evident that the force hardly uses non-lethal means when it comes to defence, unlike the police,” the Trinamul leader in Malda said. The CPM, too, has expressed dissent over the Centre’s decision. Senior leader Sujan Chakraborty, who was in Birbhum on Friday, criticised the increased jurisdiction and asked why the force’s reach had been reduced from 80km to 50km in BJP-ruled Gujarat that shares a border with Pakistan. “The role of the BSF in Bengal has not been good so far. They are there to manage the border and we don’t think there is any need to extend their operational area,” Chakraborty said. The Bengal BJP defended the Modi government’s notification and claimed that it had been issued “in the interest of national security”. “There are some political forces that encourage infiltration and intend to change the demography of the state for their own interests. That is why they are politicising the issue,” said Sukanta Majumdar, the state BJP chief.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-101
13-11-2021||West Bengal||Centre takes measures to prevent tea adulteration, notification issued||The Centre has moved to prevent unbridled blending of imported teas with orthodox Indian varieties, a menace repeatedly flagged by stakeholders in India’s brew sector. On Thursday, K.N. Raghavan, the deputy chairman of the Tea Board of India, issued a notification mentioning that no buyer who is registered with the board will henceforth be allowed to blend imported teas with orthodox varieties produced in four brew belts of India. “No registered buyers of teas shall blend any imported tea with teas of Darjeeling, Kangra, Assam (orthodox) and Nilgiri (orthodox) from the date of issuance of this notification,” Raghavan’s note says. Over the past few years, tea planters across the country, especially those producing high-quality orthodox teas including the Darjeeling brew, have been complaining that a section of people are importing teas from other countries, especially from Nepal, blending them with Indian varieties and selling them in overseas market. The planters have time and again written to the tea board and to the Union commerce and industry ministry. Shanta Chhetri, a Rajya Sabha MP of the Trinamul Congress from the Darjeeling hills, had also raised the issue with the Centre, complaining that the practice was affecting the domestic as well as global markets of orthodox teas.   That the tea board has taken note of the issue was evident from the notification where the deputy chairman has observed that “blending of such inferior quality teas was causing irreparable damage to the reputation of well known teas of Indian origin”. Mahendra Bansal, chairman of the Terai Indian Planters’ Association, said the problem was mostly with teas imported from Nepal. He said orthodox teas were also grown in hilly areas of Nepal where the terrain and weather are similar to those of the Darjeeling hills. There have been specific reports of tea from Nepal being sold as Darjeeling tea. The total amount of tea sold as Darjeeling tea in the domestic and international markets was markedly higher than the actual total production. “We hope the Centre will take necessary steps if there is any violation of the notification,” Bansal said. Planters also welcomed the tea board’s decision that details of the contents of the blend and the source of origin of imported teas must be mentioned on the packets. “It is another appropriate step and will largely help the Indian tea industry. We need to scale up our exports (that was 209 million kilos in 2020) as we are far behind the target of exporting around 300 million kilos of tea in a year from India,” said Raj Bansal, president of the Tea Association of India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-101
13-11-2021||West Bengal||RSS whiff in Malda’s Padma Shri recipient felicitation||Kamali Soren, a Padma Shri recipient this year, was accorded a grand welcome when she returned to her native place in Malda on Friday. However, her felicitation also sparked a fresh controversy as leaders and workers of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) and the BJP led the programme, held at Gazole in Malda and also at the district headquarters. RSS representatives, however, tried to distance themselves and claimed that the event was organised by the “Sachetan Nagarik Mancha”, a forum of conscious citizens. Soren, who lives in a hermitage run by the RSS-backed Akhil Bhratiya Vanavasi Kalyan Ashram at Gazole in Malda, was awarded Padma Shri for her contribution to social welfare. On Friday, the 50-year-old Soren, who is addressed as “Guru Ma” by her followers, reached Malda by train and was welcomed by BJP and RSS workers and leaders. She was taken to a hotel and was felicitated by workers of the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP), the RSS backed student’s outfit. After some time, Soren boarded a hoodless SUV and headed for Gazole. On arriving at Gazole, she received felicitations hosted by the RSS and the BJP and the ashram authorities. Some locals had also turned up to welcome her. Such felicitation of the Padma Shri recipient has, however, raised questions from different quarters. “People from all quarters and principles should have been invited to welcome her as she has received the fourth highest civil award of the country. It was unfortunate that the felicitation was compartmentalised for some reason or other,” said Sumanta Chattaraj, a prominent academic in Malda.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-102
13-11-2021||West Bengal||Mamata package likely to provide lifeline to land-losers of Loba site ||The Bengal government’s rehabilitation package for the Deocha-Pachami coal mine project has rekindled hope among land-losers of another project in Birbhum’s Loba that has been lying unresolved for 12 years because of protests to seek a better compensation deal. The Damodar Valley Corporation (DVC) is the implementing agency of the mega coal-mine project in Loba. The central private sector undertaking needs around 3,600 acres of land to start the project. The groundwork for the project had almost been completed by 2009, but the pause button had to be pressed in 2012 following a violent movement by those whose land had been identified. With the state government showing interest in the project, work resumed in 2017 and the area was again surveyed with the help of the Birbhum district administration to prepare a database on land patterns. “The rehabilitation package announced by chief minister Mamata Banerjee for Deocha-Pachami has impressed us. We have discussed the package with villagers in Loba and they expect a similar offer from the DVC. If the state government can offer a land price three times more than the present market rate and a government job for one member of very land-loser family, why can’t the central government-run DVC do the same?” asked Joydeep Majumdar, secretary of the Loba Krishi Jami Bachao Committee. The committee was formed in 2009 and has been fighting for the rights of the land losers. “We have informed state government officials about accepting a package similar to the one offered to land-losers in Deocha-Pachami,” Majumdar added. Although the DVC is yet to announce any package, people in Loba, 62km from Deocha-Pachami, are hopeful of a similar, if not better, deal. In September 2019, the DVC and the district administration had held a meeting where officials of the central public sector undertaking had proposed a compensation of Rs 14 lakh per acre. This was resisted by villagers as they felt it was low considering they would have to give up both land and residence. State government officials said that as per the pattern of the land, price of land in Loba was much higher than that in Pachami. They said proposal made by the DVC in 2019 was too low. If villagers in Loba are given a deal similar to the one offered to land-losers in Deocha-Pachami, they would get around Rs 30-40 lakh per acre. “We have heard that a meeting will be held soon to discuss the coalmine project. We will place the Deocha-Pachami package before DVC officials and demand the same for villagers here,” said Ujjwal Ghosh, a Trinamul leader in Loba. Senior district officials said they had received several communications from stakeholders in Loba about their willingness to accept a compensation package similar to the one the state government has offered in Deocha-Pachami. “We are receiving continuous communication from people in Loba but it is for the DVC to decide on the package,” said a senior district official in Birbhum.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-102
13-11-2021||West Bengal||Mutilated carcass of leopard found in Siliguri||The mutilated carcass of a leopard was found on NH27 near Bagdogra of Siliguri sub-division early on Friday morning. Foresters who visited the spot suspect that the animal died after it was mowed down by some vehicle. Around 6am, workers of a tea estate, adjacent to the highway, spotted the carcass while on way to the plantations to join duties. Soon, foresters at the Bagdogra range (of Kurseong forest division) rushed to the spot and recovered the carcass. “It seems when the animal was trying to cross the highway from the tea estate it got crushed under the wheels of a speeding vehicle. The leopard died on the spot,” said a forest official. According to him, the deceased was a male leopard and was around one-year-old. “The carcass has been sent to the Bengal Safari Park for autopsy,” the forester added. The incident has left wildlife conservationists perturbed. “The state forest department should find out whether there are more leopards in the vicinity and alert locals. Signage should be placed on that stretch of the highway so that vehicles do not overspeed to curb such accidents,” said Animesh Bose, a wildlife conservationist in Siliguri.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-102
13-11-2021||West Bengal||Bus collides with truck head-on: 3 die in accident  on road to Digha||Three persons were killed on Friday morning near East Midnapore’s Digha when a bus collided with a vegetable truck and careened sideways into two other vehicles near a bend on NH116B. The incident occurred around 7am and left 15 others injured, three grievously. All were rushed to Tamluk district hospital, from where two of them were referred to NRS Medical College and Hospital in Calcutta. “The incident occurred in the Narghat area in Chandipur and involved a Howrah-bound bus originating from Khejuri, a vegetable truck, and two other vehicles,” said a police officer. Two of the deceased were identified as Lalmohan Naik, 48, a bus driver from Khejuri, and passenger Bhupati Charan Das, 51, also from the same area. The third victim remained unidentified till late on Friday. The driver of one of the other vehicles, Sanat Mondal who was behind the vegetable truck, said the Howrah-bound bus “appeared out of nowhere” from the opposite direction. “That was probably because he was speeding through the turn,” Mondal added. He suffered injuries. The mangled remains of the vehicles halted commercial and tourist traffic on the busy highway for over three hours. The police cleared the highway by removing the vehicles with cranes shortly after 10am. Sub-divisional police officer (Tamluk) Atish Biswas said primary investigations had revealed a truck was parked on the side of the road on which the accident occurred. “The Howrah-bound bus overtook a standing trailer and hit a truck travelling in the opposite direction. Then he lost control and hit two more cars. Among the dead were the bus driver and two bus passengers. The body of one person has not been identified yet. His approximate age is 65,” the SDPO said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-102
13-11-2021||West Bengal||East Burdwan farmers deny jumbo passage fearing rampage ||At least 100 personnel of the forest department have been unable to drive away a herd of 49 elephants, including seven calves, from East Burdwan’s Ausgram as local villagers have not allowed the animals to cross their paddy fields since Thursday night fearing damage to crops. “We drove away the animals 8km towards Bankura but the move had to be halted late on Thursday night following protests by some villagers in Ausgram who apprehended loss to their crops if the elephants walked through their fields,” said a senior forest official in East Burdwan. “We have approached the local administration to help convince the villagers that the longer the elephants stay in the area, more will be the damage. After we failed to drive away the elephants, our team launched a renewed effort on Friday,” the official added. The elephant herd entered East Burdwan through an unusual route, posing a challenge for foresters to handle them. The animals travelled around 25km through East Burdwan, a district having inadequate infrastructure to tackle elephants. To help forest personnel, the department had hired a team of experts to drive away the elephants. On Thursday night, 100 foresters and experts had split up into four teams to chase the elephants back to the forests of Bankura. “We took every possible measure to drive away the elephants towards Bankura. But we met with resistance from villagers,” said Nisha Goswami, the DFO of East Burdwan. “We understand the anguish of the villagers. The elephants love to have ripe paddy. There are thousands of acres of ripe paddy in the district and the elephants can destroy the crop,” said a forest department official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-102
13-11-2021||West Bengal||Visva-Bharati agriculture students seek quota for PG admission ||Around 30 students of Visva-Bharati’s Palli-Siksha Bhavana — the department of agriculture — on Friday launched an agitation in front of the varsity’s central administrative office demanding internal quota for admission to postgraduate courses. The students, who continue to gherao officials of the varsity’s admission cell till late on Friday evening, demanded a halt to the ongoing counselling process for admission. They said Visva-Bharati’s admission process deprived internal students whereas two other state universities in Bengal had quotas for their own students. There are three universities in Bengal that offer postgraduate degrees in agriculture — Bidhan Chandra Krishi Viswavidyalaya, Uttar Banga Krishi Viswavidyalaya and Visva-Bharati. The first two universities are run by the state, while Visva-Bharati is a central university. “Bidhan Chandra Krishi Viswavidyalaya reserves 80 per cent of its total postgraduate seats for their internal students and Uttar Banga Krishi Viswavidyalaya provides 10 per cent grace marks for their own students. In the case of Visva-Bharati, all 61 seats are open to all. Visva-Bharati offers internal quota for all other departments but not in agriculture. We are opposed it,” said an agitating student. The students alleged that because of unequal competition, they were not getting admission in the two state varsities, while there was no quota for them in Visva-Bharati. “At a time when every department has an internal quota, why should the agriculture department be an exception? We are protesting against the injustice,” said a student. On Friday evening, after the agitation went past 10 hours, varsity officials started talks with two student representatives but the issue remained unresolved till the filing of this report. “The merit list has already been released and we can’t withdraw it now. We sympathise with the problems of the students but they could have come before the list was published,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-102
13-11-2021||West Bengal||Most ICSE schools across Darjeeling schools push back offline class||Most ICSE schools across the Darjeeling hills have decided against starting in-person classes from Tuesday. The few that are planning to resume physical classes are planning to keep the schools open during the winter months when hill schools normally remain closed. The Bengal government has allowed schools to restart in-person classes for Classes IX to XII from Tuesday after months of closure owing to the pandemic. The heads of several hill schools said it made little sense to start in-person classes from Tuesday, or November 16, given that winter vacations are to begin in two weeks from then. Many schools with boarding facilities are also apprehensive about opening their hostels as children below 18 years are not vaccinated against Covid. Of the 50-odd ICSE schools in the Darjeeling hills, more than 15 have boarding facilities. “Our school normally closes for a (three-month) winter break from November 30. So it makes little sense to call boarders and hold classes for only two weeks. Also, our annual session ends before the winter vacation starts,” said Rev. Joy Haldar, rector of St. Paul’s School, Darjeeling. Unlike in the plains, the annual session in the hills begin in March and ends in November, when the schools close for the three-month winter vacation. Annual examinations are held before the winter break. Most of the major schools in the hills, such as St. Joseph’s School (North Point) and Loreto Convent in Darjeeling and St. Augustine’s School, St. Joseph’s Convent and Dr Graham’s Homes in Kalimpong, have decided not to resume physical classes from Tuesday. These schools will conduct offline semester exams on  campus only for Class X and XII as mandated by the ICSE board. “We have no choice but to hold these examinations in school. Boarders will be arriving to sit for these examinations on November 20,” said Fr Stanley Varghese, rector of St. Joseph’s School (North Point), Darjeeling. The offline board exams will start from November 22. However, the handful of schools that have decided to resume physical classes from Tuesday said they were also planning to continue during the winter months, which would be a first for the hills. Robindra Subba, director of Himali Boarding School, Kurseong, said: “We are opening and in fact we are looking at having an elongated session till January 23, followed by a short break before we resume classes again in February.” Due to the cold, hills schools remain closed from December to February. Subba said that some schools in Kurseong were thinking of starting classes for the Class VIII and Class XI students immediately after the annual examinations are over. “This way we can start the new academic year immediately after the annual examination is over. We, however, have to see how the situation unfolds.” Apart from some schools in Kurseong, Rockvale Academy in Kalimpong has decided to restart classes on Tuesday. “Theatres have opened, malls have opened, children are visiting all these places and this is why we feel that they can also start attending physical classes now. We definitely have to maintain Covid safety protocols,” said a school head who has decided to reopen his institution.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-102
13-11-2021||West Bengal||3 persons killed in alleged BSF firing in Cooch Behar||Three persons were killed in alleged firing by the Border Security Force (BSF) in the small hours of Friday at a village along the India-Bangladesh frontier in Cooch Behar district.  The incident has reignited a long-standing debate on whether the BSF often resorts to strong-arm tactics while dealing with the challenges in border areas.  Officially, the BSF has not commented on the firing. Senior BSF officers said on the condition of anonymity that those dead were cattle rustlers, of whom two were Bangladesh nationals. The firing took place at Satbhandari village near the West Chamta border outpost between 3am and 4am, according to police. The village on the border is near Sitai police station in Cooch Behar. Senior district police officers visited the spot to mollify angry villagers. Sumit Kumar, the district police chief, said BSF personnel posted at the West Chamta border outpost noticed movements along the international border early on Friday. The personnel challenged the men but were allegedly confronted by around 50 cattle smugglers, Kumar said, recounting what BSF officers had told him during his visit to the spot of firing. Kumar said the pilferers attacked the BSF personnel with bricks and machetes, prompting the men in uniform to open fire. BSF sources said the force had no option but to fire. “Two bodies were found lying on the Bangladesh side of the border fence. They seemed to have been hit by bullets. They are reportedly Bangladeshi nationals. Their identities are yet to be established,” Kumar said. Another body was found in a village on the Indian side of the border. Based on the preliminary investigation, we can say that all three have died in the course of the same incident,” the Cooch Behar police chief said. The Indian who has died has been identified as Prakash Barman, 35, a resident of Chamta village. Chamta is around 1km from the firing spot. He was hit by a bullet in the head. The two other bodies have not been claimed by anyone yet. Prakash’s family and neighbours said he was a “dangowal”, or cowherd in Rajbanshi language, and was not involved in cattle rustling. Some people had come to his house last night and he had gone out with them. Today morning, his family members came to know that his body had been found. We fail to understand why the BSF shot him in the head? Also, if he had gone to the border, why was his body found in Chamta, which is 1km from the fence?” said a neighbour. Prakash is survived by his parents and wife. Jagadish Barma Basunia, the Trinamul MLA of Sitai, also expressed discontent. “The victim was a daily-wage earner and he used to also work as a cowherd at times.… We want a complete investigation to know how he died. There have been earlier instances of BSF personnel entering villages that are not on the border and resorting to similar atrocities. The district police should find out the truth,” Basunia said.  Later in the day, BSF sources said personnel had recovered sharp weapons and two hand grenades from the firing spot. They said a BSF jawan had suffered injuries in the “attack by the smugglers”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-102
13-11-2021||West Bengal||Bengal brings resolution to debate on BSF jurisdiction extension||The Bengal government on Friday decided to bring a resolution in the Assembly against the extension of the BSF’s jurisdiction, on a day three persons died in alleged firing by the force in Cooch Behar. The resolution is to be introduced, discussed and passed on November 16. The Union home ministry has extended the areas over which the BSF has jurisdiction in Bengal, Punjab and Assam, giving it the powers of arrest, search and seizure in places up to 50km from the Pakistan and Bangladesh borders. The stretch was 15km earlier. Bengal parliamentary affairs minister Partha Chatterjee said after a business advisory committee meeting on Friday that the resolution’s aim was to place the state’s opposition to the decision on record in the House. “This is to protest the alarming decision, which is likely to create many problems. Law and order is a state subject, according to the Constitution. The extension of the BSF’s jurisdiction has to be firmly resisted. That is the reason for this exercise,” Chatterjee said. Bengal will be the second state after Punjab to bring in a resolution against the Centre’s decision to extend the BSF’s jurisdiction. Although the Congress and the CPM do not have any representation in the Bengal Assembly, both parties have been critical of the Centre’s decision. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee had earlier asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to immediately withdraw the Union home ministry notification that extended the BSF’s jurisdiction. The Congress’s leader in the Lok Sabha, Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, on Friday said a resolution should be passed in the Bengal Assembly and a firm protest lodged by the state. The BJP’s legislature party, with 70 MLAs now in the 294-seat House, has declared its intent to participate in the discussion to oppose the resolution. Bengal BJP chief Sukanta Majumdar accused the state government of trying to unnecessarily “politicise national security”. Later in the day, Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla held a meeting with the state government and asked it to make arrangements for land to put up a wire fence along the Bangladesh border with utmost urgency.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-102
