14-11-2021||West Bengal||Mamata trying to belittle Congress that did a lot for her: Adhir||West Bengal Congress president Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury on Sunday charged Trinamool Congress supremo Mamata Banerjee with being ungrateful, claiming that for narrow political interest she is trying to belittle the grand old party which had supported her in the past. Chowdhury, also the leader of the Congress party in Lok Sabha, asserted that the Congress gave her recognition in the UPA government and supported her to become the chief minister of West Bengal in 2011. The Trinamool Congress supremo was the railway minister in the UPA government which was headed by the Congress. When she ousted the 34-year-old Left Front government a decade ago, the Congress was the TMC's alliance partner. "Do you think the Congress has no contribution to the TMC's coming to power in West Bengal in 2011? Do you think the Gandhi family had no role in your political career?" Chowdhury asked at the end of a party rally organised in Kolkata to protest against the rise in fuel prices and essential commodities. Without naming Banerjee, Chowdhury said she will not gain anything by belittling the Congress. Wondering how Banerjee dreams about ousting the Narendra Modi government from power without the Congress on her side, the Baharampur MP said, "Are you really serious about dislodging Modi, or there is more to it than meets the eye?" Chowdhury, a vociferous critic of the TMC supremo, had on October 31 also claimed that the Congress had always come out in support of her and wondered if she was working as an agent of the BJP . At Sunday's rally, he said, "After her repeated barbs at our party for the past three months, she has suddenly fallen silent after the win of the Congress in recent by-elections in some north Indian states. People of the country have shown the TMC that the Congress is getting their support." In a dig at the industrialisation drive by the West Bengal government, the senior Congress leader said, "How many investments have come from the five editions of Bengal Global Business Summit? Now they are planning another business meet and promising lakhs of youths with employment. But let me ask if hundreds have got jobs. Not a single." Referring to the assertion by Banerjee that lakhs of employment will be generated by the Deucha Pschami coal block in the state, Chowdhury said, "This is the last of your tall claims. In West Bengal, only the migrant workers industry has developed under which youths leave their home state for employment." Chowdhury has been more vocal against the TMC ever since the TMC projected her as the spearhead of the anti-BJP campaign and said only her party can take the mantle as the main adversary capable to oust Narendra Modi. The TMC's mouthpiece and national General Secretary Abhisek Banerjee had also accused the Congress of failing to give a proper fight to BJP since 2014, allowing the saffron camp to occupy the centrestage. Turning his tirade towards the prime minister, Chowdhury said Modi had promised to fight terrorism, black money and counterfeit notes by demonetisation in 2016 but none of them could be checked as the plight of the common man increased manifold.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-100
14-11-2021||West Bengal||Furore over BJP MLA’s ‘song and dance after video post||A video clip showing Kaushik Roy, the BJP MLA of Maynaguri Assembly constituency of Jalpaiguri, dancing and singing in a musical event on Friday, has appeared on social media, causing local Trinamul leaders to allege Roy was drunk. Trinamul leaders have also said that Roy’s gestures were inappropriate for an elected representative and not in consonance with Bengal’s culture. The MLA tried to defend his action. But sources said his party leaders, though publicly  tightlipped on the issue,  have expressed discontent within the BJP. On Friday night, a musical event was organised in the Dharaikuri area of Maynaguri on occasion of a local Kali Puja. The organisers had invited the MLA there. “The MLA reached there and soon, he walked up to the stage with his security personnel. Then he started dancing and sang songs. We have information that he was drunk. The manner in which he behaved does not fit with the culture of Maynaguri. Also, he is an eminent citizen of the society and such behaviour is not expected from him,” said Manoj Roy, the Trinamul president of Maynaguri block. As Roy danced, a video was shot and soon, it appeared on social media across the district. Asked, the MLA said: “I was invited to the event. I went there and sang as local people requested me. Trinamul is trying to make it an issue because of vested political interests.” However, the BJP does not seem to be impressed by its MLA’s talents. “He (Roy) should keep in mind that he is a public representative and also represents our party. In future, he should refrain from any such activity which is not desirable from an MLA,” said a senior BJP leader on condition of anonymity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-100
14-11-2021||West Bengal||Armed gang robs petrol pump in Alipurduar's Madarihat||A gang armed with daggers allegedly entered a petrol pump in Madarihat of Alipurduar district on Friday night and looted around Rs 7 lakh  in cash, injuring an employee as he tried to stop the attackers. Sources said around 10.45pm, five men with faces covered entered the pump in Madarihat Chowpathi off Asian Highway 48 near Jaldapara National Park. When employee Subhash Oraon tried to stop them, they allegedly slashed his hand. Then they threatened the other staff, opened the vault at the pump’s office, emptied out the cash from there and fled on their bikes. “We fail to understand how the criminals managed to know exactly where the vault is and that we have kept cash in it,” Tarachand Agarwala, the pump’s owner, said. A complaint has been filed with the police. Investigations are  on.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-100
14-11-2021||West Bengal||Project to include Sikkin in railway map by 2023-end||The ambitious project to include the Himalayan state of Sikkim in the Indian railway map will be completed by December 2023, Anshul Gupta, the general manager of Northeast Frontier Railway (NFR), said on Friday. Gupta, who visited Sevoke railway station, 20km from here, and is also likely to visit Sikkim, said landslides in the hills, especially during monsoon months, delayed the project to connect Sevoke with Rangpo town on the Bengal-Sikkim border.  Land acquisition snags were another reason, he added. “But work is in progress at full swing and we hope to finish it in a couple of years’ time,” Gupta said. Sources in NFR said two major mishaps this monsoon halted work on the project for some time. On June 17, a boulder killed two workers. On July 30, a swollen rivulet flooded one of the tunnels and killed two more workers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-100
14-11-2021||West Bengal||Cousins swept away while bathing in Hooghly||Two cousins aged 21 were swept away while they were bathing in the Hooghly in Nadia's Chakdah on Saturday morning. While divers engaged by the district administration found the body of Riya Guha, a second-year college student, the body of her cousin Arpita Guha could not be traced till late Saturday evening. Sources said the accident took place when Riya and Arpita were performing rites in connection with the death of their grandfather. The girls had gone to the river in the Mukundanagar area. Around 9.30am, Riya reportedly got sucked into a dead hole of the river. Arpita tried to save her and slipped, eyewitnesses said. “The current was swift and the two girls vanished within a few seconds," a local resident said. Tapan Guha, the girls’ uncle, said: “We all came for the holy bath to be done before Sunday’s scheduled shraddh ceremony.” Local sources said the stretch of the river was comparatively deep owing to a nearby water-lifting station of the PHE.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-100
14-11-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal logs 872 new infections, 828 recoveries||Bengal on Saturday reported 872 new Covid-19 infections, 828 recoveries and 13 deaths, resulting in a rise by 31 in its total of active cases to 8,031. Calcutta reported 217 new infections and three deaths. North 24-Parganas reported 151 new infections and two deaths. A minister said new infections reported on Saturday indicated people who got infected between November 4 (Kali Puja) to November 8.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-100
14-11-2021||West Bengal||‘Unity’ sari storm on Twitter, PM faith in spirit questioned||Phulia weaver Biren Kumar Basak’s Saturday morning started with Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeting a picture of them together.  But the high did not last.  Basak, 70, had gifted Modi a handwoven Jamdani sari depicting Modi engaging with people symbolising India’s unity in diversity, including a man wearing a skull cap.  But soon, many netizens questioned  the Prime Minister’s faith in the spirit of India’s unity in diversity.  Basak was among the 119 Padma Shri award recipients this year. He handed the sari to Modi at the tea party that followed the award ceremony at the Ashok Hall of the Rastrapati Bhavan earlier this week. At 8.51am on Saturday, Modi tweeted the picture, adding “During the interaction with the Padma Awardees, he presented something to me which I greatly cherish.” While many praised the tweet, many others attacked Modi. Netizen Dibyendu Pal tweeted: “The people of West Bengal understand the sentiments of all religious communities so they have drawn this picture irrespective of Hindu-Muslim but you don’t understand that...” Netizen Shiva tweeted: “Hopefully u wont judge people who are wearing a skull cap in the image…The diversity and unity of India needs to be accepted and cherished and it is indeed a great work from Biren Kumar...” A post by Twitter handle “Shri” flayed the Prime Minister for his “divisive acts”. Many recalled Modi’s infamous statement of 2019 referring to CAA protesters, when he had said those indulging in violence “can be identified by their clothes”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-101
14-11-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul worker allegedly thrashed in Tripura capital||A Trinamul worker  in Tripura capital Agartala was allegedly assaulted by BJP supporters on Thursday night, within 48 hours of the Supreme Court ordering the Biplab Deb government to take steps to ensure that no political party is prevented from “pursuing its electoral rights” and “from campaigning in a peaceful and orderly manner” ahead of civic polls. Trinamul accused the ruling BJP state government of disregarding the apex court  order and questioned Tripura police and the National Human Rights Commission how the assault took place. Trinamul alleged its party worker Shekhar Debbarma, 36, noticed some youths taking out Trinamul’s flags put up in ward 11 of Agartala Municipal Corporation late on Thursday. When he protested, the youths left, but a group came on bikes and punched and kicked him. “His right eye is injured, he is under treatment at GB Hospital,” Trinamul leader Rajib Banerjee, in Tripura to oversee party activities, said.  BJP denied the charge. “Our party had nothing to do with it. Police are probing the incident and will trace the culprits,” said a senior BJP Tripura leader.  In Tripura, polls would be held in 20 civic bodies on November 25. There are 334 seats. Trinamul has fielded candidates in 124 seats.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-101
14-11-2021||West Bengal||7 jumbo calves in the herd of 49 adults slow down exit||Seven jumbo calves,  among the herd of 49 elephants roaming East Burdwan’s Ausgram since the past couple of days, can’t keep pace with elders of the group, a challenge for foresters to drive away the animals back to the forests in Bankura. The foresters, however, have managed to get the herd to move into the Bhalki forest area and decided to adopt a “go-slow” approach as the calves can’t walk as fast as other elephants. “There are calves in the herd and so the process to drive them towards Bankura is slow. We tried to drive them away till early Saturday morning but the calves can’t move as fast. We will try again on Saturday night,” said Nisha Goswami, the divisional forest officer of East Burdwan. A herd of 49 elephants, including seven calves, ravaged paddy farms in parts of East Burdwan on Thursday after entering the district through an unorthodox route, making it difficult for foresters to restrain them. Sources said in the past three days the animals had damaged at least  1,000 acres of paddy fields on their way, which made farmers angry. Foresters said there were at least three calves who were very young.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-101
14-11-2021||West Bengal||Hardly any takers  for BSF narrative of attack||Residents of Chamta, a village located under Sitai police station of Cooch Behar district near the India-Bangladesh border, on Saturday mourned the death of Prakash Barman, who died early on Friday morning in alleged firing by the BSF, and blamed the men in uniform. A group of cattle smugglers had attacked a patrolling team which made them fire in self-defence, BSF had claimed. There were hardly any takers for the BSF narrative at the village as they recalled a jovial young man, who worked hard to run his family of aged mother, wife and two children. “He was the sole earning member. The family members are yet to recover from the shock and have no inkling as to how they will manage to earn a square meal,” said a villager. Sources said on Saturday, a team from the Sitai block administration visited his house and collected detailed information about the family.  “A report would be sent to the district administration. There are indications that the state might extend some help to the family that is in crisis,” said an official.  Senior Trinamul leaders, who have assured that they are with the bereaved family, echoed the villagers' sentiment and criticised the BSF. “The BSF could have used non-lethal weapons. It is unfortunate that Prakash Barman, who was a daily-rated worker, was hit on his head. We want a comprehensive investigation and those behind this unnecessary firing should face legal actions," said veteran party leader Rabindranath Ghosh. Police, who are probing the case, said no one has turned up to claim the other two bodies. Both these bodies were found from beyond the fences and the deceased are suspected to be Bangladeshi residents. “We are gathering information from different sources. The investigators will also speak with BSF officials in due course,” said a senior police officer.   Bangladeshi arrests BSF troops posted across north Bengal arrested two Bangladeshi nationals in the past 24 hours from different locations of the region. On Thursday, a team of 195 battalion of the force deployed at BOP Greengach on Indo-Bangla border in Jalpaiguri district apprehended Md Alamin Hussain, a resident of Panchagarh district of Bangladesh while he was allegedly trying to breach the border fences to smuggle cattle. In another case, BSF men of 137 battalion arrested Sunima Haldar, who is from Bogura district of the neighbouring country, on Friday. She allegedly infiltrated into India to meet a relative.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-101
14-11-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul's Goa hopes rest on  Luizinho Falerio, Mahua Moitra||Trinamul on Saturday nominated former Goa chief minister Luizinho Falerio as its candidate for Rajya Sabha polls scheduled on November 29 and appointed its Krishnanagar MP Mahua Moitra as its party’s Goa unit in charge, both with an eye on the Assembly polls to the western state. Falerio will file his nomination next Tuesday for the seat vacated by Trinamul leader Arpita Ghosh. He is currently a vice-president of the party. “We are extremely pleased to nominate Luizinho Falerio to the Upper House of the Parliament... the party tweeted at 11:33 am on Saturday. A press statement signed by Trinamul national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee read: “Hon’ble Chairperson Smt. Mamata Banerjee looks forward to a brighter future for Goa, with All India Trinamul Congress paving the way with courage and wisdom.... The Hon’ble Chairperson is pleased to appoint Smt. Mahua Moitra, (Hon’ble MP, Krishnanagar Lok Sabha) as the State in-charge of AITC Goa unit with immediate effect.” Trinamul had earlier nominated Susmita Dev to a vacant seat in the upper house. Dev, a former Congress MP from the Silchar Assembly segment, won the polls. She is one of Mamata’s most important foot soldiers in Tripura. Goa and Tripura are the two states being eyed by Trinamul after it crushed the BJP in the Bengal Assembly polls. Falerio, in Calcutta on Saturday to discuss the party’s future in the coastal state, tweeted his thanks to the party for his nomination.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-101
14-11-2021||West Bengal||Cowherds jittery: Friday firing, increase of  BSF ambit fuel fears ||Fifty-year-old Saji Mian, a resident of Dewanhat in Cooch Behar-I block, is contemplating a change in his vocation of cow herding because of the Centre’s decision to increase jurisdiction of the Border Security Force (BSF) from 15km to 50km within Indian territory from the international border. For over 30 years, Saji, popularly known as “Hello Dangowal” among cow traders of Cooch Behar, has been making a living by working as a “dangowal” (cowherd in Rajbanshi language). Rahidul Pramanik, who is in the same occupation, said yesterday’s incident in which three people were killed in alleged firing by BSF jawans has proven that carrying on with the vocation would be easier said than done. “Prakash Barman, who died yesterday (Friday), was a cowherd. We are shocked to hear that he was gunned down. His death was the most discussed topic in the market (at Dodearhat) today (Saturday). Many of us are panicky, especially because we are hearing that the BSF can act in areas 40-50km away from the border,” he said. In Cooch Behar, there are around 1,000 such cowherds, who earn their living by taking cows from rural markets to the buyers’ places or from the homes of sellers to rural cattle markets. “Cow traders and villagers in general buy cows in the markets. We take cows from them and walk by foot for kilometres, guide the herd and eventually, deliver cows one by one at their home. For every cow, we make Rs 200 to Rs 300,” said Saji. In Cooch Behar, there are over 10 markets for weekly cattle trade. On Saturday, Saji, along with a number of other cowherds, were spotted in such a market in Dodearhat in Cooch Behar-II block. He spoke to some buyers and eventually walked out of the market, herding three cows. “Most of the days when we go to bordering villages to bring or deliver cows, we are stopped and questioned by the BSF men. I have heard that the BSF can now challenge us even here, which is not near the border, I feel that eventually, I would have to change my occupation because if the cattle is seized (by the BSF), I will have to compensate the buyer,” said Saji. The cowherds said even before the Centre’s notification to increase the BSF’s jurisdiction, they were already facing tough times. Some cow traders nowadays use pick-up vans and trucks to carry cattle and do not require the services of the cowherds. “This has already affected our earnings and now, this new decision (of  the BSF’s jurisdiction) is something we guess will only add to our crisis,” said Biswanath Das, another cowherd.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-101
