15-11-2021||West Bengal||Abhishek wants Babul Supriyo as Trinamul's mayor face||The highrise on Camac Street is gradually overshadowing the single-storeyed structure at Kalighat in Bengal’s politics but to what extent will emerge in the approaching month’s civic polls in Calcutta and Howrah. Trinamul’s all-India general secretary and de facto Number Two in the party Abhishek Banerjee is said to have thrown his weight behind Babul Supriyo, Trinamul’s prize catch this year from the saffron camp, as the mayoral face for the prestigious Calcutta Municipal Corporation. Abhishek and his team have shortlisted three wards for Supriyo to contest, all in South Calcutta,  one of which went to the BJP in 2015. While the party is, undoubtedly, at its peak electorally, a crisis of sorts is brewing within the Trinamul as Abhishek Banerjee’s footprints get bigger with each passing day. The only person in the party who is certain about her position is chief minister Mamata Banerjee. Everything else in the party is decided by the twice-elected Diamond Harbour MP. A clear line of demarcation between the old guard and the new leadership is emerging. Elections to the Calcutta and Howrah civic bodies would be the first litmus test of Abhishek as the party’s all India general secretary, who gets to decide on the nominees for the 144 wards in Calcutta and 66 on the other side of the river Hooghly. And at this moment Abhishek is in favour of having Supriyo, who joined the Trinamul two months ago, as the first citizen of Calcutta, which has seen the likes of Chittaranjan Das, Subhas Chandra Bose, Dr Bidhan Chandra Roy in pre-Independence days. Decades down the line three mayors from the same Calcutta Municipal Corporation from the same party were held behind bars in connection with a bribery case. The late Subrata Mukherjee, minister Firhad Hakim and nowhere-man Sovan Chatterjee all had adorned the post as Mamata’s choice. Charges of corruption had smeared all three. Just before the Assembly polls this summer Abhishek was in favour of dropping some of the ministers, especially the tainted ones. It was on Abhishek’s prodding that Mamata loyalists like Sonali Guha were denied a ticket this time and they promptly joined the BJP. “Abhishek’s approach in selection of candidates is that they should have a clean image. He also wants to put an end to the family-oriented politics of the corporation. Next of kin of a minister or MLA will not automatically get to test their political skills via the corporation,” said a Trinamul source. “Abhishek is also not in favour of MLAs continuing as councillors.” Political strategy agency I-PAC has submitted a list of two to three candidates from each of the 144 wards to Abhishek, among whom one would be declared candidate once the notification is issued. In 2015, when the last CMC polls were held, Trinamul had won 123 out of the 144 wards. Four years later, comparative analysis of booth-wise results of the Lok Sabha polls revealed BJP was leading in 50 of the Trinamul-run wards in the CMC, including Mamata’s backyard ward 73. Many feel Mamata deliberately delayed holding  civic polls till her electoral position improved in Calcutta and the rest of the state. Since his induction into the Trinamul, Supriyo has been lying low especially after he resigned as Lok Sabha MP from Asansol. His name was not considered for either inclusion in the state cabinet or the vacant Rajya Sabha seat which went to Goa’s ex-Congressman Luizinho Faleiro. “It is unlikely that someone of Babul’s stature would be left out of the scheme of things for long. CMC would be the right place to utilise him,” said a senior Trinamul leader. That the last Mayor and present chairman of board of administrators in the CMC, Firhad Hakim, had fallen out of favour was evident when the urban development portfolio was handed to Chandrima Bhattacharya. Hakim’s voice was clearly not to be heard in civic matters. “Bobby (Hakim’s nickname) is a councillor and was running the show during the Covid pandemic, where the civic body played a critical role. That is why he was re-appointed as chairman of administrator. His days in the CMC are clearly numbered if Abhishek has his way,” said a Trinamul source. According to Trinamul insiders, Hakim has placed a request with Mamata to relieve him from his ministerial responsibilities but allow him to remain in the Calcutta Municipal Corporation. In the cabinet, Hakim is in charge of transport and housing portfolios. “Bobby feels unlike the state government the CMC is free from Abhishek. What he does not realise is that it is just a matter of time. CMC is now being run by administrators. Once the councillors return, Abhishek will ensure that he controls the board,” said a Trinamul source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-99
15-11-2021||West Bengal||Bengal: Man found dead in Bhagabanpur, BJP blames TMC||A 35-year-old man was found dead in West Bengal's Purba Medinipur district, police said on Monday. The body of Bhaskar Bera was found on the side of a road in Bhagabanpur area of the district on Sunday morning, they said. The BJP claimed him to be a party worker who was allegedly beaten to death by TMC supporters, a charge rubbished by the ruling side. Bera was last seen in a procession for the immersion of Jagaddhatri idol in the area on Saturday night, police said. An investigation is underway to piece together the chain of events that led to the death, a police officer said. BJP national vice-president Dilip Ghosh alleged that Bera was beaten to death by TMC supporters. "TMC is yet to come to terms with the BJP's win in the Bhagabanpur assembly seat. It wants to ensure that BJP stops its political activities in the area," he said. Ghosh claimed that 80 BJP workers were killed in political violence after the results of the assembly elections were declared on May 2. TMC spokesperson Kunal Ghosh claimed that his party was in no way involved with the death. "We want a thorough probe into the incident," he said. A district TMC leader claimed Bera was drunk during the procession and may have died due to complications arising out of consuming too much liquor.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-99
15-11-2021||West Bengal||East Midnapore: BJP worker killed, party blames TMC||A BJP worker in East Midnapore’s Bhagabanpur was allegedly murdered by Trinamul Congress-backed goons, the second such incident in eight days. The bloodied body of Bhaskar Bera, 45, last seen at a local puja on Saturday night, was recovered from the roadside on Sunday. Bera was a BJP worker of the local booth 114 of the Basudebberiya area in Bhagabanpur. “Trinamul Congress has become ferocious after losing the Bhagabanpur Assembly seat. Bhaskar was participating in the immersion programme of a local puja on Saturday night. He was abducted and then murdered. A lot of blood was lost from his legs,” said Anup Chakraborty, the chief of BJP’s Contai organisational district. On November 6, on the night of Bhai Phonta, another BJP worker of Bhagabanpur area, Chandan Maity, was allegedly abducted from his home and murdered by Trinamul-backed goons. Tapas Dalapati, a local Trinamul leader was arrested as an accused in this incident. The local Trinamul leadership, however, dismissed the allegations regarding Bera's death. Trinamul’s Mamud Hossain said: “There is no political unrest in that area. The police will probe the incident and find out the truth for all to know." Contai’s BJP workers blocked the Heria and Contai areas of National Highway 116B — which connects Calcutta and Digha — to protest Bera’s alleged murder. BJP state chief Sukanta Majumdar who was in Bhagabanpur to protest the alleged murder of Maity on Saturday, said: “It only proves there is no democracy in Bengal, rather it is being raped under the leadership of Mamata Banerjee everytime.” Sources in the BJP said that the local leadership has asked its workers to not venture out during the night.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-99
15-11-2021||West Bengal||Municipal polls: BJP unable to find candidates, cash crunch a hurdle||The BJP is facing difficulties in finding candidates for the upcoming polls to the Calcutta and Howrah municipal corporations and 110 other civic bodies across Bengal, sources in the party said. The disinterest among BJP leaders to contest the civic polls comes amid murmurs of a possible cash squeeze from Delhi for the party’s Bengal unit because of the poor show in the Assembly elections and the subsequent bypolls. Elections to the Calcutta and Howrah municipal corporations are scheduled to be held on December 19. Polls to around 110 other civic bodies are likely to be held early next year.  A senior BJP leader said if the party couldn’t put up candidates in all seats, it would be another face loss after the Assembly poll debacle. “We need around 3,000 to 4,000 people who would contest the polls and we need that fast. The Trinamul Congress’s probable candidates are already in campaign mode. Our people need to establish their identity in their localities,” the BJP leader said. “However, unlike the Assembly polls where the party received multiple applications from aspiring candidates for a seat, this time, it is the opposite as there is hardly any interest among workers for nomination.” In the run up to the Assembly polls, application drop boxes were put up at the BJP’s two offices as thousands of people were queuing up seeking nomination. “It was a problem of plenty then.… Now, we are not getting people,” another source said. According to a veteran BJP councillor, one of the major reasons behind the lack of interest is cash crunch with the state BJP after the splurge it made during the Assembly polls. “It has been unofficially conveyed that the party’s central unit will not be financing civic poll campaigning.… The cost of campaigning in several wards in Central Calcutta will be more than half a crore rupees. Who will spend that money?” asked the veteran. “These days, elections are all about money power and more so in the case of civic polls, which require voter management at micro level,” said a BJP source. This person then added that the dominant view in the party is that Trinamul will sweep the civic polls in Calcutta, Howrah and other urban areas. “If there is a possibility of victory, people spend from their pockets…. But when defeat is almost certain, who will waste money?” asked the source. Another BJP state functionary, who had unsuccessfully contested the civic polls in 2015, said in the past few years, there was a possibility that the party would win a few wards. BJP leaders officially denied that the party was facing issues in zeroing in on candidates for the civic polls. Pratap Banerjee, a state BJP vice-president, said: “We have already received several applications from people who want to contest the civic polls. We have asked them to contact their respective organisational districts.” But Banerjee did admit that the possibility of Delhi funding the candidates for the civic polls was thin.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-99
15-11-2021||West Bengal||1,000  workers face job cuts, up in arms against state govt||The imminent phasing-out of nearly 1,000 contractual workers hired through private agencies by the state government for training at school laboratories triggered a picket outside the vocational department office in East Midnapore’s Tamluk on Sunday. According to a letter dated October 27 and addressed to the heads of charitable trusts and private academies, the state director of vocational education and training instructed the “discontinuation of additional manpower” with immediate effect. Sources said the fallout would hurt most vocational  teachers and lab workers in the state who have been drawing  stipends ranging from  Rs 7,000 to Rs 20,000 a month. “We have been working in since 2013, and even during the pandemic lockdown, online. So why are we being laid off without any explanation?” asked lab assistant Subhadip Bhowmick, who was among a handful of protesters who wore blindfolds to highlight their plight, at the site. All these workers are graduates of the National Skills Qualifications Framework (NSQF), a competency-based framework implemented in 2013 which organises qualifications according to levels of knowledge, skills and aptitude. “These levels, graded from 1 to 10 are defined in terms of learning outcomes which the learner must possess regardless of whether they are obtained through formal, non-formal or informal learning,” said a source at the state vocational department. “The Centre had laid out this scheme of employment for us almost a decade ago. We had thought our contracts would be secure in their renewals, but this has not turned out to be the case. Now the government is laying us off like any other private concern,” added another protester. Asked, vocational department sources explained that  workforce was being trimmed by around 66 per cent to do away with redundancies.  Bengal minister in charge of the department of technical education, Humayun Kabir, explained that these contractual employees had been appointed in schools as part of a central government scheme through private agencies on a short-term basis. Explaining the job loss, he said: “Recently the Centre has decided to discontinue the posts of lab assistants. It  also decided to have one vocational trainer per school instead of two. This prompted the education department to withdraw excess manpower from schools. This has led to job loss. The stage government has no role in it. We are trying to see if those who have lost jobs can be adjusted elsewhere.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-99
15-11-2021||West Bengal||Bengal: 875 new  infections, active cases rise by 31||Bengal on Sunday reported 875 new Covid-19 infections, 837 recoveries and seven deaths, with a rise by 31 in its active cases to 8,062. In 50 days since Bengal snapped out of a 97-day fall in active cases or number of Covid patients under treatment, there has been a net rise of 388 in active cases. Calcutta reported 238 new infections and two deaths on Sunday. A minister said new cases reported on Sunday indicated people infected between November 5 (the day after Kali Puja) and November 9.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-99
15-11-2021||West Bengal||Bullets puncture girl’s dream B'Day gift of bicycle from father||Ten-year-old Diya Das, who celebrated her birthday two days ago, curled up against her mother Suparna’s lap on Sunday morning, trying to figure out the hubbub inside their modest home in Murshidabad’s Kirtipur.  On Friday, her father Shyamal had called her up to wish her on her birthday and had promised her a new bicycle when he came home on leave next time, tentatively in February. Less than a day later, Shyamal, 32, was among seven persons gunned down in Manipur’s Imphal during a joint ambush launched by the People's Liberation Army and the Manipur Naga People’s Front against a convoy of the Assam Rifles paramilitary force.  One of the victims, the son of late Col Viplav Tripathi, was younger than Diya. “I don’t know what to tell.her. She doesn’t seem to understand that her father will not be coming home... She is asking me who will get her a bicycle," said Suparna, 28, Shyamal’s wife. Shyamal was a constable of the Assam Rifles who joined the force in 2009 and had been serving as Col Tripathi’s driver and guard. He was at the wheel when the rain of bullets claimed the lives of the colonel's family and four paramilitary personnel, including Shyamal, on Saturday morning. Suparna said that she answered the phone around 8pm on Saturday to hear an unknown voice asking in Hindi for Shyamal’s father.  “Shyamal’s parents are ailing for years. And they can’t understand Hindi. So I was informed of the ambush. Then we turned on the news,” said Suparna, maintaining composure before a flood of visitors to her yet-unfinished home, which Shyamal had been building in installments. “Shyamal lost his brother in a motor accident years ago. He was the only breadwinner,” she added. Shyamal's body will reach Panagarh on Sunday night, sources said. Buddhadeb Das, his brother-in-law, said he could not get over the cruel tist of fate: “The colonel had been making arrangements so that Shyamal could be posted to Bengal from next year and be around during his daughter’s formative schooling years,” Das said. “Shyamal was from a very poor background and worked hard to rise out of his circumstances. He wanted the best for his family.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-99
15-11-2021||West Bengal||Thapa’s party constitutes 17-member GTA poll panel||The Anit Thapa led Bharatiya Gorkha Prajatantrik Morcha (BGPM) has formed a 17-member election committee to fight the forthcoming Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA) elections while rivals Gorkha National Liberation Front  have said they would “protest” if GTA election dates are announced. A BGPM leader said that the party’s “election coordination committee” has been formed. Tilak Chand Roka, a former GTA Sabha member, has been appointed as chief coordinator. “The committee includes leaders from across the hills and they will look into all aspects of the party’s preparedness for the upcoming GTA elections,” said a BGPM leader. Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee during an administrative meeting in Kurseong on October 26 had said that elections to the GTA, which are due since 2017, would be held after the revision of electoral rolls are completed. As that process will be completed on January 5, theBGPM leaders are hoping that elections would be announced immediately afterwards. Thapa has aligned his party with Mamata’s Trinamul. While the Thapa-led party is preparing for elections, the GNLF is gearing up for protests. The GNLF is an ally of the BJP in the hills. “The majority of the hill people have rejected the GTA as the entity cannot fulfil the aspirations of the hill people. If the GTA election dates are announced we will stage democratic protests against the decision,” said Sandeep Limbu, general secretary, GNLF Darjeeling branch committee. The GNLF leader further said that the state government should not hold GTA elections to maintain peace in the hills. “The state government talks about peace in the hills. To maintain peace, GTA  elections should not be held as people would not be happy with the decision,” said Limbu. Limbu said that the decision to hold the GTA elections might be a move to derail the tripartite meeting which the Centre had recently convened to find “a permanent political solution” for the hill people. “When talks are being held on a permanent political solution for the region, it is unfortunate that some parties want election to the GTA,” said Limbu.  The GNLF has also filed a case in Calcutta High Court challenging the constitutional validity of the GTA Act in 2012. The BJP promised a “permanent political solution” for Darjeeling region in its 2019 Lok Sabha poll manifesto, although the exact solution has not been clearly defined. In October this year, Union home minister Amit Shah convened a tripartite meeting involving BJP legislators from the region as well as leader of BJP’s allies in the hills. However, legislators of other parties from the region were not invited to the meeting. The definition of a permanent political solution is  still not clear, though some political entities in the hills are hoping it means statehood. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee, on her part, also promised to work out a “permanent political solution” for the hills. Her party, however, has always been opposed to further division of Bengal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-100
15-11-2021||West Bengal||Train with European-style luxury coach to run daily||Demand for tickets to the vistadome coach on the train along the Dooars between New Jalpaiguri and Alipurduar Junction has made authorities of the Northeast Frontier Railway (NFR) decide to run the train every day and add one more vistadome coach to it. So far, the service was available for three days in a week. From November 22, the the train, named Vistadome Tourist Express, will run daily. The train departs in the morning from New Jalpaiguri (NJP), and reaches Alipurduar Junction in the afternoon. It departs from there after an hour or so and arrives at NJP in the evening. “The demand for tickets is steady which indicates that the ride is gaining popularity among tourists. That is why it has been decided that from November 22, the train will run between NJP and Alipurduar Junction every day,” said Dilip Kumar Singh, the divisional railway manager of the Alipurduar division of NFR. “Also, one more vistadome coach will be added to the train,”he added. There are 42 seats in each  vistadome coach, NFR sources said. The decision to increase the frequency of the train has been welcomed by tourism stakeholders in the Dooars. “It is a major development and we feel this train service will increase the inflow of tourists across the Dooars, especially in eastern Dooars as people can enjoy the beauty of the route dotted with tea estates, rivers, hillocks and stretches of forests. We thank the railways for making it a daily service,” said Biswajit Saha, secretary, Madarihat Lodge Owners’ Association. From August 28, NFR had introduced the vistadome service on the route. Along with the vistadome coach, two other second class chair car coaches were attached in the train that moves through the pristine beauty of the Dooars. At the stations, various arrangements were made for the entertainment of passengers. While there are selfie zones in some stations, in other places they can sip tea and enjoy the performances of dance troupes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-100
15-11-2021||West Bengal||INTTUC plans to merge tea unions within six months||Bengal president of the INTTUC, the trade union of the Trinamul Congress, said on Sunday that all unions of tea garden workers which are affiliated to the INTTUC would be merged within six months. In Alipurduar, the INTTUC convened a meeting on Sunday to felicitate Ritabrata Banerjee who was elevated to the post of the state president of the trade union. “There is confusion among tea plantation workers because of the existence of multiple trade unions of Trinamul. I clearly mentioned today that in any industry, there would be only one union affiliated to the INTTUC. All these unions would be merged in the next six months and a single union will be floated in the tea sector. Necessary instructions have been passed on to trade union leaders in north Bengal in this regard,” Banerjee said after the meeting. After Trinamul had come to power in Bengal in 2011, party leaders who are based in tea gardens or were associated with trade union movements earlier started forming tea trade unions on their own, both in the Terai and the Dooars. ‘Even today, there are three or four unions, like the Cha Bagan Trinamul Congress Mazdoor Union, Terai Dooars Plantation Workers Union and the Trinamul Tea Plantation Workers’ Union. “Presence of trade unions is the key reason for our inability to consolidate support in tea gardens. Even our party supremo had mentioned this issue time and again but still, the leaders who head these unions are not ready to work together,” said a senior Trinamul leader. At Sunday’s meeting, Banerjee also made it clear that once the common union was floated, any Trinamul leader found working under the banner of other unions in the tea sector would face action. The decision, political observers said, has been made in view of the rural polls due to be held in less than two years. Also, elections to the Siliguri Mahakuma Parishad are likely to be held next year. Tea garden population’s support determines the fate of rural bodies in four districts of north Bengal. Asked about the INTTUC’s plan to revive the support base in Alipurduar district where the BJP won all five Assembly seats, Banerjee said: “It is true that we could not win any seat. However, if we compare the results, it would be found that in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, Trinamul had secured lead only in one of the 67 tea estates in the district. Our party could gain the lead in 30 gardens in the Assembly elections held earlier this year.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-100
15-11-2021||West Bengal||2 wild jumbos visit Jalpaiguri town, onlookers enjoy march  ||A unique drama unfolded in Jalpaiguri town early on Sunday  morning as two wild elephants   walked inside the town and strayed into different localities. This is the first time in recent years that wild elephants have been sighted in the town, which has the Baikunthapur forest in its fringes. As the news spread, thousands of curious residents hit the streets to catch a glimpse of the wild elephants, making it tough for foresters and the police to steer the animals back to the forest. Till late Sunday evening, both the elephants were seen standing in a graveyard located in Pabitranagar Colony on the bank of the Karala river that flows through the town. Foresters and police officials are on the spot and monitoring their movement. The elephants are suspected to have come out of the Baikunthapur forest, around 20km away from the town. “It seems they have walked along the right banks of the Teesta river and reached the town,” said a forest official. Around 3am, some policemen posted at the Biswa Bangla Krirangan, a sports complex-turned-Covid hospital, and some bystanders first spotted the wild elephants strolling on the road. Soon, this information was passed to Kotwali police who in turn informed foresters. The foresters also called up the wildlife squad posted at Ramsai near Maynaguri. A search was launched to locate the wild elephants. The elephants stayed near the hospital for some time and then retreated. They crossed the Karala river again and entered a graveyard. Finding bushes and plants there, they started munching on them.. By afternoon, as more and more people started coming to this spot as well, foresters and police officers decided to wait till dusk. “We have to steer the elephants back to the forest which is some 20kmaway. If we do it during the day, there is always the risk of injury or casualty as thousands of people live along the route. We are keeping watch on the movement of the wild elephants,” said Mridul Kumar, divisional forest officer of Jalpaiguri division. With the crowd swelling by the minute, policemen were deputed in adjoining areas. Also, entry of people was restricted to a distance of 300 metres from the graveyard. By afternoon, the administration had issued prohibitory orders at the site. Policemen even had to wield batons and chase people who swarmed in front of Ananda Chandra College,  near the graveyard, for a peek at the elephants. “Nine teams of the state forest department are working together. We are making public announcements to avert any untoward incident. Residents should be alert and stay safe,” said Moumita Godara Basu, the district magistrate. Foresters are bursting sound crackers so that the elephants start moving out of the town, said sources late on Sunday evening. After about an hour, a team of foresters spotted the wild elephants near the private bus stand in Netajipara. Though the team tried to steer the elephants out of the town, the duo walked into the Karala river, crossed it, and reached near the super-specialty hospital in TB Hospitalpara, another locality of the town. Later in the morning, it was found that while entering the town, the elephants had damaged the entrance of the land and land reforms department’s office of Jalpaiguri Sadar block near the BDO office. “Initially, we felt some criminals had tried to break the gate. Later we realised that this was the handiwork of the two wild elephants who have entered our town,” Dinesh Dutta, a resident, said. As the day rolled on, many residents hit the streets to catch a glimpse, as well as shoot pictures and videos. “I never heard in my life that wild elephants entered our town so I didn’t want to miss the chance to see them,” said Pinaki Das, a youth cycling to reach  the super-specialty hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-100
