16-11-2021||West Bengal||Bengal passes resolution against extension of BSF jurisdiction||The West Bengal Assembly on Tuesday passed a resolution against the Centre's decision to extend BSF's jurisdiction, amid opposition by BJP legislators. West Bengal, which is governed by the Trinamool Congress, became the second state after Congress-ruled Punjab, where such a resolution has been tabled and passed. Parliamentary Affairs Minister Partha Chatterjee moved the resolution under Rule 169 of the House's Procedures of Conduct of Business. It was passed with 112 voting in favour of it and 63 opposing it. The resolution said the House believed that increasing the BSF's jurisdiction was against the country's federal structure, as law and order is a State subject. It stated that the notification exceeded the provision of the BSF Act and that it would lead to coordination issues between the State police and the BSF. ''We demand that this decision be withdrawn immediately as enhancing the area of jurisdiction of the BSF is a direct attack on the country's federal structure,'' he said. ''We have nothing against the BSF as a force, there are many good officers, but at the same time, there are others who torture people residing near the border. This is an attempt by the Centre to control a portion of the state,'' Chatterjee said. The BJP-led central government recently amended the BSF Act to authorise the force to undertake search, seizure and arrest within a larger 50 km stretch, instead of 15 km, from the international border in Punjab, West Bengal and Assam. Chatterjee wondered if the BSF is unable to control infiltration and illegal activities within 15 kilometres, how is it possible that it will ''succeed in doing it within 50 kilometres,'' Unruly scenes were witnessed in the House after TMC MLA Udayan Guha, during his speech, accused some BSF personnel of touching women inappropriately in border areas in the name of frisking. ''We have seen the kind of atrocities that BSF perpetrates on people. A child who has witnessed his mother being touched inappropriately under the garb of frisking, when she returns from the field, can never be patriotic, no matter how many times you chant 'Bharat Mata ki Jai' in front of him. These incidents give birth to anti-social elements,'' he said on the floor of the House. Guha's remark drew a sharp reaction from the BJP, which termed it an ''insult to the security forces.'' BJP MLAs opposed the remark and demanded that it be expunged. Speaker Biman Banerjee, however, refrained from expunging Guha's comment. ''Such comments are not only unacceptable but also an insult to our security forces. Security forces are the pride of our nation. These remarks reflect the mindset of TMC MLAs,'' BJP legislator Sreerupa Mitra Chowdhury said. After BJP MLA Mihir Goswami objected to his comments, Guha said one of his (Goswami's) leg has been fractured the second one too will be broken. The Speaker condemned the statement and asked both the MLAs to behave. Reacting to Guha's accusation, BSF ADG Y B Khurania later said BSF 'mahila praharis' (women guards) are deployed in border areas for frisking women. ''Such comments are very demoralising for the force. Around 2397 Mahila praharis are there under the Eastern Command for frisking women at the gates,'' he said. The force has zero tolerance towards such acts as told by the MLA, the BSF official said. Leader of the Opposition Suvendu Adhikari said the language used against a force like the BSF is unacceptable. ''When the Union government tries to withdraw central forces from Junglemahal, the state government opposes the move. And now, the same government is opposing the enhancement of BSF's jurisdiction. Under this new rule (jurisdiction extension), there is no question of conflict between the state police and the BSF,'' Adhikari stated. He said the BJP legislative party would request the Centre to extend the BSF's jurisdiction up to 80 KM. Adhikari alleged that terrorists are entering the state using the porous border. ''Our Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee had written a letter to the Prime Minister on the issue. Let us wait for its outcome. Till then, this resolution should be put on hold. Secondly, the resolution passed under rule 169 doesn't have any legal validity,'' he said. The opposition Congress and the Left Front, which doesn't have any representation in the state assembly, have also opposed the move to increase the BSF's jurisdiction. In separate letters to Banerjee, Left Front chairman Biman Bose and state Congress president Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury urged her to oppose the Centre's decision.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-97
16-11-2021||West Bengal||Mamata delivers the promised ‘Duare Ration’ scheme||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday inaugurated the 'Duare Ration' (Ration at doorstep) scheme, saying it will benefit around 10 crore of people of the state. Banerjee said her government has decided to enhance the commission for ration dealers from Rs 75 to Rs 150 per quintal of foodgrain. "This Duare Ration scheme will help 10 crore people of the state. I will request all the ration dealers to make it a success.... Many states are trying to emulate schemes of West Bengal," she said while flagging off the programme at the Netaji Indoor Stadium in Kolkata. Banerjee had announced the scheme, under which dealers would deliver ration at the doorstep of the beneficiaries, before the assembly elections held in March-April this year. She said the government would provide around 21,000 ration dealers with financial assistance of Rs one lakh each to purchase vehicles for delivering ration to people in this way. She requested the ration dealers not go move court objecting to the plan. A section of dealers had moved the Calcutta High Court against the scheme but their plea was junked. At the programme, Banerjee also inaugurated a WhatsApp chatbot for the Food and Supplies Department of the state government and a mobile application, 'Khadya Sathi: Amar Ration Mobile App' to help people apply for ration cards and get information about how to do it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-97
16-11-2021||West Bengal||Birsa Munda birth anniversary: Govt goes all-out to woo adivasis ||The birth anniversary of tribal icon Birsa Munda was celebrated on Monday with much fanfare at several villages in Birbhum, where the Deocha-Pachami coal mine project will come up, as part of the Bengal government and the Trinamul Congress’s attempt to woo adivasis and build a consensus on the project which the ruling party thinks will change the economic landscape in the state. Several cultural events and football tournaments were organised at Harinsingha, Dewanganj — the two places from where the government is likely to kickstart mining —and Sagarbandhi, Mohammedbazar and few other places through the day. Villagers participated in the programmes with enthusiasm as this is the first time that the icon’s birthday was celebrated with such pomp and show. “We have been asked to reach out to the tribal people with the details of the rehabilitation package that the government is offering to the land losers. Birsa Munda is an icon of the tribal people and it would certainly help us win over the people here by showing respect to him,” said a Trinamul leader in Mohammedbazar. The project area has mostly tribal residents. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee had on November 9 announced the rehabilitation package worth Rs 10,000 crore, including offer of a government job as junior constable for every land-losing family and Rs 10-13 lakh per one bigha land which is around three times the market rate. Besides the cultural outfits of Trinamul and some tribal organisations, district police also got into the act as they organised an event in Harinsingha to pay tributes to Munda. Although the events witnessed large participation, some tribal leaders sounded a word of caution for the government. “We know the events were organised to woo the tribal people so that they accept the rehabilitation package.… But there are several issues that need to be resolved and the villagers want a direct communication with the government before any work starts,” said Sunil Soren, a leader of the Birbhum Adivasi Gaonta, who himself organised two programmes. Another faction of the tribal outfit led by Rabin Soren had organised a separate programme at Sagarbandhi. Bharat Jakat Majhi Pargana Mahal, another tribal outfit, also held an event at Mathurapahari village. Local Trinamul leaders tried to de-link the celebration from the upcoming project. “We are celebrating Birsa Munda’s birth anniversary on a large scale and we will continue with it every year. Our chief minister has shown respect to the icon by declaring a holiday on his birth anniversary.... There is no connection between the events today and the coal mine project,” said Kali Prosad Banerjee, block youth Trinamul president in Mohammedbazar, who attended at least three programmes on Tuesday. Faux pas The BJP came under criticism for its alleged faux pas over the tribal icon as MLA from Bankura Niladri Sekhar Dana on Monday garlanded the same statue of a tribal hunter that Union home minister Amit Shah had garlanded considering it to be of Munda. The faux pas invited criticism from different corners, including tribal outfits.  Trinamul leaders alleged that by repeating the mistake, the BJP leaders were trying to establish the statue as that of Munda. Dana, the BJP MLA, said he didn’t want to get into the controversy. “It was the birth anniversary of Birsa Munda and I paid tributes to the same statue that Amit Shah had garlanded.... I will not go into debates on whose statue it is. I can only say the statue represents a tribal person and we paid respects to it on the birth anniversary of Birsa Munda,” said Dana.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-98
16-11-2021||West Bengal||Cash crunch likely to put brakes on several university projects ||The struggling state exchequer has cast a shadow on completion of infrastructure for several proposed universities which chief minister Mamata Banerjee had announced in the past few years amid murmurs at Nabanna that the ruling party has decided to give priority to welfare schemes over any other projects. A senior official in the know of things said the cash-strapped Bengal government was forced to put a stop on construction of campuses for at least six universities while allotment for physical infrastructure has been drastically cut for at least four other varsities . The higher education department, during a recent virtual meeting, informed the public works department that construction of infrastructure in at least six universities — Alipurduar, Balurghat, Darjeeling Hill University at Mongpo, Guruchand-Harichand in North 24 Parganas, Mahatma Gandhi University in Tamluk and Rajarhat campus of Calcutta university — would be put on hold for an indefinite period, the source said. “Construction work for most of these six universities hasn’t started yet.... In all likelihood, work on infrastructure will not take off any time soon because of cash constraints,” said the source while adding that the varsities were supposed to be built at a cost of about Rs 38 crore to Rs 50 crore each. Although ongoing construction for four universities — Kurseong campus of Presidency University, Green University at Tarakeswar in Hooghly, Jhargram University and Kanyasree University in Nadia’s Krishnagar — will continue, the allotment for construction is likely to be drastically cut, the source added. Sources in the education department said the drying up of funds would hit the ongoing projects like the Kurseong campus, which is almost 80 per cent complete. “We hear that the revised deadline for the project is July, 2022. This means, no fresh funds are likely to be allotted for the project in the ongoing financial year,” said another source. The picture is no different in the case of Jhargram and Green universities. “In Jhargram, funds would be given to construct only the administrative building while construction of hostels, quarters, academic building and playground has been shelved for the time being…. In the case of Green University, only two floors of the academic building would be constructed instead of seven as allotment for the project has come down to Rs 40 crore from Rs 98 crore,” said an official. Sources at Nabanna said the finance department was forced to cut allotment for several departments drastically because of lack of funds in the backdrop of the Covid-19 pandemic and launch of several welfare schemes in the past three-four months. “All these projects were announced two years ago. But the situation has changed dramatically since March 2020 when a nationwide lockdown was announced. The state’s revenue generation fell drastically and the burden on the state coffers was doubled when a series of welfare schemes was launched after the elections. The welfare schemes require around Rs 20,000 crore annually,” said an official. The situation is so grim that the state government is likely to abandon the Mahatma Gandhi University in Tamluk even though 80 per cent of its piling work is over, said a source. “The ruling dispensation is very clear that welfare schemes are the priority as these win elections,” summed up the source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-98
16-11-2021||West Bengal||HC seeks Suvendu Adhikari's  view on CM vote-recount plea||Calcutta High Court on Monday asked the BJP’s Nandigram MLA Suvendu Adhikari to file an affidavit by November 29, on his view on chief minister Mamata Banerjee demand to recount votes polled in the Nandigram Assembly election this summer, which he won by1,956 votes (0.85 per cent of vote share). In her election petition, Mamata claimed Suvendu, with help of some others, had manipulated the counting and forced her defeat. Her election petition also refers to the procedure of challenging the result of a general election before the judiciary after completion of the election process. Suvendu, a Trinamul turncoat, feared he might not get justice in Calcutta and approached the Supreme Court. On Monday, Justice Shampa Sarkar of the high court directed the Nandigram MLA to file the affidavit in opposition to Mamata’s petition, after the Supreme Court refused to pass any judgment on his supplementary petition seeking adjournment of the hearing in Calcutta High Court. The apex court has fixed the matter for hearing after two weeks. Bengal’s advocate-general S.N. Mukherjee cited a Supreme Court ruling and said since the apex court did not issue a stay on the hearing at high court, Suvendu had no right to delay filing his affidavit. Mamata’s petition claimed that an Election Commission of India official, in charge of counting for Nandigram, had initially declared her victory on May 2, but the result was reversed in Suvendu’s favour the same day. Trinamul’s demand for a recount was turned down by the returning officer. Having lost the Nandigram election, although she led her party to a sweep across Bengal for the third term, Mamata had to get elected to the Assembly within six months of May 5 when she took oath as chief minister. She won the September 30 Bhowanipore bypoll by a margin of 58,835 votes or 49.61 per cent of the vote share, breaking Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee’s record of 58,128 votes for a sitting chief minister’s victory margin set by him in Jadavpur in 2006. The BJP had tried to get Bengal bypolls deferred till at least after November 5.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-98
16-11-2021||West Bengal||Himkanya: New toy train service to meet passenger demand||Rise in number of passengers has prompted the Darjeeling Himalayan Railway to introduce a new train service for tourists. Christened as “Himkanya,” the service will run on weekends between Darjeeling and Kurseong, covering a distance of around 35km. “The new service was launched on November 13 and it will be available for tourists on every Saturday and Sunday. This is yet another addition to the fleet of the heritage mountain railway,” DHR director A.K. Singh said. According to railway sources, there will be two first class coaches on the train which will be hauled by a diesel loco. During tourist season, the fare will be Rs 1,200 per person, while one has to shell out around Rs 1,000 in the off-season. On Saturdays and Sundays, the train will leave Darjeeling at 8.30am and reach Kurseong at 11am. It will leave Kurseong at 1.15pm and arrive at Darjeeling at 4.05pm. “On the way, the train will stop at Ghum, Sonada and Tung stations. Tourists wishing to explore the hills can avail themselves of this service,” Singh said.  In the past few months, railway authorities took a number of initiatives to popularise the mountain railway that is recognised by Unesco as a world heritage site. A number of new services like the Red Panda and Steam Jungle Safari were launched. There are also plans to increase the number of joy rides, the most popular train service in the hills, between Darjeeling and Ghum. “The Jungle Safari between Siliguri and Rongtong had to be stopped as a bridge along the route was damaged. We hope the repairs will be over in another four-five days,” said an official. Also, the regular service between New Jalpaiguri and Darjeeling has stopped because a portion of NH55 — along the DHR track runs — caved in at Mahanadi under Kurseong subdivision during heavy rain last month.    “If the fleet of toy trains is increased and new services are launched, tourists will get the opportunity to travel from Darjeeling to different places on toy trains. We believe there is a steady demand for tickets these days,” said Raj Basu, a veteran in the north Bengal tourism industry.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-98
16-11-2021||West Bengal||300 ration dealers unhappy with Duare Ration, to boycott event ||An association of about 300 ration dealers from over two dozen districts of Bengal have boycotted the launch of chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s pet programme, Duare Ration or doorstep ration on Tuesday at the Netaji Indoor Stadium in Calcutta. “We are not against the state government. We just don’t have the logistics to deliver ration goods to everyone’s doorstep,” said Muksed Ali, the founder of West Bengal MR Dealers’ Association, the umbrella unit of the 280 ration dealers in the state. “The government can purchase rations goods from us and distribute those. We have no problem,” Ali said. On Monday, the members of the association gathered at Magrahat in South 24-Parganas and protested against Duare Ration. From the protest venue, Ali declared that members of the association would not participate in Tuesday’s programme in Calcutta. Explaining their reasons, Ali explained why this was a loss-making scheme. He said that to provide ration at the homes of all 4,000 consumers under him, a dealer would have to incur a cost close to Rs 1 lakh. In return, the commission a dealer will earn for the same number of consumers will be not more than Rs 30,000 to Rs 35,000. The loss would amount to almost Rs 70,000 for a dealer, he added. “How can we possibly go ahead with this scheme? We will request the state government to reconsider its decision,” Ali said. He also added that the government still owed the dealers an accumulated commission of 8 to 12 months. Mamata on Tuesday will flag off Duare Ration  that aims to take ration dealers to the doorsteps of 10.33 crore consumers with their products once a month. Trinamul Congress on Monday tweeted: “Under the leadership of Mamata Banerjee, Promise Made means Promise DELIVERED! With Duare Ration starting on 16 November, 2021, the doorstep delivery of ration is now a reality in Bengal.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-98
16-11-2021||West Bengal||Jumbos on town visit safely steered out after midnight||The two elephants which had entered Jalpaiguri town early on Sunday before daybreak finally walked out of the town after midnight and headed for Gourikon, a forest patch under the Baikunthapur forest division. It took several hours for  foresters to steer the animals into the forest, but the unhurried pace of the exercise worked. The elephants, while retreating to the forest, did not get ruffled or cause any damage to the town. Sources said that on Sunday, as the evening rolled on, foresters burst sound crackers to make the elephants move out of the graveyard where they had halted since afternoon. Around 8pm on Sunday, when the elephants made some move, prompting foresters and  state police to halt traffic movement on NH27 that skirts the town. “It was a challenge for us to make the elephants move and cross the highway. Usually, elephants stop moving along the highway if they see lights of moving vehicles. That is why traffic was stopped for an hour,” said a forest officer. The elephants, he said, started moving but again halted on the way. Traffic was restored after an hour to avert snarls. Around 11pm, the foresters made a second attempt at steering the elephants. “Again, movement of vehicles was stopped and we started steering elephants towards the highway, using searchlights and sound crackers. The elephants climbed up to the highway and again descended back. Finally, around midnight, both the animals crossed the four-lane road,” the official added. The elephants walked past the Jalpaiguri Government Engineering College and then entered the plantations of Danguajhar tea estate, much to the relief of the foresters and the police. The foresters started bursting crackers again, steering the elephants towards Dangapara, an adjoining locality. The elephants then moved into the Karala Valley tea estate and entered Malipara,  on the way to Gourikon forest. “I had no inkling that the elephants had moved through our locality at night. It was only in the morning that we came to know about it and saw their footprints,” Dhir Mohan Malakar, a resident of Malipara, said.  The elephants moved through Rangdhamali and reached Gourikon, from where the forests of Baikunthapur forest division starts. “Throughout the day today (monday), the elephants are there in Gourikon. We have plans to drive them another 5km or 6km to the core areas of Baikunthapur so that they do not return to Jalpaguri town. The drive will start in the evening,” said Hari Krishnan,  divisional forest officer of Baikunthapur. The sudden visit of two elephants to Jalpaiguri town, which is around 20km from the forest, has been termed as an “adventure” by elephant experts. Parbati Barua, a prominent elephant expert, said the duo were “maljuria” or a pair of male elephants who stay away from the herd. “Maljuria elephants do foray into unknown areas. Also, fragmentation of elephant corridors is yet another issue,” Barua said over phone from Assam.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-98
16-11-2021||West Bengal||Protest bigger BSF jurisdiction, Left Front urges Mamata||The Left Front on Monday wrote to chief minister Mamata Banerjee, urging the Bengal government to protest against the Union home ministry’s decision to increase the jurisdiction of the Border Security Force along the state’s international borders. The letter, signed by Left Front chairman Biman Bose, said that the Left would take up protest programmes against the Centre’s decision to extend the BSF’s ambit from 15km to 50km inside Indian territory from the borders. “...The Union government cannot take such a step by neglecting the federal structure of the Constitution. If 50km of the bordering areas go under the jurisdiction of the BSF it will create a dangerous impediment in the daily lives of the lakhs of people of those areas,” the letter read, adding that the Centre should have discussed with the states concerned before taking the decision to extend the BSF’s jurisdiction. “…We request you to immediately register the state government’s protest against this decision that violates the federal structure of the Constitution. We hope that the state government will take the necessary action for the sake of the people of the state and for the federal structure of the Constitution,” Bose wrote. Last Thursday — after three persons were allegedly gunned down by the BSF in Cooch Behar — the state government has decided to bring a resolution in the Assembly against the extension of the BSF’s jurisdiction.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-98
16-11-2021||West Bengal||War veteran & country's first blade runner to power hill marathon||Major D.P. Singh, India’s first blade runner who lost one of his legs during the Kargil War, will power this year’s Darjeeling Hill Marathon, the biggest running event in the region that has also attracted international runners. The run, organised by Darjeeling police, will be held in Darjeeling on December 3. “Since the day is also celebrated as the International Day of Persons with Disabilities, who better than Maj D.P. Singh to inaugurate our event,” said Dr Santosh Nimbalkar, the SP of Darjeeling. Football star Bhaichung Bhutia, former captain of India's hockey team Bharat Chhetri and international runner Meera Rai sent video messages encouraging people to participate in the event in large numbers. This edition of the marathon will have events in six categories; 21.1K (kilometres) and 10K open and 10K for police personnel, for both male and female runners.  All the runs will start and end at Chowrasta, Darjeeling. The event has a total cash award of Rs 5.50 lakh.  The winner of the 21.1K run getting a reward of Rs 1 lakh. The winner in the 10K category will take home the cash award of Rs 25,000. Vikram Rai, founder of the Vik-Run Foundation and a guest at Monday’s event, said that the hill marathon, which is in its eighth edition now has created a niche for itself owing to its consistency. “Last year (when the pandemic had started)  most marathons were cancelled, however Darjeeling police took a bold decision to go ahead and organise the event when the pandemic situation improved. The consistency in organising the event has made it one of the most talked about events,” said Rai. Apart from Rai, Everester Jamling Tenzing Norgay and footballer Nadong Bhutia were also present at the event. Jubin Nautiyal, well known Indian playback singer and performer of the Bollywood blockbuster Bajrangi Bhaijaan will also be performing during the Darjeeling event. A blade runner, informally, is one who runs with blades attached to their legs because the lower part of their legs are missing. On July 8, 1999, Major Singh was severely injured by a mortar during the Kargil War. His leg had to be amputated but he later took to running marathons and has been recognised as the country’s first amputee or blade runner. The war veteran is also the first disabled solo skydiver of Asia. On Monday, Darjeeling police organised a function to officially announce the date of the event and also unveil the event’s running shirts and finisher’s medal. “I am super excited to see you all in Darjeeling on December 3,” said Major Singh through a video message.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-98
16-11-2021||West Bengal||Bolpur traders' body pleads for Pous Mela resumption||he Bolpur Byabasayee Sangha — a traders’ association of Bolpur and Santiniketan — on Monday requested in writing the Santiniketan Trust and the registrar of Visva-Bharati to organise the annual Pous Mela this year as thousands of traders, artisans and hoteliers depend on this December fair. Pous Mela was not held last year owing to the pandemic. “Fairs and events are being held this year. Hence Visva-Bharati should resume Pous Mela. We have written to the Santiniketan Trust and Visva-Bharati for a notification to hold the fair,” said Bolpur Byabasayee Sangha leader Sunil Singh in Santiniketan on Monday. On what they would do if Visva-Bharati refused to host the prestigious winter fair, Singh said: “If Visva-Bharati stays away from the event, we expect the state to keep the tradition alive.” “We cannot (hold the fair) under the present Covid protocols of the central government,” Visva-Bharati’s acting public relations officer Atig Ghosh told this paper.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-98
16-11-2021||West Bengal||Two friends save life of crab hunter attacked by a royal Bengal tiger||A crab hunter from Gosaba in South 24-Parganas suffered multiple injuries when a royal Bengal tiger attacked him in the Pirtala jungle of the Sunderbans late on Sunday evening.  Ashis Das, along with two of his companions, was checking a trap laid in a creek. The tiger mauled Ashis, a resident of Bijoynagar-Bali village of Gosaba, and tried to drag him inside the jungle. His two companions fought hard with it and managed to save his life. Ashis was rushed to Gosaba block hospital late on Sunday. His condition deteriorated following continuous bleeding from multiple injuries, which included one in the head, he was shifted to Chittaranjan National Medical College Hospital in Calcutta. “It was an uneven battle for us with the tiger... but it eventually left Ashis and left,” said one of the companions of the victim. Repeated incidents of attacks on crab hunters and fishermen in the Sunderbans mangrove area, particularly inside the Sunderbans Tiger Reserve, has become a matter of concern for forest officials, who have appealed to villagers not to risk their lives by infiltrating the domain of tigers. An official of South 24-Parganas divisional forest office said: “It is unfortunate that crab hunters have been inviting trouble repeatedly despite our repeated cautions.” Panic gripped residents of Kashinagar village of Patharpratima in South 24-Parganas when they noticed pugmarks of a tiger on the banks of Thakuran river on Monday morning. Officials of forest department’s Raidighi range and a quick response team from Maipith were called. However, till Monday evening there was no trace of the tiger.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-98
16-11-2021||West Bengal|| Brothers shot at over a piece of land in Malda group clash ||Two brothers were shot at during a clash between two groups over a plot at Katlamari area under Harishchandrapur police station of Malda district on Monday. The injured have been identified as Rafique Ali, 31, and Mohammed Jhantu alias Safiqul, 33. According to police sources, Unsha Haque and Bashir Ali, both residents of Katlamari, had differences over the ownership of a piece of land. On Monday, they had an altercation again. Soon, the situation turned violent. Some people from Unsha’s side allegedly fired in the open. A bullet hit Rafique’s abdomen and another hit Safiqul’s back. They are Bashir’s sons.   Local Trinamul leaders claimed that Bashir and his family are their supporters and that they were attacked by criminals who are under the political refuge of BJP. The BJP denied the charges.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-99
16-11-2021||West Bengal||Some schools of North 24-Parganas conduct Covid-safety mock drill  ||Some schools in North 24-Parganas district called students to campuses on Monday for a mock drill to make them accustomed with state government’s Covid guidelines ahead of campuses opening for students of Classes IX-XII from  Tuesday, the move raising brows in some quarters. Students of a number of schools, particularly under Basirhat subdivision, on Monday turned up on the campus in uniform, were welcomed at the entrance by teachers and officials who briefed them in details about how they should go about  adhering to Covid protocol during school hours. Schools in Bengal will resume from Tuesday physical classes for Classes IX-XII after a gap of 20 months because of the pandemic. Limited number of classes had resumed in February this year but they had to be called off owing to a spike in Covid cases. But, the fresh endeavour to reopen schools came with the state government mandating schools to adopt all the standard operating procedures of Covid-19.  The government also left the decision to parents to take the final call on whether to send their wards to school or not since the Covid situation still exists in the state. In most schools across the state, as part of the government’s advisory, campuses have been sanitised. Meetings with parents organised on Monday briefed them about the procedures involved. However, some schools in North 24-Parganas summoned students to school to organise mock drills. Tapan Das, a teacher of a high school in North 24-Parganas that organised a mock drill, said: “We called the students only to sensitise them ahead of the resumption of school. We showed them how to sanitise, clean their hands, maintain social distance, sit in the classrooms and protect themselves from possible infection.” “We called the students with the consent of their parents. We welcomed them on their arrival and showed them how the protocols should be followed from November 16,” a teacher added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-99
16-11-2021||West Bengal||Bengal: 782 new infections, 792 recoveries, active cases fall by 5 ||Bengal on Monday reported 782 new Covid-19 infections, 792 recoveries and five deaths, resulting in a fall again, after six days, by five in active cases to 8,047. A minister said new infections reported on Monday indicated people infected between November 6 (two days after Kali Puja) and 10. Over the past 51 days since Bengal snapped out of a 97-day fall in active cases, there has been a net rise of 373 in active cases, from 7,674. Calcutta reported 216 new infections and one death. North 24-Parganas reported 123 new infections and one death. These were the only two of the state’s 23 districts with a three-digit figure of new cases detected in a day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-99
