17-11-2021||West Bengal||Nusrat Jahan's marriage with Nikhil Jain legally invalid, says court||A Calcutta court has declared a purported marriage between actor turned Trinamool Congress MP Nusrat Jahan and city-based businessman Nikhil Jain in Turkey as legally invalid.  Jain had moved a suit before the Alipore Court here praying for a decree of declaration that no marriage took place between him and Nusrat.  "It is declared that the alleged marriage held on 19/06/2019 at Bodrum, Turkey in between the plaintiff and the defendant is not legally valid," Civil Judge S Roy of 2nd court, Alipore, ordered on Tuesday.  The court noted in its order Jain's contention that he and Jahan celebrated a wedding party in presence of their close friends and relatives "following both Western and Indian style and rituals of Hindu marriage."  It noted that the marriage was never registered in Turkey.  The plaintiff, Jain, claimed that after returning to India, they started residing together, but the relation between them deteriorated subsequently and that she was not willing to continue the union.  It was further claimed that the parties to the suit, one being a Hindu and the other a Muslim, never got married under the Special Marriage Act, "so their consensual union cannot be treated as a marriage."  The court also noted that Jahan prayed for a judgement, admitting the contentions of Jain regarding the alleged marriage.  "Considering all aspects of the suit and in view of the admission made on part of the defendant, the court is of the opinion that the alleged marriage held between the parties to the suit is not legally valid," the court directed, disposing of the suit.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-96
17-11-2021||West Bengal||Howrah Municipal Corporation bifurcated month before polls||The West Bengal assembly on Wednesday amended the Howrah Municipal Corporation (HMC) Act to separate Bally Municipality which was a part of the corporation since 2015. A Bill in this regard was tabled and passed in the House during the day, the last day of the winter session, around a month before the proposed date of election to HMC, December 19. Minister of State for Urban and Municipal Affairs Chandrima Bhattacharya said the idea behind the bifurcation is better development of Bally area and to provide improved service to people. Opposition BJP, however, claimed that Bally Municipality was separated from HMC because of political reasons. State Election Commission officials recently said the panel has accepted the West Bengal government's proposal to hold the polling to HMC and Kolkata Municipal Corporation on December 19. However, the notification is yet to be issued. The BJP has moved the Calcutta High Court with a prayer that election to all municipal bodies where it is due be held together on a single day. The case is now pending. The five-year term of elected representatives who run West Bengal's 112 municipalities and corporations ended in the last two years, but elections could not be held due to the Covid-19 pandemic. These civic bodies are being run by administrators appointed by the state government. On November 12, the assembly passed a resolution to carve out the area under Bally Municipality in Howrah district from the jurisdiction of HMC. The number of councillors of HMC will come down to 50 from 66 following the bifurcation. Howrah Municipality was established in 1862, and it was upgraded to the status of a municipal corporation in 1984. Bally Municipality, which was formed in 1883, was merged with HMC on June 26, 2015.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-96
17-11-2021||West Bengal||Ex-Trinamul leaders Dinesh Trivedi, Rathin Chakraborty in BJP civic poll panels ||Just over a month before elections to municipal corporations in Calcutta and Howrah, the state BJP appointed two committees to oversee poll preparations, betraying its dependence on "outsiders" that has, in turn, fuelled further dissention within the ranks. The committee for the Calcutta Municipal Corporation will be headed by former railway minister in the Manmohan Singh-led UPA II government and former Rajya Sabha MP Dinesh Trivedi. The other committe for Howrah is headed by another former Trinamul leader, former mayor Rathin Chakraborty, whose joining the BJP led to quite a turmoil in the party's Bengal unit. In the 180-plus days since the Bengal Assembly poll results sounded the death knell for the BJP's ambition to form a government with a solid drubbing by the electorate and subsequent defections by some elected and some who lost at the hustings, Trivedi has maintained a poise that is unusual in Bengal’s current political landscape. Trivedi has not issued a single statement that could embarrass the state and central leadership, like some of its legislators who came from the Trinamul and returned to the ruling party’s fold despite winning on a BJP ticket. Soon after Trivedi moved to the BJP he had stepped down as Rajya Sabha MP. He neither hankered for any post in the organisation nor was he offered any. “Dinesh da has been speaking for the party in the national media. He is articulate and a cautious speaker who represents the party well. After joining BJP he has not made any attempts at lobbying,” said a BJP source. Most BJP leaders feel Trivedi’s silence has earned him the role of leading the party into the civic polls. “Plus, because of the decades that he has spent hopping from one party to another and then being an MP, he has managed to keep himself in the good books of the triumvirate of Narendra Modi-Amit Shah-JP Nadda,” said a source. “However, we are not sure how effective the committee would be because Dinesh da is not an organisation man. He is effective in parleys and back-room politics. How far he can enthuse our cadres after a continuous losing streak is doubtful,” said a BJP leader. The committees' composition, however, laid bare the chinks in the BJP’s armour and its continued dependence on “outsiders”. Of the four co-in-charges appointed for the Calcutta committee, only Tushar Kanti Ghosh is a member of the BJP old-guard. The three others, Rudranil Ghosh, Vijay Ojha and Vaishali Dalmia, are all from the Trinamul. BJP MPs Roopa Ganguly and Swapan Dasgupta have also found place as members in the 19-member committee, which has among observers another Trinamul turncoat, the BJP’s MP from Barrackpore, Arjun Singh. During his days in the Trinamul, Singh had played a key role in Trivedi’s winning the Barrackpore seat in back-to-back elections. In 2019, Singh had joined the BJP and defeated Trivedi. Similarly, the Howrah committee is headed by the former mayor from Trinamul Rathin Chakraborty, whose appointment had led to a rebellion in the party and resulted in the expulsion of the Howrah urban unit chief. Other former Trinamul leaders who have been included in the committee are Jatu Lahiri, Supriti Chattopadhyay and Bani Singha Roy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-96
17-11-2021||West Bengal||Bengal: Idols found vandalised in Swarupnagar, tension in area||Idols of Hindu gods being prepared for an upcoming festival were found vandalised in West Bengal's North 24 Parganas district on Wednesday morning, triggering tension in the area, police said.  The idols were being prepared for 'Rash Utsav' in Sarapool in the Swarupnagar police station area, they said.  After locals informed the police, the vandalised idols were taken away and an investigation was started, they added.  No arrests have been made yet in connection with the incident, police said.  "We got information that some idols of Hindu gods were vandalised by unknown miscreants. Our officers are in the area at the moment, probing the matter," SP of Basirhat police district Joby Thomas told PTI.  "If anybody is found guilty, we will take legal action," he added.  Tension prevailed in the area as locals protested the vandalism, a North 24 Parganas district official said.  "The situation is under control at the moment and there is no problem," Thomas said.  Swarupnagar is near India's border with Bangladesh, which saw a series of attacks on Durga Puja pandals in October.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-96
17-11-2021||West Bengal||Civic body nudge to realtors ||The board of administrators (BoA) of Siliguri Municipal Corporation (SMC) has asked representatives of the Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Association of India (Credai), an apex body of realtors, to expedite the process of providing occupancy certificates to those who have bought flats or properties. Quick issuing of the occupancy certificate, which confirms that the buyer is in possession of the property, can help the civic body make its municipal tax assessment and start collecting tax from the property owners faster. “I have requested representatives of Credai to provide occupancy certificates on time. Owing to delay, the mutation of buildings, flats and shops can’t be carried out and new holding numbers can’t be issued in the names of the owners. So there is delay in assessing tax as well in collecting it,” said Gautam Deb, chairman of the BoA of the SMC. Sources in the civic body said there are around 200 such buildings in the city where construction has ended but whose developers are yet to submit the completion report to the civic body. “We have not increased property taxes or mutation fees. Even then, we have noticed that huge amounts of property taxes are outstanding. This is an important source of revenue for the civic body and there is no reason why tax can’t be collected from these buildings, which include both residential and commercial properties,” Deb added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-96
17-11-2021||West Bengal||Siliguri: Two persons flee cop custody, 1 caught later||Two persons arrested for allegedly creating nuisance in a drunken state in Siliguri on Monday night managed to escape police custody on Tuesday morning, but one was caught later in the evening. Sources said a team from New Jalpaiguri police station took Debashis Das and Krishna Dey to Siliguri district hospital for a health check-up, and while on way to court, the duo managed to flee from the police van. Dey was picked up by police from New Jalpaiguri in the evening. Das is traceless. Troops of the BSF 148 battalion posted at border outpost in Changrabandha of Cooch Behar arrested two persons, including a Bangladeshi woman, while they were trying to cross the border on Sunday. In Cooch Behar, a team of Kotwali from police station went to Soniyerbathan-Magpala area of Cooch Behar–I block and destroyed cannabis plants spread over an area of around 70 bigha. No arrests have been made in this connection.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-96
17-11-2021||West Bengal||Slogans for Kamtapur  back in Cooch Behar||Hundreds of supporters of the Kamtapur Peoples’ Party (United) hit the streets of Mathabhanga town in Cooch Behar district on Tuesday with a renewed demand for Kamtapur state. They took out a rally in the town, and later, a delegation of party leaders met the subdivisional officer and submitted a memorandum of the demand. In recent months, this is the first time that the KPP(U) raised its old statehood demand. “The state government lacks sincerity in establishing industrial units in north Bengal. That is why thousands of youths have to migrate in search of jobs. Our party and some other organisations have time and again raised the demand for separate statehood and we want the state and the Centre to act on it,” said Kangsha Raj Barman, the Cooch Behar district president of KPP(U). After the Assembly elections, the issue of statehood regained ground as along with regional parties, BJP legislators and Union ministers of state like John Barla and Nisith Pramanik have spoken about statehood. Their support seems to have encouraged regional parties, opined political observers. An observer said since Trinamul came to power, chief minister Mamata Banerjee has taken many steps to address the demands of the Rajbanshis, but Trinamul is principally against any division of Bengal. KPP(U) leaders, who  demonstrated and shouted slogans in front of the SDO’s office, said they had lined up a series of political activities across north Bengal. “The Centre is holding talks on the (Darjeeling) hill issue and the CM is also saying she wants a permanent political solution for the hills. We have waited for years... The party will take up political activities geared around the demand (for Kamtapur state),” Barman added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-96
17-11-2021||West Bengal||Siliguri: Schools open, traffic soars||The Siliguri Metropolitan Police, especially its traffic wing, took up the uphill task of trying to keep traffic smooth across the city on Tuesday as thousands of students headed for schools for the first time after 20 months. Along with the state-aided schools and colleges in and around Siliguri, a number of private English-medium schools and private colleges also resumed classes on Tuesday. Over 150 school buses hit the streets to pick up and drop students. “Today, 174 buses of educational institutions plied through various routes of Siliguri. We had to ensure that these buses as well as other vehicles move smoothly so that the students can reach school on time and back home without inconvenience. It could be done successfully,” said a senior officer of Siliguri Metropolitan Police. He said that till traffic on the Balason river bridge resumes, the police have to explore all options to prevent traffic congestion in the city. Installation of the Bailey bridge is in progress on the Balason bridge that was damaged on October 20. “We are in touch with the authorities of educational institutions and have collected details such as the number of buses and their routes. Unlike other vehicles, the problem with these buses is that they cannot be diverted to other routes as they need to pick and drop students from specific points. We hope that in the coming days, we will be able to ensure hassle-free movement of school buses and other vehicles throughout the city,” the officer added. Since October 20, vehicular movement has come to a halt on the Balason bridge that is on NH 31. As a result, a major part of the inbound and outbound traffic has to move through the southern ends of the city. On Tuesday, hundreds of students who study in schools of Matigara and neighbouring areas crossed the Balason bridge on foot. “I stay near North Bengal University in Shivmandir. I took an auto to reach the right bank of Balason. Then I crossed the bridge by foot and could reach my school in Matigara,” said a Class IX student of Matigara Girls’ High School. A schoolteacher said that now that schools have opened, installation work of the Bailey bridge on the Balason bridge should be expedited. “Otherwise, hundreds of students will keep facing inconveniences. They will cross the bridge on foot and take another transport option to reach schools and vice-versa. The administration should see to it that the bridge is functional at the earliest,” the teacher said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-96
17-11-2021||West Bengal||Kidnap victim rescued in Malda||Amit Choudhury, the 31-year-old son of a ration dealer of Malda town, who had been kidnapped on November 13, was rescued by police from an islet of the district on Monday night. Police have also arrested a person, Anup Choudhury, in connection with the kidnap and are in search of other gang members. Police sources said abductors had demanded Rs 25 lakh as ransom from Amit’s family. “It was found that the youth had been taken somewhere under the area of Mothabari police station. There was  fear that the youth might be taken to the neighbouring state of Jharkhand by the abductors. Finally, we confirmed he had been kept at Hamidpur, an island on the Ganga. A raid was conducted and we were able to rescue him on Monday night,” said Prashanta Debnath, DSP (headquarters), Malda. “Probe revealed that four persons were involved in the abduction. Although it appears the motive behind the abduction was ransom, we are also exploring other angles,” said a police officer. The youth runs a ration shop that bears the license in his mother’s name at Kazigram on the outskirts of the town. On Saturday evening, when he was returning home on a motorcycle with one of his employees, an SUV came in their way, forcing Amit to stop his two-wheeler. Some people with their faces covered, had got off the car and dragged Amit inside the SUV.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-96
17-11-2021||West Bengal||Purulia district administration launches drive for ration delivery||District administration in Purulia, considered to be among the less-developed districts of Bengal, has drawn up a database of over 300 remote pockets for the smooth implementation of the Duare Ration programme which chief minister Mamata Banerjee launched on Tuesday. The Purulia administration had already kept ready well-informed lists with maps of hamlets of tribal populations for circulation among ration dealers spread across 20 blocks. “Purulia is a district having poor populations spread across various critical and remote corners like forests or hills like the Ayodhya. The map is a GIS (geographic-information system) one that will help us know within a month whether any small hamlets have been dropped out of the Duare Ration scheme. We have also stipulated a week for each remote pocket which the dealers have to reach without fail every month,” said Purulia district magistrate Rahul Majumdar. Officials said all block development officers had been asked to update the database every month and ensure that all hamlets having poorer populations received their food grains in time. Purulia has 18.1 per cent tribal population spread across 164 villages. All 300 pockets have reportedly been earmarked with the challenges of those areas, including low income, high population ratios and poor navigability for larger vehicles, being mentioned. Sources said the database and map were “very important” as most hamlets were located more than 10km away from ration stores and could only be reached on foot, across from forested areas. “We welcome the Duare ration drive as well as the move taken by the state government to map remote areas because there are many Sabar families who don’t go out to collect rations because of accessibility issues,” said Prashanta Rakshit, director of the Paschim Banga Kheriya Sabar Kalayn Samity, an organisation working for tribal welfare. “Amjharna is a village in Bandwan block and is a Sabar hamlet. Around 100 Sabar families avoid visiting ration  shops because of the distance. Duare Sarkar will be of massive help and it will be very good if the administration keeps vigil to ensure doorstep delivery,” Rakshit added. Officials said the GIS-based map was formed for “easy monitoring” and “watertight data computation”. “These hamlets are usually very small and have only 20 families or less. So, there could be a risk of omission. In this database, we have provided the names of the ration dealers concerned and their phone numbers,” said a senior official. Officials said the move might be beneficial for other remote districts like in Jhargram and Bankura. They said the database would also help ration dealers as they could now communicate with specific pockets where they may be facing supply issues. “There are many pockets which are difficult to access with a large vehicle. In those instances, we can help dealers arrange smaller vehicles that can crisscross narrower lanes and forests,” said another official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-97
17-11-2021||West Bengal||School and college students begin new chapter in new normal||Schools and colleges in Bengal reopened on Tuesday after a gap of 20 months owing to the outbreak of the pandemic. Students of Classes IX, X, XI, and XI were allowed to resume physical classes by adhering to stringent safety protocols prescribed by the state education department. The Telegraph visited several schools in the districts to see how schools fared on Day One. Attendance At some districts in Bengal, rural schools recorded better attendance in comparison to those in urban areas. Teachers of schools in rural areas of South 24-Parganas, North 24-Parganas, Nadia, Murshidabad and other districts said much of this had to do with the absence of online facilities in rural areas. Because of poor Internet connectivity in remote places in the state, these rural students were deprived of online classes. Students were let inside the campus at 9.30am after the temperature of each was taken. Each student’s mask  was checked and hands were sanitised too, before entering the classroom. Namkhana’s Harihar Gadadhar Vidyapith in South 24-Parganas recorded 80 per cent attendance. In contrast, only 43.5 per cent students were present at Bolpur High School in Birbhum. “We had expected even higher attendance as students are solely dependent on offline classroom teaching in this remote area,” said Indranil Pradhan, headmaster of the Namkhana school. Pradhan’s counterpart at a high school in Nadia district’s Haringhata, Santanu Mondal, said: “Many students in rural areas help their parents in the fields early in the morning. They perhaps found it difficult to turn up in school because of the new timing.” Teachers of urban schools claimed that the hybrid mode of online and offline classes contributed to lower attendance. Students of urban areas have had more or less regular access to online teaching. Covid protocol Schools tried to adhere to the state government’s Covid protocol, but seating arrangements owing to limited infrastructure at many schools raised questions. At many schools, three students had to sit on a bench in violation of physical distancing norms. Excited students also mingled with each other freely at tiffin break. “It is impossible to avoid the proximity with friends consciously,” Soumya Chaudhuri, a student of Class XI in Nadia said. At colleges, discipline was even more slack. At a college in Birbhum’s Rampurhat, students smeared abir on each other in violation of Covid protocol. At some colleges, students complained of lack of sanitisers and thermal scanners while entering the premises. Outside the campuses of many schools and colleges, parents were seen waiting eagerly for their children but most did not bother to wear masks or maintain physical distance. Welcome gesture At several schools, the return to the campus after a gap of 20 months was marked by welcome gestures by teachers. Teachers and officials at some schools welcomed the students with roses, pens and sweets. Teachers at the Bankura Mission Girls School welcomed students with flowers. “Students are like our children. It was a great feeling to see them after such a long time. So, we decided to offer them sweets arranged by teachers,” headmaster of a school at Basirhat in North 24-Parganas. Students’ organisations, including the SFI and the Trinamul Chhatra Parishad, welcomed students with masks, hand sanitisers, and wet cleaning tissue. Comeback feeling Almost all students said they were excited to be back on campus. Class XII student of Dighalgram Netaji Vidyapith, Puja Nandi, said: “It is great feeling to return to school. I missed it a lot during the last 18 months... It really feels like a reunion. I hope the schools continue classes like they used to happen before the pandemic. But I would have been happier if the government arranged vaccination for all school students before opening physical classes.” Sajal Choudhury, father of a student in Nadia, agreed with Puja. “The Covid safety arrangements appeared good on Day One. But I doubt if such facilities and such strictness will continue. It would have been better if all the students had got vaccinated before the opening of physical classes.” Tragedy strikes Cooped up at home for 20 months, a few students of Phulia Sikshaniketan in Nadia decided to take a joyride on their cycles along the banks of the Hooghly on Tuesday instead of attending school. But the joy of Class IX student Biprajit Garai, 16, and his friends did not last long as he went missing while taking a dip in the river at Krittibas ghat in Phulia. Biprajit, a resident of Pareshnath Para in Phulia, remained untraced till late evening.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-97
17-11-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal logs 819 new cases, 825 recoveries and 14 deaths||Bengal on Tuesday reported 819 new Covid-19 infections, 825 recoveries and 14 deaths, resulting in a drop by 20 in its active cases to 8,027. A minister said the new cases reported on Tuesday indicated people infected between November 7 (three days after Kali Puja) and November 11. Over the past 52 days since Bengal snapped out of a 97-day fall in active cases or Covid patients under treatment, there has been a net rise of 353 in the state’s active cases, from 7,674. Calcutta reported 231 new infections and four deaths on Tuesday. North 24-Parganas reported 129 new infections and five deaths. These were the only two of the state’s 23 districts with a three-digit figure of new cases detected in a day. Seven districts reported a single-digit figure. Calcutta, North and South 24-Parganas, Howrah, Hooghly and Nadia accounted for 620 or 75.7 per cent of the new infections detected on Tuesday. Eighteen districts reported zero deaths. The daily positive confirmation rate, nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 2.21 per cent on Tuesday. The state’s mortality rate is 1.2, while that of the nation is 1.33 per cent. The state’s recovery rate is 98.3 per cent, while that of the nation is 98.27. Bengal now has nearly 16.06 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was logged in March last year. The total includes over 15.78 lakh recoveries and 19,333 casualties.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-97
17-11-2021||West Bengal||East Burdwan: School teachers try to woo lockdown-hit dropouts  ||Teachers of an East Burdwan school on Tuesday started reaching out to parents of dropouts to convince them to send the youngsters back to class as schools opened after a 20-month gap induced by the Covid-19 pandemic . The initiative began after only 30 of 109 students in Classes IX and X turned up at Akalpoush APG High School in Kalna. Out of 37 registered students in Class IX, only 11 turned up. In the case of Class X, attendance was more dismal, 19 out of 72. “Most students here are from very poor families and we had heard many of them dropped out and started working during the lockdown to augment the family income... A student even went to work in Rajasthan,” said Sudipta Ghosh, the teacher-in-charge. “We thought that we must try to bring at least some of these boys back to school... On the first day, we went to four homes,” Ghosh added. Among these were the families of Ajay Garai and Loknath Malik, both of Class IX. Ajay went to Rajasthan for six months to work in the jewellery industry. Loknath has been working as a farm labourer for months now. “The main reason behind their dropping out is poverty. We convinced the parents that we would waive school fees,” said Ghosh, adding they would carry on with this initiative of going to homes of dropouts to persuade their return. A social researcher assessing the impact of lockdown on rural schools welcomed this initiative. “Teachers and people from all strata of society should come forward to bring dropouts back to class,” said Kumar Rana, a social researcher in Calcutta who was part of a study that revealed around 28 per cent primary school students got disconnected from education during the pandemic. In Birbhum district, Manisha Banerjee, the headmistress of Labhpur Satyanarayan Girls’ High School said she also saw a very poor attendance among the students of Class XI on Tuesday. “I asked the girls about the rest of their classmates. After observing the situation for a week, we would find the girls who dropped out of our school,” said Banerjee. Vaccine trouble Around a dozen college students of Arambagh Netaji Mahavidyalaya, who are yet to cross 18 years, wrote to the subdivisional officer of Arambagh Haseen Zahera Rizvi that they were not allowed to attend physical classes on Tuesday as they had not received Covid jabs. After intervention of the subdivisional officer, the college authorities later said the students would be allowed in class. "Most of the students received jabs in the vaccination camp organised in the college and so many objected against those who had not received the jab. All the 12 are just one or two months away from turning 18. District officials said they would be vaccinated soon as the Covid vaccine can be provided to those who reached have turned 18. Till then, they would attend classes maintaining Covid protocol," said Asim Kumar De, the principal of the college.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-97
17-11-2021||West Bengal||Municipal polls hit case hurdle||The state election commission on Tuesday informed Calcutta High Court that till cases relating to Bengal’s municipal polls were not disposed of by the court, it would not announce dates of any municipal poll. The panel’s lawyer said since a petition seeking an order for the panel to announce civic polls in Bengal — besides Calcutta and Howrah — was pending in court, the panel could not announce any polls now. The high court asked the state government and the panel to file affidavits on this issue by November 24. The poll panel had decided to hold elections to civic corporations in Calcutta and Howrah on December 19, but after Tuesday’s development, polls appear unlikely on that date. The BJP has repeatedly asserted it wants judicial intervention to ensure all pending civic polls in Bengal take place simultaneously, or that results of all civic bodies be declared the same day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-97
17-11-2021||West Bengal||15,000 persons will be recruited under SSC, says Bratya Basu||Bengal’s higher education and school department minister Bratya Basu told the Assembly on Tuesday that 15,000 persons would be recruited under the School Service Commission (SSC) in the next two months. Basu, replying to a question by Trinamul MLA Samir Jana, said: “We will clear legal hindrances and make 15,000 appointments in the SSC in the next two months.” SSC sources said cases pertaining to 5,000 appointments were pending in court. Complaints from 13,000 job seekers were settled till October 8. Names of 1,200 more job seekers have been released till November 30. The process of appointment should be over by December, an SSC source said. Recruitments to upper primary teachers’ posts have been delayed because of legal battles for seven years. The commission had to strike down its merit list after Calcutta High Court in December last year declared it invalid because of lack of transparency. Following the high court’s order, applicants had to sit for interviews twice. The court’s order also compelled the SSC to accept complaints from applicants alleging irregularities in the merit list. Hence, the state deems it safe to clear legal hurdles first. Basu also clarified the state’s stand on the National Education Policy. He said the government would not bow down if the NEP was forcibly imposed on the state. “Bengalis have a certain kind of thought and education. There are differences of opinions regarding the NEP. We won’t accept any one-sided fatwa,” he said. Minister flayed Bengal Assembly Speaker Biman Banerjee on Tuesday, called out fire and emergency services minister Sujit Bose for not being able to answer a question placed by Trinamul MLA Abdul Khalek Mollah. Mollah sought information on the number of fire incidents in the state till August 31 and how many people had lost their lives in these incidents. The minister replied saying that no information or data was readily available with him. The Speaker called out Bose and said: “What are you saying? (You must) See this issue humanely. Why will you not have the information… Arrange for such information in future.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-97
17-11-2021||West Bengal||Bengal passes Assembly motion against BSF wider ambit||Bengal on Tuesday became the second state after Punjab to have a resolution passed in its Assembly against the Union home ministry’s decision to expand the jurisdiction of the Border Security Force from 15km to 50km inside Indian territory from the international borders. The resolution, moved as a motion by the ruling Trinamul, was opposed by the 63 MLAs of the BJP who showed up. Hence, 112 votes were cast for the motion and 63 votes went against it. “The attempt to expand the BSF’s jurisdiction is against the BSF Act and it violates the federal structure. The Supreme Court has said paramilitary forces such as the BSF in any state has to be deployed based on discussion with the state in question, which wasn’t done… The Constitution states law and order is a state subject… the decision violates the Constitution,” state parliamentary affairs minister Partha Chatterjee told journalists after the day’s proceedings in the House.  He said if this decision is enforced, 11 districts of the state will go almost entirely under the ambit of the BSF. “A lion’s share of north Bengal and 37 per cent of Bengal’s entire territory will go under the jurisdiction of the central agency. This means  the Centre’s decision is an attempt to impose central rule on vast swathes of the state, through the backdoor, which we vehemently protest,” he said. If the decision is enforced, 32,400sqkm out of the state’s total area of 88,752sqkm would go under the central agency. Inside the Assembly, BJP MLA Suvendu Adhikari had said BSF’s jurisdiction should be enhanced to 80km inside international borders in Bengal to prevent the entry of “anti-national” elements. Dinhata’s MLA Trinamul’s Dinhata MLA Udayan Guha, who won the October 30 bypoll with the highest margin in an Assembly election in Bengal, on Tuesday alleged that BSF jawans inappropriately touch women in Bengal’s bordering areas, triggering an uproar from BJP MLAs. BJP members claimed Guha had insulted both women and the BSF. The face-off between the treasury and Opposition benches went on for about five minutes, during which Guha also allegedly threatened to break the BJP’s Cooch Behar MLA Mihir Goswami’s leg. Speaker Biman Banerjee warned Guha against impropriety in the House.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-97
17-11-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee announces financial sops for ration dealers ||Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday launched Duare Ration (ration on doorsteps) and announced some financial sops for the ration dealers in an attempt to get them on board to implement the scheme properly across Bengal. “We have decided to give a subsidy of Rs 1 lakh to nearly 21,000 ration dealers to help them buy vehicles which they will require to deliver rations to doorstep.… The ration dealers can recruit two persons at Rs 10,000 a month and the government will bear half the cost. Furthermore, commission for the dealers has been enhanced to Rs 150 a quintal from Rs 75 a quintal,” the chief minister said during the launch of the scheme at Netaji Indoor Stadium in Calcutta on Tuesday. She also relaxed the condition for the scheme marginally by saying the dealers could take their vehicle to a point where beneficiaries could come and collect their rations. “But the distance travelled would not be more than 500 meters,” she said. The cash incentives and the relaxation in delivery model were announced as a section of dealers has been protesting against the scheme citing practical problems and financial constraints in implementing it properly. “I had promised before the elections that we would implement it and I would go all the way to deliver on my promise,” said Mamata, before adding that the financial benefits for the ration dealers were worth Rs 2,500 crore. The chief minister said her government was trying to look into the demands of the ration dealers as this would be a service to common people. “The scheme is a kind of service to common people. I hope the ration dealers would welcome the scheme as the government has come forward for their assistance despite several problems,” said Mamata. The chief minister, sources said, wanted to bring all the stakeholders on board as she was eager to run the scheme in the state for two reasons. First, the scheme would connect crores of beneficiaries in rural areas directly to the government as they don’t have to travel long distances to collect their foodgrains. Second, this would make the state the first in the country launch such a scheme successfully. “Some states are trying to follow our Duare Sarkar scheme these days…. I can see that what Bengal thinks today, India thinks tomorrow,” Mamata said. While the government is bullish about the scheme and its impact on forthcoming elections, a senior bureaucrat said it would take a while to assess whether the project could be implemented as planned. “There are several practical problems in implementing the scheme…. It has to be seen how ration dealers and local administration navigate through them,” said the bureaucrat.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-97
