18-11-2021||West Bengal||Even pandemic is not a deterrent for this 400-year-old Kartik Pujo organised by the Roys||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-94
18-11-2021||West Bengal||Ignored by BJP, Tathagata Ray continues tirade against Bengal leaders ||BJP leader and former Tripura and Meghalaya governor Tathagata Roy on Thursday renewed his attack on the BJP’s Bengal leadership and its minders at the centre,  claiming  the ship to rescue the party in the state had already sailed. “Well-wishers of the BJP say I shouldn’t have gone public on my allegations against women and money ruining the party but raised it in the internal forums. Very humbly state, that time is long gone past. BJP (leaders) can take whatever action they want to take against me. But, if the party does not mend its way, then its days are numbered in the state,” the former governor wrote in a tweet on Thursday morning. The comment comes a month before the party fights for the Calcutta and Howrah municipal corporations elections, which are likely to be announced any day now. The tweet comes exactly 10 days after he had raised the flag alleging that  the Bengal unit was muddled in sleaze and cash. The “lately whistleblower” as Roy prefers to introduce himself on his Twitter bio has done little apart from slinging mud at  party leaders. His main targets have been  Bengal minders Kailash Vijaywargiya, Shiv Prakash, Arvind Menon and former Bengal unit president and MP Dilip Ghosh. Vijaywargiya, who had successfully managed the BJP’s campaign in Haryana in 2014 when the BJP formed the government in the state for the first time, was soon made  Bengal minder with an eye on the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. The BJP did well in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls winning 18 seats (which translates into 126 Assembly seats) but has since then been on a downward spiral. Roy had earlier urged  newly-appointed state president Sukanto Mazumdar and  leader of the Opposition Suvendu Adhikary to hold the reins of the party tightly to come out of the earlier mould. Mazumdar, a Sangh acolyte, has so far inspired little confidence among the BJP cadre, as seen by the drubbing that that party suffered in the by-polls, adding salt to the wounds of this summer’s Assembly polls. On the other hand, Adhikary is yet to complete a year in the BJP but has managed the key position of leader of the Opposition riding high on his defeating Mamata Banerjee in Nandigram. Despite all his bravado Adhikary has not been able to check the reverse trickle of legislators elected on a BJP ticket to the Trinamul, many of whom had followed him to the saffron party. Roy’s relationship with  BJP leaders in Delhi and Calcutta have been testy for a long time. In the past he had led the party when it was struggling to keep its presence felt in the early 20s and held hands with Mamata Banerjee to tiptoe into the corridors of power starting with the Calcutta Municipal Corporation. A Sanghi at heart, Roy even while discharging gubernatorial responsibilities got involved in sledging with commoners on Twitters over his communally-charged tweets. In April 2020, Roy was removed as governor. The few years spent in the Raj Bhawan had already made him distant from the power centre in the Bengal BJP then resting with Dilip Ghosh. In the run-up to the 2021 Assembly polls, if Roy had thought the party would give him a position of pre-eminence, he was disappointed as BJP chose to open its doors to anyone and everyone from the Trinamul and, also, the tinsel world. While some of the points that Roy has raised, especially about granting a free hand to Trinamul turncoats which did not go down well with  Bengal voters, were valid, his repeated attacks have turned him more of a stranger in his own party that he has served for four-decades. “What has he done for the party? The party fielded him from the Calcutta South Lok Sabha seat when Mamata Banerjee was no longer contesting (in 2014). He did not even campaign properly,” said a BJP leader. Despite Roy’s misgivings about the Delhi trio, they still remain in charge of Bengal. “Those who are trying to muddy the water using social media from their air-conditioned room, should ponder who they are actually helping,” said former BJP Bengal president Dilip Ghosh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-94
18-11-2021||West Bengal||Mamata announces Rs 10,480 crore investment in Howrah in 2 years ||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee said on Thursday that her government is expecting Rs 10,480 crore investment in the Howrah district over the next two years, which will lead to the creation of job opportunities for more than 1 lakh people. Addressing a review meeting in the district, Banerjee said 882 new projects would come up in Howrah in the next two years. "In the next two years, investments to the tune of Rs 10,480 crores will come in Howrah district. Around 882 new projects and industrial parks would come up in the district, generating more than 1,16,000 jobs," she said. Banerjee urged industrialists to recruit locals rather than bringing in workers from other states. "We are aware that people from other states come here in search of jobs. We live in peace and harmony. But I would request all of you (industrialists) to recruit locals for the upcoming projects," she said. Banerjee also asked the district authority and the Land Department to settle the land-related issues at the earliest. "There has been a lack of coordination. I would request the district and the Land Department officials to look into the problems and resolve them at the earliest. On December 14, a synergy programme will be organised to look into the problems," she said. The chief minister's announcement of the investments in Howrah is part of the state government's renewed efforts to bring in big-ticket investments. Banerjee also announced that the state government is planning to develop a new dairy firm -- 'Bangla Dairy' -- under the state Animal Husbandry Department. "It will sell various kinds of dairy products. Around 512 outlets would set up to sell those products," she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-94
18-11-2021||West Bengal||Amphan relief theft case: Suvendu Adhikari reprieve stays||A division bench of Calcutta High Court headed by Justice Subrata Talukdar on Wednesday refused to hear the state government’s petition pleading that seeking setting aside of an order by a single judge bench’s stay on proceedings against Opposition leader Suvendu Adhikari and his associate Chanchal Nandi in tarpaulin theft case be set aside. Justice Subrata Talukdar, who headed the division bench, said according to a Supreme Court ruling, any division bench of the court had no jurisdiction to hear appeals in such cases. The state will have to move the Supreme Court to challenge the high court order. On the basis of an FIR, the Contai police had initiated proceedings and Suvendu and others. According to the FIR, Suvendu and his associates had stolen a good quantity of tarpaulin and other articles kept inside the local municipal godown. The tarpaulins had been kept for victims of Cyclone Amphan. A petition was moved in the high court on Wednesday challenging the Election Commission’s decision to hold bypoll in the Bhawanipore constituency by spending huge government money to give space to Mamata Banerjee. The division bench of Chief Justice Prakash Srivastava and Justice Rajarshri Bharadwaj asked the EC to file an affidavit in opposition and fixed the case for hearing on November 29.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-94
18-11-2021||West Bengal||Male elephant dies of jolt from wire at farm in Jalpaiguri||A young male elephant died at a village in Banarhat block of Jalpaiguri on Tuesday night after it came in contact with a live wire laid on a farm to prevent jumbo entry. The state forest department has filed a case against the farm owner. Sources said on Tuesday night, a herd of wild elephants came from Moraghat forest and entered Ravabusty in Banarhat block, devouring paddy. Later, villagers heard an elephant honking loudly. On Wednesday morning, the carcass was found. Janmejoy Pal, additional DFO of Jalpaiguri wildlife division, said: “The vets confirmed electroc¬ution. Laying live wires to deter elephants is illegal.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-94
18-11-2021||West Bengal||BJP MLAs raise hue and cry, stage walkout on liquor tax cut||BJP MLAs walked out of the Bengal Assembly on Wednesday, after Speaker Biman Banerjee refused to admit an adjournment motion introduced by three of its members demanding answers on a slash in liquor tax in the state, even as the Mamata Banerjee government refuses to reduce the state tax components on petrol and diesel. BJP’s Asansol South MLA Agnimitra Paul, who tried moving the motion, asked why there isn’t a ban of liquor in the state. “In states like Gujarat and Bihar (both BJP ruled) liquor is banned, yet they are developing.… Why can’t they ban liquor in Bengal?” asked Paul later. The saffron camp, in keeping with its divisive agenda, alleged that the reserved jobs for people of the OBC category were being given to people of a certain community, ignoring Hindu OBCs. Also part of the adjournment motion were the alleged breakdown of law and order and the lack of job opportunities in Bengal. Speaker Banerjee allowed the BJP MLAs to read out the motion in the House but he refused to admit it and hence it wasn’t tabled for voting. The BJP’s Nandigram MLA Suvendu Adhikari accused the treasury benches of trying to silence  the Opposition. “The House belongs to the Opposition, to the people. We are representatives of the people... The government is trying to si¬lence us because they are over 200 in number (effectively, 223 in the 294seat House).” BJP MLAs demonstrated in the well of the House for 10 minutes and staged a walkout. BJP chief state spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya said later that they would hold protest events between November 18 and 24 in the state, demanding cut in state taxes on petrol and diesel. Deputy Chief Government Whip Tapas Roy brought a privilege motion against an official each of the CBI and the ED. Satyendra Singh, a deputy superintendent in the CBI, and Rathin Biswas, an assistant director in the ED, have been accused of arresting two ministers and an MLA in the Narada “sting” operation case and filing a chargesheet against members of the House, respectively, without seeking permission from the Speaker. Roy alleged that these actions of the central agencies were a breach of privilege of the House. The motion was admitted and passed in the House. It has been sent to the privilege committee, which will investigate the matter. Speaker Banerjee had earlier summoned the two officials. The duo had moved court against the Speaker’s summons, following which the court directed them to meet Banerjee. Eventually, although both Singh and Biswas met the Speaker, neither could satisfy him with their answers. Suvendu said he wouldn’t comment on the privilege motion at the moment, but asserted that the BJP members of the privilege committee would oppose it. BJP national vice president Dilip Ghosh visited the Assembly and met his party’s MLAs, along with Suvendu. Ghosh then met senior ministers Firhad Hakim, Moloy Ghatak and Aroop Biswas. “I came to exchange greetings with everyone in the Assembly… I also spoke to Moloy Ghatak for the repair and expansion of a bridge over the Kangsabati in my parliamentary constituency. I asked him to write to the Centre about it,” said Ghosh, also the Midnapore MP.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-95
18-11-2021||West Bengal||Seven turtles found dead in Sagardighi, Cooch Behar||Seven Indian peacock softshelled turtles, a vulnerable species, were found dead in Sagardighi, the largest water body in the heart of Cooch Behar town, on Wednesday. Sources said some morning walkers noticed the dead turtles and informed the state forest department. Till evening, seven turtles were found dead. They were taken to the veterinary hospital for post-mortem to ascertain the cause of death. “We are in touch with the state forest department and the animal resource development department. Once the cause of death is ascertained, steps will be taken to ensure their safety at Sagar Dighi,” Rakibur Rehman, subdivisional officer (sadar) of Cooch Behar, said. Forest officials said this species of turtles is a Schedule-I animal under the Wildlife (Protection) Act and are considered to be a vulnerable species under the red data list of the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN). The turtles, scientifically known as Nilssonia hurum, are usually found in India and Bangladesh, mostly in streams, rivers, lakes and ponds. In Cooch Behar, the turtles are found in Sagar Dighi and in another water body in Baneswar, a locality on the outskirts of the district headquarters. Local people fondly call them Mohan. Srihari Dutta, a local resident, said: “We came to know that the water body has been leased out to some private agency for pisciculture. Also, washing of clothes has not stopped at Sagar Dighi. We want to know if the turtles died of pollution or any chemical in the water.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-95
18-11-2021||West Bengal||Duo jailed for ATM fraud in Malda||Two youths from North Dinajpur district were convicted on Wednesday by the chief judicial magistrate’s court in Malda for a cyber fraud case in 2019. This is the first case of cyber crime in Malda district where the accused were convicted in court. Assistant public prosecutor Debajyoti Pal said Dilwar Hossain and Mehebub Alam, who are from Dodra, a village near Raiganj, have been sent to four years of prison and fined Rs 30,000 each. According to Pal, homemaker Karunabala Adhikary had been withdrawing money from an ATM at Bulbulchandi in Habibpur block of Malda on October 16, 2019, when Hossain and Alam were present and quickly noted the PIN of her debit card. They got into conversation with her and exchanged her ATM card with another card without her knowledge. Then, the duo purchased jewellery from two shops in Malda using Adhikary’s ATM card. Adhikary understood she had been cheated and filed a complaint with Malda cyber crime police. During the probe, police examined her bank passbook and identified the locations from where the jewellery was purchased. They then checked CCTV footage of the shops where Hossain and Alam had gone. In due course, as the duo went to one of the jewellery shops to buy more gold using ATM cards of other people, they were nabbed. “The trial was conducted by the court and 14 witnesses had appeared during the process that continued for two years. This is the first conviction of an ATM fraud case in Malda. We have information that similar complaints are pending against them in at least four police stations of Malda and North Dinajpur districts,” said Pal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-95
18-11-2021||West Bengal||CII draws up livelihood plan for Darjeeling residents||The Confederation Indian Industry (CII) has taken up the task to try and create avenues for alternative employment for residents of Darjeeling and Kalimpong hills. “We have drawn up a plan to generate employment through the mobilisation of rural entrepreneurship hubs where we are training residents to utilise available resources and come up with products which have substantial demand. Also, we are developing linkages among them and wholesale buyers so that they find it easy to merchandise their products,” said Sanjay Tibrewal, chairman of the north Bengal zone of CII. The initiative that started a few months back gathered momentum since last month, when chief minister Mamata Banerjee asked the trade bodies, including the CII, to put in efforts so that the local population can make a living from alternative resources. “There are ample resources in the region and trade bodies have to play a key role to explore avenues and come up with plans that can help in the creation of employment,” Mamata said while attending an administrative review meeting in the hill town of Kurseong. So far, the CII has managed to bring in over 1,800 participants in events that have been organised to tell them how they can earn by forming clusters at local levels through the production of large cardamoms, oranges, textiles, woollen garments and soft brooms. “There will be around six textile clusters for readymade garments as around 65 women entrepreneurs are keen to join hands for the value addition and popularisation of woollens and other garments. We will ensure that such clusters, comprising a group of local entrepreneurs, come up in Darjeeling, Mirik, Sonada and in Kurseong,” said Tibrewal. He said that according to the plan, the state government will support these clusters with infrastructure and machinery to ensure a better quality of produce from the hills. The trade body, sources said, has also planned to collaborate with experts to resolve the issue of pest attack that has been plaguing orange and large cardamom cultivations. “We need expert advice to boost productivity of plantations. Also, steps would be taken to link farmers with the markets of these products that run in places such as Bijanbari and Sukhiapokhri,” said a source. Recently, a team of CII visited Kaijale-Bijanbari, an area where squash (a popular hill vegetable) is cultivated and soft brooms are made. “We want to find out what the cultivators and the broom-makers need. Accordingly, plans would be made to help them, whether it be increasing the scale of production or merchandising the items,” Tibrewal added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-95
18-11-2021||West Bengal||SFI activists ‘purify’ venue of Nathuram Godse memory event||The Student’s Federation of India staged a protest in front of the Indian Association Hall in Calcutta on Wednesday, two days after a fringe Hindutva outfit had observed the death anniversaries of Nathuram Godse and Narayan Apte at the same venue. SFI activists used chemicals to sanitise the gateway to the premises in a symbolic gesture against the event that had commemorated the assassins of Mahatma Gandhi. “The RSS, BJP and other Hindutva outfits from the Sangh Parivar are deadlier than the coronavirus. This is why we sanitised the gates of the Indian Association Hall today,” said Debanjan Dey, the president of the SFI’s Calcutta district committee. Wednesday’s event was organised by the Calcutta district unit of the outfit. On November 15, a year-old fringe Hindutva outfit, “Hindu Darpan”, had observed what they called the “martyrdom” of Godse and Apte. This was ostensibly the first time in the history of Calcutta that such an event took place officially. On November 15 1949, both Godse and Apte were hanged for assassinating Mahatma Gandhi. Nearly 40 people took part in the event in the Indian Association Hall, where one of the speakers was Lokenath Chatterjee, the co-convenor of the legal cell of the Bengal BJP. A lawyer by profession, Chatterjee was the BJP candidate for the Assembly polls from the Ballygunge constituency. In his speech, Chatterjee had accused Gandhi of running the Congress as an “autocrat” and questioned his policies He hailed Godse and Apte instead as “flag bearers” of their ideology. On Wednesday, SFI leaders said “every time” communal forces such as the RSS, BJP and their associates tried to “engage in divisive politics” in Bengal, the SFI would protest against it. SFI leader Dey also asked why a “revered” organisation like the Indian Association was allowed to be used for such an event.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-95
18-11-2021||West Bengal||Govt bid to explain ‘better’ package to Deocha-Pachami stakeholders||The Bengal government has decided to reach out to the stakeholders of the Deocha-Pachami coal-mine project and explain to them the rehabilitation offer by comparing it with similar packages offered by the central government and other agencies acquiring acquire land for government projects. District officials said the effort was to show how the Mamata Banerjee government was giving a better deal than  the central government. The district administration has convened a meeting on Friday where senior officials will present a comparative study of the rehabilitation package in the presence of heads of tribal hamlets, tribal leaders, local panchayat functionaries and others. “The meeting will be held with all stakeholders to explain how the rehabilitation package that our chief minister has announced is far better than other such packages. We have collected a few such standard packages and conducted a comparative study. After the meeting, we will request stakeholders to submit their suggestions, if any,” said Bidhan Ray, the Birbhum district magistrate. The move came up after the state government officially issued the notification for the rehabilitation package on Tuesday evening. Officials said though the first phase work of the coal-mine project would start on government land, the move was taken to ensure that the 21,000-odd people, who will be affected by the project, were satisfied. Officials have prepared a presentation of four different rehabilitation packages offered by Asansol Durgapur Development Authority, NTPC, central government and the Jharkhand government. These will help people in Deocha-Pachami understand that they are getting a better deal, a senior state government official said. “We are trying to show the difference between land prices and the offer of government jobs (as junior constables). In three of the four other packages that will be shown to people in Deocha-Pachami, there is no provision of government jobs,” said a senior state government official. In the NTPC packag, the price of land offered to the land-losers was Rs 15 lakh per acre, whereas the Bengal government was offering Rs 10-13 lakh per bigha or around Rs 30-40 lakh per acre. The land rate being offered to people for the Deocha-Pachami project is better than the other three, a government official said. In case of employment, the Jharkhand government package offers job but only to those who would lose an acre.  In the case of Deocha-Pachami, the Bengal government is  offering jobs to all affected families irrespective of the quantum of land lost. The Bengal government is betting heavily on the Deocha-Pachami coal block, located in Birbhum’s Mohammedbazar. The coal block is spread over 11,222 acres and has estimated coal reserves of 2.2 billion tonnes. According to government estimates, the project can generate jobs for at least 1.5 lakh people and can act as an engine of economic growth for the entire south Bengal. On November 9, chief minister Mamata Banerjee announced the rehabilitation package worth Rs 10,000 crore that offers at least thrice the land price compared to market rate and a government job as junior constable for each family. The state government has also relaxed the minimum qualification for junior constable in its official notification as many members of the affected families would not be able to meet the educational criteria required.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-95
18-11-2021||West Bengal||Exporters demand ease of passage, knock on Bangladesh official door||Stakeholders of bilateral trade between India and Bangladesh through Mahadipur, a land port in Malda district of Bengal, requested Toufique Hasan, the deputy high commissioner of Bangladesh in Calcutta, to take steps so that the export of goods from India through it can continue round the clock. They also sought initiatives from both countries for a new road between Mahadipur and Sona Masjid in Chapai-Nawabganj of Bangladesh for the ease of trucks. Similar issues, sources said, were raised on Wednesday at the state’s administrative review meeting of North 24-Parganas district, which has Petrapole, the largest land port in terms of trade volume that connects Bangladesh with India. The meeting, which chief minister Mamata Banerjee attended, was held in Madhyamgram. On Wednesday, Hasan visited Mahadipur to check out the activities at the land port. The diplomat took stock of the export process at Mahadipur. Around 300 trucks enter Bangladesh via Mahadipur each day. During the 12-hour-long trade till evening, goods worth around Rs 18 crore are traded, said exporters. “We urged the deputy high commissioner to see to it that the gates remain open for 24 hours. Then we can send at least 500 trucks to Bangladesh,” said Hriday Ghosh, president, of Mahadipur Exporters’ Association. Bhupati Mandal, secretary of the clearing and forwarding agents’ association, they asked for a new road of 500m between Mahadipur and Sona Masjid as the existing road, which passes through an old wall that is part of Malda’s history, is narrow. At the Madhyamgram meeting, it was said that only 150 export trucks entered Bangladesh each day. Hence, hundreds of trucks making beeline to Petrapole and adjoining areas get stuck, causing snarls. Truckers pay detention charges for delay. “It was demanded that at least 700 trucks be allowed to cross the border each day. The chief minister said the state will look into it,” said a source. “The chief secretary and the district administration will speak with central government agencies to facilitate smooth bilateral trade at the border,” said a source. On the issue of 24/7 conducting border trade, a source said: “The order exists but because of the pandemic, export is carried out from dawn to dusk. Round-the-clock trade at the border can be carried on only if situation improves and both countries agree to it.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-95
18-11-2021||West Bengal||862 new Covid-19 infections, 830 recoveries and 8 deaths in Bengal||Bengal on Wednesday reported 862 new Covid19 infections, 830 recoveries and eight deaths, resulting in a rise by 24 in its active cases to 8,051. A minister said new infec¬tions reported on Wednesday indicated people infected be¬tween November 8 and 12 (the day before Jagaddhatri Puja). Calcutta logged 238 new infections and two deaths. North 24Parganas reported 122 new infections and three deaths. These were the only two of the state’s 23 districts with a threedigit figure of new cases found in a day. Seven districts reported a singledigit figure of new infections. Eighteen Bengal districts reported zero deaths. Calcutta, North and South 24Parganas, Howrah, Hooghly and Nadia accounted for 620 or 71.93 per cent of the new infections detected on Wednesday. Over the past 53 days since Bengal snapped out of a 97day fall in active cases or Covid patients under treatment, there has been a net rise of 377 in the state’s total of active cases, from 7,674. The state’s recovery rate is 98.3 per cent, while that of the nation is 98.28. Bengal’s daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.97 per cent on Wednesday. The state’s mortality rate is 1.2 per cent, while that of the nation is 1.33 per cent. Bengal now has over 16.06 lakh Covid19 cases, since the first was logged in March last year. The total includes over 15.79 lakh recoveries and 19,341 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-95
18-11-2021||West Bengal||Fire in Darjeeling garden manager’s bungalow fans suspicions||An empty tea garden manager’s bungalow where the 1979 movie Lahu Ke Do Rang starring Vinod Khan¬na and Shabana Azmi was shot was gutted in a fire in the early hours of Tuesday. But even before the ashes settled, conspiracy theories started swirling in Darjeeling. The fire came under scrutiny because the management of the Kanchan View tea garden, where the bungalow stood, has envisaged a Rs 200 crore resort in the garden, barely 6km from Darjeeling town. Owner  Ajit Agarwala, who filed a case with Darjeeling Sadar police, told this paper the wooden bungalow was gut¬ted to create “fear psychosis” around this new investment. Some local residents, in turn, feel the management might have a hand in the fire to discourage tea plantation and focus more on the upcoming resort. The resort proposal, the management claimed, got the nod after the launch of the state government’s Tea Tou¬rism and Allied Business Policy 2019. Under this, land ceiling for tourism  and commercial projects was increased to 15 per cent of total land with a tea garden, up to 150 acres. Construction can come up only on 40 per cent of land earmarked for a project. Work stopped in October in the estate with 99 workers. Jiten Rai, chief adviser of Gram Sudar Sammelan, a social organisation in the area said: “We, too, cannot blame anyone before investigations are over but we cannot rule out a conspiracy.” “We are not sure whether guards were being properly posted on the property,” Rai added. “We are not against the project (resoirt), but we want all provisions in the tourism policy be followed. Our apprehension is that the garden management may not do it,” said Rai. Residents said under the new tourism policy, only fallow and vacant land can be used for projects such as resorts and that there can be no retrenchment of workforce or curtailment in tea grown areas. “However, over the years, workforce (in this tea garden) has reduced in the garden with no major appointments,” said a trade union leader.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-95
18-11-2021||West Bengal||Observers for 125 civic bodies to keep a tab on councillors||Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday directed the state urban development department to appoint observers for each of 125 municipalities and seven municipal corporations in Bengal to monitor performance of the elected representatives at the civic bodies and submit reports to the government on a regular basis. “I would ask the urban development department to appoint observers at all civic bodies to monitor the performance of the councillors.... The observers will submit reports to the government,” said the chief minister during an administrative review meeting in North 24-Parganas’s Madhyamgram on Wednesday. Mamata made it clear that she was planning to appoint the observers at the civic bodies after she had received several complaints against councillors. “Those who perform will be rewarded, but for others, I have to think,” said the chief minister. The announcement made by the chief minister holds significance as officials said she sent a message to her party’s councillors ahead of the civic polls. “Soon elections will be held to Howrah and Calcutta municipal corporations and remaining 100-odd civic bodies would go to the polls after these two. Ahead of the polls, the chief minister made it clear that the councillors against whom people have grievances might not get ticket this time,” said an official. Another official said Mamata’s decision also hinted that the government would henceforth keep an eye on the day-to-day activities of the civic bodies through the observers. “This will force the civic bodies to work properly and people’s grievances would be redressed on time,” said a source. A ruling party insider said the chief minister sent a message to Trinamul Congress workers, particularly the councillors, after complaints of irregularities were coming up against them. He explained that the theory was applied ahead of Assembly elections when evaluation of all MLAs had been undertaken by I-PAC of Trinamul’s poll consultant Prashant Kishor and based on its recommendations, a number of sitting legislators were denied tickets. “Now, the practice is being institutionalised.... The government would now appoint observers and the councillors would be under scanner throughout the year,” said the Trinamul insider. Mamata outlined the responsibilities of the observers at the civic bodies. “They (the observers) would visit civic areas to find out who is doing what... Where works are being done and where works are pending. They will find this out and send reports directly to Nabanna,” said the chief minister. In a different initiative, Mamata asked district magistrates to appoint 10 nodal officers who would be picked from the corporate world as advisors in 30 departments to run schemes in a professional manner.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-95
18-11-2021||West Bengal||No policing powers unlike state cops, say BSF authorities||The Border Security Force (BSF) on Wednesday said they neither had authority nor the intent to interfere with the law and order of Bengal in a bid to allay misgivings that an extension of its jurisdiction would result in conflict with the state police. “The impression in some quarters that the notification would bring BSF in conflict with state police is baseless," said Yogesh Bahadur Khurania, the additional director general of the BSF in Calcutta on Wednesday. “The enhanced jurisdiction will help the BSF strengthen the hands of the police. The BSF has no policing powers as it does not have powers to register FIR or to carry out an investigation.” His assertion came a day after the Bengal Assembly passed a resolution against the Centre’s decision authorising the BSF to search, seize and arrest within a larger 50km stretch, instead of 15 km, from the international borders in Punjab,  Bengal and Assam. The Mamata Banerjee gov¬ernment claimed it was an attack on the country's federal structure as law and order is a state subject. The Punjab government has already adopted a similar resolution. BSF authorities also refuted the allegations of their personnel outraging the modesty of women during frisking. “Such frisking is only done by women personnel,” a senior BSF officer from north Bengal said, adding that BSF is a disciplined force and any act of indiscipline was dealt with zero tolerance. On Tuesday, Trinamul MLA Udayan Guha in the Assembly accused BSF personnel of misbehaving with women during frisking. ADG Khurania said after the fresh notification the power of BSF remains the same, only the area had increased. “We have no policing powers. Any seizure or apprehension made is to be handed over to state police or any other law enforcement agency. The state police jurisdiction continues to be till the international boundary,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-96
