19-11-2021||West Bengal||Land woes faced by industry irk Mamata, department pulled up||Mamata Banerjee on Thursday pulled up the land department for its delay in clearing land issues related to industry and said her government’s next target was industrialisation as it would generate employment and improve the state’s economic health. “If the process of land papers is delayed, then how will there be industry? You all know that my target now is industry. So many people are promising to invest huge money like Rs 10,000 crore in Howrah. Why will they wait for clearance of land-related issues?” the chief minister asked at an administrative meeting in Howrah on Thursday. In a fresh phase of visiting districts to review administrative works, Mamata met officials and entrepreneurs in Howrah on Thursday. “In the next two years, 822 new industrial projects will come up in Howrah and the total amount of investment would be Rs 10,400 crore. These investments would create 1.16 lakh jobs,” she said addressing local businessmen and entrepreneurs. Mamata said an event would be organised on December 14 in Howrah district where all issues and land-related problems for investors would be resolved. She announced that her government was going to develop a new dairy farm of its own — Banglar Dairy — which senior officials consider as an initiative to promote such industries in the state. “Banglar Dairy is coming up and we have planned to open 512 outlets to sell dairy products like milk, cheese and butter. More than 600 outlets will be opened in a later phase,” said Mamata. A senior official said at the meeting that the government was also inviting private investors to state-run dairy farm projects. Sources said the chief minister had requested the businessmen to give priority to local youths in recruitment. “I will request you to recruit youths from local areas. Our government is training workers to gain skill. You may personally train them but recruit local youths into your units,” said Mamata. A senior official said Mamata had asked the land department not to delay the process of issuing land papers for industries and directed them to take the help of the vigilance wing to weed out irregularities. The chief minister also said her government would issue a Fishermen Credit Card just like Kisan Credit Card in Bengal very soon to help thousands of fishermen get loans and insurance for their investment in fisheries.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-93
19-11-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul guns for a greater say in lawyers’ body to deny BJP a chance||Trinamul Congress’s legal cell on Thursday released a vision document and its panel for elections to the executive committee of the Calcutta High Court Bar Association. The move is in an indication of the party’s keenness to have a greater say in the lawyer fraternity in the high court, which sources in Trinamul attributed to instructions from “the very top”. The association, an apolitical lawyers’ body in the high court with around 7,000 members, is likely to conduct its biennial elections to the 15-member executive committee over a month from next week. Trinamul does not want to leave room for a 2019-like situation, in which the BJP made unprecedented gains in the body that had been traditionally a Congress fief for decades. “Voting for others would mean a waste of votes, so we are appealing for our candidates’ victory,” said Trinamul MP and spokesperson Sukhendu Sekhar Roy. Roy, a former vice-president of the association, said the body had forever been instrumental in the acceleration of the justice-rendering system in the high court, and in trying to ease difficulties of litigants, besides taking in consideration the difficulties faced by practicing lawyers. “We are also trying to give youth a chance, as is evident from our panel,” he added. The Trinamul vision document promises a “brighter future” for the association, with a seven-fold agenda – digitalisation of the association, academic engagement, infrastructure improvement, additional facilities such as air-conditioners for conference rooms and ATMs, financial support for junior advocates, prioritisation of health and hygiene and welfare of members. The last time the elections took place, a BJP-backed panel emerged victorious in the association, with Ashok Kumar Dhandhania as president and Dhiraj Trivedi as secretary. The Congress panel’s candidate Ritzu Ghosal won the post of assistant secretary, Trinamul panel’s Dwarikanath Mukhopadhyay became the treasurer. The BJP-backed panel secured eight of the 15 posts. Trinamul’s Roy attributed the results of the committee’s 2019 election to the context of the BJP’s stunning gains in the Lok Sabha polls in Bengal. “But like in every other key section of society, there has been disillusionment with the BJP among the legal fraternity as well. So, the results this time ought to be quite different,” he said. A Trinamul insider said on the condition of anonymity that the party’s top-tier leadership was taking keen interest in the association election this time. “Whichever panel gets two out of the three key posts of president, secretary and treasurer controls the association. This time, we have encouragement from the very top to leave no stone unturned to ensure the BJP’s decimation,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-94
19-11-2021||West Bengal||No minutes released for Gorkha talks attended by Amit Shah||The Union home ministry apparently did not issue any “minutes” after the much-hyped October 12 meeting that Union home minister Amit Shah had chaired to discuss the resolution of Gorkha issues, the response to an RTI application has revealed. The RTI reply by Renu Sarin, central public information officer and also director of Centre-state relations, Union ministry of home affairs, states: “No minutes has been issued in respect of the meeting convened by the Central Government on 12.10.2021 to discuss the matter regarding the resolution of issues related to Gorkhas.” The response to the RTI query filed by a resident of Darjeeling has created a flutter in the political landscape of the hills. Keshav Raj Pokhrel, spokesman, Bharatiya Gorkha Prajatantrik Morcha (BGPM), who revealed the content at a media conference, said he was taking “full responsibility of the veracity of the RTI contents”. This newspaper was also shown a copy of the response by leaders of the BGPM but since the applicant’s name has not been revealed, the same could not be independently verified. “The RTI query was filed by a resident of Darjeeling but we do not want to disclose his name. The content of the RTI response clearly suggests that the meeting conveyed by the BJP-led Centre was only an eyewash,” said Pokhrel. In its 2019 Lok Sabha election manifesto, the BJP had promised “a permanent political solution” for the hills without clearly defining the PPS. According to Pokhrel, the RTI applicant had also inquired whether Union home minister Shah had given any assurance on the formation of Gorkhaland. “The applicant also wanted to know if there were any assurances on granting tribal status to 11 Gorkha communities, whether regional leaders who participated in the talks demanded Gorkhaland among others,” said Pokhrel. Regarding other queries, the RTI reply says the information sought did not fall within the definition of “information” under the RTI Act. “Why this secrecy? What is there to hide from the general public. The reply clearly suggests the BJP will not grant anything to the hill people and is only making the hill people go round and round,” said Pokhrel. Neeraj Zimba, Darjeeling BJP MLA, who also attended the talks, said rival parties were trying to misinterpret the content of the RTI reply. “The RTI reply says minutes have not been issued. It has not been said that the minutes of the meeting have not been recorded, written. The minutes have been recorded, it will be recorded when a meeting is chaired by the Union home minister, but probably because of some reasons like security, confidentiality, the Union home ministry probably believes it should not be in the public domain,” said Zimba.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-94
19-11-2021||West Bengal||Tribals of Deocha-Pachami coal zone greet BJP with protest ||A BJP delegation headed by the party’s state vice-president, Raju Banerjee, who came to interact with tribal people in the proposed Deocha-Pachami coal mine area, was greeted with black flags by a group of local residents who accused the saffron camp of trying to halt the project. Although there was no Trinamul Congress flag with the protesters, BJP leaders accused the ruling party of arranging the demonstration. “Trinamul people showed us black flags and tried to prevent us from entering the area,” said Raju Banerjee. However, after intervention of police, the BJP team was allowed to enter the tribal villages of Pachami and the leaders went around three hamlets for over two hours. On Thursday morning, BJP leaders, including Banerjee, national secretary of BJP’s ST Morcha Khudiram Tudu and Sonali Murmu, reached the Deocha-Pachami coal mine area to interact with the tribal people. Near Deocha bus stand, the cars of the BJP leaders were stopped by a group of around 50 villagers who raised “go-back” slogans and accused the leaders of trying to provoke local people against the project. “This coal-mine project will bring employment and prosperity to our area. But the BJP leaders were trying to provoke the local people against the project. So, we came to protest with black flags as none should stop development of the area,” said Santigopal Banerjee, a resident of Deocha who denied any connection with Trinamul. After visiting a few houses of villagers in three tribal hamlets, Raju Banerjee said they would not allow the project to happen as it would affect poor people. “The local people do not trust this state government. Mamata Banerjee, who once accused the Left Front government of taking decisions sitting in Calcutta, has forgotten about Singur or Nandigram. We demand that the government hold dialogue with every villager. We are not against the industry but will not allow poor and tribal people to be deprived of their rights,” Raju Banerjee said. On a day BJP leaders visited Deocha, a BJP mandal president of the coal mine zone Lakshmiram Hansda joined Trinamul in presence of Birbhum district party chief Anubrata Mondal. BJP leaders, however, said he was forced to switch sides following threats from Trinamul and the police. “BJP leaders came to instigate the local people who have welcomed Mamata Banerjee’s rehabilitation package. Lakshmiram, who was a BJP leader in Mohammedbazar, joined our party to support the development drive in his area,” said Mondal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-94
19-11-2021||West Bengal||BSF clarifies on women frisking, 757 female guards posted along border||Senior officials of the Border Security Force posted in north Bengal on Thursday underscored the presence of female personnel in the force and frisking of women on the frontier was carried out only by them. “As of now, 757 female guards are posted along the Bangladesh border in north Bengal. They are efficiently guarding the border round-the-clock. Also, frisking of women is carried out by the female personnel,” said Ravi Gandhi, inspector general of the north Bengal frontier of the BSF. He was talking to newspersons at the frontier headquarters in Kadamtala, on the outskirts of Siliguri. Sources in the BSF said another 934 women personnel were undergoing training at the subsidiary training centre of the force at Salugara in Siliguri. Gandhi has said the paramilitary force has zero tolerance policy when it comes to sexual harassment. “We are a disciplined force and have a zero tolerance policy for any sexual harassment act by our personnel. The BSF Act is very powerful on the issue and also, local police have powers under CrPC in this regard,” the IG added. On November 16, Trinamul Congress MLA of Dinhata, Udayan Guha, had alleged that BSF personnel behaved indecently with women in the name of checking. In the current year, 125 infiltrators and 133 smugglers have been apprehended in areas under the frontier so far and contraband items, including snake venom, narcotic, cough syrus and cattle worth Rs 1.91 crore were seized, sources said. In Calcutta, BJP MLAs, led by Suvendu Adhikari, the leader of opposition in the Assembly, visited the south Bengal frontier headquarters of the BSF at Newtown on Thursday. They greeted the BSF personnel with flowers and sweets and thanked them for guarding the international border. Additional reporting by Arkamoy Datta Majumdar in Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-94
19-11-2021||West Bengal||860 fresh Covid-19 cases, 825 recoveries & 14 deaths in Bengal||Bengal on Thursday reported 860 Covid-19 cases, 825 recoveries and 14 deaths, resulting in a rise by 21 in its total of active cases to 8,072. Over the past 54 days — since Bengal snapped out of a 97day streak of constant fall in the total of active cases ahead of the Puja season on September 26 — the state recorded a rise in its total of active cases for 32 days and a fall for 21 days. In these 54 days – deemed the core of the long autumnal festive spell, including not only the various Puja days but also the preceding and succeeding weeks — there has been a net rise of 398 in the state’s total of active cases, from 7,674. A minister said the number of new cases on Thursday was indicative of people who had got infected in the November 9 (five days after Kali Puja) to 13 (Jagaddhatri Puja) window. On Thursday, Calcutta reported 233 infections and North 24Parganas 161, the only two of the state’s 23 districts with a threedigit figure of new cases found. Eight districts reported a single digit figure. The state’s recovery rate is 98.29 per cent, while that of the nation is 98.28. Calcutta, North and South 24Parganas, Howrah, Hooghly and Nadia accounted for 611 – 71.05 per cent – of the new infections detected on Thursday. The daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.95 per cent on Thursday. Seventeen Bengal districts reported zero deaths. Calcutta reported five, while North 24Parganas reported three. The state’s mortality rate is 1.2, while that of the nation is 1.33 per cent. Bengal now has over 16.07 lakh Covid19 cases, since the first was logged in March last year. The total includes over 15.8 lakh recoveries and 19,355 casualties.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-94
