20-11-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Guv asks Mitra to bring white paper on investments received from business summits||West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Saturday asked Amit Mitra to come out with a white paper on details of investments received from five editions of Bengal Global Business Summit (BGBS), alleging that the former state finance minister's "misplaced eloquent economic optical illusions have been a heavy drain on development". He also questioned why were the BGBS details hidden after assertions of "resounding success". Mitra, who has been appointed chief economic adviser to Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee after he relinquished the finance portfolio recently, had refuted Dhankhar's accusation that he had not responded to queries on investments proposed in the five editions of BGBS, saying he had given details of these in a letter to the governor. "Your reliance on four-page communication is misplaced as it does not in the least even advert to the five issues flagged, much less render response," the governor wrote in a letter to Mitra on Friday. Dhankhar and Mitra have been engaged in a verbal duel over the success of the business summits. "There just can be no rationale for not rendering details of the much projected investment of over Rs 12.30 lac crores in five BGBS editions. Why hide BGBS details after assertions of 'resounding success'!" the governor wrote. "Why not reveal achievements and expenses qua each BGBS event since 2016 as regards actual investment made, and jobs created?," Dhankhar said. He asked Mitra to come out with "full disclosure on BGBS" at the earliest by way of a white paper. "Sought response @DrAmitMitra as his misplaced eloquent economic optical illusions have been a heavy drain on development, transparency and accountability in the state," Dhankhar tweeted on Saturday along with a copy of the letter to Mitra. For investment, governance must be in "accord with constitutional norms and with respect to democratic values and human rights", he wrote on the microblogging site. "The situation on all these counts, as is open secret, is far from satisfactory," he said. Dhankhar had on November 9 called upon the Mamata Banerjee government to come out with a white paper on BGBS with details of investments attracted from the business summits and expressed concern at the alleged lack of response from the then state finance minister on the information sought by him in August last year. He had attached a copy of his letter to the chief minister dated August 25, 2020, along with his tweet. Mitra too posted the copy of his four-page letter written on September 24, 2020, in reply to the governor's queries and questioned whether he was "suffering from amnesia". The former finance minister described the governor's tweet on business summits as "a classic case of Dr Jekyll & Mr Hyde". The two names, the two alter egos of the main character in the 1886 book by Scottish author Robert Louis Stevenson, have become over the years shorthand for contradictory behaviour. The Trinamul Congress government is preparing for holding another edition of BGBS early next year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-92
20-11-2021||West Bengal||Tathagata Roy bids 'farewell' to BJP Bengal unit for time being||Senior BJP leader Tathagata Roy, who has been lashing out at the party's Bengal leadership since the assembly poll debacle, on Saturday said he has decided to bid "farewell" to the state unit of the saffron camp for the time being, apparently indicating that he would stop criticism of its leaders. Roy said he would wait to see the municipal poll results in Bengal. According to sources close to him, the term farewell doesn't mean that he is leaving the party. Roy was trying to say that he would stop attacking the state leadership for the time being as his criticism led to an embarrassment to the party, the sources said. Earlier this week, the former governor of Meghalaya had said the party would become extinct if the state unit did not mend its ways. "I was not writing on Twitter to get applause from people. I was doing this to make the party aware of the fact that some leaders got swayed by women and wealth. Now only results will speak. I will wait for the results of the municipal polls. Farewell, for now, West Bengal BJP! Roy said on the microblogging site on Saturday. State BJP leaders declined to comment on the development. "BJP's well-wishers pointed out that I should make complaints about money and women within the party and not publicly. I politely tell them that the time has passed. The BJP can do whatever it wants to me. But if they do not radically reform their way of functioning, the extinction of the party in Bengal is inevitable," Roy tweeted earlier this week. Roy had asserted that he would continue to play the role of his party's "conscience-keeper" after BJP national vice-president Dilip Ghosh told him that he was free to leave the camp if he was "upset and ashamed" over its style of functioning. Roy had recently been critical of the decisions taken by BJP's West Bengal minder Kailash Vijayvargiya, Ghosh, and senior leaders Arvind Menon and Shiv Prakash, ahead of March-April assembly polls, and blamed them in a series of tweets for the saffron camp's poor show in the last assembly elections. The BJP won only 77 seats of the 294-member West Bengal assembly in the last elections.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-92
20-11-2021||West Bengal||Dose 2 urgency with jab on doorstep ||The Bengal government has decided to start a door-to-door vaccination drive after it found that a large number of people have missed the second dose of the Covid19 vaccine within deadline. “The door-to-door vaccination drive will be for those who have missed the second dose of vaccine within the stipulated time frame,” said a senior government official. According to a state health department report, till Monday, 18,09,884 people in Bengal did not take second dose of vaccine on time. Among these 18.09 lakh, 4,80,870 did not take the second dose of Covaxin within four to six weeks and 13,29,014 people did not take second dose of Covishield within 84 days from the first dose. Till Friday, 8,62,98,114 Covid19 vaccine doses were given in Bengal, of which 6,09,02,147 people have received the first dose and 2,53,95,967 the second dose. The state has to administer 14 crore doses to give two doses of vaccines to nearly seven crore people aged over 18. “As so many people missed the second dose of vaccine on time, it has become a headache for us because  the aim of the vaccination drive would be thrown out of gear if so many people don’t take the second dose. The timely second dose is required to get the full benefits of the vaccine,” said a senior government official. The issue came up during a virtual meeting between chief secretary, H. K. Dwivedi and district magistrates on Friday. “Some district magistrates proposed a door-to-door vaccination drive for those who had missed the second dose. It was agreed that the initiative would be taken up at the earliest,” said a senior official. Health department sources said many in the districts who received the first dose didn’t know about the second. Also, a significant number of people did not feel the need for the second dose once Covid cases started going down.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-92
20-11-2021||West Bengal||Hooghly  farmer lauds protesters' zeal after farm laws withdrawal||Over 1,800km away from the epicenter of farmers’ movement near Delhi, Somnath Ghosh, 58, a farmer from Hooghly’s Chanditala celebrated on Friday the victory of the anti-farm law movement with fellow farmers. Ghosh, who had stayed for five days with the protesters at the Shahjahanpur border last  November, also shared his memories. “I vividly recall the dedication of the thousands of farmers, with whom I spent five days in November last year. The temperature was some 2-3 degrees Celsius, but the farmers, including women, were firm in their protest on the Delhi-Jaipur highway. Many of them did not have enough warm clothes, but they were unflinching in the fight for their rights. The Prime Minister had no way out. This (promise to repeal the laws) had to happen sooner or later,” said Ghosh whose phone was inundated with calls from farmers of nearby villages, since the morning announcement by Narendra Modi. The Hooghly farmer got the news from television that Modi had announced the decision to repeal the three contentious farm laws. Since then, Ghosh started visiting other farmers with the message that if there is total dedication in the movement for a just cause, success will come. Ghosh, a resident of the Madhupur village of Chanditala, cultivates four acres of land. He had accompanied a 400-member team of farmers, headed by the All India Kisan Sabha, to extend support to the protesters last year. During his stay with the protesting farmers, he witnessed how farmers cutting across caste and creed joined forces to fight together, against all odds, for their rights. Ghosh said he and other farmers from Bengal could not meet the farmers protesting on Singhu border as police had put up barricades and iron spikes, barbed wire fences and concrete walls to keep them out. “I, along with a few other farmers from Hooghly and East Burdwan, were discussing how police were so afraid of the protests by farmers that set up roadblocks usually meant for infiltrators on international borders,” said the farmer. Ghosh said he heard farmer leaders such as Amra Ram, Hannan Mollah and Rakesh Tikait speak of their unwavering in their resolve to continue the movement till the BJP-led Centre yielded. “I talked personally to farmers from Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Haryana… everyone said just one thing, that they were ready for a fight to the finish. An 80-year-old farmer did not leave the protest site even when the temperature was 2 degrees outside,” he said. He said it was “glorious”, to see 1,000 women driving tractors for a rally to Delhi. “A thousand women were taking training to drive the tractors. Within two or three hours of effort, many managed to get the vehicles moving,” he said. Bhaktaram Pan, a former CPM MLA from Chanditala and central committee member of the Kisan Sabha who led the team of the farmers to Delhi, said the movement sent a firm message to Modi that the farmers would not allow themselves to get divided over faith, caste or language. “Despite the BJP government always playing divisive politics, in the case of the farmers’ movement, the protests showed that their only religion was agriculture. The unity of the farmers brought the victory,” he said. Bengal witnessed two major farmers’ movements in Singur and Nandigram against the setting up of industries on farm land, against the will of the farmers during the Left regime. On Friday, the All India Kisan Sabha organised victory rallies in around 700 places across Bengal, and convened a farmers’ meeting in each block on November 26. “Today (Friday), it was the spontaneous reaction from the farmers of Bengal, who arranged the 700 rallies to celebrate the victory of protesting farmers. We will conduct a block-wise rally with farmers across the state, in a week from now,” said Amal Haldar, state secretary of the All India Kisan Sabha. Former CPM MLA Sujan Chakraborty led a rally in Uchhepota in South 24-Parganas. The Left’s students wing SFI (Bengal unit) also took out a rally from its Calcutta headquarters to celebrate the victory. Several other platforms, such as the Bangla Sanskriti Mancha also celebrated Modi’s announcement of repealing the farm laws on Friday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-93
20-11-2021||West Bengal||250 tribal leaders get details of Deocha-Pachami package||The Birbhum district administration on Friday handed over the details of the Deocha-Pachami rehabilitation package in writing to over 250 tribal leaders, heads of tribal hamlets and other stakeholders, assuring them that the state government would not force anyone for land, and instead reach every doorstep with an appeal for help to start the coal mine project. Senior officials, headed by Birbhum district magistrate Bidhan Ray, police chief Nagendra Nath Tripathi and zilla parishad chief Bikash Roychowdhury, officially announced the details of the rehabilitation package before prominent tribal leaders, heads of 18 tribal hamlets, and others. All participants of the meeting were given the details of the package in writing in three languages, English, Bengali, and the Ol-Chiki script. “This is the first time we handed over the official copy of the rehabilitation package for the stakeholders of the Deocha-Pachami coal mine project. It is a first step and discussions will go on. We asked the stakeholders to discuss the package in their own areas and come back to us in case of suggestions,” said district magistrate Ray. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on November 9 announced the rehabilitation package for the Deocha-Pachami coal mine project in the Assembly, and said her government would not use coercion to get land, such as in Singur during the Left regime. “We have clarified to people that the government is not going to acquire their land with force, but take their land with due consent and give them the best return for it. We will go from hamlet to hamlet, and our officials would reach every doorstep to clear the doubts of people before starting the work,” added Ray. The state government has announced that the first phase of work for the coal mine would start on government-owned land and it would purchase the rest from the local residents in phases. The West Bengal Power Development Corporation Limited, the state-run power generation utility that would implement the coal mine project, will open a camp office to address questions and doubts of people from Monday. “The camp office will be started out of Suri’s WBPDCL guest house. Later, we will  open another office near the villages (to be affected by the project),” said a senior official. Sources said the government was keenly awaiting the response of the tribal people. “In today’s (Friday’s) meeting, we only listened to them (the officials). We need to discuss it (the package) among ourselves. We will come up with our proposals later,” said Ghasiram Hembram, district president of the Bharat Jakat Majhi Pargana Mahal. Tribal leaders Rabin Soren and Sunil Soren of the Birbhum Adivasi Gaonta were also present at the meeting. “Today (Friday) was not for asking questions, as it was the first time we got copies of the rehabilitation package. Government officials assured us that they would listen to our suggestions too,” said tribal leader Sunil Soren.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-93
20-11-2021||West Bengal||1 dead as two groups of  Trinamul supporters clash in Jalpaiguri||One person died of injuries, four others were hospitalised with injuries and five houses were torched in recurring clashes over a plot of land between two groups of Trinamul supporters at a village  on the outskirts of Jalpaiguri town since Thursday. Police rushed to the spot and brought the situation under control. Five persons have been arrested so far. However, policemen have been deployed in the area to prevent any recurrence of the violence. Sources said Majmuddin, a resident of Shubhachanipara village which is under Jalpaiguri Sadar block, had a dispute with another resident, Ayub Ali, over the possession of a plot measuring around 27 bighas. Both are Trinamul supporters of the locality. “We have all necessary documents of the land but for the past 40 years, Ayub Ali and his family have captured the land. We have approached Shahjahan Alam, the upa-pradhan (deputy chief) of Garalbari panchayat (under which the village falls) so that we get the land. He had even taken money from us but did nothing. We have also learnt that he has also taken money from the other side as well,” alleged Asma Parvin, a family member of Majmuddin. On Thursday, she said, Majmuddin, along with some others, went to take possession of the land. As the news spread, Ayub Ali and his associates reached the spot to prevent them. Both sides clashed and five persons got injured. Fifty-year-old Majmuddin sustained serious injuries in the clash and was rushed to the super-specialty hospital in Jalpaiguri and later shifted to a private nursing home in Siliguri. He died on Friday.  The other four injured are still being treated at the super-specialty hospital, she said. His death triggered some residents in the village who then attacked the house of Ayub Ali and his family on Friday. Five houses were torched as the occupants fled the spot to save themselves. Also, the granaries in these houses stocked with paddy and two motorcycles were set on fire. The villagers got so angry that they did not even let fire engines enter the village. Policemen, led by Palash Chandra Dhali, the additional superintendent of police of Jalpaiguri, reached the spot and brought the situation under control. Alam, the Trinamul leader, however, has denied the charges of taking money from both sides and not resolving their land dispute. “Some people are trying to tarnish my image. Those who are making such claims should furnish proof. It is nothing but a conspiracy of other parties,” he said. Police said five persons have been arrested so far. “Raids are on to nab some others. Investigations are on,” said an officer. Asked, Ajijul Hakim, a relative of Ayub Ali claimed that the land belongs to Ali. “We also own a portion of the land sold by Majimuddin’s father. We don’t know why the family is claiming ownership of the land now,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-93
20-11-2021||West Bengal||Tiger drags away 69-year-old crab hunter, sons helplessly look on||A royal Bengal tiger dragged away a 69-year-old fisherman into the mangrove forests of the Sunderbans as his two sons helplessly watched, when the trio went to hunt crabs in a creek on Friday morning. Hazari Mondal, a resident of the Chargheri village of Satjelia island in Gosaba, had gone crab-hunting with his sons Chittaranjan and Subhas. He remains traceless till late on Friday. He is the third person in the past five days who fell prey to a tiger attack in the Sunderbans. On Thursday, Lakhai Naskar, 39, a fisherman who went to hunt crabs in the Kultali area, had been injured by a tiger and later died on the way to a hospital. On Sunday, another fisherman from Gosaba was seriously injured by a tiger, when he went crab-hunting in the Pirkhali creek. He remains admitted to a Calcutta-based hospital. Sunderbans tiger reserve officials said Mondal and his two sons went in their indigenous boat to catch crabs in  Chilmari creek under the Jhila forest range without permission. They got off their boats and were gathering crabs when the tiger attacked the father and dragged him away. “The fisherman had no permission to enter the forest areas for fishing. We have been campaigning regularly, requesting the fishermen not to take small creeks and enter the areas frequented by tigers,” said Jones Justin, deputy field director of the Sunderbans tiger reserve. The villagers said poor people of the areas usually go to the creeks to catch fish or crabs in order to make some money, and often fall prey to big cats. “It is well known that the tigers of the Sunderbans are man-eaters. Poor villagers become victims of tiger attacks as they go through narrow creeks where it is easier for tigers to attack. It has become frequent in the Sunderbans lately,” said schoolteacher Umashankar Mondal, a resident of Chargheri.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-93
20-11-2021||West Bengal||Bengal reports 877 new Covid cases, 833 recoveries, nine deaths ||Bengal on Friday reported 877 new Covid-19 infections, 833 recoveries and nine deaths, resulting in a rise by 35 in its active cases to 8,107. Over the past 55 days, since Bengal snapped out of a 97-day fall in active cases or number of Covid patients under treatment ahead of the Puja season on September 26, the state recorded a rise in its total of active cases for 33 days and a fall for 21 days. In these 55 days, there has been a net rise of 433 in the state’s total of active cases, from 7,674. A minister said new infections reported on Friday indicated people infected in the November 10 (six days after Kali Puja) to November 14 (the day after Jagaddhatri Puja) window. Calcutta reported 242 new infections and North 24-Parganas reported 158. Both reported two deaths. These are the only two of the state’s 23 districts with a three-digit figure of new cases found. Six districts reported a single-digit figure. Calcutta, North and South 24-Parganas, Howrah, Hooghly and Nadia accounted for 659 or 75.14 per cent of the new infections detected on Friday. Seventeen Bengal districts reported zero deaths. The state’s recovery rate is 98.29 per cent, while that of the nation is 98.28. The daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.98 per cent on Friday. The state’s mortality rate is 1.2 per cent, while that of the nation is 1.33 per cent. Bengal now has over 16.08 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was logged in March last year. The total includes nearly 15.81 lakh recoveries and 19,364 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-93
20-11-2021||West Bengal||Hills leader relies on social media mandate to decide party name||Thousands from Darjeeling and across the globe are voting through WhatsApp, SMS, Facebook, Twitter, Instagram and email not for a reality show contest but to choose a name for a political party. Ajoy Edwards, a former GNLF leader who has decided to launch his own party, has come up with an innovative and engaging strategy to formalise his party’s name. On Thursday evening, Edwards posted a video on his Facebook page and suggested four names and requested people to choose a name for the party. “This will be a party for the people and one that carries the people’s vision," Edwards said. He said that he had sought suggestions for the party’s name and received a total of 122 suggestions from people. Of them, Edwards and his team shortlisted Jan Shakti, Janta Kalyan Party, Jan Awaaz and Hamro Party. Edwards’ call for people’s participation has been overwhelming. “Till now we have received 23,000 comments,” Edwards said around 1pm on Friday. “Many are also suggesting that the word Gorkha should be included and we are open to feedback.” Comments and the choice of name can be sent till November 24. “On November 25, we will make public from Mirik the name that people have chosen for the party. Out of the four, I like one name (the most) but now the name of our party depends on the people’s choice,” said Edwards. The party’s flag will also be unveiled before the public that day. However, the party will not be launched on November 25, the hill leader said. “Our steering committee will decide the date of our party’s launch,” said Edwards. The launch of the party would be through a medical camp for workers of the closed Peshok tea garden, about 30km from Darjeeling. “We will launch the party while doing social work. We have also decided that we will not come up with a fancy flag. The money needed to print such flags can be used to help the poor,” said Edwards. Edwards’ team is looking at coming up with a flag which one can make at one’s own home. Edwards, despite being actively involved with the Gorkha National Liberation Front for the last few years, is known for his philanthropy and has managed to create a strong base of well-wishers in the region. The former GNLF Darjeeling branch committee president quit the party after alleging that his childhood friend and GNLF president Mann Ghisingh had betrayed him after using him. The decision of Edwards resigning from the GNLF, which is also an ally of the BJP, hit the regional party hard. An exodus of leaders from the GNLF followed with many pledging their support to Edwards. Many said that they had joined the party because they were impressed by Edwards and his social work.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-93
20-11-2021||West Bengal||Buxa conservatory with 400 species of butterfly draws large crowd||The butterfly conservatory set up  last year by the state forest department at Rajabhatkhawa in Buxa Tiger Reserve of Alipurduar district is drawing hundreds of visitors every day. Tourists to eastern Dooars as well as residents of Alipurduar and Cooch Behar are visiting what’s popularly called butterfly park. Around 100-150 visit on weekdays and upto 350 on weekends. According to sources in the state forest department around 400 species of butterflies have been spotted in the conservatory so far. “In the past one month alone, around 50 species of colourful butterflies have been spotted here. We hope the number of species will go up,” said Tamaghna Sengupta, in-charge of the conservatory. Among the butterfly species are Blue Tiger, Common Crow, Great Eggfly, Striped Tiger, Common Birdwing and Gray Panjim. In north Bengal, there are two other similar centres, one located at Ramsai which is on the fringes of Gorumara National Park in Jalpaiguri district, and the other in Kulik Bird Sanctuary area on the outskirts of Raiganj town in North Dinajpur district. “However, the butterfly park here in Rajabhatkhawa has surpassed the other two parks in terms of the number of species. It has been decided that plants of flax, curry, power-puff, allamanda and cuphea would be planted as butterflies prefer these species,” Sengupta added. He said every day, hundreds of visitors are pouring in at the conservatory to see the species and click pictures. “Our department has already published some books on the butterflies of Buxa and there are plans to come up with some more books. There is also a plan to set up a selfie zone and a curio centre here. Also, pictures of types of butterflies will be displayed at the park so that people can learn more about the species,” the forest official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-93
20-11-2021||West Bengal||Farm laws repealed: Mamata says it is farmers’ victory ||Mamata Banerjee and her party on Friday celebrated the decision of the Narendra Modi government at the Centre to repeal the three contentious farm laws, hailing it as a victory of the agitating farmers. “My heartfelt congratulations to every single farmer who fought relentlessly and were not fazed by the cruelty with which @BJP4India treated you. This is YOUR VICTORY!” said the Bengal chief minister in a statement issued on Twitter. “My deepest condolences to everyone who lost their loved ones in this fight. #FarmLaws,” she added in her post on the microblogging site. Mamata and the Trinamul Congress had thrown their weight firmly behind the cause of the agitating farmers and the party carried out a slew of programmes since last December. She had sent multiple delegations to meet the protestors on the ground and had spoken to many of them over the phone, lauding them for the movement and expressing solidarity. “More power to all our FARMERS! Their long and arduous struggle, their grit and determination against all adversities has shown @BJP4India their true place,” tweeted Mamata’s nephew Abhishek Banerjee, who is also Trinamul’s national general-secretary. “This is the real POWER OF DISSENT in a Democracy and I salute each and every farmer for their courage. #MyIndia,” he added. After winning her third consecutive term in power, defeating the BJP in Bengal, Mamata had met the Bharatiya Kisan Union leadership, including Rakesh Tikait and Yudhvir Singh, in the state secretariat. Sections of the agitating farmers had actively campaigned against the BJP in Bengal, in the run-up to the Assembly election. She also had been in regular touch with the Shiromani Akali Dal – one of the oldest NDA allies, which withdrew over the laws – leadership over the movement. On January 28 this year, the Bengal Assembly passed a resolution demanding the repeal of the farm laws, as the chief minister demanded resignations of the Prime Minister and Union home minister Amit Shah, should they fail to give in to the demands of the agitating farmers. Sources in Trinamul said Mamata was among the first, last year, to see in the issue, and the protests, an opportunity to politically corner the BJP with a severity it has not experienced since coming to power in 2014. “She had said in November last year, in several closed-door meetings, that this issue had the potential for becoming the beginning of the end for the BJP. She had said that even the nationwide protests against the citizenship matrix had that potential, but that movement was brought to a grinding halt, most unfortunately, by the Covid-19 outbreak,” said a Trinamul vice-president. “She had complete faith in the ability of the farmers’ movement to bring the Modi government to its knees before the crucial elections in Uttar Pradesh, more so in the wake of how shaky the BJP became following its Bengal debacle this summer…. She never abandoned the issue, and kept revisiting it in every major public address,” he added. “According to her, now that they are on the retreat, their so-called juggernaut will soon be exposed as a house of cards.” Trinamul’s national spokesperson Sukhendu Sekhar Roy held a news conference on behalf of the party, demanding a public apology from Modi regarding the death of 700-odd participants in the protests, and calling out the announcement as being “nothing short of a poll gimmick”. “This is the victory of every farmer’s grit and determination who has shown the government its place. Our farmers have taught India the power of dissent and resilience,” said Rajya Sabha member Roy, going on to demand firm action against the accused in the Lakhimpur Kheri incident. “Was he (Modi) waiting for this right time, only to mobilise votes?” he asked. Singur farmers celebrate Farmers, who had launched an anti-land acquisition movement against the Left regime woven  around the proposed Tata Nano car factory in 2008, on Friday celebrated with abir and sweets the victory of farmers after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced that his government would repeal the three farm laws. The emotive appeal of the Singur farmers’ movement, which Mamata Banerjee had backed, is seen as one of the major forces that put an end to 34 years of Left rule in Bengal and catapulted Mamata to power in the state. Dudh Kumar Dhara, a known face of the Singur movement and now a Trinamul panchayat samity member, said that the farmers of Singur could relate to Friday’s victory. “We know how it feels when we get success after a long movement. Today (on Friday) we are recalling the victory that we got in 2008,” said Dhara. Awnnodatadeyr awnnor odhikar Phiriye ditey hobeyi Maath — matitey — jomi prantawrey Krishikhetro jagbeyi Deerghodineyr andoloneyr phawshol Tomadeyr jeeboneyr shwapno Kerey nitey chaileyo byartho hawbey na Ouddhawtyo — awhonkar bhawgno Roudro — brishti — jhawrjhawnjhaay Kawto raat gyachhey periye Awstror jhawnkar kerey nilo praan Mritodeho laashknatay joriye. Tobuto thamoni, thamoni tomra Lorey gyachho aapon gourawbey Tai toh aaj joyee holey tomra Obhinawndon shawngrami   shourawbhey Translation: The right to rice of the rice-growers Must be restored The field — in the soil — in the land  of the plains Agriculture will certainly awaken The harvest of a movement of many days The dream of your lives Will not be futile even if they want  to snatch it away Arrogance — broken vanity In sunlight — rainfall — storms So many nights have gone past The rattling of weapons snatched lives Cadaver wrapped in corpse-thorns. Despite that, you did not stop,  stop you didn’t You kept fighting in your own glory That is why you are victorious today Congratulations in the fragrance  of struggle.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-93
20-11-2021||West Bengal||100 Bengal dropouts migrate to other states for livelihood ||Around 100 students, mostly in higher secondary classes from two villages of North Dinajpur district, have dropped out of the education system, their studies and have migrated to other states to earn during the 20-month Covid-induced closure of schools and colleges. These students are from Biramhinkhanda and Rudrakhanda, two villages located under Raiganj Sadar block close to the Bihar border. The matter has come to the notice of the school authorities and officials of the district education department. The migration of  students has made them draw up a plan to meet their families and to bring the dropouts back to school. “Because of the Covid-19 pandemic, many people lost their jobs and we have heard about many students, mostly from poor families, engaging in odd jobs to make some money and help out their families. But in these two villages, the situation is entirely different. The students who were in Classes XI and XII, have not got into odd jobs in a temporary manner but have left their homes and are working in other states. There are at least 50 such students of my school who have turned into migrant workers,” said Tamin Soren, the teacher-in-charge of Maharaja Jagadishnath High School, a higher secondary school in Raiganj town. “My father was a daily-rated worker and lost his job amid the pandemic. I was supposed to appear for my higher secondary examination this year but as the income of my family dried up, I had no other option but to try for a job. I came in contact with some people who helped me to get the job of a construction worker in Hyderabad. I cannot afford to continue with my studies,” said Humayan Ali, a resident of Birhaminkhanda, said over phone. Ali is staying in Hyderabad for around six months now and earns Rs 700 a day. Similar is the situation of Titun Roy, another youth from the village. Titun’s father used to work on contract in a private firm in Raiganj town. “During the lockdown, I lost my job. We somehow managed to arrange two square meals by farming on our small plot but in the past few months, it was tough to run the family,” Swapan, Titun’s father, said. As he is over 50 years old, his son who offered to migrate to Hyderabad. Titun said he was aware that the schools have opened and he also wants to continue with his studies. “But I cannot leave my job because I am the main earner in my family now. My father makes some earnings but those are irregular,” Titun said over the phone. The residents of these villages said many others like them have left for far-flung places like Kerala, Delhi, Haryana and Punjab to get a job so that they can run their families. Soren, the headmaster, said he has started meeting the families of the students who have stopped their studies. “I understand their situation but then the parents can find some alternatives so that these boys can at least finish their class XII,” he said. Nitai Chandra Das, the district inspector of schools (secondary) of North Dinajpur, said they also had information about these boys. “We will speak to them and also with their families. The idea is to bring them back to school so that they can continue their studies,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-93
