21-11-2021||West Bengal||Teachers' body members who consumed 'poison' during protest against Bengal govt join TMC||Members of a contractual teachers' association, including five women who had allegedly consumed poison during a demonstration to protest against their transfers by the West Bengal government under Chief Minister Mamata Banrerjee, joined the ruling Trinamul Congress on Sunday.  Several members of Sikshak Aikya Mukta Mancha (Teachers' Unity Open Forum) were welcomed to the party by state Education Minister Bratya Basu at a programme in South 24 Parganas' Diamond Harbour.  Five contractual teachers of the forum had in August allegedly consumed poison while demonstrating before the state education department headquarters in Salt Lake, protesting against their transfers by the government to far-off districts.  They had then alleged that the transfers were linked to their participation in earlier agitations over their demands, including an increase in monthly emoluments.  Several members of the association had earlier held protests at various places including in front of ministers' residences and even wading a canal behind Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee's Kalighat home with placards.  Leader of the organisation, Moidul Islam, against whom the police had slapped a case of incitement to commit suicide, said the state government has assured that it will look into their demands sympathetically.  "We find the Centre's education policy is more against the interests of teachers and so we have decided to join the Trinamul Congress to fight against it," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-91
21-11-2021||West Bengal||TMC leader Sayani Ghosh arrested on attempt to murder charge||Tripura police on Sunday arrested West Bengal Trinamool Congress leader Sayani Ghosh, who allegedly threatened Chief Minister Biplab Kumar Deb during a meeting here on Saturday night, on the charge of attempting to murder, a police official said. Ghosh, the youth unit secretary of TMC West Bengal, was arrested after being called in for questioning in a police station in the state capital Agartala. The development took place a day before a planned visit by the TMC's national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee to the North-eastern state. Sub-divisional Police Officer (Sadar) Ramesh Yadav said Ghosh was arrested under IPC Sections 307 (attempt to murder) and 153A (promoting disharmony between two groups) for her comments against the chief minister. Yadav said some persons who were with her allegedly threw stones at a street corner meeting which was being addressed by the chief minister. A police official, who did not want to be named, said a BJP worker lodged a complaint alleging that Ghosh had reached the spot where the meeting was being held and shouted "Khela hobey (game will happen) and claimed that there were not even 50 people in the gathering. "Khela hobey" is a slogan used by the TMC during the assembly election in West Bengal held in March-April this year. Ghosh was earlier detained for questioning in a police station and arrested later. TMC leaders alleged that their workers were also roughed up by BJP supporters outside the East Agartala Women's police station, a charge denied by the saffron party. Abhishek Banerjee in a tweet accused the BJP government in the North-eastern state of disregarding Supreme Court orders on the rights of political parties to hold peaceful programmes. "@BjpBiplab has become so UNABASHEDLY BRAZEN that now even SUPREME COURT ORDERS DOESN'T SEEM TO BOTHER HIM. "He has repeatedly sent goons to attack our supporters & our female candidates instead of ensuring their safety! DEMOCRACY BEING MOCKED under @BJP4Tripura," Banerjee said in the Twitter post, attaching a video of the alleged attack of Sunday morning. The Supreme Court recently directed Tripura police to ensure that no political party is prevented from exercising their rights in accordance with the law for campaigning in a peaceful manner. Police said some unidentified miscreants attacked a group of people who gathered near the police station during the questioning of Ghosh, but no one was injured. The TMC is contesting the Tripura civic polls to be held on November 25. The ruling BJP has already won 112 out of 334 seats uncontested across 20 urban local bodies including Agartala Municipal Corporation. This will be the first civic election that the BJP will face after coming to power in 2018. The Mamata Banerjee-led party is trying to gain a foothold in the state ahead of the 2023 assembly elections. TMC Rajya Sabha MP Sushmita Dev claimed that BJP sheltered goons attacked the leaders and workers of the party on the premises of the police station after Ghosh reached there. Our candidates were beaten up; their houses vandalized and though complaints were filed, no action was taken. Police here are acting in a one-sided manner, she told reports. The TMC has repeatedly alleged that its candidates were being prevented from campaigning by the ruling BJP supporters there. TMC West Bengal secretary Kunal Ghosh said if this is what is democracy in Tripura, "we would recommend to our leaders to do the same thing (to the BJP) in West Bengal . Tripura BJP spokesperson Nabendu Bhattacharya denied the allegation, saying the saffron party workers did not ever attack anyone of the TMC as the party does not consider it as a political opponent to reckon with. The alleged attack created ripples in West Bengal where the TMC and the BJP were engaged in a war of words. BJP state president Sukanta Majumdar claimed that the TMC is unable to even field candidates in seats for the local body elections in Tripura. "They (TMC) have to take busloads of people from West Bengal to secure attendance of 500 people in Abhishek Banerjee's public meetings. There will be no impact of meetings by Abhishek Banerjee or Mamata Banerjee," Majumdar said. He claimed that the only opponent of the BJP in Tripura can be the CPI(M) and not the TMC. TMC leader and senior minister Firhad Hakim claimed that that the BJP was indulging in violence in Tripura. "But we will follow the democratic path and win Tripura. Democracy does exist in BJP-ruled states," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-91
21-11-2021||West Bengal||Ahead of India-New Zealand match 11 arrested near Eden Gardens||Eleven people were arrested near Eden Gardens stadium in Calcutta ahead of India's T20 cricket match with New Zealand on Sunday for allegedly selling tickets illegally, police said. Sixty match tickets, being sold at a higher rate, were seized from those arrested, they said. Security at the stadium and nearby areas were beefed up to check any untoward incident, a senior police officer said. Over 2,000 personnel of the Kolkata Police's different units, including RAF and HRFS were deployed. Sleuths of the Anti-Rowdy Squad were also posted near the stadium, he said. Senior officers of the rank of Deputy Commissioners and Assistant Commissioners were also deployed at the stadium and nearby areas, he added. "Officers in plain clothes are also at different places around Eden Gardens. We are not taking any chance and want to ensure that the sporting event takes place smoothly," the officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-91
21-11-2021||West Bengal||Leopard sighted in tea garden  ||A leopard was sighted at a small tea plantation in Shobhabhita area of Jalpaiguri Sadar block on Saturday morning. Scared workers stopped plucking tea leaves. Foresters have visited the spot and have laid a trap to catch the animal. “Around 7.30am, as we went to the plantations, we saw the animal. We immediately informed the garden’s manager who in turn called up forest officials. The leopard has strayed into the plantations and hence we are feeling unsafe,” said Manoj Roy, a worker. Plucking has come to halt at the tea garden and also in some adjoining plantations. A team from Belakoba forest range under Baikunthapur forest division reached the spot and set up a trap. “People have been asked to be on the alert. We hope the leopard will soon walk into the trap,” said Neela Rai, the range officer of Belakoba forest range. In Siliguri, foresters of Sarugara range under Baikunthapur forest division foiled the smuggling of three Ganges softshell turtles on Saturday. Three persons from Bhagalpur, Bihar, have been arrested.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-92
21-11-2021||West Bengal||Pure water  for 2,000 families in Sunderbans saline zone||A mini-water treatment plant to supply purified drinking water in an area of the Sunderbans that suffers from high salinity in its groundwater was inaugurated on Friday. Ncourage Social Enterprise Foundation, a subsidiary of Tata Chemicals, in collaboration with Rotary Club of Calcutta’s New Alipore chapter, and Maa Saroda Women & Rural Welfare Society of Sandeshkhali joined hands for the project at Dakhin Akhratala village of Nazat in North 24-Parganas to bring pure drinking water to around 2,000 families by purifying 1,000 litres of water per hour. The mini-plant with 10 water supply output taps that costs around Rs 10 lakh was inaugurated by Rotary Club of Calcutta’s district governor Prabir Chatterjee. Rotary Club of Calcutta’s New Alipore chapter president Sushil Agarwal said: “We first came to know about the problem of drinking water in the region from a report in The Telegraph. It was an emotional affair for us to launch it for the people.” The Telegraph had reported how schoolgirls in the Hansnabad block of the Sunderbans pedal 12km every day to fetch water. Homemaker Sephali Sardar, 40, said: “For the first time in our life we will be able to drink pure water from near our home.” Subhasis Mondal, secretary of the Maa Saroda Women & Rural Welfare Society, said: “The TDS level in the groundwater in Nazat is 500 PPM, which is dangerous. Hope this initiative will save their lives.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-92
21-11-2021||West Bengal||Bengal reports 725 new Covid cases, 775 recoveries and 12 deaths||Bengal on Saturday reported 725 new Covid-19 infections, 775 recoveries and 12 deaths, resulting in a fall by 62 in its total active cases to 8,045. Over 56 days, since Bengal snapped out of a 97day fall in active cases or Covid patients under treatment, on September 26, there has been a net rise of 371 in the state’s total of active cases, from 7,674. A minister said new infections reported on Saturday indicated people infected between November 11 (a week after Kali Puja) and November 15 (two days after Jagaddhatri Puja). Calcutta logged 201 new infections and North 24-Parganas 125 on Saturday. Both districts logged three deaths each. These were also the only two of the state’s 23 districts with a three digit figure of new cases detected in a day. Nine districts reported single digit figures. Seventeen districts reported zero deaths. Calcutta, North and South 24-Parganas, Howrah, Hooghly and Nadia accounted for 534, or 73.66 per cent, of the new infections detected on Saturday. The state’s recovery rate is 98.3 per cent, while that of the nation is 98.28. Its daily positi¬ve confirmation rate, nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 2.01 per cent on Saturday. The state’s mortality rate is 1.2 per cent, while that of the nation is 1.33 per cent. Bengal now has over 16.09 lakh Covid19 cases, since the first was logged in March last year. The total includes over 15.81 lakh recoveries and 19,376 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-92
21-11-2021||West Bengal||Railway lifts winter bar on Teesta Torsa Express   ||Railway authorities have decided to revoke the decision to cancel the Teesta Torsa Express for three months during winter. The decision follows protests, particularly from traders who use this train to ferry various items from Calcutta to north Bengal, after the railways decided to cancel the service from December 2, 2021, to March 1, 2022, citing dense fog. On Friday, Arun Arora, the general manager of Eastern Railway (ER), said: “This train service will not be suspended for so long. We will run the train and cancel it only on days of dense fog.” Teesta Torsa Express runs between two zones, ER and Northeast Railway, but ER controls the train’s service. Prasenjit Dey, the secretary of the Alipurduar Chamber of Commerce, welcomed the decision.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-92
21-11-2021||West Bengal||Mountain  bid to tackle plastic waste better in fragile regions||Legislators from the mountain states of India have decided to strongly advocate that the Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) be made more feasible for better plastic waste management in these fragile regions. The EPR is a policy under which producers are given a significant responsibility — financial and/or physical — for the treatment or disposal of post-consumer products. The declaration of intent was made during the Mountain Legislators’ Meet held in Darjeeling on Saturday as part of the Sustainable Mountain Development Summit 2021, which is being organised by the Integrated Mountain Initiative (IMI), a civil society-led forum, and the Darjeeling Himalayan Initiative (DHI). “The participants have decided to advocate for the EPR to be made more feasible in the mountain region. Most legislators were of the opinion that the policy is more plains-centric and such initiatives have not really taken off in the mountain regions,” said DHI member Roshan Rai. Legislators felt producers were less interested in taking up cleaning activities in the mountains because of high cost, unavailability of land and lesser amount of waste collected. “It was also acknowledged that there is an urgent need for bringing about stringent policies and legislation against single-use plastic due to the fragile Himalayan ecosystem,” said Praful Rao, president of the DHI. Surveys by the DHI and other studies suggest that half of the plastics ever produced in the world have been manufactured in the last 15 years and only 28.2 per cent of it gets recycled.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-92
21-11-2021||West Bengal||Sabotage axe on Cooch Behar Trinamul leader||A Trinamul member of the Cooch Behar zilla parishad was expelled from the party on Saturday for allegedly instigating elected representatives in panchayats to table no-confidence motions against their pradhans. “The party has decided to expel Nur Alam Hossain for anti-party activities,” Giridranath Barman, Trinamul’s Cooch Behar district party chief, told the media in the presence of newly elected Dinhata MLA Udayan Guha, among others. “We have specific information that he was involved in persuading elected members of Trinamul in panchayats, especially in Dinhata, to table no-confidence motions against pradhans,” Barman added. Alam declined to comment, saying he had not received any formal communication from the party. According to Trinamul insiders, Alam had made Trinamul members of Gitaldaha-I and II panchayats to bring no-confidence motions and remove the pradhans. “Also, in Okrabari panchayat, he engaged some panchayat members whom the party had expelled earlier, to table the motion against the pradhan. The party cannot tolerate such activities,” said a party leader. Alam is also a karmadhyaksha (member in charge of departments) at the zilla parishad. Also the former Trinamul president of Dinhata-I block, he faced expulsion earlier after a woman had filed a complaint against him, accusing him of intimidating her. “He had told us then that he would correct himself… He is well aware of party’s decision that such motions cannot be tabled in panchayats where we have majority, and yet made moves that can help our rivals. We had no other option but to expel him,” Guha said. Jagadish Barma Basunia, the Trinamul MLA of Sitai under Dinhata subdivision of the district, however stood by Alam. “I don’t think someone can be expelled in such a manner without seeking a clarification from him. Nur Alam Hossain has been with the party during hard times,” the MLA said. Sources said at the Assembly elections held earlier this year, Alam was instrumental to ensure Basunia’s win.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-92
21-11-2021||West Bengal||Power bill slash likely once coal mining begins in Deocha-Pachami||Production cost of electricity will be cheaper by 74 paise per unit once the Bengal government starts mining coal from the proposed Deocha-Panchami project in Birbhum, an initial study by Nabanna has revealed. The government plans to transfer this saving to power consumers directly, sources at Nabanna said. “Production cost of electricity will be cut down by 74 paise for each unit of electricity once we start using cent per cent captive coal.… The benefit will be transferred directly to consumers,” said a senior state government official. Though a section of officials said it was too premature to comment that power tariff would come down in proportion to the lower production cost, they agreed it would definitely make electricity cheaper for consumers in Bengal. Nabanna sources said that now the production cost of one unit of electricity was Rs 3. “The cost is higher as the state has to buy 20,000 tonnes of coal every day out of its daily need of 55,000 tonnes. The state is forced to buy coal at Rs 3,000-Rs 3,800 a tonne every day,” a source explained. In case of captive coal — where the state mines coal on its own — the cost of a tonne is around Rs 2,200. “We can save Rs 1,000 on an average for each tonne of coal once we start mining from Deocha-Panchami. It has been estimated that this will help the state cut the production cost of each unit of electricity by 74 paise,” said a bureaucrat. Sources said that the West Bengal Power Development Corporation Limited (WBPDCL) sold each unit of electricity at Rs 3.40 to the West Bengal State Electricity Distribution Company Limited ( WBSEDCL). “In turn, the WBSEDCL sells each unit of power to consumers at a little over Rs 7 as it adds administrative and distribution cost to the base price. If the production cost falls by 74 paise, it would be a huge benefit for the consumers,” another official said. A drop by 74 paise in each unit of power could be huge as those using up to 300 units could save up to Rs 225 a month, a significant sum in rural areas, an official pointed out. Some officials, however, were cautious. One said power generation companies might have to install costly technologies in their plants to make them environment friendly, so it can’t be definitely said right away how much of the cost benefit would finally reach the end-consumer. “The way the need to reduce use of fossil fuel was discussed earlier this month at the COP26 climate change meeting in Glasgow, it is evident that the thermal power plants in India may have to be overhauled to make them environment friendly. As this would involve a huge investment, the power generation company in Bengal may have to use a part of the amount saved from production cost to acquire technology that reduces carbon emission. But overall, power tariff would definitely be cheaper if the state uses cent per cent captive coal,” said an official. Another said the cost of petro products would also have a bearing on the production cost of power. “If the price of petro products goes up, the savings on production cost may vary. But as coal is the main component, power production cost is likely to drop once the state only uses captive coal,” said a source. The sources said that in addition to cheaper power tariff for consumers, the proposed mega mining project would help the state generate more than 1 lakh direct and indirect jobs and also help it earn surplus revenue from the sale of coal. “The first phase of the project, to be started at Dewanganj-Harinsingha where the state has significant quantum of land, has a coal reserve of 38.69 million tonnes. This is huge. The state can earn a handsome revenue by selling surplus coal every year,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-92
