22-11-2021||West Bengal||With sights on Tripura & Goa, Mamata to test Delhi's winter weather||Barely days short of four months since her last visit to Delhi, Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee is on her way to the national capital for a four-day visit to meet her party MPs, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and Prime Minister Narendra Modi. According to Trinamul sources, Mamata has also sought an appointment with UPA chairperson and Congress working president Sonia Gandhi, which is yet to be finalised. Since her last meeting with Sonia on July 28, the Trinamul leadership including its hired brain Prashant Kishore have upped the ante against the grand old party and also engineered defections. Two former Congress leaders, who had served the party with distinction for years, Luizinho Faleiro of Goa and Sushmita Dev from Assam, have been sent to the Rajya Sabha on a Trinamul ticket in these four months. Prashant Kishore, with help from Trinamul mouthpiece Jago Bangla and some of its functionaries, have been undermining the Congress’ role in any anti-BJP platform to prop up Mamata as the only credible face of the Opposition against Modi. “Both the times the request for a meeting with Soniaji came from Mamata’s office. Last time she did get an audience. Soniaji did not ask for a meeting with her. Look at the way Mamata has reciprocated in these few months,” said an AICC member. Mamata and Kejriwal share common ground in Goa where both parties are keen to project themselves as the alternative  to both the ruling BJP and the once formidable Congress in the tiny western state. In Goa, for example, the difference in vote share between the BJP and the Congress was less than four per cent. The Congress did bag the most number of seats but a steady stream of desertions has weakened the party electorally. Yet, voters in Goa have not yet completely deserted the party. In the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, the Congress nominee from South Goa, Francisco Sardinha, won with over 47 per cent of the total votes, which was a spike of less than seven per cent since 2014. The Aam Aadmi Party, which failed to win any seat in the 2017 Goa Assembly polls, managed just about seven per cent of the votes in the Lok Sabha elections, almost equal to what it had in the Assembly polls. The Trinamul had not contested from the state in either the Assembly or the Lok Sabha polls in 2017 and 2019. It did participate in the 2012 Assembly elections, where it received 1.81 per cent of the valid votes, contesting 20 seats and its candidates had forfeited deposits in 19 of those seats. On the other hand, in the northeastern state of Tripura, sandwiched between Myanmar and Bangladesh, Trinamul has been posing itself as a serious contender for governance for many years now. In the 24 seats that it contested in 2018, Trinamul received a total of 6,989 votes with nominees' deposits forfeited in all the seats. The party’s vote share was less than one per cent. The party had not contested in the previous elections held in 2013. The BJP had in 2018 got 43.59 per cent of the votes, while the CPM which came second had a vote share of 42.22 per cent. In the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, however, the Congress which had managed only 1.79 per cent of the votes in the Assembly elections a year ago, jumped to the second spot in both seats of Tripura East and West, bagging 26.58 per cent and 24.18 per cent votes. The Trinamul contested in only one seat, Tripura West, and got 0.78 per cent votes. Significantly, contrary to the scenario that played out in Bengal since 2009 when a portion of the Left vote started swinging towards the Trinamul propelling Mamata Banerjee to power, in Tripura it is the Congress which has benefitted, much to the annoyance of both the BJP and the Trinamul. The former chief minister, Manik Sarkar, too was caught in the violence unleashed by BJP cadres in the state as late as September this year, when his convoy was blocked. The BJP then had to beat a retreat as the CPM cadres resisted. That incident on September 6 at Dhanpur, had led to arson, looting and violence in the heart of Agartala and spread to other districts two days later. The CPM’s state headquarters, offices of five media houses, local offices of the Left parties in the districts and homes of countless Leftists and supporters were ransacked and set ablaze. About 10 days ago, Sarkar, the CPM’s politburo member, visited the house of a CPM nominee for the urban local body elections, which was ransacked by alleged BJP cadres, who fled after the Left activists resisted. Over the last few months the attention, however, has been on the "will-it-won’t-it" meetings of Trinamul’s all-India general secretary Abhishek Banerjee. The arrest of the party’s Bengal youth wing chief, Sayani Ghosh, has added fuel to the fire. Short of local talent, the Trinamul has flown in several MPs, MLAs and other functionaries from Bengal to micro-manage the civic polls, where it could field candidates in less than 50 per cent of the seats. “They vandalised the police station and attacked us twice yesterday. The DGP and IGP are not available on phone. Apparently, the DGP is in some conference with the PM, whereas his state is in chaos. Clearly, law and order situation is not a priority for the government,” said Trinamul MP Sushmita Dev. Former CPM MP Sujan Chakraborty said, “In the 2018 panchayat polls in Bengal, Trinamul won 34 per cent seats uncontested. The BJP has won uncontested in 34 per cent of seats in Tripura’s urban local body elections. BJP in Tripura is following the footsteps of the Trinamul in Bengal.” The CPM's rant notwithstanding, Mamata is likely to make the most noise about Tripura during her stay in Delhi. A meeting with the party MPs, some of whom held a protest rally at the North Bloc on Monday morning, is scheduled later tonight.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-90
22-11-2021||West Bengal||Assam resident held with animal skin and scales in Jalpaiguri||Foresters of Baikunthapur forest division in the Dooars have recovered deer skin and pangolin scales from a resident of Assam on Sunday and arrested him. Bishnu Jain, from Tezpur of the neighbouring state, was trying to smuggle these items to Nepal along with some aides when he was nabbed in Jalpaiguri’s Oldabari, sources in the state forest department said. “We had prior information  and a team from Sarugara forest range reached Odlabari on Sunday morning. Soon, they spotted an SUV at the bypass area of Odlabari and intercepted it. Two persons managed to flee but Jain could be nabbed. A deerskin and 2.1 kilos of pangolin scales have been recovered from the vehicle,” said a forest official. Odlabari is a hamlet in Malbazar subdivision of Jalpaiguri in western Dooars and is around 40km from Siliguri. During preliminary interrogation, Jain revealed plans to smuggle these items to Nepal. Pangolin scales have a huge demand in some southeast Asian countries where they are used in traditional medicine. In the past 24 hours, this is the second consecutive raid by the foresters of Baikunthapur. On Saturday morning, they foiled the smuggling of Ganges softshell turtles. Three turtles were recovered from Darjeeling More, the principal entry point to Siliguri, and three residents of Bihar arrested in this connection. Narcotics seized The special operation group of Siliguri Metropolitan Police arrested Dilshad Khan and Md Islam of North Dinajpur district on Saturday with around 300 grams of brown sugar (a derivative of heroin) worth around Rs 60 lakh, police sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-90
22-11-2021||West Bengal||Dhaka-Siliguri passenger train services may begin from this month||Foreign secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla on Sunday dropped broad hints that the much-awaited Dhaka-Siliguri passenger train services could start from this month. Shringla, a resident of Darjeeling, while speaking at a charity event in his hometown, said: “We will start this month the train service connecting Dhaka with Siliguri. This is the opening of Chilahati-Haldibari rail link which had been closed since 1965.” When Shringla was asked on the sidelines of the event about the timeframe of the train service, he was, however, less specific: “They are trying to operationalise (it) as soon as possible, let the announcements be made.” The 513km-long train service was apparently to start from March 26 earlier this year but various issues, including infrastructure preparedness, had come in the way. A source in the Indian Railways, however, said all necessary infrastructure had been put in place on the Indian side and senior officials had also inspected the same in October. “Our infrastructure is ready. Immigration check-post will be set up on platform number 1 at NJP station. However, we have not received any order or information regarding the exact date of the commencement of the service. Various departments like external affairs and home affairs are involved in this project,” said a source. On December 17, 2020, India and Bangladesh reopened an old railway route that used to connect the two countries — from Haldibari station (in Cooch Behar) to Chilahati station (Nilfamari district in Bangladesh) — after a gap of over 50 years. The prime ministers of the two countries, Narendra Modi and Sheikh Hasina, had jointly inaugurated the route for a goods train service. Following the opening of the route, there has been a sustained effort from both the countries to start the passenger service between Dhaka and Siliguri, which would be the first train to connect Bangladesh with north Bengal. At the moment, two passenger train services from Bangladesh (Dhaka and Khulna) connect Calcutta. Shringla’s statement on the launch of the train service was in the context of the region’s economic potential. “Bangladesh is a country of 160 million, it has had an 8 per cent growth in the past 10 years. It is burgeoning with the ability to be able to spend in the manner that suits interests like us,” said Shringla. “You must attract tourists, you are sitting on the crossroads, you are connecting Bangladesh, Bhutan, Nepal, connecting mainland India with the northeastern part of India. You are extremely well placed to take advantage of the geography, location,” the foreign secretary stressed. A few years ago, India had allowed Bangladesh citizens to visit Sikkim, which was out of bounds for them. Additional reporting from Bireswar  Banerjee in Siliguri||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-90
22-11-2021||West Bengal||Sayani Ghosh arrested on charges of attempt to murder in Tripura||Tripura police arrested Trinamul youth wing president Sayani Ghosh on Sunday afternoon on charges of attempt to murder among others, adding to the political tension in the northeastern state in the run-up to the November 25 urban local body polls. The arrest came on the eve of Trinamul general secretary Abhishek Banerjee’s visit to Agartala to shore up the party’s prospects in the polls, the campaigning of which has been marked by political skirmishes. Trinamul’s Tripura convener Subal Bhowmik said Ghosh was arrested on a complaint filed on Saturday night by a BJP member Biswanath Debnath. “She was passing though the venue of a rally addressed by the chief minister last night when few BJP members taunted her. She responded by saying ‘Khela Hobe, Khela Hobe’. How can this be construed as an attempt to murder or the charges slapped against her. This once again shows the ruling BJP has been isolated and afraid of losing,” Bhowmik told The Telegraph. A mob attacked Bhowmik’s Agartala residence which has been converted into a party office after 7 pm on Sunday. Ghosh has been booked under non-bailable Sections 153 (provocation which could lead to rioting)/153A( promoting enmity between different groups), 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation), 307 (attempt to murder) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the IPC, Bhowmik said. Trinamul planned an indefinite protest in Delhi from Monday against what is happening in the BJP-ruled Tripura. A Trinamul delegation flew to Delhi on Sunday evening and sought an audience with Union home minister Amit Shah, sources said. The delegation is likely to be joined by Trinamul supremo and Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee who will reach the national capital on Monday on a three-day official visit. In another tweet, the party said: “Our National Gen Secy Shri @abhishekaitc will reach Tripura tomorrow morning to stand beside our workers who were BRUTALLY ATTACKED by BJP goons. Permission to land today was denied. An autocrat is running the show in Tripura and we will fight tooth & nail to end this torture!” The party had earlier tweeted that Banerjee would reach Tripura by Sunday. “They were trying to arrest Ghosh (Sayani)last night itself. They brought her to East Agartala women police station around 11am for questioning and arrested her around 4.30pm,” Bhowmik said. A police officer told the media that Ghosh had been booked under several sections of the IPC. “ The allegations included promoting enmity between group of people and attempt to murder.... We have got some evidence after her interrogation and recording of statements of witnesses. She will be produced in court on Monday,” he said. However, he did not give a direct reply when asked whom Sayani had attempted to murder. He said: “It was not against any person but gadi chalane main tha... We will know during interrogation. We have preliminary evidence. ” He said there were four persons in the car including the driver, and action will be taken against them. Trinamul Rajya Sabha member Sushmita Dev, who was at the police station, said: “No reasonable person believes Sayani tried to run over people with the intent of murder. They allege it was my car but this is not true.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-90
22-11-2021||West Bengal||Cops take measure to smoothly collect cashless fines on the spot ||Siliguri Metropolitan Police introduced ePOS (electronic point of sale) machines for the traffic wing for cashless collection of fines on the spot from traffic violators. “Seventy such machines have been handed over across our jurisdiction. This will facilitate easy and fast collection of fines and make it easy for people to pay up,” said a police officer. Anybody fined for traffic violation can now pay up immediately by swiping his debit or credit card or via UPI (Unified Payment Interface) or through mobile apps, he said. So far, those fined by traffic police had to go to a bank with the challan or pay online. Police will continue to run the old arrangement too for those who don’t use cards, UPI or apps. Gold seizure The Directorate of Revenue Intelligence arrested a Guwahati resident, Nasir Ahmed, in Siliguri and seized from him around 2kg of gold worth Rs 99 lakh on Saturday. Ahmed, intercepted at Jalpai More of Siliguri, was carrying the gold in a specially made belt from northeast to Calcutta.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-91
22-11-2021||West Bengal||Citu helps workers of unorganised sector enrol under e-Shram ||The Citu unit in West Burdwan’s Durgapur began a weeklong camp from Sunday to help out workers in the unorganised sector for online registration to the Centre’s e-Shram portal. The portal was launched by the Union government in August 2021 to create a centralised database of workers of the unorganised sector across the country. The workers, between 16 years and 59 years of age, who  enroll in e-Shram, will get a monthly pension after the age of 60, medical insurance, accidental death benefit and other benefits from the Centre. Citu workers said over 300 workers registered their names on Sunday. The camp at the Citu affiliated transport workers’ union office near Durgapur railway station will continue between 10.30am and 3pm every day till coming Sunday. Citu West Burdwan general secretary Bansagopal Chowdhury said they will go door to door after completing the weeklong camp. “Those can’t come to enrol their names for e-Shram during this time will be reached on their doorstep. More camps will also be held across the district,” he said. Citu leaders in Durgapur said that they will assist the workers irrespective of their affiliation to any trade unions of their choice. “It is not that we want to help out only those workers who are Citu members. Although the Citu unit has organised the camp, there is no political bar (to taking the Citu’s help),” said Pankaj Roy Sarkar, a Citu state committee member from Durgapur. He said the initiative went beyond politics. “We are politically against both the central and state governments but we are responsible and sensible. We felt that we should support any scheme taken up by either the Centre or state governments for the welfare of the working class or the common people,” added Roy Sarkar. He said it was unfortunate that no other trade unions or the administration in this industrial town had taken up such an organised initiative to help workers of the unorganised sector yet. “Hence, we are offering help to all,” he said. Earlier this year, the CPM workers had also held camps to assist women in filling up forms of Lakshmir Bhandar, a brainchild of chief minister Mamata Banerjee. Before the Bengal polls, though, the CPM had called Trinamul’s promise of the scheme a “poll gimmick”. A CPM leader in Durgapur said the results of the Assembly election revealed that people had accepted the promises of the beneficial schemes made by the chief minister. “If we now continue to oppose (the welfare schemes), we will become more ‘irrelevant’,” he said. “The CPM doesn’t deserve any reaction from us as the people have rejected them.. Our chief minister is doing her best for the working classes of the state,” said Uttam Mukherjee, Trinamul leader in Durgapur.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-91
22-11-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul youth leader killed in Canning, finger at party colleague||Muharram Sheikh, 36, a Trinamul youth wing leader in Canning, was shot near his home late on Saturday, allegedly for protesting  against a party colleague’s habit of extorting from traders. Police who scanned CCTV footage said four assailants led by Trinamul activist Rafiq Sheikh fired at least four rounds at Muharram at 8pm on Saturday when he was speaking to party colleagues. Two bullets hit his head and one more got lodged in his chest. He was taken to the Canning hospital and then to SSKM Hospital in Calcutta where he died. Police started a murder case based on a complaint by Md Sheikh, witness and Muharram’s brother. Three persons have been arrested. However, as of Sunday evening Rafiq was still traceless. Trinamul’s Canning West MLA Paresh Ram Das also accused Rafiq of killing Muharram for being a hurdle to the former’s “illegal earnings” by way of extortion from traders. Trinamul sources also alleged that barely two months ago Rafiq had attempted to murder Muharram. The MLA also accused police of inaction over the alleged murder bid earlier. “Had the police taken up the investigation properly and made efforts to nab Rafiq, our party would not have lost Muharram,” said Das. Baruipur police district chief Vaibhav Tiwari refuted the allegation. “There was no specific allegation against the accused in that case. The previous incident was completely different from what happened on Saturday. Accused Rafiq has a criminal background. But he had no direct link in that previous incident,” said Tiwari. Trinamul insiders said Rafiq, a former CPM activist, joined Trinamul a few years ago and developed enmity with Muharram after his elevation as a youth wing leader. “Rafiq has the support of a senior block-level leader, who encouraged him to challenge Muharram’s leadership,” said a Trinamul source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-91
22-11-2021||West Bengal||Bengal's Covid report: 727 new cases, 745 recoveries, seven deaths||Bengal on Sunday reported 727 new Covid19 infections, 745 recoveries and seven deaths, resulting in a drop by 25 in its active cases to 8,020 now. A minister said the new cases on Sunday indicated people infected between November 12 and 16. Calcutta reported 213 new cases and one death. North 24-Parganas reported 147 new infections and two deaths. These are the only two of the state’s 23 districts with a three digit figure of new cases found in a day. Ten districts reported a single digit figure. Eighteen districts reported zero deaths on Sunday. Calcutta, North and South 24-Parganas, Howrah, Hooghly and Nadia accounted for 555 or 76.34 per cent of the new infections detected on Sunday. In the 57 days since Bengal broke a 97day fall in active cases or count of Covid patients being treated, there has been a net rise of 346 in the state’s total of active cases, from 7,674. The state’s recovery rate is 98.3 per cent, on a par with the national rate. Its daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.82 per cent on Sunday. The state’s mortality rate is 1.2, while that of the nation is 1.34 per cent. Bengal now has nearly 16.1 lakh Covid19 cases, since the first was logged in March last year. The total includes over 15.82 lakh recoveries and 19,383 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-91
22-11-2021||West Bengal||Amid talks of rejig in BJP unit, Dilip prescribes ‘top to bottom’ change||Bengal BJP’s immediate past president Dilip Ghosh said the state unit of his party needs a complete overhaul and a paradigm shift in the way things are done in the party, days ahead of a probable rejig in the organisation. “I think a new state committee must be formed as soon as possible. I have been saying this since July and have communicated this to our national chief (J.P.) Naddaji… Everyone in the organisation, top to bottom, including me, must be changed. They’ve replaced me. Other changes must follow soon,” said Ghosh on Saturday evening. The Midnapore MP, who is now one of the BJP’s national vice-presidents, also said a new policy is needed on how the state unit should function. “When I was made the president, our party had nothing here. I worked in my own way, did what I had to do… But now we have so many MPs, the electorate has acknowledged us as the main Opposition party. Now, there must be a change in the way things are done here,” he said. Ghosh didn’t elaborate on the changes, but sources close to him said he indirectly acknowledged that the BJP under him was regarded as a party “without refinement”.  Many of Ghosh’s statements — regarded as “insensitive, ill-informed and violent” — did not go down well with most voters. Many of his statements were also regarded as laughable. Sources in the party accepted Ghosh’s contribution of calling people to resist Trinamul-led “atrocities”. They said it was because of his “daredevil” image that the BJP was able to drastically expand its base in the state. However, they also admitted to the drawback of that approach in Bengal. “The CPM was losing its base in Bengal as its leaders failed to protect workers against Trinamul-backed atrocities. Dilip-da came into politics at such a time and publicly called for a counterattack. People, especially in villages, liked that, trusted him and started following the BJP,” a state BJP functionary said. “But the same approach made him a villain in the eyes of the educated, genteel sections, which are major influencers in Bengal. The Bengali bhawdrolok was scared that if someone like him had access to power, there would be bloodbath... It did affect our poll performance,” he added. Another state leader pointed out that many of the cases of alleged post-poll results violence took place in areas where Ghosh and others from his team had publicly threatened to unleash violence on Trinamul after the BJP came to power. “When Trinamul swept the polls, their workers reacted violently to the threats by attacking our people,” he said. Balurghat MP Sukanta Majumdar, a teacher, becoming Ghosh’s successor is indicative of the BJP trying to make itself more acceptable to the bhawdrolok, said sources. But the new committee is yet to be announced. Ghosh wants the changes soon, but Majumdar is yet to come up with a new list.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-91
22-11-2021||West Bengal||Tourists exited after rhino sighting from lodge next to Jaldapara||Tourists at the state-run tourist lodge in Madarihat next to the Jaldapara National Park in Alipurduar district had a pleasant surprise on Sunday morning as a one-horned rhino walked up to the power-fenced boundary of the lodge and stood there for around half an hour. In Bengal, Jaldapara is the largest habitat of rhinos. As of now, there are over 250 rhinos in the park. Around 6.30am, the adult male rhino walked up near the lodge. Swapan Kumar Mallick, a tourist from Calcutta, was the first to spot it as the cottage where he has checked in, is just opposite where the rhino stood. “I was brushing my teeth and was stunned to see the rhino. I  silently called my family members. Soon, we all had the experience of a lifetime. Never I have seen a rhino from up so close,” said Mallick. The tourists went on clicking pictures of the animal, which apparently was unperturbed. It went on grazing vegetation, said tourists. After 30 minutes, the rhino walked back to the forest. “It is sheer luck because on many occasions, tourists do not see rhinos even on a car safari in Jaldapara. Only an elephant safari ensures a rhino sighting,” said a tour operator in the Dooars. Niranjan Saha, the lodge  manager, said in recent years, this was the first time a rhino came so close to the lodge. “Elephant sightings are common here but not rhinos,” he said. Elephant safari Any tourist visiting the Gorumara National Park in Jalpaiguri district, the state's second largest rhino habitat, can enjoy an elephant safari here from Monday. So far, the safari was limited to those who booked accommodation at the forest department properties.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-91
22-11-2021||West Bengal||Former Darjeeling  bodybuilder from a bygone era no more||Ganesh Bahadur Giri, more popularly known as Ganu Giri, who is credited with pioneering bodybuilding in the region, breathed his last in Darjeeling on Sunday. He was 85. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee has expressed her condolences over his demise. Giri, a certified international bodybuilding judge, was also Team India coach for the Asian Bodybuilding Championship in Sri Lanka in 1985. The bodybuilder from Darjeeling was a globetrotter in his heyday, judging events across the world from France to Iraq, Singapore to Taiwan. In Darjeeling, he is credited with organising the first Mr Darjeeling, Mr Himalaya, and Strong Man Body Building contests in 1965. Giri took to this sport in 1953 and founded a gym at Gorkha Dukha Niwarak Sammelan Hall in 1955. Giri wore many hats. He was also a state-level volleyball referee and was also the president of trade body Pathpasala Sangh for 28 years. “Apart from his renown as a bodybuilder, coach and judge, he was an active social worker who used to cremate unclaimed bodies too. He also acted in a few Nepali plays and films,” said a family source. Giri was awarded the Sikkim Samman Award by the Sikkim government in 2004 and the Banga Ratna by the Bengal government in 2020. Mamata, who expressed her condolences to the bereaved family, tweeted: “Saddened by the demise of Ganesh Bahadur Giri, renowned International Body Builder and International Judge of World Body Building Federation. He was a Banga Ratna Awardee. Deepest condolences to his family, loved ones and fans.” The funeral will take place in Darjeeling at 1 pm on Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-91
