23-11-2021||West Bengal||Mamata to meet Modi to discuss BSF jurisdiction, central funds||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee will meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Delhi on Wednesday. She is expected to discuss the issue of expansion in the jurisdiction of the Border Security Force (BSF) and the allocation of central funds for West Bengal. She might also bring up the issue of political violence in Tripura. Trinamul Congress chief Banerjee is on a visit to the national capital till November 25, she will meet opposition party leaders to chalk up a strategy to tackle the BJP in the Parliament ahead of the winter session that's scheduled to begin on November 29. The TMC also made their first foray into Bihar politics with two prominent state leaders formally joining the party in the presence of Ms Banerjee. Pavan Varma, expelled JD(U) leader and once political advisor of Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, and Kirti Azad - a three-time Lok Sabha MP from Bihar's Darbhanga seat - joined the party in Delhi on Tuesday. While Varma called the West Bengal CM “a big force” in national politics and claimed people from all parties, including the BJP, will join her, Azad said that the country needed a person “who can fight on the ground... (and give it) a new direction” and added that Banerjee has proved that she can do it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-89
23-11-2021||West Bengal||Appointments of Group D workers: Bengal govt appeals before HC against CBI order for enquiry||The West Bengal government on Tuesday appealed before a division bench of the Calcutta High Court, challenging a single bench order that directed the CBI to hold an enquiry into alleged irregularities in appointments of Group D workers in schools by the board of secondary education. The appeal is likely to come up for hearing before a division bench presided over by Justice Harish Tandon on Wednesday. Lawyers for the state urged before the bench that an urgent hearing be given to its appeal. Justice Abhijit Gangopadhyay on Monday ordered the CBI to conduct an enquiry into alleged irregularities in the appointment of Group D staff in aided/sponsored schools under the West Bengal Board of Secondary Education (WBBSE) on purported recommendations by the state's School Service Commission (SSC) and to find out whether there is any money trail involved. The SSC had claimed before the court that it did not give recommendation letters for any of the 25 names of appointees submitted before the court by the petitioners. The judge directed the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) director to constitute a committee, headed by an officer not below the rank of a joint director, with officers not below the rank of DIG to initiate the enquiry. The court directed the CBI to file a preliminary report before it on December 21, when further orders in the matter will be passed. The order was passed on a petition by some job aspirants claiming that appointments were given to persons after the expiry of the panel proposed for the posts of Group D staff in aided/sponsored secondary and higher secondary schools in the state and had produced a list of such alleged appointees before the court. Justice Gangopadhyay directed that a copy of a list of alleged illegally appointed persons and copies of all affidavits used in this matter including the writ application be handed over to the advocate of the CBI at 3 pm on Wednesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-89
23-11-2021||West Bengal||State govt informs court on civic polls through affidavit||The state government on Monday submitted an affidavit before Calcutta High Court informing that after discussing with the state electoral officer it had decided to hold civic polls to twin cities — Calcutta and Howrah — on December 19 this year in the first phase of the process. The affidavit also stated that dates for polls in other municipalities of the state will be decided in phases after after discussions with the state election officer. The affidavit was filed to carry out an order by the division bench of Chief Justice Prakash Srivastava in response to a public interest litigation seeking the court order the state government to hold municipal polls on one day and not in phases . The government affidavit claimed since Covid was still active in the state, it had been decided to hold polls in phases.  The division bench will hear the case on Tuesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-89
23-11-2021||West Bengal||Jalpaiguri: TMC leader shot at in public place, critical ||A Trinamul leader based in Rajganj block of Jalpaiguri district was shot at by an unidentified criminal late on Sunday evening. Soleman Mohammad, 55, has sustained a bullet injury on his head and is being treated at a private nursing home in Siliguri. He is critical. Sources said Soleman, a resident of Balaram, a village in Rajganj block, was seated at a shop that sells lottery tickets at Gandar More area of Bhutkihat, some 15km from Siliguri, on Sunday evening when he was attacked. Two persons on a motorcycle came to the spot, one of whom got down, took out a firearm and fired at Soleman. The bullet, which pierced Soleman's head, finally hit Tapan Mahato, the lottery shop owner. Both collapsed on the spot. The attackers fled towards Siliguri on their bike. Amid screams from bystanders, local trader Bapi Roy gave the attackers a chase on his bike. The criminals fired at least two rounds at him, prompting him to halt for his safety. Soleman and Tapan were rushed to the private nursing home in Siliguri. Tapan was released after treatment. Soleman, a popular leader and owner of plantations,  is reported to be critical. Senior police officers from Jalpaiguri have initiated a probe. On Monday, Gaurav Sharma, the commissioner of Siliguri Metropolitan Police, visited the site of the shooting. He spoke with Roy to gather information and other eyewitnesses. Khageswar Roy, the Trinamul MLA of Rajganj, went to the spot and also visited the nursing home to check on Soleman's health. “We have urged the police to find out whether Soleman was attacked because of any political reason or any issue related to his business. Police should nab the attackers," the MLA said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-89
23-11-2021||West Bengal||Elephant kills elderly tea garden resident in Naxalbari  ||An elderly resident of Meriview tea estate in Naxalbari block of Siliguri subdivision was killed by a wild elephant on Monday. Sources in the forest department said that in the morning, Julias Oraon, 70, went out with cattle to a nearby field when the elephant attacked him. He died instantly. Foresters found his body. His kin will be compensated according to norms, they said. BSF arrests BSF personnel arrested three persons, including two Bangladeshis, on Sunday. Sources said troops of 175 battalion at the border outpost in Bamoor on the India-Bangladesh border nabbed two persons trying allegedly to cross the border illegally. Ainul Haque and Safikul of Thakurgaon in Bangladesh are reportedly smugglers. Personnel of the 137 battalion arrested Pintu Malo of South Dinajpur who was allegedly trying to smuggle contraband items to Bangladesh. The BSF, sources said, in other raids across the region seized items worth Rs 15.08 lakh that include cattle, cough syrup and silver. On Monday, Kotwali police of Cooch Behar caught a truck with 36 cows. Five persons, who could not produce papers for the cows, were arrested.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-89
23-11-2021||West Bengal||Bankers fear privatisation move of nationalised banks, call for rally||An independent bank officers’ association has given a call for a protest march to New Delhi from Calcutta and Mumbai to pre-empt a law it fears the Centre will introduce to privatise nationalised banks. The rallies will commence on November 24 and culminate at  Jantar Mantar in Delhi on November 30. “The success of the farmers' movement has inspired us. We have decided to march from across the country, especially from Calcutta and Mumbai to Delhi to protest against privatising of banks… On November 30, a mega rally will be held at Jantar Mantar where we have invited members of all Opposition parties to speak,” said Soumya Dutta, the general secretary of All India Bank Officers’ Confederation, at a news meet on Monday in Calcutta. He said several memorandums and letters had been sent to Mamata Banerjee and her party MPs as well. Mamata has agreed to stand by the anti-privatisation movement. The confederation believes that Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman will table a legislation to privatise public sector banks. If the legislation is passed in Parliament, around Rs 60.7 lakh crore of individual bank deposits will lose the security of banks, the bankers’ union said. “Former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee, who was from the BJP, had protested against the government decision to nationalise all private banks... Years later his successors are selling all these banks to crony capitalists,” Dutta added. “This proves that the move to privatise PSBs is not an economic decision but a political one,” he added. The confederation also alleged that such a decision would affect the priority sectors, namely small and marginal farmers, non-corporate individual farmers, micro-enterprises, self-help groups and weaker sections such as the SCs, STs and minorities. Almost 60 per cent of the total credit to three sections come from the 12 PSBs and 43 regional rural banks. Economist Prasenjit Bose, who was also present at the news conference, said 70 per cent of the total assets privatised in the last 30 years had been done under Narendra Modi’s rule.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-89
23-11-2021||West Bengal||Govt assigns 2 officials to handhold Deocha-Pachami mining project||The state government has posted two officers in Birbhum, including one in the rank of additional district magistrate, to solely look after proceedings related to the proposed Deocha-Pachami coal mine project in the district. Officials said the decision to appoint these officials for the project showed how keen the government was to start it without hiccups. “The state wants to take up the process of rehabilitation  work for land-losers at the earliest after it announced a Rs 10,000 crore rehab package for land-losers in the area (earlier this month). This is the reason why two senior officials have been sent to the district. The officers are at the disposal of DM and they would be given responsibility according to the ground requirements,” said a senior official. Sources said it appears that these officials have been sent to look after the basic work related to land  so that the project can start smoothly. “They can be given responsibility to handle the queries of the affected people. There will be a need for more officials in future once mining work starts,” a source said. Sources said the state can send few additional police officers in the district to handle law and order, if the need for it arises. The Deocha-Pachami coal mine is the largest coal block in the state and has a stock of around 2.2 billion tonnes of coal underneath the stone layer and it has the potential to generate over one lakh direct employment. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee  on November 9 announced the rehabilitation package for those who will be affected by the mega project. It offered details of the government’s land rates and government job of junior constable to a member of each affected family, among others. Officials said the two additional officers are Dina Narayan Ghosh, additional district magistrate (development) in Jhargram, and Shibaji Adak, another WBCS  officer posted in the clinical health department in Calcutta. Birbhum has three posts of additional district magistrates, ADM (general) ADM (development), ADM (zilla parsihad) and ADM (land). The newly appointed Ghosh, the fourth ADM, will be deployed in tasks meant for the coal mine. “He could be assigned directly to look after the land and rehabilitation related issues or he would replace one of the existing ADMs to take care of coal mine matters,” said an official in Birbhum. Sources said the government wants to start mining very soon as it will help them solve unemployment to an extent and generate revenue. A recent initial survey by Nabanna revealed that the government could slash production cost of electricity by 74 paise per unit once it starts mining coal from  the Deocha-Pachami coal mine. The government has already held meetings with tribal heads of 18 hamlets which are likely to be affected by the coal mine and is waiting for response from people in those villages on the rehabilitation package. “We have already opened offices where the doubts or grievances of villagers are being addressed. We would first want to read the pulse of the local people before taking any step in the project,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-89
23-11-2021||West Bengal||Siliguri: Makeshift bamboo bridge raises questions||A makeshift bamboo bridge for two-wheelers built by local youths on the Balason river to the northwest-end of Siliguri, parallel to the main bridge under repairs, has prompted mixed reactions. Since October 20, traffic on the bridge over Balason river came to a halt as one of its pillars tilted and a part of its concrete plank sank owing to the impact of the monsoon-fed river. Only pedestrians can cross the structure where the state PWD is installing a Bailey bridge. As a result, thousands who travel to Siliguri from the northwest have to take a turnaround route via Asian Highway-II to reach Siliguri. Sources said some local youths of Matigara block where the Balason bridge is located built a makeshift bridge of bamboo and iron poles. In all, 25 iron poles have been buried into the riverbed to support the 20-foot bridge. “It took four days and Rs 60,000 to build this temporary bridge. Only two-wheelers can move through it,” said Ananta Barman, a resident of Baniakhali More of Matigara, one of the initiators. Barman said he and a couple of his friends built the bamboo bridge after seeing the inconveniences faced by thousands of people to reach Siliguri since over a month, with long detours. From each two-wheeler availing the bamboo bridge, they are charging Rs 10. Some commuters pointed out they save on fuel by using this bamboo bridge and so Rs 10 does not matter. Others questioned what authority local youths have to build a bridge on the river or collect usage fee from commuters. Ratan Saha, a daily commuter from Shivmandir to City Centre in Siliguri, said if he used the bamboo bridge he would not have to take a detour through AH-II to reach his office. “This means, I can save on fuel costs for around 20km. Compared to it, Rs 10 is a minor matter. It is good that the local youths have come up with the bridge,” Saha said. Matigara block administration officials said they will look into the issue. “We will conduct an inquiry and only then comment it,” said Sribash Biswas, the BDO of Matigara.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-89
23-11-2021||West Bengal||MAKAUT New tech courses to gear up for new normal||Maulana Abul Kalam Azad University of Technology (MAKAUT) is inspiring technical colleges affiliated to it to start new technical courses to gear up for new situations that have emerged during the pandemic. These include online-teaching-learning processes and telemedicine as people would continue to use them. “We must remember that Covid situation is not over. We have to be ready as no one knows when the pandemic will suddenly erupt again. Students who can’t attend physical classes will attend them online. So, offline and online methods would prevail. That is why we are asking our colleges to introduce new courses,” said Saikat Maitra, the vice-chancellor of MAKAUT, at a national seminar on National Education Policy 2020 organised by Haldia Institute of Technology and Global Institute of Science and Technology on Monday. K.K. Agarwal, chairman, National Board of Accreditation, was the chief guest and a keynote speaker. In the seminar, the VC also emphasised on how the demand of online medicine, online shopping and telemedicine increased during the pandemic and people had become dependent on those platforms. “We have seen when Covid broke out in a big way, a medical crisis was created all over the country. If telemedicine technology can be developed, the medical system can extend the benefits of sophisticated treatment to remote areas,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-89
23-11-2021||West Bengal|| Union minister of state for railways visits Sevoke-Rangpo rail route  site||Raosaheb Patil Danve, the Union minister of state for railways, on Monday visited the site of the Sevoke-Rangpo rail route that will connect Rangpo, the bordering town of Sikkim, from Sevoke station in Darjeeling district, some 20km from here. He inspected two tunnels and a bridge along the route and asserted that the project would be ready by 2023. “Work on the project is going on in full swing. Our plan is to open the route by 2023 and we hope the rail route will be ready by then. It will largely help in boosting the economy of Sikkim and will also create a new mode of communication for residents of the state,” said Danve after his visit. The ambitious project to connect the Himalayan state of Sikkim that sits on the India-China border has emerged as a priority project for the railways, considering the recent activities of China in Arunachal Pradesh and in the Chumbi Valley area that is near Bengal and Bhutan. Earlier this month, the general manager of Northeast Frontier Railway (NFR) had visited the project site. He had also visited Sikkim and had met P.S. Tamang (Golay), the Sikkim chief minister, to discuss the project. The project was launched in 2009 when Mamata Banerjee was the Union railways minister. The 44.96km rail route has 14 tunnels and 13 bridges. Out of the total stretch, around 40km are within Bengal and the rest within Sikkim. “Once this project is complete, necessary steps would be taken to connect Rangpo with Gangtok, the capital of Sikkim,” said an NFR source. Railway officials said the total length of tunnels along the route was 38.686km. Of this, tunnels have been built over 11.7km and every month, around 1km of tunnel is being built. The total investment for the project is around Rs 8,000 crores, an official said. The rail project is important for security reasons, considering Sikkim’s location, defence analysts said. They recalled the Doklam standoff of 2017 between Indian and Chinese troops and underscored the need for a rail network to help ferry defence equipment to the borders. “The rail route is of optimum importance, given the recent activities of China. Also, a number of stretches of NH10 (the principal highway to Sikkim) are landslide-prone and the road regularly gets blocked, especially during monsoon months. In such a situation, a parallel transport network to connect Sikkim is vital,” said a former officer of the Indian Army.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-89
23-11-2021||West Bengal||Mamata says she'll discuss BSF jurisdiction with PM Modi||Mamata Banerjee on Monday said she would meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi in New Delhi primarily to discuss the Centre’s decision to expand the jurisdiction of the Border Security Force (BSF) in Bengal, asserting that it was a crucial issue she wanted answers on. The Bengal chief minister issued a statement at the Calcutta airport in the afternoon, on her way to the national capital, reiterating her stand against allowing the “grabbing of areas” by alleged use of force. “I am going to Delhi now, for a few days. You are all aware that this had been finalised as a programme for some time. I have an appointment with the Prime Minister…. There are some matters, development-related and others… pertaining to our state that I intend to take up with him. Especially, the issue of the BSF, that is something I am going to talk to him about,” said Mamata at the airport. “We will not allow grabbing of areas by the use of force,” she added. On Tuesday, Bengal became the second state after Punjab to have a resolution passed — by 112:63 votes — in its Assembly against the Union home ministry’s decision to expand the jurisdiction of the BSF from 15km to 50km from the international border. The resolution, moved by the ruling Trinamul Congress, was bitterly opposed by the 63 MLAs of the BJP who showed up in the 294-seat House. The BJP went on to demand that the jurisdiction of the BSF be enhanced to an even greater extent, till 80km from the international borders, in Bengal. “The BSF is not my enemy, they are also my friend. But the way the BJP thinks the BSF means the BJP, and the BSF means BJP safe, it is not correct,” said the Trinamul chief on Monday. The state government believes if the decision of the Union home ministry ê under Amit Shah — is implemented, 11 of the state’s 23 districts  will go almost entirely under the jurisdiction of the BSF. This would include a lion’s share of north Bengal and 37 per cent of the entire territory of the state. “Every organisation is unique. Law and order is a state subject. State police is a cadre. Other agencies, such as the CISF (Central Industrial Security Force), the CRPF (Central Reserve Police Force), the BSF… they too are separate cadres. Every agency has its own dignity. But in total disregard of that, they (the BJP) are using force to make the (central) agencies work for their party,” alleged Mamata. Trinamul secretary-general Partha Chatterjee has said Bengal shares 2,164.71km of international borders with Nepal, Bhutan and Bangladesh, so if the expansion of the BSF jurisdiction takes place, 32,400 sqkm out of the state’s total area of 88,752 sqkm will go under the central agency. “The central decision is an attempt to impose central rule on vast swathes of the state, through the backdoor. That is totally unacceptable,” said Chatterjee, the state’s parliamentary affairs minister. Faleiro elected to RS Former Goa chief minister Luizinho Faleiro — who had joined Trinamul after four decades in the Congress in September — was elected unopposed to the Rajya Sabha from Bengal on Monday, in the absence of any other candidate for the November 29 bypoll. The bypoll had been announced following the resignation of Trinamul’s Arpita Ghosh as a member of the Upper House. Faleiro, a national vice-president of Mamata’s party, is the first person from Goa to become a Trinamul MP and can occupy the seat till April 2026. Mamata had already made it clear that her party would contest the election to the 40-seat Assembly of the western state in February next year, in a bid to unseat the BJP’s Pramod Sawant government there. Trinamul has 13 of the 16 Rajya Sabha seats from Bengal, while the Congress has two and the CPM has one.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-90
23-11-2021||West Bengal||‘Normal ties’ with China hit due to border transgression: Shringla||Foreign secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla said that India has not been able to “lead normal ties” with China following “multiple attempts at transgression of the line of actual control by China” last year. The Centre has largely remained silent on the India-China border issue since reports of transgression at the LAC since last year. Shringla was replying to a question of The Telegraph at a charity event in Darjeeling on Sunday said since 1988 it has been largely accepted that the two countries will isolate the border-related issue from others such as trade and people-to-people ties, but that will also depend on the premise of peace and tranquillity in the border areas. “What we have seen last year is multiple attempts at transgression of the Line of Actual Control by China in eastern Ladakh.  Obviously, that has contributed to anything but peace and tranquillity in the border areas, that has actually disturbed the peace and tranquillity as a result of which we have not been able to lead normal ties,” said Shringla. In 1988, Rajiv Gandhi became India’s first Prime Minister to visit China in 34 years following an invitation by then Chinese premier Li Peng. During that visit, it was agreed by India and China to set up a working committee on border issues and a separate committee for economy, trade and science and technology. “The essential construct with China since 1988 has been that we will isolate the border related issue, it will be handled at the level of special representative of both countries, but we will go ahead with trade, with people-to-people ties and other areas but that was dedicated on peace and tranquillity in the border areas,” said Shringla. The foreign secretary, however, added that these border issues were being discussed in the border talks. “We have been discussing, even the issue of eastern Ladakh and the issues of last year with China in the border talks… We have had 13 rounds of senior commanders’ talks, we have had several rounds of what is called the working mechanism, the last talks took place just earlier this week,” the foreign secretary added. The senior bureaucrat said that India’s stand was very clear on the matter. “Essentially our point is very clear. You resolve the boundary issues, you resolve the border issues that were created by you and we could move forward on the other issues. Until those issues are addressed, we are not able to conduct what is a normal relation,” the official stressed. Apart from the“attempts” of transgression in Ladakh, there are media reports and statements from the Congress that the latest intrusion could involve the building of infrastructure some 6-7 km inside Indian territory by the Chinese along with reported encroachments into Bhutanese territory. Frontier visit On Monday, Shringla visited the north Bengal frontier headquarters of the Border Security Force (BSF) at Kadamtala on the outskirts of Siliguri. Ravi Gandhi, inspector general of the north Bengal frontier of the force, had an interaction during which the foreign secretary was briefed about the prevailing situation on the India-Bangladesh border and how the BSF, along with Border Guard Bangladesh (BGB) were working to strengthen security at the borders. A number of other issues concerning security, diplomacy and bilateral matters were discussed in detail during the visit, said sources. Additional reporting from Avijit Sinha in Siliguri||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-90
23-11-2021||West Bengal||‘House-warming’ to push East Midnapore project||Over 6,000 government officials and employees of East Midnapore, from the district magistrate to a gram panchayat staffer, on Monday visited 88,000 houses completed under the state government housing scheme in the district as part of its “Griha Prabesh (house-warming)” drive launched in August to push the construction of  thousands of homes pending for three financial years. Senior state government officials said it was very uncommon for the entire civil administrative apparatus of the civil administration of a district to focus on a specific government project. All house owners across 223 gram panchayats of the district received a “letter of greetings” from chief minister Mamata Banerjee. “East Midnapore district is the fourth-highest beneficiary among districts under the Bangla Awas Yojana (state government’s rural housing project). Unfortunately many beneficiaries here had not utilised the money (given to them by the government to build homes) properly. This was really unprecedented that over 6,000 officials were engaged to visit the houses (that were ready),” said an official. Sources said East Midnapore sanctioned around 2.79 lakh houses under Bangla Awas Yojana in the past six financial years since 2016-17 but the rate of completion of the homes was poor and the percentage of cumulative completion of houses only 68 per cent. After a survey in August, the district administration gave an ultimatum to all panchayats to complete the houses by November 22 and said officials would reach out to all complete houses in a two-day drive to celebrate Griha Prabesh. Monday was the first day of the drive reach out to the 1.76 lakh houses completed so far. “Many people were constructing their houses slowly for unknown reasons and for this reason our district was lagging behind others. In a bid to boost the progress of completion of the houses, we announced that officials would reach out to the houses completed within our deadline,” said Purnendu Maji, the district magistrate. “The drive just worked like magic and people reacted very well,” he added. Under the project, a beneficiary gets Rs 1.20 lakh in three instalments — Rs 65,000 in the first instalment and the rest Rs 55,000 in two equal two instalments. Sources said many beneficiaries did not construct their houses after receiving the first instalment and did not apply for next two instalments. This became a challenge for the district administration that led them to find out the defaulters and take stern action. “Those who took the money but did not start work on houses were asked to return the money to the government. Based on specific complaints, four persons, who neither built houses, nor returned the money, were arrested recently,” said an official. On Monday, officials, including the district magistrate, formed teams and reached out to 88,000 houses. They cut the ribbon of new houses and gave letters of greetings from the chief minister. On Tuesday, they will visit the rest 88,000 of the completed homes. “We did three things at a time through our drive. First, we encouraged other beneficiaries who received funds for the housing scheme. Second, we requested all to take a second dose of the Covid vaccine. Third, we made a survey of families who have not been enlisted under other government schemes even if they are eligible for them,” said Maji. Arati Malakar, a beneficiary from Mahishadal in East Midnapore, was overwhelmed when a team led by Maji visited her house. “I had no land and the government allotted funds for lease land. I am really happy that so many officials came to my home,” said Malakar. Mahisadal MLA Tilok Chakraborty said: “It was a nice and effective initiative as the tendency of the people not to complete houses was increasing in our area.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-90
23-11-2021||West Bengal||615 new Covid cases, 676 recoveries and 14 deaths in Bengal||Bengal on Monday reported 615 new Covid19 infections, 676 recoveries and 14 deaths, resulting in a drop by 75 in its active cases to 7,945 now, below 8,000 again after November 11. Calcutta reported 173 new infections and five deaths on Monday. North 24Parganas reported 138 new infections and four deaths. These were the only two of the state’s 23 districts with a threedigit figure of new cases found in a day. Nine districts reported a single digit figure. Calcutta, North and South 24Parganas, Howrah, Hooghly and Nadia accounted for 466 or 75.77 per cent of the new infections detected on Monday. Seventeen districts reported zero deaths. A minister new infections reported on Monday indicated infections between November 13 (Jagaddhatri Puja) and November 17. Over the past 58 days since Bengal broke its 97day streak of fall in active case numbers or Covid patients under treatment, there has been a net rise of 271 in active cases, from 7,674. Bengal’s daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 2.34 per cent on Monday. The state’s recovery rate is 98.3 per cent, a shade below the national rate of 98.31. Its mortality rate is 1.2 per cent, while that of the nation is 1.34 per cent. Bengal now has over 16.1 lakh Covid19 cases since the first logged in March 2020. The total includes more than 15.83 lakh recoveries and 19,397 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-90
23-11-2021||West Bengal||Biman seeks exit from party posts, cites age||CPM veteran and Left Front chairman Biman Bose wants to be “relieved” from all “party committees” soon to pave the way for new faces in the leadership. Bose, now 81, and the party's politburo member, attributed his decision to age and advised the party to repose faith in younger leaders. He, however, did not indicate any specific timeline about his proposed exit. Speaking at a condolence meeting of former party MLA Nani Malakar in Nadia's Haringhata on Monday evening, Bose clarified the age factor and said: “There is no question of continuing in the leadership anymore. This would be unethical.” He added: “It is not just that I have decided thus. Even if I wish to stay it won’t possible for me. I told this to our state secretary Surjya Kanta Mishra in the last state conference. We have certain regulations. So I told him that I should be relieved from all party committees.” Indicating this was the need of the hour, the octogenarian leader said: “You may wonder why I am saying this... because the new ones should be given the responsibilities in the leadership. New, young faces once had played the key role in developing the party. People like M.N. Roy were there… he was below 30 then,” he said. Categorically announcing he wouldn't be in any committee of the party, he said he would work as a party member without a portfolio. “I will not be in any committee, but remain in the party and obey all the directives and the do the job the leadership assigns me,” he said. “Even on (the matter of) attending district conferences, I told Surjya Kanta Mishra about my choice. I will go wherever he advises. Similarly, I will do whatever work the leadership asks me to do.” He added: “Jara party koren tader modhye ei manovab thaka uchit (those in the party should have this mindset),” he told his colleagues.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-90
23-11-2021||West Bengal||Didi wants Tripura ‘atrocities’ to be heard nationally, to meet Modi||A Tripura court on Monday evening granted bail to Trinamul youth wing leader Sayani Ghosh, who had been arrested by police on Sunday evening on charges of attempt to murder and promoting enmity between groups. The arrest prompted Trinamul MPs to raise the issue before Union home minister Amit Shah in New Delhi on Monday but not before staging a sit-in outside North Block over his alleged refusal to meet them over the arrest. The MPs submitted a memorandum to Shah and claimed that he had heard them out. They claimed he had spoken to Tripura chief minister Biplab Deb on Sunday and will do so again. Before leaving for Delhi on an official trip, Trinamul chief Mamata Banerjee also spoke about the “atrocities” in the BJP-ruled Tripura and vowed to take up the issue during her meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi because the “Tripura story must be heard nationally, from Mumbai to Delhi”. Mamata said: “The atrocities in Tripura, what’s going on there… the skeleton of democracy tumbling out in the open in BJP-ruled states. Sayoni, an artiste, is being charged with attempted murder, from what I heard.” The Supreme Court will on Tuesday hear a contempt petition filed by Trinamul MP Sushmita Dev on how its November 11 order to the Tripura government to provide security to candidates of municipal polls was being violated, Trinamul general secretary Abhishek Banerjee said at a media conference in Agartala. Sayani’s counsel Shankar Lodh told The Telegraph that she was produced in the additional chief judicial magistarte’s court, West Tripura, Agartala, around 2 pm and the hearing lasted for about 40 minutes. “The court has granted bail on a bond of Rs 20,000 and one surety after considering the circumstances, records and case diary. The court came to the conclusion that there is no ingredient for Sections 307 and 153 (A), the non-bailable sections. The only condition imposed is that she will have to cooperate with the investigating agency, appear whenever she is summoned,” Lodh said. Sayani was booked under Sections 153 (provocation which could lead to rioting)/153A( promoting enmity between different groups), 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation), 307 (attempt to murder) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) by West Tripura police on Sunday afternoon. The arrest was made on the eve of Abhishek Banerjee’s visit to Agartala to shore up Trinamul’s prospects in the November 25 urban local body polls, which are likely to see a three-way contest among the BJP, Left Front and debutant Trinamul. Abhishek Banerjee, who addressed a press meet after his public meeting on Monday was cancelled because of escalating political tension, said that party candidates and leaders were attacked despite orders from the Supreme Court. “The party of goons, BJP, is so shameless that they have started to make supreme mockery of the Supreme Court,” Banerjee said. The police said both the BJP and Trinamul were not given permission to hold rallies in Agartala to avoid political tension but both could hold street-corner meetings.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-90
