24-11-2021||West Bengal||Didi meets Modi in Delhi, extends invite to inaugutrate Bengal Global Summit||Prime Minister Narendra Modi may well inaugurate the next Bengal Global Summit to be held in Calcutta on April 20-21 should he decide to honour an invitation extended by chief minister Mamata Banerjee during her meeting with him in the national capital on Wednesday. “The industry is in a poor condition because of Covid. I have requested the Prime Minister to inaugurate BGS. Our political differences will remain, but that should not impact Centre-state ties,” Mamata said after her meeting with Modi at South Block. “Given the Covid situation, we are not sure how many countries will participate but if the Centre and state work together then it will send a strong message and show the right direction to the industry,” she added, indicating that the Prime Minister had accepted her invitation. Mamata is also understood to have raised the issue of the BSF's territorial jurisdiction in the state, demanding that it be withdrawn. The Bengal chief minister also discussed the contentious issue of granting more powers to the BSF, Covid vaccine and problems faced by the jute industry.  She also spoke to the Prime Minister about violence in Tripura in which TMC workers were allegedly assaulted by BJP workers. On the upcoming Uttar Pradesh polls, she said, "If Akhilesh (Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav) needs our help, then we are ready to extend help." During this visit to the national capital, Mamata has acquired "assets" for states like Bihar, Jharkhand and Haryana as three leaders, Pavan Varma, Kirti Azaad and Ashok Tanwar joined the Trinamul on Tuesday. Ahead of her meeting with Modi, BJP MP Subramanyan Swamy met Mamata that fuelled speculation that he too was on his way out. Since joining the BJP Swamy has been eyeing the finance ministry berth but was kept out of the cabinet by Modi in both the terms. “What is the harm if Swamy met me? Relationships are above politics,” she said. The Bengal chief minister claimed she had not sought any appointments with the Congress working president Sonia Gandhi as she was busy with the polls in Punjab. The fact is that the slew of defections the Trinamul has engineered from the Congress state units across the country would have cast its shadow on any meeting between the two leaders. While Punjab will go to polls next year along with Uttar Pradesh, the Election Commission is yet to announce the dates for the polls. With Charanjit Singh Channi appointed as chief minister, there is little immediate fire-fighting to be done for the Congress in the state, where former chief minister Amarinder Singh is ready to align with the BJP. Mamata said she will be going to Mumbai on November 30, where she will meet NCP chief Sharad Pawar and Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray. Both NCP and the Shiv Sena are in alliance with the Congress running the Mahavikas Agadhi government. “We are within our rights to set up units in any state. During the UP elections I will visit if the party decides,” she said. “We will not contest in every election. We will contest only when it is necessary. Elsewhere, we will extend support.” In  Uttar Pradesh, the late chief minister, Kamalapati Tripathi’s grandson and great-grandson have joined the Trinamul. Mamata said she had plans to visit Varanasi, also Modi’s constituency, though the purpose was religious. Taking a dig at Mamata’s meeting with Modi, Congress leader in the Lok Sabha and Bengal unit president Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury said, “The PM will give her tips on how to further weaken the Congress.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-87
24-11-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul leader shot in Howrah||A Trinamul leader was shot dead near his house in Howrah’s Nazirgunge on Monday. The bullets were fired at around 10.15pm on Monday when Wazhul Khan, secretary of Trinamul’s minority cell in Howrah, was just a few steps away from his house after wrapping up his customary interaction with local residents. Alarmed at the sound of gunshots, some local youths stepped out and saw Khan lying in a pool of blood. He was rushed to a private hospital in Andul where he later succumbed to bullet injuries. “Every night my brother would walk down to this house, which is about three minutes from his residence in Nazirgunge, to meet and interact with local residents,” said Guddu Khan, Wazhul’s brother. Police have arrested two persons for their alleged involvement in Khan’s murder. “We have scanned some of the CCTV footage and are trying to reach a few others who were present at the spot,” said a senior officer of Nazirgunge police station. Kalyan Ghosh, Trinamul’s Howrah district president, said: “The murder is a part of the BJP’s design to create unrest in this part of Howrah ahead of the proposed civic polls.” The BJP leadership has denied the party’s involvement. “His brother Guddu has joined our party,” said Umesh Rai, BJP's senior leader in Howrah. Diamond Harbour: A driver had a narrow escape when his tractor got stuck on the tracks with a train moving in early on Tuesday. The driver managed to jump out of the vehicle in time to escape death between Sangrampur and Deula stations in the Sealdah south section. The train’s driver tried to slow down but ended up hitting the tractor. The timings of some local trains had to be tweaked because of the accident.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-88
24-11-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal logs 720 new Covid cases, 741 recoveries and 10 deaths||Bengal on Tuesday reported 720 new Covid-19 infections, 741 recoveries and 10 deaths, dragging down active cases by 31 to 7,914 now. A minister said new infections reported on Tuesday indicated infections between November 14 and 18. Calcutta reported 211 new infections and four deaths. North 24-Parganas reported 134 new infections and one death. These were the only two districts with a three-digit figure of new cases found in a day. Six districts reported a single-digit figure. Seventeen districts reported zero deaths. Calcutta, North and South 24-Parganas, Howrah, Hooghly and Nadia accounted for 536 or 74.44 per cent of new infections detected on Tuesday. Over the past 59 days, since Bengal snapped out of a 97-day streak of constant fall in its active cases or Covid patients under treatment, the state recorded a rise in active cases for 33 days, a fall for 25 days and status quo on one day. In these 59 days, there has been a net rise of 240 in the state’s active cases, from 7,674. Bengal’s daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 2 per cent on Tuesday. The state’s recovery rate is 98.3 per cent, a shade below the national rate of 98.32. The state’s mortality rate is 1.2 per cent, while that of the nation is 1.34 per cent. Bengal now has over 16.11 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was logged in March last year. The total includes nearly 15.84 lakh recoveries and 19,407 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-88
24-11-2021||West Bengal||Peeping Toms held in Malda hotel ||Two persons were arrested after a couple from Howrah, who had checked into a hotel in the heart of Malda town, alleged they were being recorded on video with a smartphone inside their room through a ventilator. The couple from Nityanandanagar, Howrah, had come to Malda on November 21 to attend a wedding, and had checked into the hotel at Krishnakalitala in Englishbazar. “On Sunday night, the husband noticed someone from the adjacent room was using a smartphone to record them through a ventilator of a toilet,” said a police source. They raised the matter with other members of the marriage party and the police following which two persons in the next room were arrested. “On receiving a written complaint from the couple, police arrested Sagar Karmakar, of Pukhuria in Malda district, and Tanmay Bhattacharya, of Lake Town in Calcutta, on Monday evening,” said a police source, adding Karmakar is a medical representative and Bhattacharya an area manager of the same company. The duo used to frequently stay at this hotel. Initially, the hotel owner’s son was also detained in connection with this case. He was later released. Krishnendu Choudhury, the secretary of the Malda hotel owners’ association, when asked about this case, said that the hotel in question did have some problems regarding the placement of ventilators in some toilets of the hotel. “However, those have been sorted out. The police have taken the right action (in arresting the duo). However, the hotel authorities had nothing to do with the incident,” said Choudhury. Bodies found Roni Das (22), a polytechnic student, and Sambika Roy (18) were found dead on Malda aerodrome premises on Tuesday morning. Senior police officers who went to the spot discovered a damaged two-wheeler lying near the two bodies. Police suspect that the duo died in a major accident. However, the family members of the victims have demanded a thorough investigation into the deaths, suspecting murder. “We suspect that they might have fallen off the runway while riding the two-wheeler at high speed. However, investigations into the deaths are on and the bodies have been sent for post-mortem. The report of the post-mortem can shed more light on the cause of death,” said Prashanta Debnath, deputy superintendent of police (headquarters) of Malda.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-88
24-11-2021||West Bengal||Nepal ties hinge on people’s bond: Harsh Vardhan Shringla||Foreign secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla has said that India-Nepal relations are essentially geared around people-to-people contact and not necessarily within the ambit of treaties, a damper to Darjeeling-based political parties which have since long demanded Article VII of the Indo-Nepal Friendship Treaty, 1950, be scrapped. Article VII of the treaty grants privileges such as free movement of citizens between India and Nepal and the freedom to conduct business in each other’s territory. Most Darjeeling-based parties believe that this provision has blurred the identity of Indian Gorkhas from the citizens of Nepal, and one way to resolve this identity crisis is to create  the Gorkhaland state. Shringla, replying to a query of this paper at an event in Darjeeling on Sunday, said while India was always happy to discuss any issue related to the treaty, not everything was based on documents. “But you would understand that relations between Nepal and India are not necessarily within the ambit of what are documents or instruments. It is essentially based on people-to-people contact that has happened over centuries... and that I think is the bond between the two countries,” said Shringla. India and Nepal are considered natural allies but Nepal, too, has reservations over the treaty. Prime Minister Narendra Modi agreed to review the entire spectrum of bilateral relations between India and Nepal during his visit to Kathmandu in 2014, including this treaty. Following this, an Eminent Persons Group for Nepal-India Relations (EPG-NIR) was formed in 2016 comprising eight members — four each from both the countries — and co-chaired by former Uttarakhand chief minister Bhagat Singh Koshyari and former Nepal foreign minister Bhekh Bahadur Thapa. Nine meetings, six in Nepal and three in India, were held and the report was readied in 2018. However, a source said that the PMO office had not even received the report. “The statement of the foreign secretary is a reflection of the government’s thought on India-Nepal relations and past events also suggest they are not too interested in reviving a treaty that is very damaging for the Indian Gorkhas,” said Harka Bahadur Chhetri, former Kalimpong MLA. Chhetri said the government's stand reflected the abilities of hill leaders. “The foreign secretary’s statement makes one think aloud that our representatives at the Centre have not been able to impress the government in our interest,” said Chhetri. The scrapping of Article VII of the treaty was first raised by Subash Ghisingh, the GNLF founder, in the mid-80s. On July 27, 1986, 13 people had been killed in police firing in Kalimpong when GNLF supporters were on their way to burn copies of the treaty. Since then the issue has been one of the focal points of hill politics.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-88
24-11-2021||West Bengal||BJP pre-election promises to lunch host ‘go off menu’||Members of a poor Rajbanshi family in North 24-Parganas, who hosted lunch for Union minister of state for home Nityanand Rai on January 4, accused the Bengal BJP of making false promises before the Assembly polls. Brothers Joydeb Mondal and Kalipada Mondal, and their family members in Shibhati-Sangrampur village in Basirhat alleged the saffron party reneged on even a promise to help in the treatment of a young daughter of the house who cannot speak properly. This comes close on the heels of a similar alleged breach of promise. Bankura villager Bibhishan Hansda, who hosted lunch for Union home minister Amit Shah on November 5 last year, accused the BJP of not delivering on its pre-poll promise of continuous medical aid for his diabetic daughter. Such lunches in the run-up to the Assembly elections was part of the BJP’s social outreach events for the downtrodden communities of the state. BJP supporters Joydeb and Kalipada got a chance to host one such lunch for Rai. “The minister said a few words. The other leaders assured us of a good life, a home, job for our daughter and medical support to cure her speech problem. But the BJP lost the polls and since then no leader contacted us,” said Joydeb. “We were most keen on medical aid for our 21-year-old daughter Priyanka, who has a vocal chord problem since childhood. She is an undergraduate” added the farm worker who earns Rs 6,000 a month. Kalipada’s wife Champa Mondal said they cooked a lavish lunch by their standards for Rai, including paneer, dhoka and nolen gurer payesh. Priyanka added they survive on ration and support offered by the state government. BJP’s Basirhat organising district president Tarak Ghosh refuted the charges. “It is a family of our party sympathisers... There was no promise in exchange of lunch. If anyone interprets it that way, it is unfortunate. None of the family members spoke to us about their problems. I will talk to them  soon,” Ghosh said. Local Trinamul leader and panchayat pradhan Sanjoy Sarkar said: “The BJP tried to use the family to mobilise the support of tribal and downtrodden community voters in the area. But the poll results unveiled their ploy. As a party we don’t need to do anything special for them because there are state government-run welfare schemes that they get. We have only ensured that they get the benefits of all schemes they are eligible for.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-88
24-11-2021||West Bengal||East Burdwan: Left seeks farmer connect with jatra||The CPM in East Burdwan’s Khandaghosh is striving to go back to the basics and revive its connect with people through the jatra. The folk form is a huge draw among people, mostly farmers in a district known as Bengal’s rice bowl. The recent success of the farmers’ movement, which includes the CPM-affiliated All-India Kisan Sabha as one of the key players, against the Centre’s controversial farms laws gave the Left a new push to reach out to Bengal’s peasants. Last week, Khandaghosh-I area committee held its party conference that was followed by a jatra. The jatra — Andha golir bandi pakhi (A caged bird of a dark lane) — was about two sisters, their lovers and a corrupt MLA. Party leaders said the All-India Kisan Sabha (AIKS) and other frontal wings of the party sought to revive the tradition of staging jatras to convey socio-political messages to farmers. Much before the Left Front rode to power in 1977, the CPM adopted jatras to connect with people. “But the long stint in power led to a gradual detachment with people,” admitted a veteran of the AIKS in East Burdwan. “We are trying to return to the our tradition to connect with people. Last week, hundreds of villagers sat for at least four hours to see the jatra,” said Binod Ghosh, a district committee member of CPM and a state committee member of the AIKS. All actors were local CPM party members such as Sufi Badre Alam, the block president of the AIKS in Khandaghosh. “It is our first move after a long time and we will continue it in East Burdwan. The rehearsals of two more jatras are already on,” said Ghosh. AIKS state secretary Amal Haldar welcomed the initiative. "Such initiatives will help us strike the right bond with the farmers again,” said Haldar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-88
24-11-2021||West Bengal||Three persons loot Rs 19 lakh from Uttarbanga Kshetriya Gramin Bank ||Three persons allegedly looted Rs 19 lakh from Uttarbanga Kshetriya Gramin Bank at Nigamnagar of Dinhata subdivision, some 30km from Cooch Behar town on Tuesday. Police sources said according to bank manager Arijit Bhowmik and cashier Atarul Rahman, the three criminals entered the premises around 10.55am on Tuesday. “The employees claim they were in the process of bringing cash from the locker room to the cash counter for the daily transaction when the trio entered,” said a police source. According to bank employees, they were entering the locker room to get the second tranche of cash when the three criminals pushed them and locked them inside the locker room. Then, they fled the spot with around Rs 19 lakh. After barely five minutes, a bank staffer, Chandra Shekar Barma, reportedly opened the locker room to let them out. Police, however, are exploring all angles. “Surprisingly there was no hue and cry or any alarm raised by any staff during and after the incident. Even local residents did not hear anything. They came to know about it only after police arrived,” said the police source. “We have started an investigation and are looking into all aspects thoroughly,” Cooch Behar SP Sumit Kumar said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-88
24-11-2021||West Bengal||Hills varsity issues notice seeking application to six new PG courses||Darjeeling Hills University (DHU) on Tuesday issued a notice seeking application to six new postgraduate courses to kickstart the new varsity but many academics from the hills feel more non-regular courses should be included to make it a standout centre in the region. Starting Wednesday, students can apply online for admission to postgraduate courses in English, political science, Nepali, history, mass communication and mathematics for the 2021-22 session. “The start of a new university is always welcome. However, if only regular courses are offered it would be just another university. For regular courses there are many choices... There is a university in almost every district of the state now,” said a hill academic. Many in the hills believe that “market relevant” courses and region-specific courses need to be introduced to make the university stand out. “Natural resources and sustainable development, data science and business analytics, informatics, fashion, microbial science and management are some streams that could be explored,” the academic added. DHU will come up at Mungpoo, about 30km from Darjeeling and till the building is set up, will start from the Mungpoo ITI college. Many in the education field maintained the direction of any varsity is set by  academics involved at the start. Dr Subires Bhattacharya, vice-chancellor, North Bengal University, who has been given additional charge of DHU, said his team would “definitely” look into introducing non-regular and vocation-based courses in the university. “Let me first start the university with six courses. Thereafter, we will definitely think of other courses, vocational and short-term courses. We are obviously thinking on those line,” said Bhattacharya The university official said at the moment DHU would follow the NBU syllabus. “Once recruitment of teachers and other issues are taken care of, a new syllabus will be worked out,” said Bhattacharya. The vice-chancellor said that for this academic year, the DHU syllabus would be slightly truncated as the academic session has started slightly late. “But this is being done as per UGC norms,” he added. The demand for a university in Darjeeling was first raised in 1955. Although the state government had passed a bill to set up the hill university in 2018, the process was expedited after the delay was pointed out to chief minister Mamata Banerjee at an administrative meeting at Kurseong on October 26.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-88
24-11-2021||West Bengal||Centre fixes Nov 30 as last date for linking ration cards with Aadhaar ||The state government on Tuesday informed Calcutta High Court that even though the Centre had fixed November 30 as the last date for linking ration cards with Aadhaar cards, the people of Bengal would get the benefit of completing the process even after the deadline. A PIL filed before the division bench of Chief Justice Prakash Srivastava alleged while rest of the states had already completed the linking process, Bengal had finished just 62 per cent of the job. The petitioner claimed it was impossible for Bengal to complete the job by November 30. But the counsel appearing for the state informed the court that the linking job in other states had started in 2017 but because of lack of proper assistance from the Centre, in Bengal, the process took off in 2020. Civic polls The State Election Commission on Tuesday filed an affidavit in the high court, saying because of lack of enough EVMs, holding elections to 114 municipal bodies in a single phase was impossible. The state government filed a similar affidavit on Monday. The BJP had moved the court demanding holding of civic polls at one go. The commission also said in the affidavit that it would like to hold polls in Calcutta and Howrah on December 19. The hearing of the petition seeking election on one day has been fixed for Wednesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-88
24-11-2021||West Bengal||Mamata govt to set up task forces to examine reasons for loan denial||Rejection of a large number of applications under the Student Credit Card scheme by banks has prompted the Mamata Banerjee government to set up task forces in all districts to examine the reasons for the loan denial and take up the cases worth reconsideration with the lenders. According to sources, 4,618 loans were sanctioned under the scheme across Bengal till last week, but a total of 3,468 applications were rejected during the same period. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee launched the scheme after she had come to power for the third consecutive term in May. “The number of rejected applications has become a cause of concern for the state government as it hurts the basic aim of the scheme. The government has decided to look into the issue seriously so that the basic essence of the scheme remains intact,” said a senior government official. Under the scheme, any student studying from Class X to the highest level or the PhD is eligible to apply for soft loan up to Rs 10 lakh. The guarantor of the loan is the state government. “But when the scheme was implemented at the grassroots level, it was found out that banks were rejecting a large number of applications citing various reasons. This is a headache now,” said a source. It was evident that Nabanna was really worried over the higher number of applications getting rejected when it decided to set up task forces headed by an additional district magistrate in each district to look into each case. “It has been observed that at times, applications are either returned or rejected by the banks on the grounds, which may affect the very basic purpose of the Student Credit Card Scheme,” reads the order issued by the higher education department to set up the task forces. The task forces would re-examine the rejected applications and take up cases worth reconsideration with the banks. Sources said banks were dumping majority of the applications, saying parents’ credit score was poor, loans were being claimed for non-technical courses and more than 70 per cent of the course fee was being claimed as loan. Another official said the way applications for non-technical courses was being rejected, it was not sending a good message, particularly when the purpose of the scheme was to ensure loan for all students. A senior official said the top brass of the government was trying to convince major public sector banks to participate in the scheme. “Right now, the UBI and cooperative banks are sanctioning loans under the scheme. We hope major PSU banks like the SBI will join the scheme soon. Once these banks join the scheme, more students will get loans,” said an official. A section of government officials said the picture would not look that grim if 8,000-odd applications which were provisionally sanctioned by the banks cleared the final hurdle. “But the problem is that a large number of applicants are failing to clear the final hurdle as the credit score of parents is checked at the last stage,” a source said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-88
