25-11-2021||West Bengal||PIL in HC challenging Centre's power to decide on BSF ambit||A public interest litigation challenging the central government's power to decide the jurisdiction of Border Security Force (BSF) was moved before the Calcutta High Court on Thursday. The Centre recently amended the BSF Act to authorise the force to undertake search, seizure and arrest within a larger 50 km stretch, instead of 15 km, from the international border in Punjab, West Bengal and Assam. A division bench comprising Chief Justice Prakash Shrivastava and Justice R Bharadwaj directed the petitioner to serve notice to the BSF authority on the matter. The bench directed that the matter will come up for hearing on December 14. According to the petitioner's lawyer Sabyasachi Chatterjee, the PIL claimed that the power of the central government under Section 139, Clause I, of BSF Act on deciding jurisdiction of the force is against the federal structure of the country. Section 139 of the Act deals with powers and duties conferrable and imposable on members of the force. The governments of West Bengal and Punjab have objected to the Centre's decision to extend the jurisdiction of BSF.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-86
25-11-2021||West Bengal||Calcutta civic polls on December 19, no word on Howrah as yet||The state election commission on Thursday announced December 19 as the voting day for the Calcutta Municipal Corporation elections which were stalled last year following the Covid pandemic and Mamata Banerjee’s perceived fear of anti-incumbency. While announcing the decision, the state poll panel chief, Saurav Das, did not mention whether Howrah Municipal Corporation will also go to polls on the same day, as a new Bill passed by the state Assembly  reinstating the Bally municipality, carved out of Howrah, is embroiled in legal tangles. According to Das, elections to  144 wards in the Calcutta Municipal Corporation will be held with all Covid restrictions in place. Counting of votes, which is still tentative, will be held on December 21. The state poll panel will announce the decision later. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee, back from her trip to the national capital, is likely to announce candidates for the coming polls in a day or two. The Opposition camp is in  disarray with the BJP not finding enough candidates, while the Congress and the Left parties are unlikely to ink a deal. The CPM had decided on leaving around 30 seats for the Congress, while some Left partners like Forward Bloc are adamant on fielding candidates against Congress nominees as well. The model code of conduct comes into effect from Thursday onwards with the notification of polling. The state poll panel has set the time limit for campaigning till 7pm, after which no meetings or padyatras will be allowed. For door-to-door campaigns, the parties will be allowed a maximum of five persons. For the 144 wards, polling will be held in 4,742 booths and 385 additional booths in 1,707 polling premises. The contentious issue of holding polls under the cover of Central security forces is yet to be decided. Given the violence in Thursday's polling in urban local bodies of Tripura, and Bengal's own tradition of muscle-flexing and blood-spilling on polling days and post-elections, the Opposition parties, particularly the Congress and the Left, will raise the demand for Central forces. In 2015, when the last CMC polls were held, Trinamul had won 123 out of the 144 wards. Four years later, comparative analysis of booth-wise results of the Lok Sabha polls revealed BJP was leading in 50 of the Trinamul-run wards in the CMC including Mamata’s backyard ward 73. In a related development, in a hearing at the Calcutta High Court on a petition questioning why the state was not holding polls to all the civic bodies, the state government informed the bench that polling in 117 municipal bodies will be held by April 30. As the notification for the CMC election has been issued, the court  asked the petitioner to submit a fresh petition listing their demand on the next hearing on Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-86
25-11-2021||West Bengal||‘Studious’ girl stabbed to death, neighbour arrested||A Class X schoolgirl was allegedly stabbed to death by her neighbour at a village near Alipurduar town and the body of a Class VI schoolboy was recovered from the banks of river Torsa, also near the town, on Wednesday. The deaths of these two students has send shockwaves across Alipurduar district. The 14-year-old girl was preparing to leave for school when her neighbour Swapan Biswas, 22, allegedly entered her thatched house and stabbed her.   “Around 9.30 am, the girl, who had eaten her breakfast and changed into her school uniform, was preparing to leave for school when Swapan entered her house and struck her neck with a dagger from behind,” alleged a villager. The girl’s parents were out working in the fields but her younger sister was outside the house. “The younger sister saw the body in a pool of blood and screamed,” said a villager. “But the girl had died on the spot.” Angry villagers attacked Swapan’s house.  Police arrested Swapan and detained all his family members. Preliminary investigations suggest Swapan’s overtures had been rejected by the girl who was a good student. Her parents are day labourers who work on farmland. Her school’s headmaster Prabir Roy said he was speechless. “The girl was good in studies, polite and sincere. During Covid-19 pandemic she did not miss any online class.” Bholanath Pandey, Alipurduar SP, said the accused would be produced to court on Thursday. “We will seek a 15-day police remand for further investigations,” said Pandey. In a separate incident, police recovered the body of a 12-year-boy, a Class VI student, near river Torsa on Wednesday morning. He had gone to attend a village fair on Tuesday evening. “When he did not return home at night, worried parents had lodged a missing diary. Early morning, his body was recovered from behind a bush along Torsa river,” said a police source, adding that a probe was on.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-86
25-11-2021||West Bengal||Two teachers, one student of Darjeeling  school test positive||Two teachers and a student of Sonada Holy Cross Higher Secondary School here have tested positive for Covid-19 after offline classes across Bengal resumed on November 16. An official of the school said one teacher tested positive on Friday and another teacher developed Covid-19-like symptoms on Sunday and tested positive on Monday. On Tuesday the district administration held a medical check-up camp for persons who were in close proximity to the two teachers. “In that camp some students, too, were tested of which the report of one student came back positive,” said the school official. The school is situated 16km from Darjeeling town. The school officials maintained that they had informed district authorities about this development. “The authorities, however, suggested that we isolate the teachers and students and carry on with our offline classes as usual.” The school official, however, alleged that the administration had not undertaken any sanitisation on the school premises after these Covid-19 cases were reported, and that the school was using its own resources to handle the current situation. The incident has scared many guardians, which reflected in the drastic fall in attendance on Wednesday morning. Of the 135 students in Class XII only 25 turned up for offline classes on Wednesday. The attendance for Class X offline class was a mere 45 out of 186 students. “Until yesterday (Tuesday), we had on average 80 per cent attendance but today (Wednesday) the attendance was only 21.7 per cent,” said the official. S. Ponnambalam, the district magistrate of Darjeeling, said that the district authorities were aware of the Covid-19 situation in the school. However, he added that there was nothing to panic about at the moment. “After the two teachers tested positive, we immediately organised a Covid-testing camp for all the persons who had come in close proximity to the infected. At that camp, only one student tested positive. All the (three) patients have been isolated,” said Ponnambalam. The district magistrate also said that they have, however, instructed the school authorities not to force anyone to attend the offline classes in this situation. “If they (the students and teachers) voluntarily come, it is fine, but we have asked the school not to force anyone to attend the offline classes,” said Ponnambalam..||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-86
25-11-2021||West Bengal||Himalayan black bear kills youth, crowd kills the animal||An angry mob of tea garden residents in Jalpaiguri district killed a Himalayan black bear after it strayed into their garden and killed a teen on Wednesday. Around 3pm, the black bear was spotted at Meteli tea garden in Malbazar subdivision, some 60km from Jalpaiguri town. “Curious residents rushed to see the bear. Bidesh Khalko, 16, went a bit closer to the animal. It was then that the bear attacked him and dragged him behind the tea bushes. The teen died on the spot,” a source in Meteli police station said. Police said that after this, an angry mob went around searching for the bear. Forest guards from Mal wildlife squad, Gorumara National Park and Khunia beat of Jalpaiguri forest division rushed to the spot. “The forest guards managed to tranquilise the animal but before it could be rescued, locals beat the bear to death,” said a local. Bears straying into tea gardens of Dooars is rare. “We have not seen any bear straying inside the tea garden here. As a result, many out of curiosity went to see the animal,” said Ratan Minz, a resident of the tea garden.    Foresters suspected the animal might have entered from Neora Valley National Park in Kalimpong district, which is merely 12km from the spot. “The incident is rare. We are all familiar with the conflict of humans with elephants and leopards in these areas. This is the first time a black bear entered a tea garden and killed a youth,” Shyama Pandey, a representative of a Wildlife Lovers' Organisation, Malbazar, said. Foresters started an investigation to identify the people involved in killing the bear. “We have started an investigation and are trying to identify the people involved in killing the Himalayan Black Bear. We will take legal action against them,” Rajendra Jakhar, the chief conservator of forest (Wildlife-North) said. Police took the body of the youth for a post-mortem.. Foresters also took the bear’s carcass for a post-mortem.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-86
25-11-2021||West Bengal||Block official to quit job to become assistant teacher of  primary school||Asish Nayek, a joint block development officer in Malda district, has decided to quit his job to become an assistant teacher of a primary school. Sources said Nayek had joined his post in Bamongola block in November 2019. “An order has been issued based on a request by Nayek for his release on resignation so that he can join as assistant teacher in a primary school of the Bengal government,” said a source. Nayek’s decision has surprised many as his post is the second-most important administrative officer in the block. As a bureaucrat, he wields more power than a primary school teacher ever can. Nayek will also earn less as a teacher. The pay gap between the two jobs is anything in the legion of Rs 15,000. When asked why, Nayek said: “This is entirely my personal decision.” There were murmurs that Nayek took this decision because of political pressure. Sabina Yeasmin, minister of state of north Bengal development, irrigation and waterways department, however, said: “We have nothing to say on this but teaching is a noble profession.” “We believe he will be a dedicated and committed teacher and help his students to be responsible citizens and professionals in the interest of the nation.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-86
25-11-2021||West Bengal|| Civic body gets ready to hold Pous Mela in Santiniketan||The Bolpur Municipality on Monday wrote to Visva-Bharati vice-chancellor to let them hand over the Pous Mela ground on rent for six days to hold the historic fair this December as the varsity authorities did not show any interest in conducting the festival so far. The fourday annual Pous Mela traditionally begins around December 23 every year. “Santiniketan Trust is the official organiser of the Pous Mela and it takes the help of Visva-Bharati as the Trust has no such infrastructure and manpower. The trust also pays Rs 20,000 as rent for the fairground to Visva-Bharati to hold the fair. We are also ready to pay the amount and want to organise the fair by adhering to Covid protocol and norms of the National Green Tribunal,” said Parna Ghosh, the chair¬person of board of administrators of Bolpur Municipality. Ghosh said the civic body was keen to organise the fair as a large number of locals from artisans to hoteliers benefitted through Pous Mela. Pous Mela was started by Debendranath Tagore, father of Rabindranath Tagore, in 1894 in a bid to promote produce of rural Santiniketan including arts and crafts before the urban people. Last year, the fair was not organised following the Covid situation and the civic body officials said if the Kumbh fair or Gangasagar fair could be organised this time, then why Visva-Bharati was not showing interest in the Pous Mela. The civic body has also sent a letter to Santiniketan Trust to convey its interest to organise the fair. “We welcome the move that the Bolpur Municipality has taken to organise the Pous Mela. It is true that the VisvaBharati as an university can’t organise the fair and it would be better if a civic body comes forward to organise it. However, we have to discuss the matter with other members of the Trust,” said Sabujkali Sen, a member of Santiniketan Trust and former acting vicechancellor of VisvaBharati. VisvaBharati’s acting public relations officer Atig Ghosh, however, refused to comment when asked about the letter. A senior varsity official said the university had no time to think about the fair as a NAAC team would be visiting the varsity on Tuesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-86
25-11-2021||West Bengal||Bengal reports 803 new infections, 811 recoveries & 12 deaths||Bengal on Wednesday reported 803 new Covid-19 infections, 811 recoveries and 12 deaths, resulting in a drop by 20 in its tally of active cases to 7,894 now. A minister said the new infections reported on Wednesday indicated infections between November 15 and 19. Calcutta reported 247 new infections and four deaths on Wednesday. North 24-Parganas reported 145 new infections and two deaths. Over the past two months (60 days) since Bengal broke its 97-day streak of fall in active cases, there has been a net rise of 220 in the state’s total of active cases or Covid patients under treatment, from 7,674. Calcutta and North 24-Parganas were the only two of the state’s 23 districts with a three-digit figure of new cases found in a 24-hour window on Wednesday. Eight districts reported a single-digit figure. Calcutta, North and South 24-Parganas, Howrah, Hooghly and Nadia accounted for 602 or 74.97 per cent of the new infections detected on Wednesday. Sixteen districts reported zero deaths. Bengal’s daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 2.06 per cent on Wednesday. The state’s recovery rate is 98.31 per cent, a shade below the national rate of 98.33. The state’s mortality rate is 1.2 per cent, while that of the nation is 1.34 per cent. Bengal now has close to 16.12 lakh Covid-19 cases, ever since the first was logged in March last year. The total includes over 15.84 lakh recoveries and 19,419 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-86
25-11-2021||West Bengal||Poll capture charge on Tripura BJP,  TMC, CPI(M) fear violence ||Tripura’s urban body polls on Thursday will not only be held amid “unprecedented” security concerns aired by the Opposition but also under the scanner of the Supreme Court that has directed police to ensure that the process that ends with the counting on November 28 goes off peacefully. Both the CPM and the Trinamul Congress on Wednesday expressed apprehensions about security despite Tuesday’s Supreme Court direction to the police to “act in a non-partisan manner” and crack down on those violating the law. The court order came on a contempt plea by Trinamul against the state’s BJP government for allegedly violating the November 11 order to ensure peaceful campaigning and security of candidates. Tripura Trinamul convener Subal Bhowmik said the ruling BJP was bringing people from Bishalgarh, Majlishpur, Mohanpur and other places to “capture” the Agartala Municipal Corporation, one among the 13 civic bodies that will go to the polls. “We are grateful to the apex court for the verdict but unfortunately it seems that the state police, administration and government are not taking the Supreme Court’s decision seriously,” Bhowmik told The Telegraph. “I have contested Assembly elections six times but I have never entered any candidate’s house randomly and interrogated them, which the BJP has been doing here. The houses of three of our candidates were vandalised and several polling agents threatened on Tuesday night. There are unprecedented security concerns. It is also the first time that the Supreme Court has had to monitor the polls,” he added. CPM state secretary Jitendra Chaudhury said the BJP, police, and the state election commission were out to “rig” the polls by bringing in people from villages. “Despite Supreme Court and high court directions, there has been no change. Rowdies are doing everything in front of the police. Last night they canvassed house-to-house after campaigning ended and even threatened BJP supporters to stay at home. “They are not believing their own people. Understand the gravity of the situation. It is State-sponsored rigging. If the polls are free and fair, the BJP will not win even 10 seats because there is strong anti-incumbency,” Chaudhury told this newspaper. BJP spokesperson Nabendu Bhattacharya said: “Allegations will be levelled by the Opposition on the eve  of elections and also on the day of polling. There has been no untoward incident till now…. Why should we get people from outside? What is the need? We are winning all 51 seats in the AMC and other urban bodies where polls will be held on Thursday.” Following the Supreme Court order on Tuesday warning of coercive action, the Tripura State Election Commission reviewed the law-and-order situation to ensure peaceful polling. Tripura police subsequently issued a statement announcing the deployment of “adequate” security personnel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-87
25-11-2021||West Bengal||Civic poll date runs into fresh delays as court postpones hearing ||A division bench headed by Calcutta High Court Chief Justice Prakash Srivastava on Wednesday postponed the hearing of the case related to Bengal civic polls till Monday, while governor Jagdeep Dhankar returned to the state an amendment bill related to the Howrah civic body without signing, seeking more details. Two separate petitions seeking polls to all 114 civic bodies on a single day had been moved before the court. During Wednesday’s hearing, petitioners said they were apprehensive that the State Election Commission will declare the poll schedule for Calcutta and Howrah Municipal Corporations before the present case was disposed of. At this point, the counsel of the state poll panel refuted such doubts and said both the court and the commission were constitutional bodies. “One constitutional body wouldn’t do anything to tarnish the dignity of another,” the commission’s lawyer said. However, neither did the court pass any order in this regard nor did the poll panel give any black-and-white undertaking. In another development, governor Dhankhar returned the Howrah Municipal Corporation (Amendment) Bill 2021, which intends to exclude 16 wards of the Bally municipality from the Howrah Municipal Corporation, to the state government. He sought further details on the issue before signing the bill, sources said. The bill has been passed in the state legislative Assembly. In order to hold polls to these two civic bodies on December 19, the state poll panel will have to issue a notification by Thursday. Without the governor’s signature on the bill, the bifurcation of Bally cannot be executed. “There are two possibilities. Either we issue the notification to the CMC polls on Wednesday and wait for the governor to sign the amendment. Otherwise, we can issue the notification for both polls. In that case there might be legal ramifications,” a source in the poll panel said. The officers of the poll panel met on Wednesday evening to discuss the possible ways forward. While Trinamul expressed discontent with the delay in issuing poll notification, rival BJP has welcomed the governor’s decision. “I don’t know why the polls are being delayed. The Covid graph is down in Bengal now and this is a good time to hold the polls. Anyone can move court on anything, but the BJP does so when it loses people’s support,” said state transport minister Firhad Hakim. Bengal BJP spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya said: “We have always wanted polls to all civic bodies be held together… What we’ve asking for is the fair thing, the governor is seeking the same....”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-87
25-11-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Delhi asks Bengal to ramp up daily swab tests||The Union health ministry has asked Bengal and some other states to ensure high Covid-19 testing counts, cautioning each against significant decline in average daily tests and worrying increases in positivity rates. The health secretary, Rajesh Bhushan, while flagging state-specific decline in the daily testing rates, said it would be “very difficult to determine the true level of infection spread in a geography” in the absence of sustained levels of sufficient testing. Bengal, for instance, reported 38,600 average daily tests during the week ending November 22, compared with 67,644 average daily tests during the week ending June 6 this year, Bhushan wrote in a note to Narayan Swaroop Nigam, principal secretary in Bengal’s health department. “It is also worrying to note that the state has recorded a high (test) positivity of 2.1 per cent in the week ending November 22, having stagnated over the past four weeks,” Bhushan said. The positivity rate, the proportion of positives among those tested, is a measure of the size of the epidemic and needs to be as low as possible, and below 5 per cent. Bhushan said several districts were reporting unacceptably high positivity rates combined with an increasing trend over the past four weeks. From November 15 to 21, positivity rates in Darjeeling, South Dinajpur, Howrah, North 24-Paraganas, South 24-Paraganas, Jalpaiguri and Calcutta had been greater than 2 per cent. He has also expressed concern that the proportion of RT-PCR diagnostic tests — more reliable than the alternative antigen-based tests — accounted for less than 30 per cent of total tests in Alipurdar, Cooch Behar, Hooghly and West Medinipur. “It is important that the state maintains high testing given the recent increase in travelling due to various events such as festive celebrations, marriages, and vacations,” Bhushan wrote. “A decrease in testing would undermine the infection spread within the community.” The ministry also sent similar letters to Goa, Jammu and Kashmir, Kerala, Ladakh, Maharashtra, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland, Punjab, Rajasthan, and Sikkim. Bhushan’s letter to Kerala says the state conducted on average around 56,000 tests over the past week in contrast to over 296,000 daily tests during the week ending August 15. He has also pointed out that test positivity rates in Wayanad, Kozhikode, Thiruvananthpuram, Kottayam, Idukki, Kollam and Kannur remained above 10 per cent combined with a decrease in testing over the past week. In Goa, average daily tests during the week ending November 22 were 2,329, compared with 6,703 during the week ending May 9. Maharashtra reported 97,502 average daily tests last week compared with over 268,000 during the week ending May 23. Health authorities have on average detected around 10,000 daily new cases over the past week from over 400,000 daily new cases in early May. Sections of public health experts said a third nationwide wave was unlikely given India’s large proportion of population either already infected or vaccinated, but local outbreaks may continue to emerge whenever the virus got a chance to infect susceptible pools of people.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-87
25-11-2021||West Bengal||Plea for land to set up research hub||The ICMR-National Institution of Cholera and Enteric Diseases has approached the North Bengal Medical College and Hospital in Siliguri to set up a second campus. The Calcutta-based NICED conducts research and develops prevention and treatment and control strategies related to enteric diseases and HIV/AIDS. Sources said the institution had approached NBMCH a decade back in 2011 seeking land on the Siliguri campus. “The NICED  had then sought 15 katha land for setting up its second campus here, but the land mutation was pending. Also, there was no boundary wall for the NBMCH campus then,” said a source. Gautam Deb, the chairman of the patient welfare committee at the NBMCH and also the board of administrators at the Siliguri Municipal Corporation, said the NICED was looking for a covered built-up area on the campus. The new proposal was placed before the NBMCH about a month ago. “The NBMCH authorities have identified an area of approximately 1,600sqft and approached the health department for permission,” said Deb. The sources said a meeting of NBMCH principal Indrajit Saha, superintendent Sanjay Mallik, dean of student affairs Sandip Sengupta and associate professor of pathology Kalyan Khan had been held recently to discuss the development. The state government has sanctioned Rs 15 lakh for infrastructure development of a laboratory to test respiratory syncytial virus, adenovirus, enterovirus, H1N1, influenza A, B, parainfluenza 1, 2, 3 and 4 and others, said sources.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-87
25-11-2021||West Bengal||Survey to restore Nayachar island economy, official inspects site ||Additional chief secretary (fisheries) Atri Bhattacharya, accompanied by a survey team, visited East Midnapore’s Nayachar island on Wednesday with the aim of restructuring the local economy and reclaiming several purportedly illegal fisheries that have mushroomed in the area. The 18km-long and 4km -wide island was in the news during the 2007 Nandigram land agitations after then Left Front’s government’s plan to build a chemicals hub at Nayachar had run into resistance from the then Opposition, led by Trinamul supremo Mamata Banerjee. “There was a plan to build a chemical plant at Nayachar during the CPM reign in 2006, but it got thwarted for obvious reasons the next year and was largely forgotten by the government,” said a source with the survey team, which included East Midnapore district magistrate Purnendu Majhi. “What happened in the following years was a takeover of sorts by a de facto mafia that set up illegal fisheries all around with the help of excavator machines,” the source added. On Wednesday, the members of the survey team made several informal announcements while gauging the area’s suitability for projects relating to eco-tourism, solar power and commercial fishing. “All of these (ventures)  will materialise pending approval from (state secretariat) Nabanna,” explained a source, adding that Wednesday’s survey had ostensibly been prompted by a recent communication from Ramnagar MLA and fisheries minister Akhil Giri to chief minister Mamata Banerjee, proposing a fishing hub in Nayachar. “We have come here to see what else can be done, including fishing hubs, eco-tourism, solar energy. We will go back and report to the chief secretary,” said additional chief secretary (fisheries) Bhattacharya  on Wednesday. Members of his team said that out of “several thousand” fisheries in the area, only 13 appeared to be licensed cooperatives given out to fishermen from Haldia, Nandakumar, Sutahata and Nandigram..  Bhattacharya also interacted with a handful of residents of Nayachar. “There is no health centre. Health workers are not sent here even once a month. The administration has not provided us drinking water. A large part of the island is being encroached upon because of the indifference of the district administration,” one resident was heard telling Bhattacharya. Contacted, MLA Giri said he had been apprised of Wednesday’s survey.  He also confirmed his communication with the chief minister over a fishing hub in Nayachar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-87
25-11-2021||West Bengal||Mamata’s stand on BSF jurisdiction right, says Biman Bose||Left Front chairman and veteran CPM leader Biman Bose on Wednesday said his party and the Left Front support chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s stand against the increase of the BSF’s ambit in Bengal. Bose spoke on the issue at Dhanyasara village of Bolpur on Wednesday evening where he came to meet the family members of Manasa Hansda, the party’s district committee secretary who died recently. “There will be a crisis in people’s livelihoods in bordering areas if the BSF’s jurisdiction is increased from 15km to 50km (inside Indian territory). Mamata is right in this matter. We supported her...,” said Bose. “At present, those living within the (existing) 15km jurisdiction of the BSF face several troubles. They need to take permission to cultivate their own land. If the jurisdiction goes up to 50km, the district headquarters of Nadia, Krishnagar, will come under its control. This can’t be accepted,” he added. Mamata met Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday and demanded the decision to increase the BSF’s jurisdiction be withdrawn. “There are many places on the border where there is no barbed fencing. What will happen by increasing the area of jurisdiction of BSF?” said Bose. But the CPM veteran lashed out at the Trinamul chief for another reason. “The more Mamata attempts to pulverise  the Left, she ends up helping Modi. On this issue, she gets the full support of Modi,” said Bose.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-87
25-11-2021||West Bengal||Rural bank robbery ‘fake’, 3 insiders arrested in Dinhata||Dinhata police on Wednesday arrested three employees of Uttarbanga Kshetriya Gramin Bank for allegedly staging Tuesday morning’s Rs 19 lakh “fake heist”. On Tuesday, the cashier of the bank Atarul Hussain, bank manager Arijit Bhowmik and another employee, Chandra Shekar Barman, had claimed that three persons had entered the premises around 10.55am and robbed the bank of Rs 19 lakh after locking Hussian and Bhowmik inside the bank locker. The duo said that they were in the process of transferring cash from the locker to the cashier room when the incident took place. A police source said probe revealed that the entire act had been staged. “Ataur Hussain, the cashier, had removed that amount gradually from the bank over a period spanning several months. The manager and other staff were aware of the details and supported the crime,” said the source. The UKGB's Nigamnagar branch in Dinhata subdivison is located some 30km from Cooch Behar town.  “The arrested bank employees are Atarul Hussain, the cashier of the branch, Arijit Bhowmik, the branch manager and Chandra Shekar Barman, a staffer of the branch,” Sumit Kumar, the superintendent of police of Cooch Behar district, said. Police sources said that investigators had sensed something amiss as an alarm had not been raised by the three staff after the so-called heist.  Even the local residents had come to know about the incident only after police reached the spot, leading the police to suspect foul play inside the bank.  “During interrogation, the trio broke down and admitted that the crime was staged,” said a police source. Even though preliminary investigation suggests that the cashier had misappropriated the amount, police are looking for motives that prompted the manager and the staffer to be complicit. “The duo was fully aware of the cashier’s deeds and yet they supported him and chose to remain silent for a long time,” said a source. The trio were produced before the additional chief judicial magistrate’s court in Dinhata on Wednesday. The court sent the three accused to  police remand for six days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-87
25-11-2021||West Bengal||ECL employee shot dead from point blank range in Jamuria||Two unidentified goons allegedly shot dead an Eastern Coalfields Ltd (ECL) employee from point blank range on Tuesday night in West Burdwan’s Jamuria. The victim, 55-year-old Madan Bauri, was posted at the ECL’s Chapui colliery in Raniganj. Police said Bauri was sitting outside a closed meat shop around 11pm near Chanda More crossing on NH2 when two motorcycle-borne assailants arrived and the one riding pillion pumped three bullets into his forehead. “As he slumped to the ground, the goons left. We saw a person get shot and the incident has scared us,” said a person who had been standing close to Bauri when the incident took place. Police rushed to the spot after being informed by bystanders and started investigations. Bauri was rushed to Asansol district hospital where doctors declared him dead on arrival. The three bullets from his head were removed by doctors during post-mortem. After preliminary investigations, police picked up two employees of the meat shop for questioning. Police said Bauri, who lived in Chapui, used to visit the shop regularly and spent time talking with its owner and employees till late at night. “The assailants knew Bauri would be at the shop and had planned to murder him at a time the locality was almost deserted,” said a police officer. The meat shop owner is currently at his native place in Patna, Bihar. “However, we have asked him to return immediately for interrogation,” said a police officer. Police said apart from his job in the ECL, Bauri was also a known moneylender in the locality. “He was involved in money lending and we have come to know that because of this business he had developed enmity with some persons who were not returning his money. We are probing that angle too,” said an investigating officer. Sources said his family members told the police that Bauri had been receiving threat calls. “We are probing all angles. We have detained two persons so far for interrogations,” said Tathagata Pandey, assistant commissioner of police (central 1).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-87
25-11-2021||West Bengal||Needle-free ZyCov-D likely to be used in Covid battle||After Covaxin, Covishield and Sputnik V, a fourth vaccine, DNA-based vaccine ZyCov-D is likely to be in use from next month in Bengal. The Union health ministry assured the state on Wednesday that it would send 16.5 lakh doses of the new vaccine once training of the vaccinators is complete. ZyCov-D, from Zydus Cadila, is the first DNA plasmid vaccine against Covid-19 to be administered intradermally. A needle-free PharmaJet applicator is used to administer ZyCov-D. This vaccine can also be administered to those aged between 12 and 18 years. The vaccine was approved by the Union health ministry in October, after it received emergency-use authorisation from the Drugs Controller General of India in August, sources said. In a meeting on Wednesday evening, the state health department said they would not start vaccinating minors right away. They further said that the new vaccines would be launched in Murshidabad, Malda and North Dinajpur, three districts of Bengal with relatively fewer first-dose recipients. “The vaccine is very new and the way to administer it is also different. We have decided to launch it in three districts first, to see the response. Later, we will introduce it elsewhere. The vaccine can also be administered on children, but we are first going to observe its impact on adults,” said a senior health department official based in Calcutta. Unlike the other three vaccines, which were administered in two doses, ZyCov-D has to be administered in three doses. The gap has to be 28 days between each dose. Officials said that  the Centre has asked the state to introduce the vaccine in urban areas first. “In the first phase, we are to receive 16.5 lakh doses of ZyCov-D, and the supply can be used among 5.2 lakh people. We chose the three districts, where the rate of vaccination for first doses is relatively poor, as we can find more people there. As the vaccination process is needle-free, people might welcome it,” said another health official. “We expect the training for these three districts to be complete within December first week, and we would start the vaccination as soon as possible, thereafter,” he added. However, a section of health officials said that in many places, there have been difficulties in administering the second dose of the existing vaccines, and a drive to reach the doorsteps to vaccinate people has been directed to complete the process. “In the case of ZyCov-D, which would need three doses, this could bring an additional layer of challenge for us,” said a health official. He said there were around 12 lakh people across the state, whose second dose is pending at the moment. The Bengal government, as of Wednesday evening, has vaccinated over 6.22 crore people with the first dose. Nearly 2.73 crore people in the state are fully vaccinated so far. In terms of the number of people vaccinated, Bengal stands third among the states in the country, after Uttar Pradesh and Maharashtra. Several health officials said another challenge that can come with this new vaccine is the different process of administering it. “There would be a PharmaJet machine to administer the vaccine, and the ground-level workers need to be trained well to handle the new procedure. The three districts would be asked to open separate centers to administer this DNA-based vaccine,” said an official. An official said that the central government had sent them the fresh guidelines for this new vaccine. However, at this moment, it is difficult to determine whether and how ZyCov-D is different from the vaccines already in use here,” the official added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-87
