26-11-2021||West Bengal||Calcutta civis polls: Firhad Hakim in, Babul Surpiyo out as Trinamul names candidates||Mamata Banerjee’s writ prevailed over the party as the Trinamul rolled out its list of candidates for the December 19 Calcutta Municipal Corporation polls on Friday, retaining former mayor Firhad Hakim. Surprisingly, the list, released hours after the left Front came out with its list of candidates,  does not mention the name of former BJP Lok Sabha MP Babul Supriyo, who was favoured by the party’s all India general secretary Abhishek Banerjee for the mayor’s chair by replacing Hakim, a known Mamata acolyte. “Mamata Banerjee has cleared the list after consultation with other leaders who had arrived at a consensus,” said Partha Chatterjee, the Trinamul’s secretary-general. If Hakim is to retain the mayor’s post in the coprporation that has 144 wards, it is to be seen whether Mamata’s declared policy of “one man, one post” will hold. For, Hakim is also the state transport minister. The Trinamul has brought 39 new faces while retaining 87 councillors from the previous term, fielding candidates in 126 seats, with 45 per cent women among the candidates. Eighteen seats have been left to accommodate “others”. Trinamul has also fielded South Calcutta MP Mala Roy and five other MLAs as councillors. “Whether they will continue with their dual role will be decided by Didi,” said a Trinamul source. There is also no word from the ruling dispensation on the future of Supriyo, the only sitting BJP MP to have switched sides. The Left Front, which also announced its list of candidates, has left 17 seats for other parties including the Congress and Indian Secular Front, it's alliance partners of this summer’s Assembly elections that saw a complete rout of both the Congress and the Left since the first general elections. The Calcutta corporation has 144 wards. Among the wards where the Left Front has decided against fielding candidates include wards 45, which has been represented in the Calcutta Municipal Corporation by the Congress councillor Santosh Pathak for three straight terms. However, in ward 28 where another Congress councillor, Prakash Upadhyay, was elected in 2015, the LF junior partner, Forward Bloc has fielded a candidate. “The most dangerous political entity is the BJP for us. In the last 10 years under Trinamul, we have seen the kind of activities that are being carried out. In the coming election we have selected the seats based on the traditional voting pattern, our organisational capacity and winnability,” said Kallol Majumdar, CPM state secretariat member and Calcutta district unit secretary. Majumdar said in some of the wards the names could not be finalised yet and talks were on with the other Left Front constituents to reach a consensus. “In some of the seats we believe we can put up a good fight,” said Majumdar. The seat sharing arrangement has exposed the fissures in the tenuous alliance which failed to make any impact in the Assembly polls, with most candidates from both the Left and the Congress ending up  losing their deposits. “In ward 29, the Congress is trailing. We do not want to split the anti-BJP, anti-TMC vote. But Forward Bloc was insisting on fielding a nominee since it had a councillor from the ward in the past. Our priority was to strengthen Left unity, so we agreed,” said a CPM Calcutta district committee member. The Congress in private has expressed desire to contest in at least a 100 seats, which would mean a four-corner contest in most of the wards. Though in all likelihood Trinamul will sweep the civic polls as well. Elections to the 144 wards in the Calcutta Municipal Corporation usually precede the Assembly elections but were deferred last year to take into account both the raging pandemic and anti-incumbency. The December 19 polls were announced just a day ago, more than six months after Trinamul swept the Assembly polls and emerged victorious in all the by-elections held since. In the December polls in the state capital, Trinamul is starting with an edge in 133 of the seats, while the BJP is ahead in 9 wards and the sole saviour of the Congress is Pathak, while the Left is tallying far behind in all the 144 wards. In 2015, Trinamul had emerged victorious in 123 wards, but four years later when the Lok Sabha polls were held, the BJP had managed to reduce its lead to just 73 wards.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-84
26-11-2021||West Bengal||Calcutta civic polls: Left Front leaves 17 seats for allies||The Left Front on Friday released its list of candidates for the Calcutta Municipal Corporation elections, leaving 17 seats for other parties including the Congress and Indian Secular Front, it's alliance partners of this summer’s Assembly elections that saw a complete rout of both the Congress and the Left since the first general elections. The Calcutta corporation has 144 wards. Among the wards where the Left Front has decided against fielding candidates include wards 45, which has been represented in the Calcutta Municipal Corporation by the Congress councillor Santosh Pathak for three straight terms. However, in ward 28 where another Congress councillor, Prakash Upadhyay, was elected in 2015, the LF junior partner, Forward Bloc has fielded a candidate. “The most dangerous political entity is the BJP for us. In the last 10 years under Trinamul, we have seen the kind of activities that are being carried out. In the coming election we have selected the seats based on the traditional voting pattern, our organisational capacity and winnability,” said Kallol Majumdar, CPM state secretariat member and Calcutta district unit secretary. Majumdar said in some of the wards the names could not be finalised yet and talks were on with the other Left Front constituents to reach a consensus. “In some of the seats we believe we can put up a good fight,” said Majumdar. The seat sharing arrangement has exposed the fissures in the tenuous alliance which failed to make any impact in the Assembly polls, with most candidates from both the Left and the Congress ending up  losing their deposits. “In ward 29, the Congress is trailing. We do not want to split the anti-BJP, anti-TMC vote. But Forward Bloc was insisting on fielding a nominee since it had a councillor from the ward in the past. Our priority was to strengthen Left unity, so we agreed,” said a CPM Calcutta district committee member. The Congress in private has expressed desire to contest in at least a 100 seats, which would mean a four-corner contest in most of the wards. Though in all likelihood Trinamul will sweep the civic polls as well. Elections to the 144 wards in the Calcutta Municipal Corporation usually precede the Assembly elections but were deferred last year to take into account both the raging pandemic and anti-incumbency. The December 19 polls were announced just a day ago, more than six months after Trinamul swept the Assembly polls and emerged victorious in all the by-elections held since. In the December polls in the state capital, Trinamul is starting with an edge in 133 of the seats, while the BJP is ahead in 9 wards and the sole saviour of the Congress is Pathak, while the Left is tallying far behind in all the 144 wards. In 2015, Trinamul had emerged victorious in 123 wards, but four years later when the Lok Sabha polls were held, the BJP had managed to reduce its lead to just 73 wards. The ruling Trinamul is also busy giving  final shape to its list of candidates, which could be declared any time soon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-85
26-11-2021||West Bengal||Hearing on hill tea pay default, 46 tea gardens authorities summoned ||Justice (retd) Abhay Manohar Sapre, the chairman of the one-man committee formed by the Supreme Court, has summoned all gardens of the Darjeeling Tea industry for hearing next month on alleged default on payment statutory benefits to workers. There are 84 operational gardens in the Darjeeling Tea industry. Sources said management representatives of 38 estates in the Kurseong subdivision and Kalimpong district were asked to appear for a hearing at Kurseong Town Hall on December 8. “Forty-six tea gardens in the Darjeeling subdivision have been summoned to appear at Gorkha Rangamanch Bhavan (Bhanu Bhavan) in Darjeeling on December 10,” a source said. The committee also asked regional provident fund commissioner, deputy chairman of the Tea Board of India, joint secretary, plantation division in the ministry of commerce and industry, advisor to the state labour minister, senior law officer and state labour department to be specifically present at the hearing. Sapna Majhi Sotang, a petitioner in the Supreme, and Bandana Rai, president of non-government organisation NAAYA, were also summoned to the hearing. Sources said a social activist had filed a case against non-fulfilment of statutory benefits to workers by some tea garden owners in the Dooars in 2006. “When the lockdown started in 2020, NAAYA coordinator Sapna Majhi Sotang also filed a writ petition against the non-fulfilment of statutory obligations by Darjeeling hill gardens,” said a source. The writ petition filed by Sotang was tagged with the 2006 plea, which is basically against 29 tea gardens in the Dooars. However, the hearing in Darjeeling and Kurseong is only for issues concerning the 84 tea gardens in the hills. The allegations ranged from irregular deposits of provident funds to lack of medical facilities and drinking water supply, and from poor wages to even non-payment of bonus in the industry. Accordingly, the Supreme Court appointed the one-member panel to look into the charges. The sources said the-committee had earlier asked the Darjeeling gardens to submit their response to the charges made by the workers but only a few owners had filed replies. The commissioner of provident fund was also directed to file a statement of dues in respect of the workers, along with all interest liabilities. Sandeep Mukherjee, principal advisor, Darjeeling Tea Association, said: “Since the matter is sub judice, we cannot comment on this issue.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-85
26-11-2021||West Bengal||Adivasis not to part with land for Deocha-Pachami coal mine site||A group of villagers of Harinsinga, which is part of Birbhum’s proposed Deocha-Pachami coal mine site, on Thursday organised a meeting among its tribal residents and announced that they would not give their land as they were against having the project in the area. This is the first time since the announcement of the state government’s compensation package that a section of the tribal populace within the project area has come out openly against the proposed coal mine. Thursday’s meeting was led by the head of tribals in Harinsinga village. The government wants to start mining adjacent to two tribal hamlets — Harinsingha and Dewanganj. “As head of the village (tribal hamlet), I called the meeting to understand the mind of local people about the proposed coalmine. At the meeting, all participants unanimously decided that we don’t want any coal mine in the area. We want to live here as we are living now. No one even agreed to discuss the package,” said Joseph Marandi, the village head of Harinsingha. Asked about the reason for their opposition to the project and the refusal to consider the rehabilitation package, Marandi said: “Here we live in a free environment. We have houses, open ground and forests that we don’t want to leave.” In tribal communities the village head plays an important role in any type of decision making. Despite the response of Harinsinga villagers, Birbhum district magistrate Bidhan Ray said the government would listen to them and would try to address their concerns regarding the project and government's package. “We have heard that villagers had sat with the package to discuss it among themselves. There may be a few who have some objections but we will hold discussions with them. We are very hopeful that people will help us to set up the coal mine here," said Ray. The Deocha-Pachami coal mine is the largest coal block in the state and has a stock of around 2.2 billion tonnes of coal underneath the stone layer. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on November 9 announced the rehabilitation package for those who will be affected by the mega project. It offered details of the government’s land rates and government job of junior constable to a member of each affected family, among others. On November 19, senior district officials headed by Ray had handed over copies of the rehabilitation package among the tribal village heads in three languages, including one in Ol-chiki script. The development on Thursday in the proposed coal mine zone has raised eyebrows of many officials who suspect that some groups were inciting the refusal to derail the project. “We suspect there are some people or owners of illegal mines who have a hand in instigating villagers to take such a decision. As per our information, a large number of villagers did not attend the meeting. We are also trying to identify whether anyone from the area is involved in instigating the tribal people,” said an official. Rabin Soren, a leader of Birbhum Adivasi Gaonta—a tribal outfit in the area, however, said the villagers sat among them personally and it was their spontaneous reaction. “It is a spontaneous decision of the villagers. There is much confusion among the villagers with the package. We expect things to iron out through discussions,” said Soren. The state government’s land department had started to hold camps in gram panchayat areas of Deocha- Pachami to rectify the land records of the villagers. A camp in Hinglow gram panchayat office was held on Thursday where 50 villagers submitted their land related papers. “The camp office will help correct land related issues like mutation,” said a senior officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-85
26-11-2021||West Bengal||Elephant herd enters Jalpaiguri locality, administration on alert||A herd of 10 wild elephants entered a locality near Lataguri prompting the local administration to promulgate section 144, that restricts gathering of humans. Sources said the herd entered the Lataguri market area around 7 am in the morning. “The herd moved around Lataguri market and it is accompanied by two calves,” said a source. The pachyderm’s visit spread like wildfire which brought out a crowd. “The administration had to promulgate section 144 , restricting gathering of people, in the area,” said a source. Foresters are of the opinion that the herd entered the market from nearby forests. Honorary wildlife warden, Seema Chowdhury said: “Recently, two elephants had entered Jalpaiguri town and due to the cooperation of the people of the town , the animals could return to the forest unharmed. We hope for the same cooperation here.” Janmenjay Pal, additional forest officer, Gorumara Wildlife department said that the foresters were waiting for sunset to drive the herd back to the Lataguri forest.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-85
26-11-2021||West Bengal|| Crocodile spotted on the bank of a pond in Sunderbans, rescue bid on||A crocodile was spotted on the bank of a pond at the remote village of Patharpratima in the Sunderbans on Thursday morning. The residents of Mandalgheri area of Achintya Nagar gram panchayat immediately informed the Ramganga forest range about the crocodile. The foresters said the crocodile had come from a nearby river and they had set up a team to rescue the animal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-85
26-11-2021||West Bengal|| State govt teams up with IFA to host soccer tourney for tea hands||The West Bengal labour department in association with the Indian Football Association (IFA) has decided to organise a Tea Gold Club, an exclusive football tournament where only tea garden workers can participate. Becharam Manna, state labour minister, said: “There are number of talented footballers in tea gardens but they don’t get an opportunity to prove themselves and this is why we have decided to organise a Tea Gold Cup .” Manna’s party, Trinamul, Congress, has not been able to make major inroads into the tea garden belt of north Bengal. The tournament will be held in February and March. According to labour department sources, the tea belt in north Bengal will be divided into four zones, Siliguri, Darjeeling, Jalpaiguri and Alipurduar for the tournament. A source said a meeting was recently held in Calcutta among labour department, tea associations and the IFA to discuss the tournament. . “It has been decided that IFA coaches and talent spotters would be actively involved in the tournament,” said the source. Football players from different gardens will have to register themselves in respective zones following which IFA coaches and selectors will form four teams in each zone. After the zonal games, the semi final and final is likely to be held in Lebong, Darjeeling. “The winning team will be given Rs 1 lakh while the runners up will receive Rs 75,000,” said a source. The total budget of the tournament is pegged at Rs 25 lakhs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-85
26-11-2021||West Bengal||Ajoy Edwards launches new party, promises to be different without  tilt||Ajoy Edwards, owner of Darjeeling’s famous restaurant Glenary’s and a well-known philanthropist, has named his political outfit as Hamro Party (Our Party) with a promise to remain independent of parties in power in the state and at the Centre. Most hill parties are aligned with either the BJP or the Trinamul Congress and Edwards’s announcement on Thursday is being seen as an attempt to provide a new option in hill politics. “The name of the party has been selected by the people, the silent majority. The situation in the hills seems such that the majority of the people did not want to vote on Facebook and Instagram for fear of being identified even in this simple exercise,” Edwards said at an event held in Mirik. Edwards and his team had released four names, Jan Shakti, Janta Kalyan Party, Jan Awaaz and Hamro Party, from a list of 122 names that people suggested for the new party. Voting could be done through WhatsApp, SMS, Facebook, Twitter, Instagram and email, but Edwards said most preferred to vote through WhatsApp, to avoid identification. “The Hamro Party celebrates our oneness while accepting the plurality of the place. This is everyone’s party, your party, mine party,” said Edwards. Members of the new party, however, stressed that they would not be on crutches of the BJP or Trinamul. “We will remain independent but if we are voted to govern, we will maintain ties with all powers for the betterment of the place. In the past, we had seen how people had to suffer because of lack of diplomacy by our hill leaders,” said Edwards, 48. The Hamro Party also unveiled its flag on Thursday. The party will, however, be launched from Peshok tea garden, where it would be holding a medical camp. Gurung meets Partha Gorkha Janmukti Morcha president Bimal Gurung and other leaders of the party met Trinamul minister Partha Chatterjee in Calcutta. “The delegation submitted that since the proposed political solution and election to GTA are co-related, elections to GTA should not be held immediately as it might create confusion among the general public. However, elections to panchayat and municipality should be held,” said a Morcha leader.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-85
26-11-2021||West Bengal||Bengal's Covid report card: 758 cases, 774 recoveries, 11 deaths||Bengal on Thursday reported 758 Covid-19 infections, 774 recoveries and 11 deaths, resulting in a drop by 27 in its total of active cases to 7,867. Over the past 61 days — since Bengal snapped out of a 97-day streak of constant fall in the total of active cases ahead of the Puja season on September 26 — the state recorded a rise in its total of active cases for 33 days and a fall for 27 days. In these 61 days, there has been a net rise of 193 in the state’s total of active cases, from 7,674. A minister said the number of new infections reported on Thursday was indicative of people who got infected in the November 16 (three days after Jagaddhatri Puja) to 20 (a week after Jagaddhatri Puja) window. Calcutta reported 215 new infections and North 24-Parganas reported 141, the only two of the state’s 23 districts with a three-digit figure of new cases found. Eight districts reported single-digit figures. Calcutta, North and South 24-Parganas, Howrah, Hooghly and Nadia accounted for 570 – 75.2 per cent – of the new infections detected on Thursday. The daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 2.05 per cent on Thursday. The state’s recovery rate is 98.31 per cent, a shade below the national rate of 98.33. Sixteen Bengal districts reported zero deaths. Calcutta and North 24-Parganas reported two each. The state’s mortality rate is 1.2, while that of the nation is 1.34 per cent. Bengal now has over 16.12 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was logged in March last year. The total includes over 15.85 lakh recoveries and 19,430 casualties.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-85
26-11-2021||West Bengal||Shops for unemployed lie idle, govt opens doorway for other activites||The Mamata Banerjee government has decided to throw open Karma Tirthas — market complexes set up to provide shops to unemployed youth — for various other activities after it was found that majority of the shops remained unoccupied because of lack of interest from the unemployed. “As more than 11,000 shops at 534 Karma Tirthas across the state are lying vacant, steps are being initiated to make the establishments functional by allowing several other activities. The primary target is to utilise the establishments that were constructed at the cost of more than Rs 500 crore,” said a senior government official. The state government has now decided to allow any kind of commercial activity related to manufacturing and the sale of produces of micro and small-scale enterprises, garment manufacturers, self-help groups and cooperatives. The Karma Tirthas have been thrown open to be used as office space for clusters, self-help groups, cooperatives or rural entrepreneurs. The move, sources said, was considered to be a smart one by the state government as it could make unused structures useful. “At least a sum of Rs 500 crore was used to set up the market complexes where at least 15,000 shops were set up for distribution among the unemployed youths. As nearly 11,000 shops at these 534 market complexes are lying vacant, steps were needed for use of the structures. If the structures remain unused, these will get damaged and a handsome amount go through the drains,” said another official. A section of the officials said although the initiative to make complete use of the structures was a good one, it gives a lesson to learn for the administration. “These structures were set up at the places where government land was available, which is far away from market areas. That is why unemployed youths did not show interest in getting the shops allotted. Now, we should know that projects have to come up in the areas where these would be viable, not the places where the land is available,” said a source. This, sources said, explained why the shops remained unused despite the fact that there was lack of employment opportunities in the state. According to officials, because of the same reason a majority of the 170-odd Krishak Bazars could not be made fully functional in the state. “The state tried to shift local vegetable markets to these Krishak Bazars, but as majority of them are far away from local markets, majority of them could not be made fully functional,” said a source adding that activities like paddy procurement were being done at these structures these days, but those didn’t serve the purpose they were constructed for. The state government is trying to increase footfall at the Karma Tirthas by asking state-run buses to stop near the establishments, but such initiative has hardly helped so far. It now remains to be seen where allowing more activities would help to make the establishments functional.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-85
26-11-2021||West Bengal||Homecoming for Alipurduar man after 25-year jail terms ||Faridul Islam Mia, 47, returned home to Alipurduar after 25 years carrying a bagful of memories which seems surreal and straight out of a reel life. Faridul said that in the past 25 years, he was arrested twice on false charges of murdering a businessman and for being a Pakistani citizen; lost his memory and finally regained it only recently helping him trace his roots. According to a family source, Faridul , a resident of Chengmaritari village under Falakata block of Alipurduar district had left for Delhi 25 years ago in search of a job. “He started working for a businessman in Gokulpuri but after a couple of years, the businessman was killed. Faridul, was arrested on murder charges and was lodged in a correctional home for 10 months. He started suffering from depression,” a family member said. Faridul’s friend then arranged a marriage for him with a girl from Panipat. Stability, however, eluded Faridul’s life. “A few years later, I was once again arrested as somebody complained that I was a Pakistani national,” said Faridul. The Alipurduar resident said that he could not prove his Indian identity as the voter identity card was his businessman who was murdered. Faridul was in Tihar jail for five months. “Suddenly, an advocate decided to take up my case without charging a penny,” he added. The stint at the correctional home took a toll on Faridul’s health. “Faridul became a father of a son and a daughter and returned to his family at Panipat but he suddenly forgot everything and was under constant treatment,” said a family source. Believe it or not, family members said that a few months back, Faridul suddenly uttered the name of his village and even remembered the name of his school Nathuni Singh Higher Secondary School. “His son immediately googled the school and showed the picture of the institution to his father. Surprisingly on watching the picture Faridul remembered everything,” said a family source. Faridul immediately started preparing for his return last week. Pahirduddin Mia, father of Faridul was in tears. “I could not believe that Faridul had returned as I was certain I would not see him in my lifetime. I would always think what might have happened to him that he could not even contact us all these years.” “I will never leave this place now. I hope no one has to go through such an ordeal,” said Faridul.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-85
26-11-2021||West Bengal||State expresses willingness to hold civic polls by April 30||The state government informed a Calcutta High Court division bench headed by Chief Justice Prakash Shrivastava that it intends to complete the poll process in 114 civic bodies of the state by April 30 next year. S.N. Mukherjee, the state’s advocate-general, made the submission to the division bench on Thursday. Mukherjee also informed that these polls would be held in phases and that the Calcutta Municipal Corporation would go to polls on December 19. Meanwhile on Thursday, the BJP moved a petition before the same bench, challenging the legality of the notification on the CMC polls issued by the state election commission, even as a related case remains pending before the court. It was contended in the petition that the court was already hearing a case, which sought polls to all 114 civic bodies on a single day and not in phases. The new petition referred to a statement made by the counsel of the state poll panel on Wednesday. The lawyers of the commission had hinted that it wouldn’t announce polls unless the case was disposed of. However, the commission did notify the polls to the CMC on Thursday, an act that must be considered as contempt of court, the petition said. Chief Justice Shrivastava said that the new petition would be heard along with the main case on November 29. The BJP’s chief state spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya said that his party would first fight out a legal battle over the poll panel’s notification. He added that if necessary, the BJP would move higher courts. “We will not hide behind the judiciary and contest the polls with full might. However, we are considering all legal options since we think the notification is proof that the state government and the commission are imposing their might on the people of the state,” Bhattacharya said. “Do the residents of Calcutta belong to a privileged class...? Why should the residents of all other municipalities and corporations be deprived of civic amenities?” he questioned. CPM leader Sujan Chakraborty also said that his party has demanded simultaneous polls to all civic bodies. He wondered why the commission backtracked from what its counsel had said before the court on Wednesday. “The state government delayed the polls to the civic bodies. We want all polls on a single day. What will happen to the rest? Is this some madman’s rule? The commission has lost its backbone,” Chakraborty alleged. The Congress’s Rajya Sabha Pradip Bhattacharya also spoke in favour of conducting polls to all 114 civic bodies on a single day. BJP leaders alleged that it was unfair on the part of the commission to notify polls to the CMC while the matter was pending before the court. They also said in earlier instances, whenever the party or anyone else had moved court challenging the polls, it was said that the court couldn’t stall or interfere in a poll process once it had begun. “We would like to mention here that this time the BJP had moved court before the notification was issued and before the polls had started,” Bhattacharya said. Trinamul Congress, however, debunked the Opposition’s claims and said that the party or the government had no role in it. Trinamul vice-president Saugata Roy said the state poll panel is an independent body that has announced the polls on its own. “They (BJP) should’ve lodged their complaints with the state poll panel rather than voicing them against us…. The BJP had won not a single Assembly seat (in Calcutta). They know they’ll lose and hence this drama,” he said. “Polls have been announced. Now our candidates will file nomination and we shall start campaigning for them,” he added. Candidates list: Bengal BJP’s general-secretary (organisation) Amitava Chakraborty, CMC poll in-charge Pratap Banerjee, CMC poll observer and MP Arjun Singh and party leader Sisir Bajoria met on Thursday evening to discuss a probable candidate list for the polls for the Calcutta civic polls. However, party sources said that the BJP would not be able to declare all 144 candidates at one go. The names would be announced in phases and the first list won’t be out before Saturday, sources added. The Left Front is likely to announce its list of candidates on Friday. The Front will announce names of 128 candidates and leave out 16 wards where it sees no chance of even putting up a fight. “These 16 wards also include some Congress strongholds. We might not field our candidate against them,” a party source said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-86
26-11-2021||West Bengal||December 19 date for city polls, Calcutta vote count likely on Dec 21 ||The West Bengal State Election Commission on Thursday issued a gazette notification, announcing polls to 144 wards of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation on December 19. Votes will most likely be counted on December 21 while the entire poll process will be wrapped up by December 22, state election commissioner Saurabh Das said at a news conference. Election to the CMC was due since the five-year tenure of the elected body expired in May 2020. Polls could not be held at that time because of the Covid-19 pandemic. “The Model Code of Conduct came into effect as soon as the election notification was issued. Filing of nominations also started today. The date of counting will be notified through a separate notification later,” Das said. Polls will be held at 4,742 primary booths and 385 auxiliary booths. Around 40.48 lakh voters will cast their votes between 7am and 5pm, Das said. He added that the polls would be conducted through EVMs and by adhering to the Covid-19 protocols followed by the Election Commission of India during the Assembly polls and bypolls. The last date for filing nominations is December 1, while they will be scrutinised on December 2. A candidate can withdraw the nomination latest by December 4. In case there is a need for re-poll in any ward, it will be done on December 20. Initially, the commission had plans to hold polls to the Calcutta and Howrah municipal corporations together on December 19, sources said. However, on Thursday, polls to the Howrah civic body weren't notified. Sources in the administration said the election date for Howrah could not be notified on Thursday as the bill that was introduced to exclude Bally from Howrah Municipal Corporation was yet to secure the governor’s ascent. “The state wants to hold polls in Howrah after the demerger of the Bally municipality area from the corporation. As the governor is yet to sign the demerger bill, the poll notification for Howrah Municipal Corporation could not be issued on Thursday,” said an official. State Election commissioner said the state poll panel was yet to receive any communication regarding HMC polls. “According to the Act, the commission decides the date of polls in consultation with the government. The state government communicates a probable date to hold polls and the commission may or may not decide on it. However, no such communication has been received regarding Howrah Municipal Corporation,” Das said. With this, the initial plan of the state to hold polls of HMC along with CMC appears to be impossible. “If polls in Howrah were to be held on December 19, the notification had to be issued by Thursday. Since the governor has not yet signed the bill of demerger, the commission had no other option but to go ahead with Calcutta only,” a source in the state poll panel said. The commission has sought a report from the DGP of the state and the Police Commissioner of Calcutta detailing the security requirements during the polls. “They will submit a report within a couple of days. After that we will let you know the details of security arrangements,” Das said. However he added that the break up of security personnel posted in all booths will be ‘the same as the last time.’||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-86
