27-11-2021||West Bengal||Left sticks to Assembly poll strategy, banks on youth, women||The Left Front announced its list of candidates for Calcutta Municipal Corporation polls on Friday, before Trinamul did later in the day,  and stuck to its Assembly poll strategy of fielding young faces and women. The Left Front, however, announced 114 nominees. It did not announce candidates for all 144 seats of CMC as it kept 15-16 seats vacant for parties like Indian Secular Front (ISF), Congress and any other whose stand is against both the BJP and the Trinamul in the state. The list also did not name candidates for 11 seats where one of the Left parties will be contesting, a CPM leader said. “We did not field candidates in 15-16 wards out of the 144 and decided to support any party capable of defeating the Trinamul and the BJP. For these we have in mind parties like the Congress and the ISF,” said Kallol Majumdar, the CPM’s district committee secretary in Calcutta. The CMC election is scheduled on December 19. Sources in the CPM said that the Left Front in selecting candidates for the civic poll stuck to the trend of fielding young faces, a strategy it had adopted in the last Assembly polls. For the CMC polls, 70 per cent of the total contestants are below 50 years. Of the 114 names announced by the Left, 57 are women contestants. “The ruling party has failed people. The administration is being run on whiplashes. Illegal construction, dilapidated buildings, unscientific approaches to the environment are rampant... the people of Calcutta have faced all such problems. We will go to the people with our campaigns on the needs of people and what they have not received,” said Majumdar. Along with the list of candidates, the CPM released its manifesto for the CMC election designed on the lines of the Assembly polls. “The manifesto is very specific to what the Left wants to do and is smart to attract the people. It has highlighted problems the people in Calcutta are facing and promises to solve those if voted to power,” said a senior CPM leader.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-84
27-11-2021||West Bengal||Malda: An innovative way to woo new voters through Soccer ||Football, the beautiful game, is helping Malda district administration achieve more score on the voter list. The administration has come up with an innovative method to enlist new voters. Football matches for players under 19 years old are being held in Malda district. “These matches are attracting young crowds and while the matches are being held, the administration is distributing forms for names’ enrolment on the voters list,” said a source. “On an average, 250 to 300 forms are collected by eligible voters during the football matches,” Soumyo Ghosh, office-in-charge of the election department, said. Schools in each of the 15 blocks of the district have been shortlisted to contest against each. Winner of the block-level will compete at the sub-divisional level before the grand finale. “Senior administrative officials will be present at the finals which will be held at Englishbazar in Malda soon,” said Arun Sardar, district youth officer. The football matches are also attracting parents whose wards are eligible to vote. “The parents too are showing interest. Overall the campaign has been successful and we are expecting a good enrolment of first time voters,” said a district official. The revision of voters list will be completed on January 5. As of now there are nearly 29.96 lakh voters in Malda district out of whom 14.73 lakh voters are women as learnt from the sources.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-84
27-11-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul leaders try to pacify Deocha-Pachami dissenters||Local Trinamul leaders on Friday met Birbhum Adivasi Gaonta leaders and others to try and win their support for the proposed Deocha-Pachami coal mine project, a day after tribal dwellers in the project area’s Harinsingha village expressed unwillingness to part with their land. The meeting is considered  significant as it was the first attempt by the ruling establishment to convince unwilling people to come around the project on which the state is depending heavily. In the meeting at the office of Gaonta in Suri town, village head Joseph Marandi and a group of 20 representatives of tribal people were present. Afterwards, Trinamul leaders claimed that tribal representatives appeared convinced to an extent and agreed on talks with the government about the rehabilitation package and other demands. “On Thursday, we had decided we would not get part with our land. But we were  assured (on Friday) that the government would not deprive us. We clearly told them (the Trinamul leaders) that we have additional demands... ,” said Joseph Marandi, the village head of Harinsingha village on Friday. Marandi on Thursday had said he and his supporters would not give up land for the Deocha-Pachami project. “There are many doubts and flaws in the package that we want to fix,” he said on Friday. Deocha-Pachami is the largest coal block in the state with a stock of around 2.2 billion tonnes. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on November 9 announced the Rs 10 crore rehabilitation package for those who will be displaced. After Thursday’s development, Trinamul leaders and leaders of Birbhum Adivasi Gaonta called the head and influential villagers of Harinsingha for a meeting to try and convince them of the merits of the rehabilitation package that includes “competitive land rates and a government job to a person of every displaced family”. “We have now demanded that the government give the promised job first before taking our land,” said Rabin Soren, a senior leader of Birbhum Adivasi Gaonta. Kali Prosad Banerjee, Trinamul’s youth president in Mohammedbazar, who attended Friday’s meeting, said Thursday's display unwillingness  was the result of “provocation” by some people of the area. “We sat with the tribal people and explained why the coal mine is required and how the package announced by our chief minister Mamata Banerjee is good for them. They primarily understood… and agreed to add their other demands. We welcomed it,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-84
27-11-2021||West Bengal||Siliguri: Truck loses control, crashes into shops, four die ||A truck laden with boulders lost control and ploughed through three shops before overturning in the Jaleswari market area along Eastern bypass in Siliguri on Thursday night, killing four people and injuring five. The deceased were a shop owner, two customers and a pedestrian. A fire brigade team reached the accident spot and used a crane to remove the toppled truck, under which several people lay trapped. The injured people were admitted to Siliguri district hospital and North Bengal Medical College and Hospital here. “Two persons were declared brought-dead at the district hospital, while two others succumbed to their injuries at North Bengal Medical College and Hospital,” a police source said. Sources said the truck had scythed through a tea stall, fruit shop and a stationery shop around 8.30pm. The deceased were Ranjan Singha, Bapi Sarkar, Jagadish Debnath and Joydeep Modak. Their age could not be immediately confirmed. According to the sources, the truck driver lost control of the vehicle, following which it overturned. “The truck lost control and collided with the divider of the road and crashed into three roadside shops,” said a source. Among the injured was the truck driver. Local residents expressed outrage over inadequate lighting and the traffic system. They blocked the road on Friday morning and expressed outrage. “We have been witnessing accidents in the bypass area for a long time. There are no adequate lights in the area and trucks and other vehicles go very fast as the traffic system is not good,” said a local resident. Siliguri police commissioner Gaurav Sharma visited the spot on Friday morning. “It was a very unfortunate incident. A truck was going from Salugara. When the truck entered the Jaleswari market, an eyewitness said, the driver could not control it and crashed into roadside shops. We will sort out traffic issues so that this kind of incident does not happen anywhere in Siliguri in future,” he said. Siliguri Jalpaiguri Development Authority chairman Sourav Chakraborty visited the injured people on Friday. “The chief minister has asked the administration to look into the matter. The state government will bear the cost of the treatment,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-84
27-11-2021||West Bengal||Official thrashed by ‘BJP workers’ in Nandigram, gets injured||An extension official with the Kisan Mandi in East Midnapore's Nandigram was roughed up allegedly by BJP activists on Friday, leaving him seriously injured. The incident took place in Haripur village, where eyewitnesses said that the officer was targeted by a group of BJP activists for trying to “manipulate” the local residents on agriculture-based issues including selective seed distribution. “The altercation soon spiralled out of control, and police were called by eyewitnesses as soon as the situation got physical,” said a source, adding that senior gram panchayat officials in Haripur also responded to the incident. Police said the BJP workers took out an impromptu protest march in the morning to the Mandi. “Extension officer Bidyutbaran Mandal was heckled and targeted as soon as he left the confines of the Mandi,”  a police source added. Then, Mandal was allegedly beaten up by BJP workers. Following police intervention he was rushed to a local hospital. Later in the day, a visibly shaken Mandal spoke to reporters from the hospital. The official said he was taken aback by the suddenness of the attack on him. “No sooner had I left the Mandi than I was attacked. Blows and slaps rained on me before I could gather myself,” he said. As the incident occurred in front of several people, it was recorded on camera by many present there. Rahul Pandey, SDPO (Haldia), said seven persons had been detained as of Friday afternoon. Asked to comment on the incident, Trinamul’s Nandigram block president Swades Das said BJP leaders were trying to “unsettle” Nandigram. “Incidents like these show that the BJP are opposed to development and progress in the state. The culprits must be brought to justice,”  he said. BJP block leader Meghnad Pal insisted that the incident was the result of a “misunderstanding”. “This was not a planned attack at all. Our workers realised their mistake and apologised to Mandal on the spot,” said Pal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-84
27-11-2021||West Bengal||Covid report: 710 infections, 721 recoveries, nine deaths in Bengal||Bengal on Friday reported 710 Covid-19 infections, 721 recoveries and nine deaths, resulting in a drop by 20 in its total of active cases to 7,847. Over the past 62 days — since Bengal snapped out of a 97-day streak of constant fall in the total of active cases ahead of the Puja season on September 26 — the state recorded a rise in its total of active cases for 33 days and a fall for 28 days. In these 62 days, there has been a net rise of 173 in the state’s total of active cases, from 7,674.A minister said the number of new cases reported on Friday was indicative of people who had got infected in the period from November 17 (four days after Jagaddhatri Puja) to 21. Calcutta reported 183 new infections and North 24-Parganas 142 on Friday, the only two of the state’s 23 districts with three-digit figures of new cases found. Seven districts reported single-digit figures. Calcutta, North and South 24-Parganas, Howrah, Hooghly and Nadia accounted for 527 — 74.23 per cent — of the new infections detected on Friday. The daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.87 per cent on Friday. The state’s recovery rate is 98.31 per cent, a shade below the national rate of 98.33. Nineteen Bengal districts reported zero deaths. Calcutta reported three, while North 24-Parganas reported four. The state’s mortality rate is 1.2, while that of the nation is 1.34 per cent. Bengal now has over 16.13 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was logged in March last year. The total includes over 15.86 lakh recoveries and 19,439 casualties.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-84
27-11-2021||West Bengal||In Calcutta, Gurung and associates seek Didi’s appointment||Bimal Gurung, president of Gorkha Janmukti Morcha, who joined hands with Mamata Banerjee last year in October, but has not publicly met her since then, is seeking an appointment with the Trinamul leader. Gurung is currently in Calcutta with his senior party leaders, including party general secretary Roshan Giri, senior leader R.B.. Bhujel and youth leaders Prakash Gurung and Anil Lopchan. Giri, speaking to this newspaper, said: “We are seeking an appointment (with Mamata Banerjee). Nothing is confirmed yet.” Gurung’s party was in alliance with the BJP from 2009 until October 2020. Even though Gurung decided to join hands with Mamata Banerjee last year, there are no records of Bimal and Mamata having met after forging the alliance in Calcutta. When asked if the two leaders have met outside public glare, Giri simply said: “I cannot comment on this question.” Giri’s admission that his party president is looking to meet Mamata is a clear indication that the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha want their president, Bimal Gurung, to be publicly seen with the Bengal chief minister. Political observers maintain that given the present political landscape in the hills; many parties are of the opinion that sending a message of proximity with the chief minister will actually be beneficial for their party. “The chief minister has announced that the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA) elections will be held after the revision of the electoral rolls are completed, possibly in January 2022. “Many hill leaders believe that being close to the state government would help them in terms of perception as the GTA elections are conducted by Bengal’s  hill affairs department,” said an observer. The GTA elections are due since 2017. Mamata had talked about holding the GTA election in an administrative meeting held at Kurseong on October 26. However, in that meeting Anit Thapa, president of Bharatiya Gorkha Prajatantrik Morcha, and a rival to Gurung was present. Giri, representing the Morcha, was also present but not Gurung. In Calcutta, Gurung and his team met Partha Chatterjee, the vice-president of Trinamul, on Thursday. “We are of the opinion that the elections to the GTA should not be immediately held as the issue of permanent political solution is linked to the GTA elections. The political solution should be worked out first,” said Giri. On Friday, Gurung  and his team met state food and supplies minister Ratin Ghosh. One of the founders of the Morcha, Gurung had not made any public appearance for three years since the 2017 Gorkhaland agitation in the hills.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-84
27-11-2021||West Bengal||Tiger count across Bengal like rest of the country will be digital ||The tiger census across Bengal, part of the big cat count  across the country, will be totally digital and paperless this time. Data will be recorded from ground zero (inside the core areas) to avoid human error and to save time. The endeavour, which is set to begin from December 5, will use two applications — Polygon Search and Patrol — conceived and developed by the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA). These apps will be used for the first time across India. The apps apart, forest personnel are being trained to operate a software, M-STrIPES (monitoring system for tigers -intensive protection and ecological status), which was introduced by the NTCA, among others. The apps are available in over 20 languages that include Bengali, an official of the Sunderbans Tiger Reserve said. The estimation will be carried out across south and north Bengal. At least 12 teams equipped with the devices loaded with the two applications will be engaged for the estimation programme. The personnel will get hands-on training about the application soon. The forest department concluded two days of training of trainers on Thursday at Sajnekhali, one of the crucial sites in south Bengal for the tiger count. Speaking to The Telegraph, Sunderbans Tiger Reserve’s deputy field director Justine Jones said: “The edition of the tiger estimation programme is absolutely going to be pen-less and paperless due to usage of the two apps. On previous occasions, the apps were used in only a handful of forest areas as a pilot project. But this time this will be a pan-India affair to ensure accuracy in recording data in a short time.” “Before undertaking the estimation we are imparting training to officials, who will train other team members,” Jones said. “The objective of the training programme is not just to make the officials aware about the new technology but at the same time to accustom them with the scientific protocols set up by the NTCA and the Wildlife Institute of India (WWI) authorities,” he added. The national estimation of tigers is done every four years by the NTCA along with the Dehradun-based WWI. The last national estimation was carried out in 2018, which spotted 88 tigers in the Sunderbans. However, a subsequent in-house estimation during the next two years recorded  96, an official of the Sunderbans Tiger Reserve said. In the proposed fresh estimation, the existing GIS patrolling module, entire field data relation transect lines, carnivore and herbivore signs will be loaded in the two apps for the actual estimation. NTCA authorities have planned to release a summary report of fresh estimation on July 29 next year, World Tiger Day. Actual work of the census will begin with installing trap cameras from December 5 in the Sunderbans.“In the first phase we will install trap cameras at 748 locations to monitor the movement of tigers and other animals. The entire process will be over by February next year,” Jones said. Budhwaraj Sewa, field director, Buxa Tiger Reserve (BTR), told this paper that tiger estimation was likely to begin in January in all the forests of north Bengal.” He said methods of direct sighting and indirect evidence collection would be employed in the estimation exercise. The forest department will place 75-odd trap cameras in north Bengal forests. Though most of Bengal’s tigers are in the Sunderbans, north Bengal’s Neora Valley National Park in Kalimpong has reported big cat sightings. A few years back, locals had sighted a tiger at Neora Valley, situated at an altitude of around 10,000 feet. Sources also said that even though no tigers have been recently spotted at Buxa Tiger Reserve in the Dooars region of Bengal, there were plans to introduce the big cats in the region. Along with the tiger estimation, a census on big herbivores like deer, antelopes, guars, rhinoceroses and elephants among others would also be conducted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-84
27-11-2021||West Bengal||TMC finalises 144 candidates, mostly loyalists on list for polls||Trinamul on Friday finalised its list for 144 candidates for as many wards of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation over a 155-minute meeting at Mamata Banerjee’s residence, retaining 87 of its 126 outgoing councillors, including outgoing mayor Firhad Hakim and deputy Mayor Atin Ghosh. In near-total defiance of speculation rife over the past few weeks, the list bore a firm imprint of the chief minister’s intervention and the intent to largely rely on time-tested loyalists who delivered as councillors, rather than on surveys and reports in favour of the new and the young attributed to poll strategist Prashant Kishor and Trinamul’s Number Two Abhishek Banerjee. “I am a mere member of our party’s loyal infantry. If the party is giving me yet another chance, I will give it my best yet again. Let me fight and win as a councillor first,  mayoral considerations are the leadership’s prerogative,” said Hakim, the transport minister, who is among the six Calcutta MLAs being fielded by Trinamul. The others are Ghosh, Debashis Kumar, Debabrata Majumdar, Paresh Pal and Ratna Chatterjee. Calcutta South MP Mala Roy, too, is getting a ticket. Rajya Sabha member Santanu Sen is the only major face among outgoing Trinamul councillors being denied candidature. His wife Kakoli is being fielded instead. The party, secretary-general Partha Chatterjee clarified, is not going to the election with a mayoral face. The matter will be decided after the results. In the 2019 Lok Sabha election, amid unprecedented gains by the BJP in the state, the saffron camp secured leads in 50 of the 144 wards, but that was reduced to 11, two of which were further wrested by Trinamul in the September bypoll in Bhowanipore. “We are going into the polls with (Assembly election results, extrapolated) leads in 134 of the 144 wards. The BJP has leads in nine wards. The Congress leads in one. The Left leads in none. The results of the election next month are unlikely to be very different. We may make more gains,” said a Trinamul vice-president. “We got over 60 per cent of the votes in CMC, in the Assembly election this summer. The BJP got zero seats, and secured barely 29 per cent votes. That gap can only widen further right now,” he added. Of the 87 outgoing councillors being retained, nine are going to be fielded from wards different from the ones they won from in 2015. “Sixty-four of our 144 candidates are women, that’s nearly 45 per cent, in keeping with our unwavering commitment to women empowerment,” said Calcutta North MP Sudip Bandyopadhyay, one of the seniors who attended the meeting at Mamata’s residence 30B Harish Chatterjee Street. “Nineteen of our candidates are from Scheduled Castes. Twenty-three are from minority communities, including two from the Christian community...,” he added. Trinamul replaced 39 outgoing councillors – including former Jorasanko MLA Smita Bakshi, Sudarshana Mukherjee, Ratan Dey and Ratan Malakar — promising to utilise their services in party organisation or other areas. The number of new candidates is 57. They include Kakoli Sen, Mamata’s sister-in-law Kajari Banerjee, deceased minister Subrata Mukherjee’s sister Tanima Chatterjee, minister Shashi Panja’s daughter Pooja Panja, minister Chandrima Bhattacharya’s son Sourav Basu and MLA Swarnakamal Saha’s son Sandipan Saha. Also in fray among the new is former cricket administrator Bishwarup Dey. “She (Mamata) struck a deft balance between the old and the new, between the experienced and the fresh blood, between her own instincts and the advice of Team PK (Kishor) and Abhishek. This is a splendid list,” said a senior Rajya Sabha member of the party. “It proves beyond doubt, if any remained, that she wields total control and has the final word on matters pertaining to the party. Some, however, might argue that this goes against our newly adopted policy of one person, one post,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-84
