28-11-2021||West Bengal||Tripura civic polls: Bengal BJP celebrates, TMC emerges as main Opposition||The TMC, which has left the CPI(M) behind to emerge as the main Opposition of the BJP in several wards of Tripura's municipal bodies, said on Sunday that its ‘exceptional’ performance, despite being a new entrant in the state, is an indicator of the party's prospects in 2023 assembly elections. The BJP leadership, rejoicing over the saffron camp's emphatic win in the northeastern state, however, stated that the civic poll results have exposed the "hollowness" of TMC's claims of having made inroads in Tripura. Several BJP workers here were seen feasting on sweets and smearing each other with 'gulal' during the day to celebrate their party's victory in the neighbouring state. Taking to Twitter, TMC national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee, nevertheless, said that it was "exceptional" for his party, which had negligible presence in Tripura, to have clinched "20 per cent of the vote share". "This is despite the fact that we commenced our activities barely 3 months ago and @BJP4Tripura left no stone unturned to BUTCHER DEMOCRACY in Tripura. Congratulations to all the brave soldiers of @AITC4Tripura for their exemplary courage," he tweeted. Echoing him, the TMC's West Bengal general secretary and spokesperson Kunal Ghosh said that his party has been able to secure the second position in several seats, "despite the violence unleashed by the ruling BJP" there. "2023 is ours, it (the results) forms the foundation of Trinamool's victory in 2023," Ghosh tweeted as results keep pouring in from different municipal bodies. He claimed that the TMC has been able to gain support of a considerable section of people. Alleging that the BJP was forming municipal boards by securing wins through violence and intimidation, the TMC leader further accused the police and the state election commission in Tripura of favouring the saffron party. He thanked party workers for their efforts and the people of Tripura for their support. Earlier in the day, BJP national vice-president Dilip Ghosh told reporters here that the saffron camp shares a "strong bond" with the residents of that state. The TMC will not be able to open its account in Tripura "unless the BJP decides against fielding candidate from a seat", he maintained. "The civic poll results are on expected lines. The TMC did not have any chance to open its account in Tripura, they only made noises. This verdict shows hired people from West Bengal cannot help a party create a base in a state, which has faith in the BJP and not in Trinamool," the BJP leader underlined. Leader of opposition in West Bengal Assembly Suvendu Adhikari extended his wishes to BJP workers and leaders and Tripura. "Heartiest congratulations @BJP4Tripura & Hon'ble CM @BjpBiplab for registering landslide victory in Agartala Corporation & all other Nagar Panchayats and Municipalities. We are grateful to the people of Tripura for wiping out the corrupt & fascist Tolamool (extortionist) party of Bengal," he wrote on the microblogging platform. Adhikari was apparently referring to allegations of extortion and corruption levelled by the opposition camps in Bengal against the ruling TMC in the recent past. BJP's Bengal unit president Sukanta Majumdar told reporters that the TMC had tried to create a false impression about its popularity in Tripura. "The TMC tried to destabilise the situation in Tripura by taking miscreants there from Bengal. The party has no support base in that state," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-83
28-11-2021||West Bengal||Congress announces first list of candidates for civic polls on its own||The Bengal Congress announced its first list of candidates for the Calcutta Municipal Corporation on Saturday, with 66 names, hinting at the absence of political alliance with the Left in the forthcoming civic polls. Former Congress MLA Nepal Mahato said his party had sent a proposal to the Left Front regarding the polls, but as there was no response, the Congress decided to go ahead on its own. The Congress list has the names of two former Trinamul councillors — Partha Mitra and Mumtaz Begum. They have been fielded as candidates for wards 8 and 138. Mitra and Begum were dropped from Trinamul’s list of names issued on Friday. Congress sources said the party would field candidates in 122 out of the 144 wards of the CMC. The Left on Friday announced its list of 114 candidates for the December 19 CMC polls. CPM Calcutta district committee secretary Kallol Ma¬jumdar had said then that they would not field candidates in 1516 wards. Anyone, including from the Congress and the ISF, who can defeat Trinamul in these wards will be sup¬ported by the Left, Majumdar had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-83
28-11-2021||West Bengal||Truck overturns, four  migrant workers dead, several injured  ||Four migrant workers died and many others were injured after a mini-truck in which they were travelling overturned in Jharkhand’s Patamda, bordering Purulia’s Barabazar, early on Saturday. Sources said 32 migrant workers were travelling from Purulia and Bankura to Jharkhand’s Tatanagar railway station to catch a train to Visakhapatnam in Andhra Pradesh for commercial painting jobs. “We had to catch a train in Visakhapatnam on Saturday morning, so we started from Barabazar around 1.30am. However, as soon as we crossed the border with Jharkhand, the driver of the mini-truck lost control. Three persons were killed on the spot and another died in the hospital,” said Malay Kumar Mahato, one of the migrant workers. Police and local sources said three of the deceased — Nirmal Mahato, 45, Durjodhon Mahato, 25, and Kirtibas Mahato, 30 — are residents of villages under Sindri gram panchayat of Barabazar. The fourth, Sanjoy Karmakar, 30, was from Bankura’s Khatra. Masud Raihan, the block development officer of Purulia’s Barabazar, said he was informed about the accident in which three persons from his block area was killed. “Those killed in the mishap are all migrant workers. We are keeping in touch with the local civic bodies. In case the families needs help from us, we will give it,” the BDO said. After the second wave of the pandemic subsided, migrant workers started going back to their workplaces. “We had returned home during the lockdown but as we needed money to run our families we were going to Visakhapatnam on work again,” said worker Brindaban Mahato.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-83
28-11-2021||West Bengal||Jalpaiguri: Himalayan black bear strays inside village, rescued ||A Himalayan black bear that had strayed inside a village in Nagrakata block of Jalpaiguri district on Saturday morning was tranquillised and rescued by foresters after an effort of seven hours. In the past three days, this is the second incident of a wild bear entering a locality in the western Dooars. On November 24, another bear had entered the Metelli tea estate, a few kilometres away from Nagrakata, and killed a 16-year-old student after which local people had beaten the animal to death. Around 9am on Saturday, workers of Bhagatpur tea estate spotted a bear coming out of the tea bushes. Gautam Oraon, a worker, fell into a drain while trying to escape and got injured. The bear then entered the plantations of Gathia tea estate and reached Maynatoli, a village nearby. There, it took shelter at a bamboo plantation. Nearly 10 teams of foresters and the police, reached Maynatoli. Finally, around 3.30pm, the animal was tranquillised and the foresters managed to cast a net on it. It was then carried to a cage in a vehicle and shifted to the Gorumara National Park. The foresters said the bear was fine. “It will be released soon in Neora Valley National Park,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-83
28-11-2021||West Bengal||State to rope in 50 consultants to give more teeth to administration ||The Mamata Banerjee government will appoint 50 senior consultants and consultants in 24 departments to make her administration “future ready” by using technologies and plugging the gaps of her government. However, questions remain on whether top-notch experts can be hired as the remuneration, insiders said, would not be “up to the mark”. Sources in Nabanna said the state government would soon float an advertisement seeking applications for senior consultant and consultant posts. Senior consultants, who would be equivalent to the rank of special secretaries — a very senior position in the government — would get a monthly salary of Rs 2 lakh. Consultants, who will be equivalent to the rank of joint secretaries, will get Rs 1.5 lakh a month. There is no other allowance except for cars for official use. “The experts will be engaged on a two-year contract. It does not appear that the government has made the offer lucrative enough to rope in the best corporate talents,” said an official. According to the contents of the advertisement to be published soon, the government has focused on experts who can bring in a change in the way the administration works. For example, consultants in the school education departments will be responsible for developing high quality e-content for teachers and students along with IT-based solutions for child-based tracking for foundational literacy and numeracy. Sources said these were the need of the hour, particularly in the backdrop of the pandemic. Similarly, the job responsibilities of consultants to be appointed in the PWD include identification of new material and technologies for construction and maintenance of roads and other constructions. Consultants in the PHE would have the onus of generating awareness on rainwater harvesting and developing programmes for groundwater recharge, among others. Sources said that it was clear from the job description of consultants that the government was trying to plug the loopholes in its functioning and laying stress on use of technologies. “The initiative is good but the question is whether the posts are lucrative enough to attract competent professionals from the corporate sector,” said a bureaucrat, adding that experts with a similar profile in the corporate sector earn much more than Rs 2 lakh a month and get several perks. “This recruitment will be contractual. So, top-level experts in the corporate sector may not show interest. Mediocre experts won’t help the state’s cause,” said a source. An official said the government was aware of this. Hence, people till the age of 70 years can apply. “The government is clearly trying to woo experts who have retired from the corporate sector. But will retired persons be aware of the latest technologies?” he asked.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-83
28-11-2021||West Bengal||Bengal BJP struggles to find faces, eyes turncoats to field for polls||The Bengal BJP, which has not yet announced any name for the Calcutta Municipal Corporation polls, is again banking on Trinamul dissidents ahead of civic polls. For the Assembly election, the BJP’s top-tier leaders had adopted a similar strategy which largely backfired. On Saturday, BJP leaders, including Bengal co-minder Amit Malviya, met over the December 19 civic polls. Management committee observer and co-observer Arjun Singh and Raju Banerjee stayed away. No BJP nominee for the CMC polls was announced, though Trinamul, the Left and the Congress have listed 144, 114 and 66 names, respectively. “We will announce ours in phases,” said a BJP source. The BJP’s chief spokesperson for the state, Samik Bhattacharya, claimed their list was ready “long back”. He added several Trinamul dissidents were in touch with them but no decision on their candidature had been taken. An insider in the CMC poll management committee said they were organisationally in worse shape now than before the Assembly polls. “Even if we get names for all 144 wards in the CMC area, where are the cadres to work on the ground?” he said, adding they had to wait for Trinamul turncoats to handle the poll process. ‘ This time, defectors won’t be fielded as BJP nominees, he said. “We will use them to conduct polls. They will be compensated monetarily.” A similar strategy is being worked for Howrah civic polls as well. However, the idea needs to be vetted by leaders who are overseeing Howrah matters.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-83
28-11-2021||West Bengal||Three workers feared dead in Raniganj factory mishap||Three workers of a private integrated iron plant in West Burdwan’s Raniganj are feared dead after the container with around 300 tonnes of hot fly ash collapsed on them early on Saturday. The incident occurred at the 3MW captive power plant of Shyam Sel and Power Limited at the Mangalpur industrial estate in Raniganj. As of Saturday evening, the administration, police and firefighters were engaged in rescue operations. But no one has been traced. Sources said three workers  are possibly trapped under the hot fly ash produced at the power generating unit since 1am when the mishap occurred. “Chances of their survival are slim as they have been trapped under huge amounts of fly ash for long. We are facing trouble as the ash is still hot,” said a firefighter. Police said four workers were on duty at the captive power plant of the factory in the night shift when the accident occurred. “Only one of them, Shibnath Ram, could be rescued,” said a police officer. Factory management said those feared dead are Tanmoy Ghosh, 42, of nearby Andal, Shib Shankar Bhattacharya, 36, and Dilip Gope, 43, who hail from Bankura district. As the news spread, relatives of the victims and plant workers thronged the factory and accused the management of negligence. INTTUC West Burdwan president Abhijit Ghatak and Raniganj Trinamul MLA Tapas Banerjee joined the accusers. “It is clear case of negligence by the factory management. We demand jobs for a family member of each victim and monetary compensations,” said Ghatak. MLA Banerjee said he instructed the police to start a suo motu case against the factory management. Plant workers alleged that they had repeatedly told the management that the fly ash container had developed a snag but no heed was paid. A senior plant official said only a proper inquiry could prove charges of negligence.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-83
28-11-2021||West Bengal||Bengal reports 701 more Covid cases, 717 recoveries and 11 deaths||Bengal on Saturday reported 701 new Covid-19 infections, 717 recoveries and 11 deaths, with a drop by 27 in its active cases to 7,820. A minister said the new Covid-19 cases reported on Saturday meant those infected between November 18 and 22. Calcutta reported 214 new infections and two deaths, North 24-Parganas 124 new infections and four deaths. These are the only two Bengal districts with a three-digit figure of new cases found in a day. Calcutta, North and South 24-Parganas, Howrah, Hooghly and Nadia accounted for 507 or 72.33 per cent of new infections detected on Saturday. Eight districts reported a single-digit figure of new infections. Seventeen districts reported zero deaths. Bengal’s daily positive confirmation rate, nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.89 per cent on Saturday. The state’s recovery rate is 98.31 per cent now, a shade below the national rate of 98.33 per cent. The state’s mortality rate is 1.2 per cent, while that of the nation is 1.34 per cent. Over the past nine weeks or 63 days, since Bengal snapped out of a 97-day fall in its total of active cases ahead of the Puja season on September 26, there has been a net rise of 146 in the state’s total of active cases, from 7,674. Bengal now has over 16.14 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was logged in March last year. The total includes nearly 15.87 lakh recoveries and 19,450 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-83
28-11-2021||West Bengal||PWD to conduct trial runs on repaired Balason bridge today||The state PWD will conduct trial runs along the Bailey bridge that has been installed on the Balason river bridge on the north-west end of Siliguri on Sunday and Monday, officials of the department said here today. The bridge was installed to resume traffic along the route. Since October 20, traffic is disrupted on the bridge along NH31, after it was damaged by the impact of the monsoon-fed river. According to officials of the NH-IX division of the state PWD, around 90 per cent of the assembly work of the bridge is over. “We will conduct trial runs of vehicles for two days through the Bailey bridge from Sunday. After the test run, a report will be sent to the state government for mandatory recommendation and permission to resume traffic on the bridge,” said an official. He said that the iron structure of he Bailey bridge installed over the damaged part of the Balason bridge is 42 metres long and 4.2 metres wide. “Once the bridge is ready, vehicles weighing not more than 10 tonnes will be allowed on it,” the official added. Initially, two- and three-wheelers and cars would be allowed to cross the bridge. The department has started installing makeshift height bars with bamboos on the approach roads on both sides to restrict movement of vehicles weighing above 10 tonnes. “All such vehicles will continue to run via Asian Highway II route, connecting Siliguri at Naukagat More,” said a source. The PWD is also building a service road through the river bed parallel to the bridge, using Hume pipes Once this road is ready, there will be one-way traffic through the Bailey bridge and the service road to ease traffic snarls. On Saturday, Gaurav Sharma, the commissioner of Siliguri Metropolitan Police, along with some officials of the subdivisional administration, visited the spot. He also came up with certain suggestions for better movement of traffic through the route, said sources.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-83
