29-11-2021||West Bengal||Agenda 2024: Trinamul to pitch for Opposition minus the Congress ||The Trinamul is on way to change the party’s constitution for the first time since August 9, 1998 when it was last amended, barely eight months after Mamata Banerjee had walked out of the Congress and formed a new party on the first day of 1998, as it readies to spread its wings across the length and breadth of the country. However,  what exactly those changes will be have not yet been specified. On Monday, evening at her Kalighat residence, Mamata held a meeting with the 21 members of party’s working committee, drawn on the lines of the Congress working committee where Mamata drew her first blood in politics. Also present were five others, four of them from different political parties—Yashwant Sinha (BJP), Ashok Tanwar (Congress and Apna Bharat Morcha), Mukul Sangma (Congress), Pavan K Verma (JDU) and tennis ace Leander Paes. The takeaway from Monday evening’s brainstorming was that the Trinamul would pitch for an Opposition minus the Congress. That was the main reason why the party stayed away from the Opposition MPs' meeting called by the Congress in  Parliament. The Trinamul was not among the signatories to a letter on the suspension of 12 MPs that included two of their own Rajya Sabha members. The signatories included the Congress, DMK, Shiv Sena, SP, NCP, CPM, CPI, IUML, LJD, JDS, MDMK, TRS and AAP. The last-named party  had also skipped the Opposition meeting. The amendment made on August 9 1998 were regarding rules of the All India Trinamul Congress, which came into effect from June 1st, 2000 more than 21 years ago. “Trinamul will lead the country against the BJP in 2024. We are growing. While the DNA of Trinamul will remain unchanged, some changes will be made in the constitution. Mamata di will take the decisions,” said Derek O’Brien, Trinamul’s Rajya Sabha MP. According to O’Brien members from other states will be inducted into the working committee, though the names would be finalised by Mamata. The party’s constitution itself has given the power to Mamata, often referred to as the Trinamul supremo”, as she being the chairperson, is “the Supreme of the Association Body” since its inception. The Constitution already has provision for opening units in all the 26 states and the six union territories. The article III of the Trinamul states: The name of the Party shall be the ALL INDIA TRINAMOOL CONGRESS. The Party shall have its own flag, logo, symbol and its National Headquarters at such place as the Party shall deem fit and proper. The Pradesh Trinamool Congress Committee shall ordinarily be constituted in the Pradeshes named below with the headquarters mentioned against each. Trinamul is headquartered in Calcutta and unlike the other national parties does not have any office in Delhi. A plot was allotted to the party in 2013 when it was a part of the UPA-II but the Trinamul could not build its office as it is “illegally occupied.” In a letter in 2017 to Hardeep Puri, then Union housing minister, O’Brien had mentioned: “As a member of a recognised national party with almost 50 MPs, I am saddened to inform you that despite running from pillar to post for many years, we are still ‘office-less’ in Delhi. We are compelled to run our office from the residence of the undersigned.” The party also functions from Abhishek Banerjee’s Delhi residence at times. Nothing in the party’s organisation has changed in the last 23 years, except for the post of the secretary-general held by state industries minister Partha Chatterjee, a post which is not mentioned in the party’s constitution. For a while Trinamul has been testing the waters in different states looking at leaders nursing a grudge be it Congress or the BJP, the two biggest national parties in India. With the inclusion of leaders like Verma, Tanwar and Sangma it has now units across North and Eastern India from Haryana to Tripura. Trinamul’s expansionist plans too are not new. For example, the party’s Arunachal Pradesh unit led by the only MLA Laeta Umbrey, a former Congress MP from the state, had merged with the People’s Party of Arunachal in 2013. According to sources, the party has renewed its interest in Arunachal and a Calcutta-based businessman close to the Trinamul’s all India general secretary is camping in Itanagar for the last six days parleying with disgruntled Congress and BJP leaders to join the Trinamul.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-81
29-11-2021||West Bengal||Bengal civic polls: no turncoats, celebrities in BJP nominee list ||Bengal’s main Opposition party, the BJP, released its list of candidates for the 144 wards of Calcutta Municipal Corporation which will go to polls on December 19, the names announced on Monday barely 48 hours before the deadline for submission of nomination ends. Unlike the high-decibel Assembly polls of this summer, the party which has been on a downward slide since has steered clear of any gimmicks like pitching actors and sportspersons looking at politics as an alternate career. The BJP has also not fielded any dissident Trinamul leader from any of the wards, unlike in the Assembly polls when the candidates' list was packed with turncoats from the ruling party. Some of those who won the Assembly polls on a BJP ticket have since returned to the Trinamul, and the BJP has pressed for their disqualification under the anti-defection law. Mina Devi Purohit, the party’s oldest councillor who held the post of deputy mayor when Trinamul Congress ran the civic body 21 years ago with the late Subrata Mukherjee as mayor, has been renominated. Sajal Ghosh, son of former Trinamul leader Pradip Ghosh, who had joined the BJP but is largely sidelined, has also been given a nomination. In the list of 144, the BJP has given tickets to 50 women and 48 young faces. Three doctors and five lawyers have also made it to the list. The only sitting councillor to be dropped is Subrata Ghosh of ward 87, which has now been reserved for women candidates. Ghosh has not been accommodated elsewhere. While the Trinamul has fielded ex-Congress leaders like Mahesh Sharma and Monalisa Banerjee, the Congress, which released a partial list on Saturday, had fielded Trinamul sitting councillor Partha Mitra who has again flipped to the Trinamul. Former Trinamul MLA from Metiabruj Mumtaz Begum is contesting on a Congress ticket. The Congress released another list of 29 candidates from which Mitra was dropped. Congress workers in the port area have expressed their displeasure against the committee led by Purulia Congressman Nepal Mahato to finalise candidates for the CMC polls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-82
29-11-2021||West Bengal||Black bears stray into localities in Jalpaiguri, claim people of 2 places||People living at two locations of the Malbazar subdivision in Jalpaiguri district said on Sunday morning that Himalayan black bears had strayed into their areas and were roaming around. While residents of Soongachi tea estate, on the outskirts of Malbazar town, said they had seen bear’s pugmarks in the garden, those living in Masjidpara, a locality in Dhupjhora of the neighbouring Matialli block, echoed them and said they had also seen scratch marks, usually caused by bears, in some trees of the area. “As we got the information, our quick response team rushed into both the locations and examined the marks. We suspect those to be pugmarks of bears but as other animals, especially cattle, have moved through the area, the pugmarks are not intact. Nevertheless, we are on alert and have also made public announcements in both Soongachi and Masjidpara, urging the residents to be on alert and inform us if they see any bear,” said Dipen Subba, the warden of Malbazar wildlife squad of state forest department. It may be mentioned that in past four days, two Himalayan black bears —– a species that usually lives in upper reaches of Darjeeling, Kalimpong and Sikkim hills and also in forests of the neighbouring state of Bhutan — have been sighted in different areas of Western Dooars (in Malbazar sub-division). While one of the animals was beaten to death by some locals after the bear attacked a boy which led to his death on Wednesday, the other was darted and rescued by foresters from a village of Nagrakata block on Saturday. “We are vigilant and do not want the bear to attack the residents. Also, the residents should not resort to attacks as a section of them did last Wednesday which left the bear dead,” Rajendra Jakhar, the chief conservator of forests (north), said. As the foresters visited both sides, they asked the residents to act safely and keep children and seniors under watch. “None of these children and elderly persons should move alone in their places. We are trying to get confirmation about the pugmarks and pulling all stops to ensure peoples’ safety,” the forest officer said. According to him, it is unusual that instead of going into hibernation, these animals are descending to Dooars. “We need to find out whether this is a new trend among the bears. Also, the bear that was rescued yesterday, was released in the Neora Valley National Park (in Kalimpong district) on Saturday morning,” Jakhar said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-82
29-11-2021||West Bengal||Authorities chalk out plan to improve Gajoldoba amenities||The Gajoldoba Development Authority (GDA) has drawn up a plan to develop amenities at “Bhorer Alo,” the mega tourism hub at Gajoldoba in the Rajganj block of Jalpaiguri district, and taken initiatives to ensure the safety of hundreds of visitors who take boat rides in the adjoining Teesta river and its canal. To execute the plan, the authority plans to use resources of the Jalpaiguri district administration and engage local self-help groups. In 2018, chief minister Mamata Banerjee had announced the formation of the authority and a notification was issued in 2019 in this regard by the state government. “After constituting the authority, the state had allocated Rs 14 crore for the creation of certain ancillary facilities on the site which has been drawing huge crowds these days. However, the fund has not been sanctioned so far. We believe this is because the state is into an austerity drive,” said a source. Jalpaiguri district magistrate Moumita Godara Basu, who is the chairperson of the authority, sent a proposal to the state government a few days ago, saying the GDA intended to carry out certain works on the site. “Gajoldoba has quickly emerged as an important and popular tourist destination in north Bengal. We need to have public toilets on the site. Also, it is an eco-friendly zone and there is a bird sanctuary nearby. To keep the area pollution-free, the GDA will declare it as a plastic-free zone. We can engage local self-help groups for campaigns and other related works,” said Basu. She said a considerable section of tourists took boat rides on the Teesta river and its canal, located on the left bank and next to the tourism hub. “We need to train the boatmen and introduce life jackets for every person who takes a ride. Some boats need repairs as well. All these can be done by helping the boatmen get finances from banks. There is also a plan to open stalls of self-help groups where different items can be sold to visitors,” the district magistrate added. Although the authority was constituted two years back – four panchayats, two each in Rajganj and Malbazar blocks of Jalpaiguri district, are within the jurisdiction of the authority, it is yet to get an office on the site. “We have to hold meetings at the DM’s office in Jalpaiguri or at the irrigation department’s bungalow in Gajoldoba. It is true that an office is necessary. However, we are not ready to sit back till the office is set up and employees are recruited,” said Rajganj Trinamul MLA Khageswar Roy, who is the vice-chairman of the GDA. He said the GDA had submitted a set of proposals to the state government in January last year for funds. “The funds were sought for an office building and improvement of a number of roads and culverts which are within the authority’s jurisdiction. Also, proposals were submitted for landscaping of certain stretches and installation of street lights and a welcome gate,” the MLA said. The funds haven’t been sanctioned.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-82
29-11-2021||West Bengal||Cannabis worth Rs 7.5 lakh seized, two arrested in Siliguri||Police seized over one quintal of cannabis from a truck in Matigara here on Saturday night and arrested two persons in this connection. Police sources said the special operation group of the Siliguri Metropolitan Police and a team of Matigara police seized 103 kilos of cannabis from Paribahan Nagar located in Matigara block on the northwestern parts of Siliguri. “A truck that had come from Assam was searched and altogether, 103 kilos of cannabis was seized from the vehicle. We have found out that the narcotics was loaded somewhere in Assam and was on its way to Uttar Pradesh,” said a police officer. The estimated price of the seized cannabis is around Rs 7.5 lakh, sources said. Two persons identified as Sohar Ali and M. Hussain have been arrested in this connection. Also, the police have seized country liquor and intoxicants from different locations of Siliguri on Saturday. In one of these incidents, a team of Pradhannagar police nabbed Amarendra Kumar Sinha alias Bittu from near  SNT bus stand for allegedly trying to sell cough syrups illegally. In ward 44 of Siliguri, the Bhaktinagar police arrested Kanai Das and seized 41 ampoules of sedative injections — used as intoxicants. An eatery owner Laxman Karmakar was arrested from Second Mile area of Siliguri for allegedly illegally selling country made liquor. Eleven litres of liquor had been seized from the eatery, sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-82
29-11-2021||West Bengal||First health unit comes up in Buxa hills after 75 years||For the first time since Independence, a three-bedded health unit was opened at the Buxa hills near the historical Buxa fort of Alipurduar district on Saturday. The unit will benefit around 3,000 people who dwell in 13 hilly hamlets of Buxa where they can receive primary treatment from now. The Buxa hill is located under Kalchini Block of Alipurduar district, around 45km from the district headquarter. Previously, the residents living in these hamlets had to travel around 40km to reach Latabari, the nearest block health centre or around 45km to reach the district hospital in Alipurduar for treatment. On their way, they had to carry the patient in bamboo made stretchers for around five kilometres by foot through the hilly terrains to reach the zero point from where the patient would travel in an ambulance or other vehicle. On Saturday, Surendra Kumar Meena, the district magistrate of Alipurduar, trekked to the Buxa Fort area with other administrative officials and inaugurated the health unit. “The unit has become functional from today (Sunday). It will cater to 13 villages and will have an ASHA (Accredited Social Health Activist) and two ANMs (Auxiliary Nursing Midwifery). In due course, the unit will be upgraded to a health centre,” said Meena. At the unit, an air-conditioning machine has been installed along with oxygen cylinders. An inventory of medicines and some surgical items have also been put at the facility. “There are three beds at the unit now. Pregnant ladies will get medical attention here. Also, it will serve as a vaccination centre, both for adults and children. The health department will be in touch with the health staff here and in case of emergency, an ambulance will be sent to the zero point immediately. Doctors from the district hospital will visit the unit once a week,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-82
29-11-2021||West Bengal||Bengal reports 715 new Covid cases, 719 recoveries||Bengal on Sunday reported 715 new Covid-19 infections, 719 recoveries and a dozen deaths, resulting in a drop by 16 in its total of active cases to 7,804. Sunday marked 30 days of a drop in that total in the past 64 days since Bengal snapped out of a 97-day streak of constant fall in the total of active cases ahead of the Puja season on September 26. In these 64 days, the state recorded a rise in its total of active cases for 33 days, and a net rise of 130 in that total, from 7,674. A minister said the number of new infections reported on Sunday is indicative of people that got infected in the November 19 (six days after Jagaddhatri Puja) to November 23 window. Calcutta reported 198 new infections and North 24-Parganas 130, the only two districts in the state with a three-digit figure of new cases found. Eighteen Bengal districts reported zero deaths. Calcutta reported three, while North 24-Parganas reported five.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-82
29-11-2021||West Bengal||BJP sweep in Tripura fails to unite party unit in Bengal||The Bengal BJP, which was yet to produce its list of candidates for the Calcutta civic polls, celebrated the defeat of the Trinamul Congress in the Tripura urban body elections, prompting criticism from even sections within the saffron camp here. Several senior leaders of the BJP in Bengal — on the condition of anonymity — expressed “shock” and “disgust” at the “audacity” of the people in charge of the state unit, which has been unable to stem the rot in the party since the Assembly election debacle. “Have they lost it? Celebrating Tripura results here, that too of civic polls… really? These same people will go into hiding for days, or make excuses, when we bite the dust in the Calcutta civic polls next month…. This hollow sense of pride and unwillingness to learn from mistakes is what is destroying the party in this state,” said a senior state unit leader. Several BJP leaders in the state said the state headquarters of the party on 6 Muralidhar Sen Lane has not been in such a celebratory mood after May 2, when Trinamul swept the election, shattering the saffron camp’s chest-thumping assertions of the “certainty” of a 200-plus victory in the 294-seat Bengal Assembly. In the seven by-polls to Assembly seats that have taken place since, the BJP’s vote share nose-dived further and it managed to win zero. Party leaders in favour of the celebrations said it was important to establish in Bengal that the claims Trinamul has been making about becoming a formidable force in Tripura were a lie. Nandigram MLA Suvendu Adhikari, leader of the Opposition in the Assembly, and national vice-president Dilip Ghosh lauded the BJP’s Tripura chief minister Biplab Deb for the win. A state BJP functionary, however, said: “This proves that our leaders lack political acumen. How will these optics help at all? Do they think that if they showcase Trinamul’s defeat in Tripura, the BJP will gain ground here?” “In the Calcutta civic area, we won barely 29 per cent of the votes, while Trinamul won 60 per cent. That was in the summer, when the results were not known to the electorate. Now, in the wake of that massive majority for Mamata Banerjee, are we even going to manage 15 per cent?” he asked. On May 2, both major offices of BJP in the city wore a deserted look, with a handful of journalists and policemen outside them. An old-timer of the BJP wondered – tongue firmly in cheek – whether the aabir (coloured powder) used for Sunday’s celebrations was bought for May 2 and had been lying unused since. “Can we start properly focusing on the party in Bengal, please? Today, they met to finalise the list of candidates for the CMC polls, and none of the old-timers or others who have genuine knowledge about Calcutta’s demography was invited,” said a state vice-president. Trinamul took a dig at BJP over the celebrations. “They will never be able to celebrate a win in Bengal. Hence, they are celebrating rigged elections in Tripura. Let them know that Trinamul has managed to harness 20 per cent of the votes, despite the vitiated poll, in Tripura in just three months. The BJP took more than 25 years to get to that level in Bengal,” said Trinamul’s state general-secretary Kunal Ghosh. The BJP’s state chief spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya said: “Trinamul was showcasing Tripura’s civic polls in such a manner as though it was the beginning of their winning the entire country. The result is clear. Our workers here are spontaneously celebrating the win in Tripura. It is natural.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-82
29-11-2021||West Bengal||Mangrove planting brings award to teacher in Sunderbans ||Umashankar Mondal, 40, had earned the moniker of “mangrove man” among residents of the Sunderbans a long time ago for his unrelenting seedling planting work towards the sustenance and rejuvenation of the mangroves. Mondal was chosen for the World Wildlife Fund’s Dr Rimington Award this year for his efforts aiding the world’s largest tiger reserve. The award has been presented by the WWF since 2018 to recognise outstanding contributors to the conservation of tigers. “It is a very prestigious award and we are really proud of Umashankar. Such recognition will help encourage others to come forward to preserve tigers in the Sundarbans,” said Anamitra Anurag Danda, the director of the WWF’s Sunderban Reserve. Umashankar, who is a resident of Chargheri village of Satjelia island of South 24-Parganas’ Gosaba, is a geography teacher at a Murshidabad high school. After witnessing Cyclone Aila in 2009, he took the initiative to plant mangroves and has planted over 6.5 lakh saplings with the help of 135 associates on the embankments of the rivers of two islands, Gosaba and Satjelia. Local residents say they have grown to consider the tree cover as a “shield” for their lives that was affirmed during Cyclone Amphan last year and Cyclone Yaas this year. The Telegraph had reported on Mandal in 2009 when he had started planting mangroves. plant. Mandal said: “I have no words to thank the WWF, who searched out and recognised my contribution. I never thought that my work would be appreciated by a global platform. It puts more responsibility on me. I thank those people who helped me plant so many mangroves in this 12-year-long drive.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-82
29-11-2021||West Bengal||Accident kills 17 mourners in Hanshkhali, ex-gratia announced ||Seventeen people, including a six-year-old child, were killed on Sunday morning when the mini-truck they were travelling in to a crematorium collided with a truck in Nadia’s Hanshkhali. The tragedy occurred on the Bogula-Krishnagar Road shortly after midnight. It injured 15 people, all of whom are residents of Parmadan village in North 24-Parganas’s Bagdah. “The accident occurred in the Phulbari-Shimultala area of Hanshkhali and involved a group of 32 people who were going to perform the last rites for Shib Rani Muhuri, 92, a native of Parmadan, who had died at her daughter’s home in Gopalnagar,” said a police officer. Sources said the deceased included 10 members of the Muhuri family, who along with neighbours had left Bagda for the Nabadwip crematorium with Muhuri’s body around 11.30pm, shortly after the hearse had arrived in Parmadan. President Ram Nath Kovind, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union home minister Amit Shah and Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee condoled the deaths in statements issued on Twitter. The Centre and the state government each announced an ex-gratia of Rs 2 lakh for the next of kin of all deceased people. Residents of Hanshkhali’s Phulbari reportedly woke up to the “crushing sound” of the collision around 1am and came out of their homes to the “sight of bodies” strewn across the crash site. Police rushed the victims to Bogula rural hospital, from where most were immediately transferred to Nadia district hospital in Krishnagar. At Krishnagar, 13 victims were declared dead on arrival, whereas four others succumbed to injuries after their admission. The deceased included seven women. The police could not immediately ascertain the cause of the accident in the apparent absence of eyewitnesses. Later on Sunday, the police said it appeared prima facie that the driver of the mini-truck had failed to notice the truck laden with stone chips amid possible fog and had been driving at a high speed himself. The driver of the mini-truck was among those who died in the accident. The police detained the driver of the stone-chip truck for interrogation. That vehicle was reportedly heading towards Bagda to deliver the consignment. Ranaghat superintendent of police Sayak Das said: “It is not clear how the accident occurred. But it appears the mini-truck was at a very high speed and the impact of the collision was very strong.” Another cop said: “The driver has been killed in the accident. We are waiting for his autopsy report to arrive at a possible conclusion for the reason behind the accident.” Das and DIG Murshidabad range Sunil Kumar Choudhary visited the accident spot, where the local people alleged police inaction regarding reckless driving and parking of trucks that often caused accidents. Lying in a hospital bed in Krishnagar, Swapan Muhuri, 53, son of Rani Muhuri, said: “We had planned to take my mother to Nabadwip for the last rites according to her wishes. The incoming truck seemed to be speeding, and that is the last thing I saw.” “I regained consciousness in Krishnagar and heard that 10 members of our family died in the accident, along with seven others,” he added. Relatives of the victims have alleged negligence in the treatment of victims at the district hospital. Bancharam Biswas, a resident of Bagda, said: “The injured persons arrived at the Krishnagar hospital around 1.45am. They were left unattended for about five hours.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-82
29-11-2021||West Bengal||Ganga erosion hits education in Malda, students miss classes ||Acute erosion by the Ganga that has robbed hundreds of families in Kaliachak 3 block in Malda off the roofs has taken away the right of over 600 school students to attend their classes. State-aided schools had started physical classes for students studying from Class IX to Class XII on November 16. But the authorities of Chamagram high school are yet to start physical classes for their students. Families who lost their homes to the erosion are staying at the school. Since June, the Ganga had been gobbling up chunks of agricultural land in different locations of the block. This has left hundreds of families homeless. Around 120 families — over 500 people — have been staying at the school building ever since they have lost their houses, agricultural land and other belongings. According to local sources, the school has 18 rooms, 16 of which are used as classrooms. They have said two to three families share a room. “Along with them, another 70 families are staying in the corridor and at other places of the building. It is obvious that we are in a fix. On one hand, they have nowhere to go. On the other hand, we could not resume classes according to the instructions of the state education department,” headmaster Shaktipada Sarkar said. Altogether, there are 1,600 students, 600 of whom are in classes IX, X, XI and XII. Sarkar said students and teachers visited the school every day to know when the classes would start. “We do not have specific answer for them. We have already taken up the matter with the block administration and are waiting for their intervention,” the headmaster added. Some residents of the area have said in the current situation, there are two alternatives. Either the families have to be shifted to some other place like flood shelters or community halls or the students have to be sent to some other school nearby so that they can attend physical classes. “There is, however, a problem as a number of students come from far-flung places and if they are asked to go to another school, the distance is an issue and so is the accommodation in classrooms as physical distancing has to be maintained because the Covid-19 pandemic is not yet over,” said a senior teacher. The block administration, too, is concerned over the situation and is searching for a plot where they can build temporary huts for the homeless families. “We are aware of the situation and desperately searching for an alternative accommodation for the erosion victims. Once they are shifted, classes can resume at the school,” Kaliachak 3 block development officer Mamun Aktar said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-82
