30-11-2021||West Bengal||Didi meets Shiv Sena leaders Aaditya Thackeray, Sanjay Raut||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday met Shiv Sena leaders Aaditya Thackeray and Sanjay Raut here. The meeting was seen as an outreach to fellow opposition leaders by the Trinamool Congress supremo. Mamata, on a visit to Maharashtra, was scheduled to meet Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray earlier, but as he is unwell, she met his son and minister Aaditya Thackeray, sources said. Aaditya also gave her a copy of a coffee- table book of his father's photographs, sources added. Earlier in the day, Mamata visited the famous Siddhi Vinayak temple here. The West Bengal Chief Minister also paid her respects at the memorial of police constable Tukaram Ombale who died fighting terrorists during the 2008 Mumbai terror attack. Mamata is also scheduled to meet NCP president Sharad Pawar. Her meeting with opposition leaders comes amid a strain in the ties between the TMC and Congress. After its landslide victory in West Bengal earlier this year, the TMC has inducted several Congress leaders in its fold. Recently, 12 out of 17 Congress MLAs in Meghalaya defected to the TMC, making it the principal opposition party.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-80
30-11-2021||West Bengal||Lost as ever, Bengal Congress battles rift within over civic poll nominees||Poll-bound Uttar Pradesh saw the induction of 17.50 lakh new members into the Congress within three days of the launch of the membership drive. Around 1,009 km away in Calcutta where 120 years ago a young lawyer from South Africa had first appeared on the Congress platform, none of the state leaders are aware how many new members have been inducted since the membership drive was launched by Bengal Congress president Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury on November 1. “I am not sure. Probably none. Ask someone else,” said a Congress leader from central Calcutta. It is clear state Congress leaders do not see eye-to-eye. Yes, they are all in the party, still. But none seem to be able to work with each other. Days before the Congress membership drive in Bengal, a senior leader said during a private conversation, "Had I been the Bengal Congress president, I would have sat outside Sealdah station (to recruit passengers coming to Calcutta)." However, he would not reply what was stopping him from taking the initiative on his own now. The truth is Bengal Congress leaders have preferred to stay in their comfort zone over creating a pan-Bengal base, something that Mamata Banerjee achieved. The handful of MPs remaining in the Bengal Congress are camping in Delhi as the winter session of Parliament is on. For the first ever, the Congress is without an MLA in Bengal, a dubious distinction that it shares with once-bitter-foe-turned friend, the mainstream Left. Bidhan Bhawan, the headquarters of the Congress's Bengal unit, which is usually derelict has been busy otherwise with a familiar phenomenon playing on just outside the premises on Central Calcutta’s Lalmohan Bhattacharjee road: protests by disgruntled Congress workers over distribution of tickets. Protests, streetfights, ransacking offices are not alien to Bengal Congressmen. That there are multiple contenders from the same ward has surprised even most hardboiled Congress leaders who have stayed put in the party for reasons defying logic as well offers and threats from the ruling Trinamul. In this season of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation, the Congress camp has been in complete disarray. The observers’ committee is headed by Nepal Mahato. A committed Congressman, Mahato has been a four-time MLA from Purulia’s Jhalda and later Baghmundi. His appointment did raise eyebrows. “Does Nepal Mahato know the wards of Calcutta? Does he know any of the workers here? Couldn’t the state leadership find anyone in Calcutta? At least Pradip Bhattacharya is there,” says a Congress leader. The Palm Avenue resident and neighbour of former Bengal chief minister Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee, the 76-years Pradip Bhattacharya has not been included in either of the committees. The campaign committee for CMC polls is headed by Mushtaq Alam, a former MLA from Malda, and also includes Monalisa Banerjee, contesting from ward 49 on a Trinamul ticket. Worse still for the grand old party, Bengal unit president Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, who has barely spent six hours in all these months at Bidhan Bhavan since the disastrous Assembly elections, does not appear to be listening to anyone, not even himself. On March 8, 2020 before the Covid pandemic forestalled the civic polls in Bengal, Chowdhury wrote a letter to then party president in Bengal, the late Somen Mitra with a list 15 names, nine from Calcutta and six from Howrah recommending their candidature for the civic polls which were due since last year. “I am sending few names they are doing hard work in their respective area to rejuvenate out party. But I hope (sic), now days that are quite neglected. I never said you anything after 2018 but it is 2020, after 3 years, I am sending you the names please do the needful.” Chowdhury addressed the letter to “Dear Sh Soumen da.” After Mitra’s untimely death last year, the Congress high command decided to hand over the reins to Chowdhury again. While finalising the list for the CMC candidates, Chowdhury seems to not remember the letter he wrote to Mitra. Among the nine names that Chowdhury had recommended, only five—Shahina Javed (ward 28), Wahida Khatun (ward 46), Soumen Paul (ward 76), Trina Mukherjee (Ward 71) and Shampa Ghosh (ward 93) --- made the cut. Chowdhury himself had recommended the name of Imran Khan for ward 44. But the ticket went to one Zahid Anwar. On Monday, Khan’s supporters held a demonstration outside Bidhan Bhawan. “Had the Youth Congress president, Shadab Khan, been made the candidate under the YC quota there would have been no trouble,” said a Congress leader. In ward 95, Chowdhury had recommended Subir Chowdhury in March 2020. When the list of candidates was announced, Rabindranath Ghosh was nominated. In the third list Ghosh has been replaced by Tarun Guha Thakurta. So far, the Congress has announced candidates for around 125 wards. There is no clarity whether more names will be announced or not. The deadline for filing nominations ends on Wednesday. The Left Front which was the first to publish its list of candidates has left around 16 seats for the Congress, Indian Secular Front and other likeminded parties and individuals who can defeat both the Trinamul and the BJP in the December 19 polls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-80
30-11-2021||West Bengal||Mamata on two-day trip to Mumbai, to address industrialists, meet Sharad Pawar||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee left on a two-day tour of Mumbai on Tuesday afternoon from Kolkata. During her visit, Banerjee said she will meet NCP chief Sharad Pawar and Maharashtra minister Aditya Thackeray, besides attending a host of events, including an entrepreneur's conference. The chief minister is scheduled to address industrialists at the conference organised by YPO (Young President's Organisation) -- a US-based global leadership community. Banerjee said she would invite the attending industrialists to the Bengal Global Business Summit, which will be held in April next year, and urge them to invest in West Bengal. "Bengal is the destination for new industries and investments," she said. The business summit will be organised by the West Bengal government with COVID-19 safety precautions to attract much-needed investments, she said. "The economy, the country and life cannot to a standstill out of fear of the pandemic." Banerjee, whose TMC is spreading its wings in Goa to make its presence felt in states outside West Bengal as the most potent force against the BJP, said she will be meeting Pawar, one of the senior-most opposition leaders in the country. She said that she wanted to visit Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray who is recuperating from surgery, but that would not be possible owing to his doctor's advice of being in isolation. "Uddhav Thackeray's son Aditya will come to meet me at the hotel where I will be staying," Banerjee told reporters at the Kolkata airport. She will also be going to the Police Memorial to pay respect to the personnel who lost their lives in the 26/11 attacks, and also visit the Siddhivinayak Temple. Banerjee said that she will meet eminent personalities at a programme, which is being organised by Javed Akhtar and Sudheendra Kulkarni. The chief minister said that during her trip she has no plans to meet Bollywood superstar Shahrukh Khan, who was earlier appointed West Bengal's brand ambassador. On the pandemic situation, Banerjee said that her government is taking steps to increase awareness among people about the new Omicron variant.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-80
30-11-2021||West Bengal||Spurned suitor slashes college girl with blade in Alipurduar ||A second-year college girl in Alipurduar district was attacked and slashed severely with a blade by one of her batch mates on Monday after she refused his advances. The girl is hospitalised. Police have arrested the youth. According to sources, the girl and a friend was walking towards the college gates on Monday afternoon when her batch mate Fazaddin Hossain caught her by her hair, took out a blade, slashed her many times and managed to flee on a two-wheeler. Police said the youth is  from Ghokshadanga, Cooch Behar. He was nabbed in the evening. He confessed his proposal was rejected by the girl, prompting his act, said Bholanath Pandey, SP, Alipurduar. The girl, hospital sources said, has received multiple stitches. Last Wednesday, a schoolgirl in Alipurduar was attacked by a dagger and killed by a youth in her neighbourhood for not agreeing to his proposal. “We are perturbed over such incidents. After the pandemic, educational institutions have just opened and if girls are attacked, parents will be extremely worried,” said Hirendranath Bhattacharjee, the principal of Falakata College, Alipurduar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-81
30-11-2021||West Bengal||Padma Shri winner stops child marriage in Malda||Social worker Kamali Soren, who received the Padma Shri this year, went to Habibpur in Malda district to stop the wedding of an underage girl on Sunday evening. She also assured the girl’s parents that she would bear the 14-year-old’s educational and other expenses till she was eligible for marriage. The district social welfare department is probing the case. Sources said the 14-year-old Class VIII student of Baijail, a locality in Habibpur, refused to marry at an early age and wanted to continue  with her studies. When she failed to convince her parents, the girl desperately sought help from her teachers over phone and urged them to do whatever was needed to stop her wedding. The teachers held a virtual meeting and informedthe district Childline (helpline). Soren said she came to know about the issue from other sources and rushed to the girl’s house before anyone else turned up. She spoke with her parents and explained it was illegal to get a girl aged below 18 married off. When parents cited poverty as their compulsion, Soren assured them of regular monetary help. “I requested the parents to cancel the marriage... When I heard about the family’s financial distress, I offered to pay Rs 2,000  a month for her education and other expenses. Thankfully, the parents realised their mistake and called off the marriage,” Soren said. Mrityunjay Haldar, her teacher, said she was a serious student. The elated girl said her parents had told her after Soren’s intervention that she could study further and there was no marriage on the cards for her now. “I want to study. Girls are excelling in all fields nowadays. If I am allowed to study, I will also be financially independent,” she said. Kalidas Bhattacharya, Malda district social welfare officer, said the department would enquire if the girl’s family was receiving all the benefits of the social welfare schemes run by the state government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-81
30-11-2021||West Bengal||Bimal Gurung’s Calcutta trip raises eyebrows in Darjeeling||Bimal Gurung announced just last month from Darjeeling hills that he would not contest the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA) elections, a body he had accepted to accelerate development in the hills in 2012, but is in Calcutta currently to try and make his presence felt. On Monday, the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha chief and his Calcutta delegation met Molay Ghatak, state PWD minister and raised the issue of an alternative route to NH10, the arterial route not just to Sikkim but also to Bengal’s Kalimpong district. According to a Gorkha Janmukti Morcha source, the delegation also met minority affairs minister Ghulam Rabbani to flag off issues concerning minorities in Darjeeling. “Rabbani was in Darjeeling just a week back but Gurung’s team had to visit Calcutta to raise issues with him,” a well-informed source said. On November 27, Team Bimal Gurung had met labour minister Becharam Manna and on November 26 food and civil supplies minister Ratin Ghosh. On November 25, he met Partha Chatterjee, secretary general, Trinamul. During their meeting with Chatterjee, the hill delegation stated “the election to GTA and the proposed permanent political solution being deeply co-related subjects, the election to GTA at this stage may create confusion among people in general.” The Morcha wants election to this region should be held to a “new government on completion of the proposed political solution” but early panchayat polls. Elections to panchayats were last held in the hills in 2000. The GTA elections are due since 2017. Both the BJP and Trinamul have assured a “permanent political solution” for the hills but have not defined it. “If Gurung is only interested in working for a permanent political solution and not the GTA as claimed by him, why is he raising development issues in Calcutta instead of clarifying what he wants under the so-called permanent political solution,” said a leader opposed to Gurung in the hills. The hill leader did not want to disclose his identity as he is not authorised by his party to speak to the media. However, the leader’s argument is gathering traction in the hills. Last Friday, Roshan Giri, general secretary of Gurung’s party, Gorkha Janmukti Morcha, told this newspaper that they were looking at meeting chief minister Mamata Banerjee. Gurung had dumped BJP in 2020, after a decade-old association in 2020, and joined hands with Trinamul, but there are no records of the Gurung and Mamata meeting publicly since then. Giri’s statement and the day-to-day development is a clear indication that Gurung is caught in a crossroads between “development” and “taking part in GTA elections”, said an observer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-81
30-11-2021||West Bengal||Once bitten, twice shy: BJP keeps out turncoats from its candidate list||Bengal BJP was finally able on Monday to announce its list of 144 candidates for the Calcutta civic polls, and the names suggested the party’s attempts at course correction following the harsh lessons of the Assembly polls. The BJP this time reposed faith mostly in old-timers and loyalists, instead of on turncoats from other parties. The conspicuous absence of turncoats from the nominee list marked a major shift from its strategy followed till the Assembly election, in which the BJP had fielded over 140 turncoats for the 294-seat House. The move had not only infuriated numerous sections within the party but also had largely been rejected by the electorate. Most turncoats were trounced in the elections. Sources in the BJP said it was a conscious decision to exclude turncoats and prevent further dissent in the already fragile party organisation. “We have been able to field our workers from the grassroots as candidates (for Calcutta civic polls),” state vice-president and in-charge of the Calcutta civic poll management committee Pratap Banerjee said at a news meet before announcing the names. “There is no such case,” he said when asked about turncoats Several party leaders said later the Calcutta list was a crucial olive branch to countless workers and leaders bitter over the BJP’s “surrender” to Trinamul turncoats earlier. “I’m happy with this list. Even if we don’t win, we will give a good fight, because deserving candidates have been fielded,” said a youth wing leader who had criticised the party’s decision to distribute tickets among turncoats in the Assembly polls. The “good fight”, however, may remain a pipe dream for the party that got zero Assembly seats from Calcutta and its neighbourhood this summer, and was able to secure barely 29 per cent of votes in the area under CMC, compared to Trinamul’s 60-odd per cent. Trinamul is going into the polls with leads in 134 of the 144 wards. The BJP has leads in nine wards. Another reason why the party gave turncoats a pass is their tendency to rush back to Trinamul.  A senior state unit functionary of the BJP said at least two Trinamul leaders, including the son of a former MLA, got in touch with them for tickets after being denied by Mamata this time but “were not entertained”. Out of the 144 BJP candidates, 48 are below 40 years of age and more than 50 are women. Nine of the BJP’s candidates belong to a minority community. Kamini Tiwari, wife of gangster Gopal Tiwari, has been fielded as BJP candidate for ward 24. Her husband, then purportedly owing allegiance to Trinamul,was arrested in 2015 for shooting at a cop on the day of the Calcutta civic polls, and acquitted four years later. The BJP retained three of its winning candidates. Seven BJP candidates won the civic polls in 2015. Two defected to Trinamul and one died in a road accident. Another winning candidate had to be replaced since the ward is now reserved for women. BJP state headquarters 6 Muralidhar Sen Lane saw at least three protests from thwarted aspirants on Monday, but muted compared to protests after the list was out for last Calcutta civic polls in 2015. The BJP also demanded central forces for the polls. Its state chief Sukanta Majumdar wrote to the state election commission demanding deployment of central forces.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-81
30-11-2021||West Bengal||HC worry for Mamata’s Nandigram poll agent||A division bench of Calcutta High Court headed by Justice Debangsu Basak on Monday did away with a prior order restraining the CBI from taking coercive action against Sheikh Sufiyan, Mamata Banerjee’s election agent in Nandigram in the Assembly polls this summer. The bench also rejected his anticipatory bail petition. Sufiyan fears arrest in connection with an alleged post-poll results clash. According to the CBI’s counsel, his client had definite information that Sufiyan was involved in the alleged clash and he should not get anticipatory bail, as being an influential person he might tamper with evidence.Sufiyan was among those named in a complaint by the family of Debabrata Maiti, a BJP supporter allegedly injured by Trinamul-backed goons on May 3, a after the election results in Nandigram’s Chillogram. Maiti died of his injuries in a hospital on May 13.Sufiyan has the option to challenge the order in the Supreme Court.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-81
30-11-2021||West Bengal|| Mamata Banerjee government woos Deocha with water, roads||The Mamata Banerjee government has initiated a set of development projects, including roads, water supply and handlooms, worth around Rs 100 crore in areas of the proposed Deocha-Pachami coal mine project, in a bid to woo the region’s tribal people who have expressed their resentment over the lack of such infrastructure. Officials said the initiatives were taken after proposals from residents of various areas of the proposed coal mine project. “There were demands for roads, water projects and other infrastructure from the tribal people and their representatives. Besides over 20 roads and four water projects, we will also open a hand-weaving unit for the manufacture of traditional tribal attire,” said Birbhum district magistrate Bidhan Ray. Sources said Birbhum zilla parishad has been assigned to make 21 roads in areas under the coal mine project. The parishad has sanctioned around Rs 30 crore for roads, and work on two has begun. Four major roads from NH14 would be constructed to connect villages of coal mine areas such as Harinsingha, Hatgachha and Dewanganj. “All the new roads will fulfill the demands of the local people and meet the needs of the government as well, as road link is crucial to the project. Some tribal leaders told us they want to be rehabilitated near coal mine project areas. So, these roads will help us connect better with rehabilitation colonies,” said a senior government official. Four water projects have been planned in Hatgachha, Puratangram and Deocha. Under the water projects, a pump would be set up in Dwarka river and piped water would be supplied to 18 local tribal hamlets. “The four water projects will cost around Rs 50 crore in all,” said a senior official, adding that people would get water at home. Senior officials said as the project is a cherished dream of the chief minister, who announced the rehabilitation package and specifically said the land in Deocha-Pachami would not be acquired like in Singur during the Left regime, the state government has been focusing on winning hearts. “We are heeding every demand coming to us from various corners and trying to fulfill those from the government’s end. We will sit with villagers, and our officials may visit every doorstep to explain how the government cares about them before we start any work,” said DM Ray. Officials said that the package announced by Mamata is “very lucrative”, with the price for land offered at thrice the market rates, and a state government job for a member of each affected family. “In a few places, outsiders have been trying to provoke villagers, but no refusal has directly come to us. Most people said they would like to have some things added to the package,” said a senior official. The state government has decided to start mining in its own land, but will wait for a month to get more responses from the people of the locality. In recent times, the BJP and some other platforms have started getting in touch with some tribal people. On November 25, around 150 villagers of Harinsingha sat in a meeting headed by village chief Joseph Marandi, and decisively vowed against giving land. However, within 24 hours, the village chief changed his statement and promised to sit for dialogue, after a meeting with leaders of Trinamul and tribal outfit Birbhum Adivasi Gaonta. “We had proposed around a dozen roads and four water projects based on demands of the villagers. We welcome these initiatives,” said Rabin Soren, secretary of the tribal outfit.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-81
30-11-2021||West Bengal||Focusing on 2024 LS polls, Mamata to chart Trinamul course||The Trinamul Congress’s top-tier leadership on Monday entrusted Mamata Banerjee with the responsibility of making necessary changes to the constitution of the party and lay down the roadmap for growth beyond Bengal’s borders ahead of the 2024 Lok Sabha election. The 21-member working committee of the party met at Mamata’s Kalighat residence in the evening. “The meeting was historic. Several things emerged very clearly from it. First and foremost, the All India Trinamul Congress will now take every step necessary to become a national force so that it is able to directly take on the BJP,” Pavan Varma, former JDU national general-secretary who had joined Trinamul recently, said after the meeting. “For that, whatever necessary… if constitutional changes within the party are necessary, for instance. If the organisational structure of the party has to be changed. The changes that are to be made in view of strategy… for everything, the party unanimously entrusted Mamata Banerjeeji with the right to take all the steps,” said Varma, a former Indian Foreign Service officer, adding the situation across the nation now made it clear there needed to be an all-out national campaign against the BJP. Explaining why he described the meeting as “historic”, Varma said from this day forth, Trinamul’s nationwide identity would emerge conspicuously. “For that national campaign to have a flag-bearer, it is also clear that only Trinamul Congress can step up to the plate. In Mamata Banerjee’s leadership, that fight will be fought, and for that whatever step needs to be taken will be taken by our party,” added the former Rajya Sabha member from Bihar. Since appointment as Trinamul’s national general-secretary in June, Mamata’s political heir-apparent Abhishek Banerjee, along with poll strategist Prashant Kishor and his team, has been trying to carve out a national niche for the party, with attempts to find a toehold in states such as Tripura, Goa, Assam and Meghalaya, besides Haryana and Bihar. In most of these states, since the BJP’s fight is directly with the Congress, Trinamul has been facing criticism for allegedly working in favour of the saffron camp, on the basis of a secret entente between Mamata and Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Trinamul’s recent attacks against the Congress have further added fuel to that fire. On Monday, when asked if Trinamul’s approach towards the Congress featured in the closed-door discussions that featured nine speakers including the Bengal chief minister, no clear answer was given either by Varma or Derek O’Brien. “We are a growing party…. The basic structure, our DNA will not change…. But the constitution will change, for taking her (Mamata’s) message, her struggle to the rest of the nation,” said O’Brien, Trinamul’s leader in the Rajya Sabha, adding that the next time the working committee meets, it would take place in Delhi. The 21-member working committee, said O’Brien, would be expanded for inclusion of members from outside Bengal. “The way Bengal defeated the BJP, in Mamatadi’s leadership in 2021, it is clear now that Bengal will, similarly, show the way for the entire nation to do that in 2024…. Mamatadi is the strongest, the most credible and the most experienced to defeat the BJP,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-81
30-11-2021||West Bengal||Hanskhali accident: Autopsy can’t confirm drink driving||A day after the mini-truck crash in Hanskhali claimed 17 lives, a team of Nadia District Hospital that did an autopsy on the driver failed to confirm he was drunk. Police probing the accident on Sunday indicated mini truck driver Prasenjit Biswas, 20, apparently failed to control the vehicle as he was speeding while being drunk. As the autopsy at the district hospital in Krishnagar failed to conclusively ascertain the presence of alcohol in his stomach, samples will be sent to the Forensic Science Laboratory in Calcutta. “It (the autopsy) is not clear enough. So we need further investigation. We are planning to send samples to the FSL. Visceral samples from stomach or intestine will also be sent for test,” an official of Nadia district health administration said. A senior official of Ranaghat police district said: “We are waiting for the blood alcohol report of the driver. But it appears it would take more time.” The owner of the mini-truck, Uttam Sarkar, 48, a resident of Gyarapota-Kamlapur in North 24 Parganas, ruled out that driver Prasenjit was drunk. Instead, he apprehended a “technical snag” in the vehicle that spiralled beyond control. “I knew Prasenjit from his childhood. He was a cleaner and later began driving. But I never found him drinking alcohol. He is like my son and I handed him over my vehicle to drive recently following problems in my eyesight,” said Sarkar. “My vehicle was 13 years old and I guess it developed a sudden technical snag which he failed to control while speeding. But I don’t believe he was drunk.” To ascertain any technical snag, a team of forensic experts from FSL will examine the mini truck on Tuesday in Hanskhali. The team will also visit the accident site and examine the stone-chip-laden truck that the mini truck had rammed, killing 17 persons headed to the Nabadwip crematorium. Police arrested Sudipta Ghosh, 27, driver of the stone-chip-laden truck for culpable homicide not amounting to murder, rash driving on public way and for causing grievous injury to people by negligence. Additional superintendent of Ranaghat police district Rupantar Sengupta said Ghosh was produced before the ACJM court in Ranaghat on Monday which ordered police custody for three days. “We will interrogate him on how the accident occurred,” the ASP said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-81
30-11-2021||West Bengal||Bengal reports 511 more Covid cases, 571 recoveries and 11 deaths||Bengal on Monday reported 511 new Covid-19 infections, 571 recoveries and 11 deaths, with a drop for the 10th consecutive day in its active cases, this time by 71. The state now has 7,733 active cases or Covid patients under treatment. A minister said new infections reported on Monday indicated those infected between November 20 and 24. Calcutta reported 163 new infections and was the sole districts with a three-digit figure of new cases found in a day. Calcutta reported three deaths, too, and North 24-Parganas four. Calcutta, North and South 24-Parganas, Howrah, Hooghly and Nadia accounted for 394 or 77.1 per cent of the new infections on Monday. Ten districts logged a single-digit figure of new infections. Seventeen districts reported zero deaths. The daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 2.11 per cent on Monday. The state’s recovery rate is 98.32 per cent, below the national rate of 98.34 per cent. The state’s mortality rate is 1.21 per cent, while that of the nation is 1.34 per cent. Bengal now has over 16.15 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was logged in March last year. The total includes more than 15.88 lakh recoveries and 19,473 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-81
