06 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Spell out decision on repeal of farm laws, protesters tell Centre||After four hours of discussion with Central Ministers on the 10th day of their ongoing protests on the borders of Delhi, farmer leaders ran out of patience. Refusing to speak any further, they went on a 25-minute “ maun vrat ” or silent protest. Holding up impromptu placards with a short scribbled message, “Yes or No?”, they demanded that the government declare whether it was willing to repeal the three contentious farm reform laws or not. Tomar for consultations According to farmer leaders present at Saturday’s meeting at Vigyan Bhavan, following the protest, Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar opted to buy more time for a response to their ultimatum, saying further consultations within the government were needed to present a concrete proposal. The next round of talks has been scheduled for December 9, a day after the proposed Bharat Bandh. Earlier in the day, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, along with the Home and Defence Ministers met with Mr. Tomar and Food and Railways Minister Piyush Goyal, who have been leading the talks. However, there were no fresh proposals presented at the meeting, with both sides simply reiterating their positions. Underlining the continued trust deficit, farm leaders again refused to eat food provided by the government at Vigyan Bhavan, preferring to bring in a meal from a local langar .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/farmers-set-ultimatum-on-repeal-of-agri-laws/article33261332.ece
06 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||UDF and LDF hold separate web rallies||Election messaging shifted decisively to online platforms on Saturday with the United Democratic Front (UDF) and the Left Democratic Front (LDF) organising separate web rallies to state their respective cases before the electorate. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, who inaugurated the LDF’s web rally, accused the Congress and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) of brokering a mutual assistance treaty to help each other overtly and covertly in the local body polls. The UDF and the BJP had fielded a profusion of Independent candidates to draw votes from both camps as part of their symbiotic relationship. He said the UDF had sought the support of the Jamaat-e-Islami. At the same time, it had engineered a clandestine understanding with the Sangh Parivar. Majority of the Muslims did not adhere to the world view of the Jamaat-e-Islami or the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh. Muslim voters The UDF’s attempt to court both outfits had caused revulsion in Muslim voters and the antipathy would reflect in the polls. Mr. Vijayan said the Congress and the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) had not said a word against the BJP or the policies of the Central government during the campaign. The Congress and the IUML had cheered the Centre’s use of federal law enforcement to unsettle the State government. He cited the government’s development record and succouring of the people during the COVID-19 crisis. CPI State secretary Kanam Rajendran said the BJP had used the Central law enforcement as a political tool to unsettle the LDF government. Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala said Mr. Vijayan was the epitome of corruption. The Chief Minister had desisted from campaigning in public out of fear of turning away voters from the LDF. The government was mired in criminality and corruption. Central agencies suspect the government of gold smuggling, money laundering and corruption in the implementation of mega projections and hiring of costly private consultancies. Mr. Chennithala said the government feared that more embarrassing facts would stumble out as the investigation progressed. The name of a top LDF leader and his association with gold smuggling case accused Swapna Suresh would emerge in the public domain soon. Former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy challenged the government’s development record. UDF convener M.M. Hassan and Communist Marxist Party leader C.P. John were among those who spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/udf-and-ldf-hold-separate-web-rallies/article33261491.ece
06 December 2020||Kolkata,||TMC, BJP spar over Duare Sarkar programme||The West Bengal government’s outreach programme Duare Sarkar (government at doorstep) has become a new flashpoint between the Trinamool Congress (TMC) and Bharatiya Janata party (BJP). TMC leader and State’s Minister for labour and law Moloy Ghatak said that in the first five days of the scheme being launched, about 16.53 lakh beneficiaries have been reached through the outreach programme. “The BJP hasn’t taken too well to the success of this scheme. Some of their leaders tried unsuccessfully to disrupt the scheme. Now they’ve resorted to inflammatory statements. None of them have come out in support of this programme. This shows they do not care about the people of Bengal,” a press statement issued by the party quoted Mr. Ghatak . The Minister described Duare Sarkar as a scheme to ensure that people avail the benefits of 11 State-run welfare schemes reaches people as a unique initiative of the TMC government. In a related development, factionalism within the TMC came to fore when minister for Consumer Affairs, Self Help Group and Self-Employment Sadhan Pande went to a Duare Sarkar camp in Kolkata and got into a heated altercation with another section of party leaders. Mr. Pande also reportedly pushed a television journalist at the venue. BJP State unit president Dilip Ghosh had described the Duare Sarkar programme as a “publicity exercise” by TMC ahead of the Assembly polls. BJP vice-president Jaiprakash Majumdar said instead of blaming the BJP for trouble over Duare Sarkar camps, the ruling party should look into infighting. Violence at Baraboni Meanwhile, violence erupted at Baraboni in Paschim Bardhaman over BJP’s Aay Noi Anyay (No more injustice), a counter campaign to the Duare Sarkar scheme. Several persons were injured in the violence, where crude bombs were hurled and bullets were fired. One BJP supporter also sustained bullet injury and is admitted to a private hospital. The BJP leadership accused the TMC supporters of attacking their workers. BJP leader Kailash Vijayvargiya visited the area and met the injured party supporters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tmc-bjp-spar-over-duare-sarkar-programme/article33261528.ece
06 December 2020||Mumbai,||4,922 new COVID-19 cases in Maharashtra||Maharashtra on Saturday reported 4,922 fresh COVID-19 cases, taking the total count of infections to 18,47,509, according to the State Health Department. With 95 more patients succumbing to the viral infection, the overall death toll in the State has mounted to 47,694, an official said. A total of 5,834 more patients were discharged after treatment during the day, taking the cumulative tally of recoveries to 17,15,884. Spike in Mumbai division The State now has as many as 82,849 active cases. The State has so far tested 1,12,05,118 samples. Mumbai division, which consists of Mumbai city and its satellite towns, reported 1,640 new cases, taking the total casel oad to 6,38,517. A total of 18,652 people have died so far in the region, the official said. The overall number of cases in the Pune division reached 4,61,199, while the tally of fatalities rose to 10,916, he said. Nashik division’s cumulative case count stands at 2,48,980 and death toll at 4,616, he said. Numbers rise Kolhapur division has so far reported 1,14,010 cases and 3,892 deaths, while the total number of cases in Aurangabad division stands at 68,965 and deaths at 1,746. Latur division has reported 75,953 cases until now and 2,300 fatalities. Akola division has 59,631 cases while 1,435 people have succumbed to the disease. Nagpur division has so far reported 1,78,073 infections and 4,018 fatalities, the official informed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/4922-new-covid-19-cases-in-maharashtra/article33262152.ece
06 December 2020||PALAKKAD,||Study finds repeated waves of Giant African Snail invasion in Kerala||A recent study on the Giant African Snail ( Achatina fulica ) in Asia and Africa has found that the dangerous pest species had multiple episodes of invasion in India, particularly Kerala, and that new snail populations continue to arrive in India from snail-infested countries across the world. The study observed that its population found in India had a higher genetic variety than those in the native African continent. “The higher genetic diversity found in our country indicates that the snail continues to have multiple invasions from different countries,” said Keerthy Vijayan, assistant professor, Kalasalingam Academy of Research and Education (KARE), Tamil Nadu. The study done along with researchers from the Environmental Agency, UAE; Nottingham University; and Natural History Museum, London; found the same genetic strains of the snail population in India and the UAE. “The populations in India and the UAE share the same haplotypes (a set of genes within an organism inherited together from a single parent). The snail could be introduced repeatedly back and forth in the UAE and India, considering material movement between the two countries,” said Dr. Keerthy. Study period Conducted at the Kerala Forest Research Institute (KFRI) with the support of the Kerala State Council for Science, Technology and Environment (KSCSTE) between 2016 and 2020, the study was published in the biological journal of the Linnean Society. According to Dr. Keerthy, the snail reached Kerala for the first time when a researcher brought them from Annamalai University, Tamil Nadu, and accidentally released them at Elapully in Palakkad in the early 1950s. Population spread The snail population spread rapidly in the State, spurred by two more waves of invasion in the 1970s and in 2005. The import of timber from two dozen snail-infested countries sped up their spread in Kerala. “In 2005, this snail was recorded only in Palakkad, Ernakulam and Pathanamthitta. But by 2020, it has spread to all districts except Idukki,” said Dr. Keerthy. One of the worst invasive species declared by the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN), the Giant African Snail is suspected to spread eosinophilic meningitis, septicaemia and peritonitis in humans. Many cases of eosinophilic meningitis were reported among children in Ernakulam and Thiruvananthapuram. Dr. Keerthy said controlling this snail would be difficult because of its repeated invasions. “What we need is a long-term strategy to control and eradicate this invasive species,” she told The Hindu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/study-finds-repeated-waves-of-giant-african-snail-invasion-in-kerala/article33262111.ece
06 December 2020||HUBBALLI,||Karnataka bandh: Life unaffected in districts of Bombay Karnataka||The call for a ‘Karnataka bandh’ by organisations, protesting against the setting up of a Maratha Development Corporation, received lukewarm response in majority of the districts in Bombay Karnataka region and life went on as usual. In almost all the districts, public transport was not affected and business and commercial establishments operated as usual. Barring those who had closed shops, out of fear of untoward incidents, most of the shopkeepers carried out their business as usual. The agitation by organisations was restricted to demonstrations in most places. At several places in the region including Dharwad, Hubballi, and Gadag, the police took various protestors into preventive custody after they tried to block roads and tried to close shops and commercial establishments forcefully. In Hubballi- Dharwad, the situation remained normal with public transport remaining unaffected and shops and commercial establishments functioning as usual. Autorickshaws plied normally. Although the public transport buses operated as usual, people did not come out initially and by noon it picked up. In Dharwad, protesters were taken into custody at Jubilee Circle after they tried to block road and similarly around 15 protestors were detained at Sangolli Rayanna Circle in Hubballi after they tried to close down the shops forcefully. As a precautionary measure, the police had made elaborate bandobast at vantage points and important junctions to prevent any untoward incident. In Gadag, protesters were prevented from closing down shops forcefully. At Mulagund Naka in Gadag, protesters were stopped and taken into custody when they tried to stop buses. Meanwhile despite police efforts to prevent them, the protestors managed to burn effigy of the former Union Minister Basanagouda Patil Yatnal for his derogatory statement against Kannada organisations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/karnataka-bandh-life-unaffected-in-districts-of-bombay-karnataka/article33261473.ece
06 December 2020||MYSURU,||Bandh call has little impact in Mysuru||The bandh called by Kannada organisations on Saturday against the constitution of Maratha Development Corporation evoked little response in the city. Business establishments were open both in the city and in residential areas and public transport system was not affected. Government offices and banks too remained open while buses plied as usual. Major commercial avenues in the city, including the D. Devaraj Urs Road, Ashoka Road, Dhanavantri Road, and Sayyaji Rao Road, among others, presented a normal look with shops and business establishments remaining open. The scenario was similar in residential areas as well. Incidentally, the Federation of Mysore Traders’ Association, comprising 13 organisations, had refused to back the bandh on the grounds that they were recovering from the pandemic-induced lockdown which began on March 25 and it was only now that there was a semblance of business turnover. The federation members, including the hotel owners’ association and Mysuru Travel Association, said they were in solidarity with the Kannada activists and the cause but argued that a bandh at this juncture when the economy was in tatters due to lockdown, could not be supported. Besides, it being a weekend, the hospitality sector whose fortunes had nosedived during the pandemic, was banking on the slow but perceptible revival in the tourism sector to shore up their turnover. The city and the region has begun to see a steady increase in tourist footfall and the hospitality sector has claimed that the turnover has reached 40 per cent. Supporting the bandh at this juncture would be a setback to the revival process and the stakeholders had expressed concern that the bookings could be cancelled and tourists would head to either Ooty in Tamil Nadu or Wayanad in Kerala which are close to Mysuru. However, the representatives of the federation drawn from tourism and hospitality sector participated in a dharna along with members of the Kannada groups and demanded that the decision to constitute the Maratha Development Corporation be dropped. Narayan Gowda, president of hotel owners’ association, said they were extending “moral support” to the Kannada organisations on the issue and joining the dharna though they opposed the bandh. Activists stage protest Members of the Mysuru Zilla Kannada Chaluvaligarara Sangha staged a demonstration at Gandhi Square in the city on Saturday, urging the government to drop its move to constitute the Maratha Development Corporation. The activists raised slogans against the government and said that the move to constitute the corporation had “hurt the sentiments” of the people of the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bandh-call-has-little-impact-in-mysuru/article33261581.ece
06 December 2020||LUCKNOW,||Seven held under anti-conversion law||After arresting a youth in Bareilly and filing cases in Mau and Muzaffarnagar, the Uttar Pradesh police have arrested seven persons in Sitapur district under the newly promulgated ordinance against unlawful conversions. The FIR was filed against eight persons at the Tambor police station in Sitapur, police said. SP (North Sitapur) Rajiv Dixit said the FIR (for kidnapping) was registered on November 24 on a complaint by the family of a woman, alleging that a local youth had lured her into eloping with him. On November 27, on the “basis of facts” in an application submitted by the girl’s family, relevant sections under the Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance, 2020 were added to the case, said Mr. Dixit. Seven of the eight accused have been arrested, said the officer. Sources said they included relatives of the youth. Efforts are on to arrest the youth and locate the woman, said police. Seven police teams have been formed to search for the two in U.P. as well as in Punjab. The new Ordinance was also invoked in a case in Mansoorpur in Muzaffarnagar, where two Muslim men were booked for allegedly trying to force a married Hindu woman to convert. Sections 504 (criminal intimidation), 506 and 120 B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code were also invoked, said police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/7-held-under-anti-conversion-law-in-up/article33261339.ece
06 December 2020||PALAKKAD,||Study finds repeated waves of Giant African Snail invasion||A recent study on the Giant African Snail ( Achatina fulica ) in Asia and Africa has found that the dangerous pest species had multiple episodes of invasion in India, particularly Kerala, and that new snail populations continue to arrive in India from snail-infested countries across the world. The study observed that its population found in India had a higher genetic variety than those in the native African continent. “The higher genetic diversity found in our country indicates that the snail continues to have multiple invasions from different countries,” said Keerthy Vijayan, assistant professor, Kalasalingam Academy of Research and Education (KARE), Tamil Nadu. The study done along with researchers from the Environmental Agency, UAE; Nottingham University; and Natural History Museum, London; found the same genetic strains of the snail population in India and the UAE. “The populations in India and the UAE share the same haplotypes (a set of genes within an organism inherited together from a single parent). The snail could be introduced repeatedly back and forth in the UAE and India, considering material movement between the two countries,” said Dr. Keerthy. Study period Conducted at the Kerala Forest Research Institute (KFRI) with the support of the Kerala State Council for Science, Technology and Environment (KSCSTE) between 2016 and 2020, the study was published in the biological journal of the Linnean Society. According to Dr. Keerthy, the snail reached Kerala for the first time when a researcher brought them from Annamalai University, Tamil Nadu, and accidentally released them at Elapully in Palakkad in the early 1950s. Population spread The snail population spread rapidly in the State, spurred by two more waves of invasion in the 1970s and in 2005. The import of timber from two dozen snail-infested countries sped up their spread in Kerala. “In 2005, this snail was recorded only in Palakkad, Ernakulam and Pathanamthitta. But by 2020, it has spread to all districts except Idukki,” said Dr. Keerthy. One of the worst invasive species declared by the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN), the Giant African Snail is suspected to spread eosinophilic meningitis, septicaemia and peritonitis in humans. Many cases of eosinophilic meningitis were reported among children in Ernakulam and Thiruvananthapuram. Dr. Keerthy said controlling this snail would be difficult because of its repeated invasions. “What we need is a long-term strategy to control and eradicate this invasive species,” she told The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/study-finds-repeated-waves-of-giant-african-snail-invasion/article33261498.ece
06 December 2020||GUWAHATI,||No church visit on Xmas, Bajrang Dal warns Assam Hindus||A unit of the right-wing Bajrang Dal in southern Assam’s Barak Valley has threatened Hindus with dire consequ-ences if they visit any church to celebrate Christmas. Members of the unit also said they did not care about the criticisms they would face for their vigilantism during the festival. “Hindus will pay a price for visiting churches on Christmas,” Bajrang Dal’s Cachar district general secretary Mithu Nath said. Cachar’s Deputy Commissioner Keerthi Jalli said the district has taken a note of the diktat issued by the local unit of the Bajrang Dal. “A case has been filed suo motu,” she told The Hindu on Saturday. Mr. Nath said their decision was in response to tribal Christian groups locking temples and Hindu spiritual centres in Meghalaya capital Shillong. The Khasi Students’ Union had allegedly locked the gates of the Vivekananda Cultural Centre in Shillong a few days ago. The centre is a part of the Ramakrishna Mission. “I know the headlines on December 26 will say Bajrang Dal goons vandalised such and such place or assaulted this or that person. We just don’t care,” he said on Friday. Cachar’s Deputy Commissioner Keerthi Jalli said the district has taken a note of the diktat issued by the local unit of the Bajrang Dal. “A case has been filed suo motu,” she told The Hindu on Saturday. Bajrang Dal had referred to the Khasi Students’ Union allegedly locking the gates of the Vivekananda Cultural Centre in Shillong a few days ago. The centre is a part of the Ramakrishna Mission. Former Meghalaya Governor Tathagata Roy had criticised the locking of the centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-church-visit-on-christmas-bajrang-dal-warns-assam-hindus/article33261532.ece
06 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Heavy rainfall likely in parts of State||Heavy to very heavy rainfall is likely in parts of the State and the Lakshadweep islands on Sunday due to a cyclonic circulation over the Lakshadweep-Maldives region, the India Meteorological Department (IMD). The weather agency has put Pathanamthitta, Ernakulam, Idukki, and Malappuram districts on orange alert on Sunday. Lakshadweep is on orange alert on Sunday and Monday. Yellow alert Yellow alert has been issued for Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Alappuzha, Kottayam, Thrissur, Palakkad, Kozhikode and Wayanad districts anticipating the possibility of isolated heavy rainfall. Several districts are likely to receive isolated heavy rainfall on Monday also. The IMD had earlier pointed out that Kerala was likely to receive above normal rainfall this week. Fishermen have been advised not to set out to sea on Sunday, given the possibility of inclement weather along the Kerala coast, Lakshadweep, the Maldives, Kanyakumari and southeast Arabian Sea. Low pressure area Meanwhile, the deep depression over the Gulf of Mannar has further diminished to a well-marked low pressure area.  Several districts are likely to receive isolated heavy rainfall on Monday also.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/heavy-rainfall-likely-in-parts-of-state/article33261495.ece
06 December 2020||HYDERABAD,||596 new COVID cases in Telangana||The COVID positivity rate continues to be low in Telangana with 596 new positive cases reported during the 24-hour period till 8 p.m. on December 4 out of 59,471 tests done during the day. According to a bulletin issued on Saturday by the Directorate of Public Health and Family Welfare, the number of COVID cases in the State has gone up to 2,72,719 till 8 p.m. on Friday. With three more COVID-related deaths, the number of fatalities has gone up to 1,470. The case fatality rate, however, continues to be low at 0.53% in the State as against 1.5% at the national level. Stating that the recovery rate in the State continues to be high at 96.34% as against 94.3% at national level, Director of Public Health said with 921 COVID patients being discharged on Friday, the number of persons recovered from the disease has gone up to 2,62,751 so far. Active cases The official said the number of active cases was 8,498, including 6,465 in home and institutional isolation, and the remaining 2,033 admitted in government and private hospitals. With 59,471 tests, including 56,563 in government labs, conducted on Friday, the number of COVID screening tests conducted in the State has gone up to 57,22,182. Asymptomatic cases The bulletin stated that the percentage of asymptomatic cases continues to be high at 70% in the State, or 1,90,903 out of 2,72,719 positive cases reported so far. Of the positive cases reported on Friday, 102 were from GHMC limits, followed by 47 from Medchal-Malkajgiri and 46 from Rangareddy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/596-new-covid-cases-in-telangana/article33262081.ece
06 December 2020||Kalaburagi,||Kalaburagi’s Jayadeva hospital gets new cath lab||Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences and Research (SJICSR), a State government-run premier institute of cardiology, installed the second catheterisation laboratory at its Kalaburagi branch on Saturday. After inaugurating it, C.N. Manjunath, Director of SJICSR, along with Veeresh Patil, senior cardiologist at the Kalaburagi branch of SJICSR, and other senior doctors, performed angioplasty and stenting procedure in the new lab. Speaking to The Hindu later, Dr. Manjunath said that the new lab would considerably reduce the mounting pressure on the existing lab and the staff. “There has been a growing need for patients requiring coronary angiograms, angioplasty with stenting and pacemaker procedures. The new lab will considerably reduce the load on the existing cath lab,” he said. As per the details by Dr. Manjunath, the Kalaburagi branch of SJICSR has, since its inauguration in 2016, conducted 20,000 cath lab procedures, including 5,000 angioplasty and stenting procedures, in addition to 150 pacemaker procedures. The institute has also conducted 500 open-heart surgeries with a very good result till date, he added. On the proposed new building, for which Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa laid the foundation stone on September 17 this year, Mr. Manjunath said that the work on the 300-bed new building would commence in the next four to six weeks. “The new project is estimated to cost Rs. 153 crore and is going to be funded by the Kalyana Karnataka Region Development Board,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kalaburagis-jayadeva-hospital-gets-new-cath-lab/article33261471.ece
06 December 2020||mumbai,||Positivity rate falls to 5% in Mumbai||Mumbai’s novel coronavirus test positivity rate has fallen to 5% for the first time since March, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) chief, I.S. Chahal, said on Saturday. When the virus outbreak began, this rate was 35% to 36% (which means 35% to 36% of tested samples were positive for the infection), he said in a statement. “COVID-19 test positivity for the last 10 days looks promising, but we should not be complacent and should not lower our guard,” the BMC commissioner warned. On December 4, as many as 16,394 tests were conducted in Mumbai, of which 825 or 5.03% came out positive, he said. The test positivity rate was 6.69% on November 25. Of the 16,394 tests conducted on Friday, 8,867 were RT-PCR and 7,527 antigen. As many as 684 RT-PCR tests and 141 antigen tests turned out positive. Mumbai has been reporting less than 1,000 new cases for the last six days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/positivity-rate-falls-to-5-in-mumbai/article33262154.ece
06 December 2020||Bengaluru,||Owners of premises to be fined for mask violations||Until now, people found to be not wearing masks or maintaining social distance were liable to be fined. Now owners of premises and organisers of events where people are found flouting rules too will have to cough up a huge fine. The fines that will be levied range from Rs. 5,000 to Rs. 1 lakh. Amendments have been made to the Karnataka Epidemic Diseases Ordinance 2020 to allow this. Owners of hotels, small shops, restaurants, hotels, party halls, department stores, malls, cinemas, multiplexes, marriage halls and community halls will also be fined if it is found that citizens on their premises are violating norms related to social distancing and wearing of mask. There are many events being held across the city, including weddings, conventions, fairs etc. Though permissions are granted with conditions, it has been found that many people attending these events don’t follow the rules. A circular on the new guidelines was issued by the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) Commissioner N. Manjunath Prasad here on Saturday. Currently, marshals and health inspectors levy a penalty of Rs. 250 on people found to be not wearing masks and not maintaining social distance. Speaking to The Hindu , the civic chief said that many restrictions that were in place following the outbreak of COVID-19 pandemic had been lifted by the Centre and the State government.  Mr. Prasad said in malls and shopping complexes, the thermal scanners and sanitisers are seen only at the entrance. Once inside, he said many citizens roam around without masks. “It is such events and gathering that may become ‘super spreaders’. By imposing heavy penalties, we want to send the message that it is responsibility of event organisers and owners of various establishments as well to ensure that rules are followed by all. This way, there will be some accountability on their part as well,” he said.           We want to send the message that it is responsibility of event organisers and owners of establishments to ensure that rules are followed by all N. Manjunath Prasad, BBMP Commissioner||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/owners-of-premises-to-be-fined-for-mask-violations/article33261579.ece
06 December 2020||December 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Business as usual||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/business-as-usual/article33262139.ece
06 December 2020||Mumbai,||First phase of e-way to open on May 1: CM||Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Saturday said the first phase of the Mumbai-Nagpur Samruddhi Expressway from Nagpur to Shirdi will be thrown open to the public on May 1, 2021. The Chief Minister made the announcement after reviewing the work at Shivni-Rasulapur in Nandgaon-Khandeshwar taluka of Amravati district. The eight-lane, 701-km-long expressway, is expected to cut travel time between Mumbai and Nagpur to eight hours from 18 hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/first-phase-of-e-way-to-open-on-may-1-cm/article33262155.ece
06 December 2020||Hyderabad,||Three killed as SUV runs amok||Three persons, including an elderly couple, were killed on the spot and two others suffered severe injuries after an SUV ran amok at Bada Bheemgal village in Nizamabad district here on Saturday. The car driver, Rakesh, apparently dozed off at the wheel and ran over a motorcycle moving in the same direction, and went on ploughing into a roadside hotel before it came to a halt. One of the three persons travelling on a bike and an elderly couple sitting in the hotel were killed. The victims were Bhumanna (48), Rajanna (70) and Bhudevi (70) from Bada Bheemgal. Bheemgal SI Sridhar Reddy said that the accident took place around 1.30 p.m. on the Bheemgal-Armoor route. He said that the car driver, a native of Maharashtra, was not drunk. A case was registered against Rakesh. Minister Vemula Prashanth Reddy expressed shock over the accident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/three-killed-as-suv-runs-amok/article33262109.ece
06 December 2020||SIDDIPET,||CM to visit Siddipet on Dec. 10||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao will inaugurate the newly constructed Telangana Bhavan, Collectorate, Commissionerate, double bedroom houses at Narsapur and guest house at Ranganaiksagar in Chandlapur on December 10. This is the first party office to be inaugurated in any district headquarters in the State. He will also launch 7.25 MLD Sewage Treatment Plant and participate in some other programmes and address a public meeting. The details of CM's visit was revealed by Finance Minister T. Harish Rao who inspected the arrangements on Saturday. Mr. Harish Rao along with Collector P. Venkatarami Reddy and Commissioner of police Joyal Davis visited these places and supervised the arrangements. The programme was scheduled for last month but was reportedly postponed due to GHMC elections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kcr-to-visit-siddipet-on-dec-10/article33262110.ece
06 December 2020||NELLORE,||‘Use liquor revenue to provide aid to farmers’||JSP president Pawan Kalyan on Saturday asked the the YSRCP government to make use of the revenue from the sale of liquor to provide succour to the farmers who had lost their crops under the impact of Cyclone Nivar. Touring the flood-hit areas in Venkatagiri, Naidupeta, Gudur, Sarvepalli, Kovur and Nellore along with, among others, Party Political Affairs Committee chairman Nadendla Manohar, the JSP chief castigated the government for leaving the rain-hit farmers in the lurch. Prohibition “It is a different matter that the ruling YSRCP has not kept its poll promise of introducing total prohibition and ushering in Bangaru Andhra Pradesh,” he said. Reeling out the brands of cheap liquor sold in the State, Mr. Pawan Kalyan said, “The revenue generated from the sale of such liquor, which is approximately Rs. 16,000 crore per year, should be used to compensate the farmers who suffered loss of crops such as paddy, cotton, chilli, tobacco, red gram, groundnut and banana.” Central aid He assured the farmers to stand by them at this hour of crisis and get liberal assistance using his good offices with the ruling BJP at the Centre. Accusing the YSRCP government of taking the loss incurred by the farmers lightly, he said the JSP would stage State-wide protests on Monday. “Just one day was allotted for debating issues concerning the farmers,” he said even as farmers showed him the damaged paddy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/use-liquor-revenue-to-provide-aid-to-farmers/article33261329.ece
06 December 2020||New Delhi,||India set to be largest buyer of vaccines||India is the largest buyer of COVID-19 vaccines in the world with 1.6 billion doses, according to a global analysis, a number some scientists say could cover 800 million people or 60% of its population, and will be enough to develop ‘herd immunity’. India has purchased 500 million doses of the Oxford University-AstraZeneca vaccine candidate, one billion from the U.S. company Novavax and 100 million doses of the Sputnik V candidate from Russia’s Gamaleya Research Institute, according to the U.S.-based Duke University Global Health Innovation Center. The ‘Launch and Scale Speedometer’ analysis, which is updated every two weeks, shows India has confirmed 1.6 billion doses of three vaccines as of November 30 while the U.S. and the EU have purchased doses of six candidates. According to the analysis, India is the top COVID-19 vaccine buyer followed by the European Union, which has confirmed 1.58 billion doses, and the U.S., the worst affected country so far, that has managed to purchase just over a billion doses. As countries strategise to secure more shots to protect their populations against the novel coronavirus infection, Duke University has released a new global assessment of purchasing agreements for COVID-19 vaccines, even before any candidates are in the market. Countries with manufacturing capacity, such as India and Brazil, have been successful in negotiating large advance market commitments with leading vaccine candidates as part of the manufacturing agreements, the Duke researchers noted in their analysis. “The data is based on what is in the public domain and after speaking to government officials, especially in India,” explained noted virologist Shahid Jameel. In November, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said 400-500 million doses of COVID-19 vaccines were estimated to be made available for 250 to 300 million (25 crore to 30 crore) people in India by July-August 2021. “Pre-booked” Dr. Jameel told PTI that all the vaccines ‘pre-booked’ by India are manufactured by Indian companies — Oxford-AstraZeneca and Novavax by Serum Institute of India (SII) in Pune and Sputnik V by Dr. Reddy’s Lab in Hyderabad. India’s domestic vaccine candidate by Bharat Biotech also entered Phase 3 clinical trials this week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/india-is-the-biggest-buyer-of-covid-19-vaccines-says-study/article33261330.ece
06 December 2020||GUNTUR,||Ambati tests positive again||Sattenapalli MLA Ambati Rambabu has tested positive for COVID-19 again, the second time after he tested positive in July this year. Mr. Rambabu’s aides said the MLA had symptoms of mild fever and took the test on Friday at the Assembly. In a tweet, Mr. Rambabu said he had recovered after testing positive initially, but tested positive again. He said he was under home isolation and asked people not to worry as he was under medical care.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ambati-tests-positive-again/article33261336.ece
06 December 2020||JAIPUR,||‘BJP conspiring to topple govt.’||Barely four months after the Congress regime won a confidence vote on the floor of the Rajasthan Assembly, Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Saturday accused the BJP of making renewed attempts to topple his government. Mr. Gehlot charged Home Minister Amit Shah with holding “secret meetings” with Congress MLAs earlier this year. “Our MLAs told me after meeting with Amit Shah and [Petroleum Minister] Dharmendra Pradhan that they were ashamed to see Mr. Shah as the Home Minister. There was a time when Sardar [Vallabhbhai] Patel was the Home Minister, and now it is him,” Mr. Gehlot said, while virtually inaugurating the Congress office at Sheoganj in Sirohi district. Mr. Gehlot said BJP leaders were giving assurances to Congress MLAs that they had “pulled down five governments and this [Rajasthan] would be the sixth”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/gehlot-accuses-bjp-of-conspiring-to-topple-govt/article33261620.ece
06 December 2020||December 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Fresh arrival||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/new-arrival/article33261534.ece
06 December 2020||December 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Left parties to support bandh||The five Left parties have come together to extend support to the farmers’ organisations that have called for a ‘Bharat Bandh’ on December 8. They have also called upon other political parties to stand with the farmers.Page 11||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/left-parties-to-support-bandh/article33261341.ece
06 December 2020||December 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Paddy stacked on Odisha roads||Hundreds of farmers left their produce on major roads in Odisha, protesting against “faulty procure-ment procedures.” Farmers said they were facing the possibility of selling paddy at prices lower than in the market.Page 11||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/paddy-stacked-on-odisha-roads/article33261342.ece
06 December 2020||December 06 2020 00:00 IST,||‘People have right to protest’||“People have a right to demonstrate peacefully and authorities need to let them do so,” Stephane Dujarric, spokesperson for the Secretary-General of the UN said on Saturday, about the farmers’ movement in India.Page 11||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/people-have-right-to-protest/article33262004.ece
06 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Campaigning for phase I polls ends today||Campaigning will come to a close at 6 p.m. on Sunday in the five districts that go to the polls in the first phase of the local body elections on December 8. Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Pathanamthitta, Alappuzha and Idukki go to polls on December 8. The five districts have a combined voter strength of 88,26,620, including 41,58,341 men, 46,68,209 women and 70 transgender persons. In all, 24,584 candidates are in the fray in the five districts. The polling stations will be disinfected on Monday. As much as 2.8 lakh litres of sanitiser will be used for the elections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/campaigning-for-phase-i-polls-ends-today/article33261496.ece
06 December 2020||Kolkata,||Mukul Roy named conspirator in TMC leader’s murder||Senior BJP leader Mukul Roy has been named ‘conspirator’ in the second supplementary chargesheet filed by West Bengal CID on Saturday in the murder of Trinamool Congress MLA Satyajit Biswas, sources in the agency said. The second supplementary chargesheet was filed in a court in Nadia district on Saturday.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mukul-roy-named-conspirator-in-tmc-leaders-murder/article33261530.ece
06 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Unsafe injections caused HIV surge in Unnao: ICMR||“Unsafe injection exposure during treatment and receipt of intramuscular injection in the last five years were independently associated with HIV sero-reactive (presence of antibodies) status,” noted the Indian Council of Medical Research as the reason for the surge of HIV in Unnao in 2017-18.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/unsafe-injections-caused-hiv-surge-in-unnao-icmr/article33261619.ece
06 December 2020||Bengaluru,||BMTC aims to revamp ITS by March 2021||The Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC) is likely to overhaul its Intelligent Transport System (ITS) by March 2021. The upgraded system includes a mobile app with safety features for women.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bmtc-aims-to-revamp-its-by-march-2021/article33262000.ece
06 December 2020||Bengaluru,||Owners of premises to be fined for mask violation||Now, owners of premises and organisers of events where people are found flouting rules will have to cough up a huge fine. The fines that will be levied range from Rs. 5,000 to Rs. 1 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/owners-of-premises-to-be-fined-for-mask-violation/article33262002.ece
06 December 2020||Belagavi,||Meet empowers Kateel to act against indiscipline||Amidst increasing reports of groupism andone-upmanship, the State executive committee meeting of the BJP ended in Belagavi on Saturday with a resolution to empower the president to constitute committees to rein in leaders who flout party discipline.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/meet-empowers-kateel-to-act-against-indiscipline/article33262003.ece
06 December 2020||Chennai,||Depression turns into low pressure area||The depression over the Gulf of Mannar, close to the coast of Ramanathapuram, remained stationary and became a well-marked low pressure area on Saturday. It is expected to bring heavy to very heavy rain in isolated areas of Ramanathapuram, Madurai, Virudhunagar and Thoothukudi districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/depression-turns-into-low-pressure-area/article33262058.ece
06 December 2020||Mangaluru,||Beating the COVID-19 blues through music||An initiative by a Mangaluru-based music academy to beat the pandemic blues has resulted in 500 live concerts being conducted online as of Sunday with the participation of musicians from across the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/beating-the-covid-19-blues-through-music/article33262142.ece
06 December 2020||MANGALURU,||Seer for Shiroor Mutt to be appointed soon||Sode Vadiraja Mutt, one of the Ashta Mutts of Udupi, on Saturday announced appointing a seer to Shiroor Mutt during the oncoming Uttarayana season.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/seer-for-shiroor-mutt-to-be-appointed-soon/article33262141.ece
06 December 2020||CHENNAI,||Precautionary measures helped reduce damage:CM||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami said precautionary measures taken by the government helped contain damage to property and reduce the number of deaths. He said he had directed officials to distribute food packets, drinking water and milk powder.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/non-chlorinated-water-tankers-to-be-penalised/article33262030.ece
06 December 2020||Navi Mumbai,||Firefighter dies while battling blaze in Taloja||A firefighter died while dousing a blaze at Mody Chemical Industry in Taloja MIDC on Friday night. Balu Deshmukh (32), one of the firefighters from the Ambernath fire brigade, who was called in for assistance, died battling the fire. Four others were taken to hospital with breathing problems.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/firefighter-dies-while-battling-blaze-in-taloja/article33262157.ece
06 December 2020||Belagavi,||Meet empowers Kateel to act against indiscipline||Amidst increasing reports of groupism and one-upmanship, the State executive committee meeting of the BJP ended in Belagavi on Saturday with a resolution to empower the president to constitute committees to rein in leaders who flout party discipline.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/meet-empowers-kateel-to-act-against-indiscipline/article33261475.ece
06 December 2020||Chennai,||Anna University V-C is being targeted: Kamal||Makkal Needhi Maiam founder Kamal Haasan on Saturday supported Anna University Vice-Chancellor M.K. Surappa, against whom the State government recently ordered a probe. The actor-politician said Prof. Surappa was being targeted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/anna-university-v-c-is-being-targeted-kamal/article33262031.ece
06 December 2020||Chennai,||Tamil Nadu sees 1,366 cases, 15 deaths||The State reported 1,366 fresh cases and 15 fatalities on Saturday, even as 1,407 persons were discharged after treatment for COVID-19. Tamil Nadu’s tally has now touched 7,88,920. Perambalur recorded no new cases, while eight districts saw under 10 cases. Chennai reported 353 new infections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tamil-nadu-sees-1366-cases-15-deaths/article33261372.ece
06 December 2020||December 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Islamic multilateralism with internal fissures||Dennis Michael Rohan did not dream of the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation (OIC), yet this Australian’s dreams would lead to the creation of one of the oldest multilateral bodies of the Islamic world. The OIC, which hits the headlines in India whenever it comments on the Kashmir issue, was born in the backdrop of a series of historic developments in the Arab world, beginning with the Six-Day War of 1967 that led to the shocking defeat of the frontline Arab countries such as Egypt, Jordan and Syria. The war also led to the loss of East Jerusalem, which hosts the Al-Aqsa mosque, one of the three holiest shrines in Islam after Mecca and Medina. The sensational victory of the Israel Defence Forces was topped by the arrival of the Jewish troops at the Western Wall, the Jewish holy site adjoining Al-Aqsa. While the Israeli government promised to preserve the holy Islamic shrine, fanatics across the world dreamt of a new era. Dennis Michael Rohan, in Australia, dreamt of the second coming of Jesus Christ and he took it upon himself to make way for the messiah and he flew to Israel. The original pulpit of Al-Aqsa was an object of wonder. The 12th century wooden structure had survived the ups and downs of history that visited Jerusalem and left its mark on the city that was holy to three religions. In 1969, Rohan arrived in Israel and in the night of August 21, he carried a can of kerosene into Al-Aqsa and set fire to the pulpit. As smoke rose from the ancient mosque’s windows, sending out shock and horror across the world, Islamic countries began brainstorming about the Palestine cause and the need to protect the holy shrines that fell in the occupied territories. The storm of public outrage triggered the first conference of Islamic governments, which was held in Rabat, Morocco, on September 22-25, 1969, where they resolved to protect the Palestinian territories, and condemned the arson attack. The Rabat conference had two criteria of membership: the countries with Muslim majority and those with a Muslim head of state could be considered for membership of the collective that would eventually become the OIC. Former Indian Ambassador to Morocco, Gurbachan Singh, has said India was invited to be a participant in the inaugural summit and yet, when the Minister of Industrial Development Fakhruddin Ali Ahmed arrived in Rabat, the Indian case was mixed with the riot in Ahmedabad, which was brought up by President Yahya Khan of Pakistan. India as a secular democracy was formally invited through Ambassador Singh, but Pakistan, which had already fought two wars with India and had a heating political scenario in East Pakistan at that time, successfully scuttled the Indian case at the Rabat summit. The summit boosted the Palestine cause considerably and the next four years, the world witnessed a series of developments, including dramatic hijacking of aircraft by various organisations demanding the liberation of Palestine. Meanwhile, Yahya Khan had a personal setback with the defeat of Pakistan in the 1971 war against India. This defeat, which was noted within the OIC, was followed by the Yom Kippur War of 1973 during which the Arab air forces were able to stun Israel. This was quickly followed by the oil shock, which was the outcome of the energy embargo imposed by the Arabs mainly at the behest of King Faisal of Saudi Arabia. Lahore summit Soon thereafter, OIC Secretary-General Tunku Abdul Rahman suggested an emergency summit of the Islamic countries for brainstorming the future of the Islamic world. Tunku, who was the first Prime Minister of Malaysia, decided to shift the summit away from the Arab world. In 1974, Lahore hosted the OIC summit. In the past, Malaysia and Pakistan had troublesome ties. Malaysia had not supported Pakistan in the 1965 war. However, the past was forgotten as the Pakistan leadership found the summit as an opportunity to get out of the economic downturn and diplomatic isolation caused by the defeat in the 1971 war. The summit turned out to be a success for Zulfikar Ali Bhutto’s government. Many big names such as Anwar Sadat of Egypt, Shah Reza Pahlavi of Iran, the young Colonel Moammer Gaddafi of Libya were hosted at Lahore, and Prime Minister Bhutto personally received each one of the guests. Pakistan managed to score a major diplomatic point by inviting Sheikh Mujibur Rahman of Bangladesh and recognised the new country. The images of Mr. Bhutto, who had just three years ago demanded harshest punishment for Sheikh Mujib, welcoming him at the airport was broadcast across the world. Gaddafi became the star of the summit as he represented a new oil rich power which had the potential of bankrolling Pakistan’s aspirations. It also hosted Yasser Arafat of the Palestine Liberation Organisation (PLO) and treated the outfit as a state representative. It is believed that the gesture went down very well with Arafat, who was reported to have said, “Palestine was born in Lahore”. Despite the bonhomie, the countries were barely united under the umbrella of the OIC, and the disunity has been a consistent factor of weakness in the organisation. For example, Gaddafi was opposed by the Shah of Iran as the former had described him as a U.S. ally. Mr. Bhutto had personal problems with the Shah, who had reached out to Indira Gandhi around this time for oil trade. The Lahore summit brought the Pakistan factor in a prominent way in the OIC. However, the next big developments like the siege of Mecca’s Grand Mosque in November 1979 and the Islamic Revolution of Iran earlier that year added new dynamics to the organisation. Iran-Iraq war Soon, the OIC was divided across the middle as the eight-year-long Iran-Iraq war broke out in 1980. During the war, Saddam Hussein of Iraq was backed by Saudi Arabia against the Shia theocratic Iran. The jihad in Afghanistan against Soviet troops in the 1980s gave an opportunity for unity among themselves, but they never managed to bridge the Iran-Saudi sectarian and geopolitical gap, which continues to resonate in West Asian politics. As the group remained divided over its two powerful members, Pakistan brought up the Kashmir issue repeatedly. India was given a rare opportunity in the aftermath of the Pulwama attack to state its case on global terrorism at the Foreign Minister-level meeting of the OIC in Abu Dhabi. This, however, did not deter the organisation from remaining focused on the state of affairs in Kashmir, which was stripped of special status six months after the Pulwama strike. Headquartered in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia, the group now has 57 member States. Former Saudi Social Affairs Minister Yousef bin Ahmad Al-Othaimeen is its current Secretary-General. In recent years, apart from terrorism, the OIC has routinely taken up vexing problems like the Rohingya refugee crisis, the Syrian civil war, Kashmir, the conflict in Yemen and, of course, the Palestine issue. But besides passing resolutions, the group could do little to resolve any of these problems. Also, even when it projects itself as a body for transnational Islamic cooperation, the divisions within the group runs deep.  In Focus  After an arson attack on Al-Aqsa mosque in the Israel-held East Jerusalem, leaders from Muslim countries met in Rabat in 1969, and called for closer ties among Muslim governments  The Rabat meet had two criteria for membership: the countries with a Muslim majority and those with a Muslim head of state could be a member in the group, which became the OIC The OIC, headquartered in Jeddah, has 57 member states, and former Saudi Minister Yousef bin Ahmad Al-Othaimeen is its current Secretary-General   Since the Islamic Revolution of Iran, the OIC never managed to bridge the divide between Iran and Saudi Arabia, which continues to resonate in West Asian politics||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/islamic-multilateralism-with-internal-fissures/article33261317.ece
06 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Teens marry in classroom, officials say it’s illegal||A “child marriage” performed in a classroom of a junior college in Rajamahendravaram in East Godavari district of Andhra Pradesh has come to light, and the police have registered a case under the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act, 2006. The event came to light after a video of the ceremony was widely shared on social media groups. Officials said the marriage was null and void, and the boy and girl involved were counselled. Police were investigating who performed the “marriage” of the minors in the classroom. The teen “bride” and the “bridegroom”, studying at the Intermediate level are classmates, said Andhra Pradesh Mahila Commission Chairperson Vasireddy Padma. The Commission would provide shelter to the minor girl, she said. The teenager, about 17 years old, brought a “mangalsutra” along with him and tied it to the girl in the classroom. Later, he applied vermilion (sindoor) to the girl and the couple took photographs. Another minor girl reportedly made a video of what happened and shared the footage with her friends. After coming to know of the incident, the management of the junior college removed the names of the students from the rolls and gave them transfer certificates. “The girl’s parents refused to allow her to return home. She was shifted to a One Stop Centre for counselling. Mahila Commission members spoke to the boy’s parents also and counselled them,” Ms. Padma said on Saturday. Case filed Meanwhile, the Rajamahendravaram Two Town police registered a case and took up investigation. “We will record the statements of the two minors, their family members and the college management. The police will explain the consequences of child marriage to everyone concerned,” said a police officer. “The marriage of minors in a classroom highlights the poor knowledge of law among students. The Mahila Commission is conducting awareness programmes in colleges and universities against child marriages, and on the POCSO Act and the Right to Education Act,” said Mahila Commission Director R. Suez.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/teens-marry-in-classroom-officials-say-it-is-void/article33261281.ece
06 December 2020||Ghaziabad,||‘Youngsters are watching us’||Wit and candour were in good supply at the farmers’ protest on Saturday as it entered the tenth day on the border that connects Uttar Pradesh to Delhi. “Every morning, when I come to the protest site after taking a bath in the nearby gurdwara, I see policemen looking fresh in their uniforms. I request them to give me a few blows so that the agitation gets wings as it did in Haryana, but somehow the administration in Ghaziabad is refusing to give us the prasad ,” chuckles Sukhraj Singh, 62, who has come from a village in Hapur district in Uttar Pradesh. This is his sixth day at the protest site and he hasn’t lost his sense of humour. There are many layers to the farmers’ stir. When it started, it was led by the Bhartiya Kisan Union’s (BKU) Tikait faction, which decided to stay under the Delhi-Meerut flyover, making it easier for the police in Delhi and in Uttar Pradesh. However, when the Rashtriya Kisan Mazdoor Sangathan (RKMS) and Kisan Sabha joined them, some of the farmers shifted base to the flyover, blocking one of the lanes of the highway that brings traffic from Uttar Pradesh to Delhi. Gurshanjeet Singh of RKMS says they were all together in the protest but it was also a fact that those sitting beneath were playing a “friendly game” till they arrived. “We came here because the government was not listening to us as long as we were in Burari. They listen to those who block roads. Now, no farmer leader can cheat his followers because youngsters are watching and everything is on social media,” adds Mr. Gurshanjeet, in what sounds like a dig at the BKU leadership. Gained resolve One thing that this protest has done, he says,is evoking the interest of youngsters towards farming and its issues. “Now I can rest assured that my land would be tilled by my sons and grandsons. This government has given us the nischay (purpose) to hold on till our demands are met,” he says. Some have described it as the protest of big farmers. Dara Singh from Bazpur in Uddham Singh Nagar chips in, “Four workers and their families depend on me. If I don’t get the payment of sugarcane on time, how will I feed them?” he asks. The protest, he says, has given the women at home the excuse to shoo away creditors and escape embarrassment. “They would say, Sardar ji is in Delhi!” says the 70-year-old, ready for a long haul. Meanwhile, the Ghaziabad administration is trying hard to ensure the situation doesn’t go out of its hands. It is pushing the farmers to shift a little further into Delhi territory but as of now, the farmers are not in a mood to listen. Additional District Magistrate (City) Shailendra Kumar Singh, who is leading the negotiations, could be heard reciting couplets and praising the Sikh courage and the Jat wit in solving problems. On Friday evening, he successfully persuaded the group to not put a tent on the flyover for sleeping at night. “Don’t put any temporary or permanent structure on the highway. It will compel us to take action,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/youngsters-are-watching-us/article33261284.ece
06 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Parliament project set for launch||Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla on Saturday said Prime Minister Narendra Modi would on December 10 lay the foundation stone for the new Parliament building, which would be a symbol of “atmanirbhar Bharat” and a “temple of democracy” for Independent India. Addressing the media at his residence here, Mr. Birla said the project would be initiated with abhoomi pujanby the Prime Minister. He said the floor leaders of all political parties would be invited, and depending on COVID-19 protocols, some of the invitees would attend virtually. The event would be telecast live as well, he said. He said the long-pending demand of MPs for a new and modern building and offices for all MPs had been addressed. The MPs’ offices, of 40 sq m each, would be built in place of the Shram Shakti Bhawan by 2024 and would be connected to Parliament via an underground pathway, Mr. Birla said. 22-month plan The new building would be built adjacent to the existing building in over 22 months.  He said it was a matter of pride that artisans and sculptors from across the country would contribute to the new building, showcasing diversity and making it a symbol of “Atmanirbhar Bharat”. The existing building would be preserved for future generations, he said. The building would have modern equipment, would be earthquake-safe and accommodate up to 1,224 MPs during joint sessions in the Lok Sabha chamber. The Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha chambers themselves would accommodate 888 and 384 MPs respectively. The building, to be constructed by Tata Projects Ltd. at Rs. 971 crore, would have a built-up area of 64,500 sq m over four floors. According to government sources, the existing Parliament building, constructed by the British in the 1920s, was designed for the Imperial Legislative Council and not for a bicameral Parliament. The building has been modified over the years, including in 1956 when two floors were added. While the number of Lok Sabha seats has remained 545 based on delimitation carried out on the basis of the 1971 Census, it is likely to increase after 2026 as the number of seats has been frozen till then. The sources said the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha halls were packed and would not be able to accommodate additional members when the number of seats goes up. The new Lok Sabha chamber would be three times the size of the current one, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/parliament-project-set-for-launch/article33261312.ece
06 December 2020||December 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Hard-hitting Democrat||U.S. President-elect Joe Biden’s pick of Neera Tanden, president and CEO of the Center for American Progress (CAP), for Director, Office of Management and Budget, became embroiled in controversy almost as soon as it was announced. This was primarily because Ms. Tanden, known to be an outspoken advocate of the political values and policies of the Democratic Party, had on several past occasions lashed out on Twitter, principally at Senate Republicans but also some on the left wing of the Democratic Party. She appeared to make a pre-emptive strike on further controversy when she deleted roughly 1,000 past tweets. So, what have some of her tweets said, that they have caused such a sense of outrage? On the one hand, Ms. Tanden appeared to have a no-holds-barred approach to criticising Republicans on specific policy issues, such as in one deleted tweet where she said, “The Republican party is gleefully supporting an alleged child molester. And everyone who gives money to the RNC is doing the same,” a reference to Republicans’ support of Roy Moore, accused by several women of sexual assault, as a Senate candidate an Alabama election. Similarly, another deleted tweet dating back to August 2018 said, “Trump just called a black woman a dog and about 80% of the GOP don't think he’s racist.” She also referred to Senate Majority leader Mitch McConnell as “Moscow Mitch.” However, Ms. Tanden’s tweets have raised such a furore also because they do not spare the left wing of the Democratic Party either, including supporters of Senator Bernie Sanders, the self-proclaimed “Democratic socialist”. A little more than a year ago, through the presidential primary campaign, Mr. Sanders shot off a letter to the CAP, accusing Ms. Tanden of “maligning my staff and supporters and belittling progressive ideas”. U.S. media reported years ago Ms. Tanden allegedly “punched” Mr. Sanders’ 2020 campaign manager, “in the chest” — an assertion that she denies, but reportedly admits she may have pushed him. She is also said to have described as “crazy leftists” people who supported a minimum wage of $15, one of Mr. Sanders’ top policy priorities. Unsurprisingly then, a number of Republicans have expressed scepticism about confirming her nomination to a role that will empower her to direct the production of the annual Budget and influence appropriations legislation that sets annual spending levels for the federal government. Polarised politics The key question is the extent to which having a cage-rattler of the Tanden variety will be beneficial to the incoming Biden administration, at a time when 73 million people voted for incumbent President Donald Trump, and partisan bitterness has deeply polarised the politics of Washington. In one sense, Ms. Tanden represents the typical multicultural background of the aspiring Democrat of the next generation. She came from humble beginnings, born to immigrants from India. When she was around five years of age, her parents got divorced and her mother had to rely on food stamps and government-subsidised housing to survive. It was from the politics and policies of the Clintons that she apparently derived her passion to serve the public, and the values that underpinned that drive. Armed with a Bachelor of Science from the University of California, and a law degree from Yale Law School, Ms. Tanden’s career soon soared as she became an Associate Director for domestic policy in former President Bill Clinton’s White House and as a senior policy adviser to the First Lady. She earned her spurs in the highest echelons of Democratic Party firmament when she became the director of domestic policy for the Obama-Biden presidential campaign of 2008. That led to her role as a senior adviser for health reform at the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, an opportunity to contribute to the development and passage of former President Barack Obama’s seminal legislative policy — the Affordable Care Act. If her nomination is confirmed, Ms. Tanden could continue to shine as one of the Democratic Party’s most prominent rising stars. However, her style of engagement with opponents and allies alike may require moderation if she is to survive the vicissitudes of Washington politics.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hard-hitting-democrat/article33261314.ece
06 December 2020||December 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Riding the ‘infodemic’ wave||More than one month since presidential elections were held in the U.S., incumbent President Donald Trump has refused to concede his loss to Joe Biden despite the fact that the latter has clearly secured 306 Electoral College votes (to Mr. Trump’s 232) and 51.3% of the popular vote (against 46.9%). Mr. Trump continues to push conspiracy theories of a rigged election and has sought to overturn verdicts in several battleground States by trying to nullify postal ballots. Despite courts across these States dismissing more than three dozen lawsuits filed by the Trump campaign and facts flying at the face of obvious disinformation and lying fed by them, opinion polls estimate that three fourths of Republican voters now believe that Mr. Biden won because of voter fraud. No other phenomenon exemplifies the scourge of misinformation more in the U.S. than the far-right, fringe conspiracy theory called, ‘QAnon’ that emerged as anonymous postings on the frivolity laden message board “4chan” in 2017 and since then spread as wildfire across social media platforms. The crazy theory behind QAnon is that President Trump’s administration was leading a crusade against a ring of cannibal paedophiles, including Democratic Party leaders and celebrities. And that there was a Trump administration insider, ‘Q’, who was feeding information about this crusade and everything under the presidency was “under control”, in contrast to the chaos that was being depicted by mainstream media. Extremist network This group has since its origins become an extremist network on the Internet, spreading rampant misinformation about politics and the COVID-19 response, in particular about mask wearing and the lockdown. Two Republican Congressional House candidates Marjorie Taylor Greene and Lauren Boebert, who have endorsed the QAnon theories, have won elections. Meanwhile, some QAnon believers had moved from hateful rhetoric on the internet to hate crimes such as plotting to plant a bomb in the Illinois State Capitol in 2018, using an armoured car to block traffic on a bridge in 2018, vandalism in a Catholic Church in Arizona in 2019, among others. This led to a bipartisan resolution that passed in the House of Representatives in October 2020, condemning QAnon, and urged Americans to seek information from authoritative sources. Mr. Trump, on the other hand, acknowledged the support from this “movement” and did nothing to disavow its base claims. The viraling of misinformation has led to social media platforms seeking to regulate and ban QAnon groups and posts on them — an analysis by Facebook found that the major QAnon groups and pages had more than 3 million members in August 2020. The social network then sought to aggressively take down content promoted by QAnon groups. QAnon message administrators have since then sought to regroup in other message boards, but there has been a lull in activity since Mr. Trump’s loss in the election, something that was unimaginable for QAnoners. Companies like Facebook, which has more than 2.7 billion users worldwide, have long had an “organic content” problem, which is also shared by other ‘BigTech’ websites such as Twitter and Google-owned Youtube. BigTech algorithms on social media are designed to connect people by grouping them based on similar likes and interests and to amplify “viral content”. Keeping people online is key to revenues for social media companies and an algorithm approach that feeds cognitive biases (likes and interests) is a clear outcome of this strategy. Algorithms seek to promote, on user feeds, content that “engages” their attention, producing a cascading effect on information sharing that has little to do with credibility or accuracy and more with reinforcement of beliefs within echo chambers. This is how groups based on conspiracy theories such as QAnon achieved acquired potency for misinformation, leaving platforms like Facebook and Twitter to scramble for ways to regulate them much after they had become popular. As the U.S. continues to experience a high daily COVID-19 death toll of more than 2,000, it is now clear that the pandemic and the “infodemic” have been interlinked and a coherent response to the former will have to include one for the latter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/riding-the-infodemic-wave/article33261319.ece
06 December 2020||New Delhi,||Convicts to compensate victims of crime in Delhi||Delhi is going to be first city in the country where victims of crime, ranging from rape, murder to theft, will be financially compensated by a convict for physical injuries, emotional or psychological trauma and even funeral expenses. The compensation or “restitution” will be paid by the convict and may have a bearing on the final sentencing, if the court and the victim agree. To determine a just and reasonable amount of restitution, the court shall pay due regard to non-monetary factors such as emotional trauma or harm, nature and severity of physical injury, type and duration of medical intervention required, nature and duration of physical health problems, loss of life, loss of affection and companionship, loss of reputation. The move follows a report filed by amicus curiae G.S. Bajpai, who is also the Chairperson, Centre for Criminology and Victimology at the National Law University in Delhi, in association with senior advocate Vikas Pahwa in the Delhi High Court. Evaluation tool Based on the report, a tool for the “victim impact report” has been put in place and it will be applicable to all courts in Delhi covering all police stations in Delhi. The court while deciding the quantum of compensation will consider monetary expenses borne by the victim as such as money spent on counselling or psychological therapy, medical treatment, loss of earning, legal expenses, damage or loss to property, loss due to attachment or collection of property for evidentiary purposes, funeral expenses and interest on the total sum incurred. After a crime has been reported, the investigating officer will have to compulsorily record the “loss or injury to the victim” and “financial capacity of the accused.” A group of legal experts appointed by Delhi State Legal Services Authority (DSLSA), including senior police officers and social activists appointed by the court where a criminal trial is taking place, will assess the “emotional and mental” trauma faced by the victim of any crime and will prescribe monetary compensation before the jail sentence is announced. “Minor offences such as petty theft may have emotional impact in the short term while offences such as kidnapping or rape are bou-nd to have long-term consequences,” the report said. Mr. Bajpai told The Hindu , “Our criminal justice system is accused-centric and the victim does not have space. This practice will bring the victim to the mainstream.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/convicts-to-compensate-victims-of-crime-in-delhi/article33261308.ece
06 December 2020||PALAKKAD,||A goldmine of Iron Age finds at Muthalamada burial site||An iron chisel that lay under soil for over 2,000 years was recovered in good condition from an urn burial site at Nagampadam, near the Muthalamada railway station, in Palakkad district on Saturday. The chisel, believed to be from the Iron Age, is expected to throw light on the early Iron Age historic burials in the region. Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) officials are expected to visit the site in a few days. K. Rajan, who had studied the urn burials at Nagampadam four years ago as part of a University Grants Commission (UGC) minor research project on iron age burials of Palakkad district, said that the site was a goldmine for those researching in Iron Age in Kerala.  Finer quality After examining the iron chisel that weighed 252 gm and had a length of 24 cm, Mr. Rajan said that it was of “finer metal quality”. He said it remained intact for over 2,000 years because of its metal quality. The chisel had 5 cm width at its cutting edge. The Iron Age or megalithic period is estimated to be from the fifth century BC to the third century AD. It was recovered from a private compound owned by A. Gangadharan, a retired railway employee. The plot and its surrounding areas had a number of urn and cist burial sites. “We have more than a dozen cist and urn burial sites in this region,” said Mr. Rajan. Several capstones of the burial sites were removed by the farmers earlier without realising their historic significance. Urns too were broken.  ASI visit Shards of blackware and redware bowls were also recovered along with the iron chisel on Saturday. “Without the ASI involvement, we cannot take this study further. ASI officials have agreed to visit the site after a few days,” said Mr. Rajan. He said a lot of invaluable materials from the Iron Age were destroyed inadvertently by the farmers. “They are not aware of this site’s historical value. So we can’t blame them. Many urns were broken when they dug up the land for cultivation,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/a-goldmine-of-iron-age-finds-at-muthalamada-burial-site/article33261553.ece
06 December 2020||CHENNAI,||‘Poor upkeep of tunnel caused flooding in Chidambaram temple’||The flooding inside the Nataraja temple in Chidambaram occurred after four decades, despite an ancient underground drainage system in place on the premises. “Lack of maintenance led to the flooding. The drainage system was created by Chola King Kulotunga II, whose reign was between 1133 and 1150 A.D.,” said J.R. Sivaramakrishnan, assistant professor of history at the Kunthavai Natchiyar Government Arts College, Thanjavur. Mr. Sivaramakrishnan, who discovered the tunnel while working at Annamalai University, said the 2,000 m underground drainage system would take water to a five-acre tank, known as Thiruparkadal. “The drainage system begins near the north gopuram. The temple on a sprawling 51 acre premises has been built in such a way that the water slopped into the drainage,” he said. For many years, Thiruparkadal disappeared from sight as it was encroached upon. “When we read the inscription, we found the reference to the existence of the tank. We brought it to the notice of devotees and the government. Subsequently, it was restored,” Mr. Sivaramakrishnan said.The excess water from Thiruparkadal would go to Sivapriya Kulam, near Thillai Kali temple, through another drainage system. “We should keep in mind that Chidambaram temple itself was constructed on swampland and Veeranam lake was dug to prevent flooding in Chidambaram temple. The Cholas perfectly planned everything. Chidambaram emerged as a new town while new settlements were created around Veeranam,” Mr. Sivaramakrishnan, who has done extensive study on the Chidambaram temple, said. “There are nine tanks around the temple. If they are maintained properly, groundwater in Chidambaram would not have turned saline,” he said. All the jala tharais — drainages — were repaired whenkumbhabishekamwas performed in 1987. But construction work over the years could have caused blockages. “The channels inside the temple are clean, and not clogged. But the unprecedented rain caused the problem,” said one of the Dikshitars. CPI(M) State secretary K. Balakrishnan, former MLA from Chidambaram, alleged that flooding happened because the temple was under the control of the Dikshitars and not in the hands of the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR&CE) Department. “They are answerable to none. Had it been under government control, we could have held the officials responsible and action would have been taken immediately,” he said. The AIADMK government could have enacted a law to take over the temple after the Supreme Court order in favour of the Dikshitars, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/poor-upkeep-of-tunnel-caused-flooding/article33261433.ece
06 December 2020||Bhubaneswar,||Odisha farmers park paddy on roads||Hundreds of farmers on Saturday stacked their paddy on major roads in different western Odisha districts, protesting against “faulty procurement procedures”. Farmers alleged that they were facing the possibility of selling paddy at much lower than market prices this harvest season as the government was not ready to procure a higher volume of paddy. Under the banner of the Western Odisha Farmer Orgnisations Coordination Committee (WOFOCC), farmers blocked the road at Sindurpank in Sambalpur district with trucks and tractor-loads of paddy. Protesting farmers in western Odisha districts such as Sambalpur, Deogarh, Balangir, Bargarh and Subarnapur said they were prepared for long haul. Hundreds of vehicles were found stranded on both sides of protest sites. The WOFOCC leaders announced that farmers would not budge from roads until the State government facilitated smooth procurement for them. “The State government announced it would procure only 19 quintals of paddy per acre of irrigated land and 13 quintals from one acre of non-irrigated land in the current procurement season. But farmers have produced around 27-28 quintals of paddy per acre this year,” said Ashok Pradhan, the convener of WOFOCC. Bumper production “Taking huge risks during the pandemic, farmers have come up with bumper paddy production. The government should have made prior assessment of the scenario. The government determined the volume of procurement by sitting in the capital Bhubaneswar. Now, farmers don’t know how to dispose of the excess produce,” Mr. Pradhan pointed out. Farmer leader Lingaraj said, “It is a dangerous trend of centralising the paddy procurement system, which has led to a grave situation. If the State government does not address farmers’ grievances, the protests will only be intensified.” Meanwhile, Randendra Pratap Swain, Minister, Food Supplies and Consumer Welfare and Cooperation, said vested interests were instigating farmers. “Paddy procurement is going on smoothly. As of today, 4,68,110 metric tonnes of paddy have been procured in the current kharif procurement season. The total volume of paddy procured is 56% higher than the corresponding period last year,” said Mr. Swain. Simultaneous verification of farmers’ identity was also being undertaken and tokens were also being issued, said the Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/odisha-farmers-park-paddy-on-roads/article33261286.ece
06 December 2020||New Delhi,||People have the right to demonstrate peacefully: U.N.||“People have a right to demonstrate peacefully and authorities need to let them do so,” Stephane Dujarric, spokesperson for the Secretary-General of the United Nations said on Saturday, on being asked about the farmers’ movement in India. The comment is the latest addition to a show of support for farmers. The remark comes a day after the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) described Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau’s support to the protest as “unacceptable interference”. The comment from the United Nations came even as 36 British Members of Parliament sent a joint letter to U.K. Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab, calling upon him to bring up the concerns of British citizens over the protests in Punjab and in the outskirts of Delhi. In a two page letter, Tanmanjeet Dhesi, Member of Parliament for Slough, expressed concern about the well-being of the protesting farmers and said, “These new laws (in India) present the Punjabis with a huge problem, with some describing it as a ‘death warrant’.” The comments from the U.K. and the United Nations have added to the arguments from Canada. Meanwhile,protests were held in multiple locations across Canada, where a large number of Indo-Canadians participated in drive-in demonstrations, many of which culminated at Indian diplomatic missions. The diplomatic spat between Canada and India was visible as External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar cancelled his participation in the December 7 meeting on the COVID-19 pandemic, which is to be led by Canada.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/people-have-the-right-to-demonstrate-peacefully-un/article33261998.ece
06 December 2020||CHENNAI,||Railways ban recruitment of ‘Bungalow Peons’||The Indian Railways has banned the recruitment of Telephone Attendant cum Dak Khalasi (TADK), better known as ‘Bungalow Peons’. Curtains were drawn on the age-old tradition of allowing senior Railways officers to nominate a person to be appointed as peons to work in their residences or camp offices. Despite stiff resistance from Railways Officers’ Associations from across the country, the Ministry of Railways went ahead with its plan to end the practice, and also directed General Managers of Zonal Railways and other establishments to review existing posts, sources in the Southern Railway said on Thursday. In an order issued on December 1, 2020, the Ministry of Railways said the engagement of “fresh face substitute as TADKs” would be discontinued with effect from August 6, 2020. Existing posts and incumbent TADKs would continue and all issues relating to their service conditions shall be governed by the existing policy. Earlier, when the Railways announced a review of the policy on TADKs, officers’ associations across the country wrote to the Chairman Railway Board against the move. About 4,200 TADKs are working at the residences of Railways officers as on September. Bungalow Peons are handpicked by Railways officers. They are categorised under Group-D and paid Level-1 pay matrix of the 7th Pay Commission, with starting pay of Rs. 18,000 plus allowances as admissible. Charges of ill-treatment Though the Bungalow Peons are to be engaged in attending phone calls and record movement of files at the residence of Railways officers, there were allegations of them being ill-treated or abused. In some cases that were reported, Zonal Railways were told to investigate. The move to do away with the concept of Bungalow Peons evoked stiff resistance from the officers. The Federation of Railway Officers Association in a representation said it led to a sense of “anguish and apprehension amongst railway officers’ fraternity”. Stating that a similar selection procedure existed in several judicial and civil administrations, the association said “a TADK selected through the officer concerned imparted a sense of safety, confidence, trust and privacy for the families of the officers”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/railways-ban-recruitment-of-bungalow-peons/article33261298.ece
06 December 2020||KANPUR DEHAT,||Four decades after strike by Phoolan, missing case diary delays wait for justice||Weakened by age and illness, Rajaram Singh, 72, rests on a cot in his verandah, solemnly visualising the massacre he bore witness to in his village Behmai in Uttar Pradesh almost four decades ago. His younger brother Banwari Singh and six other relatives were among those killed when a gang of dacoits allegedly led by Phoolan Devi massacred 20 villagers on February 14, 1981. The bloody scenes were famously replayed in the 1994 film Bandit Queen . Phoolan allegedly committed the massacre to avenge her rape and humiliation in Behmai by Lala Ram and Sri Ram — brothers and rival Thakur gang leaders — who had also shot dead her paramour and caste-fellow Vikram Mallah. The two brothers, like other dacoits, would often frequent Behmai. Before shooting dead the villagers, Phoolan’s gang had sought information about the two Thakurs. Long battle For the survivors and the kin of the massacre victims, including Mr. Rajaram, the main plaintiff and witness in the case, justice and closure remain elusive to this day as the legal battle carries on in a local court here. In January this year, hope was ignited when a special court (dacoity) fixed a date for pronouncing the verdict in the case. However, it was deferred multiple times on grounds that the original case diary was curiously found missing from the court records. Then struck COVID-19. The court instituted a probe, the outcome for which is still pending, to the chagrin of those in Behmai, a dusty village of 500-odd voters nestled in the ravines of the Yamuna valley, 100 km from Kanpur. Mr. Rajaram smells mischief. “If the files were missing then why did they record everyone’s statements and fix the date [for verdict]?” he asked. The victims were all men, aged 16-55 — 17 of them Thakurs. Two Dalit labourers from Rajpur and a Muslim from Sikandra, who were in the village on that day, were also killed, while six to seven others were injured. On the fateful day, Mr. Rajaram was returning from the fields when he noticed dacoits dressed in police fatigues storm the village. Hiding in the nearby bushes, he became a witness to the horror. “She [Phoolan] shouted ‘ Jai Kali mai ki ’ (hail mother Kali) and the badmaash (scoundrel) started firing. They must have been 40-45 dacoits,” recalls Mr. Rajaram. As a young man, he says he contemplated revenge but found it futile. “My soul flares up when I remember the killings. But we are so helpless,” he said. Behmai served as a haven for dacoits during those years owing to its rugged, undulated and treacherous ravines and dense overgrowth. Today, the ravines leading to the village have been cropped to accommodate widening pucca roads and the banks of the Yamuna are dotted with machines drilling for sand. A police outpost and a “martyr memorial” listing the names of the “unarmed, innocent and noble” persons killed by dacoits at 4 p.m. on February 14, 1981 are the only reminders of that era. Charges framed in 2012 The legal battle has crawled over the years. The charges against the five surviving accused dacoits were framed only in 2012. The initial FIR was against four dacoits, including Phoolan and Mustaqim, and 36 unnamed others. Three others, including Maan Singh, Phoolan’s close aide, are still absconding. The prosecution had in 2012 submitted that Maan Singh was running a restaurant in Chaura but never appeared before court. Most of the other accused have either died or were shot dead subsequently by police or rivals. Fifteen witnesses were examined in court, government counsel Raju Porwal said. Phoolan had herself surrendered and after spending 11 years in Madhya Pradesh jails, she was released in 1994 after the Mulayam Singh Yadav government in U.P. withdrew the cases against her. She was then elected as MP twice. But a local court set aside the government’s decision which was also upheld by the Allahabad High Court. Before Phoolan could surrender before the trial court to avail relief as per the Supreme Court’s directions, she was gunned down in 2001 outside her official residence in Delhi. Mr. Porwal says once inquiry into the missing case diary is over, the arguments of all the sides would have to be heard again before the final judgment. “Nothing vanishes. It may have got misplaced,” he said.  Even though justice may have been excruciatingly delayed, a conviction for the surviving accused would still bring a semblance of closure for many like Akbar Singh. He had gone to sell wood on that day and was lucky to escape the bullets, unlike his kin. “In some years, they will all die. But even if these four are hanged, our hearts will find some solace,” he said. On Friday, the court listed the next hearing for December 24.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/four-decades-after-strike-by-phoolan-missing-case-diary-defers-wait-for-justice/article33261305.ece
06 December 2020||JAIPUR,||Rajasthan CM accuses BJP of conspiring to topple govt.||Barely four months after the Congress regime won a confidence vote on the floor of the Rajasthan Assembly, Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Saturday accused the BJP of making renewed attempts to topple his government. Mr. Gehlot charged Home Minister Amit Shah with holding “secret meetings” with Congress MLAs earlier this year. “Our MLAs told me after meeting with Amit Shah and [Petroleum Minister] Dharmendra Pradhan that they were ashamed to see Mr. Shah as the Home Minister. There was a time when Sardar [Vallabhbhai] Patel was the Home Minister, and now it is him,” Mr. Gehlot said, while virtually inaugurating the Congress party’s office at Sheoganj in Sirohi district. Mr. Gehlot said BJP leaders were giving assurances to Congress MLAs that they had “pulled down five different governments and this [Rajasthan] would be the sixth”. “The BJP resorts to unethical acts because it is blinded by the greed for power,” he remarked. Reacting to Mr. Gehlot’s charge, BJP State president Satish Poonia said the Chief Minister had depicted his “maansik vichalan” (mental deviation) because of his “failure to provide good governance” during the last two years. Mr. Poonia took strong exception to the reference made to Mr. Shah and said the allegations made without any evidence had violated political ethics. The Gehlot government was on the brink of collapse in July after a rebel group of 19 MLAs, led by the then Deputy Chief Minister Sachin Pilot, had threatened to pull support. Mr. Gehlot had held the BJP responsible for the episode and accused the party of attempting to destabilise his government. The month-long uncertainty ended on August 14, when the government won the vote of confidence in a special session of the Assembly. The dissident MLAs returned to the party fold following the top leadership’s promise to appoint a committee to hear and address their grievances.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rajasthan-cm-accuses-bjp-of-conspiring-to-topple-govt/article33261624.ece
06 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Kerala approaches SC in actor Dileep case||Kerala has moved the Supreme Court against a State High Court decision to dismiss pleas made by both the State and the victim to transfer the trial of a sexual abuse and abduction case against Malayalam actor Dileep and some others. The State government, represented by advocate G. Prakash, said the trial so far had been marred by incidents of bias towards the prosecution and harassment of the victim. “During the trial, while the examination of PW1/victim was going on in-camera, the fifth accused took pictures inside the court hall using his mobile phone. Also, the photographs of the car in which the victim has been travelling to the court were taken,” the State government appeal informed the Supreme Court. “The trial court has remained a mute spectator despite the Prosecution taking these aspects to the notice of the trial court. The proceedings before the trial court is conducted in blatant violation of Cr.PC and Indian Evidence Act,” the State emphasised. ‘In camera’ trial The government said at least 40 defence lawyers were present in the “in-camera” cross-examination of the victim, who is an actress. By permitting a large number of lawyers inside the court hall, the very purpose of “in camera” trial was defeated, the State pointed out. The trial judge failed to stop the defence from continuously questioning the victim about the details of the sexual assault even as they questioned her moral character, the appeal said. At one point, the State said, the trial judge, for no apparent reason, got “agitated and made unnecessary remarks against the Special Public Prosecutor and the investigating agency and went to the extent of stating that what was going on is not prosecution but prostitution”. The State urged the Supreme Court to immediately stay the trial proceedings before the Special Court in Ernakulam. It asked the court to stay HC’s dismissal of transfer pleas as well. “The various incidents of bias and the approach of the judge towards the prosecutor and the victim were brought to the notice of the High Court as a ground for transfer. The complete deposition of the victim recorded in the vernacular language was also produced before the High Court to prove the alleged bias on the part of the trial judge. This was not considered by the High Court before rejecting the transfer petitions... ,” the State appeal said. The police version is that the actress was held captive and assaulted by some of the accused while on her way to Kochi. They had also taken a video of the incident. The allegation is that accused Dileep masterminded the conspiracy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kerala-approaches-sc-in-actor-dileep-case/article33261261.ece
06 December 2020||HYDERABAD,||Tiger attacks: SOP issued for 100 villages in Telangana||Cotton picking has become the most dreaded livelihood option for the inhabitants of about 100 villages/hamlets abutting forest areas in the Kagaznagar division. Fatal tiger attacks in quick succession in Digada tribal hamlet of Dahegaon mandal, and later in Manneguda hamlet in Penchikalpet mandal from the Kumram Bheem Asifabad district, have kept the agricultural labourers, especially women, off the cotton fields for some time. But later, they had to venture out as they could not afford to stay home for long. Three weeks after the first attack, and a week after the second, the Forest officials are clueless about the identity of the big cat which is resorting to the desperate assaults on humans. Meanwhile, several villagers have informed the authorities that they had heard a tiger roar in the vicinity. In view of the circumstances, a Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) has been issued by the Forest officials to the villagers, to be followed when they move outside their homes. As per the SOP, the villagers should avoid leaving strip gaps or pathways in agricultural fields, which means crops should be closely planted for 10 rows on the periphery without leaving any pathways. The villagers are asked to avoid using routes passing through forest areas, and when going to the fields for harvesting or other operations, they should move in the groups of minimum of eight to 10 people. One person in the group should be deployed as sentry, whose duty it is to beat drum or whistle to scare the animals. People working in the field and also shepherds have been asked to wear face mask on the backside of the head to deter the tiger. Shepherds have also been asked not to take the cattle deep inside the forest for grazing, and instead, stay within half kilometre from the village. They should ensure departure after 9 a.m. and return by 4 p.m. Farmers should stay on machans while guarding the crop, and every villager venturing into the field will have to wield a stick with small bell tied to it. Village protection committees have been constituted with sarpanch as chairperson, and the Forest Beat Officer as Convenor. “The Forest Beat Officers are coordinating with the village sarpanches, to get the list of labourers who are going for cotton harvesting every day. The sarpanch has to ensure that one person stands guard while others are picking the cotton. Our beat officers are also taking volunteers inside the forest to track the tiger,” an official informed. The department has distributed masks for the villagers, and will sponsor drums and whistles too, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tiger-attacks-sop-issued-for-100-villages-in-telangana/article33261265.ece
06 December 2020||KANNUR,||POCSO case against Kannur Child Welfare Committee chief||The Thalassery police registered a case under the provisions of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act against the chairman of the Child Welfare Committee in Kannur on Saturday. The police registered the case against E.D. Joseph on the basis of a confidential statement given by the girl to a magistrate. The 17-year-old girl was sexually assaulted when she came for counselling. The Child Welfare Committee is the district-level authority that considers child abuse cases and proposes solutions. According to the police, the girl was taken to the office of the committee at Eranholi, Thalassery, for counselling on October 21. She told the magistrate that Mr. Joseph had misbehaved with her when she appeared for counselling. During the course of the counselling, the girl complained, he used sexually explicit and derogatory language. The girl came for counselling in connection with a POCSO case registered within the Kannur Kudiyanmala police station limits. When contacted, Mr. Joseph said he had not abused the girl and had only sat down with women councillors and talked to her about what had happened. “I had asked if there was any sexual intercourse to know what had happened and if there was a deliberate effort to implicate him in the [earlier] case,” he said. Such complaints would affect the working of the Child Welfare Committee itself, he observed. According to the Thalassery police, they have sought information from the Kudiyanmala police station where the case was registered and would take a statement from the chairman of the Child Welfare Committee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pocso-case-against-kannur-child-welfare-committee-chief/article33261268.ece
06 December 2020||Bengaluru/Hubbali,||Karnataka bandh: police detain Vatal||The Karnataka police detained over a hundred protesters from Kannada organisations who started gathering at Town Hall by Saturday around 10 a.m. to protest against the formation of the Maratha Development Corporation. The police also detained leaders across the city to prevent the gatherings. Narayana Gowda, president of the Karnataka Rakshana Vedike, and other members of the organisation were detained at Maurya Circle while they were heading towards the Chief Minister’s residence. Vatal Nagaraj, president of the Kannada Chaluvali Vatal Paksha, was also detained at Town Hall. Mr. Nagaraj accused Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa of being anti-Kannada for quelling the protest and claimed the police had detained 30,000 protesters across the State. Kannada organisations had planned to march to the Chief Minister’s residence, but were unsuccessful due to the heavy police deployment at Shivananda circle and in and around the Chief Minister’s residence. While a main rally will be held at Freedom Park, smaller dharnas are being staged across the city. BMTC buses and autos were functioning as usual, though a section of taxi drivers on aggregator apps are supporting the bandh. Stones thrown at buses Two incidents of miscreants pelting buses with stones were reported in K.R. Puram and Chandapura. Many shops at Gandhinagar and Chickpet area remained shut to support the bandh. However, normal life remained unaffected in other parts of the city. The Karnataka Bandh received a lukewarm response in a majority of the districts, even in the the Bombay Karnataka region, and normal life went on as usual amid the protests.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/karnataka-bandh-police-detain-vatal/article33261272.ece
06 December 2020||New Delhi,||MPs raise concerns over exemptions in privacy Bill||Ten members of the 30-member joint parliamentary committee on the Data Protection Bill, 2019, have moved amendments against the provision in the legislation giving power to the Central government to exempt any agency of the government from application of the Act. The members have said this clause makes the entire act infructuous. The Bill seeks to provide protection of personal data of individuals and was introduced in December last year in Lok Sabha. It was referred to the joint parliament, headed by BJP MP Meenakshi Lekhi, in February this year. Congress MPs Jairam Ramesh, Manish Tewari, and Gaurav Gogoi, Trinamool Congress MPs Derek O’ Brien and Mahua Moitra, along with Biju Janta Dal MP Bharatuhari Mahtab and Amar Patnaik, BSP MP Ritesh Pandey, Shiv Sena MP Shrikant Eknath Shinde and BJP MP Rajeev Chandrashekhar have moved amendments to this contentious Clause 35 of the legislation. The Hindu has accessed a copy of the amendments moved by the committee members. Invoking “sovereignty and integrity of India”, “public order”, “friendly relations with foreign states” and “security of the state”, the legislation gives powers to the Central government to suspend all or any of the provisions of this Act for government agencies. Five of the MPs — Jairam Ramesh Derek O’ Brien, Mahua Moitra, Ritesh Pandey and Amar Patnaik — want the act to be suitably amended, vesting the power in Parliament instead of the Central government to approve any such exemption. Congress MP Gaurav Gogoi and Manish Tewari want judicial approval for it. While moving the amendment, Mr. Ramesh argued, “The powers given to the Central government for exemptions are all-encompassing so as to make the legislation virtually infructuous.” Mr. Tewari while moving his amendment to this clause, submitted that since privacy has been held to be a fundamental right, it, therefore, is subject to the rigors of Article 21 of the Constitution of India and an exception cannot be made for the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mps-raise-concerns-over-exemptions-in-privacy-bill/article33261296.ece
06 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Unsafe injections caused HIV surge in Unnao in 2017: ICMR||“Unsafe injection exposure during treatment-seeking and receipt of intramuscular injection in the last five years were independently associated with HIV sero-reactive (presence of antibodies) status,” noted the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) on Saturday, as the reason for the surge of HIV in Unnao, Uttar Pradesh, in 2017-18. The Council released its findings from a case-control study conducted on the sudden increase in the detection of HIV among attendees of the Integrated Counselling and Testing Centre (ICTC) located in a district hospital, Unnao, in 2017. “The findings have helped establish that the infection arising from blood transfusion, invasive surgical procedures, tattooing, tonsuring or skin piercing was not related to the surge in the cases,” said ICMR in its release. It added that the study was done on individuals who were detected HIV seroreactive during November 2017-April 2018 from three locations, namely Premganj, Karimuddinpur and Chakmeerapur in the Bangarmau block of Unnao district. The study participants were interviewed based on various risk practices and invasive treatment procedures. They were also tested for HIV and other bio-markers reflecting unsafe injecting and sexual exposures. Along with this, secondary data analysis on three time points was performed, which showed a rising trend of HIV among attendees of specific ICTCs in the district. Speaking about the study, the corresponding author, Samiran Panda, Director, ICMR National AIDS Research Institute, Pune said, “The study has been critical to understanding the outbreak and the challenges associated with unsafe injection practices. A comprehensive approach should be adopted with interventions like increasing access to auto-disabled syringes and needles, empowering local communities and implementing effective regulatory practices.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/unsafe-injections-caused-hiv-surge-in-unnao-in-2017-icmr/article33261303.ece
06 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||States with stressed groundwater top in cereal trade: study||States with critically low groundwater reserves were responsible for 41%, or about 38.6 million tonnes, of domestic cereal trade. This worked out to nearly 39% of the groundwater being used up in producing and trading cereals among States. Moreover, a further 21% (19.6 Mt) of domestically produced cereals were exported from six States with ‘semicritical’ to ‘critical’ groundwater status equivalent to 32% of groundwater, according to an analysis by scientists spanning multiple institutions in India and abroad. The study appears in the peer-reviewed Environmental Research Letters . Cereals are the source of about half the energy that an average Indian gets from her diet. Within them, rice and wheat dominate cereal production and it’s also known that they are intensely water-consumptive crops. For this study, the researchers relied on mathematical modelling and used data-sets from 2011-12 — the most updated they say — that had information on inter-State trade of cereals, domestic cereal production, cost of transportation by rail and road between states. From this the “water footprint” of producing and transporting cereals was estimated. Previous studies of embedded water flow in agricultural production have usually focussed on international movements — for instance the amount of water that was lost when a country imported a food crop from another, whereas this focussed on domestic movements and incorporates the role of the public distribution system as well as international outflows, the authors note. Trade patterns varied between PDS (public distribution system) and non-PDS cereals. The majority (58%; 58.0 Mt) of inter-State cereal trade occurred through the PDS. “Our findings reiterate the substantial potential for balancing water resources through the trade of crops in India, either in addition to or in place of large-scale infrastructure projects,” say the authors. The institutions involved in the study were the Kalinga Institute of Technology, Bhubaneshwar; the Ashoka Trust for Research in Ecology and the Environment, Bengaluru; the London School of Hygeine and Tropical Medicine, University College London and the Brandenburg University of Technology, Germany.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/states-with-stressed-groundwater-trade-in-most-cereals-study/article33261301.ece
06 December 2020||Bengaluru,||Alternative questions may be offered in CLAT||The Consortium of National Law Universities will consider the option of giving alternative questions in the Common Law Admission Test (CLAT) 2021 to persons with disabilities, particularly visually challenged candidates, so that they are not at any disadvantage compared to other candidates. In a press release, Faizan Mustafa who is a member of the consortium said that the issue was raised by Supreme Court Judge, Justice D.Y. Chandrachud, who highlighted the hardships faced by persons with disabilities in answering some of the questions in CLAT. Justice Chandrachud had raised this issue at the virtual International Summit on Legal Professionals with Disabilities held earlier this week. Following this Prof. Mustafa in a press release has said that the consortium believes in a creating a level playing field for all candidates. He has requested Sudhir Krishnaswamy, Vice Chancellor of National Law School of India University and Secretary-Treasurer of the consortium to include this matter in the agenda of the next Executive Committee meeting. CLAT is the admission test for all students who aspire to get into the premier national law universities across the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/alternative-questions-may-be-offered-in-clat/article33261263.ece
06 December 2020||December 06 2020 00:00 IST,||India set to be largest buyer of vaccines: study||Bharat Biotech and Zydus-Cadila would also add about 400 million doses annually. In brief, the numbers appear reasonable over 2021 and 2022, said Dr. Jameel, director of the Trivedi School of Biosciences, Ashoka University. “We can expect the first 250 million to be vaccinated in 2021; the remaining in the following years. The problem will not be doses, but the ability to deliver them,”Dr. Jameel explained. He noted that 1.6 billion doses would cover 800 million people or 60% of India’s population. This, the virologist said, should be enough to develop herd immunity, a form of indirect protection from infectious disease that occurs when a sufficient percentage of a population has become immune. The first 500 million doses, the virologist said, are likely to go to 250 million people in the group that includes frontline workers, healthcare workers, sanitation, emergency services, and security services. This group also includes the elderly above 65 and patients with comorbidities. “Unreliable estimates” Immunologist Satyajit Rath said there is currently no particularly reliable estimate of the percentage of community coverage needed to be vaccinated in order to reach the point of ‘herd immunity’. The reliability of models being used for these estimations is far from clear, he stressed. Since all the vaccine candidates that are being discussed as purchased have two-dose vaccine regimens, the current number for India would vaccinate, at best, 80 crore (800 million) people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-is-biggest-buyer-of-covid-19-vaccines-study/article33261259.ece
06 December 2020||December 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Farmers set ultimatum for repeal of farm laws||Earlier in the day, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, along with the Home and Defence Ministers met with Mr. Tomar and Food and Railways Minister Piyush Goyal, who have been leading the talks. However, there were no fresh proposals presented at the meeting, with both sides simply reiterating their positions. Underlining the continued trust deficit, farm leaders again refused to eat the food provided by the government at Vigyan Bhavan, preferring to bring in a meal from a local langar, or community kitchen. Saturday’s meeting was the fifth round between the government and farm unions since the agitation began in Punjab over two months ago after the contentious laws were passed by Parliament. Meanwhile, large groups of farmers from Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, and representatives from other States joined the tens of thousands of farmers from Punjab in the protest on the borders of the national capital. Speaking to journalists after the meeting, Mr. Tomar said he had assured farmers that procurement at minimum support prices would continue and State-run mandis would be strengthened, contrary to their fears. “The government is willing to listen to all the concerns of farmers regarding these laws and make needed changes to reassure them,” he said. “We wanted the farmer leaders to give some concrete suggestions regarding their concerns, but we could not get that,” he said, adding that suggestions are awaited. “The government kept asking us for specific suggestions on which clauses we want to add, what we want to remove. We made it clear that we are not here to discuss any amendments. Our demand has remained the same from the very beginning; we want a full repeal [of the laws],” said Mahila Kisan Adhikaar Manch representative Kavitha Kuruganti. Some delegates got so fed up with the government’s stand that they threatened a walk-out, but then decided on the silent protest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/farmers-set-ultimatum-for-repeal-of-farm-laws/article33261262.ece
06 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Naming of RGCB unit after RSS icon sparks row||The CPI(M) and the Congress on Saturday opposed the move of the Centre to name the second campus of the Rajiv Gandhi Centre for Biotechnology (RGCB) here after Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) ideologue M.S. Golwalkar. CPI(M) acting State secretary A. Vijayaraghavan said he saw the bid as a stock move of the Sangh Parivar to deepen communal divisions for political gains. CPI(M) Polit Bureau member M.A. Baby said Golwalkar had sowed communal hatred and division in the country. The Central should choose the name of a scientist for the new institute instead. Union Minister for Science and Technology Harsh Vardhan had kicked up a row on Friday by naming the new facility ‘Shri Guruji Madhav Sadashiv Golwalkar National Centre for Complex Disease in Cancer and Viral Infection’. Reactions In a letter to Mr. Vardhan, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said the State had handed over the RGCB to the Centre to develop it into a facility that met international standards. The State government believed that the campus was best named after some eminent Indian scientist of international repute. Shashi Tharoor, MP, in a Facebook post, asked the Centre whether it should "memorialise a bigoted Hitler-admirer who in a 1966 speech to VHP (Vishwa Hindu Parishad) asserted the supremacy of religion over science?" Dr. Tharoor suggested the name of Dr. P. Palpu, 19th century social reformer and renowned bacteriologist, for the new institute. Dr. Palpu was an expert in serum therapy and tropical medicine from Cambridge and Director of the Vaccine Institute and Fellow of the Royal Institute of Public Health. Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala penned a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to preserve the name of the late Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi for the institute. He pointed out that Rajiv Gandhi was a leader of scientific temperament who encouraged research and innovation. BJP leader Pon Radhakrishnan, who was campaigning in Kerala, defended the announcement. “He (Golwalkar) is a nationalist. Do not put him in a small circle,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/row-over-naming-of-rgcb-unit-after-rss-icon/article33261276.ece
06 December 2020||CHENNAI,||Depression turns into low pressure area||The depression over the Gulf of Mannar, close to the coast of Ramanathapuram of Tamil Naidu, remained stationary and became a well-marked low pressure area on Saturday. It was expected that the low-pressure area would bring heavy to very heavy rain in isolated areas of Ramanathapuram, Madurai, Virudhunagar and Thoothukudi districts. Thunderstorms, with moderate rain, will occur at many places in Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Karaikal, the India Meteorological Department said. Forecast for Chennai Also, the wind speed will be nearly 40-50 kmph, gusting to 60 kmph. Isolated areas in Sivaganga, Pudukkottai, Theni, Dindigul, Coimbatore, the Nilgiris, Cuddalore, Thanjavur and Tiruvarur ts are likely to get heavy rain. Till Tuesday, heavy rain may lash isolated parts of the State. Kothavacherry in Cuddalore received 19 cm, followed by Nagapattinam and Karaikal with 16 cm each, in 24 hours till 8.30 a.m. on Saturday. Chennai will remain pleasant with intermittent rain for the next two days. “The sky condition is likely to be generally cloudy. Thunderstorm — with moderate rain, heavy at times — is likely in some areas,” the India Meteorological Department said. In the city, the weather station at the DGP Office received 12 cm of rainfall and Anna University 11 cm over a 24-hour period ending 8.30 a.m. on Saturday. While MGR Nagar received 9 cm, Shollinganallur got 8 cm. The maximum and minimum temperatures were 25.4 degrees Celsius and 23.9 degrees Celsius.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/depression-turns-into-low-pressure-area/article33261370.ece
06 December 2020||December 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Seven arrested under anti-conversion law in U.P.||Seven of the eight accused have been arrested, said the officer. Sources said they included relatives of the youth. Efforts are on to arrest the youth and bring back the woman, said police. Seven police teams have been formed to search for the two in U.P. and Punjab. The new Ordinance was also invoked in a case in Mansoorpur in Muzaffarnagar, where two Muslim men were booked for allegedly trying to force a married Hindu woman to convert. Sections 504 (criminal intimidation), 506 and 120 B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code were also invoked, said police. A case was also registered under Sections 3 and 5 of the ordinance in Mau district in Purvanchal. A prominent gold trader, in a complaint lodged at the Chiraiyakot Police Station, has accused a local man of allegedly abducting his daughter on the eve of her wedding. A 21-year-old man in Bareilly, Uwaish Ahmed, had become the first person to be booked under the new ordinance against unlawful conversion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/seven-arrested-under-anti-conversion-law-in-up/article33261282.ece
06 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Active caseload lowest in 136 days: Health Ministry||India’s active caseload of COVID-19 has dropped below 4.10 lakh (4,09,689) on Saturday and this is the lowest after 136 days. The active cases were 4,11,133 on July 22, said data released by the Health Ministry . “The present active caseload consists of 4.26% of the positive cases. The new recoveries have led to a net decline of 6,393 in the active cases,’’ it said. India also reported 512 case fatalities in the past 24 hours with 10 States/UTs accounting for 78.32% of them. Maharashtra saw the maximum casualties (127) followed by Delhi (73) and West Bengal (52) daily deaths, respectively. The Ministry said the daily new recoveries have been more than the daily cases registered from the last eight days. “The number of daily new cases in the last 24 hours is 36,652 while 42,533 cases recovered and discharged in the last 24 hours. The rising recoveries have also improved the recovery rate to 94.28%. The recovered cases stand at 9,058,822. The gap between recovered cases and active cases is nearing 86.50 lakh and presently stands at 8,649,133.” New cases It said 76.90% of the new cases are from 10 States and UTs — Kerala reported the highest daily new cases at 5,718 followed by Maharashtra (5,229) and Delhi (4,067). Also 78.06% of the new recovered cases are observed to be concentrated in 10 States/UTs with Maharashtra reporting the maximum number of single day recoveries — 6,776.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/active-caseload-lowest-in-136-days-health-ministry/article33261288.ece
06 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Minister who took trial vaccine tests positive||A little over two weeks after the Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij participated in the Phase 3 trial of Bharat Biotech’s COVID-19 vaccine, Covaxin, he tweeted on Saturday morning that he has tested positive for the virus. Responding to the social media post, the Union Health Ministry said: “Antibodies against the infection build up in a human being only after a specific number of days pass after the second dose of the vaccine is taken, since this is a two-dose vaccine. The Minister in question has taken only one dose of the vaccine.” Bharat Biotech said the clinical trials of Covaxin are based on a two-dose schedule, given 28 days apart. Reacting to the incident the Hyderabad-based drug maker said the vaccine efficacy will be determined 14 days post the second dose. “Covaxin has been designed to be efficacious when subjects receive both doses. Safety is our primary criteria in vaccine development,” the company said in its statement. It added that one of the three COVID vaccine candidates being tested in India, Covaxin will be administered to 26,000 subjects across 25 sites. The statement also noted that Bharat Biotech has supplied more than 4 billion doses, to more than 80 countries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/minister-who-took-trial-vaccine-tests-positive/article33261292.ece
06 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Farm laws: State may move SC||Kerala is likely to move the Supreme Court against the contentious farm laws passed by the Centre in September. Agriculture Minister V.S. Sunil Kumar on Saturday submitted a file to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s office urging the government to approach the apex court against the laws at the earliest. A final decision on the matter is expected shortly. The State Agriculture Department has sought urgent intervention of the State government for moving the Supreme Court on the basis of legal advice received from the Law Department. The department questioned the constitutional validity of the laws on the grounds that they encroached upon the terrain of States since agriculture was a State subject under the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution. Contemplates legislation The department had also explored the possibility of countering the contentious laws through legislation. The Law Department, in its advice, reportedly green-signalled both the options. However, the department is understood to have favoured the option of approaching the apex court. The State government opposed the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020; the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020, calling them inimical to the interests of farmers. Food security  Farmer organisations in the State had alleged that the laws, especially the provisions favouring contract farming, would jeopardise the nation's food security and surrender the sector and farmers to profit-seeking corporate entities. The laws had also drawn strong protests from the Congress in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/farm-laws-state-may-move-sc/article33261277.ece
06 December 2020||Kolkata,||Roy named conspirator in TMC leader’s murder case||BJP leader Mukul Roy has been named a “conspirator” in the second supplementary chargesheet filed by West Bengal CID in a court at Ranaghat in Nadia district on Saturday in the murder of Trinamool Congress MLA Satyajit Biswas, sources in the agency said. The BJP leader has been found to have been “very actively involved primarily as a conspirator” in the killing of Biswas in February 2019, they said. When contacted, Mr. Roy rubbished the charges and said that he had “never believed in violence in politics”. “I challenge Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, who is also the police minister to say it in public that I have such kind of taste. I was never involved in such things when I was with her party and not now when I am a member of another political party. I have total faith in the judiciary of our country,” Mr. Roy said. BJP’s national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya termed the CID ‘s action against Mr. Roy as the “conspiracy of the Chief Minister”. “Mamta Banerjee’s conspiracy continues. The false murder chargesheet against Mukul Roy shows how she is trying to suppress the Opposition. When Mamata Banerjee herself is a guest for (a) few days she shoud think what is going to happen after this,” Mr. Vijayvargiya said. Biswas was shot dead during a Saraswati Puja event in February 2019.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/roy-named-conspirator-in-tmc-leaders-murder-case/article33261625.ece
06 December 2020||Kolkata,||Akali Dal, Trinamool to back farmers||Representatives of Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Saturday met Trinamool Congress leaders in Kolkata and said that political parties should throw their weight behind farmers agitating against the agriculture laws. The SAD team was led by the party’s senior vice-president Prem Singh Chandumajra who meet Trinamool leader in the Lok Sabha Sudip Bandyopadhyay. Speaking to journalists, both the leaders said that the Centre should withdraw the agriculture laws. Mr. Bandyopadhay said that there are provisions for the legislation to be sent to the select committee or the standing committee of Parliament. The TMC leader said that if the Centre wished to retain the system of grain procurement by State agencies, then there should have been mention of minimum support price (MSP) in the farm Bills. Mr. Chandumajra, who also spoke to Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee two days back said he would meet the leaders of other political parties also to mobilise support for the farmers. The SAD leader said that by middle of December a meeting with all political parties could be held in Delhi on the issue. The TMC leader also said that the party will join all Opposition parties in supporting the farmers, hold meeting with them and if required will give joint memorandum to the President. On the issue of Bharat bandh on December 8 called by agitating farmers, Mr. Bandopadhyay said that TMC would extend moral support to the issue but the party workers would not take part in enforcing it. The TMC has been opposing bandh since coming to power in the State since 2011. Ms. Banerjee has expressed support to the protesting farmers and has spoken to them. The TMC will hold protests in Kolkata from December 8 to 10. Ms. Banerjee is likely to address party supporters on the issue on December 10.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/akali-dal-trinamool-to-back-farmers/article33261293.ece
06 December 2020||New Delhi,||Left parties to back farmers’ stir on Dec. 8||The five Left parties have come together to extend support to the farmers’ organisation that have called for a Bharat Bandh on December 8. They have also called upon other political parties to come forward to stand with the farmer’s cause. “The Left parties condemn the RSS/BJP’s malicious campaign, on preposterous charges, against the struggle of our annadatas [food providers] to safeguard Indian agriculture and the country’s food security,” the joint statement read. It is signed by Sitaram Yechury, general secretary of the CPI(M), D Raja, general secretary of the CPI, Dipankar Bhattacharya, general secretary of the CPI(ML), Debabrata Biswas, general secretary of AIFB and Manoj Bhattaharya, general secretary of RSP. The Left parties support the farmers demand for the scrapping of the three Agriculture laws and the Electricity (Amendment) Bill, 2020. “The Left parties appeal to all other political parties and forces who stand with the farmers cause and have demanded the repeal of these laws to extend their support and cooperation to the December 8 bandh call,” the statement added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/left-parties-to-support-farmers-bharat-bandh/article33261295.ece
06 December 2020||Ahmedabad,||G.R. Udhvani, Gujarat HC judge, passes away||Justice G.R. Udhvani of the Gujarat High Court died of COVID-19 at a private hospital in Ahmedabad on Saturday. The 59-year-old was elevated as a High Court judge in 2012. He joined the Bench as a judge in the Ahmedabad City Civil Court in 1997.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/gr-udhvani-gujarat-hc-judge-passes-away/article33261297.ece
06 December 2020||JAIPUR,||BJP trying to topple my govt.: Gehlot||Barely four months after the Congress regime won a confidence vote on the floor of the Rajasthan Assembly, Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Saturday accused the BJP of making renewed attempts to topple his government. Mr. Gehlot charged Home Minister Amit Shah with holding “secret meetings” with Congress MLAs earlier this year. “Our MLAs told me after meeting with Amit Shah and [Petroleum Minister] Dharmendra Pradhan that they were ashamed to see Mr. Shah as the Home Minister. There was a time when Sardar [Vallabhbhai] Patel was the Home Minister, and now it is him,” Mr. Gehlot said, while virtually inaugurating the Congress party’s office at Sheoganj in Sirohi district. Mr. Gehlot said BJP leaders were giving assurances to Congress MLAs that they had “pulled down five different governments and this [Rajasthan] would be the sixth”. “The BJP has been conspiring like this. It resorts to unethical acts because it is blinded by the greed for power,” he remarked. The Gehlot government was on the brink of collapse in July this year after a rebel group of 19 MLAs, led by the then deputy CM Sachin Pilot, had threatened to withdraw support. The month-long uncertainty created by the rebellion within the ruling party’s ranks ended on August 14, when the government won the vote of confidence in the Assembly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-trying-to-topple-my-govt-gehlot/article33261309.ece
06 December 2020||Jaipur,||Red alert at all Rajasthan reserves, sanctuaries after tiger spotted with wire snare around neck||The Rajasthan Forest department on Saturday sounded a red alert at all reserves, sanctuaries and parks in the State as incidents of hunting, poaching and animal traps have come to the fore. The order comes against the backdrop of a camera trap footage showing a Ranthambore tiger, T-108, with a wire snare around its neck.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/red-alert-at-all-rajasthan-reserves-sanctuaries-after-tiger-spotted-with-wire-snare-around-neck/article33261626.ece
06 December 2020||New Delhi,||‘Akbar didn’t have sterling reputation’||Journalist Priya Ramani on Saturday told a Delhi court hearing a criminal defamation complaint filed by former Union Minister M.J. Akbar against her that he did not have a ‘sterling reputation’ as claimed by him. Ms. Ramani, who had accused Mr. Akbar of sexual misconduct around 20 years ago, stated this through senior advocate Rebecca John during the final hearing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/akbar-didnt-have-sterling-reputation/article33261537.ece
06 December 2020||New Delhi,||Petrol price at 2-year high of Rs. 83 per litre, diesel at Rs. 73||Petrol price on Saturday breached Rs. 83 a litre in Delhi for the first time in over two years after a rally in internati-onal oil prices. Petrol price was raised by 27 paise a litre and diesel by 25 paise. The price of petrol in Delhi rose to Rs. 83.13 a litre and diesel to Rs. 73.32. The Congress sought a rollback in fuel prices.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/petrol-price-at-2-year-high-of-rs-83-per-litre-diesel-at-rs-73/article33261307.ece
06 December 2020||Guwahati,||Visit church on Christmas, pay a price: Bajrang Dal warns Assam Hindus||A unit of the Bajrang Dal in Assam’s Barak Valley has threatened Hindus with dire consequences if they visit any church on Christmas. “Hindus will pay a price for visiting churches on Christmas,” Dal’s Cachar district general secre-tary Mithu Nath said. The decision was in response to tribal Christian groups locking temples and Hindu spiritual centres in Shillong, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/visit-church-on-christmas-pay-a-price-bajrang-dal-warns-assam-hindus/article33261310.ece
06 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State sees 1,366 cases, 15 deaths||The State reported 1,366 fresh cases and 15 fatalities on Saturday, even as 1,407 persons were discharged after treatment for COVID-19. Tamil Nadu’s tally touched 7,88,920. As fresh infections dipped further, Perambalur recorded no new cases, while eight districts saw under 10. Chennai reported 353 cases, followed by Coimbatore with 137 and Salem with 97. While 88 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Chengalpattu, Tiruvallur saw 67 cases and Tiruppur 66. Erode and Kancheepuram recorded 46 and 44 cases respectively. Ten districts recorded deaths due to COVID-19. Of this, Chennai registered four deaths, while Chengalpattu and Tiruvallur saw two deaths each. Coimbatore, Dindigul, Kancheepuram, Madurai, Thoothukudi, Tiruppur and Virudhunagar recorded one death each. All 15 persons had co-morbidities. Except for two, the remaining were aged over 50. The youngest was a 34-year-old man from Chennai with SIADH (Syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion) and old pulmonary tuberculosis.  Till date, 7,66,261 persons have been discharged after treatment, while the State’s toll stands at 11,777. As many as 10,882 persons are still under treatment. This includes 3,336 persons in Chennai, 932 in Coimbatore, 564 in Chengalpattu and 535 in Salem. As many as 70,881 samples were tested in the last 24 hours, taking the total number of samples tested so far to 1,24,05,328.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-sees-1366-cases-15-deaths/article33261410.ece
06 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tankers carrying non-chlorinated water will be penalised: Minister||Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar on Saturday said all health inspectors were advised to ensure proper chlorination of water at all pumping stations in the State, and private lorries that transport water without chlorination will face action from the Health Department. “In all places, we are taking up chlorination of water at the source and end points. At this time of rain, private lorries that transport water without chlorination will face stringent action. Chlorination is very important. We have formed special teams through the Food Safety Department to monitor the chlorination of water during rains and flooding especially in districts such as Cuddalore, Nagapattinam, Tiruvarur and Thanjavur,” he told reporters on the sidelines of a meeting held with Vishvas Sarang, Medical Education Minister, Madhya Pradesh. The Minister said in the last one week, adequate precautionary measures had been taken throughout the State following Cyclones Nivar and Burevi. “A total of 8,456 medical camps were held till date. There were 435 teams of hospitals-on-wheels and they organised 3,657 camps. We also had 4,799 static camps at shelters. A total of 2,00,953 persons were screened in these camps,” he said. Bleaching powder and liquid chlorine were kept ready in addition to vehicle-mounted fogging machines. Vaccine guidelines To a question on the COVID-19 vaccine, he said the Centre had issued guidelines for the State, including on cold chain and storage points. Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan said the medical camps would be intensified from Sunday. He urged people not to become complacent as COVID-19 cases were gradually declining. “We have lifted swabs from 31,000 persons through these medical camps,” he said. Mr. Sarang said this was a knowledge-sharing visit to Chennai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tankers-carrying-non-chlorinated-water-will-be-penalised-minister/article33262049.ece
06 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Newly relaid road in north Chennai presents a rough ride||A road that was relaid a few months ago is back to being a nightmare for hundreds of road-users. The stretch of Dr. Ambedkar College Road at the Ganeshapuram subway is again ridden with potholes, giving motorists not only a back-breaking ride but also a risky one. For a stretch that has remained damaged for several years, the relaying came as a relief to residents of various parts of north Chennai who regularly travel on it. But the new surface wore off too soon during the rain, the road-users said. A resident of Ganeshapuram said the road from the subway to the Kannigapuram playground was perennially in a battered state. “It was relaid three to four months ago. As the rain started, the surface began wearing off. Now the condition is worse than before. It is unsafe to take children on the two-wheeler as there is a risk of our falling while trying to ride on this pothole-ridden stretch. As a result, vehicles move very slowly, resulting in traffic jams at peak hours,” he said. Inundation is nothing new at the subway, the road-users point out. When it rains, the potholes go under water making it difficult for the road-users. As Vignesh, a resident of MKB Nagar, puts it, “It is a back-breaking and risky ride. If a motorist who is new to this stretch rides on it, he/she will not know where the potholes are...” N. Umpathy, a Kalyanapuram resident, said, “I used to travel to Basin Bridge through Sathyamurthy Nagar Main Road. But after traffic was diverted on Basin Bridge Road, I had to go through the Ganeshapuram subway. It is very difficult to commute on this stretch regularly...” A Greater Chennai Corporation official said all road works would resume after monsoon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/newly-relaid-road-in-north-chennai-presents-a-rough-ride/article33262042.ece
06 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Port Trust not entitled to exemption from urban land tax, says Madras High Court||The Madras High Court has held that the Chennai Port Trust (CPT) is not entitled to exemption from payment of urban land tax to the State government under the provisions of the Tamil Nadu Urban Land Tax Act of 1996. Chief Justice Amreshwar Pratap Sahi and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy ruled that the CPT had failed to establish that it was entitled to exemption granted, under Section 29 (a) of the Act, to lands owned by the State government or the Centre. The judgment was delivered while allowing a writ appeal preferred by the Commissioner for Urban Land Ceiling and Urban Land Tax. The first Division Bench overturned a ruling passed by a single judge of the High Court last year in favour of the CPT. The issue in question were land originally owned by the Madras Dock Labour Board (MDLB), a body corporate constituted under Section 5-A of the Dock Workers (Regulation of Employment) Act of 1948. In 1998, MDLB was merged with the CPT. After the merger, all assets and funds of the MDLB were vested with the Board of Trustees of the CPT, which refused to pay urban land tax on the ground that both the entities were fully controlled by the Centre, and hence the land technically belonged to the latter. Rejecting the contention, the first Division Bench pointed out that the MDLB was a body corporate empowered to own lands and it had been paying urban land tax before its merger without claiming that the lands were owned by the Centre. Therefore, the evidence on record showed that the MDLB was both the ostensible and real owner of the lands. Further, there was a June 30, 1976, circular which categorically stated that lands owned by the CPT would not be eligible for exemption, the Bench added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/port-trust-not-entitled-to-exemption-from-urban-land-tax-says-madras-high-court/article33262033.ece
06 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Corporation to supply free food in low-income neighbourhoods||Starting Sunday, the Greater Chennai Corporation will provide free cooked food on the doorstep of all 26 lakh residents in low-income neighbourhoods. Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Saturday asked officials to give cooked food to all slum-dwellers — 26 lakh individuals, comprising around 5.3 lakh families. The food will be supplied till December 13. Corporation Commissioner G. Prakash said the food would be supplied to the poorest families to compensate for the loss of livelihood. “The Corporation machinery will work in full swing to undertake this great service,” he said. Corporation Deputy Commissioner (Works) Meghanatha Reddy said 888 slums had been identified. “We will provide breakfast, lunch and dinner to all the residents. The assistant revenue officers and the zonal officers will finalise the locations. We will identify new workers to cook food at each locality. Amma Canteen staff workers will not be used. Amma Canteens will also be run during this period,” he said. Civic officials in each of the 200 wards have started assessing the economic condition of the poor residents after the COVID-19 pandemic and the rain brought on by Cyclone Nivar to design schemes to protect their livelihood. The Central government’s inspection team will visit the residents of rain-affected areas on Sunday at Ram Nagar in Velachery, the Pallikaranai marshland, and Tsunami Colony in Semmencherry in south Chennai. In north Chennai, it will visit Alagappa Road and Jothi Venkatachalam Road to assess damage to roads, storm-water drains and canals. The Central government is expected to fund the restoration of some civic infrastructure on the basis of the team’s report.  We will provide breakfast, lunch and dinner to all the residents. The assistant revenue officers and the zonal officers will finalise the locations Meghanatha Reddy Corporation Deputy Commissioner (Works)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corporation-to-supply-free-food-in-low-income-neighbourhoods/article33262043.ece
06 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Precautionary measures helped reduce damage: Palaniswami||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Saturday released Rs. 10 lakh to the families of seven persons who were killed during heavy rain and flooding, caused by Cyclone Burevi in the State. In a statement in Chennai, he said Rs. 6 lakh was released from the State Disaster Response Fund (SDRF) and another Rs. 4 lakh from the Chief Minister’s Public Relief Fund. On preparedness Reiterating that precautionary measures taken by the government helped contain damage to property and reduce the number of deaths, he said he had directed officials to distribute food packets, drinking water and milk powder. “Depending on the need, I have asked officials to set up mobile eateries,” Mr. Palaniswami said. Mr. Palaniswami said in the case of death of cattle, the government would give Rs. 30,000 each for milch cows, Rs. 25,000 each for bulls, Rs. 16,000 each for calves and Rs. 3,000 each for a goat. “Owners of damaged houses and huts will get adequate compensation. Farmers will get compensation from SDRF. I have also issued directions for providing compensation from the crop insurance scheme,” he said. Relief efforts While Cabinet colleagues have been deputed to various districts to oversee and speed up relief works, PWD officials have been advised to monitor reservoirs to prevent damage. “The police and Revenue officials have been asked to prevent crowds near waterbodies and beaches,” he added.  Owners of damaged houses and huts will get adequate compensation. Farmers will get compensation from SDRF Edappadi K. Palaniswami Chief Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/precautionary-measures-helped-reduce-damage-palaniswami/article33261398.ece
06 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM attracts both brickbats and bouquets||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, in four days, has handled two complex and sensitive caste-related demands, attracting both bouquets and brickbats. In the face of the PMK’s agitation for 20% internal reservation for Vanniyars, which saw sporadic violence, he announced that his government would establish an exclusive commission to gather the latest data on castes. Next, he responded to another sensitive demand from Puthiya Tamilagam, and a few other groups, saying the government would recommend to the Centre the grouping of seven Scheduled Castes, under the generic name of “Devendra Kula Vellalars”. The PMK, however, has expressed dissatisfaction. Its founder, S. Ramadoss, recalled that in the last one year or so, his party had been pursuing the matter with the Chief Minister. C.N. Ramamurthy, leader of the Vanniyar Federation, questioned the purposefulness of getting the matter examined by a separate body, as recommendations of the Sattanathan and Ambasankar Commissions, of the 1970s and 1980s, had remained largely unimplemented. As for the move on “Devendra Kula Vellalars,” B. Manickam Tagore, Virudhunagar Member of Parliament, said the Chief Minister had made the announcement under pressure. A few weeks ago, Union Minister of Social Justice and Empowerment Thawaarchand Gehlot, in response to his reference in the Parliament, in September, on the issue, had said that any modification to the list of SCs, in relation to a State or a Union Territory, could be made only by an Act of the Parliament. M. Bharathan, State organiser of the Ambedkar Kalvi Centenary Movement, felt that the government, while pursuing the issue with the Centre, could have followed the example set by the Jayalalithaa regime in the mid-1990s, by issuing an order that brought all sub-castes of Mukkolathor under the generic name of “Thevar”, without disturbing the arrangement on concessions. However, R.B. Udhayakumar, Revenue Minister, said: “Our government’s approach is to respond to any issue of public importance, expeditiously, within the parameters of law, while taking into account sentiments of the people. Besides, the Chief Minister’s style of functioning is to act and thrash out, swiftly, the issues that are brought before him. In fact, he should be commended.” Welcoming the move, V. Kamaraja, founder-president, Devendra Kulla Mallar Chamber of Commerce, and one of those following up the matter with the State and Central governments, expressed hope that the Centre would give its clearance, immediately, after the State sends its proposal. G. Palanithurai, academician, said the Chief Minister’s approach to several public issues was one of avoiding confrontation and not remaining inflexible.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-attracts-both-brickbats-and-bouquets/article33261400.ece
06 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Vanniyars stand to lose more with internal reservation||With the Pattali Makkal Katchi (PMK) reviving its long-standing demand for a 20% quota for the Vanniyars, there is a view in the State bureaucracy that the community stands to lose more than what it has now if the concept of internal reservation is implemented based on the community’s proportionate strength to the State’s overall population. As the Vanniyars come under the Most Backward Classes (MBCs) and the De-notified Communities, both of which are earmarked 20% reservation, they are entitled to compete within the segment for education and employment. But if an exclusive quota is given to them, they will have to restrict themselves to the lesser segment. This is because the Vanniyars constitute around 13% of the population, an official said, citing the Ambasankar Commission’s report of 1985. Barring the Scheduled Castes, the Scheduled Tribes and the unreserved communities, the Backward Classes (BCs) and the MBCs account for 78% of the population. The BCs and the MBCs are accommodated within the 50% quota. Proportionately, the Vanniyars’ share will come down to 8.33%. “When the community can now compete within the 20% quota for MBCs, why should it lower its eligibility by pitching in for internal reservation?” asked the official. It was for this reason that Christians, 10 years ago, got the government to withdraw its decision to give them a 3.5% exclusive quota within the BC fold, preferring instead to be treated as part of the overall BC’s share of 26.5%. But protagonists of the idea of internal reservation say their demand is “reasonable” as the Vanniyars have not benefited much from the 20% quota for the MBCs in the last 30-odd years. PMK spokesperson K. Balu wants the government to make public the data on the recruitment of the Vanniyars to the State government services all these years. “This will bring to the fore how we are inadequately represented in the government services,” he said, adding that the principle of elasticity in reservation could be applied to the community, as was done for the Arundathiyars. C. N. Ramamurthy, founder-president of the Vanniyar Federation and the petitioner in a case on internal reservation at the Madras High Court, said the State Backward Classes Commission, after being asked by the government to study the issue in March 2012 in the light of his petition, had refused to share with him its findings on the ground that they were “confidential”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vanniyars-stand-to-lose-more-with-internal-reservation/article33261412.ece
06 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||GEM hospital launches pancreas speciality clinic||GEM Hospital has launched a pancreas speciality clinic in the city. Dr. C. Palinivelu, chairman of the hospital group, said it would be a one-stop solution for all pancreatic ailments. “Diseases such as pancreatic stones and pancreatic cancer are on the rise. Various latest diagnostic and treatment facilities such as spyglass pancreatoscope, endoscopic ultrasound 4K and 3D laparoscope, laser and robotic surgery will be offered as part of the clinic,” he said. The facility would provide comprehensive treatment for all pancreatic diseases, said S. Asokan, the hospital’s chief executive officer and director. Director of GEM hospital, Chennai, P. Senthilnathan, said a special awareness and consultation camp for all patients with pancreatic diseases would be held from Dec 7 to 18. “People can avail themselves of free consultation and treatment at a subsidised cost during this period,” he said. The hospital would be illuminated in purple for 10 nights to create awareness about pancreatic cancer. For free consultation contact 044-61666666 or 9500200600. Muthu Palaniappan, governor of the Rotary International District 3232, commissioned the clinic on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gem-hospital-launches-pancreas-speciality-clinic/article33262045.ece
06 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Fishermen find aerial drone in Pulicat||Tense moments prevailed at the Koraikuppam fishing hamlet in Pulicat on Saturday after an an aerial target drone was found floating in the sea. The police suspect that the drone could belong to the defence forces, and have sought information from the Coast Guard. Floating in sea “Some fishermen found it floating in the sea and brought it ashore. It was yellow and red, and is built of fibre and wood,” said Krishnan, a fisherman from the village. Durai Mahendran, State president, Tamil Nadu Fishermen Association, said villagers gathered around the object, curious to know what it was. “We informed the police about it. We think it is a drone,” he said. The vehicle has the word ‘target’ written on its wings and on its body, the word ‘Banshee’ and the number 7145 have been painted. It has an electrical component on its head. Some portions, including a propeller, were missing, the fishermen said. “It appears that the target drone is used for air defence systems training. As of now, there is nothing suspicious about this,” a senior police officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fishermen-find-aerial-drone-off-pulicat/article33262037.ece
06 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||The Hindu Margazhi contest is open for Hindustani musicians too||The Hindu Margazhi Classical Music Competition is open for Hindustani and Carnatic classical musicians. In the Hindustani style, bhajans or even pieces by gurus of various gharanas can be sent in. Those below the age of 40 who have been learning music can enter the competition. Deadline Interested youth can send in their entries under five minutes length tothmargazhi@thehindu.co. inas Google Drive or Dropbox links. Do not send them as attachments as sometimes they may not open. The last date for sending in entries for all categories, vocal, instrumental and percussion is December 12, 2020 for three age groups of under-12, 13-19 and 20-40. For details, visithttps://www.google.com/amp/s/www.thehindu.com /news/ national/tamil-nadu/the-hindu-announces-margazhi- competition-for-young-indian- classical-musicians/ article33231111.ece/amp||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/the-hindu-margazhi-contest-also-open-for-hindustani-musicians/article33261413.ece
06 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Anna University V-C is being targeted, says Kamal||Makkal Needhi Maiam founder Kamal Haasan on Saturday threw his weight behind Anna University (AU) Vice-Chancellor M.K. Surappa, against whom the State government, recently, ordered a probe by a one-man commission. The actor-politician said that Prof. Surappa was targeted because he refused to crawl, bend and buckle under pressure from the corrupt. In a recorded video message, he said that while everyone had questioned the appointment of Mr. Surappa, on the ground that there were suitable educationists in Tamil Nadu, the V-C had sought to raise the standard of engineering education, on a par with global standards. “The corrupt will break if someone is not bending. An inquiry commission has been constituted, based on an anonymous letter from a coward. Have they inquired about those who stayed in the university, against the rules, and used university vehicles?” he asked. ‘Won’t remain silent’ Mr. Haasan asked why charges levelled by former Anna University V-C E. Balagurusamy and others, against the Higher Education Minister, were not inquired into. [The Minister has filed a private defamation suit against Mr. Balagurusamy.] “Are they trying to buy students by offering marks after paying money for votes? We may have a difference of opinion about Mr. Surappa’s political affiliations. But if someone is hunted for being honest, I will not remain a mute spectator. MNM, an honest organisation, also will not remain silent,” he said. Mr. Haasan felt the commission was a tool to tarnish the reputation of those who did not fall in line. He said what happened to ISRO scientist Nambi Narayanan (who was framed in a spying case), should not be allowed to happen to Mr. Surappa.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/anna-university-v-c-is-being-targeted-says-kamal/article33261397.ece
06 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Kanniyakumari students thank CM||Five students from Kanniyakumari thanked Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, saying that NEET coaching, provided by the AIADMK government, coupled with the 7.5% horizontal reservation, paved way for them getting medical seats this year. The students conveyed their gratitude through officials of the Department of Information and Public Relations, Kanniyakumari, according to a release. J. Nandana, who studied at the Munjiri Government Higher Secondary School, said the dream of her late father Ravindran became a reality because of the NEET coaching and 7.5% reservation. “After my father was killed in an accident, my mother Jayakumari eked out a livelihood as a tailor. COVID-19 denied us even that,” she said. She scored 209 marks in the test. Her schoolmate, S.S. Rahul Varshan, said while his elder brother could not enter a medical college, his admission was facilitated by the government’s policies. S. Ashika of the Government Higher Secondary School in Thuckalay said, “After my father’s death, my mother asked me to quit school. I somehow continued my education, and, today, I have got a seat at a medical college.” M.K. Abdul Rahman, her schoolmate, said though he initially scored 377 marks in NEET through coaching provided by the government, he could not get a seat. “But the 7.5% quota ensured my admission to the Stanley Medical College. The credit should go to the Chief Minister and officials of the Education Department,” he said. K. Reshma, who studied at the Thikkurichi Government Higher Secondary School, is another beneficiary of the scheme and has joined a BDS course.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kanniyakumari-students-thank-cm/article33261405.ece
06 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Siddha institute signs MoU with National Institute of Epidemiology||The National Institute of Siddha (NIS) entered into a Memorandum of Understanding with the National Institute of Epidemiology (NIE), an institute of the Indian Council of Medical Research. According to a press release, R. Meenakumari, Director of NIS, and Manoj V. Murhekar, Director and scientist-G, NIE, signed the MoU on December 4. The directors and their team of experts, scientists and doctors discussed various collaborative works in medical education and research. The two institutes have agreed to collaborate in the following areas: conduct joint research and development projects in the areas of clinical and health system research; epidemiological studies, basic medical and allied sciences research to be funded by specific funding sources; to organise seminars, workshops, webinars; and continuing education programmes develop academic programmes in areas of mutual interest. The MoU would also promote exchange of students, Ph.D./postdoctoral scholars, faculty for teaching and training programmes, use of laboratories and library facilities for institutional members and scholars.  A post COVID-19 Siddha care unit was inaugurated at the NIS recently. Globally, though 65% of persons recover from COVID-19, they still suffered from various symptoms such as fatigue, dyspnea, joint and muscle pain, cough, running nose and headache post recovery, a press release said. To address the health issues of patients suffering from post COVID-19 manifestations, NIS director R. Meenakumari inaugurated the unit. In continuation of its COVID-19 care services, the NIS would provide treatment for symptoms such as cough, fatigue, joint pain, loss of smell and headache. The outpatient department would function from 8 a.m. to noon every day, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/siddha-institute-signs-mou-with-national-institute-of-epidemiology/article33262035.ece
06 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||107 wait-listed for medical seats at the end of Day 7||At the end of day seven of general counselling for medical and dental seats on Saturday, 107 candidates were wait listed while 393 seats were allotted. Of the 529 candidates called for counselling, 501were allotted seats. While 174 candidates were allotted MBBS seats in government medical colleges, 196 were allotted seats in self-financing colleges. Three seats were allotted in self-financing dental colleges and 20 in government dental colleges. At the end of the day, there were 537 vacancies in government medical colleges and 532 in self-financing ones. All Open Category seats were exhausted in medical colleges. As many as 107 seats are vacant in government dental colleges. There are two seats in Open Category and 40 seats in BC category in Rajah Muthaiah Dental College. Of the 982 vacancies in self-financing dental colleges, 302 seats are available under OC and 261 under BC category.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/107-wait-listed-for-medical-seats-at-the-end-of-day-7/article33262040.ece
06 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Over 1.5 kg gold seized||One person was arrested and over 1.5 kg gold worth Rs. 81.4 lakh and €7,500 (Rs. 6.6 lakh) were seized at the Chennai airport by Chennai Air Customs on Saturday. In another case, three passengers were held for concealing 1.3 kg of gold in the form of a paste in their rectum, according to a press release. Two other passengers were also held as they had hidden 285 g of gold in their jeans.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-15-kg-gold-seized/article33262050.ece
06 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Jayalalithaa’s death anniversary observed||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami and Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam on Saturday led their party members in the observance of the fourth death anniversary of former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa. The two leaders, accompanied by senior leaders and Ministers paid floral homage at the mausoleum of the former Chief Minister. Later, Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam general secretary T.T.V. Dhinakaran also paid homage to the leader.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/jayalalithaas-death-anniversary-observed/article33261396.ece
06 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||No tax exemption for Chennai Port Trust: HC||The Madras High Court has held that Chennai Port Trust (CPT) is not entitled to exemption from payment of urban land tax to the State government under the provisions of the Tamil Nadu Urban Land Tax Act of 1996. Chief Justice Amreshwar Pratap Sahi and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy ruled that CPT had failed to establish that it was entitled to exemption under Section 29(a) of the Act to land owned by the government. The judgment was delivered while allowing a writ appeal preferred by the Commissioner for Urban Land Ceiling and Urban Land Tax. The first Division Bench overturned a ruling of a single judge of the High Court last year in favour of the CPT. The issue in question was lands that were originally owned by the Madras Dock Labour Board (MDLB), constituted under Section 5-A of the Dock Workers (Regulation of Employment) Act of 1948. In 1998, MDLB was merged with CPT.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-tax-exemption-for-chennai-port-trust-hc/article33261434.ece
06 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||107 waitlisted for medical seats||At the end of seventh day of general counselling for medical and dental seats on Saturday, 107 candidates were waitlisted after 393 seats were allotted. Of the 529 candidates called for counselling, 501 were allotted seats. While 174 candidates were allotted MBBS seats in government medical colleges, 196 were allotted seats in self-financing colleges. Three seats were allotted in self-financing dental colleges and 20 in government dental colleges. At the end of the day, there were 537 vacancies in government medical colleges and 532 in self-financing medical colleges. All open category seats have been exhausted in medical colleges. As many as 107 seats are vacant in government dental colleges. There are two seats in open category and 40 seats in BC category at Rajah Muthaiah Dental College. In these two categories, there are no seats in the government dental college. Of the 982 vacancies in self-financing dental colleges, 302 seats are available under OC and 261 under BC category.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/107-waitlisted-for-medical-seats-on-seventh-day/article33261435.ece
06 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Dhinakaran appoints office-bearer||The Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK) on Saturday appointed L. Chandrasekaran of Namakkal as secretary of the party’s unit for the differently abled, according to a press release issued by T.T.V. Dhinakaran, general secretary of the party.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/appointed/article33261438.ece
06 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Conference on telehealth to be held from Dec. 18||The 16th International Conference of the Telemedicine Society of India will be held virtually from December 18 to 20. The theme of the conference will be ‘Telehealth - From the Fringes to the Mainstream.’ According to a press release, telehealth has grown exponentially in India after the notification of the Telemedicine Practice Guidelines. The pandemic has allowed the virtual health tech ecosystem get established in a very short period. The discussions will focus on the growth and impact of telehealth. For details visit www.telemedicon2020.com and www.tsi.org.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/conference-on-telehealth-to-be-held-from-dec-18/article33262046.ece
06 December 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Two workers found dead in Pulianthope||Two men were found dead in a private firm in Pulianthope on Saturday. The police said Arumugam, 48, of Vyasarpadi, and Mohan, 68, were employees of a firm in Kannikapuram. On Saturday, neighbours found them dead. The bodies were sent for post-mortem examination. It is suspected they got electrocuted while trying to clear stagnant water on the premises.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-workers-found-dead-in-pulianthope/article33262034.ece
06 December 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Four held for possession of drugs||The police have nabbed four youngsters, including a juvenile, on the charge of possessing ganja and tablets near Kavarapettai on Saturday. Sources said inspector Sakthivel and his team were checking vehicles on Thachur Road on Saturday when they intercepted four suspicious youngsters. When the police searched their bags, they found over 1,000 g of ganja and 60 tablets. The youngsters Manikandan, Prabakaran and Ramesh were remanded in judicial custody. The juvenile was sent to an observation home.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/four-held-for-possession-of-drugs/article33262044.ece
06 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Opportunity to opt for rice in family cards||Food Minister R. Kamaraj on Saturday said ration cardholders in the State who had opted for sugar in their family cards could now opt for rice. In an official release in Chennai, he said there were as many as 5,80,298 ration cardholders in Tamil Nadu. Many family cardholders had requested the State government, seeking to convert their sugar-option family cards into rice-option ones. The government has now decided to facilitate this. “Those who opted for sugar-option family cards can download the application form fromwww.tnpds.gov.inand submit the same, with a copy of their cards, to local officials between December 5 and 20. Their applications will be immediately considered and converted into rice-option family cards if the family is eligible (as per criteria),” Mr. Kamaraj said in the release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/opportunity-to-opt-for-rice-in-family-cards/article33261402.ece
06 December 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Fill vacancies in Ministry of Education: MDMK||MDMK youth wing secretary V. Eswaran has urged the Central government to fill vacancies in the Ministry of Education as there are over 300 vacancies as per an Right To Information (RTI) Act reply. In a statement, he said that he received a reply from the Ministry to his application under the RTI Act on November 27. As per the reply, the total number of staff working in the Ministry of Education is 754 and that there are 326 vacancies. Mr. Eswaran alleged that such a large number of vacancies in the Ministry of Education would hamper its functioning, especially with policies such as the National Education Policy (NEP) 2020 being rolled out. “If there are so many vacancies in the office of the Ministry of Education, how many vacancies must be present in the educational institutions run by the Central government?” he asked, urging the Central government to fill in all the vacancies at the earliest.  Caste-wise breakup The RTI Act reply also contained a caste-wise breakup of the staff working in the Ministry of Education, according to which there are 195 staff members from the Scheduled Castes (SC), 50 from the Scheduled Tribes (ST) and 111 from the Other Backward Classes (OBC) working in the Ministry. In August, the Ministry of Human Resource Development was officially renamed the Ministry of Education following assent from President Ram Nath Kovind. This name change was one of the recommendations made in the NEP 2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fill-vacancies-in-ministry-of-education-mdmk/article33262073.ece
06 December 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||World Soil Day observed||The ENVIS Centre on Forest Genetic Resources and Tree Improvement at the Institute of Forest Genetics and Tree Breeding (IFGTB), observed World Soil Day 2020 digitally on Saturday. An online awareness quiz on soil was organised for students and the general public as part of the event. e-certifictes People from all walks of life participated in the quiz and e-certificates were given to them, said a release. Soil biodiversity An awareness poster highlighting the importance of soil biodiversity was released at the event and its digital copies were shared with students and various stakeholders. S. Senthilkumar, Group Coordinator Research, IFGTB; Kannan C.S. Warrier, Senior Principal Scientist and ENVIS Coordinator; and S. Vigneswaran, Programme Officer, ENVIS, spoke at the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/world-soil-day-observed/article33262072.ece
06 December 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Annual elephant camp likely to be postponed due to pandemic||The annual rejuvenation camp for temple and mutt elephants held at Thekkampatti, near Mettupalayam, in Coimbatore district is likely to be postponed this year because of the COVID-19 pandemic. Official sources at Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR&CE) Department here told The Hindu on Saturday that the State government is yet to announce a date for the camp. The HR&CE Department officials from Coimbatore recently sent the details regarding the camp to Commissioner of HR&CE Department S. Prabhakar, but a reply is awaited, the sources said. With preparatory works yet to commence at Thekkampatti, the elephant rejuvenation camp is expected to begin either in the last week of December or the first week of January 2021. The previous elephant camp began on December 15, 2019 and ended on January 31, this year. Sources said that the State government is examining the feasibility of conducting the elephant camp amid the pandemic, given the logistical challenges of transporting nearly 30 elephants from prominent temples and mutts across the State. To undergo tests The mahouts, veterinarians, officials and staff from the HR&CE Department as well as the Forest Department who participate in the camp may be required to undergo COVID-19 tests. With the annual camp also attracting many visitors from across the State and the country every year, safety protocols such as personal distancing norms will most likely be put in place when held. The State government may consider these factors and will make an announcement, according to the sources. When contacted, Coimbatore Collector K. Rajamani said that the district administration has not received any direction from the State government regarding the camp as of Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/annual-elephant-camp-likely-to-be-postponed-due-to-pandemic/article33261468.ece
06 December 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||1.2 kg of meth seized at Coimbatore airport||The Central Industrial Security (CISF) force seized 1.2 kg of methamphetamine from a passenger who came to Coimbatore International Airport to board a flight to Sharjah on Saturday morning. The crystal substance was found concealed in a briefcase carried by the passenger identified as K. Nagarathinam (44), a native of Thuvakudi in Tiruchi. Sources with the CISF said that Mr. Nagarathinam carried an empty briefcase as instructed by a friend. He informed the CISF personnel that he suspected something was concealed in the briefcase. The CISF team scanned the briefcase and found the presence of a concealed item. The CISF removed a panel of the briefcase and found that a crystal substance was concealed in two polythene bags. When checked, using a desktop narcotics detector, the substance was identified as methamphetamine. The CISF handed over the substance to the Peelamedu police station for further investigations. G. Stalin, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order), Coimbatore City Police, said the Peelamedu police handed over the substance to the Narcotics Intelligence Bureau CID (NIB-CID), Coimbatore. “NIB-CID will investigate the case as it is specialised in handling cases related to narcotics,” he said. Though the narcotics detector at the airport showed the seized substance as methamphetamine, NIB-CID will send samples of the substance to a Government laboratory for further examination. NIB-CID sleuths were also in the efforts to trace the man who handed over the briefcase containing the substance to Nagarathinam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/12-kg-of-meth-seized-at-coimbatore-airport/article33262064.ece
06 December 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Man arrested for blackmailing woman||The Kuniyamuthur police arrested a 31-year-old man on charges of threatening a woman of leaking videos of private moments with her for sexual favours. The arrested has been identified as B. Faizal, a resident of Mayilkal near Kuniyamuthur. The police said that the accused was in an affair with a 39-year-old married woman, also from Kuniyamuthur. According to the police, the accused approached the woman on Wednesday and allegedly demanded sexual favours from her. When the woman refused, he threatened her of releasing videos of private moments with her, said the police. Policeman killed in accident A policeman attached to the Armed Reserve (II) of Greater Chennai Police was killed in an accident at Singanallur in Coimbatore on Saturday. The police said that A. Arul Anandu (30), a native of Chinnalapatti in Dindigul district, was thrown off the two-wheeler when it hit the median on Tiruchi road near Singanallur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-arrested-for-blackmailing-woman/article33262071.ece
06 December 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Corporation holds meeting with sullage collection lorry owners||Coimbatore Corporation on Saturday engaged owners of sullage collection lorry owners to ask them to completely eliminate use of humans. A release from the civic body said Commissioner P. Kumaravel Pandian said the owners should completely mechanise the waste collection operation, not ask workers to get down the manholes, give protective gears to workers and deploy only those vehicles that were registered with the Corporation. If the owners were found using lorries that were not registered with the civic body, it would seize those and initiate penal action, the release said and added that the Commissioner warned the owners against discharging chemical waste in the Ukkadam sewage farm or sewage near water bodies. Sources said the Corporation held the meeting in response to the Central Government’s ‘manhole-to-machine hole’ initiative.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corporation-holds-meeting-with-sullage-collection-lorry-owners/article33262062.ece
06 December 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||5 held for stealing copper wires from transformers||A special team of Coimbatore District (Rural) Police have arrested five persons who were involved in the theft of copper wires after disabling transformers located in remote locations in rural areas of the district. The police recovered 950 kg of copper and 60 kg of aluminium wires worth around Rs. 7.10 lakh that the five persons stole in the last four months. According to the police, K. Shanmugam (55) from Othakalmandapam, S. Chinnathambi (47) and P. Rangaraj (31) alias Karthik from Kottaipalayam, K. Sekar (47) from Karamadai and M. Manikandan (19) from Thudiyalur were arrested and remanded in judicial custody on Friday. When a few cases of stealing copper wires from transformers were reported, Coimbatore Rural Superintendent of Police Ara. Arularasu constituted a team comprising Karumathampatty DSP Suriyamoorthy, inspectors Shanmugam (Annur), Thangam (Kovilpalayam) and Sundarapandian (Sulur) to nab the accused. The special team of the police tracked down the five persons on Friday during the investigation of a copper theft case registered by the Annur police. The police recovered 950 kg of copper wires which they had stolen from different transformers. Target remote areas According to the police, the accused targeted transformers located in remote places within the limits of Kovilpalayam, Annur, Periyanaickenpalayam and Sulur police stations. They also stole 60 kg of aluminium wires. The police added that Manikandan was into scrap business and he led the group.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/5-held-for-stealing-copper-wires-from-transformers/article33262070.ece
06 December 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||SBI donates 150 PPE kits||State Bank of India, Coimbatore Zone, has donated, as part of its CSR activity, 150 PPE kits to the Coimbatore Government Medical College Hospital and the ESI Hospital. S.Ravikumar, Deputy General Manager Coimbatore Zone handed over the kits to CMC Dean P.Kalidass and ESI Dean A.Nirmala.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sbi-donates-150-ppe-kits/article33262066.ece
06 December 2020||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||Torrential rain continues to wreak havoc in Cuddalore||Torrential rains continued to wreak havoc in several parts of Cuddalore district on Saturday inundating low-lying areas. Several families were evacuated from areas that faced flood-like situations. As per official estimates, about 39,000 hectares of cropping land, including agriculture and horticulture crops, have been submerged in rainwater across the district. The extent of crop damages would be known only after water starts receding from the fields, an official said. Principal Secretary to Government Gagandeep Singh Bedi said that two types of compensation will be available to farmers whose crops had been damaged in the rains. Farmers who have not availed of insurance for their crops will also be entitled to compensation from the Revenue Department though the State Disaster Relief Fund (SDRF) if the loss of crop is more than 33 %, he said. District Collector Chandra Sekhar Sakhamuri said that the administration was in touch with NLC India Ltd (NLCIL) to ensure that rainwater inundated in the mines was baled out slowly to prevent flooding in the surrounding villages. Cuddalore district received an average of 79.06 mm during the 24-hour period, ending 8.30 a.m. on Saturday. Kothavacherry recorded 185 mm, Bhuvanagiri 154, Sethiyathope 140.4, Srimushnam 116.1, Annamalai Nagar 98.5 and Chidambaram 85.  Meanwhile, water was released from Veedur in Tindivanam block in Villupuram district on Saturday after the dam reached the Full Reservoir Level (FRL). The water level touched 31.6 feet as against 32 feet of capacity. Public Works Department sources said that with the dam filling up, the outflow was being maintained at 405 cusecs. The dam has a storage capacity of 605 million cubic feet. The dam irrigates about 2,200 acres in Villupuram district and 1,000 acres in neighbouring Puducherry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rain-continues-to-wreak-havoc-in-cuddalore/article33262052.ece
06 December 2020||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||Stalin distributes relief to rain-affected persons||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Saturday visited rain-affected areas in Kurunjipadi Assembly constituency and distributed relief to those affected by waterlogging. Mr. Stalin accompanied by former Minister M.R.K. Panneerselvam inspected paddy fields submerged in rain water at Pathrampattu near Mettupalayam. He also inspected the Perumal Eri in Kurunjipadi and affected areas on the banks of the Lower Paravanar river in Therkupoovanikuppam. The DMK president also visited affected areas in Chidambaram and distributed food and bedsheets to the affected persons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stalin-distributes-relief-to-rain-affected-persons/article33262053.ece
06 December 2020||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||Three IAS officers deputed||The State government has deputed three senior IAS officers to Cuddalore district to assist the district administration and coordinate relief operations in the rain-affected areas. Principal Secretary to Tamil Nadu Government Gagandeep Singh Bedi, who is supervising the relief operations in Cuddalore, said that the government had deputed IAS officers V. Amuthavalli, T.P. Rajesh and Vishu Mahajan to the district. The officials will camp in flood-affected areas in Cuddalore, Chidambaram, Panruti and Vriddhachalam and monitor the relief operations. Mr. Bedi said that teams from the Municipal Administration and Rural Development departments have been entrusted with identifying low-lying areas to gauge the extent of evacuation and relief required in the event of breaches. People in low-lying areas are being moved to relief centres and the shelters have been equipped with amenities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-ias-officers-deputed-for-relief-work/article33261469.ece
06 December 2020||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||15 test positive in Cuddalore||As many as 15 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Cuddalore district on Saturday. With this, the total number of cases touched 24,319. The Health Department said that 50 persons were undergoing treatment while 20 persons recovered and were discharged from various treatment centres. Villupuram district recorded three fresh cases, taking the total to 14,678.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/15-test-positive-in-cuddalore/article33262195.ece
06 December 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Cauvery Calling organises sapling plantation drive today||A plantation drive with public participation under ‘Nurturing the Desire to Plant a Tree’ initiative will be held here on December 6. Organised by Cauvery Calling, the plantation activity will be undertaken on farmland belonging to K.S. Rajeshwaran at Sivalingapuram village of Kulur Panchayat in Modakurichi Taluk. The event is open for all by registration and will offer first-hand experience of planting saplings on a farmland. A release said that Cauvery Calling launched a State-wide drive for the public to participate in sapling plantation on private farmlands across the Cauvery river basin in Tamil Nadu last month. The platform offered eco-enthusiasts who did not own land and did not know where and how to plant saplings, the opportunity to visit farms along with the Isha Agroforestry team and plant saplings. The first plantation drive was held at Thotiyapatti village in Karur district on November 18, and received an overwhelming response from tree lovers. The public could register for participation by calling 86681 72967, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cauvery-calling-organises-sapling-plantation-drive-today/article33261450.ece
06 December 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Plea to resume ERO-100 bus services||The District Congress Minority Wing has urged the Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC), Coimbatore Zone, to resume the ERO-100 bus services from Erode to Coimbatore and vice versa as the services are helpful for workers and other passengers commuting between the two cities frequently. In a letter to the Managing Director, TNSTC, Coimbatore Zone, wing’s vice-president K.N. Basha said the bus services, operated without conductor and without stoppages, were most preferred by commuters for travelling between the two cities. Workers, students, patients and office goers preferred the services as the buses reached Coimbatore in 100 minutes. Good patronage Most of the trips were operated with good patronage and the services were stopped due to COVID-19 pandemic in March. Currently, normalcy was restored and all government and private buses were operated as usual. But, ERO-100 bus services were yet to resume. Since passenger trains were not operated, workers found it difficult in reaching their work place in the two cities. Also, commuters were forced to depend on private buses. Hence, the services should resume without delay, the letter said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plea-to-resume-ero-100-bus-services/article33261445.ece
06 December 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||3 fined for attempting to hunt wild animals||Three persons, who attempted to hunt wildlife in the forest areas of Anthiyur Range, were fined Rs. 51,000 here on Friday. A team led by K. Uthirasamy, Anthiyur Forest Ranger, along with Murali Pirivu Forester Sri Devi and forest guards patrolled Kombu Thokkiyamman Kovil areas and found three persons attempting to fix tools to hunt wildlife. The team caught R. Selvanayagam (50) of Mayilkalpalayam, N. Moorthy (40) and A. Madhayan (50), both from Pallipalayam. Inquiries revealed that last week they had cooked and consumed venison. A case was registered and the District Forest Officer, Erode, levied a fine of Rs. 17,000 on each. The fine was collected from them and they were let off after warning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-fined-for-attempting-to-hunt-wildlife/article33261449.ece
06 December 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Recovered mobile phones worth Rs. 6.33 lakh handed over to owners||A total of 53 mobile phones worth Rs. 6,33,136 that were recovered by the district police were handed over to the rightful owners here on Saturday. Superintendent of Police P. Thangadurai handed over the phones to the owners in the presence of Erode Town DSP K. Raju, Inspectors and other police personnel at the district police office. He said cases of mobile phone missing and theft were registered in various police stations and stiff action by the police led to their recovery. Mr. Thangadurai said online cheating was on the rise and asked the public not to disclose their bank details, 16-digit debit card number, CVV or OTP to strangers who claimed that they were speaking from banks. He asked the public to be cautious against such callers as it would result in financial fraud. He said the police received many complaints in 2020 and cases were registered. After investigation, a sum of Rs. 5,15,738 were returned to the affected persons through the respective banks. The SP asked the public to conduct proper inquiry over advertisements claiming that rent would be given for utilising their land for installing mobile towers. He also asked the public to be cautious against persons who promised to get jobs in foreign countries. Contents in social media should be shared only with known persons, the SP added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/recovered-mobile-phones-worth-rs-633-lakh-handed-over-to-owners/article33261447.ece
06 December 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Power shutdown||Due to various works, power supply will be disrupted in the following areas from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.:  Collectorate line, December 6: Perundurai Road, Gandhi Nagar, Muthukaruppan Street, Palaniyappa Street, Ramasamy Street, Teachers Colony, EB Colony, Mohan Kumaramangalam Street, Uzhavar Sandhai, Radhakrishnan Street, New Teachers Colony, Ranalakshmanan Nagar, Kumalankuttai, Selvam Nagar, Geetha Nagar, Sangu Nagar, Pari Nagar, Palayapalayam and Pannai Nagar.  Ganapathipalayam sub-station, December 7: Injampalli, Muthugoundanpalayam, Solangapalayam, Pasur, Rakiyapalayam, Madathupalayam, Ganapathipalayam, Pachampalayam, Palani Goundan Palayam, Panjalingapuram, Kangeyampalayam, Sanarpalayam and Kumaranpalayam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-shutdown/article33261448.ece
06 December 2020||Kancheepuram,TAMIL NADU||2 electrocuted while trying to repair cable||A Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation (Tangedco) wireman and a contract worker assisting him were electrocuted when they reportedly went to attend to a fault in Injambakkam, in Kancheepuram district, on Saturday. According to the police, Tangedco officials received information about a snapped overhead cable in Injambakkam village on Arakonnam Road. Based on the information, Bagyanathan, 48, a wireman, and Dayalan, 38, a contract worker, went to attend to the issue. They were electrocuted when they tried repair the cable, the police said. Since Dayalan did not return home for a long time, his brother Gopi went to check on him and found the two lying dead. He informed the Baluchetty Chathiram police about the incident. The bodies were sent to the hospital for post-mortem examination. D. Sridhar, State secretary, Centre for Indian Trade Unions (CITU), said they suspected foul play. “We suspect the section officer did not cut power supply to the line before the men attempted to fix it,” he said. CITU members will be holding talks with Tangedco officials to identify the real reason behind the incident and also to obtain compensation for the families of the two. “The power transmission infrastructure is very old; it is high time they change everything,” he said.  We suspect that the section officer did not cut power supply to the line before the men attempted to fix it D. Sridhar State secretary, CITU||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/2-electrocuted-while-trying-to-repair-cable/article33262038.ece
06 December 2020||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Highway robbery accused produced before court||Six more accused in the mobile phone consignment robbery were produced before the judicial magistrate’s court in Hosur and remanded in judicial custody on Saturday, a week after they were arrested in Dewas district in Madhya Pradesh. Four trucks involved in the crime were seized. But the consignment was already transferred to Bangladesh reportedly for sale of the phones in the black market there, said a police source involved in the investigation. The police also dismissed reports in a section of the local media speculating that the case was taken over by the National Investigation Agency as baseless. It is a case of dacoity and robbery and is being dealt as that, according to a police source. A Mumbai-bound consignment of mobile phones was lifted off the Krishnagiri-Bengaluru highway in Shoolagiri in late October by dacoits, who were traced to Dewas district of Madhya Pradesh. The consignment worth Rs. 15 crore from Kancheepuram was en route Xiaomi Technology India Private Limited. The consignment of 15 boxes of 928 mobile each, totalling 13,920 mobiles were stolen. The truck carrying the consignment was intercepted by another truck, the driver and the standby driver were attacked and the truck was stolen, police sources said. So far, totally 10 people were arrested and two of them were released on bail. The remaining eight are remanded in judicial custody in Krishnagiri. Among the six accused, Rajendra Chauhan, Bhavani Singh Hada, Kamal Singh Hada, and Hemraj Jhala were arrested in Sonakatch village in Dewas district of Madhya Pradesh on November 29. Barath Aswani and Amir Khan were picked up the following day on November 30, in Dewas. All the accused were produced before the respective courts on November 30. On Saturday, they were produced before the judicial magistrate’s court in Hosur for remand. One of the main accused Barath Tejwani was arrested from Delhi airport on November 18, while attempting to fly out of India. He was remanded to judicial custody and is currently lodged in Krishnagiri sub jail. Three other accused, Amitabh Dutta, Shah Jahan Mian, Mohammad Jahid, were arrested in Sonamura in Sepoyjhala district of Tripura. While Dutta was remanded to judicial custody, Mohammad Jahid and Shah Jahan Mian were granted bail by the local court. The police are yet to challenge their bail.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/highway-robbery-accused-produced-before-court/article33261459.ece
06 December 2020||KRISHNAGIRI/ Erode,TAMIL NADU||DMK cadre stage black flag demonstrations||Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) cadre displayed a show of strength through the black flag protests organised against the farm laws and to express solidarity with the protesting farmers against the laws in New Delhi, on Saturday. The protests, as part of the State-wide protests called by DMK president M.K.Stalin, slammed the Bharatiya Janata Party-led Centre for not paying heed to the opposition right at the time of passing the bills without discussion and scrutiny. The protesters, terming the government led by the BJP as “anti-people” and “anti-farmers”, also condemned the All-India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam government for aligning with the BJP. In Krishnagiri, hundreds of DMK cadre bearing black flags staged the protest. Similar protests were held in Dharmapuri. In Erode, the DMK cadre along with farmers staged the demonstration at Anakalpalayam Junction. Led by S. Muthusamy, secretary, Erode South District DMK, leaders of various farmers’ associations, who spoke, blamed the BJP-led government for bringing the three laws. They said the laws were enacted only to make corporate houses earn more profit and take away the basic rights of the farming community. They said the State government had also betrayed the farmers by supporting the bill in Parliament. “Massive protest is happening in Delhi for the past one week demanding repealing the laws and we support their demand,” they added. The farmers also said that the Centre was implementing various projects, including petroleum pipeline projects, only through farm lands and not willing to lay the pipelines along the road. “Both the governments are acting against the farmers”, they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-cadre-stage-black-flag-demonstrations/article33261454.ece
06 December 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Normal life hit as rain lashes many southern districts||After the Cyclone Burevi weakened, widespread rain in many southern districts since Friday evening had disrupted normal life. The worst hit among the districts was Ramanathapuram, where the farmers in Nainarkoil complained that water logging in the standing paddy crops at Vaniavallam and Muthupattinam had completely damaged the prospects of harvest during this season. During an inspection, Collector Dinesh Ponraj Oliver and Monitoring Officer Dharmendra Pratap Yadav saw for themselves waterlogging in paddy fields. The farmers pleaded with them to drain the water after which the PWD engineers were instructed to examine the modalities and help the farmers. Agriculture department officials said that they have been visiting villages, where waterlogging complaints were received. "We are yet to begin the survey," an official said. A watch tower belonging to the Forest Department in Kurusadai island in Mandapam was damaged after the heavy rains which hit the infrastructure. The cyclone damaged objects to the tune of around Rs. 20 lakh at Kurusadai Island which is part of the Gulf of Mannar Marine National Park. Forest Range Officer of Mandapam G. Venkatesh, along with foresters, forest guards and anti poaching watchers, visited the island on Saturday to assess the damage. He said that a passenger boat was damaged. A model of dolphin erected at the island was damaged and around 10 trees were uprooted. “All these damages would cost around Rs. 20 lakh,” he said. Currently, the forest department officials are engaged in removing the uprooted trees, he added. As a safety measure, the TANGEDCO officials had switched off the electricity in many areas in Ramanathapuram, Rameswaram, Mandapam and among others. Cadre of the Communist parties staged a protest demanding the officials to clear the fallen trees and switch on the electricity. For a brief moment, traffic on the NH near Rameswaram was suspended, but after the officials assured, the agitators dispersed. In Madurai city, motorists found it tough to move around the Meenakshi Sundareswarar Temple and other locations in the central parts on Saturday. Before Deepavali, the Madurai Corporation, in a bid to facilitate festival shoppers and the heeding to merchants' plea, suspended the works abruptly. As a result, carriage space had shrunk and traffic moved at snail's pace. In Dindigul district, three dams — Kuthiraiyaaru dam (80 ft max), Varadamanadhi dam (67 ft) and Palar-Poranthalaru dam (65 ft) — were overflowing on Saturday following steady inflow. As a sequel, the PWD authorities had let off the discharge in full that many tanks in the region were fast filling up after five years. The farmers were in an upbeat mood. Traffic in Palani-Kodaikanal ghat section was suspended again for the second day after a tree had fallen. As vehicles had piled up on both sides, the rescue operation took over three hours. Virudhunagar district recorded a meagre 11.61 mm of rainfall on Friday. Cyclone Burevi brought intermittent showers in few places. While Rajapalayam recorded the highest amount of rainfall of 32 mm in the last 24 hours ending at 6 a.m. on Saturday, Aruppukottai registered 28 mm of precipitation. Rainfall recorded in other rain gauge stations (in mm): Virudhunagar 20, Kariyapatti 14.4, Sivakasi 12, Tiruchuli 11.50, Vembakottai 8, Kovilankulam 5.8, Sattur 3, Srivilliputtur 2.5 and Pilavakkal 2. However, out of the eight minor dams, only Kovilar dam was getting a significant inflow of 82.02 cusecs, followed by Sasthakoil 40, Kullursanthai 35.127 and Periyar Pilavakkal 22.3. Except for Kullursanthai dam, none of the dams had even 50% storage. Thoothukudi experienced good rainfall that the deficit had narrowed down considerably. But, the residents in the city limits had a harrowing experience as the poor upkeep by the civic authorities got exposed. The rest of the districts — Tirunelveli, Kanniyakumari and Tenkasi — had widespread rains, but they were not welcome by the farmers. Many tanks were yet to fill up in Tirunelveli, while the dams in Tenkasi had 80 % rains, they claimed. (With bureau inputs)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/normal-life-affected-as-rain-lashes-southern-districts/article33261424.ece
06 December 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Norms violated to pass farm laws: DMK||Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) staged a demonstration here on Saturday, expressing solidarity with farmers protesting in Delhi. Former Minister and senior leader Pon. Muthuramalingam and Madurai Urban (South) secretary G. Thalapathi led the protest. The speakers condemned the State government for not opposing the recent agricultural laws passed in the parliament. Mr. Muthuramalingam said l those laws were against the interests of farmers. “These laws facilitate corporates to procure agricultural produce from the farmers. Ultimately, the corporates will monopolise the farm industry. This is the ultimate aim of the Union government,” he said. “The Union government passed these legislations by violating several parliamentary norms,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/norms-violated-to-pass-farm-laws-dmk/article33262130.ece
06 December 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||HC for dedicated wing to act on offences highlighted by media||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Friday sought a response from the State government on setting up a dedicated wing to look into and take necessary action based on offences that were highlighted by the media, including social media. A Division Bench of Justices N. Kirubakaran and B. Pugalendhi initiated suo motu proceedings based on media reports of a Tenkasi policeman misbehaving with a woman in an inebriated state in the Sankarankoil bus stand. The video of the incident went viral. Expressing shock over the incident, the judges said that offences against women and children were increasing every day and not in all cases the police could wait until a complaint was filed to take necessary action. Instead, the authorities can keep a track on media reports, including social media, and act swiftly based on such videos and reports that highlight these offences. A separate wing should be set up for the purpose of monitoring and taking action, the judges said. The judges observed that this incident was an eye-opener and therefore the court thought it fit to initiate suo motu proceedings. The court impleaded the Chief Secretary, the Home Secretary and the Director General of Police in the case and sought their response.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-for-dedicated-wing-to-act-on-offences-highlighted-by-media/article33262237.ece
06 December 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Two killed in accident||S. Rani (34) and her infant son, S. Ramakrishnan (1) of Semminipatti near Vadipatti were killed when a mini-bus knocked down the motorbike on which they were riding here on Friday night. The police said that R. Seenivasan (37) was riding the bike along with his wife and two children from Semminipatti to Vadipatti Road. A mini-bus that was coming from the opposite direction hit the bike in which the mother and infant died. Seenivasan and Muthukrishnan (3), who sustained injuries have been admitted to the GH in Vadipatti.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-killed-in-accident/article33261432.ece
06 December 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Madurai hospital model selected for award||The Aravind Eye Care System in Madurai is one of the 13 winners of the ‘Sanford and Sue Greenberg Prize to End Blindness by 2020.’ The award will be given through an online ceremony scheduled for December 15. Sanford D. Greenberg lost his eyesight during his junior year in college. In 2012, when Mr. Greenberg was the Chairman of the Board of Governors of The John Hopkins University's Wilmer Eye Institute, he instituted a campaign and prize for those who work towards eradicating blindness in humans by 2020. Thirteen winners will share $3 million in prizes for their scientific and medical contributions towards eradicating blindness.. Chairman of Aravind Eye Care System R.D. Ravindran will receive the prize on behalf of the hospital. Dr. Ravindran said their model made eye care services affordable. One clinic to 80 centres A single clinic established in 1976 had grown into a network of 80 centres serving around 6.9 million people. Last year, 4.6 million eye examinations were conducted and 5.20 lakh surgeries performed. Aravind had its own manufacturing facility to produce intra-ocular lenses, implanted during cataract surgery. “Vision can be restored through surgery for 70% of blindness cases among the public. But the challenge lies in making the patients in remote places come to the nearest eye care centre. We have made eye care accessible to everyone. We are conducting camps and 80 vision centres are present across the State, where patients are treated through tele-consultation,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aravind-hospital-model-selected-for-award/article33262128.ece
06 December 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||HC seeks reason for delay in taking a decision on Bill||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has sought to know when a decision would be taken with regard to the amendment Bill pertaining to the Tamil Nadu Appointment on Preferential Basis in the Services under the State of Persons Studied in Tamil Medium Act, 2010. A Division Bench of Justices N. Kirubakaran and B. Pugalendhi suo motu impleaded the secretary to the Governor as one of the respondents in the public interest litigation petition filed by advocate G. Sakthi Rao in Madurai. The decision was pending for more than eight months, the court observed. The bill to amend the Act was passed in the legislative Assembly on March 16 and sent to the Governor for assent. However, it is still pending before the constitutional authority and as a result of this students who studied in Tamil Medium are suffering. The State must be directed to ensure that only those who had completed their entire education in Tamil Medium were eligible under the Person Studied in Tamil Medium quota, the petitioner said and also sought a direction not to issue the PSTM certificates for distance education courses. The case was adjourned till December 9.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-seeks-reason-for-delay-in-taking-a-decision-on-bill/article33262131.ece
06 December 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Millets cultivated on 33,169 hectares||Millets have been cultivated on 33,169 hectares in Madurai district between April and November this year. Agricultural department officials said the coverage area has increased this year. The major millets that are cultivated in this region are maize, sorghum (cholam), pearl millet (cumbu) and finger millet (ragi). Minor millets include barnyard millet (kuthiraivali), kodo millet (varagu) and little millet (samai). P. Subburaj, Deputy Director of Agriculture (State Schemes), said millets had been mostly cultivated in rain-fed blocks such as Tirumangalam, T. Kallupatti, Kallikudi, Sedapatti and Usilampatti. M. Ramalingam, a farmer from Sivarakottai in Kallikudi taluk who has cultivated minor millets, said he expected a better yield this year thanks to the recent rains. Joint Director of Agriculture T. Vivekanandan said there had been a reduction in cotton cultivation area in these rain-fed blocks. “Many farmers who raised cotton last year have shifted to millets, especially maize,” he said. Concurring with this viewpoint, P. Manikandan, a farmer from Usilampatti block, said cotton farmers earned less last year. “Cultivation of cotton is labour-intensive. However, there is a shortage in availability of agricultural labourers as many prefer to go for work under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme,” he said. Moreover, cotton was sold at lower rates last year, he said. Out of the 33,169 hectares of millets cultivated from April till November, maize was raised on around 20,000 hecatres. Pamayan, an organic farming expert, said more farmers had shifted to maize this year. “Since it is a cash crop, more people have shifted to raise maize. While the yield is high, the input cost for raising maize is also high,” he said. However, there had been fall armyworm attack reported across maize fields this year, said O.A. Narayanasamy, State president of Tamil Vivasayigal Sangam. “We are hoping that the yield from maize crop do not come down this year,” he said. Mr. Vivekanandan said the department had been encouraging farmers to cultivate millets, one of the goals of the National Food Security Mission.  The millet shift Many farmers who raised cotton last year have shifted to millets  Maize has been cultivated on around 20,000 hectares  While the yield is high, the input cost for raising maize is also high||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/maize-finds-favour-with-madurai-farmers/article33262133.ece
06 December 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Last date extended for DDE courses||The last date for submitting applications for admissions to 25 courses offered by the Directorate of Distance Education of Madurai Kamaraj University has been extended to December 31. A university press release said admissions were conducted with the approval of UGC-Distance Education Board. Credit system had been introduced instead of marks to evaluate students. The subjects and syllabus would be on par with regular courses. Seminars would be conducted online during the COVID-19 pandemic. Admissions were going on at Palkalai Nagar campus, MKU Evening Colleges on Alagarkoil Road in Madurai, Theni, Dindigul, Periyakulam and Palani; MKU constituent colleges at Tirumangalam, Vedasandur, Sattur and Aruppukottai. For further details contact 63797 82339 or 94420 26474, or send a mail tomkuddeodl@gmail.com, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/last-date-extended-for-submitting-applications-to-dde-courses/article33262134.ece
06 December 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Woman, infant killed in road accident||A woman, S. Rani, 34, and her one-year-old son S. Ramakrishnan, of Semminipatti near Vadipatti were killed when a mini bus knocked down the motorcycle they were riding pillion on Friday night. Police said R. Seenivasan, 37, was riding the bike with his wife and two children from Semminipatti to Vadipatti. A mini bus that was coming from the opposite direction hit the bike in which the mother and the infant were thrown down and were killed. Seenivasan and Muthukrishnan, 3, who sustained injuries have been admitted to the Government Hospital in Vadipatti. Bus driver V. Vellaisamy, 40, has been arrested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-infant-killed-in-road-accident/article33262127.ece
06 December 2020||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Lorry owners to go on strike from Dec. 27||Members of the State Lorry Owners’ Federation have announced an indefinite strike from December 27, demanding the State government’s intervention in fulfilling their long-standing demands. M.R. Kumarasamy, president of the organisation, said lorry owners would go on a strike, from 6 a.m. on December 27. “The strike has been announced, condemning the Transport Department, whose actions have affected our livelihood,” he said. He said in the country, the price of diesel was the highest in Tamil Nadu. As many as five lakh vehicles are operating in the State, and they will stay off the roads from December 27. He added that lorries from other States too would not operate in Tamil Nadu. The association also expressed solidarity with the farmers protesting in Delhi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lorry-owners-to-go-on-strike-from-dec-27/article33261411.ece
06 December 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||BJP dharna enters second day on Saturday||The 72-hour dharna by Bharatiya Janata Party to highlight the failure of the Congress government in the Union Territory entered the second day on Saturday. Talking to reporters, Mr. Saminathan said the Congress government failed to fulfil any of the promises it made during the last Assembly election. The party came to power promising job to at least one person in a house. Though the number of youths who registered at the Employment Exchange had increased, the government failed to address the unemployment issue. If the BJP came to power in the Union Territory, the textile mills would be revived, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bjp-dharna-enters-second-day-on-saturday/article33262189.ece
06 December 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Puducherry records 44 new COVID-19 cases||The Union Territory on Saturday recorded 44 new COVID-19 cases from screening 2,001 people. As per the data released by the Health Department, of the new admissions, 19 are in Mahe region, 18 in Puducherry and the remaining in Karaikal and Yanam. Out of the 419 active cases in Union Territory, 177 are in government hospitals in the four regions and remaining 242 under home quarantine. The overall tally stands at 614 deaths, a total of 37,209 cases and 36,176 patients treated and discharged.  Public message Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi in a public message said the spread of virus was well under control due to wearing of masks, social distancing norms and hygiene. The spike in cases recorded in Mahe was after two families went to Kerala and without reporting to the COVID-19 centre spread the infection. Special Secretary Pankaj Kumar Jha was camping in Mahe to assist the administration, Ms. Bedi also added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/puducherry-records-44-new-covid-19-cases/article33262196.ece
06 December 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||‘Take legal recourse’||Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy on Saturday said the government would stand with the Electricity Department employees in opposing the Union Government’s decision to privatise the department and was even willing to join them in taking legal recourse. He urged the employees’ union to attend to complaints and make sure power services were not disrupted during their protest against the Centre’s move to privatise the Electricity Department. Addressing a press conference here, the Chief Minister said the government had passed an unanimous resolution in the House opposing the move. The resolution was forwarded to the Centre by Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi, he said. The Union Ministry of Home Affairs, four days ago, had informed the government its intent to go ahead with the privatisation move, the Chief Minister said. “After we received the MHA communication, the government informed the employees’ association of the Centre’s decision. Since then, the employees are not attending to complaints of power disruption causing hardship to public. The employees have every right to protest but it should not cause inconvenience to public. We asked the employees to approach the Court and the government will also join them in the legal process,” he said. The government will not allow the Centre to privatise the power utility service in the Union Territory, he added. Free rice On free rice issue, the Chief Minister said the government had sought financial sanction for Rs. 79 crore to disburse Rs.2000each to 1.75 lakh BPL families and Rs.1000each to 1.50 lakh APL families, in lieu of free rice, for five months. However, the Lt. Governor gave sanction for distributing money only for the last three months, he said. “The government took the decision to provide support to the families in the prevailing difficult times. The money for free rice has been earmarked in the current budget. Even then Ms Bedi has refused to give sanction,” he said. The Chief Minister also flayed the Centre for bringing the farm legislations without any proper consultation. The three farm legislations were enacted with aim to bring corporates into the agriculture section. The entry of corporates would create monopoly and destroy farmers livelihood means, he said urging the Centre to withdraw the legislations. Social Welfare Minister M. Kandasamy and Minister for Revenue M.O.H.F Shahjahan were at the press conference||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/take-legal-recourse-cm-tells-electricity-department-staff/article33262191.ece
06 December 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Parties, govt. employees stage demo||Puducherry on Saturday witnessed demonstrations by political parties separately to express solidarity with the protesting farmers in New Delhi. The Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam cadre, led by legislator and party South convenor R. Siva and North convenor S.P. Sivakumar, staged a demonstration in front of the headpost office. Holding black flags, party workers raised slogans against the Centre and demanded withdrawal of the farm laws. Separately, the Communist Party of India and Communist Party of India (Marxist) staged a demonstration near Immaculate Conception Cathedral, demanding withdrawal of the new legislations. An argument broke out between the workers and the police as the protesters tried to burn an effigy of the Prime Minister. Th Confederation of Government Employees’ Association also staged a protest near the Headpost Office to condemn the Union Government for bring a legislation to help “ruling party’s corporate friends.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/parties-govt-employees-stage-demo/article33262192.ece
06 December 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Police launch dedicated phone number||The Puducherry police have launched a dedicated phone number - 94892 05009 for the special branch unit to receive complaints relating to illegal activities, movement of anti-social elements, activities of banned organisations, sale of drugs, smuggling of arms, ammunition and explosives, controversial speeches and corrupt practices. “People can send information in the form of photos, videos, texts, voice clips etc. to the above number. Such information will be passed to the authority concerned for taking necessary action without any delay. The identity of the informant will be kept confidential,” said Akansha Yadav, Senior Superintendent of Police (Crime and Intelligence).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-launch-dedicated-phone-number/article33262194.ece
06 December 2020||Ramanathapuram,TAMIL NADU||Eight arrested||The Ramanathapuram district police have recovered 54.5 sovereigns of gold jewels, 21 kilograms of silk yarn and arrested eight persons, who had figured in many criminal cases in more than two districts. Commending the three Sub-Inspectors of Police – Guhaneswaran, Muruganathan and Saravanan and their teams – Superintendent of Police E. Karthik said that at least four of the accused were habitual offenders. The names of the eight arrested included Ranjith, Arivumani, Mantha alias Mahendran, Surya and others. As for the silk yarn theft, the police arrested two persons and recovered property worth Rs. 1.45 lakh. The Yemaneswaram police produced the two accused - Loganathan (38) and Kannan (49) in the court. In another operation, Mudukalathur DSP Ragavendra Ravi and team arrested four persons on Friday and seized 25 kgs of ganja, two crowbars and some sharp weapons, three cars and a two-wheeler. The accused were identified as Kaliswaran, Selvaraj, Arunkarthik and Sudakar. Discreet probe suggested that the accused had a history of crimes in Virudhunagar and Sivaganga districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/eight-arrested/article33261418.ece
06 December 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Stalin questions PM’s reluctance on MSP||DMK president M.K. Stalin led a protest here on Saturday in solidarity with the farmers agitating in New Delhi against the three laws to deregulate the agriculture sector. He questioned why Prime Minister Narendra Modi was not prepared to give an assurance to the farmers on the minimum support price (MSP). The DMK organised well-attended agitations in different parts of Tamil Nadu. Addressing the gathering near Kandhashramam here, Mr. Stalin said Mr. Modi talked up the benefits of the laws without specifying them. “How would he be able to do so when there are no benefits [in the law],” he said. “The Prime Minister says farmers will get the MSP. But why is he not ready to include it in the law,” he asked. Mr. Stalin said the agitation had shaken the Centre. He pointed out that while Mr. Modi had said his government would prevent farmer suicides, 10,281 farmers had ended their lives last year alone. Contrary to the Prime Minister’s assurance, the government had informed the Supreme Court that it would not implement the recommendations of the M.S. Swaminathan Committee report. Mr. Stalin criticised Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami, whom he called “Salem scientist”, for stating that the protest was instigated by traders and middlemen in Punjab. “The Chief Minister is saying, as if it were a new finding, that farmers can sell their produce in any part of the country under the new law. But would tomato farmers at Edappadi travel to Punjab to sell their produce,” he asked. He said the Chief Minister was not well informed about the laws, and he must “atone” for his betrayal of farmers. He reiterated that the State must oppose the laws and pointed out that Kerala and Punjab had mounted a legal challenge. Mr. Stalin also questioned the Chief Minister why he had not responded to DMK deputy general secretary A. Raja’s challenge to a debate on the 2G case and the charges of corruption against the DMK.  ‘Corporatising farming’ Participating in a protest at Mettupalayam, DMK women’s wing secretary M.K. Kanimozhi said that had the DMK been in power, Tamil Nadu would have been the first State to oppose the “anti-farmer, anti-people farm laws.” The BJP government at the Centre used its brute majority and passed the Bills in Parliament. The urgency with which it had passed the Bills showed that it wanted to corporatise the agriculture sector by eliminating small traders to pave the way for corporates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stalin-questions-pms-reluctance-on-msp/article33261407.ece
06 December 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||International Day for differently-abled observed||The International Day for persons with Disabilities was observed at the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital here on Saturday. R. Balajinathan, Dean of the Hospital, P.V. Dhanapal, Medical Superintendent, S.R. Rani, Resident Medical Officer, and other Department heads took part in the event held on the Hospital premises and organised by Department of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation. As part of the event, various competitions were held for students of the medical colleges and 18 winners were presented with prizes. Doctors from PMR, K. Nithya Manoj, Head, Dr. Padmapriya, Assistant professor, Vandhana Devi, Physiotherapist, Senthil Nathan, Physiotherapist, Karthikeyan, Physiotherapist, Sivagama Sundar, Occupational therapist, Muthukumar, Prosthetic technician and Heads from coordinating departments were felicitated. According to the doctors, the Department of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation was probably the first in the country to implement master health check-up for differently-abled persons annually. More than 200 persons availed themselves of the facility last year, the doctors added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/international-day-for-differently-abled-observed/article33261455.ece
06 December 2020||TENKASI,TAMIL NADU||BJP poll campaign vehicle attacked||An election campaign vehicle of the BJP, which was used for the ongoing local body electioneering in Kerala, was reportedly attacked by unidentified persons as the vehicle was on its way to the neighbouring State from Puliyarai near Tenkasi on Saturday evening. As the civic polls in neighbouring Kerala is to be held on December 8, electioneering has reached the crescendo as canvassing of votes would come to an end on December 6. When the vehicle, which was used for electioneering in Aryankaavu areas, was returning to Kerala via Kattalaikudiyiruppu near Puliyarai after the campaign at Achchankovil on Saturday evening, the speeding vehicle almost hit a two-wheeler. As an altercation broke out between the bike riders and the driver of the campaign vehicle, a few more reached the spot to damage the banners and the BJP flags. Following the incident, a group of BJP cadre, who gathered near Kottaivaasal, the Tenkasi – Kerala border, staged a demonstration. Puliyarai police are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bjp-poll-campaign-vehicle-attacked/article33262245.ece
06 December 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Efforts on to drain fields||Steps to drain water from inundated fields and residential areas have been taken up in full swing in Thanjavur and Tiruvarur as rainfall has receded in many parts of both districts. Moderate precipitation of more than or around 50 mm was recorded in Thiruvidaimaruthur, Manjalaru and Kumbakonam areas of Thanjavur district during the 24-hour period ending 7 a.m. on Saturday. As a fallout, natural draining of rainwater from agriculture fields into drain channels have been witnessed in major parts of the district. In Tiruvarur, increased flow in the irrigation system due to draining of rainwater from upstream areas coupled with moderate to heavy precipitation has resulted in waterlogging in fields in mid-stream and tail-end areas, according to farmers. Official sources say efforts have been initiated to ensure smooth and quick draining of water from fields in order to save the standing crop. There is a fair chance for reviving the standing crop at several places where the draining of floodwater can be achieved within 24 hours in the absence of any further rain. The sources anticipate that the area in which waterlogging can lead to perishing of the crop will be minimal given the desilting and clearing of drain channels taken up under the kudimaramathu scheme. Medical camps have been conducted in the areas affected by heavy rain for the past few days, th sources further add. Waterlogging will also pose a problem to coconut growers in Orathanadu, Pattukottai, Peravurani and Thiruthuraipoondi, farmers say. Pest attack S.V. Srinivasan of Thiruchitrambalam near Peravurani, a coconut farmer, laments that the rain for coconut cultivation will aggravate the problem of oryctes rhinoceros , known as kandamiruga vandu in local parlance, attack on the upcoming coconut trees in the region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/efforts-on-to-drain-fields/article33261414.ece
06 December 2020||THANJAVUR/TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||As rain continues, concern of delta farmers over crop damage grows||The continuing rain in parts of delta region and the weather forecast predicting more showers have left farmers worried over possible crop damage. Though the rain subsided in Nagapattinam district on Saturday morning, many parts of Tiruvarur continued to receive moderate showers. Parts of Thanjavur district also experienced mild showers. The rain has almost abated in Tiruchi and Pudukottai districts. Though initially happy over the heavy precipitation from Wednesday, the continuing rain in the region from Friday morning has been cause for worry. In Tiruvarur district, more than 150 mm of rain was recorded in Kodavasal and around 120 mm in Needamangalam during the 24-hour period ending at 8.30 a.m. on Saturday. Nagapattinam recorded 158 mm of rainfall, while Tharangambadi received 127.80 mm, Sirkazhi 123.60 mm and Thirupoodi 110 mm. Kollidam in the tail end of the delta recorded 98.80 mm and Sirkazhi 82.40 mm., during the same period. Paddy crop on an estimated 42,000 hectares has been inundated in Nagapattinam district so far. The figure could go up once the assessment is completed in the next few days. Officials are focusing on draining water from inundated fields and residential areas. The flow of rain water in rivers has also compounded the problem as it impedes draining of water from the fields. S. Ranganathan, general secretary, Tamil Nadu Cauvery Delta Farmers Welfare Association, said the prolonged waterlogging in the fields due to fresh downpour and heavy flow in the irrigation system had caused worry among farmers. Stating that the exact loss of yield or crop damage could be assessed only after the field gets drained in four or five days, Mr. Ranganathan said an initial assessment of the situation could be carried out through aerial survey. It would help in identifying the exact areas where the inundation was heavy and could possibly affect the samba/thaladi crop. He called upon the Union government to direct the Central Team that had arrived Tamil Nadu to assess the damages caused due to Nivar Cyclone in Cuddalore and in some Northern districts to conduct an aerial survey of the Delta districts particularly Tiruvarur, Nagapattinam and Mayiladuthurai districts. Two electrocuted In two separate incidents, two young girls hailing from Alangudi were electrocuted on Friday. T. Anjali, daughter of Tirugnanasamandham, resident of Nambampatti of Mankottai panchayat, was doing household chores when she came into contact with a live power line and died on the spot. She was a Plus Two student at Alangudi Girls Higher Secondary School. V. Swetha, a class 8 student of the same school, daughter of Venkatesan residing on TVS Street in Alangudi, died after she came into contact with an overhead power line that had snapped when she was playing on the terrace of her house. Alangudi police have registered a case and are investigating the matter. A 65-year-old woman was killed after a portion of a wall of her house collapsed at Ilangaichery village near Sendurai in Ariyalur district on Friday. According to sources, R. Muthulakshmi, the deceased, was cooking when the wall collapsed on her. Her daughter Amurha was in the mud house when the incident occurred. On hearing her alarm, Muthulaulau neighbours rushed to the spot and took her to Sendurai and then to Government Medical College Hospital in Thanjavur, where she died. She is the second victim to the current rain spell in the district.  Initial assessment can be carried out through aerial survey S. Ranganathan General secretary, Tamil Nadu Cauvery Delta Farmers Welfare Association||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/as-rain-continues-concern-of-delta-farmers-over-crop-damage-grows/article33261394.ece
06 December 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||127 fresh cases, nil death||The central districts on Saturday continued to record a low number of COVID-19 cases with 127 patients testing positive for the viral infection. No death was reported in the region, according to the bulletin issued by the Department of Health and Family Welfare. Tiruchi reported 32 fresh cases for the viral infection, the highest in the region on Saturday. Among them were primary contacts and patients with a history of respiratory illnesses. A total of 13 patients who were undergoing treatment at Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital were discharged after recovering from the viral infection on Saturday. All other districts in the region reported cases below 30. A total of 25 patients tested positive in Tiruvarur, while 22 tested positive in Thanjavur. Among them were local index cases with no travel or contact history, or patients with a history of Influenza-Like Illnesses and their immediate contacts. Karur reported 19 fresh cases for the viral infection among which were residents of Thanthonrimalai, Kulithalai, Gandhigramam. Interdistrict travellers Namakkal and Tiruchi also tested positive. Meanwhile, seven patients were discharged from Government Medical College Hospital after recovering from the viral infection. In Nagapattinam, 16 patients tested positive for COVID-19, while in Pudukottai, a sharp drop was reported with nine patients testing positive. Among them were primary contacts, local index cases and asymptomatic patients identified through fever camps. Four patients tested positive in Ariyalur district, while in Perambalur no new patients tested positive for COVID-19, recording a sharp fall in COVID cases in the two neighbouring districts. Meanwhile, a total of 360 throat swabs were lifted at the government hospitals and primary healthcare centres in the district and sent for processing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/127-fresh-cases-nil-death/article33261416.ece
06 December 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||CM’s remark draws ire||The State government’s decision to recommend to the Centre to name seven sub-sects of Scheduled Caste as ‘Devendrakula Velalars’ has met with strong opposition among the Vellalar community. Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami said in Sivaganga on Friday that the State government would recommend to the Centre the inclusion of seven sub-sects of Scheduled Caste such as Pallar, Kudumbar, Pannadi, Kaaladi, Kadayar, Vadhiriyar and Devendrakulathar in the ‘Devendrakula Velalar’ community. The decision has angered the Vellalars. Soon after the announcement, a large number of people belonging to various Vellalar outfits and forums blocked the traffic on National Highway at No 1 Tollgate. There were reports of protests in different parts of the district condemning the Chief Minister. “We are really shocked and appalled by the decision. It has disturbed the numerically and historically large vibrant Vellalar community,” said R.V. Hariharan, general secretary, Vellalar Munnetra Kazhagam and Sangam. Stating that it was a highly sensitive matter, he said the government should have understood and studied in detail the historical identity of the Vellalar community. “We have absolutely no problem in calling them as Devendrakulars. But, they can not be called Vellalars.” V. Krishnamurthy, former MLA, said there were 151 sub sects of Pillai community in Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Karnataka. They were traditionally called Vellalar. The decision of the State government had hurt their sentiments and should reconsider the move.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cms-remark-draws-ire/article33261390.ece
06 December 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||DMK cadre stage black flag protest||DMK cadre on Saturday staged black flag demonstrations in different parts of central districts to express solidarity with farmers protesting against the three new farm laws in Delhi and to press the Centre to repeal the laws immediately. A large number of cadre belonging to different parts of the district took part in the protest held near Anna Statue in Tiruchi. Holding black flags and wearing black shirts, the DMK men raised slogans against the Modi government for refusing to withdraw the farmers’ laws. They alleged that the Centre did not follow the statutory procedure before enacting the laws and stakeholders were not consulted. The protesters also raised slogans against Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami for supporting the laws. They said people were waiting to teach a lesson to the AIADMK government for supporting the anti-farmer laws. Former Minister and DMK’s district organiser V. Senthil Balaji led the protest held in Karur. A large number of cadre, including women, participated in the protest held at the roundabout near the bus stand. The protester indulged in sloganeering against the Prime Minister and Chief Minister. They accused the Centre of betraying the farmers. Former Minister M. Chinnasamy was among those participated. The party cadre staged demonstrations at Thanjavur, Kumbakonam and Pattukottai in Thanjavur district. The demonstration in Tiruvarur district was cancelled in view of the inclement weather In Mayiladuthurai, party treasurer T.R. Baalu led the protest. Other speakers included DMK organising secretary T.K.S. Elangovan and Rajya Sabha MP Tiruchi Siva. The party staged a protest in Nagapattinam town also.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-cadre-stage-black-flag-protest/article33261389.ece
06 December 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Protest against farm laws||Members of affiliate organisations of Left parties on Saturday burnt effigies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and industrialists Mukesh Ambani and Gautam Adani at Thiruparaithurai and Manapparai near here to register their protest against the three new farm laws. The protesters said the laws would favour only corporates and not farmers. The protests were held on behalf of the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee of which the Tamil Nadu Vivasayigal Sangam was a constituent, said Sangam district secretary Ayilai Sivasuriyan. A similar protest was held at Manapparai. The organisation members staged demonstrations at Tiruverumbur, Jeeyapuram, Uppilliyapuram and Valanadu. A total of 153 protesters were taken into custody by Tiruchi district police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/protest-against-farm-laws/article33261391.ece
06 December 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||DMK cadre stage demo in support of protesting farmers||Expressing solidarity with the farmers protesting against the Farm Laws in New Delhi and demanding the scrapping of these Acts, Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam cadre staged a demonstration here on Saturday. Led by the party’s Tirunelveli central district secretary Abdul Wahab, the cadre staged the demonstration near the Government Siddha Medical College in Palayamkottai. Mr. Wahab, while addressing the protesters, said the Farm Acts introduced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led government would make the farmers as labourers as these Acts had been designed in such a way to benefit the corporate. Without understanding the contents of these Acts, the Edappadi K. Palaniswami-led government in Tamil Nadu had supported it in the Parliament even as it was introduced. “After introducing New Education Policy and NEET, which are against the welfare of the common man, the Farm Acts had been introduced, which will make the farmers slaves of corporate firms,” Mr. Wahab warned. In the demonstration organised at Tenkasi, the DMK’s Tenkasi south district secretary Siva Padmanathan presided over the agitation. When the cadre of Left parties staged a demonstration and a road roko at Vannarpet in Palayamkottai demanding the scrapping of the Farm Acts, the police arrested 50 persons. Tiruchendur MLA Anita R.Radhakrishnan led the agitation organised in Tiruchendur while Thoothukudi MLA Geetha Jeevan and the party cadre staged a demonstration near VVD Signal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-cadre-stage-demo-in-support-of-protesting-farmers/article33262240.ece
06 December 2020||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Facility to store EVMs to be ready by January-end||The new facility for storing the electronic voting machines and the Voter Verifiable Paper Audit Trail (VVPAT), which will be used in the district during the elections, will be ready by January. The EVMs and the VVPATs are now being stored in the godown belonging to Agriculture Regulatory Marketing Society. Inspecting the storage facility under construction now at the cost of Rs. 4.35 crore on the Tirunelveli Taluk Office premises on Saturday, Collector V. Vishnu said the storage facility, which would have lift and CCTV cameras, would be ready by January last week. Tahsildar of Tirunelveli Bhagavathi Perumal, Tashildar (Elections) Kandappan and officials from Public Works Department accompanied the Collector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/facility-to-store-evms-to-be-ready-by-january-end/article33262241.ece
06 December 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK takes out procession to mark Jayalalithaa’s death anniversary||Members of the AIADMK led by Assembly Deputy Speaker Pollachi V. Jayaraman took out a black shirt procession in Tiruppur to mark the fourth death anniversary of former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa on Saturday. Tributes paid Around 400 members participated in the procession from Kumaran Memorial till Tiruppur Corporation office building, police sources said. Mr. Jayaraman, who is the secretary of AIADMK’s Tiruppur (urban) district unit, paid floral tributes to photo of Jayalalithaa near the Corporation building.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-takes-out-procession-to-mark-jayalalithaas-death-anniversary/article33262069.ece
06 December 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Surplus water released from Amaravathi dam||Surplus water from Amaravathi dam near Udumalpet in Tiruppur district was released on Saturday due to the increased inflow of water caused by the rain in the catchment areas. Officials from the Public Works Department (Water Resources Organisation) said that the water level touched 88 feet against the full reservoir level of 90 feet at noon on Saturday. Following this, 2,300 cusecs of water was released from the dam, of which 300 cusecs were released through the main canal on Saturday. As of 4 p.m., the storage was 3.886 tmc against the capacity of 4.047 tmc. The increased water inflow was due to the heavy rain in the eastern slopes of the Western Ghats caused by the Cyclone Burevi, which weakened on Thursday. The Public Works Department issued a flood warning as the water level touched 85 feet at 10 p.m. on Friday, officials said. This is the third time in this year where surplus water was released from Amaravathi dam, according to the officials. Revenue Department officials said the residents of two villages – Elayamuthur and Kallapuram – near Udumalpet on the banks of River Amaravathi have been warned not to go near the river. However, no evacuation was required on Saturday as the water discharge from the dam was relatively less, the officials said. Meanwhile, various restrictions were put in place at the Amanalingeswara Temple in Thirumoorthy hills due to flooding at the Panchalinga waterfalls. Temple officials said that the devotees were not allowed to walk around the temple and will be allowed to worship the deities only at the front of the temple. The temple premises were flooded on Thursday and remained closed for devotees, but was opened on Friday as the stagnant water was drained, officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/surplus-water-released-from-amaravathi-dam/article33261467.ece
06 December 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||CPI(M) alleges irregularities||Members of the CPI(M) on Saturday petitioned Tiruppur Revenue Divisional Officer M. Jegannathan alleging irregularities in the draft electoral roll. The petition alleged that IAS officials C. Samayamoorthy and K.S. Palanisamy, who were former Collectors of the district, along with their family members still featured in the draft electoral roll, even though both the officials were transferred to Chennai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cpim-alleges-irregularities/article33262067.ece
06 December 2020||Tiruvannamalai,TAMIL NADU||After 36 years, water flows into lake in Kariamanagalam||After a gap of 36-years, Kariamanagalam village in Tiruvannamalai district received water in its lake due to the removal of encroachments by the Water Resources Department. “When the Kuppanatham dam fills up, the water flows into the Chengam lake. The excess water from this lake has to flow into the Kariamangalam lake, but due to encroachments in the supply channel this was not happening,” said E. Rajaraman, assistant engineer, PWD, Water Resources Department. When the Department was rejuvenating 59 lakes in the district, they started clearing the encroachments in the supply channels too. One such channel was carrying water from Chengam lake to Kariamangalam lake. "It is a 900-metre channel. Encroachments included agricultural fields and a road. We have started clearing them and after 36 years, water started flowing through the channel into Kariamangalam lake," he added. ‘Not enough’ K. Venkatesh, a villager, said that more than 500 farmers were struggling as there was no water in the lake for the past 36 years. “Now we are hopeful that the situation will improve. However more water has to come,” he also said. Sevoor S. Ramachandran, Minister for Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Department, Sandeep Nanduri, Tiruvannamalai District Collector, offered flowers to the water flowing into the canal on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/after-36-years-water-flows-into-lake-in-tiruvannamalai-district/article33262055.ece
06 December 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Rain brings tears to shallot farmers in Kariapatti||Continuous drizzle and intermittent showers reported in Kariapatti taluk have destroyed standing shallot (small onion) crops in some of the villages. Even as Cyclone Burevi has been a disappointment for Virudhunagar district with no significant rain, the drizzle has ensured that prolonged wet condition has led to rotting of the crop. T. Muthuraj (43) of S. Maraikulam had raised shallot on two acres under trying condition. The 50-day-old crop would have been ready for harvest in another 10 to 15 days. “We would have made a profit of around Rs. 3 lakh for all the investment and hard work,” said his wife, M. Muthupillai (35). But, now the family of four, including two girl children, faces debts. The seed itself cost them around Rs. 1 lakh. Besides, they had spent at least Rs. 30,000 for pumping water from a farmer’s well in their neighbourhood. “After spending around Rs. 2 lakh, we stare at a total crop loss,” she said. Deputy Director (Horticulture), P. Radhakrishnan, said that rotting has been found in some farms while good number of farmers have already harvested their crop. Stating that the main reason for rotting was due to lack of crop rotation, Mr. Radhakrishnan said that the affected farmers have been advised to go for crop insurance on payment of Rs. 1,500 an acre. “Where the rotting has just started the farmers have been advised to apply Trichoderma Viride and vermicompst to revive the crop,” he said. Survey of the fields was under way, he said. Meanwhile, Virudhunagar district secretary of Tamil Nadu Vivasayigal Sangam, V. Murugan, said that shallot farmers in various villages, including Chokkanendal, Siththanendal, Periya Alangulam and S. Thoppur were affected. Tamil Nadu Government should pay Rs. 1 lakh an acre compensation to the farmers who were affected due to Cyclone Burevi. The crop insurance scheme was not farmer-friendly despite the issue being raised during the farmers grievances redressal meeting, Mr. Murugan complained.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/shallot-crop-destroyed-in-kariapatti-say-farmers/article33261426.ece
06 December 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||DMK stages protest||Former DMK State Minister, Thangam Thennarasu, flayed the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam of ‘pledging’ the interests of people of Tamil Nadu to the Bharatiya Janata Party. Speaking at a protest organised by the party here on Saturday to show solidarity for the farmers protesting in Delhi, Mr. Thennarasu said that the three farm laws amended by the BJP Government in the Centre has sounded the death knell for the farming sector. Farmers will lose their right to choose the crop they want to raise. “Hereafter, they will have to grow only what is told to them. Similarly, they will not have the freedom to sell their produce at their will. They will have to sell them to people identified at a rate fixed by the corporates,” he alleged. Taking a dig at the AIADMK leaders, Mr. Thennarasu said that both its coordinator, O. Pannerselvam and joint coordinator, Edappadi K. Palaniswami showed keen interest to align with the BJP. Party leader, K.K.S.S.R Ramachandran, Tenkasi MP, Dhanush M. Kumar and MLAs, A.R.R. Srinivasan and S. Thangapandian, were among those who took part in the protest. Dindigul Extending their support to the farmers agitation, the DMK members said that despite facing the cold wave sweeping New Delhi, the farmers were protesting against the Centre to withdraw the controversial farm laws. However, the BJP’s attitude of not heeding to the just demands showed their mindset was not to protect the masses, but only some select friends in the corporate world. Leading the demonstration at Manikoondu, senior deputy general secretary and MLA I Periasami said that the AIADMK government too had welcomed the laws and it showed that Edappadi Palaniswami was keen to hold on to power and was not concerned about the farmers. About 2,000 cadre had assembled at the venue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-stages-protest/article33261420.ece
06 December 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Tension in Virudhunagar after AIADMK men pelt stones||Tension prevailed for a brief while after the ruling party cadre pelted stones at a marriage hall where members of Vellala Munnetra Kazhagam were lodged after being arrested for burning the effigy of Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, on Saturday. The police said that over 25 cadre of the outfit staged a road blockade near MGR statue junction on Saturday afternoon. They were opposed to Chief Minister’s announcement made on Friday that recommendation would be sent to Centre on reclassifying seven Scheduled Castes under single nomenclature Devendrakula Velala. They also burnt two effigies of the Chief Minister, the police said. After they were arrested and kept in a marriage hall, All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam cadre, led by its Virudhunagar Town secretary, Mohammed Nainar, arrived there to protest against those who burnt the effigy. A section of them pelted stones on the marriage hall. However, no one was injured in the incident, the police added. Police personnel pacified the ruling partymen after which they dispersed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tension-in-virudhunagar-after-aiadmk-men-pelt-stones/article33261427.ece
06 December 2020||December 06 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Political parties extend support to farmers protesting in Delhi||Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam district unit leaders and party cadre, in response to a call given by party president M.K. Stalin, on Saturday staged protests across the district opposing the Centre’s farm laws. The party’s urban east unit in-charge N. Karthik led the protest in the city near the Coimbatore South Taluk office, urban west unit in-charge Payya Gounder led the protest near Saravanampatti, east rural unit in-charge Senapathi in Malumichampatty, rural south unit in-charge Thendral Selvaraj in Pollachi and rural north unit in-charge C.R. Ramachandran joined Ms. Kanimozhi in Mettupalayam. The cadre held placards and raised slogans against the Central government and AIADMK government in the State and expressed solidarity with the farmers protesting in Delhi. The leaders criticised the AIADMK government for extending support to the three farm laws and urged the Centre to repeal the laws. The laws, that the Centre had passed, would only favour corporate companies and eventually pave away for doing away with the minimum support price system, they added. Members of the Left parties staged a protest in Pollachi in which more than 150 cadre participated. The CPI (M) staged a demonstration at Pollachi as part of the protest. They were arrested and detained at a wedding hall. Later, they were released in the eveing. The CPI (M) alleged that the police issued threats to the Students Federation of India members, who were taking part in the protest, and there was a tussle between the protesters and the police. Members of the DMK and All India Kisan Sabha (AIKS) staged protests in Tiruppur. Around 350 persons participated in the protest organised by the DMK, police sources said. DMK functionaries from the district participated in a black shirt protest and drove bullock carts at the venue. The Tiruppur City Police personnel detained all the protesters at a private hall and released them later, sources said. Members of the CPI(M)-affiliated AIKS staged a protest outside the Tiruppur District Collectorate. Around 30 members participated, who raised slogans against the Central government for bringing the farm laws. A section of the protesters attempted to burn a photo of Prime Minister Narendra Modi at the spot and were stopped by the police personnel, sources said. All the protesters were arrested and detained in a wedding hall. They were released in the evening, according to the police sources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/political-parties-extend-support-to-farmers-protesting-in-delhi/article33262061.ece
06 December 2020||December 06 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||137 new cases, one death in Coimbatore district||Erode district reported 46 new COVID-19 cases on Saturday, taking the district’s tally to 12,651. While 65 persons were discharged, 419 persons continue to be under treatment. Salem district reported 97 positive cases. According to health officials, 95 are indigenous, including 40 in Salem Corporation limits, two patients returned from Dharmapuri. In Namakkal, 30 cases were reported, one patient returned from Chennai. Krishnagiri recorded 15 new cases and 16 were discharged on Friday. This has taken the total number of current cases to 163 and the total number of infections in the district to 7,477. Dharmapuri recorded 20 new cases and 16 were discharged on Friday. This has taken the total number of current cases to 131 case and total number of infections to 6,143 cases. As many as 137 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Coimbatore district on Saturday. The Health Department said that 932 persons were under institutional care and 69 persons were discharged from different treatment centres on Saturday. The death of a 45-year-old man at the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital took the district’s official death toll to 617.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/46-new-cases-in-erode-97-in-salem/article33261461.ece
06 December 2020||December 06 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||VCRI conducts virtual international conference||Research abstracts on important diseases of poultry and livestock, especially trans-boundary emerging and re-merging diseases and on zoonoses, were presented at a virtual international conference organised by Veterinary College and Research Institute (VCRI), Orathanadu. The abstracts were presented through e-poster by 425 participants comprising undergraduate, postgraduate students and field veterinarians from all over the country and the United Kingdom, USA, Qatar and Singapore. The conference was jointly organised by the Department of Veterinary Microbiology, VCRI, and The Department of Veterinary Microbiology, College of Veterinary Sciences, Pookode, Kerala.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vcri-conducts-virtual-international-conference/article33261387.ece
06 December 2020||December 06 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Water level||The water level in Periyar dam on Saturday stood at 124.25 feet (permissible level is 142 ft.), with an inflow of 952 cusecs and discharge of 1,267 cusecs. In Vaigai dam, the level was 56.96 ft. (71 ft.), with an inflow of 1,255 cusecs and a discharge of 719 cusecs. Combined storage in Periyar credit was 5,471 mcft. Rainfall recorded in the region in the 24 hours ending 6 a.m. on Saturday was (in mm): Kodaikanal 48.6, Sothuparai dam and Peranai 32 each, Veerapandi 22.4, Uthamapalayam 19.1, Periyar dam 19, Gudalur 18.7, Thekkadi 17.2, Idayapatti 10.1, Andipatti 3.6, Manjalar dam and Kallandiri 3 each, Pulipatti 1.6, and Melur and Thaniamangalam 1 each.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article33261430.ece
06 December 2020||December 06 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Salem||The Eye Foundation Super Specialty Eye Hospitals: Branch inauguration, 3.30 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/salem/article33261456.ece
06 December 2020||December 06 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||power shutdown||December 8 (9 a.m. to 4 p.m.): Seeranaikenpalayam, Madhampatty, Devarayapuram, and Thondamuthur sub-stations: Seeranaikenpalayam, PN Pudur, Vadavalli, Vedapatty, Veerakeralam, Telugupalayam, Velandipalayam, Saibaba Colony, part of Sundapalayam, Selvapuram, Madhampatty, Alandurai, Kuppanur, Karadimadai, Poondy, Semmedu, Theethipalayam, Perur, Goundanur, Kalampalayam, Perur Chettipalayam, Devarayapuram, Boluvampatty, Viraliyur, Naradipuram, JN Palayam, Kaliannanpudur, Thennamanallur, Kondayampalayam, Thendral nagar, Thondamuthur, Kembanur, Muthipalayam, Kalikkanaickenpalayam, Poochiyur, Puthupalayam, Dheenampalayam, Uliyampalayam, Dhaliyur, Kulathupalayam, and west Chithirai Chavady.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-shutdown/article33262065.ece
06 December 2020||December 06 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||06-12-2020-city cinema||MUSIC DANCE DRAMA  Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan's Cultural Festival 2020, Chennai Open-Air Live Programme up to 19.12.2020 in association with South Zone Cultural Centre ( Ministry of Culture, Government of India ) at Bhavan's Rajaji Vidyashram Campus, No.6, Kilpauk Garden Road, Kilpauk, Chennai-600 010. Today at 6.00 pm: Sri L. Shankar & Sri Vikku Vinayakram with Sri Selvaganesh & Sri Swaminathan - Special Programme " Over the Stars ''.Tomorrow: 7th: Harikatha by Sri U. Ve Dushyanth Sridhar with Ms. Anahita and Ms. Apoorva ( vocal ) andSri Sai Raghavan ( Mrudangam ) on 'Rama Bhaktiyum and Vibhaktiyum '. Programme supported by : Sriram Group, Ramco Cements & Ramco Industries, AVACholayil Health Care ( Medimix ), Larsen & Toubro, Seshasayee Paper & Boards, MGM Health Care, SMKFomra Institute of Technology,Kauvery Hospitals.,Nalli Silks, Sri Krishna Sweets, Sri K.V. Rangaswamy ( L & T ), Dhanvantari Nano Ayushadi,Newry Properties & IndianOil Corporation. Admission subject to following S.O.P, ( Temperature check, Hand Sanitizing,Wearing Mask and Distance Seating ). NO TICKETS Also Watch Live:http://krishnansons.com/ bhavans-art-festival-2020||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/06-12-2020-city-cinema/article33262057.ece
06 December 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||BJP executive meet empowers State chief to discipline leaders||Amidst increasing reports of groupism and one-upmanship, the State executive committee meeting of the BJP ended in Belagavi on Saturday with a resolution to empower the president to constitute committees to rein in leaders who flout party discipline and shoot off their mouth in public. The meeting also resolved to ask the State government to pass laws against cow slaughter and “love jihad”. The other resolution was to ensure that BJP-backed candidates win in at least 80% of gram panchayats. Captain Ganesh Karnik, spokesperson, told journalists the two laws were “essential to protect the Hindu society”. He said several members had felt it necessary to have an internal discipline committee that would reprimand leaders who spoke against the party in public. Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai said officers would study the anti “love jihad” Bill passed in Uttar Pradesh to understand its focus. He said the earlier attempts by the State government at banning cow slaughter were stopped by the then Governor in 2012. “There is an anti cow slaughter law in Karnataka already. We need to update it with some new provisions that ensure effective implementation,” he said. On the election committee, to be formed ahead of gram panchayat polls, Mr. Karnik said it will have senior leaders, youth and strategists. “Party president Nalin Kumar Kateel would announce the chairpersons and other members of the two committees soon,” he said. The police had made tight security arrangements at the venue of the State executive committee meeting in Gandhi Bhavan. Of around 500 members in the committee, only around 130 were allowed to attend, in view of the COVID-19 scare. Apart from Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa and national general secretaries Arun Singh and C.T. Ravi, Mr. Kateel, Deputy Chief Ministers Govind Karjol, Laxman Savadi, and C.N. Ashwath Narayan, yuva morcha president Tejaswi Surya, and others attended the meeting.  The State executive committee meeting of the BJP also resolved to ensure that BJP-backed candidates win in at least 80% of GPs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bjp-executive-meet-empowers-state-chief-to-discipline-leaders/article33261594.ece
06 December 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Singh tight-lipped about Cabinet expansion||BJP national general secretary Arun Singh remained tight-lipped about the party’s message to the Chief Minister regarding the much-debated and delayed Cabinet expansion. “That is an internal matter of the party. It cannot be discussed before the media,” he said. Earlier, Mr. Yediyurappa had said that he would decide on Cabinet expansion after receiving the message sent by the party high command through Mr. Singh. Mr. Singh met Mr. Yediyurappa and the three Deputy Chief Ministers separately, apparently over this matter. B.Y. Vijayendra, party vice-president and Mr. Yediyurappa’s son, was present. Some party leaders, who did not wish to be named, said that Mr. Singh had asked Mr. Yediyurappa to go ahead with the Cabinet expansion, without suggesting any change in names picked by the latter. It is being said that Umesh Katti and C.P. Yogeshwar may be inducted into the Cabinet, along with defectors R. Shankar, N. Nagaraju (MTB), and Muniratna. A party member said this would be announced in a few days in Bengaluru. “There are no plans to drop any member from the Cabinet,” said the leader. Three of the 14 core committee members remained absent. Union minister D.V. Sadananda Gowda, Karnataka in charge D.K. Aruna, and octogenarian former Minister C.M. Udasi, did not attend the core committee meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/singh-tight-lipped-about-cabinet-expansion/article33261601.ece
06 December 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||BJP focused only on party politics: DKS||The BJP is focused only on party politics and is least interested in governing, D.K. Shivakumar, KPCC president, said in Belagavi on Saturday. He was en route to a party progrmme at Terdal in Bagalkot district. “The BJP can hold multiple core committee and State executive committee meetings in Belagavi. That does not matter to the people, especially those from north Karnataka. What matters is whether the government organises the winter session in the Suvarna Soudha in Belagavi,” he said. “The BJP keeps claiming it built the Suvarna Soudha in Belagavi. But for two years, it has failed to hold the session in Belagavi. What is the use of the majestic building if the government can not hold a session even for a day?” He also claimed the government had failed to provide compensation to farmers who suffered losses in the floods of 2019 and 2020. That is inexcusable, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bjp-focused-only-on-party-politics-dks/article33261481.ece
06 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Lukewarm response to bandh call||The Karnataka bandh call given by various organisations received a lukewarm response in a majority of districts across the State. In Bengaluru, the police detained over 800 protesters from Kannada organisations when they started gathering at Town Hall by Saturday around 10 a.m. to protest formation of the Maratha Development Corporation. Vatal Nagaraj, president of the Kannada Chaluvali Vatal Paksha, and Narayana Gowda, president of Karnataka Rakshana Vedike, were among those detained. Protesters had planned to march to the Chief Minister’s residence but were pre-empted by heavy police deployment at Shivananda Circle, and in and around the CM’s residence. Normal life remained largely unaffected amid the protests. Senior police officials attributed this to preventive action taken ahead of the bandh. “On Friday itself, around 700 people were taken into preventive custody. Additional personnel were deployed at entry and exit points to the city to keep a check on protesters entering Bengaluru. Patrolling was intensified in sensitive areas,” said a senior police official. Tyre shops and junk yards were asked to shut down in anticipation of protesters approaching them for old tyres. Petrol pump stations were instructed not to sell fuel in cans and bottles for a day. “Our offensive action contained the protest. At the local level, police officers spoke to activists and asked them not to participate in the march,” the official added. Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation buses and autos were functioning as usual, though a section of taxi drivers on aggregator apps supported the bandh. “I tried to book a taxi from Vijay Nagar on Uber and Ola, but with little success. One driver called me back but asked me not to book on Uber and instead pay him Rs. 300 in cash. I finally took an auto, which I got easily,” said a resident of Banashankari. Two minor incidents of miscreants pelting stones at buses were reported in K.R. Puram and Chandapura. Many shops at Gandhinagar and Chickpet remained shut to support the bandh. However, normal life remained unaffected in other parts of the city. While colleges reported low attendance on Saturday, principals attributed it to the COVID-19 pandemic and not the bandh. K.R. Venugopal, Vice Chancellor of Bangalore University, said that there was no impact on classes on account of the bandh. “Because of the elaborate measures, no case of violence or damage to property has been reported so far,” said Police Commissioner Kamal Pant. At several places in Karnataka, including Dharwad and Gadag, the police made preventive arrests when protesters tried to block roads. In Hubballi-Dharwad, the situation remained normal with public transport unaffected, and shops and commercial establishments functioning as usual. There was no response to the bandh in Yadgir and Raichur either.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/lukewarm-response-to-bandh-call/article33262018.ece
06 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||No new English-medium sections in government schools this year||The COVID-19 pandemic has delayed the State’s plans to introduce sections in an additional 1,000 government schools where English would have been the medium of instruction for the 2020-21 academic year. Sources in the Department of Primary and Secondary Education said that although the government had granted permission to start the initiative in an additional 1,000 schools, it has been put off as the State has yet to decide when schools can reopen their doors to students and hold physical classes. At present, students are attending classes on digital platforms and learning through televised programmes. “The final approval for the list of schools where these English-medium sections will be opened is yet to be given. The department is waiting for the approval of Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar,” a source said. Parents and activists are unhappy with the delay in progress of the initiative. Suma R., a domestic worker, said she was unable to afford the fees in private schools where English is the language of instruction. “I want my child to study in an English-medium school, but I cannot afford the fees as I have lost my job. Private schools now no longer admit students under the RTE reservation quota. Families like us have been put to a lot of hardship,” she said. The State government had, in 2019, amended the Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education Rules, making it not mandatory for private unaided schools to admit economically backward students if there are government or aided schools in the same locality. This amendment had, in fact, increased the demand for English-medium sections in government schools. The first set of English-medium sections in 1,000 government schools was started in the 2019-20 academic year, after it was mooted by the then Congress-JD(S) coalition government headed by H.D. Kumaraswamy. It received a positive response from parents. In many instances, the demand was more than the number of seats available, and admissions to English-medium sections had to be closed. In several schools, the intake of students in English-medium sections was double that in Kannada-mediums sections. However, the initiative was also criticised by a section of writers and activists, who demanded that the government shut down these sections and impart education in Kannada or the student’s mother tongue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/no-new-english-medium-sections-in-government-schools-this-year/article33261487.ece
06 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Session to be a stormy affair||The winter session of the State legislature, which starts in Bengaluru from Monday, is expected to clear a few controversial Bills, while the Opposition has a ready arsenal to attack the government. The ruling BJP, caught in the conundrum of Cabinet expansion, caste-based appeasement politics by forming corporations and “unsavoury” developments around the Chief Minister’s office, will have much to answer for if the Opposition puts its act together. Several Bills A few ordinances promulgated by the government would be introduced as Bills, including the Industrial Disputes and Certain other Laws (Karnataka Amendment) Bill, 2020. This was not passed in the Upper House during the monsoon session held in September last. It remains to be seen if the proposed anti-cow slaughter Bill will be tabled this session, while the controversial “love jihad” law may only figure in discussions. Legislative Assembly Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri  has proposed to discuss the “one nation - one election” theme propagated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the last two days of the session, December 14 and 15. The Opposition, particularly the Congress, which has questioned the “existence of the government” in the State, is expected to utilise the session to corner Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on the alleged suicide attempt by his political secretary N.R. Santosh and multiple postponements of the Cabinet expansion. The latter has led to groupism and apparent paralysis of the administration. The alleged confession made by A.H. Vishwanath, former Minister and BJP MLC, that the Chief Minister had sent a “big amount of money” to him during the byelection to Hunsur Assembly constituency is expected to be raised by the Congress. Caste turmoil The Chief Minister’s proposal to seek reservation for Veerashiva-Lingayats under the Central OBC quota, the Centre’s silence on the previous Congress government’s recommendation for inclusion of some communities in the ST quota, and formation of caste-based corporations are expected to provide ammunition to the Opposition. Nomination of heads to boards and corporations when the State is facing financial constraints is expected to embarrass the government. Issues related to elections to the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike, handling of COVID-19, handling of cases related to K.G. Halli and D.G. Halli, delaying of compensation to flood-affected farmers, and the Centre’s denial of adequate funds to the State for drought and floods relief works are expected to figure during the session. The ruling BJP will try to turn the tables on the Congress, reminding it of defeats in the byelections and polls held elsewhere in the country. The role of the Opposition JD(S) in the session is being viewed with curiosity since the party is seen as cosying up to the ruling BJP. Many legislators are likely to skip the session owing to their involvement in campaigning in elections to gram panchayats.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/session-to-be-a-stormy-affair/article33261597.ece
06 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Doctors see fall in viral infections||The onset of winter is usually marked by a spike in respiratory infections and exacerbation of underlying lung diseases. But this year, thanks to COVID-19 precautions followed by people, doctors are seeing a drastic fall in other viral infections and respiratory ailments. Adoption of infection control measures, such as hand hygiene, wearing masks, social distancing and practising cough etiquette, has curtailed the usual seasonal influenza activity, doctors said. “This part of the year, we usually see a rise in the number of patients, especially children, with lower and upper respiratory tract infections and viral fever. Our OPDs would be flooded with them. However, the scenario is different this time. We are hardly seeing any common cold, cough and influenza cases,” said Sudarshan Ballal, chairman of Manipal Hospitals. There has been a dramatic fall, may be more than 30%, in patients reporting with other respiratory ailments despite the dip in temperature and fluctuating weather, he said. Dr. Ballal, who is part of the State’s COVID-19 expert committee, said precautions to be followed for the pandemic are proven and time-tested methods of prevention of transmission in case of any airborne infection. Vasunethra Kasaragod, Consultant Chest Physician at Vikram Hospital, said most respiratory infections are acquired by inhalation route, mainly in the form of respiratory droplets and aerosols that are dissipated in the air we breathe. “Using a barrier like surgical masks can prevent this, especially the respiratory droplets. Thus, most of the viral infections, like COVID-19, influenza, respiratory syncytial virus (RSV), adenoviruses and bacterial infections like tuberculosis, can be prevented,” he said. However, he cautioned, “The peak flu season is in late winter (January and February). So, we will have to watch for the effectiveness of masks during that period.” Srivasta Lokeshwaran, Consultant-Interventional Pulmonology at Aster CMI Hospital, said there has been a fall in the number of patients with other infections, mainly because mild COVID-19 infections that mimic any other airborne viral infections are more or less managed at home. “Due to the shortfall of the COVID-19 RT-PCR sensitivity, some cases are presumptively managed and treated as a mild COVID-19 infection,” he said. Sheetal Chaurasia, Consultant, Pulmonology at Manipal Hospitals, Whitefield, said many respiratory infections, including influenza, seasonal respiratory viruses and tuberculosis, share commonality in transmission with SARS-CoV-2. Hence, COVID-19 precautions have worked for other infections too.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/doctors-see-fall-in-viral-infections/article33262011.ece
06 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||No elections in 26 GPs||In view of Datta Jayanti celebrations in Chikkamagaluru district from December 27 to 29, elections to gram panchayats in the district would be held in the first phase on December 22, according to a notification issued by the State Election Commission. Meanwhile, 26 GPs in nine districts have been dropped from those going to elections, as these GPs have been upgraded as urban local bodies by the State government in view of the increased population. On Chikkamagaluru polls, the decision was taken on suggestions from the Director General and Inspector General of Police, Karnataka, and the DC of Chikkamagaluru district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/no-elections-in-26-gps/article33261598.ece
06 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BJP, JD(S) close ranks to unseat Council chairman||The ruling BJP and the JD(S) are expected to come together to unseat the current chairman of Legislative Council K. Prathapchandra Shetty in the winter session, as the former has already moved a no-confidence motion against the Congress legislator. Sources in both the BJP and the JD(S) confirmed the move. BJP sources said that the notice to move no-confidence motion had been given in the last week of November, and that leaders of both parties have had initial an round of discussion on the issue. The winter session will begin on December 7. BJP sources said the notice was given after the party felt that the chairman was “not acting neutral” and was providing undue advantage to the Congress. They also pointed out that the chairman had not allowed the vote on Land Reforms Bill on the last day of the monsoon session despite fervent appeal by the treasury benches. “The discussion on the Bill went into midnight and finally, the House was adjourned sine die without the Bill put into vote,” sources said. The support of the JD(S), which has 14 members in the 75-member House, is crucial to the BJP, which lacks number. While the BJP after a clean sweep in the recent elections to graduates’ and teachers’ constituencies, has 31 members in the House, the Congress has 28 besides Mr. Shetty. There is one Independent member. On its part, the JD(S) had supported the Congress to defeat the Labour Reforms Bill, which was defeated on the last day of the monsoon session. “In the changing political scenario when the JD(S) sees the Congress as its principal opponent, it has decided to support the BJP’s move. Though the Deputy Chairman is a JD(S) legislator, it is to be seen how power will be shared between the two parties. Both parties have not had final discussion. The no-confidence motion is expected to come on or after December 8,” a JD(S) legislator said. In June 2017, senior BJP leader D.H. Shankarmurthy, who was the Council chairman, had survived a trust vote against him moved by the Congress with the help of JD(S) support. He had prevailed by a margin of one vote. He had stepped down from the chair and participated in the vote as a member.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bjp-jds-close-ranks-to-unseat-council-chairman/article33261592.ece
06 December 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘Atmanirbhar Women’ scheme launched||Bank of Baroda (BoB) on Friday launched its ‘Atmanirbhar Women’ scheme under Baroda Gold Loan. The scheme features gold loan at a very low interest rate for women. BoB, in a release, said this scheme was exclusively meant for helping women to be self-reliant. Sanjiv Chadha, MD and CEO of BoB, launched the scheme. Vikramadithya Singh Khichi, executive director of BoB from the Mumbai corporate office, Mini T.M., zonal head, Bengaluru zone, Ravindra Rai M., head of gold loan vertical, BoB, and K. Satyanarayana Naik, regional head, Bengaluru North region, were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/atmanirbhar-women-scheme-launched/article33261483.ece
06 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘What steps have been proposed to protect the Great Indian Bustard?’||The High Court of Karnataka has directed the State government to inform it of the immediate steps it has proposed to take to protect and preserve the Great Indian Bustard (GIB), a critically endangered bird species, in its habitat at Siruguppa in Ballari district. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice S. Vishwajith Shetty passed the order on a PIL petition filed by Edward Santosh Martin, a Ballari-based conservationist, andtwo others. “The Wildlife (Protection) Act has been enacted to protect wild animals and birds. Thus, it is the obligation of the State to protect wildlife. Moreover, as per Article 48 of the Constitution, it is part of State policy to protect forests, wildlife, and animals in the country. Also, it is the duty of everyone to protect wildlife as per Article 51,” the Bench observed, while directing the government to file its response by December 21. The petitioners complained that the alleged “illegal” constructions such as watchtowers, anti-poaching camps, and digging up of waterholes being put up by the Forest Department in the habitats of GIB had pushed the species to the brink of extinction. Contending that the constructions were causing extreme hindrance to the survival of GIB as the birds required open grasslands and scrublands for survival, the petitioners said that “if the surviving eight GIBs in Siruguppa do not breed this winter, Karnataka will lose its pride forever”. While seeking direction to the government to stop all construction activities in the bird’s habitat immediately, the petitioners sought measures to protect the endangered species.  If the surviving eight Great Indian Bustards in Siruguppa do not breed this winter, Karnataka will lose its pride forever petitioners in the case||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/what-steps-have-been-proposed-to-protect-the-great-indian-bustard/article33261485.ece
06 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||KIA halt station likely to open next week||The long wait for the railway halt station near Kempegowda International Airport (KIA) could end next week with the South Western Railways (SWR) expecting to get the go-ahead soon. Ashok Kumar Verma, Divisional Railway Manager, Bengaluru, told The Hindu that the notification is expected on Monday or Tuesday. The SWR is expected to give a stoppage for trains being operated on the Yelahanka- Bangarpet line once the halt station is operational. The station has been a long-pending demand of citizens for over a decade as at present, air passengers mainly rely on road transport such as taxis, personal cars and BMTC buses to reach the airport. However, with KIA being located over 35 km from the CBD, the long journey on Bengaluru’s traffic-choked roads is often a frustrating and long one. Modalities of train operations will also come in around the same time, the DRM said. The SWR has in the past revealed that three pairs of trains to and from the KIA could be explored — two from Krantiveera Sangolli Rayanna Bengaluru Railway Station, and a third from Yelahanka. The return journey could see three trains depart from Devanahalli. Tickets are likely to be priced at Rs. 30 from Majestic and Rs. 10 from Yelahanka. From KSR Bengaluru, the train journey could be around 1.15 hours. New terminal The new station terminal at Baiyappanahalli will be named Sir M. Visvesvaraya Terminal, a special gazette dated December 4 said. The DRM said it will be operational by February end. Once functional, the terminal is expected to help decongest KSR Bengaluru City and Yeshwantpur terminals as more trains to Mumbai and Chennai regions can start or terminate at Baiyappanahalli.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kia-halt-station-likely-to-open-next-week/article33262005.ece
06 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Congress meet on GP polls today||To work out the party’s strategy for elections to gram panchayats, Randeep Surjewala, AICC general secretary in charge of Karnataka, will hold a meeting with party legislators, district congress committee presidents, and former legislators, at the Palace Grounds in the city on Sunday. KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar, Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah, party secretary in charge of Karnataka Madhu Goud Yaskhi, and State-level office-bearers of the party will attend and hold discussions on issues related to GP elections, selection of candidates, and campaigning.  The meeting is also expected to discuss a strategy to be adopted during the winter session of the legislature by the Congress.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/congress-meet-on-gp-polls-today/article33261596.ece
06 December 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Special train to Jabalpur||SWR will run a weekly train to Jabalpur. Train No. 02140 Jabalpur-Yesvantpur Superfast Special will leave at 6.45 a.m. on Saturdays and reach Yesvantpur at 1.30 p.m. on Sundays. Train No. 02139 Yesvantpur-Jabalpur will depart at 3.30 p.m. on Sundays and reach Jabalpur at 11.15 p.m. on Mondays.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/special-train-to-jabalpur/article33262007.ece
06 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||CCB collects hair samples of actors||The Central Crime Branch (CCB) on Saturday obtained hair samples of actors Ragini Dwivedi and Sanjjana Galrani, in connection with a drugs case. A city court had granted permission to the police to collect the samples. “Analysis of hair samples can reveal narcotics use for up to one year. Testing will be done at the Central Forensic Science Laboratory, Hyderabad,” said a police official. Earlier, the CCB had taken hair samples of the actors for a follicle test, but the FSL refused to analyse them citing technical reasons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ccb-collects-hair-samples-of-actors/article33262015.ece
06 December 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Art works invited||Karnataka Lalithakala Academy has invited artists to display their works at the 49th Annual Art Exhibition 2020-21. Artists from Karnataka, or those who are residing in Karnataka for the past five years, are eligible to display their art at the exhibition. They can send their works along with the application by December 21. It should reach the Registrar, Karnataka Lalithakala Academy, Kannada Bhavan, J.C. Road, Bengaluru - 560002.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/art-works-invited/article33262016.ece
06 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||SUCI (C) State unit supports Dec. 8 bandh||The Socialist Unity Centre of India (Communist), State committee, on Saturday extended its support to the nationwide bandh on December 8 called by peasants under the banner of Sanjukta Kisan alliance comprising kisan alliances including All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee. In a release, SUCI(C) said the bandh is against the anti-peasant pro-corporate black farmer laws, Acts, and electricity Bill enacted by the Centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/suci-c-state-unit-supports-dec-8-bandh/article33261595.ece
06 December 2020||bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Appointed||P. Sateesh, Assistant Director, Karnataka Government Insurance Department, has been appointed Deputy Director of the department, a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/appointed/article33261482.ece
06 December 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Change in class timings||In view of the winter session of the State legislature, which starts on December 7, there will be a change in timings of e-class telecast for 8th, 9th and 10th standards on Doordarshan's Chandana channel. A schedule of video lessons to be telecast between December 7 and 13 from 7 a.m. to 10.30 a.m. and from 5 p.m. to 6.30 p.m. has been released by Department of State Education Research and Training.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/change-in-class-timings/article33262006.ece
06 December 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Power shutdown||There will be no power supply on December 7, 8, 9, 10 and 12 between 11 a.m. and 4 p.m. in the following areas. The areas that will be affected are: F-3 feeder: December 8, 10, and 12. Chandapura Road, Samanduru, Besthamanahally and surrounding areas. F-04 feeder: December 8, 10 and 12; Geretiganabele, Samanduru, Submangala and surrounding areas. F-05, F-06 and F08 feeders on December 7 and 9, Thali Road, Bannerghatta Road, Chandapura Road, Attibele Road, Anekal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/power-shutdown/article33262012.ece
06 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Bike thief arrested||The Bagalur police on Friday nabbed a 23-year-old bike thief and recovered 10 stolen motorcycles from him. The accused, Rohit, was stopped by police personnel patrolling near Shettihalli Gate. He was escorted to the police station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bike-thief-arrested/article33262020.ece
06 December 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Art workshop in the lap of nature||Ten noted artists from different parts of the State took part in a five-day art workshop amidst lush green of the Western Ghats, that began on December 1. The team under the leadership of C.S. Krishna Setty, former chairman of Karnataka Lalithakala Academy, visited different places in Alur and Sakleshpur and did paintings. The event began with a visit to Parvathammana Betta near Rayara Koplu in Alur taluk. Later, they visited another hillock, Maharaja Durga, nearby. The second day the team visited Mukanamane Falls and Bisale Ghat. On Thursday, the third day, the participants visited Manjarabad, near Sakleshpur. For the last eight-nine months, artists were confined to their studios due to COVID-19 pandemic. “The objective behind the workshop was to get out of the four walls and to enrich our experiences by speaking to people and understanding the world around”, said Mr. Krishna Setty, director of the camp. The artists captured the scene before them on the canvas as part of the workshop. “Because we were on the spot, we painted some landscapes. The experience we go through as part of the workshop reflect in our paintings in the coming days”, he said. The daily session ended with a presentation of artworks by participants and interaction. B.S. Desai, artist residing in Hassan, organised the event. Artists K.V. Shankar, Vijay Jagavakar, Kariyappa Hanchinamani, Hareesh Malappannavar, T.S. Jayadev, Anand Bekwad, Ganesh Doddamani and Anil Kumar were among the participants.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/art-workshop-in-the-lap-of-nature/article33261583.ece
06 December 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Ban order extended||Shivamogga Tahsildar has extended the prohibitory orders in the city upto Monday. Earlier the administration had clamped the prohibitory orders in Shivamogga city limits till Saturday morning, in the wake of clashes following an assault on a Bajrang Dal activist on Thursday. The district administration has deployed police force across the city to avoid untoward incidents. Additional policemen have been called in from Haveri, Davangere and Chitradurga districts. Several men suffered injuries in clashes between two groups in Gandhi Bazar, after the Bajrang Dal activist was assaulted by miscreants. The police have arrested 62 people in connection with the clashes and registered 10 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ban-order-extended/article33261589.ece
06 December 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Basavaraj Horatti, seers, teachers launch relay hunger strike||Accompanied by heads of various mutts and teachers, MLC and former Minister Basavaraj Horatti launched a relay hunger strike in Dharwad on Saturday seeking fulfilment of various demands pertaining to schoolteachers and private educational institutions. And on the first day of the agitation, the government issued an order fulfilling one of the demands of the protesters. Launching the agitation, the heads of various mutts including Gurusiddha Rajayogindra Swami of Moorusavir Mutt, Hubballi, expressed displeasure over the State government’s apathy towards the long-pending demands of the teachers and private unaided educational institutions, particularly those imparting education in rural areas. They said that although repeated pleas had been made to the government on behalf of the teaching and non teaching staff of private institutions, the government had not responded. Mr. Horatti said that the teachers and private school managements were forced to launch the strike as the government had failed to respond to their repeated pleas. He said that employees of private aided institutions were being deprived of benefits extended to teachers of government institutions. JD(S) national General Secretary N.H. Konaraddi suggested launching a ‘padayatra’ to Bengaluru, if the government failed to respond again. Karnataka Rajya Madhyamika Shala Noukarara Sangha, private educational institution employees, and Management Boards Coordination Committee and other organisations have jointly launched the strike. The main demands are providing grant-in-aid to all permanent unaided educational schools and colleges that meet the criteria; implementation of the recommendations of Basavaraj Horatti Committee on Notional Increment; abolition of the new pension scheme and reinstatement of the old one; extension of ‘Jyoti Sanjivini’ scheme to aided educational institutions; release of salary grants to N.A. Muttanna Memorial Police Children Residential School and reopening of the school; implementation of Vaidyanathan Committee Report in total; immediate withdrawal of the order on stopping recruitments of teachers; extension of all benefits provided to government employees to employees of private aided educational institutions and others.  Grants released The State government on Saturday issued an order releasing salary grants to 22 employees of N.A. Muttanna Memorial Police Residential School in Dharwad. This was one of the demands of the protester. Although Mr. Horatti had written a series of letters to the CM on the salary grants and reopening of the school, nothing had happened till date. Mr. Horatti has said that the agitation would continue till the fulfilment of the remaining demands||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/basavaraj-horatti-seers-teachers-launch-relay-hunger-strike/article33261477.ece
06 December 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||136 GPs to go to polls in Dharwad district||The elections to 136, of the total 144 gram panchayats, in seven taluks of Dharwad district will be held in two phases, with 65 going to polls in the first and 71 in the second phase, Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad Nitesh Patil has said. Addressing presspersons in Dharwad on Saturday, the DC said that of the 144 GPs in the district, the term of eight will end in December. Barring them, the elections would be held for a total 1,952 seats in 136 GPs. As per the timetable already notified, the notification for elections to 65 GPs of Dharwad, Alnavar, and Kalaghatagi taluks to be conducted in the first phase will be issued on Monday [December 7] and the nomination papers will be accepted from the same day. Similarly, the notification for elections to 71 GPs of Hubballi, Kundagol, Navalgund, and Annigeri taluks for the second phase will be issued on December 11, he said. In the first phase of election, polling would be held on December 24 and in the second phase it will be held on December 29. The counting will take place on December 30 and the poll process would be completed by December 31. Of the 136 GPs going to polls, Dharwad taluk has 533 GP seats in 34 GPs; Alnavar 47 in four GPs; Hubballi 373 in 26 GPs; Kalaghatagi 340 in 27 GPs; Kundagol 346 in 23 GPs; Kundagol 346 in 23 GPs; Navalgund 204 in 14 GPs, and Annigeri 109 in eight GPs. Mr. Patil said that 888 polling stations will be set up and there are 6,03,592 voters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/136-gps-to-go-to-polls-in-dharwad-district/article33261480.ece
06 December 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Poor response to Karnataka bandh call in Kalaburagi||As many as 50 members of various Kannada organisations were detained in Kalaburagi on Saturday while they were protesting against the State government’s decision to set up a Maratha Development Board. The bandh call had no major impact on normal life, other than sporadic protests and demonstrations for a couple of hours. Commercial establishments functioned as usual. Autorickshaws and buses also continued to operate. Members of Kannada Sanghatanegala Okkoota gathered at Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Chowk and raised slogans against the State government and Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa and demanded the abolishing of the newly-formed Maratha Development Board as it was promoting Marathi over Kannada. Criticising the government for setting aside Rs. 50 crore for the board, the agitators claimed that the BJP government’s move to create the new board was to woo the Maratha vote bank for the upcoming byelections. A group of agitators also performed ‘Urulu Seve’ at the SVP chowk before they were arrested by the police. The police also foiled the bid by Kannada Rakshina Vedike activists to burn an effigy of Mr. Yediyurappa. The police have made elaborate security arrangements in the city to prevent any untoward incidents. The district police had deployed two teams of Karnataka State Reserve Police and seven platoons of District Armed Reserve Police. Two teams of KSPR attached to the police commissionerate were also deployed. In Belagavi The bandh had little impact on life in Belagavi. All government and private offices, shops, colleges, banks, and other establishments were open. Buses ran as usual, as also private vehicles. A few activists who came to the Rani Channamma Circle for a protest were arrested. Police were extra cautious in ensuring there was no disturbance in the city that played host to the BJP State executive committee meeting. “We rounded up about 60 activists on Friday. They have been released after seeking bonds for good behaviour,” said an officer. They deputed additional forces in sensitive areas including Maratha-dominated areas in the old city - Tilakwadi, Peeranwadi, Shahapur and Yallur. In Yadgir, Raichur The bandh failed to get a good response in Yadgir and Raichur districts. However, activists submitted a memorandum to authorities and urged the government to withdraw its order forming the authority. Business establishments, commercial shops, APMC, and other trades continued business as usual. Public and private transportation was normal. NEKRTC operated its bus services without any hurdles. Congress leaders extended outside support. MLA Basanagowda Daddal, former MP B.V. Naik, former MLC N.S. Bose Raju visited the spot. Some activists protested by carrying bricks on their heads. In Ballari In Ballari and Koppal, the agitation was largely confined to symbolic protests. In Ballari, the issue of bifurcation of the district to carve out new Vijayanagara district was also clubbed. Activists associated with different factions of Karnataka Rakshana Vedike and other civil society groups gathered at Gadagi Chennappa Circle and staged a demonstration for a few minutes. In Koppal, activists, led by Pampanna Naik, district president, Karnataka Rakashana Vedike (Praveen Shetty faction), demonstrated yoga poses at the agitation site. “Several issues are affecting the people in Koppal and elsewhere in the State. Kalyana Karnataka is backward and the government needs to come up with a separate budget for its growth. The silt in Tungabhadra is a cause for concern. Farmers are suffering as prices are constantly falling. The government should focus on addressing these real issues,” an activist said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/poor-response-to-karnataka-bandh-call-in-kalaburagi/article33261479.ece
06 December 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Seer for Shiroor Mutt to be appointed soon||Sode Vadiraja Mutt, one of the Ashta Mutts of Udupi, on Saturday announced appointing a seer to Shiroor Mutt during the oncoming Uttarayana season. Lakshmivara Tirtha Swami of Shiroor Mutt passed away without appointing a successor on July 19, 2018, and Sode Mutt had been looking after its affairs thereafter. Vishwavallabha Tirtha Swami of Sode Mutt told reporters in Udupi that a competent person has already been identified to succeed Sri Lakshmivara Tirtha. Following the untimely demise of Sri Lakshmivara Tirtha amidst several pending issues, Sode Mutt was able to settle most of them during the last two years, Sri Vishwavallabha Tirtha said. Renovation of Shiroor Mutt at Shiroor and Udupi was done and renovation of Santhyar Mutt, located 2 km from Shiroor, was under way. The ‘brahmakalasha’ of this mutt would be done on Hanuman Jayanti. Papuje Mutt near Hiriyadka, under the control of Shiroor Mutt, that was in bad shape too would be renovated. Sri Vishwavallabha Tirtha said funds for renovation, daily expenditure of Shiroor Mutt as well as the goshala were arranged from rental incomes from Lakshmi Summit building at Manipal and buildings on Car Street in Udupi. The seer said Sode Mutt was also able to resolve contentious issues surrounding Shiroor Mutt’s underconstruction Kanaka Mall in Udupi through conciliatory measures. While an entrepreneur from Mumbai, a devotee of the mutt, would complete the mall under joint development by handing over the last four floors of the total eight floors to the mutt, one-time settlement of the loan from Corporation Bank (Rs. 26.5 crore book value) was also on the cards. The seer acknowledged the role of Ravindranath Shanbag, M.B. Puranik, Tonse Jayakrishna Shetty and Tothadamane Diwakar Shetty in the conciliation efforts. Demands for payment of income tax from the department were being settled by following the due procedure, chartered accountant of Shiroor Mutt H.V. Gautham said. Meanwhile, the mutt got registered under Section 12AA of the Income Tax Act to get exemptions available to other religious and charitable endowments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/seer-for-shiroor-mutt-to-be-appointed-soon/article33262144.ece
06 December 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Beating the COVID-19 blues through music||An initiative by a Mangaluru-based music academy to beat the pandemic blues has resulted in 500 live concerts being conducted online as of Sunday with the participation of musicians from across the country. During the lockdown, Mani Krishnaswamy Academy conceptualised and introduced Facebook live music programmes from April 5 and arranged an average of two concerts every day, said academy secretary P. Nityananda Rao. Mr. Rao told reporters here on Friday that over 600 musicians from across the country participated in these concerts. They included 86-year-old Neela Ramgopal, 10 and 11-year-old Nandana Ramakrishnan and Shaym residing in the U.S., Vidyabhushana, Chitraveena N. Ravikiran, Gayathri Venkatraghavan, Nisha Rajagopal, Prarthana Sai Narasimhan, and others. Mr. Rao said the viewership has been tremendous and some programmes had more than 1 lakh viewers. Over 30,000 followers were there for the academy's FB page, he said. Mr. Rao said that based on suggestions from well-wishers, the academy sought financial assistance from patrons, who responded positively. The online viewers have so far contributed over Rs. 15 lakh out of which 50% were being paid as honourarium to the musicians.  Academy honorary president Dharmadarshi Harikrishna Punarur, treasurer Anand Rao, and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/beating-the-covid-19-blues-through-music/article33262147.ece
06 December 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Bengaluru-Mangaluru special back on track||Railways has decided to reintroduce Bengaluru-Mangaluru Central-Bengaluru four-days a week special express via Kunigal for a limited period. The special service introduced in September first week was cancelled by September-end on the premises of low patronage. A communique from SWR and Southern Railway’s Palakkad Division here said Train No. 06515 KSR Bengaluru – Mangaluru Central special express will depart Bengaluru at 10.30 p.m. on Monday, Tuesday, Thursday, and Saturday with effect from December 8 to December 24 to arrive in Mangaluru at 8.35 a.m. the next day.  In the return direction, Train No. 06516 Mangaluru Central – KSR Bengaluru special express will depart Mangaluru Central at 8.10 p.m. on Tuesday, Wednesday, Friday, and Sunday with effect from December 9 to December 25 to arrive in Bengaluru at 7 a.m. the next day.  It will have one AC two-tier coach, one AC three-tier coach, seven second-class sleeper coaches, four general second-class coaches, and two second-class with luggage-cum-brake vans.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bengaluru-mangaluru-special-back-on-track/article33262019.ece
06 December 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Safety drill at LPG terminal||An emergency safety drill to check the preparedness of emergency services agencies to handle exigencies was conducted on the premises of M/s Total Oil India Pvt., Ltd., (LPG Terminal) on the city outskirts. An incident of LPG leakage while filling it to a bullet tanker was enacted to test the emergency response system. As soon as LPG leak was noticed, sprinklers at the location began sprinkling water even as there was an emergency siren. Safety personnel of the unit began spraying high amount of water wearing adequate protection gears. An employee who was affected by inhaling LPG was immediately attended by a medical team while emergency services vehicles from the Karnataka Emergency Services and Fire Force as well as those from New Mangalore Port Trust arrived at the scene within nine minutes and undertook rescue operations.  Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra, after watching the drill, discussed about emergency abatement measures deployed at the unit as well as safety issues involved while transporting LPG through tankers. Total Oil’s Deputy Director P. Rajesh said the unit was observing December as the month of chemical disaster management. Different training programmes were planned to create awareness and give training to stakeholders concerned, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/safety-drill-at-lpg-terminal/article33262143.ece
06 December 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Ayodhya trust branch opened||Pejawar Mutt Seer Sri Vishwaprasanna Tirtha Swami on Saturday inaugurated the district office of the Sri Ram Janma Bhoomi Tirtha Kshetra Trust at Vijayadhwaja near the mutt. A trustee of the Trust, the seer said donation of funds movement would be arranged for Ram Temple from January 15.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ayodhya-trust-branch-opened/article33262149.ece
06 December 2020||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Wellesley bridge repair to be completed soon||The State Archaeology Department has taken up the repair of the Wellesley Bridge across the Cauvery in Srirangapatna. The cost has been pegged at Rs. 28 lakh and Archaeological Conservation Engineer S.M.Pujar expressed confidence that bulk of the repair work, including on the retaining wall a portion of which has collapsed, will be completed within a month. The bridge was completed in 1804 during the regime of Mummadi Krishnaraja Wadiyar and under the supervision of Dewan Purniah at a cost of Rs. 5.5. lakh. It is an example of native architecture and the structure is of stone pillars capped with stone corbels and stone girders and was named after the then Governor General Marquis of Wellesley. Mr. Pujar said this is a protected monument but the structure had weakened owing to vagaries of nature and continuous pressure exerted by the river flow which peaks during monsoon. It is closed for heavy traffic though the locals make use of it but is temporarily out of bounds when the discharge from the Krishnaraja Sagar dam is heavy. This is the first major repair works undertaken in recent decades and the vegetation that had covered the retaining walls will be removed and the repairs will follow the prescribed norms of conservation, Mr. Pujar added. Repair of another bridge also across the Cauvery - Lushington Bridge - at Sathegala in Kollegal taluk of Chamarajanagar district, is also underway. It collapsed in 2018 due to floods and the department has earmarked Rs. 2 crore for its reconstruction. Though the work commenced in December last year, periodic flooding has delayed its completion and the civic works are expected to be completed during summer. The bridge was constructed in the 1830s and named after Lushington who was the Governor of Madras between 1827 and 1835. In design and architecture, it is similar to the Wellesley Bridge.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/wellesley-bridge-repair-to-be-completed-soon/article33261586.ece
06 December 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||‘Lost goodwill owing to tie-up with Congress’||Regretting his party’s tie-up with the Congress to form a coalition government after the 2018 Assembly elections, former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy said he lost the goodwill he had earned during his first tenure as Chief Minister in the government formed with the support of the BJP. Addressing a press conference here on Saturday, Mr. Kumaraswamy said the JD(S) was “emotionally trapped” into a coalition with the Congress due to former Prime Minister H.D. Deve Gowda’s commitment to secularism. While he blamed former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah and “his group” in the Congress for ruining the goodwill he had earned during his earlier tenure as Chief Minister, Mr. Kumaraswamy said he had not suffered a betrayal to such an extent from the BJP. Accusing Mr. Siddaramaiah of conspiring to weaken the JD(S), Mr. Kumaraswamy recalled the “propaganda” carried out by the Congress leader during the run-up to the 2018 Assembly polls by referring to the JD(S) as the “B” team of the BJP “just to keep one community away from the party”. It was this “propaganda” by Mr. Siddaramaiah that helped the BJP bag 105 seats in the elections. “Or else, the BJP would not have won more than 70 to 75 seats,” the JD(S) leader said. To a charge that he was cosying up to Chief Minister B.S. Yeddiyurappa, Mr. Kumaraswamy said he meets the Chief Minister openly unlike the “secret meetings” of Mr. Siddaramaiah. “Should I reveal whom he meets secretly?” the JD(S) leader threatened, but refused to reveal despite persistent questioning by the reporters. “It will be revealed when the time comes. The Congress leaders will themselves reveal it to you,” he said. However, Mr. Kumaraswamy said he had told the Yediyurappa government that his party will support any good work taken up by the government and added that he favoured the present BJP government to continue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/lost-goodwill-owing-to-tie-up-with-congress/article33261600.ece
06 December 2020||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Additional trains to run from Mysuru||Several trains will begin operation in Mysuru Division from December 7 till December 19 in response to the growing demand from public. While some of the trains are fully reserved, the authorities have also introduced unreserved trains to run in the division for the first time after the train services were suspended with effect from March 22 due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Senior officials in the division said depending on the occupancy of these trains the services could be extended. They also said that passengers have to comply with all COVID-19 related protocols including wearing of masks in the train and at the railway stations. The fully reserved trains include Mysuru-Talaguppa Express and its corresponding service from Talaguppa to Mysuru. It will run from December 9 from Mysuru till December 18 and from December 10 from Talaguppa till December 19. The Mysuru-Bagalkot Express will run from December 7 from Mysuru till December 16 and the corresponding service from Bagalkot will operate from December 8 to December 17. The unreserved trains include daily operation of Mysuru-KSR Bengaluru Express from December 7 to 16 and the corresponding service from Bengaluru to Mysuru from December 8 to 17. Similarly, Mysuru-Chamarajanagar Passenger and the corresponding service from Chamarajanagar to Mysuru will run from December 7 to 16. Mysuru-Bangarpet MEMU service will run in both the directions from December 7 to 17 and is unreserved. In addition, Chamarajanagar-Tirupati express will run from December 7 to December 31 and the corresponding service from Tirupati to Chamarajanagar will commence from December 8 and will run till January 1, 2021, as festival special service.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/additional-trains-to-run-from-mysuru/article33261588.ece
06 December 2020||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Second spot for district||Mysuru district ranks 2nd in the State in terms of performance of the Revenue Department. A release said the monthly performance ranking for November 2020 by the department is based on prompt and highest disposal of revenue cases in mutations, land conversion, survey and phodi disposal, revenue course case disposal by the deputy commissioner and the assistant commissioner among others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/second-spot-for-district/article33261587.ece
06 December 2020||December 06 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||BMTC aims to introduce revamped Intelligent Transport System in March||The Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC) is likely to overhaul its Intelligent Transport System (ITS) by March 2021. The upgraded system includes a new mobile app with safety features for women, a bus surveillance system, passenger information system at bus stands, vehicular tracking system and other features. It will be taken up under the Nirbhaya scheme at an estimated cost of Rs. 40.92 crore. The transport corporation will also install cameras and panic buttons in 5,000 buses. According to officials, the new mobile app will have provisions for an SOS button that will allow users to send an SMS, voice message, picture or videos with their current location to their list of emergency contacts. They can also use it to send their location and video to the Bengaluru Police’s women’s helpline and the BMTC control room as it will be integrated with the ‘Suraksha’ app. K. Santosh Babu, Director (IT), BMTC, said that in addition to providing safety features for women commuters, the new mobile app will help passengers by providing details such as estimated time of arrival (ETA) of buses, location of nearest bus stops, and enabling the purchase of tickets through digital transactions. The BMTC hopes to get it right this time around. “In the past, attempts were to provide ETA and other details on the mobile app. However, passengers faced several issues as the app could not provide accurate details. While developing the new app, measures will be taken to provide real-time information so that passengers can plan their journey,” said the official. The mobile app will be integrated with cab services and bike rental operators. “Integration of mobile apps with other service providers will allow passengers to book cabs or bikes for first- or last-mile connectivity. They can buy tickets on the apps too,” said Mr. Babu. It will also be integrated with Namma Metro, KSRTC and other services, and will be made available in Kannada and English. The corporation had earlier built an ITS by roping in a private firm as system integrator. The ITS has been operational since 2015. However, the private firm ran into financial trouble resulting in ‘discrepancies’ in services. Short-term tender The BMTC has floated a fresh short-term tender for the project and hopes to complete the process by December-end. In the previous tender, the premium quoted was around Rs. 59 crore, but the sanctioned amount was Rs. 41 crore, said BMTC Managing Director C. Shikha. “Barring the ticket collection system, the rest of the components in the ITS, such as vehicular tracking, mobile app, and surveillance measures, will be covered under the new project. We are hoping that the new system will be in place by March,” she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bmtc-aims-to-introduce-revamped-intelligent-transport-system-in-march/article33262010.ece
06 December 2020||December 06 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Bank cheated in Rs. 56 crore loan||The anti-corruption wing of the Central Crime Branch (CCB) booked the directors of an organic agricultural and food business company, and their associate for allegedly cheating a bank after availing a loan of Rs. 56 crore in 2009. The money was used for purposes other than what was stated in the loan application, said the police. Based on a complaint filed by the Deputy General Manager, IDBI, the CBI booked the accused Ramesh Gowda and his wife Ramya, who are directors of Green Organics Private Limited, and their associate Chandrashekhar Balasubramanyam. They were on Wednesday charged with criminal conspiracy, cheating, criminal breach of trust, criminal misconduct and falsification of documents. In his complaint, the deputy general manager said the accused had offices in Sadashivanagar. The company was registered as an export unit involved in the production and export of English herbs with production facilities in Doddaballapur, Srirangapatna and Beluru. “They approached IDBI bank with documents showing that they had availed of a loan from another bank, and requested that the loan be taken over. They submitted documents, including the letter of loan sanction by the previous bank,” said the police. According to the FIR, after considering the documents submitted, the loan was taken over. The accused had requested for a restructure of the sanctioned loan in 2012, but defaulted in payment. The bank termed the loan as an NPA and initiated the recovery process. During the course of verification, however, bank officials found large-scale irregularities and diversions of funds. “They found that the directors had taken a loan from another bank with documents submitted to IDBI, without their knowledge,” said the police. Officials, who have registered a case, suspect the involvement of bank officials in this scam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bank-cheated-in-rs-56-crore-loan/article33262022.ece
06 December 2020||December 06 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||War room will also be vaccination control room||The State’s COVID-19 war room will, henceforth, also function as the vaccination control room. A circular to this effect was issued by the Health Department on Saturday. Since the State needs to be prepared for the process of vaccination and the war room has been at the forefront of compiling COVID-19-related data, it is best suited to take up this task as an additional responsibility, according to the circular. Meanwhile, the State on Saturday reported 1,325 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total number of cases to 8,91,685. With 12 deaths, the toll rose to 11,846. This is apart from 19 deaths of patients due to non-COVID-19 reasons. As many as 1,400 persons were discharged on Saturday, taking the total number of recoveries to 8,54,861. Of the remaining 24,959 active patients, 278 were being monitored in ICUs. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 1.27 %, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) touched 0.90%. Bengaluru Urban reported 709 cases, taking its tally to 3,73,291. With six deaths coming from Bengaluru, the toll in the district rose to 4,176. Active cases in Bengaluru touched 19,185. As many as 1,04,032 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, including 85,665 RT-PCR tests. With this, the total number of tests rose to 1,16,13,924.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/war-room-will-also-be-vaccination-control-room/article33262014.ece
06 December 2020||December 06 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||‘Remove photos of MPs, MLAs, councillors from bus shelters, water units’||The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) is cracking down on photos of MLAs, former civic councillors and leaders of political parties that are making a comeback across bus shelters, water dispensing units and other public places in the city. In a circular issued on December 2, BBMP Commissioner N. Manjunath Prasad said that FIRs may be registered against those responsible under relevant sections of the Karnataka Open Places (Prevention of Disfigurement) Act, 1981. Stringent action may also be initiated against officials who fail to remove such publicity material, the circular stated. Mr. Prasad said that, as per order of the Karnataka High Court, publicity material to create awareness about works and schemes of the Centre, State government and BBMP can only bear photos of the President, Prime Minister, Chief Justice, Union Ministers, Governor, Chief Minister and Ministers, apart from the father of the nation Mahatma Gandhi. Photos of other elected representatives, including MPs, MLAs and councillors, should not be displayed. He directed the zonal joint commissioners to remove the photos of other elected representatives from public places. RTI activist Sai Datta, who filed a public interest petition against advertisement hoardings in the High Court of Karnataka, pointed out that many bus shelters and water dispensing units across the city bear the photos of elected representatives and leaders of political parties. “Though the display of advertisements were banned in the interest of the city’s aesthetics around two years ago, metal structures for hoardings have not been removed. Ironically, there are quite a few around the BBMP head office itself,” he said. Mr. Prasad had earlier claimed that the civic body had removed around 1,800 metal structures. 15 days to remove metal structures Sources said, in a meeting chaired by the civic chief recently, officials were directed to float tenders to remove the metal structures. “Civic officials have been given a deadline of 15 days for the same,” sources added. Mr. Sai Datta claimed that with advertisements being banned under BBMP Outdoor Signage and Public Messaging Policy 2018, wall paintings have started again. “This is also a violation, and the BBMP should act stringently against those indulging in such acts,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/remove-photos-of-mps-mlas-councillors-from-bus-shelters-water-units/article33262008.ece
06 December 2020||December 06 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||51 new cases in DK, Udupi||Dakshina Kannada and Udupi districts on Saturday reported 51 COVID-19 positive cases even as DK had one death. With 33 persons discharged on Saturday, DK had 568 active cases. Udupi had 183 active cases with 27 patients discharged. Till Saturday, Dakshina Kannada administration collected Rs. 16,53,217 fine for not wearing masks while Udupi administration collected Rs. 18,08,750 fine with 16,501 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/51-new-cases-in-dk-udupi/article33262145.ece
06 December 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||NDA confident of a good show in Alappuzha||The BJP-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) seems to be more confident than any other political fronts when it comes to improving their tally this time compared to the 2015 local body elections. Speaking to The Hindu , BJP district president M.V. Gopakumar said he foresees a huge political transformation in the district with the NDA set to gain immensely in the local body polls.  “Alappuzha is known as a CPI(M) bastion. That is about to change. People have started to accept the development agenda of the NDA government at the Centre. There is also a realisation among the voters that there is hardly any difference between the Left Democratic Front (LDF) and United Democratic Front (LDF). Like in other parts of the State, the NDA will make giant strides in the polls in the district,” Mr. Gopakumar said. The BJP president said the NDA would come to power in three municipalities and a number of grama panchayats and block panchayats in the district. “The pain caused by the floods in Kuttanad could have been avoided if the Kuttanad package was implemented properly. But the funds allocated by the Centre were misused. After the floods, a number of announcements have been made in regard to eco restoration and welfare of the people of Kuttanad. But nothing has happened. Same goes to the protection of coastal areas and people living there, the coir sector and so on,’’ he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nda-confident-of-a-good-show-in-alappuzha/article33261567.ece
06 December 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||65-member team for poll at Edamalakkudy||A 65-member team of polling officials will leave for Edamalakkudy, the remotest tribal grama panchayat, from Munnar early on Monday. A police team will be making prior arrangements at the 13 polling stations there. Devikulam Subcollector S. Prem Krishnan on Friday said forest and panchayat officials would help in making preliminary arrangements for the local body elections there. Of the 13 polling stations at Edamalakkudy, Nooradikudy was the remotest one on the border with Tamil Nadu inside the Munnar forest division. Permission had been sought from the Tamil Nadu government to move to Nooradikudy via Valparai. The road to Societykudy had been already repaired and from there officials would move to other polling stations. Wireless The police wireless communication system would be used for communicating from Edamalakudy, sources said.  A police team will be making prior arrangements at the 13 polling stations there||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/65-member-team-for-poll-at-edamalakkudy/article33261557.ece
06 December 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||Supplyco begins paddy procurement in Wayanad||The Kerala State Civil Supplies Corporation (Supplyco) has begun online registration and paddy procurement during the ‘Nanja’ (first crop) season in Wayanad district. “As per the direction of the government, the date for paddy procurement season has been extended and farmers can register their names onwww.supplycopaddy.infor the purpose till December 15,” Rajani Muralidharan, Paddy Marketing Officer, Supplyco regional office, Kozhikode, told The Hindu . About 12,500 to 13,000 tonnes of paddy cultivated on nearly 6,000 hectares of land by 5,300 farmers during the Nanja harvesting season was expected to be procured, said Ms. Muralidharan. The procurement price offered this season is Rs. 27.48. The farmers will get the procurement price from banks on production of the paddy receipt sheet issued by millers who procured the paddy. For details, contact 9446089784 and 9947805083.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/supplyco-begins-paddy-procurement-in-wayanad/article33261505.ece
06 December 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||Issue of poll materials on Wednesday||Election materials for the upcoming civic body polls will be issued at seven centres in the district at 10 a.m. on Wednesday. Election materials for the Kalpetta municipality will be supplied at the SDM Lower Primary School here. The supply of the materials for Mananthavady and Sulthan Bathery Municipalities would be held at the Government Vocational Higher Secondary School, Mananthavady, and Assumption High School, Sulthan Bathery, respectively. The materials for Kalpetta, Mananthavady, Sulthan Bathery, and Panamaram block panchayats will be held at S.K.M.J. High School here; St. Patrick School, Mananthavady; Assumption High School, Sulthan Bathery; and Government Higher Secondary School, Panamaram, respectively. The electronic voting machines will be kept at the centres after the polls and votes will also be counted at those centres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/issue-of-poll-materials-on-wednesday/article33261512.ece
06 December 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||Commissioning of EVMs begins today||The commissioning of the electronic voting machines (EVM) for the upcoming civic polls in the district will be held on Sunday and Monday at the EVM distribution centres. The commissioning of EVMs for the three-tier grama panchayats and municipalities will be held on Sunday and Monday respectively in the presence of candidates or their representatives as per the COVID-19 protocol.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/commissioning-of-evms-begins-today/article33261520.ece
06 December 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Adoption continues undeterred by pandemic||The pandemic seems to have had little bearing on adoption in the district, with 24 children having been adopted till November. This was equal to the total number of adoptions last year. A majority of adopted children were in the 0-to-four age group, and one child was adopted by a single parent from outside the State. The pandemic has, however, forced the District Adoption Committee to shift its meeting to Google Meet. “The window for document verification and meeting between adopting parents and the potential adoptee has been extended from the previous 20 to 30 days in view of the pandemic,” said M.K.P. Hafzeena, protection officer (non-institutional care) District Child Protection Unit. It helped that the Ministry of Women and Child Development had shifted the adoption procedure online long before the pandemic, with applications having to be submitted over the portal of the Central Adoption Resource Authority (CARA). Eight documents Parents interested in adopting children will have to register online with CARA and submit a set of eight documents within 30 days, failing which their registration will be cancelled so as their all-India seniority that kicks in with the registration. Eligibility “In Kerala, adopting parents should have an annual income of not less Rs. 2.50 lakh, while the State has also set police clearance certificate as an additional eligibility criterion,” said Ms. Hafzeena. Orphaned-abandoned-surrendered (OAS) category children are available for adoption, subject to clearance from the Child Welfare Committees (CWC) concerned. Surrendered children “In Ernakulam and in the State in general, children surrendered by their biological parents more or less constitute the entire adoptions. Previously, such parents had only a 60-day window for revoking their decision to surrender. But now, they can get it revoked through a family court even after that, in which case the adoption, even if approved by then, stands cancelled,” said Ms. Hafzeena. Age criteria In the case of orphaned and abandoned children, the CWCs concerned declare them legally free for adoption after none claims them within a specific period after publishing their photos in the media and the police submit a report to that effect. Parents with a composite age of up to 90 years can adopt children in the 0-to-4 age group, whereas those with a combined age of between 90 and 100 years and 100 and 110 years are eligible to adopt children in the age group of four to eight and eight to 18 years respectively. Single parents “Children in the similar age group are available for adoption to single parents aged 45, 50, and 55 respectively. While single mothers can adopt both boys and girls, single fathers can adopt only boys,” Ms. Hafzeena said.  In the case of orphaned and abandoned children, the CWCs declare them legally free for adoption after none claims them within a specific period after publishing their photos in the media and the police submit a report||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/adoption-continues-undeterred-by-pandemic/article33262121.ece
06 December 2020||Kochi,KERALA||New support price system to the aid of banana farmers||Banana farmers in Ernakulam district are among the first to enjoy the fruit of the newly-introduced support price system in which the government will compensate them for the gap between support and market prices. The price of 1 kg of the ‘nendran’ variety has come down to between Rs. 15 and Rs. 20, said a senior official of the Department of Agriculture. This implies that after the new support price system came into effect on November 1, farmers selling their produce get some help from the government. The support price of the nendran variety is Rs. 30 a kg. The official said the scheme worked in a specific way—the farmer registered with the Department of Agriculture will be compensated if the price of the notified 16 items falls below the support price. When the produce is sold, the registered farmer will get the market price. But then, the gap between the support price and the market price will be remitted to the farmer’s account once the details are submitted. That is, if nendran banana is sold at Rs. 20 a kg, the remaining Rs. 10 per kg will be given to the farmer once he uploads his details on the specified website. The process is under way at Keerampara and Pothanikkad in Kothamangalam block. Large-scale sale of banana is witnessed in farmers’ markets in both places with large areas under nendran banana cultivation. The official said the government had notified support price for 16 items, including tapioca, tomato, and potato. K.V. George, a farmer at Vazhakkulam, said the support price was welcome. Given the current market situation, it will be a compensation for farmers who follow the conventional method of cultivation using fertilisers. However, he added organic produce should get better price, and that there was already a niche market for it. Mr. George said he had been growing around 400 banana plants annually on an experimental basis over the last three years. The organic cultivation method has been satisfactory, he added. Meanwhile, the Agriculture Department official said 422 farmers had registered under the scheme in Kothamangalam block.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-support-price-system-to-the-aid-of-banana-farmers/article33262113.ece
06 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||e-DROP helps post 5 lakh poll officials||The deployment of a technically spruced up web-based solution, e-DROP, developed by the National Informatics Centre (NIC) has helped the State Election Commission (SEC) draft in nearly five lakh polling officials from across 50,000 institutions across the State in just a week. Developed by the Thrissur unit of the NIC in 2010, e-DROP was later adopted by the SEC and scaled up for the local body elections five years later. The NIC, under the guidance of State Informatics Officer Mohandas T., further fine-tuned the system for seamless operation, to overcome the challenges posed by COVID-19. “We decentralised the system with separate logins for institutional heads, local bodies, collectorates, and the SEC. Institutional heads entered the data of their employees directly into the system. It also enabled the automatic exemption of categories such as seriously ill and lactating mothers who are spared from election duty,” said Suresh K, senior technical director, NIC, Thrissur. Hosted in the government’s State Data Centre, it has been integrated with the SMS gateway, facilitating automated generation of messages to employees about their postings. It also eliminates data tampering at any point. e-DROP enables the district election officer to randomise the whole data and presiding officers and polling officers are automatically decided based on their designation. “The first round of randomisation, assigning officials the local bodies, was held on November 26, based on which over 2 lakh posting orders were generated. The second round, assigning the polling booth, will be held two days before the polls,” said Mr. Suresh. As and when randomisation is completed employees can download their posting order from edrop.gov.in. The system also captures character of the polling station, like whether it is sensitive, remote, forest, linguistics, women-friendly, etc. Significantly, the entire data are open to public access on the Internet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/e-drop-helps-post-5-lakh-poll-officials/article33261508.ece
06 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Navy officers visit old age home, orphanage||As part of Navy Week celebrations of the Southern Naval Command, personnel of INS Dronacharya and Naval Wives’ Welfare Association (NWWA) of Fort Kochi, visited the inmates of “Good Hope” old age home and the children of “Ashwasa Bhawan” orphanage on Saturday. Gifts given The Commanding Officer, Commodore S.K. Roy and NWWA members participated in the interactive session and handed over gifts in keeping with the COVID-19 protocol. The old age home and Ashwasa Bhawan were presented with various utility items. They were also provided medical aid items such as airbed and food supplements along with provision of utilities. Other services rendered by the Navy included repair of playing equipment, study tables for children, cleaning and painting of common areas, the periphery wall and main gate. Refurbishment of the garden, provisioning of the shed and repair to the drainage system, flooring of rooms were also undertaken.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/navy-officers-visit-old-age-home-orphanage/article33262116.ece
06 December 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Officials facilitate voting by COVID patients||Fighting anxiety, polling officials in PPE kits are facilitating voting in local body polls by COVID-19 patients and those under observation for the disease in Ernakulam district. Special postal voting is made available for the 3,622 patients and 5,739 in quarantine — 9,361 in all — figuring on the preliminary list of certified voters eligible to cast special postal voting. The list will be updated till 3 p.m. on December 9, the penultimate day of polling. Officials, comprising a polling officer and a polling assistant, who are facilitating voting take all precautions and arrive wearing PPE kits. Safe distance is maintained from the voter, who should wear a mask and hand over the ballot after sanitising their hands. The officials change their hand gloves before approaching each voter and travel in a double-chamber vehicle. Used PPE kits are disposed of with the help of the local primary health centre. Separate envelops are maintained for depositing the ballot and the required documents. Postal votes, handed over to Returning Officers, are kept in specially prepared boxes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/officials-facilitate-voting-by-covid-patients/article33262119.ece
06 December 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Job aspirants duped of over Rs. 50 lakh||The job visa fraud accused arrested by the Central police is suspected to have duped nearly 30 job aspirants of over Rs. 50 lakh within two police station limits alone in the last couple of years. Shihab, 29, of Sulthan Bathery, was arrested on Friday after a 10-month-long hunt. The Central police alone have registered nine cases based on petitions by more than double that number of victims who were collectively cheated of around Rs. 25 lakh. The North station registered another three cases after nine victims complained of loss of around Rs. 30 lakh. “To our knowledge, he has cases against him at Ollur in Thrissur and in Sulthan Bathery. We expect more complaints,” said S. Vijayasankar, Inspector, Central police. The police said that the accused had allegedly switched to illegal operations, offering job visas in European and Scandinavian countries in 2018 after having set up a firm in Kochi that provided student visas and other education-related services back in 2015. He ran branches in Kochi, Thrissur, and Wayanad which were eventually shut down. Shihab allegedly chose countries that offered lucrative wages and then dangled the carrot of job visas in countries like Denmark, Norway, and Canada, to lure in potential victims. “While in most cases, those visas never materialised despite candidates making payments, in a couple of instances, those who had gone to the destinations had to return after encountering hardships,” Mr. Vijayasankar said. It has emerged that the suspect did not have the requisite licence to run a business offering jobs abroad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/job-aspirants-duped-of-over-rs-50-lakh/article33262125.ece
06 December 2020||Kochi,KERALA||High-stakes battle in Ernakulam||An intense electoral battle seems emerging among the United Democratic Front (UDF) and the Left Democratic Front (LDF) in the race for the Ernakulam District Panchayat. Stakes are high for the UDF, as it eyes a hat-trick, while the Left front is pulling all the stops to wrest control of the district panchayat. The National Democratic Alliance (NDA), which is yet to open its account, remains hopeful of making dents in the prospects of its rival fronts. The UDF had won the district panchayat with a comfortable margin of 16 seats in the 27-member council in 2015. The LDF had to sit in the Opposition benches, as it could bag only 11 seats. However, its strength had gone up to 13 at the end of the term of the outgoing council. From 11, the seat position went up to 12 after the Kerala High Court annulled the victory of a Congress candidate. The entry of the Kerala Congress (M) to the LDF saw the additional support of one member at the fag end of the council. The UDF camp recalled that it always had an upper hand in the district panchayat while pointing to the success in two consecutive elections. Its poll managers have claimed that the United Democratic will earn 20 seats. But the LDF is counting on the anti-incumbency factor and continues to blame the UDF for not being able to ensure development despite being in power for two successive terms. The front has pinned high hopes on making inroads into the traditional Congress strongholds. Left claims While the Left claims that the presence of the Kerala Congress (M) will benefit the front, the UDF has ruled out any such advantage, citing the strength of their alliance partner, Kerala Congress (Joseph), in some seats. The BJP has exuded confidence of increasing its vote share, hoping that people have been tired of supporting the LDF and the UDF. The key fronts are also facing considerable opposition from Twenty20, the corporate-backed apolitical charity outfit, in divisions that include Vengola and Kolenchery. Cong in 17 seats The Congress is contesting in 17 seats, while the CPI(M) has fielded its candidates in 17 and divided the rest among alliance partners.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/battle-of-high-stakes-in-district-panchayat/article33262122.ece
06 December 2020||Kochi,KERALA||No bribe paid: Eapen||Unitach managing director Santosh Eapen has said he might have paid business-related commission, but has never bribed anyone in connection with the Wadakkanchery LIFE Mission project. He was talking to mediapersons here on Saturday when he arrived at the Customs office in connection with a case in which an official of the UAE consulate in the capital allegedly smuggled out foreign currency without routine inspection at the airport. The amount in question was given as commission, just as commission is given (to a real estate agent) who helped a person to take a house on rent. “I came to the Customs office although I did not get any official notice to appear before it. I have not been questioned so far,” he said. Mr. Eapen had been questioned earlier in connection with the case. In October, the Enforcement Directorate had questioned him along with U.V. Jose, Chief Executive Officer, LIFE Mission, to verify whether unaccounted money was involved in the project.  The Unitach managing director says he may have paid business-related commission||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-bribe-paid-eapen/article33261571.ece
06 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Case a politically motivated one, says Ebrahim Kunju||Former Public Works (PWD) Minister V.K. Ebrahim Kunju, now in judicial custody in connection with the Palarivattom flyover corruption case, has filed a bail petition before the High Court. He said in his bail petition on Saturday that his arrest was a politically motivated one. The immediate trigger for his arrest was the local body elections and the recent onslaught on the State government launched by Opposition parties, including the Indian Union Muslim League. The allegation that he had illegally sanctioned an amount of Rs. 8,25,59,768 as mobilisation advance was false. In fact, he had only formally approved the sanction of the advance amount when it was brought before him, after recommendation by two IAS officers and routed through proper channel in the Secretariat. The investigating officer could not find any reliable materials against him, he said. He was suffering from multiple myeloma with renal failure and had been undergoing treatment at a hospital in Ernakulam since April 2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/case-a-politically-motivated-one-says-ebrahim-kunju/article33261572.ece
06 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Officers complete afloat training||A total of 132 trainee officers, including 114 from the Navy, 13 from the Coast Guard and five foreign trainees (from Myanmar (2), the Maldives, Seychelles, and Tanzania), completed their afloat training on board ships of the First Training Squadron of the Navy on Saturday. Rear Admiral Antony George, Chief Staff Officer (Training), Southern Naval Command, awarded trophies to meritorious officer trainees during a passing-out parade on board the ships. They will now join frontline Indian Naval warships and Coast Guard patrol vessels on the western and eastern sea board for next phase of afloat training.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/officers-complete-afloat-training/article33262114.ece
06 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Ernakulam keeps down test positivity rate at 5.97%||Ernakulam with a COVID-19 test positivity rate of 5.97% has been efficient in its pandemic control measures, according to a communication from the district information office. The overall test positivity rate in the State is 9.95%. Only Kasaragod has a test positivity rate that is less than that of Ernakulam. District Collector S. Suhas attributed the low test positivity rate to the joint effort of various departments in containing the pandemic. Ernakulam tops in the number of tests held and 93.6% of the targeted tests could be held. Mr. Suhas said that the district, with most number of aged people, had done well in measures like reverse quarantine. A total of 5,009 people in the 146 old age homes in Ernakulam were tested for the infection. The fight, he said, was being jointly led by the government and the private sector. While government hospitals had 160 ICU beds and 159 ventilators, private hospitals had 1,250 ICU beds and 338 ventilators, he said. Ernakulam on Saturday recorded 665 fresh cases and 492 recoveries. Six health workers also contracted the infection. Of the new patients, 147 infections could not be traced to a source. Payipra recorded 31 cases, Vazahkkulam 23, Okkal 21 and Thripunithura 19. While 1,347 people were brought under disease surveillance, taking the total to 28,292, the total number of patients in the district stood at 8,146.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ernakulam-keeps-down-test-positivity-rate-at-597/article33262117.ece
06 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Woman suffers serious injuries in fall||In a bizarre turn of event, an injured woman was found atop the portico of an apartment complex near Marine Drive on Saturday morning. The woman, seemingly in her 50s, identified as Kumari from Salem in Tamil Nadu, was working as a domestic help in one of the houses in the six-floor apartment complex. She had sustained serious injuries incurred in a fall during what seems to be an adventurous attempt to scale down using two saris tied together from the balcony alongside the kitchen gone horribly wrong. Though she is suspected to have fallen sometime around 5 a.m., she was found only over three hours later by residents. Fire and rescue personnel rushed her to the General Hospital from there she was referred to a private hospital where she remains admitted in the ICU in a critical state. The police said she used to sleep in the kitchen and the family that engaged her found the door to the kitchen locked with no response from inside in the morning. “The sari could have helped her land on the portico safely but she probably lost the grip on it along the way. The reason behind her attempt could be gauged only if we get to speak to her,” said K. Laljy, Assistant Commissioner, Ernakulam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/woman-suffers-serious-injuries-in-fall/article33262126.ece
06 December 2020||Kochi,KERALA||3,500 police personnel for election duty||The Ernakulam Rural Police will deploy 3,500 personnel for maintenance of law and order during the local body polls. Besides, another 632 special officers will be deployed. The Rural police are also deploying 430 personnel in districts. District Police Chief (Ernakulam Rural) K. Karthik on Friday held a virtual briefing through a dedicated platform from his headquarters as part of equipping the personnel for election duty. Arrangements have been made at police stations and special units to watch live feeds. The Ernakulam Rural Police limits have been split into six election sub-divisions. A cluster of 15 polling booths will be covered by a group patrol team and two law and order patrol teams to be deployed at the police station-level. Probe teams The patrol vehicles will be fitted with recording devices. Sub-division-level investigation teams will be deployed to probe cases pertaining to elections. In the run-up to the elections, vehicle checking will be intensified against the potential transportation of arms, liquor, and explosives. Masks and sanitisers will be mandatory in polling booths. Mr. Karthik said that the right to cast vote should be exercised strictly in compliance with physical distancing norms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rural-police-to-deploy-3500-personnel-for-poll-duty/article33262124.ece
06 December 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||UDF confident of an upper hand in Kollam||The Left Democratic Front (LDF) government drawing flak for back-to-back scandals and scams has generated an extremely favourable political climate for the United Democratic Front (UDF) and it is looking forward to gain an upper hand in the forthcoming polls, District Congress Committee (DCC) president Bindu Krishna has said. “With a governance that failed on all fronts, the voters of Kollam have been paying the price of giving the LDF a brute majority in the last local body elections. At this phase of the campaign, we can sense a powerful wave in favour of the UDF and this time the front will come to power with a huge majority,” she told The Hindu . The DCC president said that corruption and lacklustre performance of the previous local bodies were the major reasons for the trend. “Be it COVID-19 containment or free rations, the people had to face disappointment due to the faulty policies of the LDF government. Also, the public is now aware of the corruption plaguing the LDF since there has been a string of charges during the last few days. Even LDF’s Mayor candidate is facing corruption charges,” she said. Ms. Krishna said development projects were nothing but an eyewash. “Can you name one single project that is worth celebrating? The cashew sector is in dire straits and five processors have committed suicide during the last few years. In their frenzy to ensure publicity, the LDF failed to deliver,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/udf-confident-of-an-upper-hand-in-kollam/article33261564.ece
06 December 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||COVID-19 awareness song brought out||The Health Department has brought out ‘Karuthalode Kollam’, a COVID-19 awareness song in connection with local body polls. District Medical Officer R.Sreelatha released the song by handing over a CD to mass media officer Dileep Khan. District surveillance officer R.Sandhya, Deputy DMO J.Manikandan and other officials from the department also attended the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/covid-19-awareness-song-brought-out/article33261568.ece
06 December 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||BDJS leadership camp||General secretary Subhash Vasu inaugurated Bharat Dharma Jana Sena (BDJS) Kollam district leadership camp on Saturday at the Sopanam auditorium. District president Girija Manohar presided over the function while State president Sathish Babu delivered the keynote address.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bdjs-leadership-camp/article33261569.ece
06 December 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Surge in Kottayam with 567 cases||The number of new COVID-19 cases continued to rise at a rapid rate in Kottayam with 567 people testing positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Saturday. With 588 recoveries during the day, the district has 4,960 active cases while 11,412 persons are under observation. Kollam reported 405 new cases, one death, and 410 recoveries on Saturday. While 400 patients contracted the infection through contact, others include two cases with no known source, one NRI, and two health workers. The Health Department also confirmed that the death of a 46-year-old Poruvazhi resident is due to COVID-19. At present, the number of active cases in Kollam is 3,643. Alappuzha logged 365 cases and 551 recoveries on Saturday. Of the new cases, 338 patients contracted the virus through local transmission, while the source of infection of another 27 people remains unknown. The active cases in the district stands at 4,437. As many as 208 tested positive in Pathanamthitta on Saturday. Of the new cases, 190 people contracted the virus through local contact. Meanwhile, one more patient died in the district, taking the overall COVID-19 toll to 129. With 189 recoveries during the day, the district has 2,254 active cases.  (With inputs from Kollam, Alappuzha, and Pathanamthitta bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/surge-in-kottayam-with-567-cases/article33261559.ece
06 December 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Tough contest likely for Kozhikode Corporation||The battle for Kozhikode Corporation, ever since it was formed, has been rather one sided. Except for a few times, like when the United Democratic Front (UDF) put up a firm fight and managed to win almost half of the 75 seats in 2010, the erstwhile seat of the Zamorins have been a Left bastion for nearly half a century. Though the Left Democratic Front (LDF) expects to retain its fort in the forthcoming local body polls too, it seems to be in a tight spot with its government at the State level being dragged into several controversies recently. However, the focus of the front in the corporation will be to highlight its development projects such as the modernisation of several city roads, street light LED conversion project, rehabilitation of slum residents and the escalator overbridge. Besides, the hygiene status and other honours in the sanitation field will also be highlighted. Highlighting failures On the other hand, the UDF is vying for a repeat of 2010 or better, highlighting failures of the LDF-led corporation council over the years. “The LDF manifesto that was released recently is a repetition of what they have been promising for the past 45 years. The council has not been able to even complete several projects they have undertaken. Besides, there is a lot of corruption involved in each of them,” alleged P.M. Niyas, KPCC general secretary, who was part of the previous council. Presence of NDA Meanwhile, with its increasing presence in the city, the Bharatiya Janata Party-led National Democratic Alliance has stepped up the game to improve its performance from the previous term, when it had a record seven seats in the council. The Mayor position being reserved for women this time, all three fronts have made quite a line up of Mayor candidates, taking into consideration their track record in spheres other than politics. Seasoned contestants have taken a back seat this time, with all the fronts fielding many new faces, especially youngsters, in the corporation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tough-contest-likely-for-kozhikode-corporation/article33261521.ece
06 December 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Row over faculty recruitment in CU||The ongoing process to recruit faculty members for various departments of the Calicut University is facing political and legal challenges. The university authorities had begun steps to recruit 24 professors, 29 associate professors, and 63 assistant professors for various departments earlier this year. A section of teachers and activists had opposed issuing of the notification without specifying reservation categories of the posts then itself. The process, however, had to be stopped in the wake of the pandemic-induced lockdown and other restrictions. It was resumed after the restrictions were lifted. Agitation path Now, both the Congress and the Indian Union Muslim League and their affiliate organisations are on the agitation path against it. Last week, activists of the Kerala Students Union and the Muslim Students Federation tried to disrupt the interview process being held at the administrative block. United Democratic Front-supported teachers’ and non-teachers’ unions too staged protests on the university campus. It is learnt that they have also approached the Governor, who is the Chancellor of the university, against the recruitment process. Meanwhile, some applicants approached the High Court against the university. One of the petitions found fault with the university authorities for not specifying community-wise reservation categories while issuing the notifications for the recruitment. It was pointed out that the notifications for appointment of faculty posts in other universities had details of the reservation categories. However, the university authorities are claiming that they were complying with an order of the High Court. While cancelling an earlier notification for the appointment of assistant professors, the court had in 2016 pointed out that publishing reservation details at the time of notification was illegal. The authorities are claiming that the details will be published at the time of appointment. The candidates shall be recruited as the per the roster following the Kerala State and Subordinate Services Rules, 1958. The petitioners have now sought lifting of the 2016 verdict. Another petition filed in the High Court accused the university of not clearing the backlog posts before starting the recruitment process. According to sources, of the 63 posts of assistant professors, there were 29 backlog posts in various reservation categories while four other posts belong to the differently abled quota. It is learnt that the university is contending that a Syndicate sub-committee had decided against filling the backlog posts. Second petition The second petition challenges this decision. The university has also been accused of violating an assurance given to the court that interviews would not be held for the time being. Hearing on both the cases was held last week and it is again expected to come up on December 8.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/faculty-recruitment-in-calicut-varsity-facing-twin-challenges/article33261513.ece
06 December 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Parties bitten by urban electorate bug||Mainstream political parties have been ostensibly bitten by the urban electorate bug, especially in the six Corporations, in the upcoming local body polls in Kerala. The no-holds-barred campaigning in the cities indicates that the elections are doubly prestigious for all parties — be it the Communist Party of India (Marxist), Congress, and the Bharatiya Janata Party which are leading the three major fronts. Apart from political preferences, poll managers are trying to gauge the undercurrents, if any, including that of a communal polarisation in a three-cornered contest. Two factors The glaring difference in voter turnout between the rural and urban electorate (turnout more in rural areas) in the past elections has given the impression of candidates going full throttle in the Corporation divisions. Also, there is the unfolding COVID-19 situation in the State. In Thiruvananthapuram, the Left Democratic Front (LDF), which is striving to retain power, is combating the BJP, which finished second with 34 seats in the 100-member council last time. The LDF had 42 seats while the Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) got 21 seats. The rest were Independents. V4 Kochi The UDF appears to be riding tall in the saddle in Kochi despite drawing flak for its failure in governance and municipal services. The coalition has been in power for a decade after dislodging the CPI(M) that ruled the Corporation for 32 years continuously. In 2015, the UDF won 38 seats in the 74-member council. The LDF had 23 councillors, the BJP two, and Independents 11. However, the UDF and the LDF, apart from facing rebel menace, have to confront a new organisation, V4 Kochi, quietly making inroads into the urban electorate. Notwithstanding the realignment of political forces on different occasions, Left parties have been in power in the Kozhikode Corporation for nearly four decades. Their leaders believe that the electorate favours them even if the Congress-Indian Union Muslim League combine is throwing a bigger scare this time or the BJP heightening its electioneering. In the previous polls, the LDF had 47 seats, UDF 20, and the BJP seven. Voter apathy The Corporations of Thrissur and Kollam, formed in 2000, and Kannur (formed in 2015) are also not immune to voter apathy. Politically, the LDF has an upper hand in the 55-member Kollam Corporation whereas a neck-and-neck contest is on the cards in Thrissur, also having 55 divisions. The picture is hazy in Kannur though the UDF traditionally has an edge. However, the performance of the BJP in the urban pockets will certainly impact both fronts, as also the turnout of neutral urban voters to exercise their franchise.  Apart from political preferences, poll managers are trying to gauge the undercurrents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/parties-bitten-by-urban-electorate-bug/article33261500.ece
06 December 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Independents’ performance may decide fate of Koduvally municipality||It goes without saying that the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) determines the fate of any election in Koduvally, which once had the highest number of gold jewellery outlets per sq. km. Of late, those who left that party during various periods too are playing a major role in its politics. The upcoming polls to the local municipality, the only one held by the United Democratic Front (UDF) in Kozhikode district, is no different. Major players other than the IUML are the followers of P.T.A. Raheem, Kunnamangalam MLA and former IUML strongman, who recently merged his party National Secular Conference with the Indian National League, which is another breakaway group of the IUML. The INL is part of the Left Democratic Front (LDF). What makes the contest this time interesting is the presence of a number of Independents, supported both by the ruling UDF and the LDF. They include Karat Faisal, who has been accused of being part of gold smuggling. Though Mr. Faisal was earlier proposed as an LDF Independent candidate from the Chundappuram division, the CPI(M) district committee later dropped the idea in the wake of the gold smuggling controversy. It has been alleged that though the LDF has fielded O.P. Rasheed from here, a majority of LDF workers were campaigning for Mr. Faisal. In Panakkode Another curious fight is happening in Panakkode division, where deputy chairperson of the outgoing council A.P. Majeed, who faced disciplinary action from the IUML, is contesting as an Independent. It is learnt that the UDF has thrown its weight behind Mr. Majeed. In another division, the UDF is reportedly supporting a Welfare Party of India candidate to counter a CPI(M) candidate. In Vavad Centre In Vavad Centre division, the UDF has fielded K. Sivadasan, whose membership was cancelled by thState Election Commission last time. Mr. Sivadasan later managed to get a court order in his favour. According to sources, there are at least 11 such wards where similarly interesting fights are happening. The presence of namesake candidates is also worrying both the fronts. In the outgoing council, the UDF had 19 members, the LDF 16 and one division was held by an Independent. This is only the second election to the municipality, which was a grama panchayat till 2015. Asked about their major achievements, Mr. Majeed said that the council could complete around 1,000 houses for the homeless under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana. As many as 6,000 LED street lights were installed and 298 rural roads repaired. “During the initial days of the COVID-19 outbreak, we were the first to implement a free quarantine facility for Gulf returnees. We also proposed schemes to help those who lost jobs due to the pandemic,” said Mr. Majeed. However, LDF leaders said they were not taking any chances and were confident of putting up a tough fight to capture power.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/independents-performance-may-decide-fate-of-koduvally-municipality/article33261509.ece
06 December 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Special arrangements for voting by COVID-19 patients||Elaborate arrangements are in place to prepare a list of voters, who are suffering from COVID-19, and make it available with the returning officers concerned to facilitate their voting in Kozhikode district on December 14. The list will be updated at 3 p.m. every day with newly reported cases and those put under quarantine. Such special voters, who are identified before 3 p.m. on the day prior to voting, will be allowed to use postal ballot service. Special polling teams will visit these voters wearing personal protective equipment to complete the voting. The voters will also have to sign an application and self-declaration before using the postal ballot. Those tested positive for the virus after the specified time will be allowed to cast their votes at the allotted polling booths. PPE kits will be mandatory for these voters who will be permitted to enter the booth after 5 p.m. The polling booths will be arranged in such a way to facilitate the voting of voters who report at the specified booths within 6 p.m. According to the district election authorities, PPE kits will be given to polling staff to greet these voters after 5 p.m. Polling agents will also have to comply with the safety protocol at the spot and wear the safety outfits. The presence of Health department staff will also be ensured to monitor the situation. Though the average number of COVID-19 cases is around 500 a day now, the eligible number of voters in this group is a manageable figure according to the election authorities. However, the increasing number of people under quarantine is seemingly a concern for the authorities to make ward-level arrangements. There will be a specially trained team to take care of the voters added to the updated list of COVID-19 patients on the day of polling. Ward-level arrangements will be made to ensure their safe transportation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/special-arrangements-for-voting-by-covid-19-patients/article33261518.ece
06 December 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||688 more test positive in Kozhikode, 460 recover||As many as 688 people were reported to have contracted SARS-CoV-2 infection in Kozhikode district on Saturday. A release said that there were 650 cases of locally acquired infections and the source was unknown in 28 cases. Kozhikode Corporation alone had 99 cases of local transmission, Feroke 32, Kakkodi 27, Chorod 25, Maniyoor 24, and Kunnamangalam, Kizhakkoth, and Olavanna 22 each. As many as 460 people recovered from the infection. A total of 5,584 samples were sent for lab tests on Saturday. There are 6,598 active cases from the district, and 4,340 of the infected are in home isolation. In Wayanad A total of 259 people, including five health workers, tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Wayanad district on Saturday, taking the total number of active cases to 1,722. All the patients were infected through local contacts. As many as 148 people recovered on the day. The district has so far reported 11,847 COVID-19 cases, while 10,050 people have recovered. As many as 9,915 persons are under observation. In Malappuram Malappuram district registered 920 new COVID-19 cases and 1,023 recoveries on Saturday. When 880 of the new cases contracted the disease through direct contact with infected persons, the source of infection could not be traced in 31 cases. Among the new cases were three health workers and six persons who came from across the borders. District officials said that 7,578 people were currently under treatment for COVID-19 across Malappuram. When 557 of them were in COVID-19 hospitals, 327 were in first line treatment centres and 277 in second line treatment centres. Nearly 88,000 people were quarantined across Malappuram. As many as 369 people succumbed to COVID-19 when 68,496 people recovered from the disease in Malappuram since March.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/688-more-test-positive-in-kozhikode-460-recover/article33261516.ece
06 December 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Facilities for differently abled voters||Efforts are in full swing to prepare a final list of differently abled voters in various local body wards and make arrangements for them at polling stations. The entry of such voters will be facilitated quickly without them having to wait in queues. Like in the past, there will be ramps in front of all the select polling booths for ensuring barrier-free entry and exit. Their vehicles will also be permitted to enter polling stations. As usual, the support of Student Police Cadets will be ensured in all polling booths to assist them. Furniture items inside polling booths will be placed in such a way to ensure barrier-free movement. Apart from the Student Police Cadets, the differently abled will be allowed to seek the help of close relatives or volunteers at polling booths. The same service will be made available for senior citizens too. According to the district election authorities, there will be a nodal officer as well for taking care of such voters. Ramps and wheelchairs will be arranged with the support of sponsors and youth organisations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/facilities-for-differently-abled-voters/article33261522.ece
06 December 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||IIM-K to hold online doctoral symposium||The Indian Institute of Management, Kozhikode (IIM-K) is organising its first virtual doctoral symposium from December 9 to 11. A release said on Saturday that the meet-up aimed to provide a glimpse of the research and development in management, as well as offer guidance on tackling problems related to research. It will also provide feedback for future researchers and their career directions. Academic luminaries from University of New York, University of Utah, University of Sussex Business School, University of Texas at Dallas, Texas A&M University, and Australian National University will be the keynote speakers. The meet will feature around 50 papers presented by doctoral students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/iim-k-to-hold-online-doctoral-symposium/article33261501.ece
06 December 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Call to remove vessels from Kadalundi estuary||The Malabar Natural History Society has urged J. Mercykutty Amma, Minister for Fisheries, to evacuate all the fishing vessels from the area to restore the pristine environment of the Kadalundi-Vallikunnu Community Reserve. In a memorandum addressed to the Minister, the society said that removing the vessels from Kadalundi estuarine was very much essential for the conservation of the estuarine biodiversity, birdlife and the general ecology of the area. The Kadalundi-Vallikunnu Community Reserve, established in 2007, is the only community reserve in Kerala, and is well known for the conservation of migratory birds, it said. The lush green mangrove patches in the estuary and the mudflats exposed during the low tides provide potential foraging ground for several hundred wintering shorebirds, gulls, and terns as well as resident waterfowls. In the recent past, the pristine estuarine areas of the reserve were used for unauthorised landing for a large number of fishing vessels. Even though the authorised fish landing centres are located nearby at Chaliyam, Beypore, Parappanangadi, and Thanur, many of them are finding this place as permanent fish landing centre, though Kadalundy estuarine area is not an authorised fish landing centre for marine fishing vessels. Oil spill The waste and the oil spills generated from the fishing boats have already affected the growth of the mangroves and the bird life of the area. Even at the peak of the migratory season (September to March), birds and other life forms are very few in this mudflat this year due to pollution and disturbances by the unauthorised landing of a large number of fishing vessels, the society said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/call-to-remove-vessels-from-kadalundi-estuary/article33261511.ece
06 December 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Police auction unclaimed vehicles||The Mukkom police have auctioned off about 100 unclaimed vehicles, which were earlier impounded in connection with various cases. Officials said efforts were on to dispose of 200 more such vehicles as part of the attempts to free up space in the station compound and start the construction of a multi-storey building. The rusty vehicles, which were dumped in a three-acre station compound, were prepared ready for auctioning after a three-day effort by the policemen. An Ottappalam native bought it through the bulk auctioning procedure held at the office of the District Police Chief (Kozhikode rural).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/police-auction-unclaimed-vehicles/article33261519.ece
06 December 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Palakkad’s development hampered by govt.: BJP||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) here on Saturday blamed it on the State government for hampering the development of Palakkad municipality. “The Left Democratic Front (LDF) government did a lot of harm for the people of Palakkad by blocking our development projects. They (the government) even tried to hurt Palakkad municipality by delaying the release of the funds given by the Central government,” said BJP district president E. Krishnadas, State general secretary C. Krishnakumar, and outgoing municipal chairperson Prameela Sasidharan. “We have survived all attempts by the LDF government to strangulate this municipality, the only civic body ruled by the BJP in the State,” said Mr. Krishnakumar. “The CPI(M) has punished the people of Palakkad because they did not favour that party.” They said the BJP could give Palakkad municipality a chairperson and vice chairperson for a full five-year term in spite of being in minority. “It is an achievement, especially, as there never was a full time civic body head in the last 36 years in Palakkad. This municipality had become a scapegoat of the Congress’s internal fights,” they said. The BJP released an eight-page pamphlet describing the development activities carried out by the municipality in the last five years in Palakkad.  BJP has released a pamphlet describing the development activities in the municipality||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/palakkads-development-hampered-by-govt-bjp/article33262185.ece
06 December 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||RBC a force to reckon with in Vadakarapathy||Vadakarapathy grama panchayat in the eastern part of Palakkad district bordering Tamil Nadu has a unique front in the fray apart from the United Democratic Front (UDF), Left Democratic Front (LDF), and the BJP. The front named Right Bank Canal (RBC), formed five years ago in the name of water, is a force to reckon with in Vadakarapathy, much of which falls in the rain-shadow region of Palakkad. The RBC is fighting the local body election for the second time, after having ruled the panchayat with the LDF support. Although the political relations have changed over the last five years, the RBC still remains a strong force in Vadakarapathy. RBC leaders realised the people’s mindset for the first time in the 2014 Lok Sabha election when the voters cast 10,606 votes for NOTA (none of the above) in response to their call. In the last panchayat election, the RBC won seven out of the 17 wards and clinched the local body administration with the help of the LDF, thus bringing an end to the long years of the UDF rule in Vadakarapathy. RBC’s Kolandai Theresa became president and CPI(M)’s A.P. Anil Kumar, vice president. The front was formed for the fulfilment of a long cherished dream of Vadakarapathy’s farming community to extend the Right Bank Canal (RBC) from Moolathara to Velanthavalam. The canal extension has been viewed as a way out to address the water scarcity in the region. In the 2016 Assembly election, Minister for Water Resources K. Krishnankutty, who contested from Chittur, won the support of the RBC on the promise of the canal extension. Mr. Krishnankutty’s assurance was to bring the RBC to Velanthavalam by crossing the Korayar and the Varattayar. The RBC supported the UDF in the last Lok Sabha election. Although the RBC has ended hobnobbing with the CPI(M), it continues its cordial relations with the Janata Dal, an LDF constituent. The RBC is contesting in 10 of the 17 seats. It has no candidates in the five seats where the Janata Dal is contesting. When the UDF and the BJP have candidates in all seats, the CPI(M) has candidates in nine seats, including two under independent banner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rbc-a-force-to-reckon-with-in-vadakarapathy/article33262183.ece
06 December 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||399 cases in Palakkad||Palakkad district recorded 399 new COVID-19 cases and 405 recoveries on Saturday. When 198 of the new cases got the disease through direct contact with infected persons, there were 193 cases without an identifiable source of infection. Among the new cases were four health workers and four persons who came from across the borders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/399-cases-in-palakkad/article33262184.ece
06 December 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||LDF banks on projects in Pathanamthitta||Riding on the back of a slew of development and welfare measures rolled out by the State government, the Left Democratic Front hopes to score an impressive victory in the three-tier local body elections in Pathanamthitta, says CPI(M) district secretary K.P. Udayabhanu. “Pathanamthitta is not a United Democratic Front bastion as is widely regarded. All the five MLAs from the district belong to the LDF. We also governed 25 panchayats, two of the four municipalities, and five block panchayats in the previous term. Given the current momentum, we will win a majority of the local bodies, including the Pathanamthitta district panchayat, by a huge margin,” he said. According to him, the State government had initiated developmental works worth Rs. 5,000 crore in Pathanamthitta alone. This is in addition to the upgrade of health centres and district hospitals, besides construction of a government medical college at Konni . Roads, bridges “Work on the Muvattupuzha-Punalur road has reached its final stage in the district while four bridges have been opened across the Pampa. Works on four more bridges are also under way,” he said. The distribution of free ration kits and the COVID-19 prevention activities, combined with the rescue mission initiated during the 2018 floods, have helped reinforce the confidence of voters in the LDF, said Mr. Udayabhanu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ldf-banks-on-projects-in-pathanamthitta/article33261556.ece
06 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Juggling multiple roles is her forte||It was raining and S. Chitra’s election campaign was held up as a result. Only after a round of campaigning could she return home to deliver dinner to regular customers of her mother’s small catering business. Every day, Ms. Chitra, the Left Democratic Front (LDF)-backed Independent candidate from Fort ward for the city Corporation elections, is up early to help her mother with cooking. She then delivers food to a few nearby houses on her scooter and hits the campaign trail by 7.30 a.m. By 10 a.m. or so, the morning campaign is over and she is back home to buy vegetables, help with the lunch preparations, and delivery, before getting back on the campaign trail. It’s the same schedule at night too, with help from her brothers.  Natural choice The young candidate is pursuing her MBA from the University of Kerala, Karyavattom, after completing her BSc in Biochemistry from there. With her entire family a supporter of the CPI(M) and her experience working with the Students’ Federation of India during undergraduate studies, it was but natural for her to gravitate towards politics. When the Fort ward was reserved for women candidates, Ms. Chitra was asked if she wanted to contest the elections. Her political inclination and experience of being a class representative left her in no doubt that this was what she wanted to do. The other two candidates in the ward are also Independents, one of them a former councillor too. However, Ms. Chitra is confident of her chances here, particularly owing to the local connect. “I was born and brought up here. A majority of the people know my mother because of her business, and my father who was a newspaper agent. There are a lot of personal connections.” Asked how she planned to balance her responsibilities as a councillor if she won, her studies, and supporting her mother in running the catering business, Ms. Chitra is unfazed. “I have been delivering food for long now. It does not take much time and is like a routine. Yet, I did well in studies and even got a scholarship in school. If I win the election, I am sure managing my responsibilities will not be a problem.” Quizzed about her future plans after she completes her MBA, Ms. Chitra says politics is what she wants to pursue and she is confident she will succeed. But if she loses, does she have a plan B. “No, there is no plan B. I have jumped into the fray. Now, there is no looking back. I want to keep moving ahead,” says Ms. Chitra.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/juggling-multiple-roles-is-her-forte/article33262225.ece
06 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||BJP pins its hopes on 2 Corpns.||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) State president K. Surendran believes that an increased acceptance among minorities, particularly Christians, will, among other new factors, power the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) to victory in at least two municipal Corporations. Speaking to The Hindu , Mr. Surendran said Christians share the BJP’s concern about ‘love jihad’ and national security. The Congress has alienated the community by aligning with fundamentalist outfits. Moreover, the Christians have gravitated towards the development and security agenda of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Support base The BJP’s support among the Nair community remains irreversibly strong as ever. The majority of the rank and file of the BJP is Nair Service Society Karayogam members. The Bharath Dharma Jana Sena (BDJS), headed by Sree Narayana Dharma Paripalana (SNDP) Yogam vice president Thushar Vellapally, is an NDA ally. It might not be a strong cadre party. Nevertheless, the BDJS has helped the BJP make inroads into the Ezhava community and undercut the influence of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) among backward class voters. The NDA has the highest number of Other Backward Classes candidates. Mr. Surendran seems sure of a win in Thiruvananthapuram. The people have realised that the CPI(M) is against the development of the international airport. It has back-pedalled on the Centre’s Smart City project. The BJP is also poised for a win in Thrissur. The NDA will increase its seat share in the Kollam, Ernakulam and Kozhikode Corporations significantly. The Rahul Gandhi factor and unprecedented consolidation of minority community votes in favour of the Congress had helped the United Democratic Front (UDF) gain 19 seats in the previous Lok Sabha elections despite the BJP’s Sabarimala campaign. Those circumstances do not exist in 2020. “Instead, there is a palpable pro-Modi sentiment among voters.” Voters believe that only the NDA at the Centre could stand up to the wrongdoings of the Pinarayi Vijayan government. They know that only Central agencies could dismantle the entrenched criminality and corruption in the Chief Minister’s Office and at the top of the CPI(M) leadership. The BJP sees the CPI(M) as the main electoral enemy and not the “weakened” Congress.  Voters believe that only the NDA at the Centre could stand up to the wrongdoings of the Pinarayi govt.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bjp-pins-its-hopes-on-2-corpns/article33261503.ece
06 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Readmit children to care homes, says panel||The Kerala State Commission for Protection of Child Rights has directed the Women and Child Development Department Secretary and the Director to take steps to ensure that children living in child care institutions who had returned home in the wake of the pandemic were readmitted to the same institution in case they were not safe with their family or lacked facilities for online education. The commission was acting on a petition from the Thiruvananthapuram representatives of the Association of Orphanages and Charitable Institutions Kerala seeking its intervention for securing readmission to these institutions of children living in these institutions last year and attending school from there or those admitted at present. The petition comes in the wake of an order of the department director that children living in the institutions who had returned home could be readmitted only after a certificate from the child welfare committee (CWC) concerned. The petitioners had contended that during the pandemic it would not be easy for financially backward parents to travel with their wards for producing them in front of the CWC. It would also lead to delay if the case of each child were to be taken up. Many of these children hailed from financially and socially backward families, especially those living in tribal areas, and had no facilities for attending online classes. The commission comprising member Fr. Philip Parakatt had then sought a report from the department Secretary. In the report, the official had said that religious study institutions had been exempted from the order. Also, if a child had been admitted to an institution on the order of the CWC, then no other order was needed to readmit the child to the same child-care home for the next three years, the report said. Cause for concern The commission observed that though the government stance was that institutionalisation of children was the last resort and the order was issued against that backdrop, it had created apprehension among children, parents, and authorities of the child-care institutions. However, only the CWCs could determine if a child was in need of care and protection. For this, it could ask for a social investigation report on the circumstances of the child’s family and on its basis take a decision. However, the CWCs could reconsider this on the basis of the child’s individual care plan keeping in mind his or her best interests. This should be on a case-by-case priority. Before sending a child home, it should ensure this was in the child’s best interests on the basis of the social investigation report. Both the child and the parents should also be heard before a decision was taken. If a child had problems staying at home or was unable to attend online classes, the CWC concerned should be approached and steps taken to readmit the child to the institution. If a child was being de-institutionalised, the CWCs and district child protection units should ensure that the conditions were favourable for the education and development of the child, the commission said. It also asked the district child protection officers to submit a report on the details and rehabilitation measures of children sent back from homes in each district during the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/readmit-children-to-care-homes-says-panel/article33262217.ece
06 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||5,848 more cases, 5,820 recoveries||Kerala’s cumulative burden of COVID-19 rose to 6,31,615 cases with 5,848 new cases being reported on Saturday when 60,503 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. Test positivity rate remained below 10 at 9.67%. Recoveries were reported to be 5,820 and the active case pool in the State now stands at 61,393. Even when the case graph plateaued, the State’s mortality figures have not shown a similar dip. Even when the State’s COVID case fatality rate has remained well below 1%, the pandemic has been steadily claiming the elderly and those with serious co-morbidities. On Saturday too, 32 new deaths were added to the official COVID death list, taking the State’s COVID toll to 2,390. Thrissur accounted for 10 deaths, Ernakulam and Kozhikode five, Thiruvananthapuram three, Malappuram two while Kollam, Pathanamthitta, Kottayam, Palakkad and Wayanad reported one death each. Of the 5,848 new cases reported on Saturday, 5,795 were contact cases with no epidemiological link found in 613 cases. In 53 cases, a history of travel has been reported. The number of positive healthcare workers was 45.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/5848-more-cases-5820-recoveries/article33261573.ece
06 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||UDF confident of a historic win||Considering the setbacks that the Congress suffered in the district in the local body elections of 2015, the task ahead should have appeared daunting to its leaders, but District Congress Committee (DCC) president Neyyattinkara Sanal appeared supremely confident when The Hindu spoke to him late this week.  Anti-incumbency  Saying that the United Democratic Front (UDF) will register a historic win in the district, he said the front would come to power in the city Corporation and the district panchayat and capture the municipalities. “There is clear anti-incumbency in the air now. The people want to end the Left Democratic Front (LDF) rule in the Corporation, which has failed to raise it to the pride of place deserved of a capital city. We will certainly make a huge comeback,” he said. Admitting that the failure of the Congress in 2015, especially in the Corporation, was owing to issues in the candidate selection, Mr. Sanal said all such problems had been ironed out this time.   “We lost out last time mainly owing to the rebel menace. But this time, we have fielded candidates based on their winnability. In places where two or three names were finalised, we had a subcommittee to arrive at an understanding. This time, there are no rebels who can mount a serious challenge to our chances. As for the ouster of several leaders and members in the district, we had to initiate tough action against those who had fielded themselves or supported candidates against those fielded by our allies. We have to respect our allies,” he said.  Unholy nexus alleged Reacting to allegations by both the LDF and the Bharatiya Janata Party that the UDF had gone slow on the campaigning front to aid the opposite front, Mr. Sanal said these were meant to hide the unholy nexus between the LDF and the BJP. “Both of them view the Congress as their main adversary. The BJP will become inconsequential in the Corporation this time. The fight is between the UDF and the LDF,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/udf-confident-of-a-historic-win/article33262223.ece
06 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||LDF targets a clean sweep in capital||Tasting victory in most local body polls in the district five years ago, the Left Democratic Front (LDF) is targeting nothing short of a clean sweep at the hustings this time too. The Communist Party of India (Marxist)-led coalition had won 10 out of the 11 block panchayats, all the four municipalities, district panchayat, Thiruvananthapuram Corporation and a majority of grama panchayats in Thiruvananthapuram during the 2015 polls. Besides maintaining their sitting wards and divisions, they have also set their sights on wresting control of the Athiyannoor block panchayat that they had lost. CPI(M) district secretary Anavoor Nagappan, who is spearheading their campaign in the district, is confident that the Left Democratic Front (LDF) will cross the halfway mark in the 100-seat strong Thiruvananthapuram Corporation where they could win only 43 last time, largely owing to the Bharatiya Janata Party’s unprecedented show as it won 35 seats to consign the UDF to third place. Failed promises of BJP “The BJP is certain to lose many of their sitting seats. The electorate have begun to realise the dangers of backing the party considering the steep hike in petroleum and liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) prices that have derailed household budgets, the ongoing farmers’ agitation and several other issues,” he said, during an interview with The Hindu . He added that the Congress also faced severe infighting amongst its ranks. The CPI(M) leader also accused Thiruvananthapuram Vikasana Munnettam (TVM), a recently formed apolitical organisation, of working to prop up the BJP’s electoral prospects under the garb of an independent entity. “Groups such as TVM and Twenty20 tend to sacrifice social justice and work for the interests of corporate groups,” he said. The LDF has sought to project the achievements of the State government and the local bodies, which under its rule, had won numerous awards including those instituted by the Centre. Referring to the many probes by Central enforcement agencies that have put the government on the defense, Mr. Nagappan said “the people are wise to see through such ploys aimed to malign the LDF government by foisting false cases.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ldf-targets-a-clean-sweep-in-capital/article33262228.ece
06 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Arrangements in place for local body elections||All arrangements are in place in the district for the December 8 local body elections, the district administration said on Saturday. Open campaigning for the elections will come to a close at 6 p.m. on Sunday. The jamboree (‘kottikalasham’) marking the end of open campaigning has been prohibited in view of COVID-19. The district has 28,26,190 eligible voters, including 14,89,287 women, 13,36,882 men, and 21 transgender persons. The Thiruvananthapuram Corporation has 8,02,799 voters, including 4,18,065 women, 3,84,726 men, and eight transgender persons. The three-tier panchayats have 18,37,307 voters, including 9,73,932 women, 8,63,363 men, and 12 transgender voters.  Voters in municipalities The Neyyattinkara municipality has 64,475 electors, including 34,236 women and 30,239 men. Of the 55,966 voters in Nedumangad municipality, 30,086 are women and 25,879 are men. The municipality also has a transgender voter. The Attingal municipality has 32,658 voters of whom 14,983 are women and 17,675 are men. Varkala has 32,985 voters, including 17,985 women and 15,000 men. Elections are being held to 1,727 local body wards in the district. In all, 6,465 candidates are in the fray. The district has 3,281 polling stations in all. COVID-19 protocols should be strictly observed during the elections, District Collector Navjot Khosa said on Saturday. Each polling station will be assigned four polling officials, one attender, and a police officer. There will be separate queues for men and women. Elderly voters, the differently abled, and voters who are unwell need not wait in line.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/arrangements-in-place-for-local-body-elections/article33262230.ece
06 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||BJP sees prospect of capturing Corpn.||As the campaign for the 2020 edition of the local body polls winds down, V.V. Rajesh, district president of the Bharatiya Janata Party, exuded confidence that his party would capture the Thiruvananthapuram Corporation and spring surprises in the grama panchayats and municipalities as well. Voters who seek the development of the capital city would vote for the BJP in Thiruvananthapuram, Mr. Rajesh said on Saturday. In 2015, the party had won 35 seats in the 100-ward Corporation. “It should be noted that we also stood second in several of the wards. We lost them by thin margins. That, and the fact that the CPI(M)-LDF has done nothing whatsoever for the development of the capital city vastly improves our prospects. Every voter who wants development, the development of the Thiruvananthapuram airport included, will vote for us,” Mr. Rajesh, who himself is contesting from the Poojappura ward, said.  Optimum mix This time, the BJP has chosen to field as candidates a combination of seasoned hands and young faces, a decision that is expected to resonate with voters in Thiruvananthapuram, especially the younger generation. Mr. Rajesh accused the Left Democratic Front (LDF) and the United Democratic Front (UDF) of forming a nexus to defeat the BJP’s prospects in the Corporation. “They have formed an unholy alliance to defeat us in 21 Corporation wards. The move was initiated by the IUML to make sure that the BJP does not come to power in Thiruvananthapuram Corporation,” Mr. Rajesh said. While the BJP campaign in Thiruvananthapuram is garnering all the media attention, the party expects to put up a good show in the grama panchayats and the four municipalities in the district, he said. “We are confident of coming to power in many of the panchayats. In others, the BJP will be the main opposition party. In 80% of the panchayats we will be either the ruling party or the Opposition,” he said. “The election campaign of the CPI(M) has been disappointing. The Congress, on its part, has lost all hope,” Mr. Rajesh said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bjp-sees-prospect-of-capturing-corpn/article33262233.ece
06 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Decision taken at general body meet||Sources in the scientific establishment said the decision to name the campus after M.S. Golwalkar was taken at the society general body meeting of the RGCB at the CSIR Science Centre, New Delhi, on November 1, 2019. The meeting was chaired by Union Minister for Science and Technology Harsh Vardhan, also the society’s president. The meeting discussed Golwalkar’s role as professor at Banaras Hindu University and unanimously approved the proposal to set up the complex and the suggested name. Officers of the Union Department of Biotechnology, Scientific Advisory Committee chairman of the RGCB N.K. Ganguly, directors of other DBT Autonomous Institutes in their capacity as members of the RGCB Society, and former Director of the RGCB M. Radhakrishna Pillai and Controller of Administration Mohanan Nair attended the meeting. Shashi Tharoor, MP, was absent.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/decision-taken-at-general-body-meet/article33261574.ece
06 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Samagra team visits students with gifts||Differently abled students in the State were showered with presents by the Samagra Shiksha, Kerala, team on Saturday. The programme, organised in connection with observance of International Day of Persons with Disabilities, saw officials, trainers, special educators, cluster resource coordinators, and others who work to make a difference in the lives of the differently abled students reach the houses of thousands of children with hosts of presents. The one-day home visits were to felicitate and present gifts to students who participated in and excelled in cultural programmes organised online for the 50,000 differently abled children in connection with International Day of Persons with Disabilities that was celebrated from Thursday onwards.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/samagra-team-visits-students-with-gifts/article33262226.ece
06 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||288 more test positive in capital||The COVID-19 caseload in Thiruvananthapuram dipped slightly to 3,980 on Saturday when 288 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 while 337 others recovered from the illness. While almost all the new cases have been attributed to local transmission, seven health-care workers are among those who tested positive. The district’s death toll continued to rise with three more people succumbing to the disease. The deceased included a 60-year-old woman who hailed from Venkamala, a 51-year-old man who hailed from Kallambalam, and a 64-year-old man who hailed from Poonthura. As many as 567 have died here due to the pandemic thus far. The authorities have placed 1,491 people in quarantine on the day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/288-more-test-positive-in-capital/article33262220.ece
06 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Webinar on farm laws||The State Public Sector and Autonomous Bodies Officers Federation will organise a webinar at 7 p.m. on Sunday to express solidarity with the farmers’ strike. Kisan Sabha leader Viju Krishnan will speak. It can be viewed onhttps://www.facebook.com /SpatoKerala.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/webinar-on-farm-laws/article33262221.ece
06 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Lottery draw postponed||Thiruvananthapuram The draw of the Sthreesakthi lottery (SS 239) scheduled to be held on December 8 has been postponed to December 10 on account of the polling in Thiruvananthapuram, an official press note issued here on Saturday said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/lottery-draw-postponed/article33261561.ece
06 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||DCC expels sixteen members||The District Congress Committee (DCC) on Friday expelled sixteen members who have fielded themselves as rebel candidates in opposition to the official candidates or have worked for rebel candidates for the upcoming local body elections. The expelled members are Pyattuvila Sasi from Kottukal panchayat, Peringamala Suresh and Geetha from Pallichal panchayat, V.M. Shiji in Athiyannur panchayat, Sulajamani and Appukuttan in Varkala municipality, Maniyan, Bindu Sadanandan, Babu, K.P. Laila and Biju Paul in Mangalapuram panchayat, S. Sudha, Joy, and Cherunniyur Sajeevan in Cherunniyur panchayat, and Ramani and Augustine in Kattakada panchayat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/dcc-expels-sixteen-members/article33262229.ece
06 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||‘Do not block distribution of special ballots’||District Collector Navjot Khosa has directed hospitals not to prevent the distribution of special postal ballot papers to COVID-19 patients and quarantined patients. The Collector issued the direction on the basis of reports that some hospitals were preventing the entry of polling officials. Such actions amounted to a violation of election procedures, Ms. Khosa said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/do-not-block-distribution-of-special-ballots/article33262231.ece
06 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Logo of Kapila Vatsyayan dance festival released||Filmmaker Adoor Gopalakrishnan released the logo of the Kapila Vatsyayan first Indian classical dance festival organised by the Bharat Bhavan, Kerala Youth Commission, and the Culture Department on Saturday by handing it over to dancer Methil Devika. Minister for Culture A.K. Balan will inaugurate the online festival on Tuesday. Minister for Youth Affairs E.P. Jayarajan will inaugurate the valedictory on December 15.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/logo-of-kapila-vatsyayan-dance-festival-released/article33262218.ece
06 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Plea for free vaccine for senior citizens||The Senior Citizens’ Friends Welfare Association has appealed to the Central government to supply the COVID-19 vaccine free of cost for senior citizens. In a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the association said a majority of the COVID-19 casualties were persons above 60 years of age. “Many of the elderly stay in isolation and are dependent on the meagre social security pension.” The letter urged the government to offer free treatment and aftercare for senior citizens.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/plea-for-free-vaccine-for-senior-citizens/article33262181.ece
06 December 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||CM scared of facing people: Surendran||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijyan, who is scared of facing people, is keeping away from election campaigns, BJP State unit president K. Surendran has said. He was addressing ‘Thaddeshapporu’, an election programme organised by the Thrissur Press Club on Saturday. “The Chief Minister is doing online campaigning in the name of safety against COVID-19. So what about the safety of LDF candidates and the workers. Even the Prime Minister is going for election campaigning by maintaining COVID-19 guidelines. But Mr. Vijayan is not facing people. ,” Mr. Surendran said. The posters of LDF candidates did not exhibit photos of the Chief Minister. The gold smuggling case and corruption charges had damaged his image, the BJP leader alleged. New statements of Swapna Suresh would put him in more trouble. The Chief Minister is the main beneficiary of the gold smuggling case, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cm-scared-of-facing-people-surendran/article33262234.ece
06 December 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||LDF, UDF enemies of people: Suresh Gopi||The candidates representing both the LDF and the UDF in the coming local body elections are enemies of people. The NDA candidates are the army chosen by God to destroy them, Suresh Gopi, MP, has said. The Rajya Sabha MP was addressing an election meeting at Chelakkara in Thrissur district on Saturday. He attended election meetings in various parts of the district. Later in the afternoon he participated in a road show too. “The LDF rule is mired in corruption and the Opposition lacked courage to question it. The people should consider them as their enemies. They should give fitting reply in the election to the ruling and Opposition parties who forgot their responsibilities,” he said. “Though we are using our voting rights every five years, we couldn’t rewrite history so far. People should teach both the LDF and the UDF a lesson in the coming elections,” Mr. Gopi said. Suresh Gopi participated in a road show with 27 NDA candidates in an open jeep at various centres in Thrissur. The road show started by 3.30 p.m. from Chettupuzha. Candidates of respective divisions joined them from each centre. The two-and-a half hour long road show passed through Olari, Sankarankulangara, Patturaikkal, Peringavu, Ramavarmapuram, Pallimoola, Kuttumukku, Chembukkavu, Pension Moola, Nellankara, Kizhakkumpattukara and concluded at East Fort.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ldf-udf-enemies-of-people-suresh-gopi/article33262178.ece
06 December 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||KAU improves its ICAR ranking||Kerala Agricultural University (KAU) has improved its performance from 34th to 19th position in the national ranking of the Agricultural Universities for the year 2019. The annual ranking is published by the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) based on recommendations of the committee and approval by the competent authority constituted to evaluate the universities on selected performance indicators. Dr. R. Chandra Babu, Vice Chancellor, KAU, appreciated the efforts of all faculty, students and staff in enabling this achievement at the national level, a presnote said||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kau-improves-its-icar-ranking/article33262179.ece
06 December 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||536 positive cases in Thrissur||There were 536 COVID-19 cases in Thrissur district on Saturday while 590 people recovered from the disease. There are 6,399 active cases in the district and 104 people from Thrissur are undergoing treatment in hospitals in various other districts. So far 62,078 COVID-19 cases have been reported in the district and 55,217 people have recovered from the disease. According to official statistics, 518 people, including five health workers, contracted the disease through local contact on Saturday. Of them, 98 patients are above the age of 60 and 28 children are below the age of 10. In all 4,102 patients are under home observation. In all 229 people were admitted to hospitals for treatment of COVID-19 on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/536-positive-cases-in-thrissur/article33262180.ece
06 December 2020||December 06 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||For farmers’ cause||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/for-farmers-cause/article33261576.ece
06 December 2020||December 06 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Poll camaraderie||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/poll-camaraderie/article33261507.ece
06 December 2020||December 06 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||In campaign mode||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/in-campaign-mode/article33262187.ece
06 December 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||JNTU(A) V-C’s term ends||The term of Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University(JNTU) Anantapur Vice-Chancellor S. Srinivas Kumar comes to an end on Monday, but the new Vice-Chancellor is yet to be named. The V-C demits office on Monday and an announcement on the new V-C or a new person appointed as in-charge would be made before Monday evening. Registrar M. Vijayakumar on Saturday remembered the three-year term of Mr. Srinivas Kumar as one with a number of achievements in bringing development to the campus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jntua-v-cs-term-ends/article33261343.ece
06 December 2020||B. Madhu Gopal,ANDHRA PRADESH||Toll plazas to go cashless from January 1||Come January 1, the sight of seeing long lines of vehicles, waiting for payment of cash at toll plazas on the National Highways will soon be a thing of the past. The lone cash payment lanes, which are being continued at the toll plazas, despite the introduction of FASTag long ago, will be withdrawn after December 31, 2020. “About 20% of motorists are yet to take FASTag. This is because the owners of local private vehicles assume they do not need to take FASTag as they do not need to go out of the city. But, now they have to invariably take the tag as there will be no longer be ‘cash lanes’ at the toll plazas,” NHAI (Visakhapatnam) Project Director P. Siva Sankar told The Hindu on Friday. “Vehicles, without the tag, which enter the FASTag lane, will have to pay double charge. On the contrary, buying a tag will be beneficial as the amount in the tag will not lapse till it used unlike mobile prepaid cards, which lapse after a certain period of time. The tag can be obtained online by logging on to the websitewww.fastag.orgor by visiting https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.fastaguser or at toll plazas or the POS (Point of Sale) counters of banks,” he says. “The toll plaza at Aganampudi in the city has the maximum movement of vehicles at about 60,000, followed by about 40,000 each at Nathavalasa and Madapam toll gates. FASTag has been enabled at all the eight toll plazas Anakapalle, Aganampudi, Nathavalasa, Chilakapalem, Madapam, Lakshmipuram (Andhra-Odisha border), apart from the primary and secondary toll plazas on the Port Connectivity Road which falls under the jurisdiction of the NHAI, Visakhapatnam,” Mr. Siva Sankar says. The prepaid device (FASTag), which employs Radio Frequency Identification (RFID) technology, would be affixed to the windscreen of the vehicle from inside. It enables the customer to make the payment directly from the FASTag account, while the vehicle is in motion. While passing a toll gate on national highway, the customer would receive a text message on mobile phones specifying the amount deducted. The registration of the FASTag chip has to be done at the POS at any toll plaza. After getting the tag, motorists can download ‘My Fastag app’ on their cellphones and link their bank accounts with the vehicle registration numbers to get alerts on the toll amounts deducted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/toll-plazas-to-go-cashless-from-january-1/article33262260.ece
06 December 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Official: Chittoor received 60% excess rainfall in Nov.||Heavy rain lashed several parts of Chittoor district, barring Irala and Yerravaripalem, in the last days under the impact of Burevi cyclone, resulting in heavy inflows into almost all the prime medium and minor irrigation projects. Irrigation officials were kept on alert at the Araniyar, Kalangi and Krishnapuram projects, opening the crest gates to match the inflow-outflow levels. Superintending Engineer (Irrigation) M. Surender Reddy said the district recorded 285.7 mm rainfall till November 26 as against the normal rainfall of 156.5 mm in November, projecting over 60% excess rainfall. Due to the impact of Nivar cyclone, the average rainfall on November 25 and 26 alone was about 300 mm. Eastern mandals of Satyavedu, Pichatur, Nagalapuram, Varadaiahpalem, BN Kandriga, Narayanavanam and Puttur received heavy rain on Saturday, with Satyavedu recording the highest rainfall of 96 mm and Baireddipalle mandal recording the lowest of 1.4 mm. With heavy rain in the south-western upper reaches, several rivulets in Somala, Sadum and Punganur mandals saw overflowing of the causeways. Nivar had also led to damages to many irrigation sources, pegging the expenses at Rs. 29.81 lakh for temporary restoration measures, while the anticipated cost for permanent restoration of damaged sources is about Rs. 7.54 crore. Tanks filled By November 27, out of 7,653 geo-tagged tanks, 1,846 tanks were filled up to 100%, followed by 1,631 tanks by 75%, 1,596 tanks by 50% and 2,135 tanks by 25%. “Out of the total storage capacity of 32.36 tmcft in all the minor tanks, the present storage capacity is put at 19.15 tmcft, which is 59.18%,” the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/official-chittoor-received-60-excess-rainfall-in-nov/article33261346.ece
06 December 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||VRO in ACB net||Village Revenue Officer (VRO) of Basinikonda village of Madanapalle revenue division Gangadhar was reportedly caught red-handed by the Anti-Corruption Bureau sleuths while he was allegedly accepting a bribe of Rs. 1 lakh from a farmer at the MRO Office at Madanapalle on Saturday. According to the ACB Deputy SP Allabakshu, the VRO had been allegedly demanding Rs. 1 lakh as bribe from the farmer of Basinikonda village to complete some online entries in the pattadar passbook. The farmer had approached the ACB, which led to the trap. The accused was shifted to the ACB court at Nellore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vro-in-acb-net/article33261344.ece
06 December 2020||ELURU,ANDHRA PRADESH||Headache, epilepsy affect 55 persons in Eluru||Fifty-five persons, including a few children, fell sick with reeling situation and epilepsy symptoms in the town on Saturday. The reasons for the illness were not immediately known. Medical and Health, Revenue and Police officials rushed to the colonies. Emergency medical services were being provided in the medical camps arranged in the streets. Deputy Chief Minister and Health Minister Alla Kali Krishna Srinivas visited the Government Headquarters Hospital, Eluru, and enquired about the health condition of the patients. He spoke to the doctors and directed them to provide better treatment for them. West Godavari Joint Collector Himanshu Shukla told The Hindu that cases were reported from different areas in the town since morning. There was a spurt in cases by evening, he said. “Residents of Dakshina Veedhi, Arundathi Peta, Ashok Nagar, Toorpu Veedhi and other areas fell sick and were admitted to the government hospital. Patients were complaining of headache,” Mr. Shukla said. The condition of a six-year-old girl was stated to be serious, and she was shifted to Vijayawada Government General Hospital for better treatment. “The condition of all the affected people is out of danger, and a few were discharged. The condition of the girl, shifted to Vijayawada is also stable,” the Joint Collector said. Medical camps have been arranged in the colonies and about 25 ambulances, 100 doctors and necessary paramedical staff were kept ready. Sanitation drive was being taken up in the town. District Medical and Health Officer Sunanda and other officials are monitoring the situation. Samples have been sent to Regional Forensic Science Laboratory, Vijayawada. Superintendent of Police K. Narayan Naik said that police forces were pressed into service to help the grama and ward sachivalayam staff, who were conducting house-to-house surveys. “Staff in 62 sachivalayams were pressed into service to meet the emergency, along with police,” the SP said. Authorities deployed auto-rickshaws to transport the patients to hospital. A few of the patients have been admitted to private hospitals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/20-taken-ill-in-eluru-with-headache-epilepsy-symptoms/article33261476.ece
06 December 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Sustainable development can address major challenges’||Secretary, Department of Science and Technology (DST), Ashutosh Sharma, has said that COVID-19 has taught the lesson that sustainable development, as a result of sustainable knowledge, can address major challenges. While giving a lecture on the topic, ‘Art of Science in time of virus and beyond: The brave new world’ at SRM University, Amaravati, Prof. Sharma said the capacity to adapt to changes, learn new things, and lifelong learning was paramount to thrive. The convergence of multiple disciplines had an instrumental role in solving crucial problems, he observed. “Our education system must have parallel structures for multidisciplinary knowledge creation and research. We should be crossing borders of knowledge and expanding the boundaries of disciplines,” said Prof. Sharma. ‘Be self-reliant’ He suggested the scientific community to become self-reliant, and said that quality, relevance, and appropriate direction of knowledge would lead the world. Coupled with it, aspects such as self-confidence and self-respect make up the art of science, he said. Lesson from virus Emphasising on the importance of collaboration, Prof. Sharma said that COVID-19 had spurred the spirit of collaboration with a clear and shared purpose. Researchers should have a scientific temper, which entailed rational analysis of situation, positivity, optimism, and cooperation. The scientific community should critically challenge views, be inquisitive, and be able to engage people in purposeful conversation, he said. Research board to be set up Chairperson of the AP State Council for Higher Education K. Hema Chandra Reddy said that the government was planning to establish a State research board to promote multidisciplinary, quality research and coordination among the universities. Vice-Chancellor V.S. Rao, Pro Vice-Chancellor D. Narayana Rao, and more than 700 participants attended the lecture.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sustainable-development-can-address-major-challenges/article33262254.ece
06 December 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rich tributes paid to veteran journalist||Rich tributes were paid to senior journalist and former APUWJ president P.V.V. Gopalaswamy at a meeting held in Tenali on Saturday. Adviser, National Media and Inter State Affairs, Devulapalli Amar recollected his association with Gopalaswamy said that it was due to his persuasion that he decided to plunge into union activities. Gopalaswamy was an erudite reader and espoused the cause of the land, where he spent most of his life. The veteran journalist worked for Indian Express and PTI and preferred to live in Tenali. Former chairperson of Andhra Pradesh State Women Commission N. Rajakumari said that Gopalaswamy worked with honesty and integrity throughout his career and never left Tenali. Tenali MLA Annabathuni Siva Kumar said that a statue of Gopalaswamy would be erected along with other personalities in the town.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rich-tributes-paid-to-veteran-journalist/article33262255.ece
06 December 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||US varsity to offer online MS programme||The University of South Florida’s Muma College of Business will launch a new STEM-certified Global Master of Science in Business Analytics and Information Systems in May 2021. Applications are now being accepted for the new programme. Designed for working professionals in India, the cohort-based graduate programme includes online coursework in Data Mining, Database Management, Data Science programming, Big Data and Distributed Information Systems. Kaushik Dutta, Director of the Muma College of Business School of Information Systems and Management, said the new option will be offered fully online, over three semesters, in real time, on weekends during evening hours in Indian Standard Time. “Faculty in Florida will conduct online classes live for students in India. This means that working professionals throughout India will be able to be part of live virtual classrooms where they can interact with the faculty real-time,” Mr. Dutta said in a press release. The admission requirements, curriculum, faculty, course delivery and degree awarded will be identical to those of the accredited on-campus programme, said the college Dean Moez Limayem. Those interested can contact : Lajpat Roy at lajpat@usf.edu, +91 8686666668 or Srikanth Akkapeddi, sakkapeddi@usf.edu +91 9491105569. Website: usf.to/global-msbais.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/us-varsity-to-offer-online-ms-programme/article33261347.ece
06 December 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man held for sexually assaulting girl||The Kakinada police on Saturday arrested a 29-year-old man, Thadi Prabhu, on charges of sexually assaulting a five-year-old girl. The girl was abducted from her house by the accused who allegedly raped her on November 24 night. Addressing a press conference, East Godavari SP Adnan Nayeem Asmi said the accused reportedly admitted to the crime during investigation. A case under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO Act) 2012 has been registered. The accused belongs to Kakinada and was reportedly previously involved in the 16 cases of house burglary in the district. He reportedly left for Hyderabad after committing the alleged offence and was nabbed on Saturday at Kathipudi in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-held-for-sexually-assaulting-girl/article33261348.ece
06 December 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Enumeration of crop loss tardy: Lokesh||TDP national general secretary N. Lokesh on Saturday asked the YSRCP government to complete enumeration of the loss inflicted on the farmers by Cyclone Nivar and provide liberal compensation to them. Visiting the flooded farms in the Chirala and Parchur Assembly constituencies along with Parchur MLA Yeluri Sambasiva Rao and others, Mr. Lokesh said each farmer had been saddled with a debt of more than Rs. 6 lakh as the cyclone destroyed, among other crops, paddy and chilli. Input subsidy to the growers should be enhanced to at least Rs. 25,000 per hectare, he added. Consoling a group of farmers who showed wet paddy to the visiting leaders, Mr. Lokesh said it was unfortunate that the enumeration of crop loss was going at a snail’s pace. “What has happened to the village secretariat system? What are the village volunteers doing?” he asked. In contrast, the TDP government had completed assessment of crop loss speedily and ensured compensation to the coconut and cashewnut growers affected by the very severe cyclonic storm Titli in 2018 in just 28 days, he said. Crop insurance He took a dig at the YSRCP government for belatedly paying crop insurance premium. Tenant farmers, who grew chilli hoping for good returns going by the previous year’s experience, were the worst-hit by Nivar, and were ruing their fate for losing the crop, Mr. Lokesh said after visiting a farm at Annambotlavaripalem village. The ‘rythu bharosa’ promised for the tenant farmers by the YSRCP government remained only on paper, he alleged.  Mr. Lokesh also criticised the government for not fully spending the allocation made for agriculture. Though more than Rs. 3,500 crore had been allocated for agriculture in the budget, only Rs. 500 crore was spent, he alleged. ‘Negligent handling’ Interacting with farmers in Ponnur and Bapatla mandals, Mr. Lokesh slammed the government for its “most negligent handling” of the crop losses due to successive cyclones. The TDP leader said he found it amusing that Minister of Agriculture K. Kanna Babu had made a statement on the Floor of the Assembly that the farmers in the State were happy. “How can the farmers be happy when the crop is submerged? Is this the way the government handles an emergency situation?” questioned Mr. Lokesh. He demanded that the government should pay a compensation of Rs. 25,000 per acre and rescue the farmers.  What has happened to the village secretariat system? What are the village volunteers doing? The ‘rythu bharosa’ promised for the tenant farmers by the YSRCP government remained only on paper Nara Lokesh TDP leader||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/enumeration-of-crop-loss-tardy-lokesh/article33262166.ece
06 December 2020||ONGOLE/NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Active cases fall below 1,000-mark||The number of active COVID-19 cases fell below the 1,000-mark in South Coastal Andhra Pradesh, with recoveries outnumbering new cases in the last 24 hours. Both Nellore and Prakasam districts registered zero deaths during the period, according to a health bulletin released by the State government on Saturday night. While 67 positive cases were registered in both districts, the number of recoveries stood at 149. The caseload rose to 1,24,745 for both districts combined. In an encouraging development, the active caseload dipped to 978 with the 149 recoveries in the last 24 hours. Recovery rate improved The recovery rate has improved further to 98.75% as 1,23,189 patients recovered from the virus so far. Meanwhile, Prakasam Collector Pola Bhaskar reviewed the preparedness of the Chirala civic body in handling a possible second wave of the pandemic. “There can be no room for complacency as the second wave of coronavirus may be more severe in intensity,” he cautioned during his visit to Ganjipalem ward secretariat in the handloom town. Collector irked The Collector expressed his displeasure over the lapses in identifying primary and secondary contacts of those who had tested positive. He wanted the Secretariat functionaries to step up awareness on the use of face masks, maintaining physical distancing in public places and frequent washing of hands with disinfectants, stating that these measures alone would keep the dreaded disease at bay. The civic staff said that as many as 72 positive cases had been reported in the ward. There were no active cases now as all of them had recovered, they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/active-cases-fall-below-1000-mark/article33262160.ece
06 December 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||FASTag payment at Alipiri toll gate soon||As part of its efforts to encourage digital payments, the TTD is contemplating introducing FASTag system at its Alipiri toll plaza at Tirupati. The objective is to relieve the devout from the long waiting time and help decongest the area which frequently remains packed with vehicles during holidays and on festive occasions. Simultaneously, the TTD is also mulling installation of CCTV cameras all along the ghat roads to check road accidents and overspeeding of vehicles. A Bengaluru-based company is learnt to have already conducted a preliminary survey and identified certain points for setting up of the cameras, in such a way that the face of the driver also gets captured along with the number plate of the vehicle. The move will also help check the dubious methods adopted by some local taxi drivers who either submit old toll receipts or avoid toll by greasing the palms of the security personnel, as the time of their crossing the toll gates gets recorded on the cameras.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/fastag-payment-at-alipiri-toll-gate-soon/article33262161.ece
06 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||It’s story time for children every Sunday||Schoolchildren have something exciting to look forward to from this Sunday (December 6). ‘Sunday Story Time’, a new activity being introduced as part of ‘We Love Reading’ (Chadavatam Makishtam) initiative introduced by the Samagra Siksha wing of the Education Department, aims at inculcating reading habit among children. Under this programme, students of Classes 3 to 9 will gather at their nearest public library, a specific colony or street from 10 a.m. to 12 noon and read story books. For its successful implementation, the Samagra Siksha wing is collaborating with the directors of Public Libraries, District Education Officers, Additional Project Coordinators of the department, principals of DIETs and volunteers of grama sachivalayams. “On Saturday, the headmasters, teachers, education and welfare assistants and staff of public libraries should select a book from their libraries or the school libraries, preferably from the sections of children’s literature or children’s story books in the required numbers and on Sunday, a selected volunteer will read a story to the children first and after a brief introduction of the mass reading activity, children will read the same story on their own,” explained K. Vetri Selvi, State Project Director of Sarva Shiksha wing. Officials told to attend She said the directors of the public libraries and their entire team, DEOs and other officials had been asked to attend the nearest library and take the lead in promoting community reading. Since libraries provided a conducive environment for reading, public libraries run by the government would become the hubs of young book-readers amidst strict adherence of the COVID-19 guidelines. “One main reading activity will be conducted by the district central libraries, branch libraries, village libraries and book deposit centres. The library staff should take part in the activity and local leaders may be involved in the campaign to propagate We Love Reading initiative,” she said. Children in rural pockets who do not have access to libraries can assemble at a designated place for the reading sessions under the guidance of the local officials. The initiative was launched at the State level by the Home Minister M. Sucharitha and Education Minister A. Suresh on November 26 in Guntur. It was simultaneously launched in all district and mandal headquarters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/its-story-time-for-children-every-sunday/article33262256.ece
06 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||All districts report fewer than 100 COVID cases||The State witnessed four more deaths and 630 new COVID infections in the 24 hours ending Saturday morning. The tally increased to  8,71,305 and the toll reached  7,024  with a death rate of 0.81%. Two deaths were reported in Krishna district, which has the highest death rate, and one each in Chittoor and Vizianagaram. Meanwhile, 882 patients recovered in the past day taking the recovery rate to 98.49% and total recoveries to 8,58,115. There are 6,166  patients undergoing treatment currently in the State. Only 57,132 samples were tested in the past day and their positivity rate was 1.10%, while the overall positivity rate of 1.035 crore samples tested remains at 8.42%. All the districts reported less than 100 new infections. Krishna which reported the highest number of new deaths also reported the highest number of new infections in the past day. The district-wise new infection tallies are as follows: Krishna (97), West Godavari (90), Chittoor (89), Guntur (85), Visakhapatnam (64), Visakhpatnam (40), Prakasam (35), Nellore (32), Anantapur (29), Kadapa (28), Vizianagaram (24), Srikakulam (12) and Kurnool (5). Recovery rate in Vizianagaram crossed 99%, and it has only 153 active cases and 236 deaths. Ten other districts have more than 98% recovery rate while Guntur has 97.87% recovery rate. Krishna has the least recovery rate at 96.12%. The district tallies are as follows: East Godavari (1,22,612), West Godavari (92,860), Chittoor (84,161), Guntur (73,283), Anantapur (66,825), Prakasam (61,593), Nellore (61,586), Kurnool (60,287), Visakhapatnam (58,423), Kadapa (54,485), Krishna (45,992), Srikakulam (45,537) and Vizianagaram (40,766).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/all-districts-report-fewer-than-100-covid-cases/article33262164.ece
06 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSRCP trying to drive a wedge between TDP and BCs: Naidu||TDP national president Nara Chandrababu Naidu on Saturday accused the YSR Congress Party leaders of trying to drive a wedge between the BCs and his party. In a statement, the TDP chief said his party shared a strong bond with the Backward Classes and nothing could come between him and the BC communities. He said the TDP had always fought for the rights of the BCs. Citing recent examples of how the TDP had brought to the public notice the ‘injustice meted out to the BCs’ by the YSRCP government in the appointment of Vice-Chancellors to the State universities and advisers to the TTD, Mr. Naidu said this had rattled the ruling party leaders who were now desperate to malign his image among the BCs by unleashing a misleading campaign. The TDP government had established the BC corporation for social, economic and political upliftment of the community. He said the 34% reservation implemented for BCs in local body elections by his government was cancelled by the Jagan government and, as a result, 16,800 people belonging to these Backward Castes were deprived of the chance to contest the local body elections. Mr. Naidu said the Chief Minister’s concern for the BCs was not real and it reflected in the fact that his government did not allocate any funds to the 56 BC corporations constituted by him. Farm laws Referring to the farmers’ agitation at the Centre in protest against the new farm laws, Mr. Naidu said the Centre should place the issue for extensive debate to elicit views and suggestions of stakeholders and experts. He said farmers’ interests should be taken care of before arriving at any decision involving their welfare.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysrcp-trying-to-drive-a-wedge-between-tdp-and-bcs-naidu/article33262168.ece
06 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Withdraw orders increasing property tax and water charges, demands TDP||The Telugu Desam Party(TDP) has asked the government to withdraw the increase in water charges and property tax in the urban areas. TDP Polit Bureau member Bonda Umamaheswara Rao, who led a protest at the Dharna Chowk here, said the new system of taxation would increase the burden on property owners as well as tenants. He said under the new system the property tax, the water tax and the drainage charges would increase manifold. The TDP leader demanded immediate withdrawal of GOs 196, 197 and 198 issued recently. “It is not correct for the government to say that it has issued the orders as per the Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management Act(FRMB Act) and burden the common man to increase its borrowing capacity,” he said. ‘Will continue stir’ He said the TDP would continue to fight against the government until the orders were withdrawn. TNTUC president G. Raghurama Raju, State secretary N. Sambasiva Rao and other TDP leaders took part.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/withdraw-orders-increasing-property-tax-and-water-charges-demands-tdp/article33262252.ece
06 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Create awareness on LRS: official||Vijayawada Municipal Corporation Commissioner V. Prasanna Venkatesh has asked the officials to create awareness and encourage landowners in the city to apply for Layout Regularisation Scheme. During a field visit on Saturday, Mr. Venkatesh inspected Mithila Nagar and Joji Nagar areas. The VMC Commissioner also directed the officials to approach vacant landowners and ask them to apply for the scheme. ‘Maintain vacant lands’ He also asked officials to ensure that vacant lands were properly maintained by the owners so that they did not turn into dumping sites and cause public health issues.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/create-awareness-on-lrs-official/article33262253.ece
06 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Congress leaders put under house arrest||Andhra Pradesh Congress Committee president Sake Sailajanath, working president Sk. Masthan Vali and scores of other party leaders were kept under house arrest on Saturday as they were proceeding to meet Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy for requesting him to not break the capital into three parts in the name of decentralisation and shift the ‘executive capital’ to Visakhapatnam with that excuse. Mr. Sailajanath was confined to the party office at Mangalagiri and Mr. Vali to his residence in Guntur by the police who were deployed in large numbers to prevent any untoward incident. On the occasion, Mr. Sailajanath said his party was in favour of Amaravati as the capital city and that the denial of an appointment with the CM exposed his undemocratic functioning. Former Chief Minister Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy would not have behaved like his son, when the issue at stake had far-reaching implications for the five crore people of the State, the PCC chief observed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/congress-leaders-put-under-house-arrest/article33262171.ece
06 December 2020||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ensure fool-proof implementation of YSR Cheyutha: dairy farmers||Dairy farmers of various districts have alleged irregularities in the distribution of cattle under the TDP government’s Janma Bhoomi - Maa Vooru (JBMV) scheme, and appealed to the Animal Husbandry Minister to ensure that such irregularities are not committed in the YSR Cheyutha scheme launched by the Jagan Mohan Reddy government recently. Farmers from Krishna, Prakasam, and East and West Godavari districts said that under the JBMV scheme launched in 2015 and 2018, four firms had supplied hybrid variety cattle to the beneficiaries. ‘Milk yield lesser than promised’ “The companies had supplied cattle from Haryana and Gujarat. As per the veterinary officials, the buffaloes should give more than six litres of milk every day. But they are giving only one litre now,” said a farmer, Sk. Karimulla. The companies that had supplied cattle then filed tenders under the YSR Cheyutha programme too, he said, and added that the tenders had been accepted as well. Another farmer, Narasimha Rao, said then Principal Secretary, Animal Husbandry and Dairy Development, had directed the Joint Directors of the department to identify the cattle that were yielding less milk, stop payment to the suppliers, and initiate action against the veterinary doctors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ensure-fool-proof-implementation-of-ysr-cheyutha-dairy-farmers/article33262175.ece
06 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Over 85,000 students take RGUKT entrance test||The Rajiv Gandhi University of Knowledge Technologies (RGUKT) Common Entrance Test -2020, conducted in 630 exam centres across 13 districts of the State and eight centres in Telangana on Saturday, was a smooth affair. Exam convenor D. Harinarayana, in a statement, said of the 88,974 registered candidates, 85,760 (96%) of them wrote the test. Srikakulam recorded the highest percentage of attendance (97.61) while Visakhapatnam recorded lowest percentage (95.38) across the districts of Andhra Pradesh. In Telangana, Khammam district recorded 95% attendance while Nizamabad recorded 86.6 % attendance. The initial key and proforma for raising objections by the candidates are hosted in the university websitewww.rgukt.in. Candidates intending to raise objections on the key may fill the proforma and submit online with evidence on or before 5 p.m. on December 7. Education Minister A. Suresh, visited the exam centre at the Zilla Parishad High School at Markapuram in Prakasam to inspect the arrangements.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/over-85000-students-take-rgukt-entrance-test/article33262162.ece
06 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Poll resolution unilateral: Atchannaidu||TDP State president K. Atchannaidu on Saturday said the resolution passed in the Assembly on the last day of the winter session on Friday against holding elections to the local bodies in February was “unilateral and undemocratic”, and said the YSRCP was afraid of facing the voters. He said while every State was holding elections, it was ridiculous on the part of the ruling party to cite COVID-19 as an excuse to postpone the elections. “Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy is behaving like an autocrat,” he added. He criticised Mr. Jagan for participating in a debate on coronavirus without wearing face masks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/poll-resolution-unilateral-atchannaidu/article33262167.ece
06 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Road repairs neglected, alleges BJP||BJP State general secretary S. Vishnuvardhan Reddy has said that bad condition of roads is causing accidents but the government is in a slumber. The officials were not even getting the roads repaired, he alleged while participating in a State-wide protest against the government’s alleged negligence, at Madhu Chowk here on Saturday. Mr. Vishnuvardhan Reddy said the funds given by the Centre to the Panchayat Raj Department for undertaking rural road repairs were diverted. The government should release a White Paper on the condition of roads, funds available and how they were utilised, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/road-repairs-neglected-alleges-bjp/article33262169.ece
06 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Seven arrested in various cases in city||The city police arrested seven persons allegedly involved in various offences at various areas here on Saturday. Addressing a press conference here on Saturday, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Crimes) V. Suresh Babu said that in one case, the police arrested P. Venkata Durga Prasad (47) and G. Solomon Raju (55), of Gajuwaka area for allegedly being involved in a house break-in case reported at Gajuwaka, in Visakhapatnam. The police have recovered five tolas of gold and Rs. 70,000 cash from them.  ‘MBA student’ In another case, two youth, including an MBA student, were arrested for allegedly picking pockets in the city. The police said that M. Nikhil Teja Krishna Sai (21), MBA second-year student, and Ahmed Shariff (23) had intercepted a motorist on the pretext of asking for address and picked his wallet. Cash to the tune of Rs. 20,000 and other items stolen in the incident. Acting on a tip-off, the police arrested the accused and recovered Rs. 16,500 from them. The DCP said that both the accused were friends and used to lead a a lavish life. To meet their expenses, they started committing offences, he said. In another case, the MVP Police arrested one K. Santosh (34), a resident of HB Colony, for allegedly committing theft of a two-wheeler on August 26. Being addicted to liquor and vices, the accused started committing crimes, police added. In another case, G. Venkatesh (30), a resident of Kancharapalem, was arrested for allegedly attempting to extract money from a driver, by impersonating himself as police near Kancharapalem. Another accused is yet to be arrested in the case. A 21-year-old graduate A. Raju of Anandapuram was arrested for allegedly committing theft of a generator at Vemulavasala. ADCP (Crimes) Venugopal Naidu, ACP (Crimes) Ch. Penta Rao and a few others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/7-arrested-in-various-cases/article33262202.ece
06 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Guntur-based chartered accountant held for ‘GST fraud’||The Directorate General of GST Intelligence (DGGI), Visakhapatnam Zonal unit has busted a major input tax credit (ITC) racket being operated by a 28-year-old cr̥hartered accountant based at Guntur. The CA was involved in issuing fake GST invoices to the tune of Rs. 30 crore, fraudulently using 14 GST registered firms, to various infra companies located in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. He was getting commission from the recipient entities of such fake invoices without the knowledge of the proprietors of those businesses. Various firms, mostly created with fictitious addresses in and around Guntur, were identified and simultaneous searches carried out at several locations in Andhra Pradesh. These searches revealed that the chartered accountant, the mastermind behind the creation of these firms, had passed on fake credit of Rs. 7.5 crore (approx.) to various infra companies in the two States. The kingpin behind this racket had been located after sustained field work and arrested on Saturday. ‘ Further Investigation is under way. Recently, the DGGI has intensified its efforts to curb ITC frauds which lead to a lot of evasion of taxes. Since November, 11 cases were booked following detection of 51 such dummy/non-existent GST registrations responsible for transactions to the tune of Rs. 440 crore involving duty evasion of Rs. 38 crore. Three persons have also been arrested in these cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/guntur-based-chartered-accountant-held-for-gst-fraud/article33262176.ece
06 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||12 Maoist militia surrender in a blow to Galikonda committee||In a significant development during the PLGA (People’s Liberation Guerilla Army) week that is currently being observed by the banned CPI (Maoist), 12 militia members of the Galikonda area committee surrendered before the ASP of Chintapalli Vidya Sagar Naidu, here on Saturday. The militia members are from interior villages of Patrunigunta, Ramagadda, Pansalabandha and Aakuluru. “Normally, during the PLGA week, the Maoists organise meetings to spread their ideology and use the platform to recruit fresh cadres and militia members. Most of the meetings are organised by the militia, and their surrender during the week is a significant development for us and a big blow to the Maoist movement in the Visakha agency,” said Mr. Naidu. In the last 30 days, about 25 militia members had surrendered to the District Police, and this apparently has caused a big setback to the Maoists. Key role “In November, we had about 13 surrenders and now we have 12. This has further weakened the Galikonda area committee,” said Superintendent of Police B. Krishna Rao. Militia members are considered to be the backbone of the Maoist movement, as it is they who organise meetings, provide logistical support, supply food, medicines and other essentials, do the recce for them and give information on the movement of security forces. Galikonda area, which comprises mandals such as Chintapalli, GK Veedhi and parts of Koyyuru, has always been a Maoist hotbed but since 2016 it has been suffering serious setbacks and their presence has weakened considerably. The downfall started with the killing of Gopal alias Azad in an alleged exchange of fire with security forces in May 2016 in Marripakala in Koyyuru mandal. Azad was then the DCM and was leading the movement. His successor Jambri was also killed in an alleged encounter in February 2017 near Annavaram village under Mampa police limits in Koyyuru. Following this, Naveen was elevated as DCM but he surrendered within a year in 2019. This year Gemmeli Kamesh alias Hari, the successor of Jambri, was arrested by the police in October and since then there have been over 30 surrenders, including 25 in the last 30 days. It is estimated that there are about 150 militia members in the region and the movement is now being led by Kora Nageswara Rao with 7 to 10 hardcore cadres. Assistant Commandant of CRPF, GK Veedhi, Devendra Naidu and Assistant Commandant of Pedavalasa, Paparao were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/12-maoist-militia-surrender-in-a-blow-to-galikonda-committee/article33262172.ece
06 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Beware of landmines’||The district police here on Saturday cautioned the residents of a few tribal villages in the interior parts of the Agency area to be alert to the landmines that might have probably been planted by the banned CPI (Maoist). PLGA Week The Maoists are observing the People’s Liberation Guerilla Army (PLGA) Week from December 2, and it is feared that it may try to step up violence during the period. “We have concrete information that the Maoists have planted landmines on the hillocks near the hamlets of Salebulu, Nanubari, Chintalaveedhi, Jamiguda and Sariapalli, all located in Pedabayalu and Munchingput mandals,” said SP B. Krishna Rao. In the last week of August, two tribals grazing their cattle at Chintalaveedhi were killed when they accidentally stepped on a landmine planted by the Maoists.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/beware-of-landmines/article33262173.ece
06 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||District sees 62 new COVID cases in 48 hours||Visakhapatnam district reported 62 fresh COVID-19 cases in the last 48 hours, including 40 cases in the last 24 hours, from Friday morning to Saturday morning, taking the cumulative tally to 58,935. The number of recoveries has crossed the 58,000-mark, after 190 persons who were undergoing treatment recovered in the last 48 hours. The number of recoveries stands at 58,002. The recovery rate is inching towards 99% and now stand at 98.4 %. The number of active cases has come down below 500-mark for the first time since the last week of June and stand at 421. Special Officer for COVID-19, Visakhapatnam district, P.V. Sudhakar, said that among the 421 active cases, about 200 are in being treated in hospitals. No deaths were reported consecutively for two days in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/district-sees-62-new-covid-cases-in-48-hours/article33262264.ece
06 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Prostitution racket busted, couple held||In a joint operation on Friday night, the CID and the city police busted an online prostitution racket in the city. It was a State-wide raid and similar crackdowns took place in Tirupati, Vijayawada and Rajahmundry, said Two Town Police Station SHO Venkat Rao. In Visakhapatnam, the police arrested a man and his wife and rescued one 22-year-old woman from Kolkata. As per the initial investigation, the phone numbers of high-profile escort services are hosted on the online and the entire transaction is reportedly overseen by handlers from Kolkata or other big cities. Once a client contacts the number, he is asked to come to a hotel, where the woman is sent. “It was through covert operation that we tracked down the couple, when they were escorting the victim to a star hotel to meet a client,” said Mr. Venkat Rao.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/prostitution-racket-busted-couple-held/article33262271.ece
06 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Don’t burden people by levying taxes: TDP MLAs||TDP MLAs have urged the State government not to burden people by levying taxes on them. Speaking to the media, MLAs V. Ramakrishna Babu and Ganababu said the government was giving money in the name of schemes and at the same time extracting money from people in the form of taxes. They said the government spent more of the precious Assembly time suspending TDP members and there was hardly any fruitful discussion on public issues. They said the building construction workers welfare fund was not at all utilised till now. Except liquor trade all businesses suffered losses, they said .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dont-burden-people-by-levying-taxes-tdp-mlas/article33262272.ece
06 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Missing bag with gold ornaments traced in 1 hour||Quick response from the city traffic police helped a woman get back her missing bag containing gold ornaments worth Rs. 8 lakh within an hour, here on Saturday. The police said T. Radhika (41) boarded an auto-rickshaw from Railway Station to RTC Complex, in the city. While getting down, she forgot her bag in the vehicle. She immediately contacted nearest Dwaraka traffic police. The vehicle was tracked at Beach Road and stopped. The police recovered the bag and handed it over to Ms. Radhika. The police said that the auto driver didn’t know that the bag was left in the vehicle.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/missing-bag-with-gold-ornaments-traced-in-1-hour/article33262266.ece
06 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||15 passengers injured as private bus overturns||Fifteen passengers were injured when a private bus overturned after reportedly being hit by a speeding lorry near Car Shed Junction at PM Palem in Visakhapatnam in the early hours of Saturday. The police said the bus was coming to Visakhapatnam from Berhampur (Odisha).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/15-passengers-injured-as-private-bus-overturns/article33262261.ece
06 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Reduce maternal and infant mortality in Agency: ITDA PO||Project Officer, Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA), Paderu, S. Venkateswar, said that YSR Sampoornaposhana scheme should be implemented strictly to bring down child and mother deaths, in the Agency. He was conducting a meet on maternal healthcare and mortality in Paderu region, here on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/reduce-maternal-and-infant-mortality-in-agency-itda-po/article33262263.ece
06 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Purushotham appointed IPR Chair Professor of AU||Andhra University Vice-Chancellor P.V.G.D. Prasad Reddy on Saturday issued orders appointing Hanumanthu Purushotham, an eminent scientist and alumni of Andhra University (AUCE 1977-82), as the IPR Chair Professor. Mr. Purushotham reported to duty on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/purushotham-appointed-ipr-chair-professor-of-au/article33262262.ece
06 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Special drive to be conducted on cleanliness in 35 mandals from tomorrow||Zilla Parishad CEO Nagarjuna Sagar said that as part of the second phase of ‘Manam Mana Parisubratha’ programme, a special drive would be conducted over cleanliness . A fortnight drive will be observed from December 7 to 21, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/special-drive-to-be-conducted-on-cleanliness-in-35-mandals-from-tomorrow/article33262265.ece
06 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two pistols recovered from house||Anakapalle police recovered two pistols from the house of a person who recently allegedly ended his life, here on Saturday. On November 27, B. Lokanadham (47) allegedly ended his life. Lokanadham, a resident of NTR Colony, Gavarapalem, stayed alone after he got separated from his family. When some of his family members were cleaning his house, they found two pistols and informed police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-pistols-recovered-from-house/article33262267.ece
06 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Make arrangements for Venkaiah’s visit’||Joint Collector R. Govinda Rao instructed the officials to make all arrangements for Vice President M. Venkaiah Naidu’s visit to the city scheduled from December 7 to 13. He organised a teleconference with them on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/make-arrangements-for-venkaiahs-visit/article33262268.ece
06 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Beach clean-up drive organised by Indian Navy||Eastern Naval Command undertook a beach clean-up drive at RK Beach and Bheemili Beach, as part of Navy Day Celebrations on Saturday. The event was conducted while strictly adhering to the COVID-19 protocols by naval personnel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/beach-clean-up-drive-organised-by-indian-navy/article33262270.ece
06 December 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vizianagaram sees rise in traffic jams||Traffic jams have become the order of the day across Viziangaram town due to the ever-increasing number of vehicles and shrinking road space. Snarls are a regular sight at the MR College-PW Market Junction, Mill Junction-Ring Road, and Seven Lamps Junction. Goods vehicles that come for loading and unloading of essential goods at PW Market are parked on the road leading to the main branch of SBI, causing a major traffic snarl between Clock Tower Junction and Balaji Junction. Another menace is the practice of auto-rickshaw drivers parking on the road to pick up passengers. The movement of heavy vehicles on Dharmapuri Road, which leads to Aainada Junction-NH, is also leading to traffic jams in the morning and evening. Traffic has also significantly increased between Ashoka Theatre junction and Cantonment, leading to vehicles moving at a snail’s pace on the stretch. The police department is struggling to control the traffic jams at many places thanks to a dearth of staff in its traffic wing. “Vizianagaram is a major commercial hub. It is one of the main reasons for the movement of many vehicles, including heavy vehicles. Traffic and municipal authorities should chalk out an action plan for better traffic management in the town. They need to identify places for parking of heavy vehicles. It will avoid traffic jams to some extent,” said B. Sekhar, a trader. Two years ago, the police department had conducted a traffic awareness programme with stakeholders and assured to minimise traffic jams across the town. However, many proposals, including installing traffic lights at several junctions and removal of encroachments, have remained only on paper.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vizianagaram-sees-rise-in-traffic-jams/article33262201.ece
06 December 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP holds protest over bad roads||The BJP organised a protest in Vizianagaram over the deplorable condition of roads in the town and other parts of the district. BJP’s Vizianagaram Assembly in-charge Kusumanchi Subba Rao and party leader Reddi Pavani staged a protest at Kanyakaparameswari junction and later led a rally up to Clock Tower Junction to draw attention of the people. Mr. Subbarao said that many road accidents were occurring due to the condition of the roads. He said that the people were facing many hurdles during night time. The leaders urged to take up road repairs along the 71-km Vizianagaram-Parvatipuram stretch.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bjp-holds-protest-over-bad-roads/article33262199.ece
06 December 2020||December 06 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Great escape||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/great-escape/article33262258.ece
06 December 2020||December 06 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||A bird’s eye view||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/a-birds-eye-view/article33262274.ece
06 December 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Massive vote-share swing helped BJP||Preliminary figures show a massive 24.26% vote-share swing in its favour was the key to the stunning performance of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) election. The BJP saw the number of wards held by the party rise from 4 in 2016 to 46 this time round. The Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) saw a 8.95% vote-share swing away from it, leading to the drop in the number of wards the party controls in one of the richest corporations in the country. In contrast, the BJP saw its vote share jump from 10.34% in the 2016 GHMC election to 34.56% in 2020. The numbers for TRS dipped from a high of 14,68,618 votes in 2016 to 12,04,167 votes this time. The BJP saw the number of voters favouring it rocket from 3,46,253 to 11,95,711. The difference in voteshare between BJP and TRS was just 0.3% But BJP’s victory came at the cost of almost all the other parties, more so, from its one-time partner — the TDP which had allied with the BJP in 2016 elections. The TDP identified with the communities living in certain eastern and western pockets of the city has been decimated with its vote share plunging from 13.11% to 1.61%. The party had won one seat then but drew a blank this time. In 2014 Assembly elections, the TDP’s vote share was 20.9% and the two parties together snagged 14 of the 24 Assembly constituencies in the city. Surprisingly, the Congress vote share dipped to 6.5% but the number of wards the party won in this civic election remained the same: two. The All India Majlis Ittehadul Muslimeen, which managed to hold on to its numbers, actually saw its vote share go up from 15.85% in 2016 to 18.28%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/massive-vote-share-swing-helped-bjp/article33262100.ece
06 December 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Who after Uttam? New TPCC chief only next year||After the resignation of Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) chief N. Uttam Kumar Reddy post GHMC poll results, the focus has shifted on who will succeed him, but the answer may come after a month and not immediately. But unlike in the past, the process may start early now to face the Nagarjunasagar by-poll that is expected to be conducted in a few months. The resignation of Mr. Uttam Kumar Reddy has been pending with the AICC for a year now so the process for finding the new chief will also begin immediately. AICC in-charge for Telangana Manickam Tagore will be in the city from December 8 to begin the process of wider consultation with senior leaders and groups to elicit their opinion. He is likely to meet around 100 leaders, including those from the districts and frontal organisations apart from the seniors. Mr. Tagore will spend three to four days and have a one-on-one conversation with the identified leaders than as a group, as the idea is to get a fair and fearless opinion. He will then submit a report to AICC president Sonia Gandhi, who will take the final call. The report will take into consideration the strengths and weaknesses of each individual and their ability to spur party’s growth and cadre confidence. Sources said though the effort is to complete the process within three to four weeks, the final announcement depends on Ms. Gandhi’s time. “So we can’t say when exactly the decision would be made,” a senior leader in the high command told The Hindu . To elicit opinion The AICC in-charge is also likely to elicit opinion on the Campaign Committee chairman, which has assumed greater importance after Mr. Rahul Gandhi took over as the president. The position will be on a par with the PCC chief. Though several names are doing the rounds, the strong contenders within the Congress party include TPCC working president A. Revanth Reddy, Bhongir MP Komatireddy Venkat Reddy, CLP leader Bhatti Vikramarka and Manthani MLA D. Sreedhar Babu. However, seniors like Sangareddy MLA T. Jayaprakash Reddy, AICC secretary Madhu Yashki and TPCC working president Ponnam Prabhakar too, have expressed their desire to lead the party citing seniority, experience and the will to take on the government. Mass appeal The cadre, however, expect a leader who has mass following when the BJP is steadfastly eating into the vote base of the Congress occupying the opposition space as was evident in the Dubbak by-poll and the GHMC elections. The aggression of the new leader has to match with that of the BJP if the party has to be rejuvenated is the opinion of the grass-root level cadre. Social engineering is another angle the party will seriously consider while picking the new chief. If that is the case there will be a churning of the present posts of senior leaders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/new-tpcc-chief-only-next-year/article33262108.ece
06 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Kin of three TRS MLAs bite the dust in GHMC polls||Prominent losers from the Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) in the just-concluded GHMC elections included relatives of at least three TRS MLAs and a former Minister. Among them was Uppal MLA Bethi Subhash Reddy’s wife Swapna, who is a sitting corporator of Habsiguda. Musheerabad MLA Mutha Gopal’s sister-in-law Padma lost from Gandhinagar despite intense door-to-door campaign by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao’s daughter and MLC K. Kavitha. Secunderabad Cantonment MLA G. Sayanna’s daughter Lasya Nandita, who was a corporator of Kavadigua, also lost the election. Then, there was former Home Minister Nayani Narasimha Reddy’s son-in-law Srinivas Reddy, who was a TRS ticket aspirant from Musheerabad Assembly constituency in 2018 elections, who lost from Ramnagar. He was also a sitting corporator of Ramnagar. Prominent among the kin of leaders to win were TRS Parliamentary party leader K. Keshava Rao’s daughter Gadwal Vijayalaxmi, who retained Banjara Hills division, by defeating former BJP MLA Baddam Balreddy’s son Mahipal Reddy. Former Congress Legislature Party leader P. Janardhan Reddy’s daughter P.Vijaya Reddy also won a second time as TRS candidate from Khairatabad. Former TRS MLA of Malkajgiri ,Chintala Kanaka Reddy’s daughter-in-law Vijayashanti Reddy won from Alwal and TRS MLC Bhoopal Reddy’s daughter-in-law V. Sindhu Adarsh Reddy from Bharatinagar near Patancheru. The latter is strongly favoured to be the Mayoral candidate of TRS. In the family of Kukatpally TRS MLA Madhavaram Krishna Rao, there were two winners. His brother-in-law Jupally Satyanarayana won from Kukatpally and sister-in-law Madhavaram Roja from Vivekanandanagar. Former Union Minister A. Narendra’s daughter was the lone candidate from the families of BJP leaders to win from Gowlipura.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/kin-of-three-trs-mlas-bite-the-dust-in-ghmc-polls/article33262091.ece
06 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||BJP would have won 100 seats with more time: Bandi Sanjay||But for the lack of time for selection of candidates and campaigning with hurried announcement of the election schedule, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) would have performed much better and won about 100 seats and renamed Hyderabad as Bhagyanagar as promised, State party president Bandi Sanjay Kumar said on Saturday. Speaking after holding a meeting of the GHMC election management committee in the party’s State headquarters Shyama Prasad Mukherjee Bhavan, Mr. Sanjay said that the party’s tally of 48 out of 149 seats contested indicates the massive increase in people’s support for it since the party had won only four seats in the 2016 election. “The BJP’s surge has been possible in spite of all conspiracies of the ruling TRS to stall its (BJP’s) growth by not giving ample time even for selection of candidates, lest campaigning,” Mr. Sanjay said. He observed that the party’s win in the Dubbak by-election first and GHMC polls now, clearly indicated that people have resolved to defeat TRS as they have found an alternative in BJP. Had the TRS been sincere in helping people in GHMC overcome the nightmare of rains and floods, the State government would have held elections after providing relief to all affected. However, the elections were announced even as the people were just coming to terms with the situation left behind by nature’s fury compounded with human failure, Mr. Sanjay, who is also an MP from Karimnagar, said. Accusing TRS of using the flood relief amount for contesting the election, he said the Rs. 10,000 per affected family relief assistance did not reach a majority of the affected and instead landed in the hands of TRS candidates for spending in GHMC polls. Further, the ruling party had also resorted to booth capturing and got issued midnight order to count ballots with other than the cross-arrow mark (swastik) as a ploy to rig votes. On the campaigning by several national leaders of the party as also those from other states, Mr. Sanjay said BJP takes every election with equal importance irrespective of whether it is a local body election or Parliament. He explained that the party had used social media platforms in the GHMC poll campaigning effectively by reaching two lakh people with the help of 1,000 WhatsApp groups and another 10 lakh reached with the help of Twitter and Facebook. Besides, party activists had also distributed its manifesto to 5 lakh homes directly, the BJP leader said. He reiterated that BJP was ready to cooperate with the State government in the matter of development provided the latter kept politics aside. He suggested the TRS to stop the appeasement of one section and instead focus on betterment of living standards.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bjp-would-have-won-100-seats-with-more-time-bandi-sanjay/article33262102.ece
06 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||BJP to take up ‘bias’ of police, SEC with Central leadership||After the party’s stupendous show in the GHMC elections, the BJP State leadership has plans to intensify its attack on the Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) government towards expanding its reach to every section and its presence to every corner with the active assistance from the Central leadership. To begin with, the State leadership has decided to present a report to the Central leadership, particularly Union Home Minister Amit Shah, on the alleged bias of the police, State Election Commission and other officials against BJP, to help the ruling party. State BJP president Bandi Sanjay Kumar would leave for New Delhi on Sunday evening with the progress card of the party in Telangana. During the Delhi visit, Mr. Sanjay, according to BJP leaders here, has plans to meet Mr. Shah, party president J.P. Nadda, Union ministers Prakash Javadekar and Smriti Irani and other leaders to thank them for campaigning for candidates in GHMC election. Mr. Sanjay is likely explain the strides made by the party in GHMC and also a road map for party’s further growth in TS with the goal of coming to power in the next Assembly elections. The party had only 10.34% vote share in the 2016 elections when it had contested the GHMC elections in alliance with TDP and won four wards. This time, its tally is up to 48 with vote share of 35.56% against 35.81% of TRS with a difference of mere 0.25%. During the GHMC election management committee meeting of the party held here on Saturday, in which the newly-elected corporators also participated, senior leaders of the party vowed to work with the agenda to win the next Assembly elections. The forthcoming elections to Graduate Constituencies MLC seats and the by-election to Nagarjunasagar Assembly seat following the death of sitting TRS legislator Nomula Narsimhaiah are being seen as opportunities to expand the party further, a senior party leader said. Before leaving for Delhi in the evening, Mr. Sanjay and other senior leaders of the party have decided to perform special puja in Bhagyalaxmi temple at Charminar on Sunday along with the newly-elected corporators. Meanwhile, former MP M. Vijayashanti is expected to join BJP in the presence of party president J.P. Nadda in Delhi on Monday. The joining of former minister A. Chandrasekhar is also likely to happen in a few days.  The elections to Graduate Constituencies and the by-election to Nagarjunasagar Assembly seat are opportunities to expand the party further. Party senior leader||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bjp-to-take-up-bias-of-police-sec-with-central-leadership/article33262103.ece
06 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||AIMIM to decide on Mayor today||The All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen MLAs, MLCs and senior leaders will meet at the party office on Sunday to discuss its action plan in the election of Mayor and Deputy Mayor of Hyderabad. Addressing a press conference after a meeting of newly-elected corporators of the party, its president and Hyderabad MP Asaduddin Owaisi shot down the gains of BJP in GHMC polls as “temporary” which will not be repeated in the long run. The results will not be the same for BJP in next Assembly elections, he said, adding that the AIMIM will strive to scuttle BJP’s path of further progress. ‘KCR to review’ Admitting that the BJP had gained in GHMC polls, Mr. Owaisi said the party’s progress will not only be stopped by the AIMIM but the TRS whose chief K. Chandrasekhar Rao was a formidable political figure of the south. Mr. Rao will look into what went wrong for the TRS which resulted in gain for the BJP, and take remedial measures. The AIMIM leader said the BJP actually fared badly in 34 of 44 divisions that AIMIM contested in Hyderabad Parliamentary constituency represented by him. The AIMIM won 33 divisions which was the same as in the 2016 GHMC polls. This was despite BJP’s intense campaign against the AIMIM in Old City but the voters gave the former party a fitting reply. Winning 44 of the 51 divisions that the party contested overall, the AIMIM had the highest strike rate by any political party. Mr. Owaisi said the AIMIM will contest elections pan-India, except Assam and Kerala. In Assam, the AIMIM will not contest because the All India United Democratic Front was working for minorities and, in Kerala, the Indian Union Muslim League was active. He also said the AIMIM will contest Assembly elections in both West Bengal and Tamil Nadu. The party will soon contact its supporters in West Bengal to make a beginning. In Tamil Nadu, the AIMIM had already contested one seat in the last Assembly elections. It was the political compulsion of AIMIM to contest elections anywhere in the country. The party was not concerned about victory or defeat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/aimim-to-decide-on-mayor-deputy-today/article33262093.ece
06 December 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Son’s torchlight burns down mother’s car||In a heart-burning case, dummy nomination by the son led to his mother’s defeat in the BN Reddy Nagar division in the GHMC elections. TRS candidate M. Laxmi Prasanna lost by a narrow margin of 32 votes to BJP candidate M. Lachi Reddy. Interestingly, Ms. Laxmi Prasanna’s son Ranjit Goud, who was contesting as an independent candidate, secured 39 votes. The votes he never sought could have well gone in her favour. Backup backfires Mr. Goud apparently filed his nomination as an independent as a backup to his mother lest the nomination was declined for some reason. Apparently, another reason was to obtain an additional pass for campaigning and counting. Though he was campaigning for his mother throughout, he had not expected people to vote for him. One of his followers admitted that some people, who were not familiar with the candidates but wanted to vote for someone belonging to their own caste might have ended up voting for him. A few other voters might have preferred not to put the stamp in favour of any political party and chosen an independent candidate instead. Big little difference Poll results revealed that Ms Laxmi Prasanna, who is the sitting corporator, polled 10,406 votes while the winner Lachi Reddy polled 10,438 votes. Ranjit Goud was one of the four independents on the list and he secured 39 votes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/sons-torchlight-burns-down-mothers-car/article33262096.ece
06 December 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Medico found dead in her flat||Petrified body of a PG medical student was found in her apartment at Prakash Nagar of Begumpet here on Friday. G Jhansi (35), a first year student of bio-medicine at Gandhi Medical College, died after hanging herself from a ceiling fan. Begumpet ACP Naresh Reddy said that the victim resorted to the extreme step as she was under depression for personal reasons and was also upset as she was not getting a match of her liking. A native of Narsampet in Warangal Rural, Jhansi completed her MBBS from a private university in Russia and practised at a private hospital in Warangal before she got into the post-graduation course in Gandhi Medical College. For the past six months she was living with two of her friends in a rented apartment here and was not in contact with her parents, who reportedly forced her to get married, Mr. Reddy said. “They (Jhansi’s) parents didn’t even know where she was staying,” he said. In the wee hours of October 2, Jhansi sent her current location coordinates to her nephew Sumanth who also lives in Hyderabad. Message “He was surprised by her sudden message and went to her college, where the dean told him that his aunt was suffering from depression and did not attend college for the past two days,” the officer said. Further, Sumanth tracked the location she sent and went there. “Despite repeated knocks, as there was no response, he broke open the door only to find his aunt in a shocking state and alerted the police, his mother and other relatives,” Mr. Reddy said. A team was sent to the spot, who shifted her body to Osmania General Hospital morgue for autopsy. A note, affixed to a wall, purportedly left behind by the victim, cited: No one is responsible for my death. Police suspect that the incident might have taken place in the little hours of October 2 as the putrefaction process of her dead body began. Her friends were not staying in the house as one of them tested positive for Coronavirus. Based on the complaint lodged by Jhansi’s nephew Sumanth, a case under Section 174 (suspicious death) of Cr.PC was by the Begumpet police and a probe is on.  (There is always someone to listen at: +914066202000 in case of any emotional breakdown at this Hyderabad-based suicide intervention centre, Roshni)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/medico-found-dead-in-her-flat/article33262105.ece
06 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Single judge to hear SEC’s plea tomorrow||The Telangana High Court on Saturday disposed of the writ appeal filed by the State Election Commission (SEC) by asking a single judge to hear the commission’s contentions on its circular declaring ballot papers with ‘distinguish mark’ as valid. The SEC moved the appeal by moving a House Motion challenging the single judge order suspending the circular issued by it. A Bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy heard the appeal. Senior counsel G. Vidyasagar Rao, appearing for the SEC, requested the Bench to direct the single judge to take up its petition as the first case on Monday. Earlier the SEC issued a circular on Thursday, a day before counting of votes for GHMC elections, directing the poll officials to treat all ballot papers having ‘distinguish mark’ other than arrow cross-mark (swastik symbol) stamp as valid. Two persons belonging to BJP moved a House Motion in HC challenging the circular. A single judge suspended the circular after hearing the contentions of the SEC and the petitioners, instructing the SEC to file a detailed counter affidavit on the matter. The SEC filed an appeal by way of House Motion questioning the single judge order. The Division Bench, declining to pass any direction over the writ appeal, asked the single judge to hear the SEC’s contentions by taking up their petition as the first case on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/single-judge-to-hear-secs-plea-tomorrow/article33262086.ece
06 December 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||TDP decimated in Hyderabad||The decimation of the Telugu Desam Party is all but completed with the just concluded election to the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation. The yellow party which gave B forms to its nominees for 106 of the 150 divisions registered a blank in the results that were announced on Friday. What's more. A major chunk of these candidates are said to have forfeited their security deposits. The TDP's tally fell from 45 seats in GHMC polls of 2009 to two in the 2016 elections and the party could not make any gains during the elections to rural and urban local bodies that followed. The result in the GHMC polls is seen as almost an end of the road for the TDP in Telangana by a section of leaders within the party as also those following the political developments since the formation of the State. The party which suffered a series of reverses after several top leaders defected to other parties raised eyebrows by fielding candidates in more than 100 divisions. Senior leaders justified the move claiming that these nominees volunteered to contest the polls on TDP's behalf and that there was change in the voters' minds since the last elections. The claims however stood belied as the party nominees could not secure their deposits even in areas where it perceived its presence to be impressive. The results however were otherwise as the TRS retained its hold in areas like Kukatpally dominated by people with AP roots while the BJP emerged a favourite for this section in LB Nagar, Uppal and Malkajgiri segments. Senior leaders are blaming the sudden decision of the government to go to polls as the party did not get adequate time to prepare for the polls. But few recall how the party fared poorly in the previous polls in 2016 when it bagged only two seats in spite of hectic campaign by top leadership headed by TDP president N. Chandrababu Naidu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tdp-decimated-in-hyderabad/article33262087.ece
06 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||T-Hub, La Trobe varsity collaborate to help Australian startups||Start-up incubator T-Hub and Australia’s La Trobe University have forged a partnership to provide startups from Down Under access to Indian customers, new business opportunities and a deeper understanding of the innovation ecosystem in India. Under the partnership, two growth stage Australian startups have been selected for the second stage of a Global Market Accelerator Programme. La Trobe University has launched the programme, in five countries, for the benefit of Australian startups, while AusIndustry, Victoria State Office, is funding it It is a two-phase programme consisting of an online ‘feasibility study’ for eight weeks and a six-month incubation opportunity with T-Hub. A release said after a rigorous evaluation process by subject matter experts from T-Hub and La Trobe University four startups Treiner, TBH Pets, Anidra, and Tekuma were selected for the first phase, eight week component. After the eight weeks of intervention, a panel of mentors selected Anidra and TBH Pets for the second phase. In the second phase, T-Hub will execute the acceleration programme for six months and the startups will need to undergo intensive training. The incubator will provide soft-landing measures such as mentoring, co-working space and product analysis to adapt the product or solution to the local market and establish strong connects with the customer and the investment community. T-Hub CEO Ravi Narayan said “Hyderabad is playing a major role in attracting not only larger brands but also startups to India owing to Telangana's reputation in ease of doing business, extended support and the world-class level of infrastructure. T-Hub's partnership with La Trobe is an important milestone in the growing collaboration in innovation between India and Australia.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/t-hub-la-trobe-varsity-collaborate-to-help-australian-startups/article33262208.ece
06 December 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Results show anger against KCR: Cong.||Congress leaders have termed the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) success and Congress’ poor performance in the GHMC elections as a temporary phase and said people expressed their anger against the TRS government. Addressing a separate press conferences CLP leader Bhatti Vikramarka, MP Komatireddy Venkat Reddy, MLC T. Jeevan Reddy, MLA T. Jagga Reddy, AICC secretary Madhu Yashki, former Ministers Ponnala Lakshmaiah and Marri Shashidhar Reddy said the result clearly showed that TRS was rejected by people. They claimed that the AIMIM and the BJP fought on religious plank while the TRS simply followed them to avoid the development agenda. Mr. Bhatti said people would realise the danger of communalism soon and the Congress would continue to focus on the development issues and question the government’s failures unlike the BJP that raked up communal feelings. Mr. Komatireddy attributed the TRS loss to the LRS scheme and demanded that the government withdraw the scheme immediately. He also demanded that the government start financial distribution to flood-affected people immediately as promised or else they would lay siege to Pragati Bhavan. Rythu Bandhu Mr. Jeevan Reddy said the government had not released Rythu Bandhu funds even though the rabi season had started. The money would have come immediately if there had been elections, he said. The Maharashtra government had announced Rs. 10,000 per acre to farmers who lost crop in the floods but the Telangana government did not even estimate the loss.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/people-angry-with-kcr-cong/article33262104.ece
06 December 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Man kills wife for not cooking food on time||A man strangled his wife to death at Meerpet on Friday night after she failed to cook food on time. After returning from work, the accused, Bodiga Srinu (45), a lorry driver from Prasanthi Nagar, picked up a heated argument with his wife, Bodiga Jayamma (40), sweeper, and strangled her with the saree frill, as his dinner was not ready, police said. On Friday, both Jayamma and her adopted son went to their relatives’ marriage at Kongara, while Srinu went to Sarwel near Samsthan Narayanpur to attend another marriage. After returning home, the accused asked his wife to prepare dinner as he was in a hurry to go to work. A few minutes later, when he found that the food was not ready, he picked up an argument with Jayamma and killed her.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/man-kills-wife-for-not-cooking-food-on-time/article33262211.ece
06 December 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Congress submits RTI application with SEC, seeks poll CCTV footage||AICC spokesperson Sravan Dasoju filed an RTI application with the State Election Commission (SEC) seeking booth-wise CCTV footage of the GHMC elections held on December 1 in view of the “suspicious rise” in the polling percentage in the last one hour. He sought footage and also the web casting details right from the beginning of voting until the completion of voting of each polling station of 150 divisions of GHMC. He also sought total number of polled votes in each booth of the 150 divisions apart from total number of votes polled with non-Swastik symbol or any other symbol or mark. Mr. Sravan said it was surprising to see the poll percentage going up to 60% and even 90% in certain areas of Old City. He expressed concerns over the sudden rise of this poll percentage, which spiked to 50% in just one hour from 38% reported until 5 p.m. “I doubt the statistics released by the SEC. When there were no voters coming to the polling stations and the staff were taking a nap, how come suddenly the poll percentage went up?” he asked.  I doubt the statistics released by the SEC. When there were no voters at polling stations and the staff were taking a nap, how come suddenly the poll percentage went up?   I doubt the statistics released by the SEC. When there were no voters at polling stations and the staff were taking a nap, how come suddenly the poll percentage went up?||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/congress-submits-rti-application-with-sec-seeks-poll-cctv-footage/article33262095.ece
06 December 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Former Minister Kamatam Ram Reddy passes away||Senior politician and former Revenue Minister in erstwhile Andhra Pradesh Kamatam Ram Reddy passed away in the early hours of Saturday at his residence in the city. The 83-year-old leader from Ranga Reddy district was ailing for some time and died of old-age related issues. He represented the Parigi constituency thrice but was not politically active for almost a decade. He was with the Congress before joining the BJP in 2014, when he was denied ticket by his former party. He lost the elections securing just 13,000 votes. He joined the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) just before the 2018 Assembly elections in the presence of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao but did not play any active role. Mr. Reddy served in the cabinets of Jalagam Vengala Rao, Nedurumalli Janardhan Reddy and Kotla Vijayabhasker Reddy, handling important portfolios like Civil Supplies and Revenue. He was first elected from Parigi as an Independent in 1967 and later as Congress candidate in 1972 and 1989. He was elected as a Member of the Legislative Council (MLC) in 1980. He was the Chief Whip in 1968 and was inducted in Jalagam Vengala Rao’s cabinet as the Civil Supplies Minister. Mr. Reddy returned as Marketing Minister in 1991 under Mr. Janardhan Reddy and later held the very powerful portfolio of Revenue in 1992 under Mr. Vijayabhasker Reddy. Mr. KCR recalled his association with the departed leader and conveyed condolences to the bereaved family.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/former-minister-kamatam-ram-reddy-passes-away/article33262107.ece
06 December 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Two held||The Anti Human Trafficking (AHT) Unit of Rachakonda on Friday evening apprehended two people running online prostitution. They also rescued a victim.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/two-held/article33262210.ece
06 December 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Meet on Rythu Bandhu (briefly)||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has convened a meeting of finance and agriculture officials on Monday to discuss the release of funds for the rabi instalment of Rythu Bandhu and distribution. Agriculture Minister S. Niranjan Reddy, Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar and Principal Secretary of finance and agriculture will be among those present, a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/meet-on-rythu-bandhu-briefly/article33262214.ece
06 December 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||TRS has paid the price for backing defections: Tammineni||The ruling TRS has paid a price in the just-concluded elections to the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) for weakening the main Opposition, Congress party, by encouraging defections unethically, thereby allowing the BJP to thrive on its failures and derive electoral mileage by playing ‘divisive politics’ at the hustings, said CPI (M) State secretary Tammineni Veerabhadram. “The TRS suffered a setback in the GHMC elections due to its own mistakes, misrule and failure to uphold the objectives of achieving statehood for Telangana,” he said, while addressing a press conference at Sundaraiah Bhavan here on Saturday. By winning four Lok Sabha seats in the State in the 2019 elections, the BJP had set warning bells ringing for the TRS, he said, adding that the BJP succeeded in encashing the resentment among people against the TRS dispensation in the GHMC polls by stoking ‘communal feelings’. He alleged that the TRS had supported the BJP-led Central government’s “anti-people policies” such as demonetisation and the GST until the last general elections. “It started opposing the BJP’s anti-farmer and anti-people policies, including the new farm laws and the proposed Electricity Amendment Bill, since it faced a perceived threat to its existence,” he said, alleging that the dual policies pursued by some regional parties such as the TDP in Andhra Pradesh and elsewhere in the country in sailing with the BJP proved disastrous for them. “The widespread opposition to the TRS’s Layout Regularisation Scheme, its failure to fulfil the promises made to the unemployed youth and implement the PRC for the State government employees have contributed to its setback in the GHMC polls,” he added. “It is high time all the secular forces wage a united fight against the communal forces to keep the divisive elements at bay,” he said, calling upon the TRS to participate in the agitation programmes to be held against the new agriculture laws as part of ‘Bharat Bandh’ called by the Farmers’ Front on December 8.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/trs-has-paid-the-price-for-backing-defections-tammineni/article33262213.ece
06 December 2020||December 06 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Star motivation||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/star-motivation/article33262207.ece
06 December 2020||New Delhi,||‘Fewer patients despite high pollution this year’||There is no “substantial increase” in the number of people visiting clinics and hospitals with respiratory problems after the city’s air quality started deteriorating this year, doctors of multiple hospitals and clinics said. In the past, more number of patients with respiratory problems visited healthcare facilities during the winter, when the air pollution is high. However, this year, it has varied as patients are not going to hospitals either due to fear of contracting the virus or of being tested COVID-19 positive if they go to a hospital with respiratory problems, doctors said. Masks, staying indoors However, doctors also said that a fewer people may be actually affected by pollution this year as people are using masks due to the pandemic. Also, people are staying indoors more due to COVID-19 restrictions. Despite many bigger hospitals being turned to COVID-19 facilities this year or other healthcare services being restricted, smaller clinics are also not witnessing the seasonal spike in the number of patients compared to previous years, according to doctors of at least four other smaller clinics. Interestingly, Delhi’s air was more polluted in November this year than 2019 and there were nine days when the air pollution was in the “severe” category. The spike in air pollution levels corresponded to an increase in visits by children to hospital emergency rooms for treatment of acute respiratory infections, according to a two-year-long study in Delhi by AIIMS and other hospitals from June 2017 to February 2019. “Due to the pandemic, fewer people are going to hospitals in general and even fewer to bigger hospitals. Every year, we see a rise in the number of patients when the pollution is high. But this year we are not seeing a similar rise,” N.N. Mathur, director of Kalawati Saran Children’s Hospital told The Hindu . He added that people are using masks due to the pandemic which is helping to prevent respiratory problems. AIIMS doctors said that their pulmonary department OPD services was not running in full capacity as it used to before the pandemic and hence, fewer people are visiting the hospital compared to last year. Most affected “Elderly people and children, who are the most affected by pollution, are staying indoors due to COVID-19 restrictions and schools being shut. Hence, they are not exposed to higher pollution levels outside their homes,” said Girish Tyagi, secretary of Delhi Medical Council. He too emphasised on the impact of masks. According to the World Health Organization, the combined effects of ambient (outdoor) and household air pollution cause about seven million premature deaths worldwide every year. This is largely due to increased mortality from stroke, heart disease, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, lung cancer and acute respiratory infections. Long-term exposure to outdoor and household air pollution contributed to over 1.67 million annual deaths from stroke, heart attack, and other diseases in India in 2019, according to the State of Global Air 2020 by the U.S.-based Health Effects Institute. Overall, air pollution is now the largest risk factor for death among all health risks, as per report. Sanjay Dhar, who runs a clinic in B.K. Dutt Colony, said, “When people are facing respiratory problems, many of them are scared that they might test COVID-19 positive and are trying to stay home. Others are scared of contracting it from a medical facility. Masks and indoor stays may also be helping to keep other respiratory ailments at bay.” Undertake study Shikha Yaduvanshi, who works at a New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC)-run clinic, also had a similar view, but said that some of her regular patients are contacting her over phone to get medicines, instead of coming to the clinic. Most of the doctors said that the government should undertake a study to find out whether people are actually less affected due to air pollution this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/fewer-patients-despite-high-pollution-this-year/article33261609.ece
06 December 2020||New Delhi,||Tribunal pulls up NHAI over green cover||The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) was pulled up by the National Green Tribunal (NGT) over inadequate steps to maintain green cover along highways to mitigate vehicular pollution. A Bench headed by NGT chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel noted the NHAI’s stand that the roads were constructed by concessionaires and it was their responsibility to comply with law. “If the NHAI in the course of its activities hires its agents, the liability of the principal does not end. The criminal as well as civil liability of NHAI and its highest officers under the environmental law to be prosecuted and to be required to pay compensation continues. Such inalienable duty cannot be abandoned on the specious plea that a contractor is being hired,” the Bench said. It also said: “Moreover, being public authorities, taking such plea shows lack of responsibility or lack of knowledge of law. Indifference to issues of environment affecting public health by a public authority can hardly be appreciated.” It also observed that compliance is expected from state public works departments and other authorities concerned. The directions came when the green panel was hearing a plea moved by NGO Society for Protection of Culture, Heritage, Environment, Traditions and Promotion of National Awareness, that sought execution of an earlier order pertaining to maintenance of green cover along highways.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/tribunal-pulls-up-nhai-over-green-cover/article33261613.ece
06 December 2020||New Delhi,||Akbar didn’t have sterling reputation, says Ramani||Journalist Priya Ramani on Saturday told a Delhi court hearing a criminal defamation complaint filed by former Union Minister M.J. Akbar against her that he did not have a ‘sterling reputation’ as claimed by him. Ms. Ramani, who had accused Mr. Akbar of sexual misconduct around 20 years ago, stated this through senior advocate Rebecca John during the final hearing of the matter. She claimed before the court that a number of women have accused Mr. Akbar of sexual misconduct and, by his own account, he was having a consensual relationship while he was married to someone else, which was not a sterling reputation. Twenty years ago Mr. Akbar had filed the complaint against Ms. Ramani for allegedly defaming him by accusing him of sexual misconduct around 20 years ago when he was a journalist. Ms. Ramani had said the allegations against Mr. Akbar, made in the wake of the #MeToo movement in 2018, were her truth and were made in the public good. She claimed in the court that many women had made allegations against Mr. Akbar but he chose to file the case against only Ms. Ramani. “He knew there were other women... he has admitted before the court about reading an article which carried allegations by several women,” she said. As the hearing remained inconclusive, the court will take up the matter on December 10. Mr. Akbar had filed the complaint against Ramani on October 15, 2018. He had resigned as Union Minister on October 17, 2018.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/akbar-didnt-have-sterling-reputation-says-ramani/article33261616.ece
06 December 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi’s air quality ‘severe’, likely to improve today||The air quality of Delhi and Noida was in the ‘severe’ category on Saturday and Gurugram’s was in the ‘very poor’ category, as per the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data. The national capital’s air quality is expected to improve on Sunday. “Air quality is likely to improve only marginally by Sunday within the ‘very poor’ category owing to slightly better ventilation conditions. The AQI is likely to further improve on December 7 and 8 due to better ventilation. So, further deterioration is not expected for the next three days,” said a statement by the government-run monitoring agency SAFAR. The wind speed remained slow allowing the accumulation of pollutants generated locally, V.K. Soni, head of the IMD’s environment research centre said. “Easterly winds carrying moisture also led to the formation of secondary particulate matter. All these factors together pushed the air quality in the ‘severe’ zone,” he said. However, Mr. Soni said, the air quality is likely to improve to the “poor” category by Monday. The contribution of stubble burning in neighbouring States to PM2.5, a chief pollutant, level in Delhi was estimated to be only 1% on Saturday. Also, the number of fire count in neighbouring States was only 296, as per SAFAR.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/delhis-air-quality-severe-likely-to-improve-today/article33261610.ece
06 December 2020||New Delhi,||Poor AQI due to issues ignored by CM: Cong.||Delhi Congress leader Haroon Yusuf on Saturday claimed the city’s air quality remained in the ‘very poor’ category, despite no stubble burning in neighbouring States, due to “internal causes that Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal refuses to admit”. Mr. Yusuf, who was the transport minister in the Sheila Dikshit government, claimed the Congress dispensation had created a clean and green Delhi, which became “heavily polluted under the Aam Aadmi Party rule”. No remedial measures Despite warnings by experts that major causes for the surging air pollution in Delhi are vehicular traffic, garbage, dusts from broken roads, demolition and construction sites, burning of wastes and pollutants from industrial units, Mr. Kejriwal has “steadfastly refused” to admit the ground reality and take remedial measures, alleged Mr. Yusuf.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/poor-aqi-due-to-issues-ignored-by-cm-cong/article33261614.ece
06 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Right to operate stone crushers not above right to life, says NGT||Following a plea against illegal operation of stone crushers in Haryana’s Mahendergarh, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) held that stone crushers cannot be allowed to operate in the absence of carrying capacity in terms of air quality. A Bench headed by NGT chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel said, “Precautionary principle has to be applied having regard to impact of air pollution on health. Right of citizens to breathe fresh air cannot be denied and right of operating stone crushers cannot get preference over and above the right to life on specious plea that the stone crushers were set up as per sitting parameters allowed by the State without study of impact of the carrying capacity.” Tribunal to CPCB The tribunal also directed a joint committee along with the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) to take steps in terms of a July 2019 order, with respect to the carrying capacity of the area and the health impact of the operation of stone crushers on the residents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/right-to-operate-stone-crushers-not-above-right-to-life-says-ngt/article33261617.ece
06 December 2020||December 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Double whammy||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/double-whammy/article33261612.ece
06 December 2020||Ghaziabad,||A field day for Rakesh Tikait||Rakesh Tikait saunters beneath the Delhi-Meerut flyover on NH 9 like he is strolling in his fields in Sisauli village in Muzaffarnagar. The national spokesperson of Bhartiya Kisan Union is one of the many farmer leaders participating in the ongoing negotiations with the government. He is the younger son of Mahendra Singh Tikait, who once made the BKU the voice of farmers in north India. Today, it has been fragmented into 50 odd factions with the Tikait group holding on to its influence on farmers in west U.P. Well-informed about the demands of the electronic media, he keeps shifting on tractors to give bytes to newspersons. And when the Ghaziabad officials arrive to negotiate, he educates them on where Delhi ends and Uttar Pradesh begins. Many see him close to senior BJP leader Rajnath Singh. When one asks whether he was disappointed that Mr. Singh was missing from the government panel, Mr. Tikait nods. ‘Long struggle’ “It’s the government’s decision. He might join at a later stage. Abhi to lamba chalega (It will go on for a long time),” he predicts. He quickly clarifies that the BKU was not speaking for the government. “It seems the government is paving the way for agro-industries and is looking at farmers as labour. We are staring at the privatisation of agriculture,” he says. “The government is trampling on what is essentially a State subject. When we talk of writing minimum support price in the law, we are told MSP is a separate issue.” On the slow mobilisation in western U.P. in comparison to Haryana and Punjab, Mr. Tikait says, “In Haryana and Punjab, farmers are comparatively freer during this period. Also, the lack of rail transport has resulted in slow mobilisation.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/a-field-day-for-rakesh-tikait/article33262078.ece
06 December 2020||GUWAHATI,||BJP wins over 1,075 panchayat seats unopposed in Arunachal||The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party has won more than 1,075 panchayat and a couple of municipal council seats uncontested ahead of the local body polls in Arunachal Pradesh. The elections are scheduled on December 22. Citing the State Election Commission, the Arunachal Pradesh BJP unit on Saturday said the party won 75 zilla parishad member (ZPM), more than 1,000 gram panchayat member (GPM) and two municipal council seats unopposed. According to a party statement, 11 ZPMs were elected unopposed from Upper Subansiri district, seven from Kra Daadi, six each from Lower Subansiri, Kamle and Kurung Kumey, and five each from West Kameng, East Kameng, Upper Siang and Changlang districts. Four BJP candidates were elected uncontested as ZPMs from Dibang Valley district, three each from Tawang, West Siang and Lower Dibang Valley, and one each from Papum Pare, Lepa Rada, Anjaw, Namsai, Tirap and Longding districts. Itanagar civic body The BJP also won two seats in the Itanagar Municipal Corporation unopposed after the scrutiny of nominations filed by the candidates. Arunachal Pradesh has 25 zilla parishads with 241 constituencies and 2,215 gram panchayats with a total of 8,436 seats. The State has two civic bodies — Itanagar and Pasighat — with 20 and eight wards respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/bjp-wins-over-1075-panchayat-seats-unopposed-in-arunachal/article33262079.ece
06 December 2020||GUWAHATI,||Meghalaya gives Rs. 100 cr. to pollution control panel||The Meghalaya government has transferred Rs. 100 crore to Central Pollution Control Board for restoration of environment damaged by unregulated rat-hole coal mining in the State, officials said. The amount was provided from Rs. 445 crore the State government had collected under the Meghalaya Environment Restoration and Protection Fund (MERPF), an account where 10% of the market value of coal per metric tonne was deposited from the transportation of coal that was extracted before the National Green Tribunal banned rat-hole mining in April 2014. The NGT has been advising the State government on the utilisation of the MERPF. A government spokesperson said the State government has so far sanctioned three projects for restoration of environment. One of these is being implemented by the Central Institute of Mine and Fuel Research for treating acidic water. The MERPF will also be utilised in tree plantation and closure of abandoned mines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/meghalaya-gives-rs-100-cr-to-pollution-control-panel/article33261629.ece
06 December 2020||Guwahati,||Campaigning for BTC polls’ first phase ends||Campaigning for the first phase of Bodoland Territorial Council election to 21 seats on December 7 ended on Saturday evening. All major political parties in Assam participated in the campaign to woo voters in the 40 constituencies of the council spread across Kokrajhar, Chirang, Baksa and Udalguri districts. Ten constituencies in Udalguri and 11 in Baksa will go to the polls in the first phase, in which 132 candidates are in fray. The second phase will take place on December 10.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/campaigning-for-btc-polls-first-phase-ends/article33261628.ece
06 December 2020||JAIPUR,||Rajasthan unveils amnesty schemes for mandi traders||Amid the farmers’ protest against the Centre’s agriculture sector laws, the Congress government in Rajasthan on Saturday brought two amnesty schemes providing relief to the Krishi Upaj Mandi traders and agro-processing units. The schemes provide exemption and interest waiver on mandi duty and other penalties. The interest waiver scheme has been implemented in the Krishi Upaj Mandis for 75% rebate on the interest payable in respect of mandi fee, allocation fee and other dues in order to facilitate early disposal of cases. Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot had earlier approved a proposal to waive mandi and farmers’ welfare cess for the purchase of pulses and oilseeds at the minimum support prices in the kharif season during 2020-21. Fruit, vegetable traders The amnesty schemes are set to provide relief to the traders of fruits and vegetables and agricultural produce markets as well as the owners of farm processing units. According to the official sources here, 75% exemption will be given on the deposit of the entire principal balance as on September 30, 2019, along with 25% of the interest due by December 31, 2020. For the agro-processing units, the outstanding mandi duty on sugar and agricultural commodities imported from outside the State between April 27, 2005, and December 31, 2019, will be waived to the extent of 75%, while 100% exemption will be provided on the interest and penalty. The official sources said that the owners of agro-processing units would be required to attach the copies of bills and other documents of imported agricultural commodities to their applications for exemption. The scheme can be availed till March 31, 2021.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/rajasthan-unveils-amnesty-schemes-for-mandi-traders/article33261631.ece
06 December 2020||Mumbai,||Mumbai-Nagpur e-way’s first phase will open on May 1: CM||Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Saturday said the first phase of the Mumbai-Nagpur Samruddhi Expressway from Nagpur to Shirdi will be thrown open to the public on May 1, 2021. The Chief Minister made the announcement after reviewing the work at Shivni-Rasulapur in Nandgaon-Khandeshwar taluka of Amravati district. “The Hinduhridaysamrat Balasaheb Thackeray Samruddhi Expressway will be the best in the country and in the next six months, the road up to Shirdi will be open to traffic,” Mr. Thackeray said. The stretch of the expressway at Amravati is 74 km long and Mr. Thackeray travelled six km on the stretch to check the quality and speed. Work on the project continued even during the COVID-19-induced lockdown, which is why most of it is complete, he said. “Maharashtra will be proud of the expressway. The first phase from Nagpur to Shirdi will be thrown open to public on May 1, 2021 and the entire project up to Mumbai will be completed in a year’s time,” he said. Mr. Thackeray also reviewed the stretch of the expressway in Vaijapur tehsil of Aurangabad district. “The State government is planning to make the stretch between Nagpur and Shirdi operational by May 1, and a 112-km stretch of this route lies in Aurangabad. The stretch is being built by two companies and nearly half of the work has been completed,” a district official said. The eight-lane, 701-km-long expressway, being built at the cost of Rs. 55,000 crore, will pass through 10 districts in the State, and is expected to cut travel time between Mumbai and Nagpur to eight hours from 18 hours. The Chief Minister was accompanied by State Ministers Eknath Shinde, Yashomati Thakur, Sanjay Rathod and other senior officials during the visit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/mumbai-nagpur-e-ways-first-phase-will-open-on-may-1-cm/article33261547.ece
06 December 2020||Mumbai,||Temperature dips to 18.4°C in Mumbai||With Mumbai recording the season’s lowest minimum temperature at 18.4 degrees Celsius on Saturday, and most other parts of Maharashtra also witnessing an overall drop in the mercury levels, it could be an onset of winter, an official from the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. Cyclones and severe depressions in the Bay of Bengal had delayed the arrival of winter in the State, the official said. “With their weakening, several regions in the State have recorded a drop in the minimum temperature. This could be the beginning of the winter season in the State,” he said. The IMD’s Santacruz observatory on Saturday recorded a minimum temperature of 18.4 degrees Celsius, which is the lowest so far this season. The departure from normal temperature was by 1.4 degrees Celsius. The observatory on Friday recorded a minimum temperature of 19 degrees Celsius, a drop by one degree Celsius from the normal, the official said. On Saturday, Parbhani in Marathwada region recorded 10.6 degrees Celsius, Gondia in Vidarbha region 10.5 degrees Celsius, Nashik in north Maharashtra 11.1 degrees Celsius, and Satara and Pune in western Maharashtra 13 and 11.5 degrees Celsius respectively. The highest departure in temperature was recorded at Parbhani, where it dropped four degrees Celsius below normal, he said. Winter plays a crucial role in the growth of rabi crops, such as jowar, wheat and green gram and also triggers flowering in mango trees. “For good flowering of mango trees, there needs to be a drop in temperature. This will help the trees bear fruits from February onwards and can be harvested from April in Maharashtra,” an agriculture expert said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/temperature-dips-to-184c-in-mumbai/article33261548.ece
06 December 2020||Mumbai,||Victim’s kin to get Rs. 62 lakh eight years after accident||The Motor Accident Claims Tribunal has awarded a compensation of Rs. 62 lakh to the family of a 30-year-old woman who died in 2017 owing to injuries sustained in an accident in 2012. S.C. Chandak, the chairman of the tribunal, has directed the car’s owner and the insurance company to jointly or severally pay the amount at 7.5% interest per annum from June 2014, the date of application, to the victim’s parents. At midnight on March 25, 2012, the car rammed into an autorickshaw in Malad and the driver and occupants of the auto: Charu Khandal, her friend and her sister suffered serious injuries. Around Rs. 20 lakh was spent on Khandal’s treatment for cervical spinal-cord injuries, which led to quadriplegia. She was earning Rs. 30,000 a month and claimed a compensation of Rs. 5 crore on account of permanent disability. She died on January 17, 2017 and her family impleaded themselves as the applicants to the claim. No one appeared for the driver and the insurer said it was a case of contributory negligence. The company also said the driver was under the influence of alcohol and it breached the terms and conditions of the insurance policy. The 37-page judgment mentioned the break-up of the compensation: loss of dependency: Rs. 38,55,600, conventional heads: Rs. 1,21,000, medical bills: Rs. 20,27,910, attendant charges: Rs. 1,25,000, toiletries: Rs. 50,000, and conveyance: Rs. 40,000. The total amount came up to Rs. 62,19,510, which was rounded off to Rs. 62,20,000.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/victims-kin-to-get-rs-62-lakh-eight-years-after-accident/article33261550.ece
06 December 2020||Mumbai,||TRP scam: Republic TV official gets bail||A court on Saturday granted bail to Republic TV’s western region distribution head, Ghanshyam Singh, who was arrested last month in the alleged TRP rigging scam. Mr. Singh, who is also assistant vice-president at Republic Media Network, had been arrested on November 10. The court also granted bail to Vishal Bhandari, a former employee of Hansa Research Agency, who was arrested on October 8. The order was passed by judge D.S. Deshmukh. The police have arrested a total of 12 people in the case so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/trp-scam-republic-tv-official-gets-bail/article33261545.ece
06 December 2020||Navi Mumbai,||Firefighter dies while battling blaze in Taloja||A firefighter died while dousing a blaze at Mody Chemical Industry in Taloja MIDC on Friday night. According to the police, Taloja MIDC’s fire team received the alert at 12.05 a.m. and found the one-storey building engulfed in flames when they reached the spot. Balu Deshmukh (32), one of the firefighters from the Ambernath fire brigade, who was called in for assistance, died battling the fire. Four others, including Taloja MIDC fire chief Deepak Dorugade, were admitted to hospital with breathing problems. Deshmukh was declared dead on arrival. “There were nine chlorine tunnels with 900 kg of chlorine each. Priority was given to protect them from catching fire as chlorine gas is poisonous and doesn’t easily dissolve in air,” a fire officer said. By 7 a.m., the fire was brought under control, and by 11 a.m., the cooling process was completed, senior police inspector Kashinath Chavan said. An accidental death case has been registered and the police are trying to ascertain the cause of the fire.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/firefighter-dies-while-battling-blaze-in-taloja/article33261549.ece
06 December 2020||Washington,||Judge orders U.S. government to reinstate DACA programme||A U.S. judge ordered the Trump administration on Friday to fully reinstate a programme that protects from deportation immigrants who came to the country illegally as children. The administration must allow newly elligible immigrants to apply to the so-called DACA programme, Judge Nicholas Garaufis of the U.S. District Court in Brooklyn wrote. Over the summer, the administration had issued a memo limiting the programme to those who were already enrolled. Former President Barack Obama instituted DACA by executive order in 2012 to help some of the more than 10 million people estimated to be living in America without documentation. DACA protected an estimated 7,00,000 people known as Dreamers, offering protection at renewable two-year periods, including authorization to work. It applied to people who were brought into the United States illegally as children and then grew up here. For many it is the only country they have ever known. DACA stands for Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals. As part of his crackdown on all kinds of immigration, Mr. Trump moved to end the programme in 2017, calling it unconstitutional. The case ended up in the U.S. Supreme Court, which ruled in June that the Trump administration had not followed proper administrative procedures to end the policy. But in response, the Department of Homeland Security reinstated it only partially. It limited DACA to those already enrolled, rather than allow new applicants as well. And it cut the length of DACA permit renewals to one year, rather than the two years the programme had allowed. On Friday, Judge Garaufis said Homeland Security must announce the full reinstatement of DACA on its website by Monday. More than 3,00,000 new applicants could now be eligible for DACA, the Center for American Progress think tank said. “This is a really big day for DACA recipients and immigrant young people,” said Karen Tumlin, director of the Justice Action Center, who litigated the class-action case. Immigration is a hot button issue in the US, and Congress over the years has failed repeatedly to pass reform legislation dealing with the millions of people living in the country without authorization. Prospects for Dreamers to live and work in the US permanently, rather than just with renewable permits, remain unclear. President-elect Joe Biden has vowed to restore DACA when he takes office in January.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/judge-orders-us-government-to-reinstate-daca-programme/article33261258.ece
06 December 2020||December 06 2020 00:00 IST,||How Australia-China ties hit a new low||“Repugnant,” was how Australia’s Prime Minister Scott Morrison earlier this week described a tweet by Zhao Lijian, a spokesperson for China’s Foreign Ministry, who shared a doctored image showing an Australian soldier holding a knife to the throat of an Afghan child. The image, created by a Chinese designer who calls himself a “wolf-warrior artist”, was shared on Twitter by Mr. Zhao, one of China’s most famous “wolf-warrior” diplomats — the name borrows from an eponymous and widely popular patriotic Chinese action film — who is no stranger to controversy, having angered U.S. President Donald Trump earlier this year by suggesting the U.S. military had brought the coronavirus to Wuhan. War crimes His aim was to bring attention to the reported war crimes of Australian soldiers, recently brought to light in an investigation by the Australian Defence Force (ADF), which found not only that 25 soldiers were involved in the murders of 39 Afghan civilians between 2009 and 2013, but senior officers were encouraging junior soldiers to kill captives in cold blood in order to “blood them”. This was not, however, just a storm over one tweet. The trading of barbs last week was only the latest episode of a dramatic plunge in a relationship between two countries that was, until recently, broadly dominated by robust trading ties. For Australia, a close American ally, the emergence of China as its biggest trading partner has necessitated a delicate balancing act between trade and security. The trade dependence on China has grown rapidly, with Beijing accounting for as much as 39% of exports, mainly driven by natural resources such as iron ore, and 27% of imports, in 2019-20, according to the Australian Bureau of Statistics. China’s share of total trade has only grown this year, but that hasn’t stopped relations from drifting to the brink. Cracks began to show from 2018, when Australia blacklisted Huawei and ZTE from being involved in the rollout of its 5G networks. That same year, Australia passed a new foreign interference law that was widely being seen as aimed at China, with officials in Canberra pointing the finger at increasingly widespread Chinese influence operations primarily targeting the Chinese-Australian community, a claim dismissed by Beijing and its State media as hype tinged with racism. The cracks widened into a gaping rift this year when Australia in April called for an independent inquiry into the origins of the COVID-19 pandemic and criticised both China and the World Health Organization (WHO) for the initial handling of the coronavirus outbreak, a move that enraged China and brought an increasingly troubled relationship into open discord. Trade dispute Beijing retaliated with a slew of punitive economic measures, banning meat imports from four Australian plants and imposing an 80.5% tariff on barley, a major Australian export, in May. This broadened into a wider trading dispute, with Australia initiating its own anti-dumping investigations into Chinese steel and preventing Chinese company Mengniu Dairy from acquiring Australia-based Lion Dairy & Drinks, which owns some of the country’s most well-known brands. China then effectively banned Australian coal imports, leaving ships carrying millions of tonnes of coal stranded at Chinese ports for months awaiting clearance, and in November imposed tariffs of 107.1% to 212.1% on Australian wine labels, which have looked at China as an increasingly important market. China and Australia being among the 15 countries that signed the landmark Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP) agreement in November mattered little to declining ties, which took another turn for the worse that same month after a statement from Australia, New Zealand, Canada, the U.K. and the U.S. — dubbed the “Five Eyes” intelligence alliance — expressing concern over developments in Hong Kong. “No matter if they have five eyes or 10 eyes, if they dare to harm China’s sovereignty, security and development interests, they should beware of their eyes being poked and blinded,” thundered the same “wolf-warrior” spokesperson, Mr. Zhao. The statement on Hong Kong — touching the usual Chinese nerve of “internal affairs” — was followed by Mr. Zhao’s now infamous tweet and Foreign Ministry statements expressing concern over Australian actions in Afghanistan. Asked if the statements meant a shift in China’s stance on “internal affairs” of others, the Foreign Ministry said, “It is no longer a matter of the internal affairs of any country, and it should be strongly condemned by all people with conscience around the whole world.” The Communist Party-run Global Times put it in less diplomatic language: “Western people are very unaccustomed to criticism from Chinese people,” an editorial said. “The West seems like a tiger that no one dares touch its backside.” Negative views China, particularly angered by the COVID-19 inquiry call, has said the ball is in Australia’s court, while in Australia, negative public opinion about China, amid concerns over its assertiveness and on foreign interference, is growing. A Pew Research Center annual survey in October found negative views on China increased the most last year in Australia, where 81% have unfavourable views, up 24 points from the previous year. All of which has now left both sides scrambling to find a way back from the brink.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/how-australia-china-ties-hit-a-new-low/article33261249.ece
06 December 2020||Washington,||Trump orders U.S. to pull out most troops from Somalia||The Pentagon said on Friday it is pulling most U.S. troops out of Somalia on President Donald Trump’s orders, continuing a post-election push by Mr. Trump to shrink U.S. involvement in counterterrorism missions abroad. The Pentagon said in a statement that “a majority” of U.S. troops in Somalia will be withdrawn in early 2021. There are currently about 700 troops in that Horn of Africa nation, training and advising local forces in an extended fight against the extremist group al-Shabab, an affiliate of al-Qaida. Mr. Trump recently ordered troop drawdowns in Afghanistan and Iraq. General Mark Milley, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, had said on Wednesday that the future structure of the U.S. military presence in Somalia was still in debate. The adjusted U.S. presence, Gen. Milley said, would amount to “a relatively small footprint, relatively low cost in terms of number of personnel and in terms of money.” He provided no specifics but stressed that the U.S. remained concerned about the threat posed by al-Shabab, which he called “an extension of al-Qaida,” the extremist group that planned the September 11, 2001, attacks on the U.S. “They do have some reach and they could if left unattended conduct operations against not only U.S. interests in the region but also against the homeland,” he said. “So they require attention.” Noting that Somalia remains a dangerous place for Americans, he said that a CIA officer was killed there recently. The acting secretary of defense, Christopher Miller, made a brief visit to Somalia last week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/trump-orders-us-to-pull-out-most-troops-from-somalia/article33261254.ece
06 December 2020||KUWAIT,||Amid virus challenge, Kuwait holds election||Kuwait voted on Saturday for its National Assembly, the first election since the death of its longtime ruling Emir and as the oil-rich nation faces serious economic problems under the coronavirus pandemic. This tiny country’s hundreds of thousands of voters selected lawmakers for 50 seats in the parliament, the freest and most-rambunctious assembly in the Gulf Arab countries. However, Kuwait’s parliament has tamped down on opposition to its ruling Al Sabah family since the 2011 Arab Spring protests that saw demonstrators storm the chamber. Parliaments typically don’t serve out their full terms in the stalwart U.S. ally, but this one did. Kuwaitis voted across 102 schools in the nation, which is the size of the U.S. state of New Jersey. Authorities said masks and social distancing will be required due to the pandemic. Several schools will take those with active cases of the virus, with the sick first receiving permission from the government to vote. The vote came after the death in September of Kuwait’s ruler, the 91-year-old Sheikh Sabah Al Ahmad Al Sabah. Sheikh Nawaf Al Ahmad Al Sabah, 83, quickly took power without any opposition. The outgoing Parliament then approved Sheikh Nawaf’s choice for crown prince, Sheikh Meshal Al Ahmad Al Jaber, the 80-year-old deputy head of Kuwait’s National Guard.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/amid-virus-challenge-kuwait-holds-election/article33261251.ece
06 December 2020||Moscow,||Moscow starts inoculating vulnerable workers||Moscow on Saturday began vaccinating workers at high risk of becoming infected with the coronavirus at newly opened clinics across the city. Health officials said they had opened 70 coronavirus vaccine centres in the Russian capital that would initially offer jabs for health, education and social workers. “Citizens from the main risk groups who in connection with their professional activities come into contact with a large number of people can get vaccinated,” officials said. Russia was one of the first countries to announce the development of a vaccine, Sputnik V — dubbed after the Soviet-era satellite — in August but before beginning final clinical trials. It is currently in its third and final stage of clinical trials involving some 40,000 volunteers. Sputnik V’s developers last month said interim results had shown the vaccine was 95-percent effective and would be cheaper and easier to store than some alternatives. The jab uses two different human adenovirus vectors and is administered in two doses with a 21-day gap. The vaccine will be free to all Russian citizens and innoculation will be voluntary. Health officials on Saturday said that during the initial rollout in Moscow the jab would not be available to workers over 60, those with chronic diseases, and pregnant or breastfeeding women. They did not say when the vaccine would be available to the wider public.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/moscow-starts-inoculating-vulnerable-workers/article33261252.ece
06 December 2020||Havana,||Havana, Dec 5, 2020 (AFP) -||Dialogue over freedom of expression between Cuba’s government and artists who organised a rare protest last week hit an impasse on Friday as communist authorities accused some of them of being financed by the U.S. Cuba’s Culture Ministry said it would not meet the artist collective’s delegates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/havana-dec-5-2020-afp/article33261250.ece
06 December 2020||London,||London, Dec 5, 2020 (AFP) -||British Prime Minister Boris Johnson and EU chief Ursula von der Leyen will hold talks on Saturday to try to break the deadlock in post-Brexit trade deal negotiations. A deal is seen as essential to avoid deep disruption on both sides to economies already damaged by the coronavirus pandemic.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/london-dec-5-2020-afp/article33261256.ece
06 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Jharkhand’s joining ends GST compensation impasse||Jharkhand has accepted the alternative offered by the Centre to meet part of the GST compensation shortfall through a special borrowing window, the Finance Ministry said on Saturday. With Jharkhand’s acquiescence to the Centre’s proposed solution, all States and Union Territories have now excercised the option to receive part of their GST implementation dues for this year. The Centre had offered States the option of borrowing Rs. 1.1 lakh crore out of the estimated Rs. 2.35 lakh crore shortfall in compensation dues payable to States for this year. After initially asking States to undertake the borrowings themselves, the Centre had later offered to borrow on States’ behalf and lend it onwards. Over the past two weeks, most of the States that had had reservations with the Centre’s proposed arrangement, including Kerala, West Bengal and Punjab, had communicated their acceptance of Option-1. So far, Rs. 30,000 crore has been raised in five instalments through the special borrowing window operationalised late October. “The next instalment of Rs. 6,000 crore will be released to the States/UTs on December 7,” the Ministry said in a statement. Jharkhand will get Rs. 1,689 crore to meet the GST shortfall, with permission to borrow an additional Rs. 1,765 crore. All repayments for these special borrowings will be made from future collections of GST cess, whose validity has been extended beyond the originally envisaged sunset date of June 2022.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/jharkhands-joining-ends-gst-compensation-impasse/article33261244.ece
06 December 2020||Bengaluru,||‘Media & Entertainment set to create up to 3 lakh jobs a year’||The Media & Entertainment (M&E) industry in India currently stands where the IT sector was two decades ago, said Anil Pant, MD & CEO, Aptech Ltd. It is on the threshold of explosive growth and is set to offer large-scale employment opportunity, according to him. The M&E sector is set to grow 20-25% CAGR in the next 10 years, and is expected to create 2.7 lakh to 3 lakh jobs every year, 10 years from now, similar to what the tech sector did in its fast-growing years, said Mr. Pant. Over the last few years, Aptech had seen more than 80,000 media and entertainment vacancies every year and the company had been able to offer only 25,000 candidates. “There are over 700 recruiters, including blue-chip animation studios, entertainment and graphic design firms, ad agencies, consumer firms, online tutorials and IT firms scrambling for graphic designers, web designers, 2D/3D animators, 3D modelers, VFX experts, compositors, visualisers and pre/post-production executives,” he explained.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/media-entertainment-set-to-create-up-to-3-lakh-jobs-a-year/article33261233.ece
06 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Worst over for CVs: Aggarwal||The worst is over for the commercial vehicle (CV) sector, which expects to witness a good recovery in the coming year, said Vinod Aggarwal, CEO of VE Commercial Vehicles (VECV), a joint venture between Volvo Group and Eicher Motors. “As far as the industry is concerned, I think the worst period is behind us,” Mr. Aggarwal said in an interview. “Going forward, you will see things getting better as the sentiments have become positive in the economy. In Q2, the GDP contraction was less than what was earlier anticipated. CV industry is totally dependent on the economy and sentiments.” The VECV MD was speaking on the sidelines of the start of commercial operations at the JV’s new truck plant at Bagroda near Bhopal, Madhya Pradesh. Mr. Aggarwal noted that the truck segment had seen year-on-year volume growth in both October and November, albeit on a lower base. “Numbers are still low, but the decline has stopped. We are optimistic about 2021. We expect replacement demand is going to be very high. The volumes will be less than 2018-19, but better than 2019-2020.” In addition to pent-up replacement demand, Mr. Aggarwal said there was good demand for construction trucks, CNG trucks as well as from the e-commerce and haulage segments. Mr. Aggarwal said the new plant had been set up with the latest manufacturing technologies and based on ‘industry 4.0’ standards. “When the markets come back, we will have the adequate capacity for trucks... from the organization, technology, production and manufacturing quality... this plant is of strategic importance for us,” VECV’s Mr. Aggarwal added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/worst-over-for-cvs-aggarwal/article33261235.ece
06 December 2020||December 06 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Clients prefer large vendors’||Tech Mahindra reported a 3.3% year-on-year rise in revenue to Rs. 9,372 crore for the quarter ended September and also saw a 5.4% growth in profit before tax to Rs. 1,409.3 crore. Dwelling on the cost savings that the company had been able to achieve, MD and CEOC.P. Gurnanialso spoke about why clients prefer large system integrators. Excerpts:  There was a phase when U.S. clients seemed to prefer boutique firms or vendors with a local presence. Has that changed? People may have preferred a local boutique firm because they may have wanted to work and experiment together. “Oh, the colour black is not good. Let’s experiment with blue. If blue is not good, let’s do green together.” The visual part of digital drove the local participation. Now, projects are getting larger. It is no longer one launch and programme. You need a lot more capability. Take cybersecurity. In a new application, I would bring in cybersecurity from day zero. My earlier experience was a human will make an error, always open a phishing file, or bring in a new device, or change the policy on his computer. I had to visualise all of these scenarios, and still my application had to be efficient and secure. Larger [client] firms realise that a larger system integrator, or a larger player will be able to give them an end-to-end service. And, we also became smarter. We bought companies like Mad*Pow and The Born Group. They were digital natives. They were always locally available to clients. And, we retained their identity and character.  Technology customers are said to be cutting their flab. Will there be new zest for offshoring? There isn’t any fresh impetus to offshoring as a lever. But at the same time, we have noticed our clients looking at more of business than only IT transformation. That is why you would see a more cloud-centric wave. A client migrates to the cloud because to him or her, it doesn’t matter where the data centre is. And also, by experimentation, they have realised the cloud is more secure than his own data centre. Clients are talking about driving their own customer experience. Has COVID-19 offered the Indian IT industry another Y2k-like opportunity to get a foot in the door for new kinds of services? If the Time magazine had wanted a chief digital officer as Man of the Year for 2020, COVID-19 would be the choice, not a human. Now, does that mean it’s a Y2k moment? No. Because the pandemic offered us no fixed timeline for anything. Y2k was clearly a time bomb. ‘If you don’t fix this quaint tissue, you could be shutting down your organisation within a certain date.’ [It’s different now.] I put it in three buckets: run, change and grow. To run their operations, people had no choice. All of us had to figure out methods overnight because the lockdowns were forced on us. There was no advance warning for any given situation. So, we all improvised, working from home; we set up a central command centre and implemented cybersecurity policies that dare not be breached by our users. In Q2, TechM has shown a margin improvement and a higher PBT y-o-y. Where has this come from? Tech Mahindra’s subcontracting cost was high during April-June due to the acquisition of Cerium and Zen3. In Q2, there was a reduction in subcontracting cost. Improvements were of the order 410 basis points (bps) in EBIT margins of which cost management, including offshoring, utilisation, reductions in subcontractors contributed 160 bps. Earlier, if the growth we planned for did not happen, we had to deal with costs. We used this pandemic to resolve this equation once and for all. We redid the equation of subcontractors’ growth [linked to] profitability and brought in some very stringent controls on subcontractor hiring. We started using artificial intelligence-based tools to populate our operations dashboards. The result is I have far fewer subcontractors, [though] we have about 13% of our revenue coming from subcontractors. Two, we are no longer creating capacity without letting it go through a rule engine that uses data science to allocate resources very efficiently. The consequence is my growth, my hiring, capability building and skilling are more predictable.  The pandemic is not akin to the Y2k situation, because we have had no time to prepare for this sudden change||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/clients-prefer-large-vendors/article33261239.ece
06 December 2020||HYDERABAD,||Webinar to explore ties with Belgium on vaccine||A webinar exploring the prospects for greater collaboration between India and Belgium in various aspects of COVID-19 vaccines, from development, distribution to logistics, and featuring leaders from the fields of pharmaceuticals, life sciences and public health is being organised on December 8 by the Consulate General of Belgium, Chennai. Titled ‘Building partnerships between India and Belgium for the coherent dissemination of COVID-19 vaccines and therapeutics in Europe and the world,’ it comes amid many countries getting ready to approve vaccines in the weeks ahead, thus shifting the focus to issues such as priortising access, supply and distribution infrastructure as well as logistical challenges involved. Consul General of Belgium in Chennai Mark Van de Vreken said as leading global players in the fields of life sciences, vaccines and pharmaceuticals/ therapeutics, India and Belgium should be strategic partners in the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/webinar-to-explore-ties-with-belgium-on-vaccine/article33261231.ece
06 December 2020||New Delhi,||Maruti output rises 5.9% to 1.5 lakh units||The country’s largest carmaker Maruti Suzuki India on Saturday said its total production in November had increased 5.9% to 1,50,221 units. The company had produced a total of 1,41,834 units in the same month last year, Maruti Suzuki India (MSI) said in a regulatory filing. Passenger vehicles production stood at 1,46,577 units last month as compared with 1,39,084 units in November 2019, a growth of 5.38%. Production of mini cars comprising the Alto and S-Presso models climbed marginally to 24,336 units last month as against 24,052 units a year earlier. Manufacturing of compact cars WagonR, Celerio, Ignis, Swift, Baleno, Dzire rose 8.93% to 85,118 units.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/maruti-output-rises-59-to-15-lakh-units/article33261236.ece
06 December 2020||New Delhi,||PNB to hold roadshow for proposed QIP||Punjab National Bank (PNB) on Saturday said it would hold a roadshow for the proposed Rs. 7,000 crore qualified institutional placement (QIP) issue next week. The bank will be participating again in the non-deal roadshow and meeting prospective investors on December 7-8, PNB said in a regulatory filing. The bank has taken approval for raising Rs. 7,000 crore through Qualified Institutional Placement (QIP) route this fiscal. In a non-deal roadshow, nothing is for sale, a bank official said, adding it was an opportunity to discuss and develop interest in an upcoming offer. The bank has already taken approval from the board for raising Rs. 14,000 crore by way of Tier II, Additional Tier 1 (AT-1) bonds and QIP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/pnb-to-hold-roadshow-for-proposed-qip/article33261237.ece
06 December 2020||mumbai,||Angola invites India to mine diamonds||Angola has invited Indian companies to invest in diamond mining, the Gem & Jewellery Export Promotion Council said. Angola is the third-largest producer of diamonds in Africa and has only explored 40% of the diamond-rich territory, but has had difficulty in attracting foreign investment. “Angola is looking at foreign direct investment from Indian companies to realise the country’s potential,” Pratibha Parkar, Indian Ambassador to Angola, was quoted as saying.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/angola-invites-india-to-mine-diamonds/article33261240.ece
06 December 2020||new delhi,||OVL strikes oil in Colombia’s CPO-5 block||ONGC Videsh Ltd., the overseas investment arm of state-owned Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC), has made a ‘significant’ oil discovery in an onshore block in Colombia. OVL struck oil while drilling an appraisal well, ‘Indico-2,’ in CPO-5 block in Llanos Basin of Colombia, the company said. OVL is the operator in the block with 70% stake. Geopark Ltd., an independent oil and gas company focused in Latin America, has the remaining 30%. ‘Indico-2’ encountered a net pay of 147 feet which produced oil at 6,300 barrels per day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/ovl-strikes-oil-in-colombias-cpo-5-block/article33261241.ece
06 December 2020||new Delhi,||Tatas to sell MAP Coffee for Rs. 6.74 crore||Tata Consumer Products Ltd (TCPL) on Saturday said its Australia-based step-down subsidiary is selling the MAP Coffee Business to Buccheri Group for A$1.25 million (Rs. 6.74 crore). According to TCPL’s website, MAP Coffee was established in 2002 and supplied Australian cafes, restaurants and bars with a range of Italian and locally- roasted coffee. TCPL subsidiary Earth Rules Pty Ltd., Australia, entered into an agreement on December 5 for the sale.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/tatas-to-sell-map-coffee-for-rs-674-crore/article33261242.ece
06 December 2020||Sydney,||India eyes series win||The debate around the concussion-sub continues as a resurgent India takes on Australia in the second T20I here on Sunday. A win will give Virat Kohli’s men an unassailable 2-0 lead and also serve as a confidence-booster for the Test series. Following its victory on the back of concussion-sub Yuzvendra Chahal’s terrific bowling display, India will enter the game with a lot of confidence even though all-rounder Ravindra Jadeja’s batting lower down the order will be missed after he was ruled out of the series. India would expect a better performance from the top-order, especially senior opener Shikhar Dhawan, who has gone off the boil after the half-century in the first ODI. Kohli has made decent contributions and a solid effort from the skipper will go a long way in addressing India’s batting problems. The visitors will also be boosted by the news that rival captain Aaron Finch, who has been in fantastic form, may not be fully fit. For Australia, veteran Test specialist Nathan Lyon has been drafted into the T20 squad and it remains to be seen if he replaces Mitchell Swepson in the playing XI. Lyon could be used in PowerPlay the way India successfully employed off-spinner Washington Sundar in the opening T20I.  Match starts at 1.40 p.m. IST .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-eyes-series-win/article33261365.ece
06 December 2020||LOS ANGELES,||Short off-season won’t hurt Lakers, says Davis||Anthony Davis vows NBA champion Los Angeles Lakers will be ready for the grind of another campaign despite a short turnaround between its pre-season opener and capturing the crown. After finishing off Miami in the NBA Finals on October 11 after a COVID-19 pandemic-extended season, the Lakers face Los Angeles Clippers next Friday to launch the pre-season, with about six weeks less rest than usual. “It’s hard in a quick turnaround to play at a high level to compete for a title again but I think we have the players and staff to do so,” Davis said Friday in an internet news conference. “As a champion, you’re going to get everyone’s best shot. You have a target on your back. You’re going to find that motivation. We have a bunch of new guys who want to win a championship. I think we’ll be fine in that sense.” The 27-year-old power forward signed a five-year deal worth $190 million to remain with the Lakers, which also inked superstar LeBron James — who turns 36 on December 30 — to a two-year extension worth $85 million that keeps him in LA through the 2022-23 campaign. Praise for James “I was excited for him. It’s a hell of a deal,” Davis said. “To be getting that type of money going into your 18th year (in the NBA), it just doesn’t happen. “I’m happy to be playing along with him for three years and I’m not sure he’s going to be done after that.” Davis, a member of the 2012 US Olympic team, has been nagged by ankle, shoulder and knee injuries over eight NBA campaigns, seven with New Orleans before joining the Lakers last year, so he and James might see limited early action. “We’re going to talk with the trainers and the coaching staff and see what the best way is to approach it,” Davis said. “It is a quick turnaround. We have to make sure our bodies are ready so we’re able to repeat. We have to get our rest but at the same time be ready to go out there and compete.” While Lakers forward Jared Dudley declares, “I’m expecting AD to go for the MVP” this season, Davis is more concerned with staying healthy than any awards like Most Valuable Player and Defensive Player of the Year. “It’s hard for me to set goals — MVP, DPOY. I just kind of let that happen,” Davis said. “My goal is to be on the floor as much as possible and not get injured. It’s more like that and doing what I can to help the team win.” Davis did plenty of that last season, averaging 26.1 points, 9.3 rebounds, 3.2 assists, 2.3 blocked shots and 1.5 steals a game for the Lakers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/short-off-season-wont-hurt-lakers-says-davis/article33261605.ece
06 December 2020||Chennai,||‘Cummins biggest threat for India’||Former South African batsman Daryll Cullinan spoke to The Hindu about the upcoming Test series between Australia and India which begins with the Day-Night game in Adelaide on Dec. 17.  The most crucial aspect for India  How the top three batsmen cope. The Kookaburra ball does not do too much after the first 15 overs.  Biggest threat for India  Pat Cummins. He has pace and bounce, bowls long spells, picks wickets, reverses the old ball.  Biggest danger for Australia  Jasprit Bumrah with his action, pace, and lift.  India’s lone spinner?  They might go with Ravindra Jadeja for his batting. But I would opt for a wicket-taker like R. Ashwin. Don’t forget David Warner is a left-hander.  Players India should be wary of  Warner and Steve Smith. They missed out last time and will be hungry now.  On Virat Kohli leaving after the first Test  It is not just the batting. He will take back with him combativeness and attitude.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/cummins-biggest-threat-for-india/article33262024.ece
06 December 2020||KOLKATA,||Tapan Memorial Club wins, stays on top||Sandipan Das took three wickets and Ramesh Prasad claimed two in Tapan Memorial Club’s six-wicket win over East Bengal in the Bengal T20 Challenge at the Eden Gardens here on Saturday. EB, asked to bat, managed 129 for nine. TMC achieved victory in 19th over to retain its top spot. EB lost Abhimanyu Easwaran, who returned after his COVID-19 layoff, cheaply. But Shreevats Goswami (29, 29b, 4x4) and Ranjot Khaira (28, 32b, 4x4) showed good intent to add 71 runs. Khaira, who played some well-timed shots, and Goswami, who shone on the off-side, got out in quick succession to Prayas Ray Barman and Gaurav Chauhan respectively. Applying the brakes The TMC bowlers applied the brakes with Das, who later scored 11, and Ramesh inflicting maximum damage. Das had Arnab Nandi (22, 20b, 2x4, 1x6) caught brilliantly at long-on before scalping two others in his two-over spell. Openers Koushik Ghosh (24, 32b, 2x4) and Vikash Singh (23, 12b, 3x4, 1x6), who showcased some lusty blows during the PowerPlay, played contrasting knocks to gather 34 runs. Kaif Ahmed (25 not out, 26b, 2x4), Shakir Gandhi (25, 20b, 1x4, 1x6) and Tarun Godara (16 not out, 9b, 2x4, 1x6) made handy contributions to ensure TMC’s victory.  The scores:   East Bengal 129/9 in 20 overs (Sandipan Das 3/20, Ramesh Prasad 2/33) lost to Tapan Memorial Club 130/4 in 18.2 overs (Sujit Yadav 2/24).   On Friday: Calcutta Customs 119/5 in 20 overs (Prince Yadav 2/18) lost to Mohun Bagan 125/2 in 14.4 overs (Writtick Chatterjee 41 n.o., Anustup Majumdar 40 n.o.) .   EB lost Abhimanyu Easwaran, who returned after his COVID-19 layoff, cheaply||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tapan-memorial-club-wins-stays-on-top/article33261603.ece
06 December 2020||Pune:,||Bold Legend primed to deliver in main event||Trainer P. Shroff’s ward Bold Legend, who is in good shape as evidenced by his track trials and mock race, should win the Royal Calcutta Turf Club Cup, the chief event of Sunday’s (Dec. 6) Mumbai races here. Rails will be announced one hour before the first race. There will be no online or totalizator betting operations at RWITC.  A. GEDDIS PLATE (1,400m), Cl. V, 4-y-o & over, rated 4 to 30, 2.00 p.m.: 1. Va Bene (14) Neeraj 60, 2. Arabian Storm (4) Kaviraj 59, 3. Shapath (5) T.S. Jodha 59, 4. So Splendid (6) Trevor 58.5, 5. Allegria (13) A. Prakash 58, 6. Blazing Bay (9) Bhawani 57.5, 7. Sir Ramon (12) Parmar 57.5, 8. Tough Cop (3) Peter 57.5, 9. Starringo (2) Prasad 58, 10. Gandalf (8) Pranil 56, 11. The Pie (Late Arizona Pie) (10) A. Sandesh 55, 12. Principessa (11) Dashrath 51, 13. Big Ben (7) Aniket 50.5 and 14. Cecelia (1) Merchant 49.  1. THE PIE,   2. ARABIAN STORM,   3. SIR RAMON   SNOW DEW PLATE (Div. II) (1,000m), Cl. III, 4-y-o & over, rated 40 to 66, 2.30: 1. Sea Quest (7) Peter 59, 2. Auspicious (1) S. Kamble 57.5, 3. Highland Lass (2) A. Sandesh 56.5, 4. Ustad Pedro (4) Aniket 54, 5. Fine Tune (8) S.J. Sunil 52, 6. Godsword (5) Kaviraj 50.5, 7. Super Mario (3) Zeeshan 50 and 8. Turmeric Tower (6) Dashrath 49.5.  1. HIGHLAND LASS, 2. SEA QUEST,   3. TURMERIC TOWER   FREE RADICAL PLATE (1,200m), Cl. IV, rated 20 to 46, 3.00: 1. Princess Annabel (10) Bhawani 61, 2. Goshawk (9) V. Walkar 59, 3. Auroden (4) N.B. Kuldeep 56.5, 4. Menilly (8) A. Sandesh 56.5, 5. Kalina (13) S.J. Sunil 55.5, 6. Twinspire (1) Dashrath 55.5, 7. Speed Air (3) Chouhan 55, 8. World Is One (6) Trevor 53.5, 9. Rambler (11) Prasad 53, 10. Falaknuma (5) T.S. Jodha 51.5, 11. Fifty Grand (2) Malam 51.5, 12. Hot To Trot (7) Raghuveer 51.5 and 13. Candescent Star (12) Zeeshan 50.  1. MENILLY, 2. SPEED AIR,   3. PRINCESS ANNABEL   DEMOCRATICUS PLATE (1,400m), Cl. III, rated 40 to 66, 3.30: 1. Barack (2) Kirtish Bhagat 61, 2. Gallantry (4) Chouhan 59, 3. Makhtoob (3) C.S. Jodha 56.5, 4. Khartoum (8) N.B. Kuldeep 56, 5. Enid Blyton (1) Neeraj 54, 6. My Precious (6) A. Prakash 53.5, 7. Benghazi (7) Kaviraj 50.5 and 8. Tudor Hall (5) Zervan 49.  1. ENID BLYTON,   2. GALLANTRY,   3. BENGHAZI   ROYAL CALCUTTA TURF CLUB CUP (1,600m), (Terms) Maiden, 3-y-o only, 4.00: 1. Bold Legend (11) Neeraj 56, 2. Cabo Da Roca (1) Dashrath 56, 3. Corus (9) Peter 56, 4. Dagger’s Strike (3) Parmar 56, 5. Kingsway (5) Shailesh Shinde 56, 6. Marlboro Man (4) T.S. Jodha 56, 7. William Wallace (13) S. Kamble 56, 8. Wind Whistler (8) A. Sandesh 56, 9. Fire N Ice (6) Chouhan 54.5, 10. Melania (2) Trevor 54.5, 11. Melisandre (12) C.S. Jodha 54.5, 12. Moldova (10) Nazil 54.5 and 13. Streek (7) Zervan 54.5.  1. BOLD LEGEND,   2. WIND WHISTLER,   3. MELISANDRE   SNOW DEW PLATE DIV. I (1,000m), Cl. III, 4-y-o & over, rated 40 to 66, 4.30: 1. Storm Breaker (3) Neeraj 60.5, 2. Hidden Gold (6) Trevor 57.5, 3. Impala (5) Dashrath 56.5, 4. Namaqua (2) Aniket 56, 5. Wild Fire (4) Kaviraj 55, 6. Dazzling Star (7) A. Sandesh 53.5, 7. Untitled (1) Shubham 53 and 8. Antarctica (8) S. Amit 51.  1. HIDDEN GOLD, 2. STORM BREAKER, 3. NAMAQUA   WHITE METAL PLATE (1,600m), Cl. IV, rated 20 to 46, 5.00: 1. Power Of Thor (1) Kaviraj 60.5, 2. Fencing (9) Malam 59, 3. Live By Night (12) A. Sandesh 58.5, 4. Cipher (5) Chouhan 56.5, 5. White River (4) Trevor 55, 6. Arrecife (10) Bhawani 54, 7. Storm Trigger (2) C.S. Jodha 54, 8. Circle Of Love (8) Zervan 52.5, 9. Maxine (7) Neeraj 52.5, 10. Naxos (11) N.B. Kuldeep 52.5, 11. Springbok (3) Aniket 52.5 and 12. Nightfall (6) Zeeshan 49.  1. LIVE BY NIGHT, 2. CIRCLE OF LOVE, 3. WHITE RIVER  Day’s best: LIVE BY NIGHT  Double: HIGHLAND LASS — ENID BLYTON||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bold-legend-primed-to-deliver-in-main-event/article33262150.ece
06 December 2020||Thiruananthapuram:,||KSSC grants recognition to GAK, KKCA||The Kerala State Sports Council (KSSC) has officially recognised Gymnastics Association Kerala (GAK) and Kerala Kayaking and Conoeing Association (KKCA). The standing committee of KSSC when met in November decided to give recognition to the two associations under provisions of Kerala Sports Act 2000 and Kerala Sports Rules 2008. Both associations will now receive all grants and help from KSSC. The GAK is headed by K. Ravanan, who is the general secretary, while B. Sasidharan Pillai is the president. Anil Bose is the secretary of KKCA while S. Beena is the secretary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kssc-grants-recognition-to-gak-kkca/article33261488.ece
06 December 2020||KOLKATA,||Gokulam Kerala to play in IFA Shield||The 123rd edition of the IFA Shield football tournament will bring together a host of I-League teams looking to have some good competition ahead of the start of the league in the second week of January. Matches will be played across six venues from Dec. 6 to 19. In the last few seasons, the tournament had turned into an under-19 affair after it failed to attract the top clubs due to a heavy National calendar. After the leagues were restructured, IFA Shield regained its spot as a seniors’ tournament. The four I-League sides which will vie for honours are Gokulam Kerala, Real Kashmir, Indian Arrows and Mohammedan Sporting. Peerless SC, Kidderpore SC, Kalighat MS, Aryan Club, Southern Samity, George Telegraph SC, United Sports Club and B.S.S. Sporting are the Calcutta Football League premier division sides in the fray.  The 12 teams have been divided into four groups, with the top two from each advancing to the quarterfinals which will be played on Dec. 14). The semifinals is scheduled for Dec. 16 and the final on Dec. 19. There will be no bio-bubble, but the players, support staff and officials have to undergo the specified number of COVID-19 tests as intimated by the All India Football Federation (AIFF).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/gokulam-kerala-to-play-in-ifa-shield/article33261489.ece
06 December 2020||Hyderabad:,||British Empress should make amends in the Time And Place Plate||The four-year-old filly British Empress, who ran second in her last start, should make amends in the Time And Place Plate, the feature event of Sunday’s (Dec. 6) races.  GRACE HANOVER PLATE (1,100m), Maiden, 2-y-o only, (Cat. II), 1.15 p.m.: 1. Ascot (5) Afroz Khan 56, 2. Ashwa Jauhar (6) Suraj Narredu 56, 3. Bruno (10) Kiran Naidu 56, 4. Charmer (2) B.R. Kumar 56, 5. Dream Station (8) Ajit Singh 56, 6. Jarvis (4) R. Laxmikanth 56, 7. Quality Warrior (1) G. Naresh 56, 8. Tenth Attraction (14) Akshay Kumar 56, 9. The Prospect (12) A.A. Vikrant 56, 10. Angelita (15) Gaddam 54.5, 11. By The Bay (3) Ashad Asbar 54.5, 12. Inside Story (7) Nakhat Singh 54.5, 13. Moonlight Ruby (13) Irvan Singh 54.5, 14. Over Joy (9) Kuldeep Singh 54.5 and 15. Sally (11) Md.Ismail 54.5.  1. ASHWA JAUHAR, 2. JARVIS,   3. QUALITY WARRIOR   TIC TOC PLATE (Div. I) (1,200m), rated 40 to 65, (Cat. II), 1.45: 1. Sitara (8) Abhay Singh 60.5, 2. King Maker (3) Surya Prakash 59, 3. Palace On Wheels (4) Gopal Singh 58.5, 4. Rapid Fire (5) Suraj Narredu 58.5, 5. Loch Stella (11) Jitendra Singh 57.5, 6. Makram (2) Afroz Khan 57, 7. Marina Del Rey (7) Kiran Naidu 55.5, 8. N R I Vision (9) Koushik 54, 9. La mer (6) Md. Ismail 53.5, 10. Apollo (13) Ashad Asbar 53, 11. Flamingo Fame (14) Santosh Raj N R 52, 12. Sporting Smile (10) Nakhat Singh 52, 13. Soul Empress (12) Gaddam 51 and 14. Incredulous (1) B.R. Kumar 50.  1. SITARA, 2. RAPID FIRE,   3. APOLLO   CABARET PLATE (1,400m), rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III), 2.15: 1. Angel Tesoro (8) B.R. Kumar 60, 2. Explosive (18) Irvan Singh 60, 3. Aerial Combat (1) Akshay Kumar 58, 4. O’Brien (11) Deepak Singh 56, 5. Crazy Horse (14) Md. Ismail 55, 6. Tapatio (2) Surya Prakash 55, 7. Detonator (6) Gaurav Singh 54.5, 8. Amaretto (12) Gaddam 54, 9. Grand Finale (7) A.A. Vikrant 54, 10. Stud Poker (17) Kuldeep Singh 54, 11. Surseine (10) Koushik 54, 12. Tough And Go (16) Abhay Singh 53, 13. Blue Valentine (15) R. Laxmikanth 52.5, 14. Cephalonia (13) G. Naresh 52.5, 15. Cheltenham (4) Afroz Khan 52.5, 16. Lagos (5) Jodha R S 52.5, 17. Melting Ice (3) Nakhat Singh 52.5 and 18. Misty River (9) Ajit Singh 52.5.  1. AERIAL COMBAT, 2. CRAZY HORSE, 3. ANGEL TESORO   TIC TOC PLATE (Div. II) (1,200m), rated 40 to 65, (Cat. II), 2.45: 1. Strategist (7) Suraj Narredu 60.5, 2. Her Legacy (5) Kiran Naidu 59.5, 3. Asteria (3) Rohit Kumar 59, 4. Guiding Force (2) Santosh Raj N R 58.5, 5. Prince Caspian (13) Jitendra Singh 57.5, 6. N R I Elegance (12) Koushik 56, 7. Ayur Shakti (8) Afroz Khan 55, 8. Evon Von Brando (1) R. Laxmikanth 53.5, 9. Meritocracy (4) Abhay Singh 53.5, 10. Celeritas (6) Md. Ismail 53, 11. Classy Guy (9) C.P. Bopanna 52, 12. Hidden Hope (10) Kuldeep Singh 51 and 13. Wah Ms Zara (11) Irvan Singh 51.  1. STRATEGIST, 2. CELERITAS,   3. HIDDEN HOPE   HIMAYAT SAGAR PLATE (Div. I) (1,200m), 5-y-o & upward, rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III), 3.15:1. Balius (4) Rohit Kumar 61.5, 2. Dancing Doll (14) Md. Ismail 61.5, 3. New State (2) Irvan Singh 60.5, 4. Hurricane (6) Abhay Singh 60, 5. Man Apart (1) Gaurav Singh 60, 6. Promiseofhappiness (10) A.A. Vikrant 59, 7. Blazing Speed (5) Jitendra Singh 58, 8. Wood Bridge (13) Surya Prakash 58, 9. Royal Green (3) Akshay Kumar 57.5, 10. Story Teller (9) Nakhat Singh 55.5, 11. Magic Street (11) Suraj Narredu 53.5, 12. Farmville (7) B.R. Kumar 53, 13. Air Salute (12) Afroz Khan 52.5 and 14. Satin Symphony (8) Santosh Raj N R 50.  1. MAGIC STREET, 2. STORY TELLER, 3. ROYAL GREEN   TIME AND PLACE PLATE (1,600m), rated 40 to 65, (Cat. II), 3.45: 1. Artistry (1) Irvan Singh 60, 2. Dandy Man (5) Ashad Asbar 59, 3. Egyptian Prince (3) Surya Prakash 59, 4. British Empress (13) Akshay Kumar 58.5, 5. Premier Action (2) Suraj Narredu 56.5, 6. Miss Marvellous (7) Kiran Naidu 55, 7. Beyond Limits (10) Gopal Singh 54.5, 8. Big Brave (14) Santos Raj N R 54.5, 9. Rhythm Selection (Ex: No Compromise) (9) Kuldeep Singh 54, 10. Lockhart (11) Afroz Khan 53.5, 11. Gusty Look (12) Koushik 53, 12. Call Of The Blue (15) Gaurav Singh 52.5, 13. Ice Warrior (4) Nakhat Singh 52, 14. Star Of Tiara (6) G. Naresh 51.5 and 15. N R I Heights (8) Abhay Singh 50.5.  1. BRITISH EMPRESS,   2. PREMIER ACTION, 3. DANDY MAN   HIMAYAT SAGAR PLATE (Div. II) (1,200m), 5-y-o & upward, rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III), 4.15: 1. Marvel Princess (12) Santosh Raj N R 61, 2. Golden Hope (A.A. Vikrant (1) 60.5, 3. Tiger Of The Sea (2) R. Laxmikanth 60.5, 4. Platinum Claasz (10) Abhay Singh 60, 5. Human Touch (8) Irvan Singh 59, 6. Sublime (9) Gopal Singh 59, 7. Shiloh (14) Deepak Singh 58.5, 8. Solo Winner (7) Jitendra Singh 58.5, 9. Starboy (13) Ashad Asbar 57, 10. Brush The Sky (4) Afroz Khan 55, 11. Country’s Gift (6) B.R. Kumar 54, 12. Smarty (5) Gaurav Singh 54, 13. N R I Flame (3) Gaddam 52.5 and 14. Negress Princess (11) G. Naresh 52.5.  1. MARVEL PRINCESS, 2. SUBLIME, 3. STARBOY   MEDAK PLATE (1,400m), 4-y-o & upward, rated upto 25, (Cat. III), 4.45: 1. Starwalker (12) Akshay Kumar 60, 2. Sun Dancer (11) Afroz Khan 60, 3. Tough Lady (9) Surya Prakash 60, 4. Vallee Ikon (4) Deepak Singh 60, 5. Dillon (8) Gaurav Singh 59.5, 6. Maxwell (5) Jitendra Singh 59.5, 7. Royal Avenger (13) G. Naresh 59.5, 8. Halo’s Princess (17) Jodha R S 59, 9. Original Temptress (7) Abhay Singh 58.5, 10. Whiskery (15) Md. Ismail 58.5, 11. Bedazzled (18) Nakhat Singh 58, 12. Moka (1) Ajit Singh 58, 13. Kintsugi (16) Koushik 57.5, 14. Acadian Angel (14) Kiran Naidu 57, 15. Agilis (10) Gopal Singh 54.5, 16. Moment Of Silence (Ex: Vijays Maestro) (6) A.A. Vikrant 54, 17. Hopscotch (2) B.R. Kumar 52 and 18. Golden Faraska (3) Santosh Raj N R 50.  1. STARWALKER, 2. DILLON, 3. TOUGH LADY  Day’s best: ASHWA JAUHAR  Double: AERIAL COMBAT — STRATEGIST  Jackpot: 4, 5, 6, 7 & 8; Mini jackpot: (i) 2, 3 , 4 & 5. (ii) 5, 6, 7 & 8. Treble: (i) 1, 2 & 3. (ii) 3, 4 & 5. (iii) 6, 7 & 8. Tanala: All races.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/british-empress-should-make-amends-in-the-time-and-place-plate/article33261351.ece
06 December 2020||LONDON,||Man City enters top four||Manchester City climbed into the Premier League top four after first-half goals from Raheem Sterling and Kevin de Bruyne secured a comfortable 2-0 home win over struggling Fulham on Saturday. It was the first time this season City notched successive league wins as it also stretched its perfect record against Fulham to 10 games in all competitions after a dominant performance at the Etihad stadium. The result lifted City into fourth place on 18 points from 10 games while Fulham stayed 17th on seven points from 11 matches, just outside the relegation zone. Earlier, Everton was held to a 1-1 draw at Burnley after Dominic Calvert-Lewin cancelled out Robbie Brady’s opener for the Clarets. Everton is seventh with 17 from 11 games,, four points off the pace, while Burnley has six points from 10 games. Real Madrid gets lucky Real Madrid earned a scrappy 1-0 victory at Sevilla on Saturday, thanks to an own goal from keeper Bono, to snap a three-game winless run in LaLiga and ease the pressure on coach Zinedine Zidane.  Important results: Premier League: Burnley 1 (Brady 3) drew with Everton 1 (Calvert-Lewin 45+3); Manchester City 2 (Sterling 5, de Bruyne 26-pen) bt Fulham 0.   LaLiga: Sevilla 0 lost to Real Madrid 1 (Bono 55-og).   Serie A: Spezia 1 (Nzola 64) lost to Lazio 2 (Immobile 15, Milinkovic-Savic 33).   Bu ndesliga: Freiburg 2 (Lienhart 32, Grifo 49-pen) drew with Borussia Monchengladbach 2 (Embolo 23, Plea 50); Eintracht Frankfurt 1 (Kamada 9) drew with Borussia Dortmund 1 (Reyna 56).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/city-enters-top-four/article33261352.ece
06 December 2020||December 06 2020 00:00 IST,||NEUFC blanks East Bengal||Robbie Fowler’s SC East Bengal suffered yet another reverse while an unbeaten NorthEast United moved to second in the ISL table with a 2-0 win at the Tilak Maidan in Vasco on Saturday. Three matches, three defeats, zero goals scored, seven goals conceded and lying at the bottom of the table — that’s been East Bengal story in the ISL so far. In the 33rd minute, Kwesi Appiah fired in a low cross across goal which struck Surchandra Singh, who was unsighted, and rolled into the goal. East Bengal had a couple of appeals for penalty turned down: for a foul by Ashutosh Mehta inside the NEUFC box in the 19th minute and when a shot at goal struck the arm of Mashoor Shereef at the hour-mark. With the Kolkata team pushing high for the equaliser, NEUFC struck again in the 90th minute. Substitutes V.P. Suhair and Rochharzela combined to find the target, the latter providing the finishing touches.  The result:   NorthEast United FC 2 (Surchandra 33-og, Rochharzela 90) bt SC East Bengal 0.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/neufc-blanks-east-bengal/article33261361.ece
06 December 2020||Chennai,||Dhoni’s company ties up with CSS||Former South African batsman Daryll Cullinan visited the Centre for Sports Science (CSS) High Performance Centre to inaugurate the tie-up between M.S. Dhoni’s Aarka Sports Management Group and the state-of-the-art CSS here on Saturday. Cullinan, who will also be the Director of Coaching at the Centre, said the venture was a meeting between the cricketing skills and the excellent, modern facilities including a bio-mechanical centre at the CSS. Speaking on the occasion, Prof. Dr. S. Arumugam, Director, CSS, said the CSS was recognised, both by the BCCI and ICC. He added that the CSS has had tie-ups with institutions in South Africa, Australia and England for sports science. Mihir Diwakar, former India under-19 player and Managing Director, Aarka Sports Management, predicted a bright future for the association and aspirants across India. Mandar Dalvi will be the head coach and Prashant Chandran will be the fast bowling coach.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/dhonis-company-ties-up-with-css/article33262025.ece
06 December 2020||HYDERABAD,||Kashyap and Prannoy test positive||Four shuttlers — former Commonwealth Games gold medallist P. Kashyap, H.S. Prannoy, R.M.V. Guru Sai Dutt and doubles player Pranaav Jerry Chopra — have tested positive for COVID-19. According to sources close to a player, one of them developed mild symptoms after attending Sai Dutt’s wedding recently. All of them are asymptomatic and under self-quarantine at their respective places.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kashyap-and-prannoy-test-positive/article33261362.ece
06 December 2020||Sydney,||Test hopefuls get into the action||India will look to figure out its playing XI as the Test squad gets into the groove by taking on Australia-A in a three-day warm-up game at Drummoyne Oval here from Sunday. With India and Australia playing the second T20I on the same day, the visiting Test squad has been named India-A for the first of the two practice games scheduled ahead of the much-anticipated four-Test series. In batting, Mayank Agarwal is set to open the innings but there is a question mark over his partner, with the choice falling between Prithvi Shaw and Shubman Gill. For Australia, the spotlight will be on William Pucovski as he looks to grab the opener’s slot following an injury to David Warner, who has been ruled of at least the opening Test.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/test-hopefuls-get-into-the-action/article33261369.ece
06 December 2020||Chennai:,||TT tournament||Tamizhaga Table Tennis Association will conduct its State championships from December 9 to 14 at the SDAT-Medimix Chandra Academy, Mogappair. Events will be held from cadet to senior singles. Entries close on Dec. 6. Call 94441 44482.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tt-tournament/article33262027.ece
06 December 2020||December 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Dhruv, Sumit make merry||Dhruv Kaushik (110) and Sumit Mathur (89 n.o.) added 168 runs for the third wicket as Swami Shraddhanand College beat Pioneer Cricket Club by 87 runs to enter the quarterfinals of the 30th all-India Om Nath Sood memorial tournament.  The scores: SSC 265/4 in 40 overs (Dhruv Kaushik 110, Sumit Mathur 89 n.o.) bt Pioneer 178 in 39.3 overs (Shivam Singh 67, Anish Ali 3/34).     Rann Star Club defeated Roahtak Road Gymkhana by seven wickets in the Turf Youth Cup under-19 cricket tournament.  The scores: RRG 145 in 36.2 overs (Sambhav Sharma 32, Lakshay Gol 32, Utkarsh Jain 4/18, Bittu Kumar 3/10) lost to RSC 150/3 in 24.4 overs (Sombir Sheokand 68 n.o., Sidharth Beniwal 32 n.o.).      Sporting Club posted a six-wicket win over Skillz Academy in the Satish Sharma memorial under-16 cricket tournament.  The scores: Skillz Academy 107 in 27.4 overs (Raja Roy 38, Badal Rai 4/24, Kartik Kalra 3/13) lost to Sporting Club 110/4 in 16.2 overs (Chirag Kumar 43 n.o.).     M-10 Academy defeated Friends Club by 90 runs in the Hari Ballabh Sharma memorial under-14 cricket tournament.  The scores: M-10 Academy 207/9 in 40 overs (Madhur Yadav 69, Vansh Sharma 3/22, Har Kishan Kakkar 3/45) bt Friends Club 117 in 30.5 overs .    Sparsh Beniwal (4/13), Archit Malik (53) and Mayank Dagar (50) helped Sporting Club beat Players Academy by five wickets in the fifth Shanti Devi memorial cricket tournament.  The scores: Players Academy 170 in 34 overs (Ajay Gulia 48, Yajas Sharma 46, Sparsh Beniwal 4/13) lost to Sporting Club 175/5 in 29.1 overs (Archit Malik 53, Mayank Dagar 50, Praveen Jakhar 32) .    Delhi Under-19 Player Sanat Sangwan and Akshay Solanki scored identical 47-run knocks as Arush Sports beat Gross Sporting by 31 runs in the BR Sharma memorial tournament.  The scores: Arush Sports 203/7 in 32 overs (Sanat Sangwan 47, Akshay Solanki 47, Ankit Chillar 38, Sachin Sharma 3/50) bt Gross Sporting 172/6 in 32 overs (Jagdev Bhati 46, Prashant Chauhan 32).     Tanishq defeated Sajid Ali 52-26, 32-44, 35-59, 56-34, 50-39 in the second round of the Delhi State snooker meet.  Other results: Sunny Solanki bt Arpit Seth 65-20, 60-26, 78-28; Sumit Goel bt Mohit Antil 59-34, 53-23, 62-26 .    Paras Dahiya will take on Fardeen Qamar in the final of the 1,00,000 AITA-ranking tournament in Sonepat.   The results (semifinals): Paras bt Karan Singh 6-7(4), 6-3, 6-2; Fardeen bt Sandesh Dattaray 6-3, 6-2 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/dhruv-sumit-make-merry/article33262075.ece
06 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Rijiju resolves customs duty issue||The Sports Minister Kiren Rijiju, on Saturday, said that Srinath Narayanan will get a refund after he was asked to pay custom duty on the gold medal that he had won in the FIDE Online Chess Olympiad. According to reports, Srinath had to pay custom duty of Rs. 6,300 to get the gold medal. Rijiju, on Saturday, said his office has contacted the player and the issue has been resolved.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rijiju-resolves-customs-duty-issue/article33262074.ece
06 December 2020||HYDERABAD,||Premier Handball League from Dec. 24||Telangana Tigers, UP Icons, Maharashtra Handball Hustlers, King Hawks Rajasthan, Bengal Blues and Punjab Pitbulls will vie for honours in the inaugural Premier Handball League (PHL) at Jaipur’s Sawai Mansingh Indoor Stadium from Dec. 24 to Jan. 10, according to A. Jagan Mohan Rao, president, Handball Federation of India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/premier-handball-league-from-dec-24/article33261356.ece
06 December 2020||December 06 2020 07:34 IST,||Sudoku - December 6, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-december-6-2020/article33262294.ece
06 December 2020||December 06 2020 00:00 IST,||‘ Tenet is wonderful escapism’||Tenet is truly a ‘Nolan baby’ inside-out, more so than his other reality-bending films such as Memento , The Prestige , and Inception . But time wound up for the film’s release, owing to the COVID-19 pandemic. Having been released in the U.S. and the U.K. in September, the IMAX-shot film is now running in theatres across India. The film stars Aussie actor Elizabeth Debicki ( The Man From U.N.C.L.E. , Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 2 ) as Kat, an expert in art curation and restoration, who becomes integral to the Protagonist (John David Washington) and Neil’s (Robert Pattinson) mission to save the world from an apocalyptic temporal war, enforced by Russian oligarch Sator (Kenneth Branagh). Theatrical value Elizabeth’s scenes were shot in various parts of the world, including Estonia, Vietnam and London, but she missed out on shooting in Mumbai. She still says, over a call from her home in Australia, that “ Tenet having a release in India warmed my heart because I’m so proud of this film. When Chris [Nolan] and Warner Brothers said they would release it this year, I remember thinking this is exactly what people need right now because Tenet is wonderful cinema and escapism, in a meta way. It has made me more aware of what cinema can do for people, in a time of ‘drought’.” The announcement of Tenet having a theatrical release surprised the entertainment world, but those close to Nolan know of his tenacity. The 30-year-old, aware of the pandemic-induced restrictions experienced by the theatre and entertainment industries, sees it both ways. “[The theatrical release decision] reinforced something I know about Chris,” she elaborates, “In that he is a remarkable, auteur filmmaker who exists, in my opinion, in his own space. But I also know how much Chris’s and Emma Thomas’s ( Tenet ’s producer and Nolan’s wife) dedication to and love for the art form are so pure and real. They will be the ones who constantly go to the cinema and understand that Tenet is to be watched on a big screen and communally, with the sound and the colour. He understood that, even though we are in difficult times en global masse, if there was a way for people to go safely and still have cinema feed their souls, he would encourage that. I respected that approach.” When Tenet entered the pre-production stage in 2018, the world got to know, headline by headline, how collaborative the film was going to be; alongside a diverse cast, were cinematographer Hoyte van Hoytema ( Interstellar , Dunkirk ), composer Ludwig Göransson ( Black Panther , Creed I and II ), production designer Nathan Crowley (Dunkirk , The Prestige ), and sound designer Richard King ( Inception , The Dark Knight ), to name a few. Elizabeth agrees, laughing, “Words are my thing! The way Chris runs his set and directs, is whatever the scale of a given scene, each frame has the same blueprint. It’s all ‘fundamentally Chris’ as a masterful storyteller, and even with Hoyte, it is all about singular focus, whether it is someone’s hand reaching for something or a plane flying into a building. Each iota that is being captured on film, is as important as the next. I have never experienced that before, and even speaking to you now, I grapple with how he does that! It is important to Chris that you understand. As an actor, this is very freeing, because you feel held by the atmosphere.” ‘Very harrowing’ For Elizabeth, Tenet did not just entail physically demanding work, but also that of the emotional variety too; Kat’s relationship with Sator comprises a great deal of fear but she insists her character is far from a damsel in distress. “The grounds that [Kenneth Branagh] and I covered emotionally with those two roles were very dark. It was, at times, very harrowing,” she comments, “With that kind of material, once you understand what you need to say with the scene and what the scene creates for your character to become this psychological portrait on screen, you surrender to it.” She laughs as she adds, “It sounds like such a basic thing, but it was important that Ken and I really liked each other as people, and we both have a quirky sense of humour, so we were able to give each other a lot of life and support, and add levity to the shooting experience. Finding time to laugh helped a lot.” Regarding future projects, the 30-year-old Elizabeth is looking at a diverse range of moods, not just laughs. Her two biggest upcoming roles include the late Lady Diana, Princess of Wales in Netflix’s The Crown ’s seasons five and six, and leader of The Sovereign gold-dipped alien race Ayesha in Marvel Cinematic Universe’s Guardians of the Galaxy Vol 3 .  Behind the script   Tenet had long been on director Christopher Nolan’s mind — 20 years to be precise — and the script began to take physical shape back in 2014. To perfect the interpretations of time and science within the film, Nolan brought on theoretical physicist Kip Thorne, who worked with Nolan on Interstellar , to consult.  In past interviews, Elizabeth Debicki recalls her casting experience, which saw her being flown to Los Angeles to read the script in a locked room with no phones allowed — complete with a signed NDA.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/tenet-is-wonderful-escapism/article33261526.ece
06 December 2020||December 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Drawing strength from the community during a pandemic||After three days punctuated with false starts, there is finally some uninterrupted conversation with Mano Ranjani, one that lasts five minutes. On the first occasion, a bawling two-year-old intruded upon the call, leading Ranjani to abruptly disconnect it to attend to the crisis at hand. Later, Ranjani texts to explain why a complete chat would have to wait still: she was shifting home, had to take her father to the hospital; and a mother of three, her eldest child is 11-years-old and autistic. Every evening, Ranjani has a volunteer coming home to engage with her older child. “That is the only time I manage to find some rest,” she says. Despite the challenges thrown up by the pandemic — which requires her to play teacher and therapist at home — Ranjani continues to moderate seven WhatsApp groups under what is known as VOICE (Voice of Parents for Inclusion, Care and Empowerment of Children with Special Needs). The four-year-old support group for parents of children having intellectual disabilities was started with 10 other parents. Now VOICE has grown to nearly 2,000 parents. Before the pandemic, parents would meet once in two months at Loyola College for a discussion, which was made possible by volunteers who would look after the children. “There are days when the interactions never seem to cease, but that is the best aspect of being in a support group,” says Ranjani, adding that one comes across many other parents who face challenges that are so similar yet distinctly unique. “Through these interactions, we draw strength from the community,” adds Ranjani. Vimal Balachander, an active member of the parent support group SCAN (Special Child Assistance Network), which has over 3000 members on its Facebook page, points out that everybody is feeling emotionally vulnerable due to the pandemic, but the activities and live calls, made possible by support groups enable them to brave through the challenging times. “We don’t do everything ourselves, by encouraging others it becomes a mood booster,” says Vimal. Vimal explains how a monthly conversation series started by a parent, Suja Shyamsundar, is helping members cope with the situation. She adds that the responsibilities of keeping the series going are shared, with some offering tech support, and others preparing posters and circulating them among groups. There are other activities like quizzes and antakshari organised by other members. Vimal cites the example of how parents of special children have benefited from Delhi-based Shalu Sharma. “During the lockdown, Shalu Sharma engaged many special children with easy-to-do activities,” she says. A common question One question that most support groups has been trying to answer now: ‘How to enable the child and the caregiver to keep up the motivation level during these challenging times?’ Ranjani points out that without a support system at home, continually monitoring children can be tiresome. VOICE has been receiving many requests from parents looking for volunteers who can come home and keep the child engaged. There are groups that see how best children can be engaged online. Since the lockdown began, Mala Chinnappa, who conducts ‘A Brush With Art (ABWA)’ along with Jyotsna Srinivasan and Priya Badri at Cholamandal Artists Village, has moved the programme online. “We kept the format the same: one-on-one class, 40 minutes and very gentle guidance, and were surprised to find our children work independently and were joyfully engaged. The moms gently assisting without getting in the way of the free exploration was another beautiful development. The art of stepping back, letting go is difficult to practise, the moms are definitely getting there,” says Mala, a resident of ECR. Mala and Chinnappa, who run aSPECIALworld, a forum for children with special needs that they started in 2015, feels sustaining online interactions is less challenging now than that they were before the pandemic. “Previously, there was the difficulty of sending the child to school; and the challenge of getting the child to take up any online activity that is offered. Now, the parent and the child have more time at their disposal, and there is also the greater choice in terms of finding the activities that best suit the child. It is like a fog has lifted off from them,” says Mala, an advertisement professional and the mother of a special child. The challenges Keeping an online support group active takes some doing. Mala underlines the work that goes on silently behind the scenes to keep the support group running. “My husband Chinna moderates the Facebook group. On an average, we get 15 posts every day, which he clears before posting. We focus considerably on checking the facts and claims in a post. During the lockdown, we have been ruthless in hacking down posts that may start with good intention, but their suggestions may not be scientifically proven. Sometimes, we even have a discussion with the practitioners before promoting their content,” says Mala. The Facebook group has been growing. Says Mala, “As you get larger, your visibility increases, and along with it, the level of responsibility and accountability.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/drawing-strength-from-the-community-during-a-pandemic/article33261824.ece
06 December 2020||December 06 2020 00:00 IST,||The roads disappear under water||Last week, Anand Rajagopal moved to Permabur, his family in tow. Siva Rama Subramanian is sheltering in Nungambakkam, along with his expectant wife, one-and-a-half year-old son and three-year-old pet dog. Shakeel has taken refuge at Kolathur, the move necessitated by an approaching deadline: His youngest son’s wedding is on December 6. All three are residents of Gandhi Nagar in Thalambur, and heavy flooding of roads in the neighbourhood following the rains caused by Nivar led them to move to their relatives’ homes in other parts of Chennai, to lead their lives as normally as possible. Some ‘fled’ the locality in a dramatic fashion: Siva and his family were ferried by a boat operated by the Tamil Nadu Fire & Rescue Services (TNFRS), to Old Mahabalipuram Road (OMR). Shakeel relied on a lorry service arranged by Casagrand Elan Owners Association (CEOA), the residents’ welfare group at his gated community. “I’m 54 and have a wheezing problem. With much difficulty, I climbed the lorry’s ladder,” says Shakeel, adding that the wedding in the family would require them to step out often; and under water, Gandhi Nagar does not allow them that option. Residents point out that every monsoon, following heavy showers, they encounter inundated roads. “Last year, three families including mine stayed at a nearby hotel on Old Mahabalipuram Road, for two days,” says Anand Rajagopal, a resident of Jagannath Meadows, a gated community. Anand points out that this year, the inundation on the roads is much worse, and even SUVs struggle through it. Two days ago, en elderly person passed away and the vehicle carrying the freezer box got stuck in the waters and another vehicle had to tow it in the middle of night. “We have advised our residents with health conditions, and also expectant mothers to move out of the neighbourhood, as ambulances may not be able enter our roads,” says A. Ramesh, a resident of Casagrand Elan. Residents who have stayed back reach OMR by a van arranged by CEOA. “Until three days ago, we were hiring a lorry. The Association spent Rs. 4,000 every day for the lorry service, which would shuttle between Casagrand Elan and OMR from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m., with one trip operated every hour. Residents of the nearby Jagannath Meadows were also accommodated,” adds Ramesh, former secretary of CEOA. The van service is a boon to J. Abhinav, a dentist, who says “I had to cancel appointments with my patients last week, because I was not able access OMR”. CEOA arranged for an excavator to bring essentials to the community, says Ramesh. Some of those residents who have moved out temporarily, got their vehicles loaded on tow vehicles and got out of the locality. “My car was loaded on a towing vehicle and unloaded near OMR service lane. We took out two cars, and we spent Rs. 5,000 as towing charges for each,” says Anand, who is secretary of Jagannath Meadows Villa Owners Welfare Association (JMVOWA). Residents believe inundation of Thalambur is avoidable, and it takes proper management of waterbodies in the region to avoid such crises. “There are many lakes around Gandhi Nagar and following heavy rains, surplus water from some of these lakes overflow into colonies in Thalambur,” says A. Krishnakumar Kishore, president, Jagannath Meadows Villa Owners Welfare Association. Office-bearers of CEOA and JMVOWA believe increasing the height of roads and having a better stormwater drain system to carry the surplus water from these lakes to Buckingham Canal would go a long way towards resolving this recurrent issue. “A drainage system exists, it does not serve its purpose effectively, as water is yet to recede from the roads. The existing drain is from Navalur and gets connected to Buckingham Canal at Okkiyam Thoraipakkam. There were probably clogs in the drain. We also feel that a new drain has to be constructed cutting across OMR at Navalur. The reason is that path of the existing channel is circuitous. That is from Navalur, water is made to pass through the drain via Semmenchery, Sholinganallur, Karapakkam (along the western side of OMR) and cuts across OMR at Okkiyam Thoraipakkam and gets connected to Buckingham Canal on the eastern side of OMR and again the water flows through the same areas but on the eastern side of OMR and drains into the Bay of Bengal at Kovalam. Instead, why not construct a drain cutting across OMR at Navalur and get it connected to Buckingham Canal here itself?” says Krishnakumar. Besides Gandhi Nagar, Jawahar Nagar, Ezhil Nagar are inundation-hit. Residents of these localities plan a protest at K.K. Salai in Sholinganallur on December 7 from 11 a.m. to 12 noon with the permission of Greater Chennai Police. “Many representations made to Thalambur Panchayat and Chenglepet District Collectorate have not yielded results,” says Ramesh, adding that the Thalambur Panchayat cites fund crunch for not taking redemptive action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/the-roads-disappear-under-water/article33261810.ece
06 December 2020||December 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Amur Falcon: Chennai gets off the mark||Achieving three-digit speeds, Nivar led pelagic birds inland. However, in Chennai, the toast of post-Nivar birding was not any pelagic bird, but the Amur Falcon. Between November 26 and 27, three sightings of the Amur Falcon were recorded in Chennai. With that, the metro is off the mark, in terms of documented Amur Falcon sighings. On November 26, 2020, Rama Neelamegam saw an adult female Amur Falcon from her home on De Silva Road in Mylapore. On November 27, Sundaravel Palanivelu also saw an adult female Amur Falcon from his gated community on Third Main Road in Kamakotti Nagar, Pallikaranai. Both managed to photograph the bird they saw. Besides, on November 27, Srinivas Daripineni sighted a juvenile Amur Falcon at the Adyar Estuary. There is a reason to believe that Nivar nudged the Amur Falcon gently towards Chennai. Previous documented sightings closest to the metro actually are from areas well beyond it. “A few of my friends have seen the bird in Pulicat and near Sriperumbudur, but I have not seen it in and around Chennai,” says birder Gnanaskandan Kesavabharathi, who spearheaded an exercise by the Madras Naturalists Society in 2015-16 to create a raptor map for Chennai and surrounding areas.  With satellite tagging, Amur Falcon is “on a leash”, its movements tracked, as the bird migrates in thousands from its breeding grounds in south-eastern Siberia and northern China to South Africa, with an extended pit stop in the North-East, particularly Nagaland. And of course, with the same technology the bird’s reverse migration back to the Siberian-Chinese Far East had been studied equally well. Both ways, the bird is believed to hitch its wagon to monsoonal tailwinds. Satellite tagging creates a picture of not only their usual migratory pathways, but also the slight deviations from them, usually caused by weather systems. Sometimes, the birds just stay off the beaten track, for reasons that cannot be nailed easily. In both cases, these elegant birds of prey may find themselves unlikely pit-stops. Besides technology, citizen birders map the Amur Falcon’s most-favoured stopovers on its migration route, as well as its adventitious detours. Gnanaskandan points out that when these birds end their sojourn in Nagaland — which he calls the “hop-on point” on their migration route — “most of them catch the north-east wind current”. When the journey has taken them to the west coast, they find many halting points. “West coast is where they stop noticeably — they would be sighted in areas along the Maharashtra Coast. In North Karnataka, they can be spotted in places like Hubli. Only very few come down south,” says Gnanaskandan, adding with some of the birds being satellite-tagged, there is reason to believe that these birds “cut across Hyderabad.” Gnanaskandan believes that with Nivar, some birds got forced out of their usual course, and hence the Chennai sightings. However, that is not to say that these birds always require an adventitious event to elbow them off-course. “Some Amur Falcons go all the way to Andamans from the North-East — they would be very few in number though. From Andamans, they would head to their destination in South Africa. There are a few records of Amur Falcons being sighted in the Andamans. There are records of Amur Falcon sightings on ships too,” elaborates Gnanaskandan. When they come in small numbers — twos and threes — they may be inclined to stay on at a place for a few days, says Ganaskandan, drawing attention to how a female Amur Falcon, four years ago, pitched tent in Pulicat for “three to four days”. There is photographic documentation of this sighting in eBird — one record is the entry dated November 6, 2016 of a female Amur Falcon being seen at Pulicat by birder Aravind Amirthraj. Worn to a frazzle due to a cyclone, Amur Falcons can have an extended stopover, refuel, regain their energy and resume their journey. Gnanaskandan points out that in December 2016, huge flocks of Amur Falcons were found in south Tamil Nadu — at Vijayanarayanam tank, close to Tirunelveli. “My eBird listing shows close to 80 Amur Falcons on December 20, 2016. Around the same time, good sightings of the Amur Falcon were happening around Malampuzha dam in Kerala as well,” he says. During that season, Amur Falcons were having an extended sojourn at Vijayanarayanam tank. Says Gnanaskandan, “Till mid-January, 2017 the sightings were happening. To my knowledge, that is the biggest flock of Amur Falcons sighted in Tamil Nadu. It gave an opportunity for people in Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Karnataka to see this beautiful bird of prey.”  (‘Migrant Watch’ is a column about birds that visit Chennai during winter)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/amur-falcon-chennai-gets-off-the-mark/article33261836.ece
06 December 2020||December 06 2020 00:00 IST,||An apology of a road||Residents of Periyar Salai in Palavakkam on East Coast Road have requested the Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply & Sewerage Board to expedite the water pipeline-laying work on the street. Residents point out that the road was dug up five years ago for the water pipeline-laying work, which is yet to be completed. Pipelines have been laid only on a few sections of the road. In some of these sections, the pipes are broken, and there leak water, residents complain. Battered, the road gives motorists a back-breaking drive. Despite its present condition, the road is preferred by many motorists as it provides them with quick access to Rajiv Gandhi Salai, Perungudi, across Buckingham Canal. G. Krishnan, an auto-driver and a resident of Palavakkam, says, “With stones protruding from the road, motorcyclists are at risk for accidents. There are cases of motorcyclists skidding and sustained injuries.” In addition, commercial establishments that have mushroomed over the years are eating into road space. Our pleas to the authorities concerned and elected representatives have not yielded desired results, say residents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/an-apology-of-a-road/article33261813.ece
06 December 2020||December 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Coding gets inclusive||Alan George recently messaged ‘Manu sir’ from his mother Maria Priya’s phone and asked for a coding-related assignment. “He was asked to draw a pattern consisting of various shapes and sizes. He did it almost entirely by himself,” says Maria, a faculty at Loyola College, of the assignment Alan received from his coding mentor. Never before has he managed classes on his own, always requiring his mother to sit with him. “Now, he does not allow me to sit with him for the classes and closes the door so that I do not interrupt him,” Maria smiles. Alan, 17 years old, has Down’s Syndrome, and the youngster has completed level six of a coding course, and his appetite for the subject is becoming elephantine. A big hand in this transition, Maria says, is the inclusive tech education and mentorship that he has been getting. Alan has enrolled with HashHackCode, a Chennai-based edu-tech start-up that has nearly 50 persons with ASD, ADHD/ADD, Dyslexia, Down Syndrome, Hard of Hearing, Non-Verbal and other learning difficulties learning coding. The online advantage These one-to-one personalised classes has a parent and the student learning from a mentor. Since lockdown came into force, the classes are being conducted online. Preeti L., whose son is on the spectrum, says the virtual classes are a revelation. “The child studies from the comfort of their home, in a non-threatening environment, with a mentor to guide them,” says Preeti, a resident of T. Nagar. “There is a striking difference between how the child responds to in-person classes and online classes.” “Out of an ignorance about how computers could benefit my son, I failed to introduce him to applications other than Photoshop and MS Word. Now, I notice a great difference in him on account of the tech classes he is attending,” says Radha Nandakumar, whose son N. Arvind Kumar is non-verbal. When Radha enrolled him in the technology classes, there were two things she wanted him to overcome — typing speed and sitting tolerance. “My child is non-verbal since the age of four and I have been familiarising him with typing since then, but he was only using his index finger and sometimes expresses pain so I wanted him to be trained in using his other fingers too,” says Radha. The results are stark. Radha credits the mentor for this, right from her voice. “Children with auditory sensory problems cannot tolerate certain voices and we were lucky that Arvind liked his mentor, Aditi Bansal’s voice and her soft nature. That is a big reason why he now sits through the one-hour class,” says Radha, adding that of the 10 levels in the course Arvind has completed five. Independence Manu Sekar, CEO and founder of HashHackCode, says coding is a new-age skill and imparting coding skills to neuro-diverse individuals is going to give them a great deal of independence. “Parents have to start looking beyond jobs in retail and as data entry operators. Coding when taught differently offers a new pathway,” says 30-year-old Manu. All the classes are personalised and they encourage mothers also to be part of the sessions. The ability to type and operate a computer is all that is required for someone to start as a student. “We have a team of mentors who take the classes, all one-on-one and a majority of them are youngsters,” he says. Can special students master coding? Manu says that most of these neuro-diverse individuals have pattern recognition, sequencing and logical deduction skills, all of which are needed in mastering coding. By offering inclusive classes, HashHackCode is building a community of coders who will be ready to take up short-term projects, says Manu. Prem Sankar, the first student of the centre and an individual with ASD, recently launched his own website, codewithprem.in, where he takes up freelance assignments. Sankar designs and develops websites, and a few testimonials are proof of how well he does what he does.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/coding-gets-inclusive/article33261831.ece
06 December 2020||December 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Meals and commitment unlimited||Advanced age need not be a barrier to being of help to others: That is what S. Lakshmi, alias ‘Lakshmi paati’, and her husband, M. Subramanian, have proved through ‘Krithika Mess’. Patrons of Krithika Mess swear by the vegetarian food, which they find hygienic, invitingly inexpensive and filling, not to mention the sense of home that go with it. The mess is located at Pillayar Koil Street in Madipakkam, with the branch of Indian Overseas Bank serving as a landmark. Says Lakshmi, “My husband and I started the mess around 30 years ago to put aside some money regularly for our daughter S. Kasthuri’s marriage. Unfortunately, she passed on a couple of years ago due to brain tumour. My son S. Muthukumaran is working at New Delhi; his wife and children live in Kerala.” M. Subramanian has undergone a throat operation as treatment for cancer. He retired from the Department of Industries, Government of Tamil Nadu. The septuagenarian couple have not hired anyone to prepare the food. ‘Lakshmi patti’ gets up every day at 3 a.m., cuts the vegetables, and prepares the dishes for breakfast until 10 a.m. Her husband is at 4.30 a.m. every day, buys vegetables and provisions from the market. “I rest for some time around 11 a.m. before resuming the cooking chores to prepare the lunch for customers.” The couple serve ‘idly’, ‘dosai’, ‘pongal’, and ‘puri’ for breakfast; rice, ‘sambar’, ‘rasam’, ‘poriyal’, butter milk, ‘appalam’, and ‘vatha kuzhambu’ for lunch. For dinner, they prepare ‘chapati’, ‘idly’ and ‘dosai’. The unlimited meals (lunch) is priced at Rs. 50. Sunday is the only day they would allow themselves some rest, which is just partial rest — only breakfast is served. “We want to work till our health permits, and be self-reliant. Working to serve others makes me happy. There is not much income, but we are glad that people have filling food and are happy.” For youngsters, who are from other districts and cities across the State, the couple serve dinner until 11 p.m., sometimes, 12 a.m. “ We don’t cook separately for us. We eat whatever has been cooked in the mess for our customers. Our son was with us until August this year, when he relocated to New Delhi on account of work. He called us to stay with him, but I did not want to go. I want to serve my customers till my health permits. We should be self-reliant, and never get lazy.” S. Lakshmi can be contacted at 91760 87997.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/meals-and-commitment-unlimited/article33261839.ece
06 December 2020||December 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Laying the foundation of good gardening||Gardening begins with soil preparation. If it is about growing plants in pots, then it is a case of having ready a potting mix in the right combination and packed with all the necessary nutrients. The tips are based on the shared experiences about soil care in our group, Organic Garden Foundation. Before taking this step — the very first — it is necessary to ask ourselves three basic questions.  1.Is the soil porous and therefore, helps drain water? 2. Can the soil retain enoughmoisture ? 3. Does the soil contain all the essential nutrients? If the soil is too clayey or hardened, the roots would not spread and cannot breathe easily. The soil should also retain moisture and at the same time, make for water stagnation. In other words, the soil should not be too dry or too soggy. Moreover, if the soil is bare and does not have the necessary nutrients — Nitrogen, Phosphorus and Pottasium — it will not help in growth of the plant. An ideal potting mix would be about having a combination of garden soil or red soil, cocopeat and composted cowdung or vermi compost along with a few micro nutrients. The ratio to be followed here is — 1:1:1 For a 12x12 grow bag which would hold 15 kg of potting mix, we can prepare the mix in the following proportions. 1. For five kilograms of soil, have five kilograms of compost and fill the remaining portion with cocopeat. 2. Composted cowdung and vermi compost can also be added in the ratio of 2.5 kg each. 3. Along with the above micro nutrients like potash Mobiliser, Tricoderma, Azosphyrillium, and Pseudomonos can be added one teaspoon each and 100 grams of neem cake powder. The combination of all of the above would serve as a well-balanced power-packed nutritious feed for the plant. The active microbiological processes help the plant roots absorb the required nutrients and make for overall healthy plant growth , flowering and fruiting resulting in a good yield. Nutrients like Amirthskaraisal, Jeevamirtham, Gana Jeevamirtham, Panchagavya and waste decomposer should be administered periodically on a calendarised basis as foliar spray and also as a soil applicator.  (Raghu Kumar   is an admin of   the Facebook group   Organic Garden Foundation)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/laying-the-foundation-of-good-gardening/article33261801.ece
06 December 2020||December 06 2020 00:00 IST,||A toy library in Muttukadu for children with multiple disabilities||Bright rubber mats drape the floor and racks around the room are stacked with eye-catching toys. Sensitive to sound, touch and light, these toys develop motor skills, and children with multiple disabilities. As part of the International Day of Persons with Disabilities, on December 3, this new toy library was inaugurated at The Model School for Children with Multiple Disabilities, which functions on the campus of the National Institute for Empowerment of Persons with Multiple Disabilities (NIEPMD) in Muttukadu. Nachiket Rout, Director of NIEPMD, inaugurated the toy library. Students do not have to wait till for the school to reopen next year to use the toy library. School authorities are allowing parents to pick up these special toys to complement online learning. Currently, children attend online classes that combine 3D and 2D technology. “It is a humble start and we plan to keep adding toys in the months to come. As of now, our plan is to issue toys, just like books, to children based on their level of functioning, learning objectives and their interest levels,” says B. Leelavathi, who is in-charge of the Model School for Children with Multiple Disabilities, adding that 130 children with multiple disabilities are currently enrolled with the school. “The idea behind sending relevant toys home is also to instil in them a sense of ownership about them,” she says. The special teachers at the school would demonstrate to parents how the toys should be used to meet each child’s learning target. The toys can be returned after two weeks and they would be sanitised and reissued to another child. NIEPMD also invites individuals and organisations who wish to donate toys of this kind to the library.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-toy-library-in-muttukadu-for-children-with-multiple-disabilities/article33261827.ece
06 December 2020||December 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Octogenarian runs lending library, taking the pandemic in her stride||K.P. Neelamani was a renowned Tamil writer and he also distinguished himself as a small entrepreneur. A small lending library on Mandaveli Street is his claim to entrepreneurial glory. Decades ago, I was part of a group of youngsters — average age somewhere in the mid-twenties — that frequented the library. Neelamani was of a friendly disposition, and was open to having a light-hearted conversation with us, as we browsed through the collection. After his demise, his wife Janaki Neelamani took over the reins of the lending library — named ‘Leo Library’ — and has had a set of loyal customers continuing to patronise it. She brings a lot of discipline to how she runs the library, which is set in a space that is less that 100 sq.ft. She would open the facility on the dot at 9 a.m., every day. The library would be closed for a while around noon when she would take a break, and reopened for business, it would continue to stay open until 7 p.m. depending on footfall. Except for a few months, those involving the early phases of the lockdown, she has kept the library running. She charges a nominal Rs. 100 as membership fee which is significantly lower than what is charged by other lending libraries. Only Tamil books are lent. Recently, when I visited the library, she spoke with great affection, having remembered that I used to frequent the library decades ago. As she is 84 years old, her memory is indeed really sharp. She was even aware of my membership number — 100. I would like our friends to once again patronise the lending library and that would the greater honour one would extend a lady who had displayed impressive initiative and grit. There is a lot that youngsters can learn from her life. When I offered to become a member of the lending library once again, by paying a membership fee afresh, she flatly refused to take the fee. When she created a fresh membership card, she reminded me that my membership — which came at a measly fee of Rs. 10, thirty years ago — still holds good, and that I would be an esteemed member of the library. The library is located near the Mandaveli Market opposite CC Bank.  (Baskar Seshadri is a volunteer-writer)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/octogenarian-runs-lending-library-taking-the-pandemic-in-her-stride/article33261838.ece
06 December 2020||December 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Inundation brings residents together||The Federation of Perumbakkam Residents Welfare Association is meeting on December 6 at BTD Esplanade on Varathapuram Main Road in Nesamani Nagar to discuss factors that caused flooding in Perumbakkam and chalk out a strategy to prevent flooding in the future. According to the Federation’s office-bearers, around 30 percent of Perumbakkam was flooded following the showers from November 24 to 26. Following a breach in Madurapakkam Lake, the Sholinganallur-Medavakkam Road was closed for vehicular traffic for four days. The surplus water from the waterbody gushed through Pallikaranai marshland, say Federation members. Due to heavy rains, Perumbakkam Periya Eri reached its full capacity and surplus water that had to be released, flowed through the Pallikaranai Marshland and Okkiyam Maduvu, before draining into the Bay of Bengal. The Federation has formed a committee that would visit and survey certain earkmarked areas to understand the reasons for flooding. The committee will prepare a report to be submitted to the Chengalpattu District Collectorate, within a month, says the Federation.  Following a breach in the Madurapakkam lake, Sholinganallur-Medavakkam Road was closed for vehicular traffic for four days, say residents||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/inundation-brings-residents-together/article33261811.ece
06 December 2020||December 06 2020 00:00 IST,||He continues to put his stamp on a neighbourhood||Many in Mylapore have likely bought stamp paper from Rouf Basha. For more than two decades, he operates as a stamp paper vendor at Paripoorna Vinayagar Koil Street, near Rayars Cafe on Arundale Street, functioning from his house that doubles as a shop. Recently, overpowered by nostalgia, he narrated to me how chance, not choice led him into the profession, and that his enthusiasm for it is intense as when he first began. Rouf is 75 years old. “Ask for any stamp paper, any denomination and I will have it,” says Rouf. When he had not stocked up on the stamp paper you are looking for, he would go to the trouble of sourcing it for you the next day. His shop is open from 9 a.m. to 1 p.m. and again, from 3 p.m. to 8 p.m. He has visitors knocking at his door even at 11 p.m asking for stamp papers, and he also sells non-judicial stamp, notarial stamp, share stamp and insurance stamp. The pandemic had dealt him a huge blow, as real estate transactions have dwindled, but in the last one month, things are looking up. Property registrations have started, and people have started knocking at Rouf’s place for stamp papers and anything that they may need for submission of documents. The precautions he has put in place to carry out his work are impressive. Though of restricted dimensions, his shop shows signs of COVID-19 protocols being followed diligently. He gets visitors to use a sanitiser dispenser, and makes sure people do not crowd at his shop. “I allow only one person to come inside at a time, and all the others have to wait outside,” he says. “Of course, I wear my mask and make sure everyone entering my shop wears one too.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/he-continues-to-put-his-stamp-on-a-neighbourhood/article33261841.ece
06 December 2020||December 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Workshop on terrace gardening at Guindy||Tamil Nadu Agricultural University Information & Training Centre is conducting a workshop on terrace gardening on December 8. Another workshop on baking and confectioneries will be held on December 10. The session will be held at the centre’s premises in Guindy. Time: From 10 a.m. to 3.30 p.m. For registration and other details, call 044 – 2225 0511 / 2250 1960.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/workshop-on-terrace-gardening-at-guindy/article33261803.ece
06 December 2020||December 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Online skill training programme for women||As part of a CSR initiative, Matrimony.com is conducting a free vocational skill development programme for women college students, in association with the voluntary organisation Hand in Hand India, . According to a press release, this women empowerment programme, offered online, runs for a duration of 45 days. The employment-enhancing programme can be availed by final-year under-graduate students. Participants will be trained in business mathematics, marketing, customer management and other skills that industries seek in young graduates, says Rajesh Balaji, CHRO – Matrimony.com. The candidates also get a certificate on the completion of the programme. To enrol and for other details, call 99946 70967; 95660 79338; 44- 6720 1000||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/online-skill-training-programme-for-women/article33261802.ece
06 December 2020||December 06 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Skill-based, flexible curriculum is needed’||The pandemic has brought to the fore the interest children and young adults with disabilities have in computer programming. Coding can be particularly useful for those on high-functioning autism spectrum. These children have significant visual-spatial skills, and they pay attention to minute details, having an enormous capacity for repetitive activities and acquiring logical skills, all of which are needed to understand coding. What they lack is social and communication skills, which is less interfering when they are working in front of the computer. Data shows that graduates on the spectrum, close to 80%, are not yet employed. Given their core social deficits, curriculum-based teaching is not enough to land them jobs. These differently-abled individuals need skill-based, flexible and user-friendly curriculum, so that they can learn it at their pace. For this, educational institutions have to be inclusive first and then introduce courses in programming for these individuals. We also need companies to offer them internships after they complete these courses. (Dr. N. Rajeshwari is Chief Consultant - Pediatrics and Developmental Neurologist, Head of Child Development Centre, Dr. KamakshiMemorial Hospitals)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/skill-based-flexible-curriculum-is-needed/article33261825.ece
06 December 2020||December 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Amur Falcon: Chennai gets off the mark||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/amur-falcon-chennai-gets-off-the-mark/article33261817.ece
06 December 2020||December 06 2020 00:00 IST,||He continues to put his stamp on a neighbourhood||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/he-continues-to-put-his-stamp-on-a-neighbourhood/article33261819.ece
06 December 2020||December 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Drawing strength from the community||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/drawing-strength-from-the-community/article33261815.ece
06 December 2020||December 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Laying the foundation of good gardening||Gardening begins with soil preparation. If it is about growing plants in pots, then it is a case of having ready a potting mix in the right combination and packed with all the necessary nutrients. The tips are based on the shared experiences about soil care in our group, Organic Garden Foundation. Before taking this step — the very first — it is necessary to ask ourselves three basic questions. 1. Is the soil porous and therefore, helps drain water? 2. Can the soil retain enoughmoisture ? 3. Does the soil contain all the essential nutrients? If the soil is too clayey or hardened, the roots would not spread and cannot breathe easily. The soil should also retain moisture and at the same time, make for water stagnation. In other words, the soil should not be too dry or too soggy. Moreover, if the soil is bare and does not have the necessary nutrients — Nitrogen, Phosphorus and Pottasium — it will not help in growth of the plant. An ideal potting mix would be about having a combination of garden soil or red soil, cocopeat and composted cowdung or vermi compost along with a few micro nutrients. The ratio to be followed here is — 1:1:1 For a 12x12 grow bag which would hold 15 kg of potting mix, we can prepare the mix in the following proportions. 1. For five kilograms of soil, have five kilograms of compost and fill the remaining portion with cocopeat. 2. Composted cowdung and vermi compost can also be added in the ratio of 2.5 kg each. 3. Along with the above micro nutrients like potash Mobiliser, Tricoderma, Azosphyrillium, and Pseudomonos can be added one teaspoon each and 100 grams of neem cake powder. The combination of all of the above would serve as a well-balanced power-packed nutritious feed for the plant. The active microbiological processes help the plant roots absorb the required nutrients and make for overall healthy plant growth , flowering and fruiting resulting in a good yield. Nutrients like Amirthskaraisal, Jeevamirtham, Gana Jeevamirtham, Panchagavya and waste decomposer should be administered periodically on a calendarised basis as foliar spray and also as a soil applicator.  (Raghu Kumar   is an admin of the Facebook group   Organic Garden Foundation)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/laying-the-foundation-of-good-gardening/article33261844.ece
06 December 2020||December 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Is this area an accident spot?||Mirsahibpet market at Peters Road in Royapettah, a go-to place for those looking to buy alternative medicines, among other things, often has visitors coming face-to-face with the fact walking on the stretch around it is fraught with risk. The stretch is narrow; and the speed breakers on both ends lack zebra markings. The steel median on the stretch should be extended further, and a provision for parking has to be created, say motorists. A motorcyclist who takes this stretch frequently points out that the problems plaguing this road are months-old. “It all began after a road-cut work was carried out on the stretch outside the market. The surface of the road was filled with concrete, but it was done so badly that it resembled a badly-constructed speed breaker. Those battling a back pain will see their problem aggravated, if they take this road,” says the motorcyclist. Those working at the shops in the area point out that on an average, every day, at least two motorcyclists have a fall hitting this “speed bump”. The stretch provides access to major neighbourhoods in the region. There is a raft of landmark buildings, much-visited and therefore contributing to the traffic congestion on the stretch. At present, traffic police personnel can be spotted at the Big Mosque intersection opposite the Ice House police station, but not near the market area.  “Widening of the stormwater drains on the stretch has only helped local traders as they have extended their shops, forcing pedestrians to walk on the carriageway. Through the day, there is chaotic traffic near the market,” says Mohammad Afsar, a motorist from Royapettah.  “Steps will be taken to ease the traffic flow on the stretch around the market soon,” say police sources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/is-this-area-an-accident-spot/article33261856.ece
06 December 2020||December 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Drawing strength from the community during a pandemic||After three days punctuated with false starts, there is finally some uninterrupted conversation with Mano Ranjani, one that lasts five minutes. On the first occasion, a bawling two-year-old intruded upon the call, leading Ranjani to abruptly disconnect it to attend to the crisis at hand. Later, Ranjani texts to explain why a complete chat would have to wait still: she was shifting home, had to take her father to the hospital; and a mother of three, her eldest child is 11-years-old and autistic. Every evening, Ranjani has a volunteer coming home to engage with her older child. “That is the only time I manage to find some rest,” she says. Despite the challenges thrown up by the pandemic — which requires her to play teacher and therapist at home — Ranjani continues to moderate seven WhatsApp groups under what is known as VOICE (Voice of Parents for Inclusion, Care and Empowerment of Children with Special Needs). The four-year-old support group for parents of children having intellectual disabilities was started with 10 other parents. Now VOICE has grown to nearly 2,000 parents. Before the pandemic, parents would meet once in two months at Loyola College for a discussion, which was made possible by volunteers who would look after the children. “There are days when the interactions never seem to cease, but that is the best aspect of being in a support group,” says Ranjani, adding that one comes across many other parents who face challenges that are so similar yet distinctly unique. “Through these interactions, we draw strength from the community,” adds Ranjani. Vimal Balachander, an active member of the parent support group SCAN (Special Child Assistance Network), which has over 3000 members on its Facebook page, points out that everybody is feeling emotionally vulnerable due to the pandemic, but the activities and live calls, made possible by support groups enable them to brave through the challenging times. “We don’t do everything ourselves, by encouraging others it becomes a mood booster,” says Vimal. Vimal explains how a monthly conversation series started by a parent, Suja Shyamsundar, is helping members cope with the situation. She adds that the responsibilities of keeping the series going are shared, with some offering tech support, and others preparing posters and circulating them among groups. There are other activities like quizzes and antakshari organised by other members. Vimal cites the example of how parents of special children have benefited from Delhi-based Shalu Sharma. “During the lockdown, Shalu Sharma engaged many special children with easy-to-do activities,” she says. A common question One question that most support groups has been trying to answer now: ‘How to enable the child and the caregiver to keep up the motivation level during these challenging times?’ Ranjani points out that without a support system at home, continually monitoring children can be tiresome. VOICE has been receiving many requests from parents looking for volunteers who can come home and keep the child engaged. There are groups that see how best children can be engaged online. Since the lockdown began, Mala Chinnappa, who conducts ‘A Brush With Art (ABWA)’ along with Jyotsna Srinivasan and Priya Badri at Cholamandal Artists Village, has moved the programme online. “We kept the format the same: one-on-one class, 40 minutes and very gentle guidance, and were surprised to find our children work independently and were joyfully engaged. The moms gently assisting without getting in the way of the free exploration was another beautiful development. The art of stepping back, letting go is difficult to practise, the moms are definitely getting there,” says Mala, a resident of ECR. Mala and Chinnappa, who run aSPECIALworld, a forum for children with special needs that they started in 2015, feels sustaining online interactions is less challenging now than that they were before the pandemic. “Previously, there was the difficulty of sending the child to school; and the challenge of getting the child to take up any online activity that is offered. Now, the parent and the child have more time at their disposal, and there is also the greater choice in terms of finding the activities that best suit the child. It is like a fog has lifted off from them,” says Mala, an advertisement professional and the mother of a special child. The challenges Keeping an online support group active takes some doing. Mala underlines the work that goes on silently behind the scenes to keep the support group running. “My husband Chinna moderates the Facebook group. On an average, we get 15 posts every day, which he clears before posting. We focus considerably on checking the facts and claims in a post. During the lockdown, we have been ruthless in hacking down posts that may start with good intention, but their suggestions may not be scientifically proven. Sometimes, we even have a discussion with the practitioners before promoting their content,” says Mala. The Facebook group has been growing. Says Mala, “As you get larger, your visibility increases, and along with it, the level of responsibility and accountability.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/drawing-strength-from-the-community-during-a-pandemic/article33261862.ece
06 December 2020||December 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Old Mint bus terminus is up and running now||The old bus terminus on Old Jail Road in Mint has been restored with basic facilities, which include steel shelters, bus bays, concrete flooring, lighting and a seating arrangement for commuters. Chennai Metro Rail Limited (CMRL) carried out the restoration of the terminus during the lockdown months, honouring the terms of an agreement with Greater Chennai Corporation. CMRL had acquired land from the terminus for the construction of a Metro Rail station. Following the restoration, a limited number of bus services are being operated mainly to Broadway, Central railway station, Egmore, Perambur and T. Nagar as feeder services to ensure last-mile connectivity for train commuters at the adjacent Metro Rail station. “Having a full-time time-keeper, and providing adequate information about the bus services being operated from the terminus would further help train commuters from the Metro Rail station board buses comfortably at the facility,” says S. Pooja, a commuter from Royapuram. Currently, on an average, 540 trips are being made by 96 buses that are operated from the temporary terminus located near the Basin Bridge junction every day, providing crucial connectivity for many people from Mint and adjoining areas like Seven Wells, George Town, Basin Bridge and Old Washermenpet to reach other parts of the city via Broadway and Central railway station. Some of these bus services are now being operated from the renovated bus terminus near the Metro rail Station on Old Jail Road. The Mint bus terminus, which was named after the first mint was operated by the British in the 19th century, and it was transport hub as services to remote parts of the northern region of Chennai were operated.  Temporary terminus  When the old bus terminus became non-functional due to Metro Rail work, residents of interior parts of the northern region were able to reach the central parts of Chennai via Mint by boarding buses from the temporary terminus. This facility however lacked amenities. Set on an open space near the Basin Bridge junction, the temporary terminus lacks shelters, water taps, toilets, lighting or schedule boards. Due to the lack of shelters, many commuters prefer to wait for buses in front of a Corporation school, which is located opposite the terminus. The lone public toilet, which is an eyesore, is situated a few hundred metres from the terminus. At night, the temporary terminus is dark as the old sodium vapour street lights do not provide sufficient lighting. Waste including construction debris is dumped on the vacant plot between the terminus and the flyover. Due to the lack of proper toilet facilities, there is open urination. A majority of the buses operated from the temporary terminus were sent to MKB Nagar and Broadway terminuses to ensure their safety. Many commuters believe the renovated old terminus has the potential to serve them better. With the rise in the usage of Metro Rail services, more train commuters would board buses from the renovated old terminus. “Steps will be taken to operate more bus services from the renovated old bus terminus at Mint soon,” says a Corporation official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/old-mint-bus-terminus-is-up-and-running-now/article33261870.ece
06 December 2020||December 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Senior citizens run small enterprises, taking the pandemic in their stride||K.P. Neelamani was a renowned Tamil writer, who also distinguished himself as a small entrepreneur. A small lending library on Mandaveli Street is his claim to entrepreneurial glory. Decades ago, I was part of a group of youngsters — average age somewhere in the mid-twenties — that frequented the library. Neelamani was of a friendly disposition, and was open to having a light-hearted conversation with us, as we browsed through the collection. After his demise, his wife Janaki Neelamani took over the reins of the lending library — named ‘Leo Library’ — and has had a set of loyal customers continuing to patronise it. She brings a lot of discipline to how she runs the library, which is set in a space that is less that 100 sq.ft. She opens the facility on the dot at 9 a.m., every day. The library would be closed for a while around noon when she would take a break, and reopened for business, it would continue to stay open until 7 p.m. depending on footfall. Except for a few months, those involving the early phases of the lockdown, she has kept the library running. She charges a nominal Rs. 100 as membership fee which is significantly lower than what is charged by other lending libraries. Only Tamil books are lent. Recently, when I visited the library, she spoke with great affection, having remembered that I used to frequent the library decades ago. As she is 84 years old, her memory is indeed really sharp. She was even aware of my membership number — 100. I would like our friends to once again patronise the lending library and that would the greater honour one would extend a lady who had displayed impressive initiative and grit. There is a lot that youngsters can learn from her life. When I offered to become a member of the lending library once again, by paying a membership fee afresh, she flatly refused to take the fee. When she created a fresh membership card, she reminded me that my membership — which came at a measly fee of Rs. 10, thirty years ago — still holds good, and that I would be an esteemed member of the library. The library is located near the Mandaveli Market opposite CC Bank. *** Helpful attitude Many in Mylapore have likely bought stamp paper from Rouf Basha. For more than two decades, he operates as a stamp paper vendor at Paripoorna Vinayagar Koil Street, near Rayars Cafe on Arundale Street, functioning from his house that doubles as a shop. Recently, overpowered by nostalgia, he narrated to me how chance, not choice led him into the profession, and that his enthusiasm for it is intense as when he first began. Rouf is 75 years old. “Ask for any stamp paper, any denomination and I will have it,” says Rouf. When he has not stocked up on the stamp paper you are looking for, he would go to the trouble of sourcing it for you the next day. His shop is open from 9 a.m. to 1 p.m. and again, from 3 p.m. to 8 p.m. He has visitors knocking at his door even at 11 p.m asking for stamp papers, and he also sells non-judicial stamp, notarial stamp, share stamp and insurance stamp. The pandemic had dealt him a huge blow, as real estate transactions have dwindled, but in the last one month, things are looking up. Property registrations have started, and people have started knocking at Rouf’s place for stamp papers and anything that they may need for submission of documents. The precautions he has put in place to carry out his work are impressive. Though of restricted dimensions, his shop shows signs of COVID-19 protocols being followed diligently. He gets visitors to use a sanitiser dispenser, and makes sure people do not crowd at his shop. “I allow only one person to come inside at a time, and all the others have to wait outside,” he says. “Of course, I wear my mask and make sure everyone entering my shop wears one too.” *** A punishing schedule Easwari is well-known around the Chitrakulam area in Mylapore. Her family is known for its expertise in the kitchen and she runs a small mess in these parts. She is diligent in her work, and age — she is in her seventies — has not changed her punishing work schedule, one that she had imposed on herself decades ago. She has work timings that are set in stone, both in the morning and evening. She would begin her work on the dot, selling idlis and dosas and uppuma, and also has a knack for quickly assessing what combination of food items would sell the most at a particular hour. Easwari also cooks at a few houses for a few hours every day. (Baskar Seshadri is a resident of Mandaveli and a volunteer-writer)  She would begin her work on the dot, selling idlis and dosas, and also has a knack for quickly assessing what combination of food items would sell the most   She brings a lot of discipline to how she runs the library; she opens the facility on the dot at 9 a.m., every day   When he has not stocked up on the stamp paper you are looking for, he would go to the trouble of sourcing it for you the next day||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/senior-citizens-run-small-enterprises-taking-the-pandemic-in-their-stride/article33261850.ece
06 December 2020||December 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Amur Falcon: Chennai gets off the mark||Achieving three-digit speeds, Nivar led pelagic birds inland. However, in Chennai, the toast of post-Nivar birding was not any pelagic bird, but the Amur Falcon. Between November 26 and 27, three sightings of the Amur Falcon were recorded in Chennai. With that, the metro is off the mark, in terms of documented Amur Falcon sighings. On November 26, 2020, Rama Neelamegam saw an adult female Amur Falcon from her home on De Silva Road in Mylapore. On November 27, Sundaravel Palanivelu also saw an adult female Amur Falcon from his gated community on Third Main Road in Kamakotti Nagar, Pallikaranai. Both managed to photograph the bird they saw. Besides, on November 27, Srinivas Daripineni sighted a juvenile Amur Falcon at the Adyar Estuary. There is a reason to believe that Nivar nudged the Amur Falcon gently towards Chennai. Previous documented sightings closest to the metro actually are from areas well beyond it. “A few of my friends have seen the bird in Pulicat and near Sriperumbudur, but I have not seen it in and around Chennai,” says birder Gnanaskandan Kesavabharathi, who spearheaded an exercise by the Madras Naturalists Society in 2015-16 to create a raptor map for Chennai and surrounding areas.  With satellite tagging, Amur Falcon is “on a leash”, its movements tracked, as the bird migrates in thousands from its breeding grounds in south-eastern Siberia and northern China to South Africa, with an extended pit stop in the North-East, particularly Nagaland. And of course, with the same technology the bird’s reverse migration back to the Siberian-Chinese Far East had been studied equally well. Both ways, the bird is believed to hitch its wagon to monsoonal tailwinds. Satellite tagging creates a picture of not only their usual migratory pathways, but also the slight deviations from them, usually caused by weather systems. Sometimes, the birds just stay off the beaten track, for reasons that cannot be nailed easily. In both cases, these elegant birds of prey may find themselves unlikely pit-stops. Besides technology, citizen birders map the Amur Falcon’s most-favoured stopovers on its migration route, as well as its adventitious detours. Gnanaskandan points out that when these birds end their sojourn in Nagaland — which he calls the “hop-on point” on their migration route — “most of them catch the north-east wind current”. When the journey has taken them to the west coast, they find many halting points. “West coast is where they stop noticeably — they would be sighted in areas along the Maharashtra Coast. In North Karnataka, they can be spotted in places like Hubli. Only very few come down south,” says Gnanaskandan, adding with some of the birds being satellite-tagged, there is reason to believe that these birds “cut across Hyderabad.” Gnanaskandan believes that with Nivar, some birds got forced out of their usual course, and hence the Chennai sightings. However, that is not to say that these birds always require an adventitious event to elbow them off-course. “Some Amur Falcons go all the way to Andamans from the North-East — they would be very few in number though. From Andamans, they would head to their destination in South Africa. There are a few records of Amur Falcons being sighted in the Andamans. There are records of Amur Falcon sightings on ships too,” elaborates Gnanaskandan. When they come in small numbers — twos and threes — they may be inclined to stay on at a place for a few days, says Ganaskandan, drawing attention to how a female Amur Falcon, four years ago, pitched tent in Pulicat for “three to four days”. There is photographic documentation of this sighting in eBird — one record is the entry dated November 6, 2016 of a female Amur Falcon being seen at Pulicat by birder Aravind Amirthraj. Worn to a frazzle due to a cyclone, Amur Falcons can have an extended stopover, refuel, regain their energy and resume their journey. Gnanaskandan points out that in December 2016, huge flocks of Amur Falcons were found in south Tamil Nadu — at Vijayanarayanam tank, close to Tirunelveli. “My eBird listing shows close to 80 Amur Falcons on December 20, 2016. Around the same time, good sightings of the Amur Falcon were happening around Malampuzha dam in Kerala as well,” he says. During that season, Amur Falcons were having an extended sojourn at Vijayanarayanam tank. Says Gnanaskandan, “Till mid-January, 2017 the sightings were happening. To my knowledge, that is the biggest flock of Amur Falcons sighted in Tamil Nadu. It gave an opportunity for people in Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Karnataka to see this beautiful bird of prey.”  (‘Migrant Watch’ is a column about birds that visit Chennai during winter)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/amur-falcon-chennai-gets-off-the-mark/article33261866.ece
06 December 2020||December 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Coding gets inclusive||Alan George recently messaged ‘Manu sir’ from his mother Maria Priya’s phone and asked for a coding-related assignment. “He was asked to draw a pattern consisting of various shapes and sizes. He did it almost entirely by himself,” says Maria, a faculty at Loyola College, of the assignment Alan received from his coding mentor. Never before has he managed classes on his own, always requiring his mother to sit with him. “Now, he does not allow me to sit with him for the classes and closes the door so that I do not interrupt him,” Maria smiles. Alan, 17 years old, has Down’s Syndrome, and the youngster has completed level six of a coding course, and his appetite for the subject is becoming elephantine. A big hand in this transition, Maria says, is the inclusive tech education and mentorship that he has been getting. Alan has enrolled with HashHackCode, a Chennai-based edu-tech start-up that has nearly 50 persons with ASD, ADHD/ADD, Dyslexia, Down Syndrome, Hard of Hearing, Non-Verbal and other learning difficulties learning coding. The online advantage These one-to-one personalised classes has a parent and the student learning from a mentor. Since lockdown came into force, the classes are being conducted online. Preeti L., whose son is on the spectrum, says the virtual classes are a revelation. “The child studies from the comfort of their home, in a non-threatening environment, with a mentor to guide them,” says Preeti, a resident of T. Nagar. “There is a striking difference between how the child responds to in-person classes and online classes.” “Out of an ignorance about how computers could benefit my son, I failed to introduce him to applications other than Photoshop and MS Word. Now, I notice a great difference in him on account of the tech classes he is attending,” says Radha Nandakumar, whose son N. Arvind Kumar is non-verbal. When Radha enrolled him in the technology classes, there were two things she wanted him to overcome — typing speed and sitting tolerance. “My child is non-verbal since the age of four and I have been familiarising him with typing since then, but he was only using his index finger and sometimes expresses pain so I wanted him to be trained in using his other fingers too,” says Radha. The results are stark. Radha credits the mentor for this, right from her voice. “Children with auditory sensory problems cannot tolerate certain voices and we were lucky that Arvind liked his mentor, Aditi Bansal’s voice and her soft nature. That is a big reason why he now sits through the one-hour class,” says Radha, adding that of the 10 levels in the course Arvind has completed five. Independence Manu Sekar, CEO and founder of HashHackCode, says coding is a new-age skill and imparting coding skills to neuro-diverse individuals is going to give them a great deal of independence. “Parents have to start looking beyond jobs in retail and as data entry operators. Coding when taught differently offers a new pathway,” says 30-year-old Manu. All the classes are personalised and they encourage mothers also to be part of the sessions. The ability to type and operate a computer is all that is required for someone to start as a student. “We have a team of mentors who take the classes, all one-on-one and a majority of them are youngsters,” he says. Can special students master coding? Manu says that most of these neuro-diverse individuals have pattern recognition, sequencing and logical deduction skills, all of which are needed in mastering coding. By offering inclusive classes, HashHackCode is building a community of coders who will be ready to take up short-term projects, says Manu. Prem Sankar, the first student of the centre and an individual with ASD, recently launched his own website, codewithprem.in, where he takes up freelance assignments. Sankar designs and develops websites, and a few testimonials are proof of how well he does what he does.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/coding-gets-inclusive/article33261865.ece
06 December 2020||December 06 2020 00:00 IST,||A toy library in Muttukadu for children with multiple disabilities||Bright rubber mats drape the floor and racks around the room are stacked with eye-catching toys. Sensitive to sound, touch and light, these toys develop motor skills, and children with multiple disabilities. As part of the International Day of Persons with Disabilities, on December 3, this new toy library was inaugurated at The Model School for Children with Multiple Disabilities, which functions on the campus of the National Institute for Empowerment of Persons with Multiple Disabilities (NIEPMD) in Muttukadu. Nachiket Rout, Director of NIEPMD, inaugurated the toy library. Students do not have to wait till for the school to reopen next year to use the toy library. School authorities are allowing parents to pick up these special toys to complement online learning. Currently, children attend online classes that combine 3D and 2D technology. “It is a humble start and we plan to keep adding toys in the months to come. As of now, our plan is to issue toys, just like books, to children based on their level of functioning, learning objectives and their interest levels,” says B. Leelavathi, who is in-charge of the Model School for Children with Multiple Disabilities, adding that 130 children with multiple disabilities are currently enrolled with the school. “The idea behind sending relevant toys home is also to instil in them a sense of ownership about them,” she says. The special teachers at the school would demonstrate to parents how the toys should be used to meet each child’s learning target. The toys can be returned after two weeks and they would be sanitised and reissued to another child. NIEPMD also invites individuals and organisations who wish to donate toys of this kind to the library.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-toy-library-in-muttukadu-for-children-with-multiple-disabilities/article33261864.ece
06 December 2020||December 06 2020 00:00 IST,||You can be our volunteer-writer||Dear readers, you can be our volunteer-writer by writing to us about issues and events in your neighbourhood. You should send the write-ups to downtown feedback@ thehindu.co.in. Letters must carry the postal address and contact number. Here’s a short note on the basic building blocks of any short news feature. a) The lead is the first section of an article, and leads that narrate a human situation work the best. b) The next element is the cosmic paragraph, in which you give the overall picture. c) News features have to be factually-grounded and the central portion, which will consist of a few paragraphs, should support the anecdotal paragraph and the cosmic paragraph.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/you-can-be-our-volunteer-writer/article33261857.ece
06 December 2020||December 06 2020 00:00 IST,||A project to document Mylapore||The Alliance & Co., a century year-old old publishing company based in Mylapore, is working on two books that will delve into the history of Chennai. One book is about Madras; and the other is about Mylapore, for which it is seeking old photos from people. “This is a project that I started some years ago; but I could not complete it as I did not get enough photographs. So, this is one more attempt to ask people and institutions to share photos of the past,” says V. Srinivasan, who runs the book house. Old buildings, temples and landscapes that would talk about how the neighbourhood evolved are what they are looking for. “The stretch from our office to Luz Corner was widened more than 40 years ago. If someone has a picture of the road we would like to document it for the book. Besides, the old pavilion at P.S. High School is a rare shot,” says Srinivasan. He says as a publishing house they have a good collection of old photographs but are looking for more. “We have been approaching old studios in Mylapore to find some rare photos and we have got some,” he says. Ganamanjari Sampath Kumar has submitted the manuscript for the book. Those keen on sharing old photographs can contact Srinivasan at 24641314.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-project-to-document-mylapore/article33261845.ece
06 December 2020||December 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Online skill training programme for women||As part of a CSR initiative, Matrimony.com is conducting a free vocational skill development programme for women college students, in association with the voluntary organisation Hand in Hand India, . According to a press release, this women empowerment programme, offered online, runs for a duration of 45 days. The employment-creation by final-year under-graduate students. Participants will be trained in business mathematics, marketing, customer management and other skills that industries seek in young graduates, says Rajesh Balaji, CHRO – Matrimony.com. The candidates also get a certificate on the completion of the programme. To enrol and for other details, call 99946 70967; 95660 79338; 44- 6720 1000.  The programme can be availed by final-year under-graduate students||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/online-skill-training-programme-for-women/article33261867.ece
06 December 2020||December 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Workshop on terrace gardening at Guindy||Tamil Nadu Agricultural University Information & Training Centre is conducting a workshop on terrace gardening on December 8. Another workshop on baking and confectioneries will be held on December 10. The session will be held at the centre’s premises in Guindy. Time: From 10 a.m. to 3.30 p.m. For registration and other details, call 044 – 2225 0511 / 2250 1960.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/workshop-on-terrace-gardening-at-guindy/article33261868.ece
06 December 2020||December 06 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Skill-based, flexible curriculum is needed’||The pandemic has brought to the fore the interest children and young adults with disabilities have in computer programming. Coding can be particularly useful for those on high-functioning autism spectrum. These children have significant visual-spatial skills, and they pay attention to minute details, having an enormous capacity for repetitive activities and acquiring logical skills, all of which are needed to understand coding. What they lack is social and communication skills, which is less interfering when they are working in front of the computer. Data shows that graduates on the spectrum, close to 80%, are not yet employed. Given their core social deficits, curriculum-based teaching is not enough to land them jobs. These differently-abled individuals need skill-based, flexible and user-friendly curriculum, so that they can learn it at their pace. For this, educational institutions have to be inclusive first and then introduce courses in programming for these individuals. We also need companies to offer them internships after they complete these courses. (Dr. N. Rajeshwari is Chief Consultant - Pediatrics and Developmental Neurologist, Head of Child Development Centre, Dr. KamakshiMemorial Hospitals)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/skill-based-flexible-curriculum-is-needed/article33261863.ece
06 December 2020||December 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Coding gets inclusive||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/coding-gets-inclusive/article33261858.ece
06 December 2020||December 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Amur Falcon: Chennai gets off the mark||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/amur-falcon-chennai-gets-off-the-mark/article33261859.ece
06 December 2020||December 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Old Mint bus terminus renovated||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/old-mint-bus-terminus-renovated/article33261861.ece
06 December 2020||December 06 2020 00:00 IST,||shades of a monsoon||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/shades-of-a-monsoon/article33261847.ece
06 December 2020||December 06 2020 00:00 IST,||A SEA OF WATER||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-sea-of-water/article33261854.ece
06 December 2020||December 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Laying the foundation of good gardening||Gardening begins with soil preparation. If it is about growing plants in pots, then it is a case of having ready a potting mix in the right combination and packed with all the necessary nutrients. The tips are based on the shared experiences about soil care in our group, Organic Garden Foundation. Before taking this step — the very first — it is necessary to ask ourselves three basic questions. 1. Is the soil porous and therefore, helps drain water? 2. Can the soil retain enoughmoisture ? 3. Does the soil contain all the essential nutrients? If the soil is too clayey or hardened, the roots would not spread and cannot breathe easily. The soil should also retain moisture and at the same time, make for water stagnation. In other words, the soil should not be too dry or too soggy. Moreover, if the soil is bare and does not have the necessary nutrients — Nitrogen, Phosphorus and Pottasium — it will not help in growth of the plant. An ideal potting mix would be about having a combination of garden soil or red soil, cocopeat and composted cowdung or vermi compost along with a few micro nutrients. The ratio to be followed here is — 1:1:1 For a 12x12 grow bag which would hold 15 kg of potting mix, we can prepare the mix in the following proportions. 1. For five kilograms of soil, have five kilograms of compost and fill the remaining portion with cocopeat. 2. Composted cowdung and vermi compost can also be added in the ratio of 2.5 kg each. 3. Along with the above micro nutrients like potash Mobiliser, Tricoderma, Azosphyrillium, and Pseudomonos can be added one teaspoon each and 100 grams of neem cake powder. The combination of all of the above would serve as a well-balanced power-packed nutritious feed for the plant. The active microbiological processes help the plant roots absorb the required nutrients and make for overall healthy plant growth , flowering and fruiting resulting in a good yield. Nutrients like Amirthskaraisal, Jeevamirtham, Gana Jeevamirtham, Panchagavya and waste decomposer should be administered periodically on a calendarised basis as foliar spray and also as a soil applicator.  (Raghu Kumar is an admin of the Facebook group Organic Garden Foundation)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/laying-the-foundation-of-good-gardening/article33261872.ece
06 December 2020||December 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Drawing strength from the community during a pandemic||After three days punctuated with false starts, there is finally some uninterrupted conversation with Mano Ranjani, one that lasts five minutes. On the first occasion, a bawling two-year-old intruded upon the call, leading Ranjani to abruptly disconnect it to attend to the crisis at hand. Later, Ranjani texts to explain why a complete chat would have to wait still: she was shifting home, had to take her father to the hospital; and a mother of three, her eldest child is 11-years-old and autistic. Every evening, Ranjani has a volunteer coming home to engage with her older child. “That is the only time I manage to find some rest,” she says. Despite the challenges thrown up by the pandemic — which requires her to play teacher and therapist at home — Ranjani continues to moderate seven WhatsApp groups under what is known as VOICE (Voice of Parents for Inclusion, Care and Empowerment of Children with Special Needs). The four-year-old support group for parents of children having intellectual disabilities was started with 10 other parents. Now VOICE has grown to nearly 2,000 parents. Before the pandemic, parents would meet once in two months at Loyola College for a discussion, which was made possible by volunteers who would look after the children. “There are days when the interactions never seem to cease, but that is the best aspect of being in a support group,” says Ranjani, adding that one comes across many other parents who face challenges that are so similar yet distinctly unique. “Through these interactions, we draw strength from the community,” adds Ranjani. Vimal Balachander, an active member of the parent support group SCAN (Special Child Assistance Network), which has over 3000 members on its Facebook page, points out that everybody is feeling emotionally vulnerable due to the pandemic, but the activities and live calls, made possible by support groups enable them to brave through the challenging times. “We don’t do everything ourselves, by encouraging others it becomes a mood booster,” says Vimal. Vimal explains how a monthly conversation series started by a parent, Suja Shyamsundar, is helping members cope with the situation. She adds that the responsibilities of keeping the series going are shared, with some offering tech support, and others preparing posters and circulating them among groups. There are other activities like quizzes and antakshari organised by other members. Vimal cites the example of how parents of special children have benefited from Delhi-based Shalu Sharma. “During the lockdown, Shalu Sharma engaged many special children with easy-to-do activities,” she says. A common question One question that most support groups has been trying to answer now: ‘How to enable the child and the caregiver to keep up the motivation level during these challenging times?’ Ranjani points out that without a support system at home, continually monitoring children can be tiresome. VOICE has been receiving many requests from parents looking for volunteers who can come home and keep the child engaged. There are groups that see how best children can be engaged online. Since the lockdown began, Mala Chinnappa, who conducts ‘A Brush With Art (ABWA)’ along with Jyotsna Srinivasan and Priya Badri at Cholamandal Artists Village, has moved the programme online. “We kept the format the same: one-on-one class, 40 minutes and very gentle guidance, and were surprised to find our children work independently and were joyfully engaged. The moms gently assisting without getting in the way of the free exploration was another beautiful development. The art of stepping back, letting go is difficult to practise, the moms are definitely getting there,” says Mala, a resident of ECR. Mala and Chinnappa, who run aSPECIALworld, a forum for children with special needs that they started in 2015, feels sustaining online interactions is less challenging now than that they were before the pandemic. “Previously, there was the difficulty of sending the child to school; and the challenge of getting the child to take up any online activity that is offered. Now, the parent and the child have more time at their disposal, and there is also the greater choice in terms of finding the activities that best suit the child. It is like a fog has lifted off from them,” says Mala, an advertisement professional and the mother of a special child. The challenges Keeping an online support group active takes some doing. Mala underlines the work that goes on silently behind the scenes to keep the support group running. “My husband Chinna moderates the Facebook group. On an average, we get 15 posts every day, which he clears before posting. We focus considerably on checking the facts and claims in a post. During the lockdown, we have been ruthless in hacking down posts that may start with good intention, but their suggestions may not be scientifically proven. Sometimes, we even have a discussion with the practitioners before promoting their content,” says Mala. The Facebook group has been growing. Says Mala, “As you get larger, your visibility increases, and along with it, the level of responsibility and accountability.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/drawing-strength-from-the-community-during-a-pandemic/article33261898.ece
06 December 2020||December 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Traffic hit on Madley Road due to tardy pace of pipeline work||Early this year, the Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply & Sewerage Board (CMWSSB) began pipeline-laying work between the subway and the intersection of Madley Road and South Usman Road flyover in T. Nagar, and the tardy pace of this work is having an effect on the traffic on this section. To facilitate the work, traffic has been closed on the stretch and only motorcyclists coming from Madley subway are allowed to reach the congested junction. It is a challenge for pedestrians to access the nearby MTC terminus in T. Nagar. With the northeast monsoon under way, and whenever it rains heavily, the junction of Madley Road near the MTC terminus gets chaotic during rush hour. “Bus drivers find it difficult to enter and leave the terminus due to the traffic chaos at the Madley Road junction. Early completion of the work will ease the traffic at the intersection,” says K. Subash, a resident of T. Nagar. The objective of the pipeline-laying work is to supply water to the tail-end areas in the neighbourhood. The intersection of Madley Road and South Usman Road flyover is key section, one that provides access to many areas on the western side. Built at a cost of Rs. 19.8 crore, the facility was opened in 2008. The two-way-flyover, maintained by Greater Chennai Corporation, on South Usman Road is 11 metres wide and around 800 metres long. The flyover has eased the traffic flow on the narrow South Usman Road especially at the Ranganathan Street intersection. A steel railing on both sides of the flyover has ensured that pedestrians can walk safely on the service lanes of the flyover without the traffic flow getting affected. However, the Madley Road intersection remains a major traffic bottleneck, mainly due to the slow progress on the pipeline work. Officials concerned said that the lack of adequate workers during the intense lockdown period was the reason for the slow progress of the pipeline work. “Steps will be taken to complete the work at the earliest,” says a Corporation official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/traffic-hit-on-madley-road-due-to-tardy-pace-of-pipeline-work/article33261877.ece
06 December 2020||December 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Amur Falcon: Chennai gets off the mark||Achieving three-digit speeds, Nivar led pelagic birds inland. However, in Chennai, the toast of post-Nivar birding was not any pelagic bird, but the Amur Falcon. Between November 26 and 27, three sightings of the Amur Falcon were recorded in Chennai. With that, the metro is off the mark, in terms of documented Amur Falcon sighings. On November 26, 2020, Rama Neelamegam saw an adult female Amur Falcon from her home on De Silva Road in Mylapore. On November 27, Sundaravel Palanivelu also saw an adult female Amur Falcon from his gated community on Third Main Road in Kamakotti Nagar, Pallikaranai. Both managed to photograph the bird they saw. Besides, on November 27, Srinivas Daripineni sighted a juvenile Amur Falcon at the Adyar Estuary. There is a reason to believe that Nivar nudged the Amur Falcon gently towards Chennai. Previous documented sightings closest to the metro actually are from areas well beyond it. “A few of my friends have seen the bird in Pulicat and near Sriperumbudur, but I have not seen it in and around Chennai,” says birder Gnanaskandan Kesavabharathi, who spearheaded an exercise by the Madras Naturalists Society in 2015-16 to create a raptor map for Chennai and surrounding areas.  With satellite tagging, Amur Falcon is “on a leash”, its movements tracked, as the bird migrates in thousands from its breeding grounds in south-eastern Siberia and northern China to South Africa, with an extended pit stop in the North-East, particularly Nagaland. And of course, with the same technology the bird’s reverse migration back to the Siberian-Chinese Far East had been studied equally well. Both ways, the bird is believed to hitch its wagon to monsoonal tailwinds. Satellite tagging creates a picture of not only their usual migratory pathways, but also the slight deviations from them, usually caused by weather systems. Sometimes, the birds just stay off the beaten track, for reasons that cannot be nailed easily. In both cases, these elegant birds of prey may find themselves unlikely pit-stops. Besides technology, citizen birders map the Amur Falcon’s most-favoured stopovers on its migration route, as well as its adventitious detours. Gnanaskandan points out that when these birds end their sojourn in Nagaland — which he calls the “hop-on point” on their migration route — “most of them catch the north-east wind current”. When the journey has taken them to the west coast, they find many halting points. “West coast is where they stop noticeably — they would be sighted in areas along the Maharashtra Coast. In North Karnataka, they can be spotted in places like Hubli. Only very few come down south,” says Gnanaskandan, adding with some of the birds being satellite-tagged, there is reason to believe that these birds “cut across Hyderabad.” Gnanaskandan believes that with Nivar, some birds got forced out of their usual course, and hence the Chennai sightings. However, that is not to say that these birds always require an adventitious event to elbow them off-course. “Some Amur Falcons go all the way to Andamans from the North-East — they would be very few in number though. From Andamans, they would head to their destination in South Africa. There are a few records of Amur Falcons being sighted in the Andamans. There are records of Amur Falcon sightings on ships too,” elaborates Gnanaskandan. When they come in small numbers — twos and threes — they may be inclined to stay on at a place for a few days, says Ganaskandan, drawing attention to how a female Amur Falcon, four years ago, pitched tent in Pulicat for “three to four days”. There is photographic documentation of this sighting in eBird — one record is the entry dated November 6, 2016 of a female Amur Falcon being seen at Pulicat by birder Aravind Amirthraj. Worn to a frazzle due to a cyclone, Amur Falcons can have an extended stopover, refuel, regain their energy and resume their journey. Gnanaskandan points out that in December 2016, huge flocks of Amur Falcons were found in south Tamil Nadu — at Vijayanarayanam tank, close to Tirunelveli. “My eBird listing shows close to 80 Amur Falcons on December 20, 2016. Around the same time, good sightings of the Amur Falcon were happening around Malampuzha dam in Kerala as well,” he says. During that season, Amur Falcons were having an extended sojourn at Vijayanarayanam tank. Says Gnanaskandan, “Till mid-January, 2017 the sightings were happening. To my knowledge, that is the biggest flock of Amur Falcons sighted in Tamil Nadu. It gave an opportunity for people in Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Karnataka to see this beautiful bird of prey.”  (‘Migrant Watch’ is a column about birds that visit Chennai during winter)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/amur-falcon-chennai-gets-off-the-mark/article33261902.ece
06 December 2020||December 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Residents of Mangadu recite a litany of woes about key road||Piled-up garbage is being set to fire on a section of Mangadu Main Road near Mangadu junction, posing a challenge to residents’ health. Garbage pile-ups attract strays, endangering the safety of motorists, residents point out. Besides, sewage is also being discharged into the vacant lands. Residents say that lined with a good number of commercial establishments, the road is narrow, congested and poorly-lit, especially around the junction. The road does have speed-breakers. But, due to the lack of zebra crossings, these are not clearly noticeable. There are repotedly instances of motorcyclists suffering skids and sustaining injuries. “Many a time, motorcyclists are caught unawares when stray animals run across the road and this has resulted in accidents. As it lacks sufficient illumination, the road poses greater challenge to motorists at night,” says K. Satish, a resident of Mangadau. Mangadu Main Road is a busy because is a key road in terms of connectivity from Mangadu to other significant localities in the region. Those travelling to Kancheepuram, Tiruvallur, Vellore, and Bengaluru pass through the junction on Mangadu Main Road. Besides, Mangadu Main Road is a lifeline for residents of neighbouring villages including Kollachery, Arambedu, Erumaiyur and Gerugambakkam. The road witnesses frequent movement of Metropolitan Transport Corporation buses. Despite such importance being enjoyed by the road, which comes under the purview of State Highways Department, it does not have adequate CCTV cameras A State Highways official says, “Necessary steps will be taken to make the road safe.”  “Sewage is being discharged into the vacant lands along the road and thereby contaminating groundwater”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/residents-of-mangadu-recite-a-litany-of-woes-about-key-road/article33261885.ece
06 December 2020||December 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Coding gets inclusive||Alan George recently messaged ‘Manu sir’ from his mother Maria Priya’s phone and asked for a coding-related assignment. “He was asked to draw a pattern consisting of various shapes and sizes. He did it almost entirely by himself,” says Maria, a faculty at Loyola College, of the assignment Alan received from his coding mentor. Never before has he managed classes on his own, always requiring his mother to sit with him. “Now, he does not allow me to sit with him for the classes and closes the door so that I do not interrupt him,” Maria smiles. Alan, 17 years old, has Down’s Syndrome, and the youngster has completed level six of a coding course, and his appetite for the subject is becoming elephantine. A big hand in this transition, Maria says, is the inclusive tech education and mentorship that he has been getting. Alan has enrolled with HashHackCode, a Chennai-based edu-tech start-up that has nearly 50 persons with ASD, ADHD/ADD, Dyslexia, Down Syndrome, Hard of Hearing, Non-Verbal and other learning difficulties learning coding. The online advantage These one-to-one personalised classes has a parent and the student learning from a mentor. Since lockdown came into force, the classes are being conducted online. Preeti L., whose son is on the spectrum, says the virtual classes are a revelation. “The child studies from the comfort of their home, in a non-threatening environment, with a mentor to guide them,” says Preeti, a resident of T. Nagar. “There is a striking difference between how the child responds to in-person classes and online classes.” “Out of an ignorance about how computers could benefit my son, I failed to introduce him to applications other than Photoshop and MS Word. Now, I notice a great difference in him on account of the tech classes he is attending,” says Radha Nandakumar, whose son N. Arvind Kumar is non-verbal. When Radha enrolled him in the technology classes, there were two things she wanted him to overcome — typing speed and sitting tolerance. “My child is non-verbal since the age of four and I have been familiarising him with typing since then, but he was only using his index finger and sometimes expresses pain so I wanted him to be trained in using his other fingers too,” says Radha. The results are stark. Radha credits the mentor for this, right from her voice. “Children with auditory sensory problems cannot tolerate certain voices and we were lucky that Arvind liked his mentor, Aditi Bansal’s voice and her soft nature. That is a big reason why he now sits through the one-hour class,” says Radha, adding that of the 10 levels in the course Arvind has completed five. Independence Manu Sekar, CEO and founder of HashHackCode, says coding is a new-age skill and imparting coding skills to neuro-diverse individuals is going to give them a great deal of independence. “Parents have to start looking beyond jobs in retail and as data entry operators. Coding when taught differently offers a new pathway,” says 30-year-old Manu. All the classes are personalised and they encourage mothers also to be part of the sessions. The ability to type and operate a computer is all that is required for someone to start as a student. “We have a team of mentors who take the classes, all one-on-one and a majority of them are youngsters,” he says. Can special students master coding? Manu says that most of these neuro-diverse individuals have pattern recognition, sequencing and logical deduction skills, all of which are needed in mastering coding. By offering inclusive classes, HashHackCode is building a community of coders who will be ready to take up short-term projects, says Manu. Prem Sankar, the first student of the centre and an individual with ASD, recently launched his own website, codewithprem.in, where he takes up freelance assignments. Sankar designs and develops websites, and a few testimonials are proof of how well he does what he does.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/coding-gets-inclusive/article33261901.ece
06 December 2020||December 06 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Trees at Kothari Nagar missed the pruning exercise’||On account of the showeres from November 24 to 26, a few trees got uprooted in and around Kothari Nagar, Ramapuram. Officials from the Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC), Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation Limited (Tangedco), and Greater Chennai Police arrived on time and made arrangements to clear the trees. While we are thankful for this, we cannot help but point out that had the GCC acted with alacrity when we made a request to it in September about organising a tree-pruning exercise, some tree falls could have been averted. After the resuest in September, on October 25, we gave a representation to the GCC listing out the streets and the exact spots with trees that had to be either pruned or removed. The proactive steps that we suggested to the government agency were not taken. It was a matter of serious concern for us, as the branches of some trees were running close to the live electricity cables. On November 25, an electricity pole bearing a live electricity cable fell on the road due to a precariously leaning tree. Reportedly, a few passers-by experienced shock. Fortunately, nothing untoward happened. Here, I would like to point out that a special circular from the GCC Commissioner that a committee formed for the purpose of tacking the challenges arising from the north-east monsoon should act upon such requests from people within six days. However, in our case, GCC failed to respond to our repeated requests. A. Paul Dhas is a president of Kothari Nagar Association||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/trees-at-kothari-nagar-missed-the-pruning-exercise/article33261893.ece
06 December 2020||December 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Meals and commitment unlimited||Advanced age need not be a barrier to being of help to others: That is what S. Lakshmi, alias ‘Lakshmi paati’, and her husband, M. Subramanian, have proved through ‘Krithika Mess’. Patrons of Krithika Mess swear by the vegetarian food, which they find hygienic, invitingly inexpensive and filling, not to mention the sense of home that go with it. The mess is located at Pillayar Koil Street in Madipakkam, with the branch of Indian Overseas Bank serving as a landmark. Says Lakshmi, “My husband and I started the mess around 30 years ago to put aside some money regularly for our daughter S. Kasthuri’s marriage. Unfortunately, she passed on a couple of years ago due to brain tumour. My son S. Muthukumaran is working at New Delhi; his wife and children live in Kerala.” M. Subramanian has undergone a throat operation as treatment for cancer. He retired from the Department of Industries, Government of Tamil Nadu. The septuagenarian couple have not hired anyone to prepare the food. ‘Lakshmi patti’ gets up every day at 3 a.m., cuts the vegetables, and prepares the dishes for breakfast until 10 a.m. Her husband is at 4.30 a.m. every day, buys vegetables and provisions from the market. “I rest for some time around 11 a.m. before resuming the cooking chores to prepare the lunch for customers.” The couple serve ‘idly’, ‘dosai’, ‘pongal’, and ‘puri’ for breakfast; rice, ‘sambar’, ‘rasam’, ‘poriyal’, butter milk, ‘appalam’, and ‘vatha kuzhambu’ for lunch. For dinner, they prepare ‘chapati’, ‘idly’ and ‘dosai’. The unlimited meals (lunch) is priced at Rs. 50. Sunday is the only day they would allow themselves some rest, which is just partial rest — only breakfast is served. “We want to work till our health permits, and be self-reliant. Working to serve others makes me happy. There is not much income, but we are glad that people have filling food and are happy.” For youngsters, who are from other districts and cities across the State, the couple serve dinner until 11 p.m., sometimes, 12 a.m. “ We don’t cook separately for us. We eat whatever has been cooked in the mess for our customers. Our son was with us until August this year, when he relocated to New Delhi on account of work. He called us to stay with him, but I did not want to go. I want to serve my customers till my health permits. We should be self-reliant, and never get lazy.” S. Lakshmi can be contacted at 91760 87997.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/meals-and-commitment-unlimited/article33261904.ece
06 December 2020||December 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Intersection in Kundrathur needs mending||Pockmarked with potholes, the Four Cross Road intersection in Kundrathur is gaining notoriety as an accident hotspot. There are many instances of motorcyclists suffering skids, especially at night. Similarly, pedestrians’ safety is also being compromised at the intersection. Due to the lack of footpaths, they walk in the narrow carriageway. Besides, there is an MTC bus stop near the intersection. There is no signboard announcing the presence of the bus-stop. The T-shaped intersection is located near the decades-old Sekkizhar Government Boys Higher Secondary School for over half-a-century providing bus connectivity to residents, who are mostly farmers, in the surrounding villages which include Kundrathur, Kovur, Gerugambakkam, Mogalivakkam and Porur. The intersection connects two key roads — Porur-Kundrathur Main Road and Mangadu-Kundrathur Main Road. “The carriageway at the intersection has completely worn out exposing the gravel sand under it. Without proper street lights, road users find it risky to use the intersection at night. Only a few commuters board buses from the bus stop at the intersection in the evening hours,” says K. Perumal, a commuter from Kundrathur. Called ‘Naal Road Junction’ — the ‘naal’ referring to four — the bus-stop serves commuters with bus services to many places including Tambaram, Chromepet, Vadapalani, Porur and Mandaveli. All buses from Poonamallee to Kundrathur halt at the bus stop; buses from Kundrathur to Vadapalani and beyond halt near the intersection while buses from Kundrathur to Poonamallee halt opposite the Four Road Junction bus stop. When buses from all three directions come at the same time, the junction witnesses chaotic traffic, as it is narrow. A few years ago, attempts were made to ease the traffic congestion at the intersection by temporarily shifting the bus-stop to the opposite side along the compound wall of the government school. However, this measure did not yield the desired result as officials found out that the location of bus stop was not causing the traffic issue, but narrowness of roads intersecting at the junction. However, no steps were taken to widen the intersection ot have it relaid. “Steps will be taken to relay the intersection soon,” says an official with the State Highways.  “The carriageway at the intersection has completely worn out exposing gravel sand below it”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/intersection-in-kundrathur-needs-mending/article33261883.ece
06 December 2020||December 06 2020 00:00 IST,||A toy library in Muttukadu for children with multiple disabilities||Bright rubber mats drape the floor and racks around the room are stacked with eye-catching toys. Sensitive to sound, touch and light, these toys develop motor skills, and children with multiple disabilities. As part of the International Day of Persons with Disabilities, on December 3, this new toy library was inaugurated at The Model School for Children with Multiple Disabilities, which functions on the campus of the National Institute for Empowerment of Persons with Multiple Disabilities (NIEPMD) in Muttukadu. Nachiket Rout, Director of NIEPMD, inaugurated the toy library. Students do not have to wait till for the school to reopen next year to use the toy library. School authorities are allowing parents to pick up these special toys to complement online learning. Currently, children attend online classes that combine 3D and 2D technology. “It is a humble start and we plan to keep adding toys in the months to come. As of now, our plan is to issue toys, just like books, to children based on their level of functioning, learning objectives and their interest levels,” says B. Leelavathi, who is in-charge of the Model School for Children with Multiple Disabilities, adding that 130 children with multiple disabilities are currently enrolled with the school. “The idea behind sending relevant toys home is also to instil in them a sense of ownership about them,” she says. The special teachers at the school would demonstrate to parents how the toys should be used to meet each child’s learning target. The toys can be returned after two weeks and they would be sanitised and reissued to another child. NIEPMD also invites individuals and organisations who wish to donate toys of this kind to the library.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-toy-library-in-muttukadu-for-children-with-multiple-disabilities/article33261900.ece
06 December 2020||December 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Octogenarian runs lending library, taking the pandemic in her stride||K.P. Neelamani was a renowned Tamil writer and he also distinguished himself as a small entrepreneur. A small lending library on Mandaveli Street is his claim to entrepreneurial glory. Decades ago, I was part of a group of youngsters — average age somewhere in the mid-twenties — that frequented the library. Neelamani was of a friendly disposition, and was open to having a light-hearted conversation with us, as we browsed through the collection. After his demise, his wife Janaki Neelamani took over the reins of the lending library — named ‘Leo Library’ — and has had a set of loyal customers continuing to patronise it. She brings a lot of discipline to how she runs the library, which is set in a space that is less that 100 sq.ft. She would open the facility on the dot at 9 a.m., every day. The library would be closed for a while around noon when she would take a break, and reopened for business, it would continue to stay open until 7 p.m. depending on footfall. Except for a few months, those involving the early phases of the lockdown, she has kept the library running. She charges a nominal Rs. 100 as membership fee which is significantly lower than what is charged by other lending libraries. Only Tamil books are lent. Recently, when I visited the library, she spoke with great affection, having remembered that I used to frequent the library decades ago. As she is 84 years old, her memory is indeed really sharp. She was even aware of my membership number — 100. I would like our friends to once again patronise the lending library and that would the greater honour one would extend a lady who had displayed impressive initiative and grit. There is a lot that youngsters can learn from her life. When I offered to become a member of the lending library once again, by paying a membership fee afresh, she flatly refused to take the fee. When she created a fresh membership card, she reminded me that my membership — which came at a measly fee of Rs. 10, thirty years ago — still holds good, and that I would be an esteemed member of the library. The library is located near the Mandaveli Market opposite CC Bank.  (Baskar Seshadri is a volunteer-writer)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/octogenarian-runs-lending-library-taking-the-pandemic-in-her-stride/article33261903.ece
06 December 2020||December 06 2020 00:00 IST,||He continues to put his stamp on a neighbourhood||Many in Mylapore have likely bought stamp paper from Rouf Basha. For more than two decades, he operates as a stamp paper vendor at Paripoorna Vinayagar Koil Street, near Rayars Cafe on Arundale Street, functioning from his house that doubles as a shop. Recently, overpowered by nostalgia, he narrated to me how chance, not choice led him into the profession, and that his enthusiasm for it is intense as when he first began. Rouf is 75 years old. “Ask for any stamp paper, any denomination and I will have it,” says Rouf. When he had not stocked up on the stamp paper you are looking for, he would go to the trouble of sourcing it for you the next day. His shop is open from 9 a.m. to 1 p.m. and again, from 3 p.m. to 8 p.m. He has visitors knocking at his door even at 11 p.m asking for stamp papers, and he also sells non-judicial stamp, notarial stamp, share stamp and insurance stamp. The pandemic had dealt him a huge blow, as real estate transactions have dwindled, but in the last one month, things are looking up. Property registrations have started, and people have started knocking at Rouf’s place for stamp papers and anything that they may need for submission of documents. The precautions he has put in place to carry out his work are impressive. Though of restricted dimensions, his shop shows signs of COVID-19 protocols being followed diligently. He gets visitors to use a sanitiser dispenser, and makes sure people do not crowd at his shop. “I allow only one person to come inside at a time, and all the others have to wait outside,” he says. “Of course, I wear my mask and make sure everyone entering my shop wears one too.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/he-continues-to-put-his-stamp-on-a-neighbourhood/article33261905.ece
06 December 2020||December 06 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Despite desilted SWDs, water stagnates in Virugambakkam’||The Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) has built stormwater drains in Virugambakkam, and they were cleaned and desilted before the onset of north-east monsoon. However, residential areas in Virugambakkam, including Elango Nagar, Natesan Nagar and Chinmaya Nagar, came under sheets of water. On the reason for the inundation, GCC officials said water from the stormwater drains get discharged into the Virugambakkam Canal, but the water in the water is not flowing freely. The Virugambakkam Canal comes uder the the purview of the Public Works Department (PWD). Following the December 2015 floods, PWD constructed a drain in 2016 connecting the Virugambakkam Canal to Cooum River near Koyambedu. The exercise aimed to prevent inundation in Virugambakkam. Virugambakkam did not witness stagnation during the past two to three seasons of the North-East monsoon, probably due to poor rainfall. The problem has cropped up again this season. Hence, there is question of whether the PWD drain is being mainatined properly. Rainwater stagnation seems to be a stubborn problem in the locality. In spite of repeated complaints, workers from the Corporation have not turned up pump out the stagnant rainwater. S. Arumainathan is president of Virugambakkam Residents Welfare Associaiton||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/despite-desilted-swds-water-stagnates-in-virugambakkam/article33261895.ece
06 December 2020||December 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Workshop on gardening||Tamil Nadu Agricultural University Information & Training Centre is conducting a workshop on terrace gardening on December 8. Another workshop on baking and confectioneries will be held on December 10. The session will be held at the centre’s premises in Guindy. Time: From 10 a.m. to 3.30 p.m. For registration and other details, call 044 – 2225 0511 / 2250 1960.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/workshop-on-gardening/article33261874.ece
06 December 2020||December 06 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Street lights are yet to make a comeback in Blooming Garden’||A month ago, a handful of workers from the Greater Chennai Corporation installed posts for street lamps in our colony — Blooming Garden in Mugaliwakkam. The move raised that hope that the interior roads in the neighbourhood — Aster Street, Jasmine Street, and Marigold Street — would get good illumination, but hope has given way to disappointment now. For, over the past few weeks, there is no sign of any further work being carried out. Reasons for putting the work on hold are not known to us. Though the posts have been installed, lamps are yet to be fixed. Until two years ago, our neighbourhood had adequate streets lights and it was sufficiently illuminated. These street lights were then removed to facilitate the construction of stormwater drains. The SWD construction work was completed in six months, but the street-lights are yet to make a return. We request the Corporation to do the needful at the earliest. D.Thirunganam is president of Blooming Garden Residents Welfare Association in Mugaliwakkam||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/street-lights-are-yet-to-make-a-comeback-in-blooming-garden/article33261890.ece
06 December 2020||December 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Online skill training programme||As part of a CSR initiative, Matrimony.com is conducting a free vocational skill development programme for women college students, in association with the voluntary organisation Hand in Hand India, . According to a press release, this women empowerment programme, offered online, runs for a duration of 45 days. The employment-enhancing programme can be availed by final-year under-graduate students. Participants will be trained in business mathematics, marketing, customer management and other skills that industries seek in young graduates, says Rajesh Balaji, CHRO – Matrimony.com. The candidates also get a certificate on the completion of the programme. To enrol and for other details, call 99946 70967; 95660 79338; 44- 6720 1000.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/online-skill-training-programme/article33261873.ece
06 December 2020||December 06 2020 00:00 IST,||You can be our volunteer-writer||Dear readers, you can be our volunteer-writer by writing to us about issues and events in your neighbourhood. You should send the write-ups to downtown feedback@ thehindu.co.in. Letters must carry the postal address and contact number. Here’s a short note on the basic building blocks of any short news feature. a) The lead is the first section of an article, and leads that narrate a human situation work the best. b) The next element is the cosmic paragraph, in which you give the overall picture. c) News features have to be factually-grounded and the central portion, which will consist of a few paragraphs, should support the anecdotal paragraph and the cosmic paragraph.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/you-can-be-our-volunteer-writer/article33261896.ece
06 December 2020||December 06 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Skill-based, flexible curriculum is needed’||The pandemic has brought to the fore the interest children and young adults with disabilities have in computer programming. Coding can be particularly useful for those on high-functioning autism spectrum. These children have significant visual-spatial skills, and they pay attention to minute details, having an enormous capacity for repetitive activities and acquiring logical skills, all of which are needed to understand coding. What they lack is social and communication skills, which is less interfering when they are working in front of the computer. Data shows that graduates on the spectrum, close to 80%, are not yet employed. Given their core social deficits, curriculum-based teaching is not enough to land them jobs. These differently-abled individuals need skill-based, flexible and user-friendly curriculum, so that they can learn it at their pace. For this, educational institutions have to be inclusive first and then introduce courses in programming for these individuals. We also need companies to offer them internships after they complete these courses. (Dr. N. Rajeshwari is Chief Consultant - Pediatrics and Developmental Neurologist, Head of Child Development Centre, Dr. KamakshiMemorial Hospitals)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/skill-based-flexible-curriculum-is-needed/article33261899.ece
06 December 2020||December 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Amur Falcon: Chennai gets off the mark||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/amur-falcon-chennai-gets-off-the-mark/article33261879.ece
06 December 2020||December 06 2020 00:00 IST,||He continues to put his stamp on a neighbourhood||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/he-continues-to-put-his-stamp-on-a-neighbourhood/article33261881.ece
06 December 2020||December 06 2020 00:00 IST,||though Filled to the brim, this tank needs attention||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/though-filled-to-the-brim-this-tank-needs-attention/article33261888.ece
06 December 2020||December 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Notes from Copenhagen||A major part of 2020 has passed away in reading travel books rather than actually travelling. The feet remained itchy though. So, when the Danish border opened for residents of southern Sweden (where we live), we lined up to take the train to one of our favourite cities — Copenhagen. From the city of Malmö in Sweden, Copenhagen is normally a 40-minute train ride. However, given the border checks that have been put in between, the travel time has stretched to more than an hour. The train was running full even on the weekends, which indicated that there were many like us who were waiting for the restrictions to ease. Upon entering Denmark, we donned our masks. (Wearing them is not mandatory in Sweden, yet.) We got off at Copenhagen Central, the city’s main transport hub, which felt as crowded as it has always been. To reiterate, there is no lockdown in Denmark, which means that the Danes are free to come out to eat and shop as long as they take the recommended safety precautions and wear masks in public places. Just outside Copenhagen Central is the entrance to one of the city’s main landmarks, Tivoli. On a normal weekend, even those outside this amusement park can hear the shrieks of children taking rides. However, today the park seemed muted. Wondering why, we peeked inside and found that there weren’t many queuing to get onto the rides. The kids might have been turned off by the seating restrictions and the burden of wearing masks. Cheer in the air We decided to walk on Storget, the pedestrian street in Copenhagen. Usually, this street is lively, come summer or winter. Though it was the tail end of summer, the restaurants still had their tables out. Storget was definitely more cheerful than Tivoli, for there were many of us outside — shopping, eating or just randomly walking outside on what was turning out to be a pleasant sunny day. We walked all the way to Nyhavn, the vibrantly coloured, joyous neighbourhood at the end of the walking street, marked with multiple cafés and bars. Here it seemed as if nothing had changed, for the cafés were full and there was a general cheer in the air. A street singer occupied a corner, rendering Bob Marley songs, while a painter was busy painting the brightly coloured buildings that mark Nyhavn, unmindful of the several of us who stood there watching his art. We paused for a few minutes, and took in the breeze that wafted from the Baltic Sea. For the few minutes that we stood there soaking in the sun — while the street music trickled in, punctuated with the pop of beer cans and easy laughter of people having a good time — it all seemed normal, as if the pandemic was a mere nightmare that had vaporised the instant we woke up that morning. In this moment, everything looked perfect, as it should have been. So, we got ourselves a table in the sun at one of the restaurants and joined the festivities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/notes-from-copenhagen/article33261993.ece
06 December 2020||December 06 2020 00:00 IST,||It tastes bloody good||If you were to talk to those who knew me while I was growing up, chances are their recollections of me would be peppered with adjectives like ‘annoyingly smarmy’, ‘insufferable little know-it-all’, and other not-so-flattering sobriquets. And they would not be far off the mark. More often than not, my “over-smart attitude”—as my father loved to call it—would get me into a serious spot of bother. But every now and then, it also took me down a serendipitous path of delicious discoveries. The summer of my 10th year spent vacationing around South East Asia was one such time. Insisting on ordering a ‘sundae’ for myself at a Korean restaurant in Singapore and paying absolutely no heed to the flustered server’s suggestion that I order something else, I gluttonously waited for my frozen treat to materialise onto the table. The now-sniggering server plonked down a plate upon which was placed a blistered, coiled link of a dark brown, almost blackish sausage that he proclaimed with a flourish as “sundae!”. That is how I was introduced to the wonders of the delicious Korean pig’s blood grilled sausage also known as sundae. United by blood Over the years, I would make it my mission to scope out dishes that —pardon the morbidity — satiated my ‘blood cravings’. From imparting that unmistakable iron-y flavour to an Asian stir-fry to some much-needed heft to a thin gravy or simply bestowing that rich, heaemoglobic, scarlet depth of colour to a stew, animal blood holds sway the world over. The concept of animal blood as an ingredient and dare-I-say a delicacy is firmly etched into the culinary lexicon of most countries’ food cultures for centuries. On a safari to Kenya in the mid-2000s, I partook in the age-old Maasai tribal custom of knocking back a cocktail of bull’s blood and milk. Freshly siphoned off the beast’s jugular vein, the blood is quickly mixed with cow’s milk to avoid curdling and served warm from a hollowed bull’s horn. While doing my post-graduation degree in the U.K., I fell in love with the crumbly, oaty taste of a generous slab of pig’s blood sausage called black pudding served under fried eggs for breakfast in the cafeteria of my halls of residence. Weekend trips to next-door France introduced me to their iteration of the adored pig’s blood sausage called boudin noir, that is best paired with sautéed apples. On a two-week exchange trip to Guangzhou, I saw my Chinese host family speak reverentially of what they know as congealed pig or duck’s blood tofu called xie dòufun that is the main ingredient of the hallowed, fiery stew aptly called hot pot. My blood quest would get further intensified in places like Laos and in northeast Thailand where a surprisingly fresh-tasting mountain salad called laap sees raw minced pork mixed with spices and copious amounts of pig’s blood. On a recent, pre-pandemic work trip to Scandinavia, I gourmandised my way through the wonderfully flavoursome pig’s blood pancake called blodplättar in Sweden and veriohukainen in Finland. India, too And if you think these are foreign and exotic tastes, India too has a vast culinary repertoire of blood-enriched dishes in its desi kitchens. I will never forget the mixture of emotions I went through when I saw a freshly slaughtered pig for the first time in Goa. My aunts rushed to collect the blood spewing from the animal’s jugular into a hollowed coconut shell, stirring the red liquid to prevent it from coagulating. The blood would later be used in the Portuguese-influenced, festive pork dish called sorpotel. As if the Kashmiri chilli’s crimson hue isn’t enough, pig’s blood is added towards the end to impart a bright red blush to this thick stew made of tiny bits of fatty pork and pig’s liver swimming in a vinegar-spiked gravy that is served with crusty brun pao. Though it uses chicken as the main protein, another blood-based, Portuguese-influenced Goan dish is cabidela de galinha. Made very differently from sorpotel, this dish is a sort of mild stew-meets-risotto that uses a generous amount of basmati rice in its preparation. As my travels and work stints took me south, to the Indian peninsula, I discovered that both the Madurai and Kongu Nadu regions of Tamil Nadu share another blood-centric dish — the aattu ratha poriyal. This stir-fry uses the congealed blood of a goat, which is steamed and cut into small bits that are added to spices like turmeric, ginger, garlic, chilli powder, mustard and stir-fried in oil with onions and fresh grated coconut with plenty of curry leaves thrown in. North by Northeast Interestingly, I learned that quite a few of the blood-enhanced dishes of India’s northeast are festive ones made with great pomp and ceremony. Take the sacred dish of amin, for instance, made by the Galo tribal people of Arunachal Pradesh from the blood of a sacrificial mithun (a semi-domesticated hybrid ox) on the fourth (and last) day of the Mopin Festival of Fertility, celebrated in April every year. Similarly, India’s indigenous Nepalese, who mainly live in Assam, Manipur, Meghalaya, Sikkim and Darjeeling, also have a ritualistic spicy goat blood dish called rakti that is had during the Hindu festival of Dashain (Dussehra) and cooked in mustard oil over a slow fire. Still in the northeast, the Khasis from the Cherrapunjee area of Meghalaya also known as Sohra, make a pork pulao called ja-doh that uses pig and sometimes chicken blood. The dish is typically eaten at breakfast during Christmas and Easter. Once again, serendipity comes to the fore when I discover, while researching this piece, of all things a dessert, made with blood. Apparently, in Italy, sanguinaccio dolce is a pudding made with pig’s blood, chocolate, sugar, pine nuts, raisins and milk. I know where I am heading next when the pandemic departs!  The Mumbai-based writer and restaurant reviewer is passionate about food, travel and luxury, not necessarily in that order.  I saw my Chinese host family speak reverentially of what they know as congealed pig or duck’s blood tofu called xie dòufun||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/it-tastes-bloody-good/article33261909.ece
06 December 2020||December 06 2020 00:00 IST,||‘India has to go for more globalisation’||Famous for his popular CNN show, Fareed Zakaria GPS, and his columns, Fareed Zakaria is a well-known commentator on international affairs. His latest book, Ten Lessons for a Post-Pandemic World , is a no-nonsense reality check on the world after COVID-19 full of candid simplicity and pithy philosophies. In an interview, Zakaria speaks about the the virus, the book and the lessons it offers. Excerpts: Among the lessons you offer, ‘Globalisation Is Not Dead’ and ‘The World Is Becoming Bipolar’ are two of the most intriguing. Hasn’t COVID-19 delivered a devastating blow to globalisation? The pandemic is a peculiar thing. It is paradoxical. By nature it’s global, but the effect politically was to make everyone turn inward, more local, more national, in their orientation. But the world we live in now is so deeply interconnected by trade and investment capital flows that it would be unthinkable to unravel all that. The truth is that we need all these desperately. First of all, in an emergency like this, the only reason we were able to provide all the equipment and medicines to everybody around the world was that we had global supply chains. We in the U.S. ended up relying on China for a lot of the medical equipment in the first few months. Scientists are able to move much faster on this vaccine because science has now become largely a kind of globalised enterprise. And the most important reason is that countries are looking for growth, particularly now with the effect of the pandemic. Now, the fastest way to boost your economy is to have a larger market to play in. And that means actually going in the direction of more trade, more openness than less. And, in fact, in the Indian context, you can see that the serious measures Prime Minister Modi has taken have been actually in the direction of liberalisation while he talked a good game about buying local, etc. The next phases are going to involve more global cooperation than less. The IMF will become more active in the world, not less. There will be a greater push to find ways to forge more free trade agreements. The broad thrust of the direction the world has been going in for hundreds of years and in particular for the last 75 years is not going to be reversed by this pandemic. There is the understandable natural inclination to want to control and to want to have a greater degree of autonomy because you feel buffeted by these trends. But, look, for India, this idea of local manufacturing, swadeshi products, import-substitution, etc. is not a theoretical issue. That is the India I grew up in. It was a recipe for stagnation and corruption. So I very much hope that India will not try this experiment again. It has to go for more globalisation. But if the world is going bipolar, between the U.S. and China, won’t that Cold War impact the very idea of globalisation? There are a lot of concerns about being overly reliant on China. That is not an argument against globalisation, but against being reliant on one single market or country, and it’s more for geopolitical reasons. Even from a business point of view, one can understand the rationale. You don’t want to put all your eggs in one basket. So you diversify. That has been actually an ongoing process over the last 10 years anyway, as China has become a higher-wage economy. As a result, companies have been starting to diversify to places like India, Bangladesh, Mexico and so on. But that’s still globalisation. China and the U.S. are in a league of their own, economically and militarily. Everyone else is one step below. That is going to define the nature of the new world for the next generation at least. The question, then, is how do we manage such a world? An open system and an open global economy can easily survive with a certain degree of economic and technological competition. Japan and the US in the 1980s were highly competitive on many of these issues. But the key is not to allow it to morph into the kind of highly divisive, destructive competition that characterised the U.S. and the Soviet Union. All the things that fuelled the last 40 years of global growth will become much more difficult if there is a new Cold War. COVID-19 has exposed the chinks in capitalism and its structures. Has capitalism failed? It’s not that capitalism has failed; the apostles of capitalism have always neglected the fact that capitalism is not enough. Think about the response to the Great Depression, in the 1930s: Franklin Roosevelt understood that in order to save capitalism, you have to put in place measures like unemployment insurance, social security and regulation of labour, and allow unions. I would argue that the 20th century ended in the triumph of social-democratic capitalism over both socialism and capitalism. In the Western world, we have a genuinely mixed economy; production of wealth and the allocation of resources are done almost entirely by the market, but very strong social protections are put in place using tax money. That model is quite stable and is going to endure. But the real challenge for the pandemic has been a different issue: the quality of the state. Do you have a competent bureaucracy? The places that turned upside down during the pandemic were all places with weak or dysfunctional states — Belgium, Spain, Italy. But places with strong capable states, such as Germany, Denmark, Taiwan, South Korea, have done well. But if we look at the financial meltdown of 2008-09, where austerity was the preferred panacea, how can we be optimistic about the world turning towards a mixed economic model now? My optimism comes from that fact that I think people learn from their mistakes. Most people would now regard the austerity of the European Union and of the IMF, World Bank, etc., after the global financial crisis as a mistake. And it’s clear that the countries that did best after the crisis were the U.S. and China, which were aggressively engaged in both monetary and fiscal stimulus. So, in the post-COVID-19 world, what we need to do is to spend money, and spend it differently. Allow banks to lend to other kinds of enterprises, and that money will eventually flow down to the average person. We need much more direct support for poor people everywhere.  The writer is editor of number13.in, an explainer portal.  Born in Mumbai in 1964 B.A. from Yale University and Ph.D. in government from Harvard Became the managing editor ofForeign Affairsin 1992, aged 28 Has won a number of awards, including the Padma Bhushan in 2010 for his contribution to journalism   The broad thrust of the direction the world has been going in for hundreds of years and in particular for the last 75 years is not going to be reversed by this pandemic||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/india-has-to-go-for-more-globalisation/article33261911.ece
06 December 2020||December 06 2020 00:00 IST,||The square route to success||Chess conjures up stock images. Like that of two studious men sitting pensively across a table and staring intently at the board with its carved figures striding across the black and white squares. An unlikely smash hit on Netflix, though, has given chess a makeover. The Queen’s Gambit , about a girl extraordinarily gifted in chess, has captivated audiences the world over. And chess has finally entered the mainstream. From an Indian point of view, the streaming of the limited series could not have been timed better. The game has seen unprecedented interest these past few months — after the COVID-19 pandemic pressed the pause button on many sporting activities. Chess has found a way to beat the dreaded virus. Online games featuring players of all standards, from beginners to grandmasters, are being played across time zones. In late August, India was crowned the joint winner, along with Russia, at the online Chess Olympiad. This was the first time the prestigious event was held virtually. The hashtag #ChessOlympiad trended on Twitter for a while. And hundreds of thousands followed the event live on YouTube. Never before has chess garnered such sustained attention in the country. There are newspaper reports of an Indian boy achieving remarkable feats in chess tournaments in Europe, braving the lockdown. And of course, ‘queen’s gambit’ has become more than just chess jargon. It was Viswanathan Anand, the five-time world champion, who single-handedly revolutionised the game in India. He caught the imagination of the sporting fraternity when he won the world junior title in 1987. It was the biggest achievement by an Indian chess player up until then. Anand soon established himself as one of the brightest stars in world chess, inspiring thousands of youngsters in India to take it up as a career. At the top India is now ranked No. 4 in the world, and has 66 Grandmasters (only four countries have more). There are two Indians in the women’s top 10 and three Indian men in the top 25. India has been steadily winning multiple medals at world age-group championships every year. Yet, after Anand, no Indian has won the coveted world title in classical chess. Anand won it on five occasions. The classical category is considered more prestigious than the rapid and blitz formats, which are played over shorter durations. Can we hope to see another Indian conquering the world stage in the near future? Maybe not. But there are a couple of young talents capable of mounting a serious bid for the crown a few years from now. Nihal Sarin, 16, and R. Praggnanandhaa, 15, have already been recognised as two of the most exciting prospects and are India’s best bets at the moment. Players like D. Gukesh (14), Raunak Sadhwani (14), Bharat Subramaniyam (13), R. Vaishali (19), Arjun Erigaisi (17), Aryan Chopra (18), Prithu Gupta (16), Leon Mendonca (14), Divya Deshmukh (14) and Vantika Agrawal (17) hold promise too. “I think it is possible for India to have more players in the top 20,” says Anand. “For that, the tournaments have to resume (after the pandemic subsides), but I know they are working hard on their game.” Support systems The players are doing their bit, but they wouldn’t mind more support from the authorities, be it the All India Chess Federation (AICF) or the State and Central governments. Compared to many other sporting authorities, the AICF has been active and has succeeded in putting in place a system to identify players with potential through its several age-group tournaments. But it suffers from a lack of imagination when it comes to taking the game to the next level; there are not many big-ticket events in the country to attract prominent Indian names, let alone overseas stars. Early this year, the AICF split into two factions, both of which went to court. There have been instances of two Indian teams being drawn up for the same international tournament, signalling a clear crisis at the decision-making level. “The infighting in the AICF has affected the game badly,” says V. Saravanan, International Master and coach. “The lockdown was when they could have shown some leadership. They could have conducted national championships online, but they didn’t. They are far too busy waging legal battles.” Saravanan and his contemporaries had to travel to Europe to play in quality tournaments to fulfil the norms required to become a Grandmaster. Things still haven’t changed much for the present generation. Players such as Aravindh Chithambaram and S.L. Narayanan, India’s No. 7 and No. 11, respectively, could benefit immensely if strong tournaments are held regularly in India. “You need to play in closed (round robin) or quality open tournaments,” says Narayanan. “But only if you are sponsored or employed can you travel to Europe. It’s very difficult for people like me who aren’t.” Koneru Humpy, the reigning world women’s rapid champion, agrees with Narayanan. “In India, you have enough tournaments up to a certain level,” she says. “But once you become a Grandmaster and if you wish to move up the ladder in world rankings, you won’t find any useful tournaments here.” Bharat Singh Chouhan, who has served the AICF in various capacities for more than two decades, says there is the Tata Steel tournament in Kolkata. But that began only in 2018. The AICF should have begun conducting high-profile tournaments at least two decades ago. Anand won his first World title in 2000 but had been a global superstar for years before that. However, apart from the three official tournaments by FIDE (the world chess governing body), India did not host a single event good enough for him to compete in when he was at his peak. A regular tournament featuring him and other big names in world chess, as well as young Indians, would have given the game more visibility and evinced corporate interest. Move with the times The AICF could indeed up their marketing and PR game. Chess may not be a spectator sport, but it is one of the few truly global sports in which India has several major stars. Varugeese Koshy, a vastly experienced International Master who is also one of India’s most respected coaches, says the AICF hasn’t moved with the times. “The game has flourished in India primarily because of Anand and because of the support of parents who have invested time and money in their children,” says Koshy. Koshy is also disappointed that players are not part of the administration. “The National Sports Development Code demands that,” he says. “That is one of the reasons why we formed the Chess Players Forum. The players’ interest has to be protected.” Humpy raises another issue that has been vexing Indian players. “Chess doesn’t get the recognition it deserves,” she says. “Chess players and coaches are ignored for top sports awards like the Arjuna and Dronacharya. It is strange that somebody like Vidit Gujrathi, who is ranked World No. 20, has not won an Arjuna. The AICF has to address this problem.” Chouhan says the AICF has requested the government to treat chess on a par with cricket when it comes to awards and honours. But it is not just the lack of recognition that’s bothering India’s mind champions. Players are no longer assured of a job if they do well in the game. And they need to work; Anand is the only Indian to make a living purely as a player. Earlier, public sector companies and nationalised banks would recruit players regularly, now only the Indian Railways does so. “I am worried that my son has not been able to get a job despite being one of India’s strongest players,” says Sunil Duth, Narayanan’s father. “I won’t be surprised if parents think twice before planning a career in chess for their children.” Setting up a national league, like the IPL in cricket, could help. “It is high time we had a chess league in India,” says Saravanan. “That is how we should professionalise the game. If Maharashtra can build a successful league, there is no reason we cannot have a national league.” Most of India’s titled players, including Anand, compete in various leagues, mostly in Europe. China also has a popular league. So does Bangladesh, though it has only five grandmasters. There is much room for improvement in the country where chess originated 14 centuries ago. If not here, then where?  Chess players and coaches are ignored for top sports awards like the Arjuna and Dronacharya. It is strange that someone like Vidit Gujrathi, world No. 20, has not won an Arjuna, says Koneru Humpy||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-square-route-to-success/article33261946.ece
06 December 2020||December 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Solutions in the kitchen sink||It is the dream of Manu Prakash, a professor at Stanford University, to touch billions of lives with the low-cost science tools he and his team develop at Prakash Labs in Stanford. Prakash, who believes rigid disciplines can hinder more than help, encourages his team to work in the interfaces of physics, biology and computation in his lab. How does biology embody computation? This is a central question in much of their work in biological systems. Their research at Prakash Labs runs into a broad spectrum of areas such as frugal science and global health, algorithmic self-assembly, organismic biophysics and living soft matter. Prakash grew up in Meerut. After completing a B.Tech from IIT Kanpur in Computer Science and Engineering, he went to Massachusetts Institute of Technology for a Ph.D in Applied Physics. He was given the Mac Arthur “Genius” Fellowship in 2016 and heads Prakash Labs in Stanford now. “I grew up in India, and I have been privileged in many ways. I had access to all kinds of sciences. So, when I started my lab, it was clear to me I would spend 50% of my time thinking about how to make science more accessible... the problems scientists can solve will always be limited if the means and tools of science are accessible only to a very few,” he says. Sense of play Realising that the problems of our time, in the areas of health or environment, require measurement and a surveillance system on a planetary scale, Prakash says, “I started with microscopy because it is so beautiful. Most individuals have never seen their own cells, for example.” The Foldscope, a foldable paper microscope which costs less than a dollar, is one of the creations of Prakash Labs. “Now there are a million Foldscopes in the world. A million people from around 150 countries, for the first time in their lives, have access to microscopy because of that tool. That makes me very happy,” he says. “The onus of what to do with it rests with them... But this is a drop in the ocean is how I think of it.” Inspiration came early, in the form of the sense of play conveyed by his science training. “Behind every invention, every convenience, or scientific discovery is a human story,” he says, recalling the time he visited Nobel Laureate David Hubel. “He had two very prized possessions in his office. One was a loom — he would actually weave from time to time. The second was a miniature lathe.” Embodied skills Hubel was known for measuring spikes from single neurons in a cat — he was the only person at the time who could measure spike trails from a single neuron. “He could do it because he realised that he needed training in mechanics to position the electrode precisely in the brain. He took three months off and trained as a machinist,” says Prakash. “You have to embody skills in your own self. Science is not a transaction, you have to collaborate. But unless you actually embody it in yourself you cannot execute it,” he says. Last year, the group launched two projects in microscopy. One is Octopi, “which is a big brother of Foldscope, allowing automated imaging,” says Prakash. The idea started with automated diagnosis for malaria which the group is currently rolling out as a clinical validation study. “It is essentially a hundred-dollar tool that can do completely automated imaging,” he adds. The other is a microscope for sailors, Planktonscope. In a programme called Plankton Planet, aimed at developing user-friendly tools for a sustainable wind-powered citizen oceanography, they recruit recreational sailors. The aim is to generate new knowledge on plankton ecology, morphology and genetics, and to make this available to users globally. “We have been working with another colleague to make electron microscopes accessible. They can cost about half a million dollars. We are trying to build a $150 model, which can be used in high schools but still deliver 10 nanometre resolution,” says Prakash. Factory in a box For COVID-19, the group has sketched out a plan for a full-feature but low-cost ICU ventilator called Pufferfish. Prakash says, “Bharat Forge, one of the manufacturing entities in India, joined us. We are going to start our clinical validation studies in four countries now for the first high-flow nasal cannula units.” A high-flow nasal cannula unit consists of a flexible tube with two prongs which, when placed near the nostrils, can supply oxygen at a higher rate. “The problem with our traditional healthcare delivery system is its centralised approach. How is it that the most critical supplies — not just of drugs but also of N95 masks — are all bottlenecked,” he asks. To address this gap, the group has started a project to locally manufacture N95 masks. “We call it ‘a factory in a box’. It will fit in a room and manufacture 20,000 to 30,000 N95 masks a day. Its core is the same as what a cotton candy machine is made of,” Prakash says. The functioning principle of Prakash Labs is encouragement. “Whenever someone pitches an idea, we don’t give 20 reasons why it’s not going to work. Rather, we add to it by saying, it’s an interesting idea and here are the things you need to consider,” says Prakash, who continues to be fascinated by commonplace items that reveal uncommon aspects when examined closely. “A great deal of the physics community gets excited by the exotic — the lowest temperature, the smallest length scales, really large length scales... All of those are good questions, but go to the kitchen sink and there are open questions there too,” he says.  Science is not a transaction, you have to collaborate. But unless you actually embody it in yourself you cannot execute it||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/solutions-in-the-kitchen-sink/article33261984.ece
06 December 2020||December 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Master of the labyrinth||Jorge Luis Borges’s contention that folklore is the most refined form of storytelling finds a resounding echo in the fictional world of Malayalam writer S. Hareesh, many of whose short stories illustrate this. It is also the defining tenet of his novel, Meesha (translated into English as Moustache , which was awarded the JCB Prize for Literature recently), a subversive epic set in Kuttanad of pre-independence Kerala. Kerala’s Macondo “In writing, it is perfectly acceptable to picture the Bengal tiger as three-legged or as speaking Sanskrit,” the narrator of Meesha insists, quoting Borges, underlining the distinction between fiction and bare fact. The narrative is shaped like a medieval ballad where fact and fantasy are inseparably entwined. Teeming with larger-than-life characters, shape-shifters and anthropomorphic creatures, the ballad form lends credence to the novel’s phantasmagorical occurrences unfolding in central Travancore’s feudal society at a time when caste and gender reigned supreme there in ways inconceivable now. Hareesh drew inspiration from Chengannooradi , a ballad of over 7,000 lines about a local hero, popularised by Mariamma chedathy , a sweeper at St. Berchmans College in Changanassery. In it he found the idea of the unlikely lowborn protagonist, Vavachan, a legend-fugitive who comes to possess the imagination of the high-bred and the lowborn alike. The novel’s setting is a character in itself, preventing Vavachan from escaping to Malaysia and where, as in a Russian folktale, he takes cover from a hailstorm under a large mushroom, which is really a dead sibling reborn. Hareesh says that as a young reader he relished the edgy excitement of yakshi fables, the compelling narration of the Arabian Nights and the Kathasaritsagara, besides local lores. All these went well with the servings of contemporary Latin American writing in Malayalam translation that were readily available in his formative years in the 1980s. He devoured Borges, Márquez, Julio Cortázar and Juan Rulfo, with Mario Vargas Llosa his favourite. Their influence was so sweeping that he featured them all — “creators of labyrinths that trap people” — along with some of their famous characters like Fermina Daza in a story about a carpenter’s phantom in his debut collection. But he remained loyal to his very own Macondo — Kuttanad — which transforms into a multidimensional character in Meesha . A village clerk by profession, Hareesh never left his native Neendoor, part of Upper Kuttanad in Kottayam district, always keeping an ear to its fecund ground. Sense of transience “It’s a fantastic place. For instance, St. Mary of the Manarcad Church and the devi of a nearby temple are believed to be siblings who visit each other furtively at night,” says Hareesh. He speaks of how he once heard someone being called ‘ ilu’ . “I had no clue what it meant, but was later told that it referred to the pointless Malayalam letter pronounced ilu that is seldom used, to suggest that the fellow was good for nothing!” It’s this linguistic and practical resourcefulness that is the source of the sardonic, irreverent, ribald and sexist humour of Hareesh’s characters. But underneath the profanity and vileness run a strain of pathos and an acute sense of transience. A character whose bookish father had an unseemly death when a wall of books crashed on him eventually reconciles with what his father was after, and begins to battle Ulysses, “ like a soldier in the face of certain defeat”. How caste manifests itself in daily life is a recurring theme. Subterranean tension arising from conflicting caste identities marks the story of a Nair-Ezhava love marriage spun around the image of the social reformer, Sree Narayana Guru, who is almost always identified with the powerful Ezhava community, considered a notch below the Nairs in the pecking order. Caste and gender violence in Meesha are visceral, and add to a subversive plot that’s punctuated by elaborate descriptions of the process of defecation and ablutions. Hareesh isn’t judgemental about his characters, who act out of free will and therefore embody the male toxicity, gender violence, caste prejudices and feral greed for power in society. This lack of political correctness invited the wrath of the Sangh Parivar and caste outfits like the Nair Service Society, stopping Meesha from being serialised in the Mathrubhumi weekly. Happy with the success of Moustache , Hareesh says his translator, Jayasree Kalathil, co-wrote and reinvented the work in English. “At no point was I apprehensive about the translation, as Kalathil has the mind of a writer. Having deciphered certain not-so-apparent links in the work, she was its best reader,” he says.  A village clerk by profession, Hareesh never left his native Neendoor, always keeping an ear to its fecund ground||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/master-of-the-labyrinth/article33261948.ece
06 December 2020||December 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Hindutva’s birth and growth||The march of Hindu nationalism was wobbly and uncertain for most part of the last century, though its strides appear sure-footed now. Two central characters that chaperoned its current patriarch Narendra Modi to the throne were Atal Bihari Vajpayee and Lal Krishna Advani. Their lives were intertwined, to borrow Jairam Ramesh’s phrase. The duo nurtured Hindu nationalism in its infancy but was taken aback by its muscularity and masculinity as it grew up, according to Vinay Sitapati in his new book, Jugalbandi: The BJP before Modi . Their diarchy in the Sangh Parivar — the Family — lasted for six decades. In political penury they looked after each other; but when the perch of power became their shared domain, they began to look over their shoulders for the other. Through all the ups and downs, they marched in step, and sang to each other’s tune. It was a jugalbandi . “Their... partnership had been crafted, not just for personal fortune, but for a loftier goal.” Violent charter Sitapati uses these two characters as a conduit to take the readers into the rather colourful world of Hindu nationalism, without offering judgment. He says this is a “revisionist” account of the rise of Hindutva that either challenges or nuances quite a few notions. The violence that accompanied the rise of Hindutva is graphically detailed, for instance, the account of the murder of former Congress MP Ehsan Jafri in the Gujarat riots of 2002. But violence is not integral to the plot, in this telling. It plays in the background as the duo on the stage continuously raises the pitch. December 6, 1992, was a “breakdown of Hindu nationalist ideology rather than its epitome,” the author says. At this point, the audience took over the stage from the artists. Therein lies a fundamental question that the author grapples with in the book — was the Bharatiya Janata Party’s evolution a response to pressure from below, rather than preordained in an ideological script? The book is rather conclusive that it is the first, and the author marshals considerable evidence to support this argument. By juxtaposing the BJP position on communal issues in the early 1980s with those of the Congress, the book nearly convinces readers of this argument. While Vajpayee was disapproving of the chatter around building a temple in Ayodhya, Indira Gandhi maintained ambiguity. Following the Meenakshipuram conversions of Dalits to Islam in 1981, the Congress sprung to action as defenders of Hinduism; in 1983, Indira Gandhi’s Congress used the Hindu card in elections in Jammu and Kashmir; as Sikh separatism and terrorism grew, the Congress questioned the patriotism of the BJP on grounds of its earlier sympathy with Akali politics. The 1984 victory of the Congress was characterised as a “massive Hindu mandate” by the Organiser , the official mouthpiece of the RSS. All this suggests that the line that separates mainstream Indian nationalism of the Congress and Hindu nationalism has been thin. Hindu Rashtra The BJP is stumbling towards becoming the flag-bearer of a Hindu Rashtra, it appears, responding to changes in public attitudes towards religion and politics. The “two criteria that this book argues defines the BJP: an emphasis on organisational unity and an ideology designed to win elections.” Ideology, for the BJP is merely instrumental, as it comes across. The party’s vacillation on economic policy is instructive. The author also puts the spotlight on the absence of a theory of state in RSS thinking. However, elsewhere in the book, the author is emphatic about the role of ideology in the BJP's growth. The book is conclusive that “the glue that kept them (Advani and Vajpayee) together was the ideology itself.” It is, after all, a political project that evolved over a century, holding its ground and rising consistently. The book points at the contradictory notes within the tent — for instance, V.D. Savarkar’s contempt for cow worship — but desists from attempting to decipher the current tenets of the ideology, which has acquired form and clarity. The book’s engagement with Hindutva ideology hence remains tentative. But there is a teaser that a second volume on the Modi-Amit Shah jugalbandi could well be on the way. Mandir politics  Jugalbandi amends the entrenched notion of Advani being a hardliner and Vajpayee being a moderate, by delicately unravelling their mutual views. Vajpayee’s Nehruvian aura is not demolished, but his willingness to play second fiddle to the core ideology is brought to the fore. Sitapati includes vignettes from the closets of some supporting characters such as Jaswant Singh; and organises events, ideas and people around the rise of Hindu nationalism in a manner that has not been done before. His grip over the dynamics of caste is enviable, and that is a remarkable aspect of this book, along with a helpful survey of existing studies on Hindu nationalism. He brings his fine understanding of caste to bear on the three defining forces of Indian politics in the last three decades — market, mandir and mandal. He does not apply that adequately, however, to interpret the jugalbandi between a heartland Brahmin and an uprooted Sindhi, who is assigned to lay the foundations on which the nation would be rebuilt but never got to hold the reins.  Jugalbandi: The BJP before Modi Vinay Sitapati Penguin/Viking  Rs. 799||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/hindutvas-birth-and-growth/article33261970.ece
06 December 2020||December 06 2020 00:00 IST,||How to protest safely||The farmers’ protests in Delhi, coming after the anti-CAA protests earlier this year, have raised some profound questions. Such as: How to protest safely, without getting tear-gassed, lathi-charged, or water-cannoned? How did people protest during the time of Mahabharatha , Ramayana and Ayurveda? How to protest in such a way that the people you are protesting against praise you, love you and garland you instead of beating you, maligning you and throwing you in jail under UAPA? Having spent the last several minutes thinking about these questions, I am pleased to inform that I have found the answers. So, without further ado, I’m sharing some tips on how to protest safely yet effectively. 1. Prepare a vision and mission statement : This is indispensable for anyone aspiring to become a protester who is not politically motivated. Take a sheet of paper and write down how your protest will help build your personal brand. Will it increase your followers on Twitter or Instagram? Will it generate material for a novel or an award-winning non-fiction book? If not, then can you at least serve as the state’s plant among the protesters, working to divide and sabotage the protest from within? Or can you, as a protester, give stupid statements to godi media that can help the government by discrediting the protesters in some way? Think. 2. Answer the question why : In my experience, people in India often have a genuine reason for protesting. To help you achieve clarity on your own motivations, I am sharing a multiple choice question below. Please read it carefully. I want to protest because: a. I am an anti-national b. I am a Khalistani c. I am an urban naxal d. I am misguided by the Opposition and Pakistan e. I am jealous of India’s stupendous economic growth f. I am driven to despair by Modiji’s beard g. All of the above Once you’ve picked the option that best describes your motivation, do not forget to email your answer to the NIA. 3. Take every precaution : Some people, especially those from JNU, imagine that going for protest is like going on picnic. They become very cheerful and sing songs. Obviously they are misguided. The first step towards protesting is to apply for permission. If the police or your RWA deny permission, don’t cry. More often than not, the problem can be solved by slightly changing the topic of your protest. Let’s say you want to stage an anti-CAA protest but not getting permission. All you need to do is change it to a pro-CAA protest — nine times out of ten, you will get permission. In fact, this is one reason why I am convinced that the agitating farmers are misguided. Had their consultants been any good, they would have told them to change their protest from ‘anti-farm laws’ to ‘pro-farm laws’. Had they done so, they would have got immediate permission to protest wherever they wanted to in Delhi. 4. Resist, don’t criticise : Protesting can generate strong emotions. But no matter how deeply you feel for your cause, resist the urge to blame the government for your personal problems. After all, what is a protest if not resistance? Let’s say, for instance, that you are unemployed despite holding a PhD in Entire Political Science. Blaming the government for your unemployment is nothing but a way to evade personal responsibility. On the other hand, if you’re really serious about working, you could always find employment in IT Cell or NREGA. 5. Pick the right cause : This is the single most important factor that can decide the fate of your protest — and determine whether you one day become chief minister of Delhi or languish in jail, waiting for Godot to give bail. Of course, a lot depends on your temperament — whether you are pro- or anti-establishment. If you are anti-establishment, I would advise you to stick to international causes. For instance, you could protest against the ongoing war in Ethiopia and demand an immediate ceasefire. (By the way, this protest topic is not yet taken in India — so if you go ahead, you’ll enjoy the first mover’s advantage.) Or you could launch a mass movement against Trump’s attempts to undermine American democracy — I’m confident you’ll get all permissions. Personally, I would recommend that you go in for a pro-establishment protest. Not only are they the safest, they always pay dividends in the long run. For instance, you could sit on a hunger strike outside Parliament demanding that the government immediately — as in RIGHT NOW — sell all of its PSUs, all of its land, and all of its other assets to crony capitalists at throwaway prices. Or you could launch a protest demanding that the government raise excise duty on petrol and diesel by 56% every day till 2024. Or you could start a campaign demanding that the government declare all Opposition parties as terrorists perpetrating Constitution jihad. The possibilities, as you can see, are endless. Happy protesting!   Personally, I would recommend that you go in for a pro-establishment protest||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/how-to-protest-safely/article33261980.ece
06 December 2020||December 06 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Like’ it or not||To Instagram, or not to Instagram, that is the question. “The dessert looks good but is it Instagram-able?” “My feed is flooded with Deepavali pictures; am I sticking out by not sharing mine?” “Am I being obtuse by not raising my voice against this highly relevant social issue when everyone has put up a story about it?” If you’re familiar with any social media, these questions may have resonated with you. I’m one of the millennials, broadly categorised as a social media-obsessed and attention-craving species, always choosing instant gratification over long-term benefits. Social media has touched every aspect of our lives, from socialising to social issues to shopping. The beauty and terror of social media lie in the fact that every Tom, Dick and Harry can have an account and hence, a voice. We may live in democracies, tyrannies or fascist-nations-disguised-as-democracies, but almost none of us is exempt from the hyper-democracy that is social media. As a citizen of the Divisive States of Instagram, you know that there is a vote on everything, from deeply divisive political issues to whether you indeed look cute in your new crop top. Increasingly, and rather alarmingly, social media is being used to judge competitions. It is only a matter of time before we do away with expert opinions, and perhaps, one day, even the Oscars or the Man Booker Prize may switch to such innovative and ridiculous judging. I’ve struggled with the overwhelming amount of irrelevant information I receive through my feed, I’ve fumed at unapologetically outrageous opinion posts, but I need to acknowledge that sometimes, it has introduced me to new ideas, wholesome news from across the world, hilarious memes and what’s better, book recommendations! I’ve also had difficulty establishing my relationship with social media in a way that it least affects my mental health. The underlying issue is the idea of ‘likes’. Since you clearly know who has liked what or how many people like your new house plant (ridiculous as it may sound), it becomes tricky to separate the intrinsic worth of something from how liked or shared it is on Instagram. Your self-worth certainly does not and cannot depend on social media validation or the number of followers you have. Grim reality While social media interaction may be engrossing, it is easy to forget that your followers will not rush to your rescue any given day (except a handful you can rely on). This again brings the focus back to real life and the importance of engaging with the person in front of you, at a café, in transit and even in your own home. There is little to match the magic and non-toxicity of real life, despite the complications. Instagram may be the unnecessary evil of modern times but we all chose our poison and if it prevents FOMO (fear of missing out), maybe, non-copious amounts of it will not result in the death of my self-worth and authenticity. divyavenkattu@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/like-it-or-not/article33261935.ece
06 December 2020||December 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Auditory assaults||Everyone seems to love blowing the horn at the drop of a hat, no matter where the location is. In fact, mindless honking is somewhat deeply ingrained in our psyche. Many drivers don’t seem to be at peace until they honk recklessly whether the road is congested or deserted; or blow the horn to call somebody from the top floor of a building; or talk on the phone in a high-decibel tone. Then there are those who want to tom-tom their love for music by cranking up the car stereo to deafening levels. Victims of such auditory assaults have to grin and bear it. After all, we reason, it takes all sorts to make the world. In housing societies, one can see “no horn” boards. Even then, some residents are unable to exorcise their honking craze. Old habits die hard. Our morbid proclivity to raise the decibel levels is at its severest during Deepavali. But truth be told, we neither need a festival nor any special occasion to make life miserable for others, let they be children, patients, pets or senior citizens. Pressure principle However, the mother of all cacophonous horns that gives us sleepless nights is the pressure horn. The villain of the piece is the accessory shop selling all manner of horns. Their use invites heavy penalties. But people continue to brazen it out and blow them by force of habit. A reason for using loud horns is because patience is in short supply. With cars clogging the roads, motorists easily lose their temper and use the horn to blow off steam. There are instances of motorists blowing horns just to cope with their mood swings. So much for driving etiquette! Then there are those who blow horns while zipping past no-honking zones such as hospitals and educational institutions. Have we completely lost it? Youngsters are no better in honking for no reason. How about teaching schoolchildren traffic rules and the ill-effects of horns? mukherjee.dashing@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/auditory-assaults/article33261939.ece
06 December 2020||December 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Thugs of Hindustan||A group of dacoits that strangles its victims, another that poisons its victims with datura, an investigator and his colleagues trying to track them down — sounds like an action-packed adventure, right? However, except for the opening chapter that offers a glimpse into the modus operandi of the phansigars , there’s not much excitement here. But that doesn’t mean Twilight in a Knotted World is boring. It’s actually quite unputdownable. Siddhartha Sarma spins an entire novel out of one of the achievements of William Bentinck, Governor General of India under the East India Company: his suppression of the thuggee cult. Of course, the achievement was Bentinck’s only insofar as he ordered it. The actual work was that of Captain William Henry Sleeman: when we first meet him in the novel, he is an amateur palaeontologist digging around in the hilly tracts of Jabalpur. Soon enough, he is called to Calcutta and “asked to examine the problem of the stranglers, tell us the extent of it and what needs to be done.” Set in the mid-19th century, when the East India Company is consolidating its hold over Indian territories, the book brings alive all those dry-as-dust lines from history textbooks — whether about the struggle between the princely states of Bhopal and Gwalior, the banning of sati or the promotion of women’s education. The episode in which Sleeman reasons with a Brahmin widow not to commit sati lays out the problem: “It was not enough to expect a piece of legislation or law to change society.” Something we are still grappling with today. Bentinck’s words about the police — “We must also change the way we approach the law… we need better enforcement of the law… and how the officers of the law connect with the people” — may well be applied to our police force today. With its informed depiction of regional and political struggles, caste and gender inequities, the circumstances that drive men to rob and murder, the novel is as much about India today as about an episode from history.  Twilight in a Knotted World  Siddhartha Sarma  Simon & Schuster  Rs. 599||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/thugs-of-hindustan/article33261950.ece
06 December 2020||December 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Yet the pity of it||It is in the class nature of Indian English fiction that it aspires towards certain stylistic felicities: these include the use of fine language and a certain elaborateness of description. At its best, this gives us the brilliance of a novel like The God of Small Things . At its worst, it results in what Terry Eagleton politely dismisses as “fine writing” when talking of literature in general. Sandeep Raina’s A Bit of Everything shows both these tendencies. It is finely written and elaborately described. These can be deadly attributes. But A Bit of Everything escapes the fate of being condemned with faint praise, as “fine writing”, for two major reasons. The first is the obvious intention of the author to capture the beauty of a lost Kashmir. This makes the descriptions necessary. Stolen past The second is the sensitivity of dispossession that impels the narrative. It moves the concerns of this novel far beyond the realm of genteel refinement that sometimes engulfs Indian English storytelling. This novel is driven by something much more than personal refinement or genteel creativity; it is driven by the need to confront, record, attest, understand a never-ending tragedy. It marks the arrival of a voice to watch. At the heart of this novel is the sensibility of the main Kashmiri Pandit protagonist, Rahul, a professor of literature, married to the daughter of a local landlord. To say that Rahul belongs or does not belong would be to force Raina’s brave attempt into foreign moulds. Because Rahul belongs in different ways. In this, he is similar to many of us in India, who have belonged in different ways, and then have been press-ganged into just belonging or not belonging. Much of A Bit of Everything takes place in the 1980s in the small town of Varmull, nestled between the Pir mountains and the Jhelum river. But the beauty and tragedy of Varmull are framed within Rahul’s later travels as a refugee in Europe, a present of deprivation and Islamist terror that forces him to look back on the past that has been stolen from him. Even though the moments in Europe are few and far between, I found them at times more moving than the complex drama of Varmull, because they brought home Rahul’s loss with greater precision. Perhaps distance does that to loss. Or perhaps context, as when Rahul visits the Dachau concentration camp in Germany, where “the old memories begin to crawl out”. The European sections are far less crowded than the Varmull ones, which teem with characters, sometimes overwhelming the reader. But that, I suppose, is inevitable in a novel that attempts to record and recover. The characters are like jigsaw pieces, and need to be assembled at the end to make some sense of the loss that Rahul — and the land — suffered. Shored against the ruins Like every book on Kashmir that I have read, fiction or non-fiction (with the exception of Agha Shahid Ali’s poetry), this one can also be faulted politically. For instance, when the third person narrative tells us that “Azadi was a new idea”. As the reference is to the 1980s, this is a surprising statement, because an independent Kashmir had been discussed on all sides in the 1940s. In July 1947, at a convention of the Muslim Conference in Srinagar, this matter had come to a head, with followers of Acting President Choudhry Hamidullah supporting independence for the State, and those of Mirwaiz Yousuf Shah supporting accession to future Pakistan. It appears to me that everyone involved in and with Kashmir can face up to only some aspects of a tragic and confusing reality. Raina sees this, once memorably talking of “elaborate cause-and-effect chains”. This insight does not offer a political resolution. Despite his imagination, his love for Kashmir and his empathy, even Raina cannot shore up all the fragments of that torn State against its relentless ruin. But then, this is not a book that asks to be read for its politics because, finally, there is no pure political solution. There might, however, be a human solution, and this is a novel that should be read for its humanity. The writer is an Indian novelist and academic who teaches in Denmark.  A Bit of Everything Sandeep Raina Context  Rs. 599    Rahul is similar to many of us in India, who have belonged in different ways, and then have been press-ganged into just belonging or not belonging||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/yet-the-pity-of-it/article33261953.ece
06 December 2020||December 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Brown man’s burden||Of all the stories that came out of colonial India, the tale of the man-cub, Mowgli, has an everlasting hold on the imagination. It continues to be recreated again and again on screen, mostly without irony, even though when Kipling makes his animals holler out the “law of the jungle” — might makes right — we know only too well where that is coming from. Stephen Alter’s Feral Dreams gives The Jungle Book a thorough shake-up. It trails no cloud of candyfloss sentimentality about man or beast: instead, it takes a hard look at some pressing and persistent concerns through Mowgli’s story — loss of fauna through poaching, our presumptions in trying to think and feel with animals, caste prejudices which never go out of fashion in India, and the power structures which must colour all claims of love. Mowgli, reintegrated into human society and now a middle-aged guy working in MIT, is the narrator. Although he spent his early years in the forests, he retains no memory of it. His adoptive mother, the Christian missionary Elizabeth Cranston, gives him his Jungle Book story, imagining him as a child brought up by elephants and langurs. Her unfinished typescript forms the first part of Feral Dreams . She writes like the conservationist that she is, conjuring up the life of the forest with empathy, looking at human intruders as the wary animals might. But even her p.o.v. cannot go unchallenged, especially in the light of later events. Miss Cranston rescues the wild orphan, adopts him, gives him a name (Daniel, while Mowgli remains the secret name only she calls him by) and an identity, but he is not quite taken in. As he says, “Nobody had asked me if I wanted to become Miss Cranston’s son.” He never quite accepts her as his mother and drifts apart as he grows older. While we see Daniel’s point, we also wonder whether he is being too hard-hearted. This uncertainty, whether pertaining to human relationships or to human-animal interactions, is the only certainty in Feral Dreams . In that sense, Feral Dreams is a post post-colonial, post post-modern novel if there ever was one, but without the pyrotechnics that tend to accompany such experiments. It is oddly convincing in its understatedness.  Feral Dreams: Mowgli and His Mothers Stephen Alter Aleph Book Company  Rs. 599||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/brown-mans-burden/article33261955.ece
06 December 2020||December 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Neighbourhood and internal wars in contemporary times||Full Spectrum is the sequel to former Air Vice-Marshal Arjun Subramaniam’s first book, India’s Wars: A Military History, 1947-1971 , and covers Indian military history from 1972 until 2020 presenting an indigenous narrative in addition to covering insurgencies in Nagaland and Manipur excluded in the prequel. The book starts with a brief review of the global and regional contexts in which Indian military’s trajectory progressed and then goes on to explore its conflicts, successes and failures through the prism of history and military strategy. His new book makes a constant endeavour in bringing out the crucible in which Indian military was shaped, the challenges it encountered and the ways in which the organisation responded and endured, even as it touches upon external influences ranging from geopolitics, domestic imperatives and the security landscape that the nation and its military had to cope with. Resource optimisation For a small volume relative to the subject matter it explores, Subramaniam manages to get into remarkable level of detail to weave this narrative and bring these to the reader’s attention. In one particular chapter, ‘India’s Military Renaissance’, for instance, the author covers the iconic platforms of the Indian military, the Nilgiri-class frigate, the MiG-21 and the Bofors 155mm gun. None of these platforms were a game changer for their age, and yet the military services in their own unique ways managed to expand their operational envelope to get the most bang for the buck. These are cases that hold relevance for contemporary debates in military and policy circles on defence procurement. Likewise, his description of the tribulations faced by the Indian army during and in the aftermath of the inglorious Operation Blue Star, juxtaposed with the scenes of non-Sikh soldiers putting their foreheads to the ground when visiting the regimental gurudwara evinced an enduring character of empathy and secularism in the institution. In another section, the book goes through operational level challenges encountered during Operation Meghdoot, the unavailability of calibration charts for firing artillery shells in extreme high-altitude conditions and the gradual learning curve for Indian soldiers eventually leading to a significant success in the capture of the Siachen heights. The author should be credited for carrying his readers along these finer details. Fast-paced summary  Full Spectrum manages to deliver an almost action movie kind rush for its readers in what is essentially an academic enterprise and manages to cover the entire sequence in a fast-paced summary of Indian military history. Besides the Naga and Mizo insurgencies, he also uncovers operations in Sri Lanka, the Maldives, Kashmir, Kargil and the Doklam standoff. The book does a fine job of catering to not just military strategy or military history geeks, but also those who may not be well-versed in the subject. If there is a bone to pick, it is perhaps that it does not investigate in-depth any of these conflicts, though this should be attributed to the limited space and format of the book. In addition, the author’s case would have been helped if footnotes rather than endnotes were used — given the subject at hand this would have made referencing sources easier for an involved reader. Overall, it is a fascinating read, a deeply-researched book that sets a solid foundation for more body of work to come from Indian scholars in this area.  The reviewer is an independent Delhi-based defence and nuclear strategy analyst.  Full Spectrum: India’s Wars, 1972-2020 Arjun Subramaniam HarperCollins  Rs. 899    Full Spectrummanages to deliver an almost action movie kind rush for its readers in what is essentially an academic enterprise||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/neighbourhood-and-internal-wars-in-contemporary-times/article33261965.ece
06 December 2020||December 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Easy like Sunday morning||1 This book was first published on December 6, 1768 at Edinburgh. For more than 250 years it has been the most sought-after English-language general compendium of facts. It pledged to provide “ACCURATE DEFINITIONS and EXPLANATIONS, of all the Terms as they occur in the Order of the Alphabet” and had 2,500 pages. The 15th edition, which came out in 2010 (the last printed edition), spanned 32 volumes and had 32,640 pages written by more than 100 full-time editors with more than 4,000 contributors. What book is this which most libraries have at least one copy of? 2 On page 1,850 of the 1975 edition of The New Columbia Encyclopedia , you would find an entry: ‘ Mountweazel, Lillian Virginia, 1942-1973, American photographer, b. Bangs, Ohio. Turning from fountain design to photography in 1963...Mountweazel died at 31 in an explosion while on assignment for Combustibles magazine .’ Although Ms. Mountweazel has a Facebook page, she is non-existent. To detect what misdemeanour did The New Columbia Encyclopedia include this entry? 3 The Yongle Encyclopedia was commissioned by the Yongle Emperor of the Ming dynasty in 1403. It took five years to complete and finally comprised 22,937 manuscript rolls in 11,095 volumes. Currently, fewer than 400 volumes survive. Till September 9, 2007, it was the largest encyclopedia in the world. What now ubiquitous and familiar entity dethroned the Yongle Encyclopedia after 600 years, and continues to grow daily? 4 Saint Isidore of Seville was one of the “last scholars of the ancient world”. He tried to compile a summa of universal knowledge in his work, Etymologiae , thereby creating one of the first encyclopaedias. This led to him being declared the patron saint of two entities that arguably rule the world of knowledge now. What is St Isidore the patron saint of? 5 Arnold Stephen Jacobs Jr. is an American journalist and an exponent of ‘immersion journalism’, where he uses his own life as an experiment and writes about it. He wrote a book about one such experiment titled The Know-It-All: One Man’s Humble Quest to Become the Smartest Person in the World . But the earliest known person to do this feat was Fath Ali, the Shah of Persia who spent all of 1797 engaged in this marathon pursuit. What achievement is this that G.B. Shaw, Elon Musk and Bill Gates have all supposedly done? 6 The National Library of Scotland has made the first edition (1768) of the Encyclopædia Britannica available to the public. In it, a certain product is described as a luxury, with a prohibition on importing items made of it.. It could, however, be made at home for private use ‘ upon three days notice given to the officer of excise, and provided no less than half an hundred weight be made at one time’ . What item is this that you can now purchase everywhere? 7 In the same edition, this entry made reference to only six entities as the rest of them were yet to be discovered. The first of the rest was discovered on March 13, 1781, so could make it to the seventh edition. The second entity was discovered on September 23, 1846 and was then added to the eighth edition. The final entity was discovered on February 18, 1930 and was added to the 15th edition. What were these three entities? 8 This scientist, regarded as one of the greatest in physics, owes his success to the Encyclopædia Britannica . He was apprenticed to a book dealer as a teenager in the early 1800s, where he chanced upon the third edition. He read the article on electricity, which sparked in him a love for the subject, eventually leading him to discover the principles of electromagnetism. Who was this scientist who himself became an entry in the 11th edition? 9 In 1915, this company issued a challenge to the public to come up with a new design for their main product. An employee of Root Glass Co. took a page from the 11th edition of the Encyclopædia Britannica where there was an illustration of the ribbed, middle-bulged cocoa pod, and fittingly based his design on it. What product is this that since then has become iconic? 10 In 1998 this prominent guitarist wanted to read a book about anatomy by Leonardo da Vinci. He was reaching for it when the shelf broke, sending a set of encyclopaedias tumbling down on top of him. This caused three broken ribs and led to the delay of his band’s tour. He probably must have thought then ‘ I can’t get no satisfaction ’. Which band does he front that has been rocking and rolling since 1962? A molecular biologist from Madurai, our quizmaster enjoys trivia and music, and is working on a rock ballad called ‘Coffee is a Drink, Kaapi is an Emotion’. @bertyashley||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/easy-like-sunday-morning/article33261995.ece
06 December 2020||December 06 2020 00:00 IST,||The game of life||It is a sport that can constrict time or seemingly stretch those minutes. Cricket can be a series of thrilling microseconds, evident in Twenty20s, and it also has long pauses between deliveries or overs, especially in Tests. To unwind a bit during their playing days, Rahul Dravid and V.V.S. Laxman at slips would discuss their kids or the carpentry work in their new homes before snapping back to attention when the bowler commenced his run-up. Cricket offered such indulgences. The willow game lends itself to drama and often throws up rippling performances. In his book Courage, Conviction, Controversy and Cricket , veteran sports writer Vedam Jaishankar strings together an anthology of incidents that fit into the template of the tome’s nomenclature. In that sense this is a book you need not exactly read in a chronological way. Different layers   A random chapter that catches the eye could be delved into and Jaishankar covers a gamut of personalities through his direct style. Known to be opinionated and never one to hold back his punches, the author writes upfront: “Cricket, flush with incidents and personalities, is always an engrossing topic for discussion.” He then reveals the different layers of this great sport starting with a chapter on Bodyline in which England’s Harold Larwood threatened life and limb in a bid to stymie the great Don Bradman, while England aimed at securing the Ashes. The book’s concluding passages deal with R. Ashwin’s penchant to effect a run-out while the non-striker unfairly sneaked out, and the resultant needless debates. The book, though, isn’t entirely about stinkers like for instance Trevor Chappell’s under-arm bowling against New Zealand or the match-fixing crisis that sprung two decades ago. Jaishankar also holds a mirror to stirring deeds like former India captain Mansur Ali Khan Pataudi playing with just one eye; Anil Kumble bowling in the West Indies with a broken jaw or a Malcolm Marshall, despite a fractured hand, ambushing England. And as the pages recede, there are references to the Board of Control for Cricket in India. A quibble or two   It is a book that stays the course of its writer’s ambition: to reflect on cricket’s many facets. May be some paragraphs could have been edited tighter and perhaps Jaishankar could have given credit to Anand Vasu, who broke the story about Paddy Upton’s practical note on sex and cricketers. Anand filed this copy for The Hindustan Times and Jaishankar mentions the publication but not the correspondent. Guess it is the author’s prerogative. There is also a factual slip wherein former India opener Navjot Singh Sidhu recalls Sachin Tendulkar’s debut series in Pakistan in 1989 and there is his quote: “I thought, oh! only he (Tendulkar) and Kapil are left and after that Kumble…” Just that Kumble made his debut in 1990. Yet, this a book that offers a wide gaze. Curious about the Greg Chappell-Sourav Ganguly spat or want to know about Yuvraj Singh’s battle with cancer? Pick this one up and read the specific chapter and Jaishankar, with his research, delivers.  Courage, Conviction, Controversy and Cricket  Vedam Jaishankar  Westland Sport  Rs. 699||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-game-of-life/article33261967.ece
06 December 2020||December 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Expert imagination||The correct action with the South hand over East’s pre-empt is not clear, but South’s choice of double was certainly reasonable. North was slightly aggressive in forcing to game, but he wanted to “be sure” of landing in a 4-4 major suit fit. It was unlucky that no such fit existed. South, American expert Alan Sontag, had another tough bidding decision to make, and he chose to bid his better three-card major. East won the opening diamond lead with his ace and shifted to the king of clubs. Sontag realised that there was no chance for the king of spades to be right, as East couldn’t possibly have that card along with diamond strength and the king of clubs. This meant that the clubs would have to divide 2-2. Sontag captured the king with his ace and led another club, pleased to see the suit split evenly. A second diamond from West went to Sontag’s king as dummy shed a club. 3-3 spades would make life easy, but Sontag had already seen the clubs split 2-2 and no one is entitled to that much luck. Releasing the ace of spades would put West in control of the suit, so Sontag led the jack of spades from his hand. West ducked his king so Sontag continued with the 10 of spades. West grabbed his king this time, but the fall of the nine from East left Sontag in command. Sontag ruffed the diamond continuation with the ace in his hand, crossed to dummy in hearts and drew the rest of the trumps. Very well played!||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/expert-imagination/article33261989.ece
06 December 2020||December 06 2020 00:00 IST,||How to deal with chithis||Dear Agony Aunt,  Ever since Kamala Harris has become Vice-President elect, and particularly after she gave a shout-out to her chithi s, my own mother’s spinster sisters (who have seven cats between them) have been acting very weird. They insist that I too publicly acknowledge — several times a day — their materteral influence in my life. If I demur, they get their cats to hiss at me in chorus. Please tell me how I can deal with such chudail chithi s. I am beginning to now wonder if Kamala mami humoured her desi kinswomen under similar duress. — Nephew Under   Tremendous Stress     Dear NUTS,  First things first. Let me acquaint you with a woman in Etah, Uttar Pradesh, who recently earned her 15 minutes of fame for the same reasons that have over the years won our plucky pugilist Mary Kom much distinction in the square ring. The story, from what I’ve been able to reconstruct from the graphic ground reports provided by my Ladies’ Group members (all of whom have a healthy interest in strangers’ lives), is that the woman went shopping ahead of the Karva Chauth  festival, when suddenly she got caught in a feisty catfight with a teenaged girl. Initial speculation focused on the possibility that our calorifically endowed Cat Woman was perhaps irritably afflicted by a marked diminution in blood sugar levels, such as one might reasonably expect in anyone who contemplates the prospect of fasting for a day. But more sustained interrogation established that the hostilities were triggered for non-endocrinological reasons. Turns out the teenaged girl had thoughtlessly addressed our Cat Woman as ‘Aunty’. Which is when Cat Woman, who rightly saw it for the ageist affront it was, came out swinging and very nearly kayoed the girl. Now, NUTS, none of this has anything to do with Kamala Harris or your chithi s. But I am sure you know by now why I enriched your life with this compelling narrative. I may not be from Etah, but you address me as ‘Aunty’ only at the risk of having your facial features reconfigured. If you wish to claim any sort of kinship, you may address me as ‘Agony Akka’, but that’s as good as it gets. Now, for your chithi s. From the body of anecdotal evidence you’ve furnished thus far, they come across as mildly whimsical. But they are no more so than you might reasonably expect to see these days in any extended family with forward-happy WhatsApp uncles. In fact, compared to a few other cuckoo characters I know, they seem to lack a defining oddball characteristic. In Odisha, for instance, there was a man who took to living on a tree for 15 years after a sudden breakdown in diplomatic relations with his wife. And compared to the decidedly dotty things that go on within families — check out the #MyFamilyIsWeird hashtag confessions that came in response to a call-out from comedian Jimmy Fallon a while ago — and your catty-batty chithi s seem positively pedestrian. In any case, the gold standard for auntly absurdities was set in Truman Capote’s short story ‘My Side of the Matter’. Once you read it, I feel sure you will see your kinswomen as perhaps somewhat deserving of janmabhoomi mandir s in their honour. So long as you don’t suddenly find your sambar garnished with protein supplements — of the sort that might be procured from a Wuhan wet market — you’re fine. There is, however, one characteristic in your aunts that holds appeal for me: their seeming cat-whisperer capacity to channel feline ferocity. It strikes me as a useful leverage to acquire against my own nephews — in the unfortunate event that they someday take to calling me their chudail chithi or write letters to newspapers to cast aspersions on my mental faculties.  — AA   agony.akka@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/how-to-deal-with-chithis/article33261986.ece
06 December 2020||December 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Superstar politics||Actor Rajinikanth announced that he would launch his political party in January 2021 and contest in the upcoming Tamil Nadu Assembly elections. “A spiritual politics will emerge in Tamil Nadu... free of caste and religious bias… miracles will happen,” he tweeted in Tamil. Earlier in the week, he met with office bearers of the Rajini Makkal Mandram, the outfit he began in 2018 as a precursor to his formal entry into politics.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/superstar-politics/article33261915.ece
06 December 2020||December 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Cyclone season||A week after Nivar, another cyclone moved towards Kerala and southern Tamil Nadu. While Tamil Nadu experienced heavy rains, Kerala was kept on high alert with Cyclone Burevi expected to cross into Thiruvananthapuram by Friday evening. Some 26 NDRF teams were on standby in the States, with Kerala evacuating people from danger zones before the rains and strong winds struck.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/cyclone-season/article33261917.ece
06 December 2020||December 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Fast track||The U.K. became the first Western country to approve a COVID-19 vaccine. The Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine, reportedly 95% effective, was approved 23 days after its final stage clinical trial results were published. It will start reaching the most vulnerable people this week, after the first 800,000 doses arrive. The U.K. regulator emphasised that “no corners had been cut” in the process.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/fast-track/article33261919.ece
06 December 2020||December 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Pardon parade||Even as Arizona and Wisconsin certified Joe Biden’s victory in the presidential race, U.S. President Donald Trump repeated his claims of voter fraud in a video statement. Meanwhile, the Justice department investigated an alleged “bribery for pardon” scheme at the White House, described in a heavily redacted court filing. This comes amid speculation that Trump plans to issue a spate of pardons before leaving office next month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/pardon-parade/article33261921.ece
06 December 2020||December 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Fastest bat||Virat Kohli broke Sachin Tendulkar’s record to become the fastest cricketer to score 12,000 ODI runs. He reached the benchmark when he scored his 23rd run during the third and final match against Australia in Canberra. This was his 242nd innings; it took Tendulkar 300 innings. India went on to win the match by 13 runs, with an impressive 92 by Hardik Pandya, although the Aussies clinched the series 2-1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/fastest-bat/article33261923.ece
06 December 2020||December 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Behind bars||A Hong Kong court sentenced democracy activists Joshua Wong, Agnes Chow and Ivan Lam to between seven and 13½ months in prison for organising a protest at the police headquarters against the bitterly contested extradition law in June 2019. The three, all in their 20s, had pleaded guilty, and this will be the fourth prison term for Wong.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/behind-bars/article33261927.ece
06 December 2020||December 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Iron brotherhood||China and Pakistan signed a new military memorandum of understanding during defence minister and PLA general Wei Fenghe’s visits to Islamabad and Rawalpindi. While the exact terms of the agreement were not immediately revealed, Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan called on both countries to “push the military-to-military relationship to a higher level”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/iron-brotherhood/article33261929.ece
06 December 2020||December 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Game over||Andhra Pradesh’s Legislative Assembly banned “online games for winning money or any other stakes” with an amendment to the Andhra Pradesh Gaming Act, 1974. Ministers argued that easily accessible online gambling was leading to addiction, debts and suicides, as well as a risk of increased money laundering and fraud. The State submitted a list of 132 such apps and websites to the Centre, asking for them to be blocked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/game-over/article33261931.ece
06 December 2020||December 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Love Your life||Sophie Kinsella  Penguin Random House Rs. 699 Ava meets a handsome stranger at a writing retreat in Italy, and they fall in love without even knowing each other’s real names. But when they return home, they’re both driven mad by each other’s families. Can they overcome their differences to find a life together?||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/love-your-life/article33261957.ece
06 December 2020||December 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Waiting for the Dust to Settle||Veio Pou  Speaking Tiger Rs. 399 Set in Manipur during the days of the army operation codenamed Operation Bluebird, this novel is narrated through the eyes of 10-year-old Rakovei, who witnesses the horror unfolding around him. He wanted to become a soldier until he comes to see the truth behind the glamour of military uniforms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/waiting-for-the-dust-to-settle/article33261959.ece
06 December 2020||December 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Terror in Islamabad||Amar Bhushan  HarperCollins India Rs. 250 Working undercover as cultural attaché at the Indian Embassy in Pakistan, Veer Singh is on a top-secret mission. He succeeds in evading suspicion until one day counter-intelligence forces get wind of his activities. How long can a man survive when confronted with a formidable enemy on his own turf?||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/terror-in-islamabad/article33261961.ece
06 December 2020||December 06 2020 00:00 IST,||The Kathasaritsagara of Somadava||Meena Arora Nayak  Aleph Book Company Rs. 999 TheKathasaritsagarahas several hundred stories that owe their origin to India’s huge cache of myth, scripture and folklore. Snake gods rub shoulders with enchanted princesses, kings battlerakshasasas tall as the sky, and fools parley with ghouls in this retelling of the Sanskrit epic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-kathasaritsagara-of-somadava/article33261963.ece
06 December 2020||December 06 2020 00:00 IST,||The Water Phoenix||Rituparna Chatterjee  Bloomsbury  Rs. 699 When Chatterjee loses her mother at the age of five, she is sent to a relative’s home, where she is bullied and sexually abused. How does she cope with it and heal? In her memoir, she gives voice to countless victims of abuse, and suggests ways to move on in the path of recovery.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-water-phoenix/article33261972.ece
06 December 2020||December 06 2020 00:00 IST,||JNU Stories: The First 50 Years||Edited by Neeladri Bhattacharya & Others  Aleph  Rs. 999 To celebrate the silver jubilee of Jawaharlal Nehru University, prominent alumni as well as those who have been an integral part of the institution chart its history from the beginnings through the times when it expanded and developed unique centres and schools.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/jnu-stories-the-first-50-years/article33261976.ece
06 December 2020||December 06 2020 00:00 IST,||A Social Theory of Corruption: Notes from the Indian Subcontinent||Sudhir Chella Rajan  Harvard University Press  Rs. 553 (Kindle edition) Using South Asia as a case study, Rajan argues that corruption can be identified by paying attention to social orders and the elites they support. Not just bribes but also caste, gender relations, and the reproduction of class are forms of corruption.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/a-social-theory-of-corruption-notes-from-the-indian-subcontinent/article33261978.ece
06 December 2020||December 06 2020 00:00 IST,||From Pony to Unicorn: Scaling a Start-Up Sustainably||Sanjeev Aggarwal, T.N. Hari  Penguin Random House  Rs. 599 The journey of a business, from a small start-up to a large company ready for an initial public offering (IPO), is fraught with pitfalls and landmines. Peppered with anecdotes, insights and practical wisdom, this volume describes the principles of scaling start-ups.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/from-pony-to-unicorn-scaling-a-start-up-sustainably/article33261974.ece
06 December 2020||December 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Consent to contempt||Attorney General of India K.K. Venugopal gave his consent to a law student to initiate contempt proceedings against Rachita Taneja, creator of the webcomicSanitary Panels. Taneja faces the charges for her cartoons depicting the Supreme Court granting bail toRepublic TVeditor Arnab Goswami in an abetment to suicide case. The AG said Taneja’s cartoons were an “audacious assault and insult to the institution”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/consent-to-contempt/article33261925.ece
06 December 2020||December 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Sunday Recipe||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/sunday-recipe/article33261913.ece
06 December 2020||December 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Challenges in achieving herd immunity through vaccination||On December 1, Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said that the government has never spoken about vaccinating the entire country against COVID-19. Adding to that, Director-General of ICMR Dr. Balram Bhargava said: “If we’re able to vaccinate a critical mass of people and break virus transmission, then we may not have to vaccinate the entire population.” But the government’s idea of vaccinating a “critical mass of people” for the purpose of breaking the virus transmission chain is riddled with challenges. Unlike the mRNA vaccines from Pfizer and Moderna, the interim analysis of Phase-3 trial of the Oxford vaccine has shown promise to prevent virus transmission. But the prime objective of the Phase-3 trials was to test the ability to prevent severe disease. It is only when the final analysis of Phase-3 data of the Oxford vaccine and other vaccines in development become available can the government be certain of breaking the transmission chain through vaccination. On the issue of the government shying away from universal vaccination, Dr. Anant Bhan, a researcher in global health and bioethics, says in an email: “We need a clear enunciation of the plan. If it is to vaccinate a subset of the population, we need to see a scientific rationale for that choice, and how the decision to select the subset was made.” “For a disease where everyone is equally affected, immunisation should be available to all when vaccines are ready. It is important to remember that vaccines are a tool to promote health equity,” Dr. Gagandeep Kang, Professor of Microbiology at CMC Vellore says in an email. “If the goal is to achieve herd immunity, we will need about 70% of the population to be covered. Unlike other infections where groups which have high risk of transmission can be identified, the task is complicated for SARS-CoV-2.” Uneven transmission For instance, the levels of immunisation needed for herd immunity are determined by how the virus spreads in the population, and makes the assumption that spread is homogenous. But SARS-CoV-2 virus spread exhibits a high level of uneven transmission. This is the reason why there have been a number of super-spreading events where some infected individuals spread the virus to very a large number of people while most infected individuals transmit the virus only to a few or none. Considering that two doses of the vaccine are needed for full protection and increased vaccine hesitancy particularly as the vaccine development and testing are seen to be rushed, achieving herd immunity of 70% to break the chain would be challenging. According to Dr. Kang, it was only in January this year that India achieved 90% coverage of all vaccines to be given in infancy. If there is a drop in vaccine coverage in children beyond their first year of life in the immunisation programme, it becomes particularly difficult in the case of SARS-CoV-2. Aim high “With COVID-19 vaccines, we will also need to reach age groups which are not currently targeted as part of the large-scale immunisation efforts. This will be a design, logistics and implementation challenge. All of these aspects are important to consider while considering the country-wide COVID-19 immunisation plans,” says Dr. Bhan. Dr. Kang adds: “So if anyone were to ask me, I would say aim high from the start, even if coverage is in phases.” Clinical trials test the efficacy of the vaccine, while the actual effectiveness of the vaccine will be known only when a large number of people are vaccinated post-licensure. Also, the duration of protection is not known and hence how frequently the vaccine has to be administered remains unknown. It is critically important to understand these to make sure that no resources are diverted from existing immunisation programmes that need to continue, she says. Ethical challenges Considering that the government has already listed out the high-priority groups that will receive the vaccine, the issue of choosing other sections of the population that needs to be vaccinated to achieve herd immunity will be ethically challenging. “Objective, transparent processes for making priority-setting decisions are extremely important to maintain trust in the vaccination plans. These should be communicated publicly, including the rationale for the choices, and there should be a mechanism of appeal. Public inputs are crucial,” says Dr. Bhan. Incidentally, the intent behind identifying the high-priority groups to receive the vaccine first was to safeguard them from severe disease and not to break the virus transmission chain. “Breaking the chain of transmission with partial vaccination of populations is not a concept I understand. Control of transmission requires either very high levels of coverage or combining vaccination at a reasonable level with well implemented testing and isolation,” comments Dr. Kang. “I thought the purpose for prioritisation was to protect those at risk of severe disease first and then move to lower risk groups.” Updating the evidence Another contentious area is the question of vaccinating those who have already been infected. “The immunity offered by the natural infection is probably long term. Till date, we are not aware of the added benefits or risks of vaccinating the people who are already infected. It is time we start doing some quick trials to update the evidence based on the contextual needs,” says Dr. Giridhara Babu, Epidemiologist at Bengaluru’s Public Health Foundation of India. Citing the Oxford vaccine trial results that showed 90% efficacy in those who received half dose-full dose regimen, Dr. Babu feels those who have had mild or no symptoms either due to low viral inoculation dose or with better immune response, or both might respond better with vaccination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/challenges-in-achieving-herd-immunity-through-vaccination/article33261328.ece
06 December 2020||December 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Keeping secrets in a quantum world and going beyond||Every online transaction we make with another person is protected so that a third person cannot read it without the permission of the two people exchanging the information in the first place. This process is called encryption of the data. The first person, say Alice, sends an encrypted message to the second, say Bob. How can Alice ensure that only Bob has the key to the code she has set and a trespasser, say Kate, can see that there is a transaction but cannot intercept it? To use a simple and oft-used analogy – let Alice send a trunk to Bob with a lock on it. Bob receives the trunk and locks it the second time with his own lock, sending it back to Alice. Alice now removes her lock and sends the trunk back to Bob. Bob now can unlock the lock he had put and open the trunk to see the secret message. Thus, while the transaction took place in full public view, only Alice and Bob were able to read the message inside the trunk. In the time of the classical computer, the lock in question consists of a problem that is mathematically hard for the computer to solve. For example, Alice takes a two very large prime numbers, that is, numbers that are only divisible by themselves and by one. She multiplies the two and creates an even larger number. She uses this number to encrypt or lock her message to Bob. Kate, now is in trouble because, in order to break the lock, she has to factorise a very large number whose factors are large prime numbers. This is difficult because if the prime factors are large enough, the problem becomes very difficult to crack for a classical computer. It would take the classical computer “exponentially large” time to guess the factors. This mathematical problem known as integer factorisation is one of the methods presently used to encrypt our secret or private messages. There are other methods using the so-called discrete logarithm problem, which again would take a normal computer exponentially large time to crack. Quantum computers This was all well, as long as we only had to deal with classical computers. Now, enters the quantum computer. One of the basic elements that make up this quantum computer is that where the classical one uses bits to compute this one uses “qubits”. What is the difference? Classical bits can take the value 0 or 1, allowing for a binary system to be set up and the lowest level of computer language is done manipulating these bits. A qubit on the other hand can exist as a superposition of two states 0 and 1. So if you have an n-qubit number, it can exist as a superposition of 2n states. This also allows for immense amount of parallel processing. Hence the question of whether these problems which are “hard” for the classical computer become easier for a quantum one has the disturbing answer – yes. So, a new cryptography has to be devised, and that is where IIT Madras professor, Shweta Agrawal’s work comes into play. She works not just with quantum cryptography but with post quantum cryptography – a field which deals with additional possibilities offered by a quantum system, which goes beyond being able to break the integer factor code. Enter lattices One of the main contenders for a mathematical problem that is hard for the quantum computer to crack is the so-called shortest vector problem. This involves lattices. Lattices are regular arrangement of points in space; examples in nature include honeycombs and all crystalline solids, like common salt. A line of regularly spaced points is a lattice in one dimension, and a crystal of salt is a three-dimensional lattice. Mathematically, we can extend this construction to 5, 10 or even 500 dimensions. At this magnitude, it becomes in theory a “hard” problem for a quantum computer to calculate the shortest vector from one point to any other point. This problem can therefore be used to construct “locks” that can even withstand a quantum attack. In her work which appeared at conferences Eurocrypt 2019 and 2020, Dr. Agrawal provides new methods to construct such encryption schemes which are secure against quantum computers. As an example of what one can achieve using such encryption schemes, take two companies which are considering a merger, and want to find out if it will be mutually profitable by engaging in some computation, but without revealing their assets to each other. “We can encrypt the information about their individual assets, and provide a secret key which only reveals the output of the computation and does not reveal anything about the inputs!” says Dr. Agrawal. Thus, it follows as she says: “In modern cryptography, not only can we create locks on information so that quantum computers cannot break them, we can even design the locks so that the information inside the locks can be manipulated without even opening the locks!”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/keeping-secrets-in-a-quantum-world-and-going-beyond/article33261323.ece
06 December 2020||December 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Lessons in tiger conservation from Malenad||With heavy rainfall, picturesque mountainous terrain and varied flora and fauna, Malenad in Karnataka is also home to the magnificent tiger. The present estimates suggest the tiger population here has increased from approximately 70 to 391 individuals in about 45 years. A new paper has summarised the research and conservation work carried out in this region by the Centre for Wildlife Studies (CWS) in Bengaluru. It details the problems that still need to be addressed if the tiger numbers have to triple. The researchers hope that these lessons can be applied in the management of wild tiger populations in other parts of the country and globally as well. Larger, elusive species The research team carried out a unique macro ecology study across these very large landscapes, involving larger, elusive animal species over a long period between 1986 and 2017. They collected data on tiger ecology, predator–prey ecology, anthropogenic impacts, existing and emergent conflicts. “When we started our work, there was almost zero knowledge about tiger population biology. We carried out innovative work developing new methodologies including identification of individual tigers and leopards from their coat patterns using photos obtained through automated camera traps. We applied new pattern matching software for this purpose and estimating big cat numbers from these data,” explains K. Ullas Karanth, Emeritus Director, Centre for Wildlife Studies, Bengaluru, and the lead author of the study recently published in the journal Biological Conservation. “We also applied line transects to estimate prey animal densities and occupancy modelling of track survey data to estimate animal species distributions for the first time in Asia. Now many wildlife researchers across Asia as well as in Africa and South America have started applying our methods in those areas” Though Malenad has over 21,000 square kilometres of potential habitat, reproducing tiger populations are found to survive in less than 30% of the area. The team writes: “If tiger recovery efforts can be optimised in the future, the Malenad landscape can potentially support approximately 1,300 wild tigers.” Dr. Karanth suggests that “tiger tourism” can be expanded beyond government-managed wildlife reserves to adjacent agricultural areas outside. “This has been implemented successfully in countries like Kenya and Brazil. Local populations can economically benefit from the growth of the tourism sector. In this manner we can add to tiger habitat using tourism incentives, rather than increasingly trashing our wildlife reserves through excessive tourism pressures,” he adds. Debated topic But resettlement of people living inside reserves continues to be a debated topic. “This is a complex conservation issue because fundamentally people living inside reserves have well-documented negative consequences for wildlife and biodiversity because of human activities. For people living inside some want to continue to live inside due to long term ancestral and social connections to the land while many others want to relocate outside seeking to better their lives in the face of hardships they endure daily,” explains Krithi Karanth from the Centre for Wildlife Studies, Bengaluru, and one of the authors of the paper in an email to The Hindu. “These problems include high human–wildlife conflict, lack of access to quality health care and education, and isolation from a rapidly changing world. This needs to be viewed as a freedom of choice – the choice to move or stay which often gets mixed up.” She concludes: “We face a huge variety of conservation challenges including managing existing wildlife reserves, human-wildlife conflict, land-use change, impacts from infrastructure growth and development, the emergence of zoonotic diseases, wildlife trade and poaching, and these need to be addressed while continuing to monitor wildlife populations.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/lessons-in-tiger-conservation-from-malenad/article33261321.ece
06 December 2020||December 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Versatile alligators||Can animals other than lizards regrow the tail? It is not just lizards and geckos, anew study now shows that young alligators also have the ability to regrow their tails. The study team from the U.S. speculates that this ability gives them a functional advantage in their murky habitats. Their findings were published in Scientific Reports.  Advanced imaging techniques were used to study the anatomy and tissue organisation. In a press release from Arizona State University, lead author Cindy Xu explains: “Regrowth of cartilage, blood vessels, nerves, and scales were consistent with previous studies of lizard tail regeneration... However, we were surprised to discover scar-like connective tissue in place of skeletal muscle in the regrown alligator tail. Future comparative studies will be important to understand why regenerative capacity is variable among different reptile and animal groups.” Another author of the paper Kenro Kusumi said that evolution might also have had an important role in this “The ancestors of alligators and dinosaurs and birds split off around 250 million years ago... Our finding that alligators have retained the cellular machinery to regrow complex tails while birds have lost that ability raises the question of when during evolution this ability was lost.” The team hopes that understanding how different animals repair and regenerate tissues can help in developing new therapies for treating injuries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/versatile-alligators/article33261322.ece
06 December 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi records over 3,000 new cases with 77 deaths||The Capital witnessed 3,419 new COVID-19 cases in the last 24 hours, taking the total to 5,89,544, stated a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Saturday. The death toll has reached 9,574 with 77 more fatalities reported in a single day. Of the total cases, 5,53,292 people have recovered and there are now 26,678 active cases. A total of 81,473 tests were done in the past 24 hours. It is the second day in a row when over 80,000 tests have been conducted. The positivity rate on Saturday was 4.2%, less than the average daily positivity in November, which was 11.65%. The overall positivity till now was 8.84%, as per the bulletin. Out of the total 18,843 beds available for COVID-19 treatment, 65.7% were vacant, as per the bulletin. Around 70.2% of ICU beds with ventilators were occupied by Saturday night and 52.4% of the ICU beds without ventilators were full. In November, there were days when over 50% of beds were occupied and about 90% of ICU beds with ventilators were full. There are now 6,045 containment zones in the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/delhi-records-over-3000-new-cases-with-77-deaths/article33261544.ece
06 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Childhood on hold||Countless residents across the Capital who lost their jobs during the lockdown are still struggling to find work four months after COVID-19 restrictions were relaxed to revive the economy. Many children of such households have decided to put their education on hold so they can take up odd jobs to help sustain their families. Kunal Kumar, 14, who lives with his grandmother and younger sister, had to go on a job hunt after his grandmother lost her job. “My grandmother used to work as a domestic help, but she has been out of work since the lockdown as nobody is willing to call her back. I had to step in as I have a younger sister. I took up odd jobs such as cleaning basements and parking lots for which I used to get Rs. 500-Rs. 700 per week,” said Kunal. But the job did not last long. “Two weeks after I started working, the employer asked me to not come any more as the previous employee had come back. So, now I do not have anything to do again. A few days ago, I joined a wedding band and played the dhol . I managed to earn Rs. 300 per hour from it. Now, I just have to do whatever comes my way.” ‘I had no option’ For Saahil Mathur, 17, taking care of his family of five has meant opting out of his studies for the time being. “For the last one month I have been working as a helper in a ration shop for which I get paid Rs. 5,000. My parents lost their jobs during the lockdown, so, I had to put my studies on hold and take up a job. I had no option. I had to ensure there was food on our plates,” said the Class 11 student. “My older sister is in Class 12 and she is struggling with her studies as we do not have phones. Had everything been okay, I would have prepared for the civil services examination... I want to go back to studying whenever possible,” he said. Amar Kumar, 16, said, “Out of the Rs. 5,000 that I earn, over Rs. 3,000 is spent on rent and electricity. During lockdown, my mother lost her job as a domestic help and since then I have stepped in. There is no question of continuing with my studies right now.” Eleven-year-old Yash Prasad said he has been “somehow managing” to take online classes. “Attending classes has become difficult as we have only one phone at home and usually I have to use it on an alternate basis with my brother to ensure both of us attend at least some of our classes,” said Yash, an EWS quota student of a private school in south Delhi. “Attending music classes and other activity sessions have also posed a problem as I do not have the instruments. I want to become an engineer as I like tinkering with gadgets but sometimes I do not have the required material. I am hoping for school to reopen soon,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/childhood-on-hold/article33261539.ece
06 December 2020||December 06 2020 00:00 IST,||Caste in the census||The story so far: The Tamil Nadu government has decided to appoint a commission to formulate a methodology to collect caste-wise particulars of its population and use that to come up with a report. It is not clear if this will involve a full headcount of all members of every caste, or whether it is better described as a ‘survey’ than a ‘census’. The Centre conducted a ‘Socio-Economic Caste Census’ (SECC) in 2011 throughout the country, but it did not make public the caste component of the findings. In Karnataka, the outcome of a similar exercise has not been disclosed to the public. Is collection of caste details part of the census? Caste was among the details collected by enumerators during the decennial Census of India until 1931. It was given up in 1941, a year in which the census operation was partially affected by World War II. In his report on the 1941 exercise, then Census Commissioner of India, M.W.M. Yeatts, indicated that tabulation of caste details separately involved additional costs. “The sanctioned tabulation for British India does not cover caste, but even had the full course been taken, there would have been no all-India caste table. Even in 1931, it was severely limited due to financial reasons; the time is past for this enormous and costly table...,” he wrote. However, at the time of sorting the details, some provinces or States that wanted a caste record for administrative reasons were given some data on payment. Has there been criticism of including caste in the census? The principal argument against taking caste particulars of individuals is that it tends to perpetuate the caste system. J.H. Hutton, the Census Commissioner in 1931, notes that on the occasion of each successive census since 1901, some criticism had been raised about taking any note of the fact of caste. “It has been alleged that the mere act of labelling persons as belonging to a caste tends to perpetuate the system,” he writes. However, he rejects the criticism, arguing that there is nothing wrong in recording a fact, and ignoring its existence would be ostrich-like. What was the view after Independence? R.A. Gopalaswami, the first Indian Registrar-General of independent India, said in the 1951 report: “The 1951 census wasnot[emphasis in the original] to concern itself with questions regarding castes, races and tribes, except insofar as the necessary statistical material related to ‘special groups’ and certain other material relating to backward classes collected and made over to the Backward Classes Commission.” ‘Special Groups’ has been explained as referring to Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes, Anglo-Indians and certain castes treated provisionally as ‘backward’ for the purposes of the census. This implies that BC  data were collected, but not compiled or published. How have caste details been collected so far? While SC/ST details are collected as part of the census, details of other castes are not collected by the enumerators. The main method is by self-declaration to the enumerator. So far, backward classes commissions in various States have been conducting their own counts to ascertain the population of backward castes. The methodology may vary from State to State. Details available about some commissions in the public domain suggest that these panels use methods like distribution of questionnaires, meeting with representatives of stakeholders, touring relevant areas and localities, and in some cases, such as the J.A. Ambasankar Commission in Tamil Nadu and the Venkataswamy Commission in Karnataka , door-to-door enumeration. What about SECC 2011? The Socio-Economic Caste Census of 2011 was a major exercise to obtain data about the socio-economic status of various communities. Even though there could be an overlap in the dataset of SECC 2011 with that of the census taken that year, the findings could be markedly different. The general census is conducted in a small window of a month, while the caste census is conducted over a longer period of time, and there is a good deal of revision and correction. The SECC 2011 had two components: a survey of the rural and urban households and ranking of these households based on pre-set parameters, and a caste census. However, only the details of the economic conditions of the people in rural and urban households were released. The caste data have not been released till now. While a precise reason is yet to be disclosed, it is surmised that the data were considered too politically sensitive. Fear of antagonising dominant and powerful castes that may find that their projected strength in the population is not as high as claimed may be an important reason. What is the legal imperative for a caste count? Over the last two decades, the Supreme Court has been raising questions about the basis for reservation levels being high in various States. In particular, it has laid down that there should be quantifiable data to justify the presence of a caste in the backward class list, as well as evidence of its under-representation in services. It has also called for periodical review of community-wise lists so that the benefits do not perpetually go in favour of a few castes.  So far, backward classes commissions in various States have been conducting their own counts to ascertain the population of backward castes. The methodology may vary from State to State||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/caste-in-the-census/article33261246.ece
06 December 2020||New Delhi,||BJP demands action against ‘tainted AAP members’||A day after suspending one of its sitting councillors post his arrest by the CBI for allegedly accepting a bribe, the Delhi BJP on Saturday demanded action against “tainted” leaders in AAP. Delhi BJP media in-charge Naveen Kumar demanded action against AAP leader Santosh Singh, who was arrested for alleged extortion. “When will CM Arvind Kejriwal take action against corrupt leaders in AAP? The CBI has registered corruption cases against Health Minister Satyendra Jain, who is considered extremely close to Mr. Kejriwal but the latter made him a Minister and made sure that his corruption cases are not to be opened,” he alleged. “Santosh Singh, a senior leader from Sangam Vihar Assembly Constituency was arrested in connection with the kidnapping of a businessman and extortion. But Mr. Kejriwal has given Mr. Singh primary membership,” Mr. Kumar added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bjp-demands-action-against-tainted-aap-members/article33261542.ece
06 December 2020||GURUGRAM,||Man held for stabbing three men to death||A 22-year-old man has been arrested by the Gurugram police for allegedly stabbing three people to death on consecutive days last month during robbery attempts. His victims include a security guard and an office boy, while the third victim remains unidentified. The accused, Mohammad Razi, hails from Bihar. He was arrested by a joint team of Palam Vihar and Sector 40 Crime Units at IFFCO Chowk on Thursday after getting a tip-off. The accused had been without a job for almost a month, the police said, adding that he would strike up a conversation with a stranger before inviting him for drinks, and then stabbed him. He had earlier worked as a housekeeping employee at a guest house in Delhi. Razi stabbed a young man, yet to be identified, near Maharana Pratap Swaran Jayanti Park in Sector 29 on the intervening night of November 23 and 24, followed by the murder of Akhilesh, a security guard, in Sector 40 the next night. He then stabbed Rakesh Kumar, 26, and severed his head and dumped the body in Sector 47 on the intervening night of November 25 and 26. Rakesh was identified with a Aadhar card found on his body and the investigation into the case led to the arrest. The police scrutinised more than 250 closed-circuit television footage during the investigation of the case. Rakesh worked at Deep Plaza and had come to the city from Uttar Pradesh. Razi purportedly told the police that he would stab the victim to death and decamped with their phone and cash.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/man-held-for-stabbing-three-men-to-death/article33261541.ece
