08 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Farmer leaders seek non-political support||On the eve of the Bharat Bandh, farmer leaders tried to find a balance between highlighting Opposition endorsement of the nationwide strike call as a sign of the widening support for their movement and refuting the government’s accusation that the protests have now been hijacked by vested political interests. “We want to thank political parties for support, but we appeal to them to leave their own flags and banners at home and stand solely in support of farmers,” said Krantikari Kisan Union president Darshan Pal while addressing a press conference called by Punjab’s farmer leaders at the Singhu border on Monday. So far, 24 political parties have come out in support of the bandh, according to farmers’ groups. They include Congress and Left parties, and regional outfits such as DMK, TRS, SP, BSP, RJD, Shiv Sena, NCP, SAD, Trinamool Congress, AIMIM, AAP, JMM and the Gupkar Alliance. Ahead of the bandh, the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) on Monday issued an advisory to all the States and Union Territories that no untoward incident should occur during Tuesday’s strike. The advisory asked them to maintain peace and tranquility and ensure that all COVID-19 guidelines are strictly followed. An MHA official said additional security personnel have been deployed across the national capital. The farm union leaders said the strike will be effective from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. adding that no essential or emergency services will be disrupted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/seek-non-political-support-for-bharat-bandh-farmer-leaders/article33275025.ece
08 December 2020||MANGALURU,||220 gram panchayats to go to the polls in DK in two phases||As many as 220 gram panchayats will go to the polls in Dakshina Kannada in two phases on December 22 and December 27. The notification for the first phase of elections was issued on Monday. Addressing presspersons here on Monday, Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra said that in the gram panchayats where elections will be held in the second phase, the names in the voters’ list can be registered till December 8. The deadline for registering names in the voters’ list in the panchayats where the elections will be held in the first phase got over on December 3. First phase The Deputy Commissioner said that elections in the first phase, on December 22, will be conducted to 1,681 seats in 106 gram panchayats in Mangaluru, Moodbidri, and Bantwal taluks. There will be 817 polling booths in the first phase. Nominations for the first phase polling should be submitted by December 11. They will be scrutinised on December 12. The last date for withdrawal of nominations will be December 14. If need be, re-polling will be held in the three taluks on December 24. Second phase He said that 114 gram panchayats in Belthangady, Puttur, Sullia, and Kadaba taluks will go to the polls on December 27. The polling will be conducted to 1,541 seats in 710 booths. The notification for the second phase polling will be issued on December 11. Nominations will have to be filed by December 16 and they will be scrutinised on December 17. The last date for withdrawal of nominations will be December 19. If required, re-polling will be conducted on December 29. The polling will take place from 7 a.m. to 5 p.m. The counting in taluk headquarters will begin on December 30 from 8 a.m. The election process will get over on December 31. Mr. Rajendra said that ballot papers will be used for the elections. In all, 2626 polling boxes have been kept ready. There will be 220 election officers and 233 assistant election officers. Depositing arms The Deputy Commissioner said that as per the directions of the Election Commission those who are holding guns and revolvers in the jurisdiction of gram panchayats will have to surrender them in police stations or government authorised agencies before the elections. If anybody wants an exemption to retain their guns with them to protect their crops from wild animals such persons will have to apply to the tahsildars by December 10. A screening committee, headed by tahsildars, will review the applications and recommend to the Deputy Commissioner for the exemption. The Deputy Commissioner will take a decision on the same. The exemption is not applicable to those who are having criminal antecedents. There are about 3,000 gun and revolver licence holders in the district, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/220-gram-panchayats-to-go-to-the-polls-in-dk-in-two-phases/article33275507.ece
08 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Spiralling oil price to impact State badly||The hike in price of petrol and high-speed diesel by oil majors is to affect Kerala badly as travel will turn dearer for citizens and commodity prices will shoot up with the freight charges set to go up. Petrol and high-speed diesel prices, which have been rising for the last six days, are now at the highest level since September 2018. In the last 17 days, the price of petrol has gone up by Rs. 2.35 per litre while high-speed diesel rate has increased by Rs. 3.15 per litre. After Monday’s increase in the prices, a litre of petrol in the capital costs Rs. 85.72 and a litre of high-speed diesel, Rs. 79.65. The price has crossed Rs. 85 per litre in most cities such as Kolkata, Chennai, Bengaluru, Hyderabad, and Patna. The price of petrol has crossed Rs. 90 per litre already in Jaipur and Delhi. In Mumbai, Jaipur, Hyderabad, and Bhubaneshwar, diesel rates crossed Rs. 80 per litre on Monday. Current practice Oil retailers say the current practice of increasing the price by 20 to 30 paise per litre that started after the recent Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation elections would continue in the coming days. The sharp rise in fuel prices, triggered by an increase in global crude oil price, has come at a time when the country is slowly emerging from the COVID-19-induced lockdown and aiming for economic recovery. Being a consumer State, the fuel price increase, especially of high-speed diesel, will have a debilitating effect on Kerala.  Upsetting budgets Already, the price of domestic LPG cylinder was increased by Rs. 50 last week and this will badly affect the monthly budget of hundreds of homes. The price hike has come when the patronage of the public transport system was picking up and the petrol retail outlets turning live again with the entry of more private vehicles. Taxies, autorickshaws, and private bus operators will soon demand for an increase in the fares in view of the fuel price hike.  ‘Helping corporates’ Lawerence Babu, general secretary, Kerala State Private Bus Operators Federation, said it was a big blow to the industry that was slowly recovering from the pandemic. “The move is to help the corporates and to wipe out the public transport sector,” he said. The management of the Kerala State Road Transport Corporation is shocked by the fuel price hike as it was trying to emerge from the red through a host of measures to generate more revenue. “We are affected. The fleet uses 1.75 lakh litres of high-speed diesel daily now and one can think of the additional burden we have to undertake,” a top official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/spiralling-oil-price-to-impact-state-badly/article33275391.ece
08 December 2020||GUNTUR,||Getting driving licence, fitness certificate is free of hassles now||Getting a driving licence or a permit or a fitness certificate is now possible with a few clicks of the mouse at your desktop or through your smart phone. Thanks to a revolutionary digital intervention of the Transport Department, 54 services can be utilised by users without visiting the office of the Regional Transport Offices. All that one has to do is log on to https://aprtacitizen.epragathi.org, and click on the service they require. For those who find it difficult to access online services, the 54 services are made available at the ward/village secretariats. A banner displaying the services of the Transport Department at the village/ward secretariats is put up at every ward/village secretariat. The users have to go through a series of simple steps before they apply for a new driving licence or renew a driving licence. Beginning with seeding of Aadhar card with the driving licence of the motorists ,checking the availability of DL/Learning License and finally applying for DL/LLR, all these steps are simple and can be done from their workplace or home. Online registration “We have been providing the benefits of online registration or application of learning/driving licence for some years, and have now made it more easy for any one even outside the State to apply for renewal of driving licence. They do not have to come to our offices for any thing. The Transport Department has moved to a transparent and efficient service delivery system,” said Deputy Transport Commissioner, Guntur, E. Meera Prasad. Except for transport licence, applicants for the non-transport licences, under the age of 50 years do not require a medical certificate. However, those applicants who are over 50 years of age must produce a medical certificate. All applicants for Transport Vehicle Licence must produce a medical certificate, irrespective of their age, he said. Computerised test After the slot taking, an LLR test is fixed, applicants have to appear for a computerised LLR test regarding basic traffic signs and driver’s responsibilities. Licence to drive a non-transport vehicle is valid for 20 years from the date of issue or until the holder attains the age of 50 years, whichever is earlier, said the Deputy Transport Commissioner. After that the licence is renewed every five years. Transport Vehicle Licence is valid for a period of three years from the date of issue or renewal, the officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/getting-driving-licence-fitness-certificate-is-free-of-hassles-now/article33275575.ece
08 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC nod for Central Vista inauguration||The Supreme Court on Monday allowed the foundation stone laying ceremony of a new parliament building to go ahead as scheduled on December 10 after the government gave an undertaking to keep in abeyance the construction or demolition of buildings and the shifting of trees in the Central Vista area for now. Questions on legality A Bench, led by Justice A.M. Khanwilkar, expressed displeasure with the government for “aggressively” continuing with the construction, demolition and shifting of trees even as questions concerning the legality of the Central Vista project were in court. “We thought we are dealing with a prudent litigant and deference will be shown... We have shown deference to you and expected that you will act in a prudent manner. The same deference should be shown to the court and there should be no demolition or construction,” Justice Khanwilkar addressed Solicitor General Tushar Mehta. Mr. Mehta, after receiving instructions from the government, apologised to the court and gave an undertaking that no physical changes would be made to the area. “I can make a statement that there will be no construction, demolition or felling of trees. Foundation stone will be laid. But no physical change,” he stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sc-allows-foundation-laying-of-new-parliament-building/article33275023.ece
08 December 2020||Staff Reporter Mumbai,||NCP, BJP trade charges over Pawar’s stand on farm laws||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) on Monday traded allegations over the Centre’s new farm laws after the former claimed that NCP president Sharad Pawar had supported the entry of private companies in the Agriculture Produce Market Committees (APMC). The BJP, according to NCP, has been circulating letters, reportedly written by Mr. Pawar, in his capacity as Union Agriculture Minister during the United Progressive Alliance government led by Manmohan Singh, to attack the NCP president whose party has opposed the farm laws and backed the ongoing agitation by farmers. The NCP, on its part, discarded the claim saying Mr. Pawar had contacted States about implementation of model APMC Act brought in by the Vajpayee-led government and it had not challenged MSPs to farmers. It said the letters are being randomly circulated to “confuse” the people. Mahesh Tapase, chief spokesperson of the NCP, said, “The model APMC Act, 2003, was introduced by the Vajpayee government. However, many State governments were reluctant to implement it at that point of time. Mr. Pawar, after assuming charge in 2004, tried to form a broader consensus amongst State Agriculture Marketing Boards by inviting suggestions for the implementation of the said Act.” Minority Affairs Minister Nawab Malik said that selective two pages from the 165-page letter are being circulated by the BJP to create misinformation. “Mr. Pawar never talked about discarding MSP system. What the government is doing today is destruction of farmers’ rights,” said Mr. Malik, adding that mere verbal guarantee of MSP will not work and the Centre must ensure that in the law. ‘Political opportunism’ Meanwhile, BJP leader and former Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis claimed that anti-social elements are trying to create anarchy through the farmers’ agitation. “When the Congress-NCP was in power in Maharashtra, it had brought in law for private APMCs. It neither snatched lands from farmers nor was any APMC closed down. Support to the farmers’ agitation is nothing but to score political points,” said Mr Fadnavis. “We are confident that farmers will not fall prey to the mis-information campaign by the opposition parties. The Congress promised changes in APMC, so did NCP. Akali Dal was part of the cabinet when farm laws were passed and they did not oppose it. This is nothing but political opportunism,” said Mr. Fadnavis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ncp-bjp-trade-charges-over-pawars-stand-on-farm-laws/article33275530.ece
08 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Up to Centre what happens next: farmers||Elaborate traffic and security arrangements have been put in place across the national capital ahead of the Bharat Bandh on Tuesday, with Delhi Police warning of strict action against those who attempt to disrupt normalcy. The agitating farmers are finalising their plans as well; either to move away from the Capital in case the Central government accepts their demands and decides to repeal the three controversial farm laws, or make their way towards central Delhi if it refuses to accede. While essential services are unlikely to be disrupted, some transport services and sale of fruits and vegetables may be affected due to the bandh as several transport associations as well as traders’ outfits at mandis are supporting the bandh call. “Anybody who tries to disrupt normal movement/life or forcibly closes shops will be strongly dealt with, as per law. Delhi Police appeals to everybody not to disrupt life of common citizens and residents of Delhi,” said the Delhi Police spokesperson. Sources said maximum police force will be deployed on Tuesday along with paramilitary personnel. A senior police officer said that officials will be deployed at Delhi’s borders, Jantar Mantar, Ramlila Maidan, Krishi Bhavan and other key areas. ‘Nothing will stop us’ Protesting farmers at the Singhu border said it was up to the government whether they went back home or risked clashes with security personnel as they marched towards the Delhi border to lay siege to Parliament. Neither smoke bombs nor bullets will be able to stop us, the farmers said, adding that there were “many others” waiting to join them if talks broke down. “Our patience has been tested enough. Since they cannot hear what we really have to say here from the border, we will sit at Jantar Mantar and block New Delhi from within so they can hear us better,” said Satnam Gill, who came from Malerkotla. The Aam Aadmi Party has said it will protest at ITO intersection at 11 a.m. on Tuesday in support of the bandh. The Delhi Congress has said it plans to “gherao” the BJP’s headquarters. While Delhi Police has issued a traffic advisory for smooth movement of vehicles and commuters, Haryana Police has said there could be some disruptions at the toll plazas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/up-to-centre-what-happens-next-farmers/article33275198.ece
08 December 2020||Bengaluru,||Cabinet approves New Education Policy||Based on the recommendations of the task force of the State, the Cabinet has approved implementation of the New Education Policy notified by the Union government. Approving one of the major projects of the State, the Cabinet that met on Monday approved the revised detailed project report of the Upper Bhadra Project amounting to Rs. 21,473 crore. The Cabinet has reportedly rejected granting permission to carrying out mining and transportation activities round the clock in respect of major minerals in the State. To sub-committees The Cabinet decided to refer three private university bills - New Horizon University Bill, 2020, The Atria University Bill, 2020, and The Acharya University Bill, 2020, for its sub-committee for a detailed study. However, it approved the University of Horticultural Sciences (Amendment) Bill, 2020, and the Protection of Interest of Depositors in Financial Establishment Bill, 2020, to safeguard the interests of depositors, particularly in private limited banks. Both Bills would be tabled in the ongoing winter session of the State legislature. It approved the Karnataka State Mental Health Rules, 2020, and the Karnataka Education Department Services (Department of Public Instructions (Recruitment) (Amendment), Rules, 2020, sources said. A meeting, presided over by Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, has approved the establishment of Centre for Internet Ethical Things in collaboration with International Institute of Information Technology (IITB) Bengaluru and World Economic Forum. The Cabinet reportedly granted three acres of gomala land for agricultural purposes to Nadoja Salumarada Thimmakka at Madigondanahalli village in Kuduru hobli, Magadi taluk, Ramanagaram district. It also approved appointment of PPP concessionaires to implement the energy efficiency projects in streetlights in all urban local bodies and city corporations of the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cabinet-approves-new-education-policy/article33275314.ece
08 December 2020||HYDERABAD,||Crowds throng Mee Seva centres for flood relief||Monday morning witnessed a repeat of the scenes before and immediately after the election notification for the GHMC polls, when people began gathering near Mee Seva centres in expectation of flood relief amount. Serpentine queues were noticed at several Mee Seva Centres in the city, with residents of the respective localities arriving there with Aadhaar and ration cards. People waited in large groups as early as 8 a.m., even before the centres opened for the days’ business, eye witnesses informed. A large majority of them were women, who squatted on the road waiting for the staff to arrive, resulting in traffic issues. Police had to intervene and regulate the crowds. Several Mee Seva centres in Alwal, Jagadgirigutta and other locations saw the rush. People began to trickle in other locations too, forcing the centres to shut the shop even before they were opened. Police were deployed to disperse the crowds in locations such as East Marredpally, in anticipation of trouble. At about 9.30 a.m., GHMC Commissioner D.S.Lokesh Kumar issued a statement, asking the flood victims not to come to the Mee Seva Centres for the relief amount. GHMC teams are collecting the details from the field, and once their details and Aadhaar numbers are verified, the amount will be directly remitted into their respective accounts, the statement said. This was followed by another express circular from the Information Technology, Electronics & Communications department, ordering closure of the Mee Seva Centres for the day, in order to avoid untoward incidents. It is not clearly known who spread the misinformation about flood relief distribution resuming from Monday onwards. Sources attribute it to promises by the political leaders during elections, that the relief distribution would continue after the model code of conduct for elections ceases to exist. The relief amount of Rs. 10,000 announced for every household impacted by the floods was initially disbursed in cash by the GHMC & Revenue officials who went from door to door distributing it. The whole distribution was mired in controversy, with allegations that the truly deserving had not got the relief while those who were unaffected by the floods reaped the benefit. Later, just before the election notification, the distribution shifted to online through Mee Seva centres, where the relief was directly deposited into accounts, immediately after the Aadhaar & ration cards verification. Huge throngs gathered at the Mee Seva centres then too, with people choosing to spend night on the road till the centres opened next day, instead of going home. The distribution was halted after the State Election Commission issued orders terming it as against the election code.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/crowds-throng-mee-seva-centres-for-flood-relief/article33275361.ece
08 December 2020||CHENNAI,||Third phase of Covaxin trial begins at SRM Medical College||After completion of two phases of human trials, the third phase trial of Covaxin — one of the COVID-19 vaccine candidates — was launched at SRM Medical College Hospital and Research Centre, Kattankulathur, on Monday. P. Sathyanarayanan, pro-Chancellor (Academics) of the institute, said over 1,000 persons would be part of the final phase of trials. “Until now, we have received 500 volunteers. We will be taking in more volunteers till the end of December,” he said, according to a press release. Any person above 18 years of age and has not tested COVID-19 positive in the past can participate as a volunteer in the trial, excluding pregnant women. The vaccine shot would be administered twice — 28 days apart, Satyajit Mahopatra, principal investigator for the trial, said. The hospital would be able to conduct the trial for 50 persons a day. The first phase of the human trials began with 30 volunteers at the institute in July. The second phase was launched in August in which 45 volunteers participated. In the two phases, the safety of the vaccine was ascertained. None of the volunteers suffered any serious reactions except for mild fever and body ache, the release said. The third phase of the trial was to assess the efficacy of the vaccine in inducing immunogenicity in the volunteer, according to A. Ravi Kumar, pro Vice-Chancellor (Medical and Health Sciences). Indian Council of Medical Research is collaborating with Bharat Biotech, Hyderabad, in the development of Covaxin. SRM Medical College Hospital and Research Centre was the only private medical college hospital in the State to be selected to carry out all three phases of the trial. The Drug Controller General of India had given the nod for the human trials. Persons who wish to volunteer for the clinical trial can call phone numbers - 7598951868, 7358026002, 044-47432341 or email to srm.covaxin2020 @gmail.com, the release said. Among others, A. Sundaram, dean of the institute, K. Thangaraj, medical superintendent and R. Balamurugan, deputy medical superintendent, were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/third-phase-of-covaxin-trial-begins-at-srm-hospital/article33275138.ece
08 December 2020||PUDUCHERRY,||Central team tours Cyclone Nivar-hit areas in Puducherry||An inter-ministerial team deputed by the Central government to assess damage to crops and property due to Cyclone Nivar visited several parts of Puducherry on Monday. The four-member team, led by Joint Secretary Ashutosh Agnihotri, visited fields at Pathu Kannu, Ramanathapuram and Santhaipudukuppam for a first-hand assessment of damage to paddy, banana, sugarcane and other cash crops. Farmers, at the first stop-over in Ramanathapuram, complained about the damage to banana, sugarcane and paddy crops due to heavy rain accompanied by strong winds of Cyclone Nivar and the latest depression in the Bay of Bengal. The team inspected Sudana Nagar to see the condition of damaged municipality roads in residential areas. They also visited the Thengaithittu fishing harbour to assess the damage to boats. After the tour, the team held separate meetings with Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi and Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy. The team also held a high-level meeting chaired by Chief Secretary Ashwani Kumar. Fund for civil works During her meeting, Ms. Bedi requested the team to submit their recommendation to Centre at the earliest so that U.T. administration could avail the financial assistance and carry out repair works. She also suggested a specific fund for civil works to avoid inundation in low-lying areas in future. Mr. Narayanasamy, in his meeting with Central team, reiterated the demand for an interim relief of Rs. 100 crore as Nivar relief. The situation had changed after Nivar made its landfall. There had also been heavy rain due to Cyclone Burevi over the Gulf of Mannar. The Centre’s relief package had to consider that the unprecedented rainfall the region recorded after Nivar cyclone made the landfall. There has been damage to crops, roads, property and fishing equipment, the Chief Minister said. Permanent solution He also appealed to the Central team to recommend a financial assistance for finding a permanent solution for flooding during monsoon. The assistance would be used to widen the canals and shelter homes in the coastal areas. Meanwhile, an AIADMK delegation led by party secretary (West) Om Sakthi Segar submitted a memorandum to the team demanding Rs. 1 lakh per hectare for paddy farmers, Rs. 2 lakh per hectare for banana cultivators and Rs. 50,000 for vegetable farmers to compensate the loss. Cyclone Nivar had caused loss to the tune of Rs. 300 crore in U.T., the memorandum said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/central-team-tours-nivar-hit-areas-in-ut/article33275169.ece
08 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Five terror suspects from Kashmir, Punjab held in Delhi||Five terrorists — two from Punjab and three from Kashmir — have been arrested from east Delhi, the police said on Monday. The arrests exposed a nexus between Pakistan’s ISI and Khalistan radicals, the police claimed. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Special Cell) Pramod Singh Kushwah said the accused had been identified as Gurjit Singh and Sukhdeep Singh alias Bhura, sharpshooters of wanted gangster Sukhmeet Pal Singh alias Sukh Bhikhariwal who allegedly contracted the killing of Shaurya Chakra recipient Balwinder Singh Sandhu. The three natives of Kashmir have been identified as Shabir Ahmad Gojree, Mohammed Ayub Pathan, and Riyaz Rather, who allegedly have links with the Hizb-ul-Mujahideen. The police said the five were held after an exchange of fire in the Shakarpur area. Three sophisticated pistols were recovered from them. Heroin worth Rs. 8 crore, currency worth Rs. 1 lakh and two cars were also seized from them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/five-terror-suspects-from-kashmir-punjab-held-in-delhi/article33275027.ece
08 December 2020||MANGALURU,||Pejawar seer calls on T.N. Governor||The seer of Udupi Pejawar Mutt Vishwaprasanna Tirtha, who is on a tour of Tamil Nadu, met Tamil Nadu Governor Banwarilal Purohit in Chennai on Monday. The swami, who is the trustee of Sri Ram Mandir Tirtha Kshetra Trust and also the only one from South India, held discussions with him on the construction of Ram Temple in Ayodhya. He sought cooperation and participation of people of Tamil Nadu in this project, mutt sources said. The autonomous 15-member trust will oversee the construction of the temple. Written appeal The seer, who presented a written appeal to the Governor in this regard, also invited him to come to Udupi at his convenience. The Governor who received the seer at the Raj Bhavan with honour and also felicitated him expressed happiness that the seer was shouldering the onerous responsibilities of the mutt at a young age. The swami presented a shawl and an idol of Udupi Sri Krishna to the Governor. Su Srinivasan, president of Vishwa Hindu Parishad, Tamil Nadu, was present on the occasion. The seer announced in Mangaluru recently that the trust will launch a 45-day drive across the country from January 15, 2021, to raise funds from the common people for the construction of the temple. Volunteers will visit the doorsteps of people to collect funds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/pejawar-seer-calls-on-tn-governor/article33275508.ece
08 December 2020||MYSURU,||Cyclone effect: Rains across Bandipur, M.M. Hills bring relief||The wet weather conditions due to depression and cyclone in the Bay of Bengal has resulted in light to moderate rains across Bandipur National Park, BRT Tiger Reserve, and M.M. Hills Wildlife Sanctuary. This has increased the moisture content in the forests and is expected to delay the onset of fire season. S.R. Natesh, Director, Bandipur Tiger Reserve, told The Hindu that rainfall was not intense but there was continuous drizzle since the last few days which had helped increase the moisture content in the forest and would enable the growth of fresh vegetation. The rains were also widespread across the forest regions, covering all the ranges of the tiger reserve, and had helped replenish water holes significantly so as to help wild animals beat water stress during peak summer. But the intensity of heat would increase by January third week and last through summer and it was critical for Bandipur to receive a few unseasonal rains in January or February if the threat of forest fire was to be fully neutralised this season, Mr. Natesh added. Bandipur has a history of devastating fire engulfing vast swathes of forest cover, the last being in 2019 when more than 15,000 acres of vegetation was destroyed. The authorities have already taken up controlled burning of vegetation along the fire lines which will act as a fire-break and reduce fuel build-up. Bandipur has fire lines extending to nearly 2,828 km, of which 80 per cent of the vegetation has been cleared. The authorities hope to complete the entire work, including controlled burning of vegetation, by the end of December. The scenario is similar in M.M. Hills Wildlife Sanctuary and BRT Tiger Reserve as well, all of which are contiguous forests. Deputy Conservator of Forests of M.M. Hills V. Yedukondalu said intermittent rains and drizzle in the hilly terrain had brought much-needed relief and will help reduce the threat of forest fire. He said though animals in M.M. Hills Wildlife Sanctuary had perennial water source in the Cauvery and other rivulets which cut across the forest land, the vegetation tended to get dry as early as in December. “There was a major forest fire in the peak of winter (on December 27) in 2018 and the cyclonic affect this year has helped ward off such early onset of fires,” said Mr. Yedukondalu. The wildlife sanctuary has a fire line extending to nearly 400 km and vegetation has been cleared along nearly 300 km length so far. But the authorities are perturbed over financial crunch plaguing the government as a result of which there is a fund crunch and hence only 50 per cent of the money budgeted for fire mitigatory measures has been released. “We have funds for only clearing 2,400 km of fire line but we have placed a request and in anticipation of release of full amount we are taking up the remaining portion of the fire line work as well,” Mr. Natesh added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cyclone-effect-rains-across-bandipur-mm-hills-bring-relief/article33275316.ece
08 December 2020||HYDERABAD,||TRS ministers to participate in Bharat Bandh||The ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) has resolved to make Bharat Bandh successful in the State on Tuesday, although it is planned to be organised only for four hours from 11 a.m .to 3 p.m., not only to register its opposition to the three new farm legislations but also to prove a political point or two. Although political parties including Congress, CPI, CPI (M) and others along with several employees’ and farmers’ associations are supporting the protest, the TRS leadership has directed all its ministers and other key functionaries to participate in the bandh directly by participating in the demonstrations on highways and other key locations. On its part, the Congress has given call to its rank and file participate in the bandh across the State. Accordingly, all key leaders of the party have decided to stage protests. Due to the bandh call of farmers’ organisations, Osmania University and JNTU-H have postponed the examinations scheduled for December 8. They would be held later. To make the bandh impactful, the ruling party has already asked the traders to open their establishments two hours late on Tuesday. TSRTC was asked not to operate its services till afternoon. Working president of TRS and Minister for IT and Industries K.T. Rama Rao along with senior party leaders will participate in the bandh at Burgula Gate near Shadnagar on the Bengaluru highway. Similarly, Minister for Health Eatala Rajender will participated in the bandh at Huzurabad, T. Harish Rao at Toopran Y-Junction, S. Niranjan Reddy at Alampur toll plaza, E. Dayakar Rao at Madikonda and Satyavathi Rathd at Mahabubabad. Other Ministers too would participate in the bandh at different places. Congress leader T. Jayaprakash Reddy said he would participate in the bandh at Sangareddy, while other leaders would participate at different places. All legislators, MPs, Zilla Parishad Chairpersons from TRS will also participate in their areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ministers-to-participate-in-bandh/article33275337.ece
08 December 2020||MADURAI,||HC seeks data on State police force||A retired policeman moved the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Monday seeking a direction to the State government to increase the strength of the police force, fill vacancies and pay better salaries to the men in uniform. In his Public Interest Litigation petition, A. Masilamani from Karur, who has served in the force for 35 years, complained that though he had the satisfaction of having served the people, it was marred by agony and stress due to health, emotional and financial issues. He said there was no association in the police force like government teachers’, engineers’ or doctors’ associations that raised voice for their welfare. He further complained that there were a number of vacancies in the posts of Sub-Inspectors and Constables, and added that the police force was poorly paid. For the amount of work extracted from them, police personnel in Tamil Nadu received the lowest salary in south India, he said. A Division Bench of Justices N. Kirubakaran and B. Pugalendhi took cognisance of the submission and put forth a series of queries to the State, covering various aspects, including the salaries of police personnel. The court also sought to know the problems that the police personnel were facing as a result of a rigorous work schedule, the mechanism adopted to address their grievances and their time-bound promotions. Further, the court asked the State to respond to queries on the benefits, insurance cover and holiday provided to police personnel, and if they could avail themselves of leave to attend important functions and events. The data on the number of policemen who killed themselves due to stress-related issues, those facing departmental proceedings and the number of vacancies were also sought by the court, which adjourned the case till December 17.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hc-madurai-bench-asks-for-data-on-state-police-force/article33275165.ece
08 December 2020||CHENNAI,||Kulasekaran to head panel for caste survey||Retired High Court judge A. Kulasekaran will lead the Commission which was announced by Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami to conduct a survey for collecting caste-wise data in the State. In a statement, Mr. Palaniswami said the Commission would start functioning soon. The Chief Minister’s announcement on December 1 came a few hours after a delegation of PMK leaders, led by former Union Minister Anbumani Ramadoss, met him at the Secretariat. According to the CM, the proposed Commission would examine the methodologies being adopted for collecting caste-wise data, and based on that, it would conduct a survey to collect such data and submit a report to the government. PMK agitation It was on the same morning that the PMK launched an agitation for 20% reservation for Vanniyars in government jobs and higher education.  The CM’s announcement came a few hours after a delegation of PMK leaders, led by former Union Minister Anbumani Ramadoss, met him||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/panel-on-caste-survey-gets-a-head/article33275116.ece
08 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Govt. extends support to farmers’ agitation||Expressing solidarity with the farmers who called for a nationwide bandh on December 8 in protest against the farm laws, Agriculture Minister K. Kannababu said the agitators should consider ending the protest by 1 p.m. so that the people would not be inconvenienced. The Minister said that instructions were issued to open the State government offices at that time and the RTC was asked to suspend its services till 1 p.m. All educational institutions were ordered to be shut for the day. He appealed to the farmers to stage demonstrations in a peaceful manner and hoped that the negotiations with the Centrae would yield the desired result. The Minister said in a press release that the YSR Congress Party extended conditional support to the farm Bills after an assurance was given to ensure MSP to farmers, whereas the TDP had endorsed the laws without pondering over its consequences. Meanwhile, taking a U-turn, Telugu Desam Party (TDP) national president N. Chandrababu Naidu asked his party leaders to submit representations to the Collectors on December 8 against the Bills. “The State government wishes that the Centre concedes the farmers' demands by realising the impact of the laws. We are for an amicable settlement of the issues raised by the farmers,” Mr. Kannababu added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-govt-extends-support-to-farmers-agitation/article33275015.ece
08 December 2020||ELURU (WEST GODAVARI DT.),||AIIMS team collects samples from patients in Eluru hospital||A six-member team from the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Mangalagiri, visited the Eluru Government General Hospital (GGH) on Monday and collected samples from patients suffering from an undiagnosed disease for the last three days. The team comprised Dr. Rakesh Kakkar, Medical Superintendent and Community Medicine Specialist; Dr. Vamsidhar. C, Critical Care Specialist; Dr. Rajasekhar, Critical Care Specialist; Dr. Mangayakarasi, head, Department of Microbiology; Dr. Sathyanarayin, Epidemiologist; and Dr. Vamsi Krishna Reddy, DMS & Hospital Administrator (coordination), said BJP Rajya Sabha Member G.V.L. Narasimha Rao. Experts to investigate West Godavari district Joint Collector Himanshu Shukla said teams from AIIMS, New Delhi, the National Institution of Nutrition (NIN), Hyderabad, the Indian Institute of Chemical Technology (IICT), Mumbai, the National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune, and experts from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and the World Health Organisation (WHO) would be visiting Eluru to investigate the reasons for the outbreak of the disease.  174 under treatment  Mr. Shukla said a total of 455 patients were admitted to the hospital with the mystery illness. Of them, 263 were discharged, 17 cases were referred to other hospitals and one death was reported. As many as 174 patients were undergoing treatment in hospitals, he said. Sixty-five of the patients were aged between one and 12 years, 246 were in the 12-35 age group and 144 were aged over 35. Medical camps were continuing in the affected colonies, the Joint Collector said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/aiims-team-collects-samples-in-eluru-hospital/article33274954.ece
08 December 2020||ELURU,||CM visits hospital||Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy visited the Government General Hospital (GGH) here on Monday and enquired about the condition of the patients suffering from symptoms of an undiagnosed disease. Mr. Jagan directed Ministers and officials to monitor the situation round the clock. Mr. Reddy interacted with the patients and also spoke with doctors about the treatment being given to them. The Chief Minister directed officials to ensure treatment and a supply of medicines to the discharged patients. Reviewed situation Later, Mr. Reddy reviewed the situation with Health and Revenue officials. He sought details of the number of cases reported, discharged patients, referral cases and their health condition, and the line of treatment. Deputy Chief Minister and Health Minister Alla Kali Krishna Srinivas, Transport Minister Perni Venkataramaiah, Women Development and Child Welfare Minister Taneti Vanitha, Collector Revu Mutyala Raju, Health and Family Welfare Commissioner Katamneni Bhaskar, Joint Collector Himanshu Shukla and other officials were also present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/andhra-pradesh-cm-visits-hospital-meets-patients/article33274957.ece
08 December 2020||December 08 2020 00:00 IST,||BJP slams Opposition’s ‘double standards’||The BJP on Monday accused its rivals of “double standards”. A day before the Bharat Bandh, the party cited the Opposition parties’ earlier support to many provisions of the laws. Union Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad alleged that a section of farmers was caught in the grip of a few people with “vested interests”. He said the government was working to address their misgivings about the reforms.Page 9||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bjp-slams-oppn-double-standards/article33275028.ece
08 December 2020||December 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Exercising their right||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/exercising-their-right/article33275194.ece
08 December 2020||New Delhi,||New cases at three-month low in Delhi||The Capital recorded 1,674 new COVID-19 cases in the last 24 hours — the lowest number of infections since August 31, when 1,358 fresh cases were reported. The tally now stands at 5,61,732 and there are 22,486 active cases in the national capital. The death toll has reached 9,706 with 63 more fatalities reported in a single day. The test positivity rate has further slipped to 3.15%, authorities said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/new-cases-at-three-month-low-in-delhi/article33275195.ece
08 December 2020||Tirumala,||Rain triggers landslips on Tirumala ghat road||The second ghat road leading to the sacred hill abode of Lord Venkateswara experienced landslides at several places in the small hours of Monday. The town which has been recuperating from the impact of Cyclone Nivar was further pounded with heavy rain under the influence of Cyclone Burevi that followed in quick succession. Huge chunks of soil along with boulders fell on the road stretch in the 12th kilometre of the ghat road. No casualty reported There were no casualties as the ghat road normally remains closed between 12 a.m. and 3 a.m. Engineering personnel swung into action and cleared the debris. Apart from this, several instances of uprooting of trees along the second ghat road and at a couple of places in the town were also reported.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/heavy-rain-triggers-landslips-on-tirumala-ghat-road/article33274947.ece
08 December 2020||December 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Exercising their right||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/exercising-their-right/article33275030.ece
08 December 2020||Bengaluru,||Cab driver held, drugs seized||The Halasuru police on Monday arrested a taxi driver for possession of MDMA, heroin and yaba tablets, which is a synthetic mixture of methamphetamine and caffeine. The drugs, worth Rs. 28 lakh, were concealed in a teddy bear. According to the police, the accused, Zakir Khan, 38, hails from Assam. He moved to Bengaluru with his family five years ago. “He sourced drugs from his contacts in Assam and Bangladesh,” said a senior police officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/man-arrested-for-smuggling-drugs-in-teddy-bear/article33275073.ece
08 December 2020||Bengaluru,||Bharat Bandh unlikely to affect life in State||Many organisations in the State have extended their support to the ‘Bharat Bandh’ that will be observed on Tuesday, but it is unlikely that life will be affected.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bharat-bandh-unlikely-to-affect-life-in-state/article33275066.ece
08 December 2020||Bengaluru,||Parents pull students out of schools and head home||Over the last few weeks, some of the top private schools here have been receiving a flurry of transfer certificate requests from students as their parents are returning to their hometowns.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/parents-pull-students-out-of-schools-and-head-home/article33275067.ece
08 December 2020||Mumbai,||‘Jail sent back spectacles meant for Navlakha’||The Taloja Central Jail refused to accept spectacles sent for Gautam Navlakha, after the pair he was using were stolen, his partner Sahba Husain said. “He has a very high-power number, about 6.5, and is almost blind without them,” she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/jail-sent-back-spectacles-meant-for-navlakha/article33275197.ece
08 December 2020||Mangaluru,||Beary academy awards on December 10||Karnataka Beary Sahitya Academy will present its honorary awards for 2018, 2019, and 2020 at a function in Bengaluru on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/beary-academy-awards-on-december-10/article33275510.ece
08 December 2020||Mangaluru,||BJP questions absence of APMC Act in Kerala||The BJP alleged on Monday that the Left parties, which are opposing three new farm sector laws, are following double standards by not implementing APMC Act in Kerala ruled by CPI (Marxist).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bjp-questions-absence-of-apmc-act-in-kerala/article33275511.ece
08 December 2020||Pune,||Mumbai nearby||The heartening trend of recoveries exceeding fresh cases continued with as many as 7,345 patients being discharged across Maharashtra on Monday while just 3,075 COVID-19 cases were reported. The total case tally now stands at 18,55,341 with the number of active cases dipping further to 75,767. The cumulative recoveries have reached 17,30,715 with the State’s recovery rate rising incrementally to 93.28%. As many as 40 deaths were reported. The low case surge must, however, be viewed in the context of the lower number of samples tested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mumbai-nearby/article33275532.ece
08 December 2020||Srinagar,||J&K district council polls see 50% turnout||Jammu and Kashmir saw 50.08% voter turnout in the fourth phase of the maiden District Development Council polls on Monday, even as three districts in volatile south Kashmir saw single-digit polling, dipping the aggregate turnout in the Valley to just 32%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/jk-district-council-polls-see-50-turnout/article33275560.ece
08 December 2020||Kolkata,||BJP worker killed in Siliguri riot||A BJP worker died in the violence that erupted during a march of the party to the State Secretariat at Siliguri in north Bengal on Monday. The deceased, Ullen Ray (50), had multiple “pellet injuries”, doctors said. The BJP has called for a 12-hour bandh in north Bengal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bjp-worker-killed-in-siliguri-riot/article33275561.ece
08 December 2020||Mumbai,||‘Taloja jail sent back spectacles for Navlakha’||The Taloja Central Jail refused to accept spectacles sent for Gautam Navlakha, after the pair he was using were stolen, his partner Sahba Husain said. “He has a very high-power number, about 6.5, and is almost blind without them,” Ms. Husain toldThe Hindu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/taloja-jail-sent-back-spectacles-for-navlakha/article33275562.ece
08 December 2020||Bengaluru,||Resident doctors demand risk allowance, stipend||Demanding COVID-19 risk allowance, regular payment of stipend and exemption of tuition fee and complete functioning of non-COVID-19 care at BMCRI, resident (junior) doctors across the State started an indefinite protest from Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/resident-doctors-demand-risk-allowance-stipend/article33275317.ece
08 December 2020||Bengaluru,||State headed for revenue deficit in a year: Ex-CM||Claiming that the State’s financial condition had deteriorated, Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah on Monday warned that Karnataka was bound to face revenue deficit in about a year from now.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-headed-for-revenue-deficit-in-a-year-ex-cm/article33275318.ece
08 December 2020||Bengaluru,||Kumaraswamy’s poser to Siddaramaiah||Asking Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader Siddaramaiah to explain his understanding of “secularism”, former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy on Monday claimed that it was Congress party’s “misinterpretation of the idea” that had led to secularism “facing insults today”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kumaraswamys-poser-to-siddaramaiah/article33275319.ece
08 December 2020||Bengaluru,||Vidyagama: Court sets deadline for State||The Karnataka High Court has directed the State government to take a decision by December 14 on whether Vidyagama programme could be recommenced for students of rural and semi-urban areas who have no access to online education.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/vidyagama-court-sets-deadline-for-state/article33275320.ece
08 December 2020||New Delhi,||BJP slams Opposition’s ‘double standards’||On the eve of the Bharat Bandh called by the farmers and supported by most of the Opposition parties, the BJP on Monday accused its rivals of “double standards”. It cited their earlier support to many provisions of the new laws. Union Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad, addressing a press conference at the BJP’s national headquarters, alleged that a section of farmers was caught in the grip of a few people with “vested interests”. He said the government was working to address their misgivings about the reforms. Mr. Prasad read out sections from the Congress’s manifesto in the 2019 general election to note that it had promised to “repeal” the Agricultural Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) Act. He said that Rahul Gandhi had asked the Congress-ruled States in 2013 to take measures to allow farmers to sell their produce directly. Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Sharad Pawar, who was the Agriculture Minister in the UPA government, had asked the States to amend the APMC Act and even warned them that the Centre would not provide financial assistance in absence of the three reforms, Mr. Prasad said. “When the Modi government enacted these provisions, all these parties are now opposing them. This exposes their shameful double standards,” he said. Farmer unions have been protesting on Delhi’s borders for 11 days demanding the repeal of the new agri-marketing laws.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-slams-opposition-double-standards/article33274967.ece
08 December 2020||Srinagar,||J&K DDC polls see 50% turnout||Jammu and Kashmir registered a 50.08% voter turnout in the fourth phase of the maiden District Development Council (DDC) election on Monday. Three districts in the volatile south Kashmir saw single-digit polling, dipping the aggregate turnout in the Kashmir Valley to just 32%. “A total of 50.08% voter turnout was registered in the fourth phase. The Kashmir division saw a 31.95% turnout, while the Jammu division witnessed 69.31%,” State Election Commissioner K.K. Sharma said. Despite the fresh spell of rain and snowfall, people, including many women, queued up outside the polling booth early in the morning, especially in Baramulla, Bandipora and Kupwara districts of north Kashmir. Official figures suggest Baramulla saw the highest 47.43% turnout followed by Bandipora with 45.22% and Kupwara with 44.35%. “We are enthusiastic about the voting on two counts. One, it will provide a new interface to improve the governance at local levels. Two, these polls are also about making a political statement from the Kashmir Valley to the rest of the country about what people’s sentiments are,” Gaffar Malik, a voter in Kupwara, said. In contrast to north and central Kashmir, the mood among voters was subdued in the three districts of south Kashmir, which have been in the throes of militancy and protests since 2016. “Boycotting polls is also a democratic way to express our anger,” said Nazeer Joo, a resident of Shopian. Except for Anantnag, which recorded a 27.04% polling, Kulgam, Pulwama and Shopian saw single digit polling. According to the official figures, Pulwama saw 8.73%, Pulwama 6.7% and 1.96% polling. Low voting in Pulwama The Pulwama segment, where incarcerated Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) leader Waheed-ur-Rehman Parra is contesting polls, also saw a low turnout. “The sanctity of the polls have been dented by the arrest of Parra,” said Sajid Mehraj, a supporter of Parra. The Jammu region witnessed good voting. According to the SEC, Poonch saw the highest 75.42% voter turnout. “The lowest turnout in Jammu division was in Udhampur district at 59.9%,” the SEC said. Thirty-four constituencies went to the polls on Monday, 17 each in the Kashmir and the Jammu divisions. “A total of 36,4527 voters, comprising 19,5206 men and 16,9321 women, voted,” Mr. Sharma said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/jk-ddc-polls-see-50-turnout/article33274994.ece
08 December 2020||New Delhi,||Modi calls for legal reforms||India cannot build the coming century with laws of the last century, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Monday, stressing the significance of “reforms”. “For new facilities and systems, reforms are necessary,” he noted. Launching the construction of Agra Metro through videoconferencing, he said the laws that were beneficial in the last century, became a “burden” of the next century. For this reason, there must be continuous process for reforms, the Prime Minister said. People often wondered why “reforms are working better today” in comparison to the past. “The reason is simple. Earlier, reforms would take place in fragments, keeping some sectors and departments in mind. Now reforms are being brought with a thought of entirety,” he said. India was not only expanding its metro rail network but also constructing its own metro coaches and signal systems under the “Make In India” programme. It was becoming atmanirbhar (self-reliant) in metro network too, he said. The Agra Metro project comprises 2 corridors with a total length of 29.4 km and connects major tourist attractions such as the Taj Mahal, the Agra Fort and Sikandra with railway stations and bus stands, the government said . The project will benefit the 26 lakh population of Agra and also cater to more than 60 lakh tourists who visit the city every year. Its estimated cost will be Rs. 8,379.62 crore. It will be completed in 5 years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/modi-calls-for-legal-reforms/article33275008.ece
08 December 2020||December 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Convene Parliament session: Cong.||The Congress on Monday asked the Union government to not become “lobbyists” for corporates, with former party president Rahul Gandhi terming the new farm laws as “Adani-Ambani Farm Laws”. Congress’s Lok Sabha members from Punjab also staged a sit-in at Jantar Mantar, demanding an immediate session of Parliament to repeal the farm laws. Addressing a press conference at the Congress headquarters, Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar said the Narendra Modi government would be responsible if any inconvenience was caused to people because of the Bharat Bandh on Tuesday. “The Modi government is squarely responsible for the current situation and it would be responsible for any inconvenience caused to the public during the bandh tomorrow,” Mr. Jakhar said, adding that there should be a way to fix “accountability” on those who had “brought the country to this situation”. He accused the government of following the U.S. model of acting as “lobbyists” for corporates and said that the country’s food security was an integral part of national security and could not be “left at the hands of corporates”.  Sharing a video of the farmers protesting at the Singhu border, Mr. Gandhi tweeted,“The ‘Adani-Ambani Farm Laws’ have to be revoked. Nothing less is acceptable.” Congress leaders reiterated their demand for an immediate session of Parliament to repeal the three laws and discuss the matter afresh. The party’s Lok Sabha members from Punjab, including senior leaders Preneet Kaur and Manish Tewari, sat on a dharna. “It is perhaps for the first time since 1952 that the winter session has been subverted. For 12 days, farmers have been risking COVID-19 daily and braving the cold. Then there is a blanket of silence on the border row with China; the economy is officially in recession. The country needs to know but the government has undermined democracy by subverting Parliament,” Mr. Tewari said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/convene-parliament-session-cong/article33274969.ece
08 December 2020||December 08 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Relying on vaccine alone won’t do’||With health experts stating that a COVID-19 vaccine could be just around the corner, Neeraj Nischal , associate professor of Medicine, All India Institute of Medical Science (AIIMS), warns that “seeing the vaccine as a magic bullet is fraught with danger”. He explains that social vaccines and biological vaccines will have to go hand in hand in the long fight ahead.  With the vaccine expected soon, how early will it aid in life going back to normal? Seeing vaccines as a magic bullet is fraught with danger. It should be seen as the beginning of the end of the pandemic, but the journey is still long and will require efforts from all of us. Social vaccines (COVID-19 appropriate behaviour) and biological vaccines (under development) will have to go hand in hand even when vaccines come. Though vaccines are promising, the outcome isn’t going to change overnight. It will still be a long fight and people’s participation is of utmost importance. Vaccines are always tried on healthy individuals. Efficacy in the field setting is still to be seen and vaccines offer hope, but just relying on the vaccine is not advised. Almost all States in India are showing a spike-fall-spike pattern. What is our best bet to safeguard against COVID-19? Has the virus mutated? As of now there is no ‘magic drug’ that works against this virus. So our best bet to safeguard ourselves from the virus has been and will continue to be — social vaccination. COVID-19 appropriate behaviour is vital. As of now, there is no evidence of any major virus mutation. But sadly, our COVID-19 appropriate behaviour has mutated. We have lowered our guard. COVID-19 fatigue has made us careless and we are not following social barriers any more. Everyone has to pitch in and become a COVID-19 warrior once again, as they did during the early days of the pandemic. Now that we know more about the disease, what are the major complications to look out for? Complications, if any, usually set in after one week of illness. Prolonged high fever, progressive drop in saturation and breathlessness, persistent troubling cough and difficulty in speaking are some of the warning signs. Apart from these, any atypical symptoms that weren’t present at the start of the disease, like a new swelling in the leg, a new onset of severe chest pain, weakness of any part of the body, etc., warrants immediate medical attention. We are seeing post-COVID-19 lung fibrosis, persistent cough, fatigue, psychological effects like anxiety and PTSD (post traumatic stress disorder). It’s an evolving topic and we will come to know more about this in the next 2-3 months. Health infrastructure and manpower seem to be stretched beyond capacity with the now almost a year-long battle with the COVID-19 virus. How are hospitals and staff coping? These are testing times for our health infrastructure. All frontline workers should be lauded for their continued effort to reduce the burden of this nagging virus. Efforts are made to ensure that the roster for all healthcare workers is made with adequate gaps between duties, so that they get enough rest. Teamwork and coordination between different healthcare professionals, and also between non-medical helper staff and the healthcare workers, is required for smooth and efficient functioning in hospitals catering to COVID-19 patients. We try to provide psychological support to each other. The fight against this virus is far from over and we have to do our bit without getting fatigued. What are the major myths and wrong practices that we are following? Don’t follow viral messages on social media and get information only from verified sources like the Healthy Ministry or ICMR (Indian Council of Medical Research) or AIIMS websites. Myths regarding hypoxia while using a mask is one I can think of, which is totally wrong. Irrational treatment options circulating in social media are very dangerous and should not be followed. The myth that the young and healthy are totally safe from the virus is also dangerous and can have catastrophic consequences.  We have lowered our guard. COVID-19 fatigue has made us careless and we are not following social barriers any more||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/relying-on-vaccine-alone-wont-do/article33274985.ece
08 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||5 Kerala districts to vote in local body polls today||Elections for 6,910 wards of 395 local bodies in five districts – Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Pathanamthitta, Alappuzha, and Idukki – will be held on Tuesday in the first phase of the 2020 local body polls in Kerala. Polling will be held from 7 a.m. to 6 p.m. ensuring strict compliance with the COVID-19 protocols, said State Election Commissioner V. Bhaskaran on Monday. Electors who have tested positive for COVID-19 or have been recommended quarantine after 3 p.m. on Monday will be given an opportunity to cast their vote in booths once all other voters have exercised their franchise. The five districts have, in all, 88,26,873 voters, including 46,68,267 women, 41,58,395 men and 61 transgenders. The electoral rolls for the five districts include 42,530 new voters and 150 NRI voters, the commission said. In all, 24,583 candidates are in the fray. The polling stations number 11,225 with 1,697 in urban areas and 9,528 in rural areas. Thiruvananthapuram has 28,38,105 voters,including 15,07,566 women, 13,30,516 men, and 23 transgender persons. The district has 6,465 candidates in the fray and 3,281 polling stations. Kollam has 22,22,770 voters, including 11,81,231 women, 10,41,520 men, and 19 transgenders. The district has 5,723 candidates and 2,761 polling stations. Pathanamthitta has 10,78,599 voters, of whom 5,75,858 are women and 5,02,738 are men. There are also three transgender voters in the district. Pathanamthitta has, in all, 3,699 candidates. The polling stations in the district number 1,459. Alappuzha has 17,82,587 voters, including 9,43,588 women, 8,38,988 men, and 11 transgender persons. As many as 5,462 candidates are in the fray in the district, which has 2,271 polling stations. Idukki has 9,04,662 voters, including 4,60,024 women, 4,44,633 men, and five transgender persons. As many as 3,234 candidates are contesting in the district. Idukki has 1,453 polling stations. As many as 5,279 wards in 318 grama panchayats, 675 wards in 50 blocks, 107 divisions in five district panchayats, 694 wards in 20 municipalities and 155 wards in two Corporations will got to the polls on Tuesday. The commission has cancelled elections in two wards in the Panmana grama panchayat, Kollam, and one ward in the Chettikulangara panchayat, Alappuzha, following the death of three candidates. The commission has arranged webcasting from 320 sensitive booths. Holiday The commission has issued orders declaring Tuesday a holiday for employees of private establishments in the five districts so that they can vote.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/5-kerala-districts-to-vote-in-local-body-elections-today/article33274952.ece
08 December 2020||New Delhi,||Opposition parties to meet President||Scaling up their protest a day after extending support to the Bharat bandh called by the farmers’ organisations, Opposition parties on Monday said they would meet President Ram Nath Kovind and urge him to direct the government to repeal the three farm laws. Leaders of 11 parties will be meeting Mr. Kovind on Wednesday. Responding to the Opposition statement, Union Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said the UPA government had done exactly what the Modi government is doing today for reforming the existing agricultural laws. ‘BJP propaganda’ CPI (M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury dismissed Mr. Prasad’s comments as routine “BJP propaganda”. “What are they trying to prove by circulating then Agricultural Minister Sharad Pawar’s letter to the then Delhi Chief Minister? Mr. Pawar was only following the constitutional norm of consultations, which the BJP violates with impunity,” he said. The Congress, Samajwadi Party, Rashtriya Janata Dal, Aam Aadmi Party, DMK, CPI (M) and the CPI, among others have extended support to the farmers’ agitation. While the Trinamool Congress did not sign the joint statement, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamta Banerjee has reached out to the farmers. On Friday, Trinamool Rajya Sabha leader Derek O’Brien visited the Singhu border and met the protesting farmers. Bahujan Samaj Party supremo Mayawati, who had not spoken on the agitation so far, also announced her support on Monday morning. Five legislators of the BJP’s ally in Haryana, the Jannayak Janta Party (JJP), have also come out in support of the agitation, seeking early resolution of the stand-off and demanding that the three farm laws be withdrawn.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/opposition-parties-to-meet-president/article33274971.ece
08 December 2020||KOCHI,||Only organic farming allowed in Lakshadweep||With the entire Lakshadweep group of islands being declared an organic agricultural area, the island administration is eyeing an expansion of the traditional business in coconut and coconut products through value addition, better marketing, and round-the-year processing. Around 10-crore coconuts are produced on the island in 12,000 small holdings with an average size of 0.25 hectares, sources in the island administration say. The total acreage under coconut is around 2,800 hectares. The nuts are processed now mostly for oil and the islands being declared an organic agricultural area will give a big boost to their business, sources add. At the same time, there is tremendous scope for expanding the business. At present, only about three crore nuts are processed on the island and there is an excess of around seven crore nuts, which are mostly sold in mainland India. Idle for six months The coconut processing industry also works only for about six months a year when the weather is dry. The period between May and December sees the industry come to a standstill. When the industry idles, coconuts are lost. Keeping this in view, the island administration plans to introduce dryers and other machinery to utilise the nuts even during the wet months, sources add. The move is expected to increase coconut utilisation from the present level of around 50% to more than 70%. The business in coconuts and coconut products is worth around Rs. 75 crore a year now. The volume of business can easily go up to about Rs. 200 crore with measures like the ones being contemplated, sources add. The island’s coconut farmers are also expected to benefit from the Union government’s ‘One District One Product’ programme of food processing in which the entire island is being considered as a single district and coconut oil has been identified as the product. Financial support for the programme will help augment the coconut industry on the island, sources add.  Common brand name One of the key areas of attention is marketing. The restrictions on access from other parts of India prevents buyers from reaching the islands to make direct procurements. Taking this into consideration, the island administration plans to help the farmers market their products under a common brand name though an entity chosen by the administration. Ensuring the quality of the raw material through the declaration of the islands as an organic agricultural area and augmented processing facilities with value addition and marketing support will go a long way in giving a boost to the business, island administration sources say.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/only-organic-farming-allowed-in-lakshadweep/article33274946.ece
08 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Vijay’s selfie most retweeted in 2020||The tweet from actor Vijay of a selfie with fans posted in February was the most retweeted one of 2020, while cricketer Virat Kohli’s tweet announcing that his actor wife Anushka Sharma and he are expecting their first baby was the most liked tweet of the year, show trends released by Twitter. “This year has been quite unusual and unique. One of the major things we witnessed was the need to connect because we were physically distanced. Digital has become the most important way for people to express connection ... rejoicing in celebratory moments, standing up for those communities impacted by the pandemic, bonding over rediscovered shows, interests and memes,” Manish Maheshwari, managing director, Twitter India, said. In politics, Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s tweet on lighting lamps at residences was the most retweeted one; in sports, former Indian cricket captain M.S. Dhoni’s tweet expressing gratitude for a letter of appreciation by Mr. Modi was the most retweeted. IPL2020 and Dil Bechara were the top sports and movie hashtags, while ‘Binod’ became the most tweeted about meme during the year. Unsurprisingly, COVID-19 topped the list of topics in current affairs that Indians had most conversations about. This was followed by late actor Sushant Singh Rajput and the Hathras murder and alleged gangrape. “In India, this year we played a very important role in three categories — informing, connecting and entertaining. Twitter became the service through which people got to know about how things are evolving, and COVID-19 became the most used hashtag on the service. Within COVID-19, there were a range of hashtags around janta curfew, wearing masks, etc.,” Mr. Maheshwari said. He added that Twitter looked at about a million tweets from 22 cities over 100 days to understand what were the “top feelings” that people were talking about last year and compared that to this year. “What emerged was that people find joy in every day things... Ludhiana as a city topped the conversation in the area of romance. The other one is Raipur — people there talk a lot about animals. In Bhubaneswar, conversations were [on] family and Mumbai topped the conversation on nostalgia.” Mr. Maheshwari said that there was also a rise in conversations and tweets on various interests and hobbies, such as baking, photography, yoga, fitness and poetry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/vijays-selfie-most-retweeted-in-2020/article33275014.ece
08 December 2020||GURUGRAM,||More sportspersons bat for farmers||A day after Haryana Olympic medallist Vijender Singh announced that he would return the Rajiv Gandhi Khel Ratna Award in protest against the three farm laws and support the farmers’ agitation, more sportspersons across the State came out in support on Monday. The athletes and players across the spectrum posted videos and messages from their Twitter handles seeking early resolution of the stand-off between the farmers and the government. Hockey player Poonam Rani, who was part of the Rio 2016 hockey team, posted a video on Twitter appealing to all sportspersons and celebrities to support the farmers and called on the government to give farmers their due. She said she herself was a farmer’s daughter and understood their pain. ‘I am with farmers’ Bajrang Punia, a wrestler from Haryana’s Jhajjar, shared a picture on Twitter proclaiming “I Am With Farmers”. He also posted a message saying farmers were forced to sit on the roads because of the government’s adamant attitude. He said every citizen of the country supported the farmers’ movement. Mr. Punia has won medals at several international events including the World Wresting Championship. Vinesh Phogat, a woman wrestler, also expressed support for the farmers’ movement with a couplet meaning that the farmer was tired of seeking his right and now wanted a solution. She said that the farmers were only seeking their due. Ms. Phogat is the first Indian woman wrestler to win gold in both Commonwealth and Asian Games and comes from a successful family of wrestlers, with her cousins Geeta Phogat and Babita Phogat being international wrestlers and Commonwealth Games medalists as well. Mr. Singh, who reached the Singhu border to extend support to the ongoing farmers’ agitation on Sunday, had said that if the government did not take back the three laws, he would return his award. Noted Punjabi poet Surjit Patar has announced that he would return his Padma Shri in protest over farm bills.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/more-sportspersons-bat-for-farmers/article33274980.ece
08 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||After SII, Bharat Biotech seeks DCGI approval||After pharma majors Pfizer and Serum Institute of India (SII), Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech International Ltd on Monday sought emergency use authorisation from the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) for its COVID-19 vaccine, Covaxin. The vaccine is being developed with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), and is undergoing phase-3 trials in over 25 centres across India. “Bharat Biotech today (on Monday) applied for the restricted emergency use of their vaccine. The SEC (Subject Expert Committee) may look at the proposal this week itself along with applications from Serum and Pfizer, and a decision on this will be taken in two weeks,” confirmed a senior official. Earlier in the day SII CEO Adar Poonawalla tweeted stating: “As promised, before the end of 2020, SII has applied for emergency use authorisation for the first made-in-India vaccine, Covishield.” The Pune-based vaccine manufacturer has collaborated with Oxford University and pharmaceutical giant AstraZeneca for making the vaccine and its trials at select sites. SII has now sought emergency use authorisation, citing unmet medical needs due to the pandemic and in the interest of the public at large. A senior Health Ministry official told The Hindu that Covishield, is logistically more feasible for use and distribution in India as it stores well at 2-8 degrees Celsius. The ICMR said the SII has already manufactured 40 million doses under the at-risk manufacturing and stockpiling licence it obtained from the DCGI. Replying to a query on whether efficacy figure of SII vaccine trials on Indian volunteers is available, head of the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration V.K. Paul said “he had not seen the data.” Meanwhile, Mr. Poonawala in another tweet said, “This will save countless lives and I thank the Government of India and Sri @narendramodi ji for their invaluable support.” The SII which is the world's largest vaccine producer by volume, has become the second company to apply for the emergency authorisation after Pfizer, India. Pfizer India had applied for emergency-use authorisation for its COVID-19 vaccine, after the company's parent received clearance for the treatment from Britain and Bahrain.  SII had earlier indicated that the Central government may purchase 300-400 million doses by July 2021 and that it was planning to deliver 100 million doses per month by February.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/after-sii-bharat-biotech-seeks-dcgi-approval/article33274989.ece
08 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Ministry hopes for a quick decision on new Parliament||The construction of a new Parliament building, set to start this month, was dedicated to 135 crore Indians and the deadline for completing the project in the 75th year of Independence, 2022, should be met, the top Union Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs (MoHUA) official said on Monday. However, the Supreme Court expressed displeasure at the government going ahead with its Central Vista redevelopment project, including construction of the new Parliament, while legal challenges to various aspects of the approvals process were yet to be decided. The government on Monday gave an undertaking to the court that it would not carry out any construction, demolition or transplantation of trees till the Court gives its verdict. MoHUA Secretary Durga Shanker Mishra told The Hindu that the government’s stand was represented in detail by the Solicitor-General and he was “hopeful of a decision soon”. He said the court had allowed the Ministry to go ahead with the scheduled ceremony of laying the foundation stone for the new Parliament by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday. Mr. Mishra said all the processes regarding clearances had been followed. “The new Parliament is being constructed for 135 crore Indians and not for any individual. It is as per the future needs. The deadline of completion, by October 2022, is to mark the 75th year of Independence and should be followed,” he said. As a part of the Central Vista redevelopment project, the government has proposed construction of a new building adjacent to the British-era Parliament House. The project is estimated to cost Rs. 971 crore and will be carried out by the Central Public Works Department’s contractor, Tata Projects Ltd., and has been designed by Ahmedabad-based HCP Design, Planning and Management.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ministry-hopes-for-a-quick-decision-on-new-parliament/article33275004.ece
08 December 2020||Srinagar,||PoK sisters, who crossed over to India, return with gifts||The Indian Army on Monday handed over two girls from Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK), who inadvertently crossed into Poonch on Sunday following a tiff with their family, to the Pakistan Army. Scores of netizens from across the LoC expressed gratitude for the Indian gesture. “The girls, who had inadvertently crossed into Indian side in Poonch in the morning hours on December 6, were repatriated from the Chakan Da Bagh crossing point on Monday,” defence spokesman Lt. Col. Devender Anand said. The two carried gifts as they were dropped at the Zero Point and allowed to head home. The two sisters identified as Laiba Zabair, 17, and Sana Zabair, 13, were from Abbasspur village, Kahuta, near the LoC on the other side. ‘We were treated well’ “We strayed into this side of the LoC. We thought we would be beaten up or tortured. However, we were treated well and were provided with food. We never thought we would go back so early. We are so impressed by the gesture,” Ms. Zabair said, just before stepping into PoK territory. Scores of netizens from PoK took to social media, especially Facebook and Twitter in the past 24 hours, appealing to the Indian authorities to release the girls. “They crossed the ceasefire line mistakenly. We appeal to the Indian authorities to release them,” Ijaz Malik, a PoK resident, tweeted. The release, despite frequent shelling and deaths on both sides of the LoC in the Poonch sector, was welcomed by netizens on both sides.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pok-sisters-who-crossed-over-to-india-return-with-gifts/article33274996.ece
08 December 2020||Hyderabad,||Rythu Bandhu to be credited into accounts from Dec. 27||The State government has finally resolved to distribute the Yasangi (Rabi season) instalment of Rs. 5,000 an acre investment support to farmers under the Rythu Bandhu scheme from December 27 ending the suspense over the release of funds for the scheme. The government has directed the Finance Department to release Rs. 7,300 crore for crediting the assured investment support into the accounts of over 59 lakh farmers. Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has directed the officials concerned to ensure that no eligible farmer is left out of the scheme. Investment support to all farmers Investment support should be extended to all farmers irrespective of the size of their holdings and the assured sum should be credited to the respective accounts within 10 days, up to January 7. The Chief Minister announced the decision to this effect at a high-level meeting of Finance and Agriculture departments officials on Monday afternoon. Action plan finalised The meeting discussed about the modalities that should be followed during the distribution of the financial support and finalised an action plan in this regard. The announcement came as a major relief to scores of farmers as the season for Rabi cropping had already started. The government had credited the Kharif instalment of Rythu Bandhu into the accounts of 59.3 lakh farmers in June second week following the instructions of the Chief Minister. Farmers were assured at that time that the Yasangi instalment of Rythu Bandhu would be credited into their accounts around Diwali. The process was delayed on account of Dubbak bypoll and other administrative reasons. Moreover, the government had to mobilise resources required for the scheme through open market borrowings and other instruments abiding by the FRBM (Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management Act) norms. Accordingly, the government has mobilised State development loan amounting to Rs. ,500 crore since last month while it is likely to utilise the close to Rs. 2,400 crore that would be released by the Centre following the acceptance of Option 1 offered under Atma Nirbhar Abhiyan package. The State has been assured Rs. 2,380 crore through special borrowing window and also permission to raise an additional Rs. 5,017 crore through borrowings following its decision to accept Option-1 of the package announced by the Centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rythu-bandhu-to-be-credited-into-accounts-from-dec-27/article33275372.ece
08 December 2020||CHANDIGARH,||‘PM should show magnanimity’||Five-time Punjab Chief Minister Parkash Singh Badal asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday to “show magnanimity” and immediately scrap the three controversial agriculture laws “as a first step” towards resolution of the ongoing stalemate between the farmers and the government. “The scars of wounds already inflicted will take a long time to heal,” he said in a letter to the Prime Minister. Mr. Badal also demanded “100% procurement of farmers’ produce at Minimum Support Price [fixed according to the Swaminathan Formula, C2+50] and that this be made a statutory legal right of the farmer”. He emphasised the “the need for a liberal, secular democratic approach to solving all the problems facing the country”. Mr. Badal said there was a need for making India a truly federal country. “The roots of the ongoing crisis lie in the abdication of our commitment to the federal approach,” he said. “The farmers’ crisis is not the only instance where this inclusive approach to nation-building has been ignored or abandoned.” Call for consensus Politics of confrontation had fractured the social fabric, Mr. Badal wrote. “Consultation, conciliation and consensus are the foundation of any democracy. Consultative processes alone lead to consensus, and consensus alone is the recipe for avoiding confrontations like the one we see now between the government and the farmers.” ‘Withdraw Acts’ “The three Acts in question that have pushed the country into deep turmoil must be withdrawn without making the farmers and their families endure any more suffering in this biting cold. The issue does not concern farmers alone, but affects the entire economic fabric of the country, as traders, businessmen, shopkeepers, arhtiyas [commission agents] and labour are also directly affected by it,” he wrote.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pm-should-show-magnanimity/article33274974.ece
08 December 2020||Bengaluru,||Air quality in Bengaluru better this November: Study||Data from the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) have revealed that pollution levels for November in Bengaluru, Hyderabad and Chennai were comparatively better than that of November 2019, but still below the prescribed WHO standards. This conclusion was drawn by Greenpeace India, which analysed the data to find that Bengaluru recorded only 12 days in the month where the PM2.5 concentration remained under the prescribed WHO standards. “The reduction in PM2.5 emissions ranged from 16-37%, however, the air quality in all three cities still remains higher than the prescribed WHO standards (25μg/m3),” said Greenpeace India in a press release. In Bengaluru, the average concentration of PM2.5 this November recorded was 33.49μg/m3 as compared to 40.33μg/m3 in November 2019, which means the average concentration of PM2.5 reduced by 16.96%, the release went on to note. According to researchers, Bapuji Nagar and Jayanagar remained hotspots with an average PM2.5 concentration of 42μg/m3 and 39μg/m3 respectively. BTM Layout was the least polluted area with an average PM2.5 concentration around 20μg/m3. The Greenpeace India report also linked deaths of air pollution levels. “According to an online tool developed by IQAir AirVisual and Greenpeace Southeast Asia, air pollution from PM2.5 and nitrogen dioxide were responsible for 7,577; 6,228; and 6,374 premature deaths respectively in Bengaluru, Hyderabad, and Chennai from January 4 to September 4, 2020,” read the release. Climate campaigner at Greenpeace India, Avinash Chanchal urged government agencies to adopt clean energy reforms. “Apart from industries, vehicular pollution continues to be a major source of pollution in these cities. Expansion of the city area and population, along with growth in economic activities in the peri-urban areas, has resulted in high vehicle ownership rates. It’s high time that the governments and local authorities adopt systemic reforms on clean energy and transport that includes promotion of decentralized model of renewable energy, generation of green jobs, measures taken to promote electric vehicles and rebuilding trust in public transport,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/air-quality-in-bengaluru-better-this-november-study/article33275068.ece
08 December 2020||Kolkata,||‘Wont yield to blackmail by BJP’s friends during polls’||At a time when speculations are rife over the falling out of Trinammol Congress leader Suvendu Adhikari with the party, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday held a public meeting at Mr. Adhikar’s turf and gave a clear message that she will not yield to “blackmailing and bargaining” before polls. “The BJP and friends of BJP are trying various tricks. I want to tell them you cannot blackmail the TMC, you cannot bargain with TMC whenever elections approaches,” Ms Banerjee said addressing the gathering at Purba Medinipur district. The Chief Minister did not make any direct reference to Mr. Adhikari but her remarks were clearly aimed at TMC heavyweight, who was in Kolkata when she was addressing the rally. Ms. Banerjee’s rally at Purba Medinipur was also a show of strength and the entire district was flooded with posters and placards of the Chief Minister. No member of the Adhikari family, including his father Sisir Adhikari and brother Dibyendu Adhikari were present at Ms. Banerjee’s rally. Both of them are MPs are from Purba Medinipur district. Of the 12 TMC MLAs from the district seven of them were present at the rally. Ms. Banerjee said when she started the party many would take a swipe saying that it won’t last long but now the party has turned into a huge tree. Another senior TMC leader and Rajya Sabha Manas Ranjan Bhuniya referred to the famous analogy of Mir Zafar and Siraj-ud-Daulah during the Battle of Plassey but he also refrained from taking any names. The Chief Minister said she was in full support of the farmer’s agitation in Delhi. “The BJP government should either withdraw these farm bills or resign,” she said. Ms Banerjee directed her party to hold protests in every block on Tuesday to support the nationwide strike called by farmers and supported by political parties in Opposition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/wont-yield-to-blackmail-by-bjps-friends-during-polls/article33275536.ece
08 December 2020||bhubaneswar,||Launch of fortified rice in PDS opposed by activists||As the Odisha government is preparing to launch fortified rice in the Public Distribution System (PDS) in Malkangiri district from coming February, more than 100 activists have opposed the move saying the people have sufficient substitutes in natural food to meet the nutritional needs. “Vitamin C and calcium are available in abundance in natural food. Vitamin C is water soluble. If the rice is laced with Vitamin C, it will get washed away while the rice is cleaned before cooking. It is a futile exercise to add Vitamin C to uncooked rice. In our traditional cooking practices, lemon juice is squeezed into cooked food before its consumption,” said Samit Panda, a lead member of Right To Food Campaign, Odisha. Mr. Panda said the decision would lead to wasteful expenditure of taxpayers’ money. “The PDS rice lasts 10 days and the rest of the days people use other rice. They grow and eat millets which is very nutritious,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/launch-of-fortified-rice-in-pds-opposed-by-activists/article33275544.ece
08 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Man reunites with family after 10-month detention in Yemen||Coastal Vizhinjam witnessed a touching family reunion on Monday when a 43-year-old seaman, who was detained in Yemen for almost ten months, returned home to his wife and three sons. Abdul Vahab Musthaba was among 14 Indians who were held by Houthi rebels, reportedly, in Sana’a. Released on November 28, Mr. Musthaba reunited with his wife Shanifa Beevi, sons Mohammed Shahid, Mohammed Shan, and Abdul Vahab, and his 65-year-old mother Umaifa on Monday afternoon. A second Keralite in the group, Praveen Thammakarantavida of Vadakara, also returned safely on Monday. Mr. Musthaba had left Kerala on January 29 for Oman where he was employed with a private company as a ‘jankar’ captain. On February 3, he and the other Indians left Masirah Island with a convoy of three ships for the Red Sea port of Yanbu in Saudi Arabia on February 3. Rough weather The passengers were mostly contract workers bound for Saudi Arabia, according to Mr. Musthaba. Midway, the convoy ran into rough weather and one of the vessels sank. “The passengers were rescued and we resumed the voyage,” he says. But they again hit rough weather in the Red Sea one-and-a-half days later, close to the Yemen-Saudi border. “We were just four or five hours away from Saudi Arabia. The convoy captain, an Egyptian, said we would not have problems with Yemeni authorities as we had dropped anchor 20 nautical miles away from their coast,” Mr. Musthaba recalls. But their ordeal began when they were detained, reportedly on February 14, by a group that initially identified itself as the navy, he says.  Held in a hotel “But later on, it became clear that they were Houthis,” according to him. “They took us to the Salif port. At first, we were told that we would be released soon. But we were taken to Sana’a where we were held in a hotel. We have been there ever since,” says Mr. Musthaba. The men were provided food, but were not permitted to contact their families at first. “That was the situation for about two months. Then they allowed us to talk to our families for five minutes over mobile phone. That was how the people back home got to know of our plight,” he says. Efforts to get the Indians released began once the Indian Embassy in Yemen was alerted. The 14 men were finally released on November 28. Mr. Musthaba and Mr. Praveen flew to Mumbai via Dubai. On Monday, they landed at the Kannur international airport where Mr. Musthaba was met by his younger brother Abdul Vahid. Incidentally, in the initial days of their detention, the men were scarcely aware of the gravity of the COVID-19 pandemic. They became aware of the extent of its global spread only when they were allowed to contact their families, says Mr. Musthaba. “Luckily, none of us were infected while we were in Yemen,” he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/man-reunites-with-family-after-10-month-detention-in-yemen/article33274950.ece
08 December 2020||Mumbai,||Jail sent back spectacles meant for Navlakha, alleges partner||The Taloja Central Jail refused to accept spectacles sent for Gautam Navlakha, after they were stolen, alleges his partner Sahba Husain. Talking to The Hindu , Ms. Husain said, “Gautam lost his spectacles on November 27 but he couldn’t call earlier and inform me as he had to wait for his turn to call. On November 30, when he was finally able to call he told me he lost his pair.” “He has a very high-power number about 6.5 and is almost blind without them. So I immediately got a new one made and sent it by Speed Post as the jail authorities do not accept courier on December 3. I thought it would have reached by now so I tracked it online only to find out that it reached the jail on December 5 but was returned on December 6,” Ms. Husain said. “Will all the accused of Bhima Koregaon be treated like this.. where Stan Swamy has to wait for a month to get a sipper and now this..,” she exclaimed. Jail Superintendent Kaustubh Kurlekar told The Hindu , “We do not accept any couriers and we have not received any parcel by post. I have told him if he wants to get another pair made, he can give us the power of his specs and we can make one for him. But he hasn’t. so what can we do?” He said, “All the accused of Elghar Parishad , whether Varvara Rao, Stan Swamy or him, they can’t take care of themselves or their belongings. Is it our responsibility to take care of his specs?” Mr. Navlakha, is nearly 70, and has several ailments. He surrendered before the National Investigation Agency office at New Delhi on April 14. He has been charged with several sections of IPC and Unlawful Activities Prevention Act in the Bhima Koregaon case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/taloja-jail-sent-back-spectacles-for-navlakha-alleges-partner/article33275009.ece
08 December 2020||KOCHI,||Kerala HC lifts bail condition for godman accused in rape case||The Kerala High Court on Monday vacated a condition set by the court while granting bail to Swami Gangeshananda Theerthapather of the Panmana Asharam, Karunagapally, Kollam, in a rape case. The condition had barred him from entering the limits of Thiruvananthapuram district. His genital was allegedly chopped off by the girl whom he allegedly attempted to rape. The alleged incident occurred at her residence at Pettah on May 19, 2017. The Petta police had registered a case against him under the provisions of the Protection of Children Against Sexual Offences (POCSO ) Act and Section 376 (rape) and other sections of the Indian Penal Code following a complaint by the girl. She had accused the swami of sexually abusing her for several years. He had visited her home frequently to perform rituals. The girl had later appeared before the police and retracted her earlier statement regarding the incident. According to swami’s petition, he was a senior citizen afflicted with lifestyle disorders and he needed to be in Thiruvananthapuram for medical treatment. So, he sought lifting of the bail condition.  Swami claimed in his petition he needed to be in the capital district for medical treatment||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kerala-hc-lifts-bail-condition-for-godman-accused-in-rape-case/article33275416.ece
08 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Modi backs Macron in fight against terror||Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke to French Prime Minister Emmanuel Macron on Monday night, offering India’s support to France on fighting terrorism, and also invited Mr. Macron to visit Delhi. “The Prime Minister conveyed to President Macron his condolences for the terror attacks in France, and reiterated India’s full support to France in the fight against terrorism, extremism and radicalism,” said the Ministry of External Affairs, referring to a spate of deadly knife attacks in October by Islamist radicals, that Mr. Macron has vowed to stop with a tough security law. Mr. Modi’s call came days after Mr. Macron said in an interview that he felt France was “lonely” in fighting for freedom of speech, referring to an ongoing spat with Turkish President Recep Erdogan who has been sharply critical of Mr. Macron for his response to the attacks. A statement from the MEA said Mr. Modi and Mr. Macron also discussed the post-COVID-19 situation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/modi-backs-macron-in-fight-against-terror/article33275012.ece
08 December 2020||December 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Farm leaders seek non-political support||The advisory asked them to maintain peace and ensure that all COVID-19 guidelines are strictly followed.  ‘No disruptions’ The farm union leaders have said the strike will be effective from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. but no kind of essential or emergency services will be disrupted. Mr. Pal dismissed the Centre’s accusations of party politics overtaking the farmers’ agenda. “Even Kejriwal saab came this morning, but we did not give him our stage. We have been here from November 27. You cannot give even one example of the farmers taking funds from political parties, or allowing them to speak from our stage. We are very firm on it,” he said. Taking on the government, he said, “The BJP may have its own narrative. But they must answer why we have support from such a wide section of society.” Balbir Singh Rajewal, who heads his own faction of the Bharatiya Kisan Union, pointed out that support had come from farmers, workers and traders associations, and the All India Railwaymen’s Federation, as well as from the Bar Association of the Supreme Court and retired IAS Officers Associations. Five rounds of talks had taken place between farmers and the Central government led by Agriculture Minister N.S Tomar. Another round is proposed on December 9.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/farm-leaders-seek-non-political-support/article33275563.ece
08 December 2020||NEW DELHI/HYDERABAD,||Vijayashanti joins BJP||Actor-turned-politician Vijayashanti on Monday joined the BJP, returning to the party she had joined in the late 90s before moving on to the Telangana Rashtra Samithi and later the Congress. She joined the party in the presence of minister of state for home, G Kishen Reddy, general secretary Arun Singh and state unit chief Bandi Sanjay Kumar at the national headquarters of the BJP in New Delhi. At the ceremony, Ms Vijayashanti asserted that only the saffron party can fulfil the aspirations of the people of Telangana. On Sunday Ms Vijayashanti had met home minister Amit Shah and on Monday evening met with party president J P Nadda. The 54-year-old politician is also a former MP. Associated with the movement for Telangana's statehood, she said the ruling TRS had failed to fulfil the people's dreams for the new state and alleged that there was rampant corruption in the government headed by Chief Minister K Chandrashekar Rao. She also recalled her earlier stint in the BJP. In fact, it is a kind of homecoming for the film star-turned-politician as she had entered politics through BJP in 1998 and left the party in 2005 following differences over the formation of Telangana. “I had to quit to keep the separate State momentum alive because some parties were opposing it. I formed the 'Talli Telangana' Party but I was pressured to join the Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) formed by KCR which came much later,” she maintained. She and KCR were the two TRS MPs in Parliament and fought for the formation of the separate State. “KCR was not even around when the bill was passed in Parliament and while he went back on his word after meeting Congress Party president Sonia Gandhi, I was unfairly suspended from the party since he did not want any other leader other than his family to be in the forefront,” she charged. The BJP mounting the challenge to KCR came after the latter had ensured there was no Opposition and had created “problems” for many leaders, she said and was sure of playing a key role in the coming days in displacing the TRS regime. “TS needs Modi for development,” she added.   Gudur joins BJP Meanwhile, former TPCC Treasurer Gudu Narayan Reddy joined BJP in the presence of BJP national President J P Nadda in New Delhi late on Monday night. BJP state chief Bandi Sanjay, national Vice President D.K. Aruna and N.Indrasena Reddy were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/vijayashanti-joins-bjp/article33275343.ece
08 December 2020||HYDERABAD,||Telangana urges CCI to withdraw terms on cotton purchases||Minister for Agriculture S. Niranjan Reddy has requested the Cotton Corporation of India (CCI) to withdraw the fresh guidelines issued for procurement of cotton which including fixing the limit of purchase at 40 quintals per farmer and presence of farmers or his family member at the procurement centre. Stating that the State government had written a letter to CCI on the new conditions for cotton procurement, the Minister alleged that instead of easing the norms in the wake of heavy rains damaging the crop this season, the CCI had imposed new conditions, in spite of the fact that the amount for cotton procured would be directly credited to the bank accounts of the farmers concerned. He noted that the CCI is now allowing only 40 quintals of produce from every farmers and in case a farmer gets more produce it is not procuring that stock in the name of re-verification. Besides, the farmers are being told to come in persons along with their pattadar passbook and if not possible, their family members should come with ration/Aadhaar cards. The Minister stated that the State government has detailed data of farmers and their landholding with the help of Rythu Bandhu information and also crops raised by farmers. The CCI could cross-check the farmers details with the State government instead of harassing them, he suggested. On payment of bonus to superfine varieties of paddy, the Minister said the Centre is preventing States’ from helping farmers by threatening to stop procurement of levy rice in case the bonus in excess of the support price is paid to farmers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/telangana-urges-cci-to-withdraw-terms-on-cotton-purchases/article33275564.ece
08 December 2020||Thrissur,||Farm laws: Kerala to move SC in two days||The Kerala government will move the Supreme Court against the controversial farm laws in two days, Agriculture Minister V.S. Sunil Kumar has said. “The government has already given directions to the Advocate General to check the options for filing a case against the laws,” the Minister said here on Monday. The government would not implement the laws in the State. “We are ready to face any consequences,” the Minister said. Joint protest Citing the protest by the Rajasthan and Punjab governments against the laws, he said the Kerala government was planning discussions with other States for a joint protest. “Kerala will take an alternative policy of opposing the corporates through cooperatives. The State will use its legislative power to form laws for the protection of farmers’ rights. The Centre is trying to force the feudal power of corporates in the farm sector.” The entire public distribution system would be sabotaged once the primary production sector and the right to food were surrendered before the corporates. It would destroy the ration system in the State too, the Minister said. “The Prime Minister’s Office has already started a move to nullify various farm development boards such as the Coconut Development Board, Rubber Board, Coffee Board, Tea Board and the Spices Board. We have received indication that such an order will be issued by the Centre this month itself,” the Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/farm-laws-kerala-will-move-sc-in-two-days/article33274948.ece
08 December 2020||December 08 2020 00:00 IST,||5 terror suspects from Kashmir, Punjab held||The police said the five were held after an exchange of fire in the Shakarpur area. Three sophisticated pistols were recovered from them. Heroin worth Rs. 8 crore, currency worth Rs. 1 lakh and two cars were also seized from them. According to police, they had information that the ISI was planning killings of right-wing leaders and had activated a “Kashmir-Khalistan” desk. Pro-Khalistan radicals were using gangsters to execute killings to revive militancy and this was noticed in 2016-17 when eight right-wing leaders were murdered in Punjab. “It was revealed that the ISI, along with Pakistan-based Khalistan radicals Harmeet Singh alias PhD [chief of the Khalistan Liberation Force] and Lakhbir Singh alias Rode [chief of the Khalistan Zindabad Force based in Pakistan], in furtherance of their conspiracy to revive militancy in Punjab, have been using gangster Sukh Bhikhariwal for target killings,” Mr. Kushwah observed. Bhikhariwal, who had set up his base in a Gulf country, had executed the killing of Balwinder in October. The ISI was funding these killings through drug trafficking. Police said Pathan was following instructions from cousin Abdul Majeed Khan, who is based in Rawalpindi and one of the senior operatives of the Hizb. Abdul introduced him to Pakistan-based operative code named “Sadakat”, another senior operative of the Hizb, based in Rawalpindi. Mr. Kushwah said, “Sadakat is said to be handling channelling of funds through narco-terrorism. Sadakat tasked them to receive a consignment of narcotics, which was infiltrated into India through Pakistan and deliver the same to his other contacts in Punjab.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/5-terror-suspects-from-kashmir-punjab-held/article33274959.ece
08 December 2020||December 08 2020 00:00 IST,||SC caveats for Central Vista inauguration||Mr. Mehta, after receiving instructions from the government, apologised to the court and gave an undertaking that no physical changes would be made to the area. “I can make a statement that there will be no construction, demolition or felling of trees. Foundation stone will be laid. But no physical change,” he stated. The order said, “After interacting with the Solicitor General and when the concern of the Court was expressed, on instructions, the Solicitor General stated that there will be no construction activity of any nature on the concerned site(s) nor demolition of any structure will be done, including the further trans-location of tree(s) will be kept in abeyance, until the pronouncement of judgment in all these cases. We take that statement on record. In view of the above, we clarify that the authorities would be free to continue with procedural processes without altering the status of the site(s) in question in any manner, including to continue with the scheduled programme of foundation stone-laying on December 10, 2020”. The court said the case was listed suo motu on Monday as it noticed certain “developments”. On November 5, the Bench reserved its judgment on the petitions challenging the redevelopment project of the Central Vista area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-allows-foundation-laying-of-new-parliament/article33274960.ece
08 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Only BJP can fulfil hopes of Telangana: Vijayashanti||Actor-turned-politician Vijayashanti on Monday joined the BJP, returning to the party she had joined in the late 90s before moving on to the Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) and later the Congress. She joined the party in the presence of Minister of State for Home G. Kishen Reddy, general secretary Arun Singh and State unit chief Bandi Sanjay Kumar at the party’s national headquarters in New Delhi. At the event, Ms. Vijayashanti asserted that only the saffron party could fulfil the aspirations of the people of Telangana. On Sunday, Ms. Vijayashanti had met Union Home Minister Amit Shah. She had also with party president J.P. Nadda on Monday. The 54-year-old politician is also a former MP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/only-bjp-can-fulfil-hopes-of-telangana-vijayashanti/article33274962.ece
08 December 2020||December 08 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Seek non-political support for Bandh’||The advisory asked them to maintain peace and ensure that all COVID-19 guidelines are strictly followed.  ‘No disruptions’ The farm union leaders have said the strike will be effective from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. but no kind of essential or emergency services will be disrupted. Mr. Pal dismissed the Centre’s accusations of party politics overtaking the farmers’ agenda. “Even Kejriwal saab came this morning, but we did not give him our stage. We have been here from November 27. You cannot give even one example of the farmers taking funds from political parties, or allowing them to speak from our stage. We are very firm on it,” he said. Taking on the government, he said, “The BJP may have its own narrative. But they must answer why we have support from such a wide section of society.” Balbir Singh Rajewal, who heads his own faction of the Bharatiya Kisan Union, pointed out that support had come from farmers, workers and traders associations, and the All India Railwaymen’s Federation, as well as from the Bar Association of the Supreme Court and retired IAS Officers Associations. Five rounds of talks had taken place between farmers and the Central government led by Agriculture Minister N.S Tomar. Another round is proposed on December 9.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/farm-leaders-seek-non-political-support/article33274963.ece
08 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Kerala MLA withdraws plea to delay local polls||Kerala legislator P.C. George on Monday withdrew his petition seeking a postponement of the local body elections in the State owing to the pandemic. A Bench led by Justice L. Nageswara Rao said Mr. George was free to pursue his remedies in the Kerala High Court “relating to option of postal ballots for being made available to the senior citizens and COVID-19 suspects / affected persons.” The local body polls will begin on Tuesday. Mr. George had urged the apex court to direct it to be postponed to March next year. The legislator had made an earlier plea before the Election Commission. Appeal A subsequent appeal to the High Court had also failed, following which he had moved the Supreme Court. "Election commission has dealt with the then problems as on date of the proceedings, i.e.; October and did not consider future problems. COVID-19 problems The report of the Health Director and the Chief Secretary is confined to the COVID-19 problems up to the month of September. The future problems, i.e.; the hike in the spread of COVID-19 in the month of October to December etc; were not incorporated in the reports of the Health Officer and the Chief Secretary,” the petition in the apex court said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kerala-mla-withdraws-plea-to-delay-local-polls/article33274964.ece
08 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Court refuses to quash FIRs against TV anchor||The Supreme Court on Monday refused to quash the criminal action initiated against TV anchor Amish Devgan for making derogatory remarks against Sufi saint Khwaja Moinuddin Chishti on air. The court, however, protected him from immediate arrest, provided he cooperated with the investigation. It transferred the various FIRs registered against him to Ajmer. When senior advocate Siddharth Luthra sought permission to let his client appear via virtual court, the court told him to make his request before the appropriate court. FIRs have been lodged against Mr. Devgan in Rajasthan, Maharashtra and Telangana for his remarks during a programme telecast on June 15. Two were registered at Ajmer and Kota in Rajasthan, one at Bahadurpura in Hyderabad and two in Nanded and Pydhonie in Maharashtra. The Pydhonie FIR accused him of hurting religious sentiments. Tweets apology Mr. Devgan had later tweeted an apology, saying he was actually referring to Muslim ruler Alauddin Khilji and inadvertently ended up naming Chishti. He said it was an error on his part, and thus, could not be treated as an offence. He argued that he was, in a well-orchestrated manner, made a victim of baseless criminal complaints across the country. He said his family and his crew had received death threats.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/court-refuses-to-quash-firs-against-tv-anchor/article33274992.ece
08 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Leaders, anchors should speak carefully: Bench||The Supreme Court on Monday held that “persons of influence”, from top government functionaries to political leaders to “credible” TV anchors, owe a duty to society to choose their words and not slip into hate speech. A Bench of Justices A.M. Khanwilkar and Sanjeev Khanna said the impact of hate speech depends on the person who has uttered the words. “A speech by ‘a person of influence’ such as a top government or executive functionary, Opposition leader, political or social leader of following, or a credible anchor on a TV show carries a far more credibility and impact than a statement made by a common person on the street,” Justice Khanna, who wrote the judgment, observed. The verdict refused to quash the several FIRs of hate speech registered against TV host Amish Devgan, who made derogatory remarks about a Sufi saint on air. The court said he was more of a “co-participant” than a “mere host” during the show. “Persons of influence, keeping in view their reach, impact and authority they yield on general public or the specific class to which they belong, owe a duty and have to be more responsible... They are expected to know and perceive the meaning conveyed by the words spoken or written, including the possible meaning that is likely to be conveyed,” Justice Khanna reasoned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/leaders-anchors-should-speak-carefully-bench/article33274999.ece
08 December 2020||Kochi,||Joseph group candidates not Independents: HC||The Kerala High Court on Monday directed the State Election Commission (SEC) to allow candidates of the P.J. Joseph faction of the Kerala Congress (M) to contest the local body elections as candidates fielded by the group under its symbol ‘chenda’. Justice A. Muhamed Mustaque issued the order on a petition filed by Mr. Joseph. According to him, the Election Commission had allowed the symbol of chenda to contest as Kerala Congress Joseph group. However, the SEC was trying to treat all candidates belonging to his group as Independent candidates. In fact, the Joseph group was part of the UDF and if it they were treated as Independent candidates it would ultimately lead to disqualification of such elected candidates on the ground that Independent candidates had switched over to the coalition. In view of these submission, the court issued the directive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/joseph-group-candidates-not-independents-hc/article33275418.ece
08 December 2020||Lucknow,||SP’s Akhilesh Yadav detained in Lucknow||Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav was on Monday detained by police for a few hours as they prevented him from travelling to Kannauj to attend a yatra in support of the farmers. After the police cordoned off his residence and the party office, Mr. Yadav tried to lead a protest march and briefly staged a sit-in on the road before he was bundled into a police bus along with party colleagues. The district administration of Kannauj said permission was denied for the ‘kisan yatra’ planned by the SP due to security reasons and concerns over COVID-19.  Mr. Yadav, however, questioned the government’s reasoning and accused it of bias. “The BJP stopped the ‘yatra’ with the excuse of COVID. The BJP is holding all events, campaigning for elections and organising big programmes. There is no COVID for them. But if the Opposition wants to raise the voice of farmers, then there is COVID for them”, he told a television channel during the sit-in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/akhilesh-yadav-detained/article33274977.ece
08 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Body found near MiG-29K wreckage site||A body had been recovered at the MiG-29K fighter jet wreckage site and samples were being sent for DNA testing for confirmation of identity, the Navy said on Monday. Its pilot was missing after the twin-seater trainer aircraft crashed at sea off the Goa coast on November 26. A massive search and rescue had been on with deployment of nine ships, fast interceptor craft and 14 aircraft to locate the missing pilot. The co-pilot had ejected and was shifted safely. 270-hour search “Aerial search by maritime reconnaissance aircraft and helicopter sorties amounting to 270 hours have been undertaken so far,” the Navy said. Underwater search around the crash site, including extensive dives by saturation divers and continuous overnight search using high-definition (HD) camera have been undertaken in the past 10 days, it stated. All sections of the aircraft wreckage, including the ejection seats, have been accounted for, using side scan sonar and the HD cameras. The flight data recorder and the cockpit voice recorder, along with other important material, have been recovered for analysis and investigation, the Navy added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/body-found-near-mig-29k-wreckage-site/article33274990.ece
08 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC junks Arnab’s plea for CBI probe||The Supreme Court on Monday refused a plea by Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami for a CBI inquiry against top Maharashtra police officials and a blanket protection to anyone related to his media company as a “little ambitious”. “This is a little ambitious,” Justice D.Y. Chandrachud said, allowing the petitioner to withdraw the petition. During the short hearing, Justice Chandrachud, leading a Bench also comprising Justice Indira Banerjee, read aloud the various prayers made by Mr. Goswami and his company, ARG Outlier Media Private Limited. They included a direction from the Supreme Court to the Centre to “protect” Mr. Goswami and his company: order a CBI investigation against the Maharashtra DGP and the Mumbai Police Commissioner; quash all FIRs; and direct Maharashtra police not to arrest anyone associated with the company, including stakeholders. Mr. Goswami’s lawyer agreed to withdraw the petition. The Bench then dismissed the case as withdrawn, but allowed the petitioners to move the High Court or any other competent court. Earlier in November, the top court had granted bail to Mr. Goswami in an abetment to suicide case concerning the deaths of interior designer Anvay Naik and his mother Kumud Naik. The judgment had also said a “ prima facie evaluation” of the FIR against Mr. Goswami did not establish the ingredients of the offence of abetment to suicide against him.  However, the Maharashtra police recently went on to file a charge sheet, implicating Mr. Goswami and two others in the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-junks-arnabs-plea-for-cbi-probe-against-police-officials/article33274998.ece
08 December 2020||Patna,||Sushil Modi elected to the Rajya Sabha||Senior Bihar BJP leader and former Deputy Chief Minister Sushil Kumar Modi was elected unopposed to the Rajya Sabha on Monday. The seat had fallen vacant after the death of Lok Janshakti Party leader Ram Vilas Paswan in October. The election was scheduled to be held on December 14 but since no Opposition candidate had filed nominations, Mr. Sushil Modi was elected unopposed. His election was considered a formality as the NDA had got a majority in the Assembly in the Assembly election. Mr. Sushil Modi is likely to be inducted into the Union Cabinet in the next expansion of the Council of Ministers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sushil-modi-elected-to-rajya-sabha/article33275002.ece
08 December 2020||New Delhi,||Assam coal traders under I-T scanner||The Income Tax Department conducted a search and survey operation in connection with leading coal traders of Assam, on allegations that the group indulged in out-of-books transactions involving over Rs. 150 crore. In all, 21 locations in Guwahati, Digboi, Margherita and Delhi were covered since December 4. The main charges against the group were that it routed accommodation entries of over Rs. 23 crore and Rs. 62 crore in the form of non-genuine share capital and non-genuine unsecured loans through certain Kolkata-based shell companies. This was done by suppressing the net profit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/assam-coal-traders-under-i-t-scanner/article33275005.ece
08 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC orders medical seat, compensation to Telangana student||The Supreme Court on Monday directed a private medical college to pay Rs. 10 lakh in compensation to a student for illegally denying her admission to a postgraduate course this academic year. A Bench led by Justice L. Nageswara Rao also ordered Kamineni Academy of Medical Sciences and Research Centre in Hyderabad to allocate Mothuru Sriyah Koumundi a seat in M.S. (General Surgery) course from the management quota for 2021-22. The judgment by Justice Rao said Ms. Koumundi “lost one precious academic year for no fault of hers, for which she has to be compensated by way of an amount of Rs. 10 lakh to be paid by the college within a period of four weeks from today.” With this, the court has extended the application of its 2019 judgment in the S. Krishna Sradha case, which empowered courts to direct private medical colleges to not only pay compensation but also admit a student wrongly denied admission in an under-graduate course, to post-graduate medical courses too. The student’s version of events was that she had visited the college with her father on July 29 and 30, but her admission process was not completed. On the other hand, the college said she did not visit the college on these days. However, the latter’s version did not hold water as the college’s own affidavit in the State High Court revealed that the student and her father had visited the college on July 29 and paid the university fee. Besides, the college had extended the last date of admission by a month and admitted another student who was 20,000 ranks below her. Justice Rao noted that there was enough time for the college to notify her, but it did not. “The manner in which the college acted in depriving admission to Respondent No. 1 [Ms. Koumundi] and giving admission to Respondent No. 5 on August 11 is deplorable. The managements of medical colleges are not expected to indulge in such illegalities in making admissions to medical courses,” Justice Rao observed in the judgment. Though the Bench agreed with the High Court’s earlier conclusion that she was “intentionally and illegally denied admission for 2020-21,” it did not support the High Court’s direction to “create” a seat for Ms. Koumundi this year. It has been repeatedly held by this court that directions cannot be issued for increasing annual intake capacity, Justice Rao observed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-orders-medical-seat-compensation-to-telangana-student/article33275006.ece
08 December 2020||HYDERABAD,||Congress wants SEC to act against KCR||Congress party has requested the State Election Commission (SEC) to take action against Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao stating that the latter has violated the model code of conduct by influencing voters with his promise of flood relief assistance payment from December 7 in the November 28 election rally at L.B. Stadium. ‘He lured the voters’ In a representation to the SEC, Congress party’s convenor of Election Commission Coordination Committee G. Niranjan said the Chief Minister had announced during the public meeting that all flood-affected families would be paid relief assistance of Rs. 10,000 each. He made the promise to lure the voters. Mr. Nirajan said the Congress party had lodged a complaint with SEC on November 28 itself but the SEC, in its reply to Congress on November 30, had given clean chit to the Chief Minister on the ground that it was an ongoing scheme which was stopped by it (SEC) till the completion of elections. He sought to know when the ongoing scheme was withheld till completion of elections, how could the Chief Minister announce that payment of flood relief assistance would resume from December 7.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/congress-wants-sec-to-act-against-kcr/article33275565.ece
08 December 2020||New Delhi,||AAP to protest at ITO in support of farmers||The Aam Aadmi Party on Monday said that it will protest peacefully at ITO intersection at 11 a.m. on Tuesday in support of Bharat Bandh by farmers. “Today the farmers of our country are in distress. I want to appeal to all the citizens of India to support their demands and to extend their support to the Bharat Bandh called by the farmers tomorrow. I want to appeal to all to join this Bandh peacefully and stand in solidarity with the farmers of our country,” said AAP senior leader Gopal Rai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/aap-to-protest-at-ito-in-support-of-farmers/article33275201.ece
08 December 2020||Amritsar,||Farmers raise slogans against BJP during party function in Amritsar||A group of agitating farmers on Monday raised slogans against the BJP during the ‘Bhoomi Pujan’ ceremony of the party’s district unit office here. A heavy contingent of the police force was deployed to avert any untoward incident. Former State BJP chief Shwait Malik, former Ministers Anil Joshi, Laxmi Kanta Chawal, party district president Suresh Mahajan and other leaders were present. Mr. Joshi said the party always has a soft corner for farmers.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/farmers-raise-slogans-against-bjp-during-party-function-in-amritsar/article33275202.ece
08 December 2020||KOCHI,||Guruvayur entry: HC disposes of suo motu case||The Kerala High Court on Monday asked the Guruvayur Devaswom to check the veracity of reports that Devaswom Minister Kadakampally Surendran’s wife and her retinue had entered the Nalambalam of the Guruvayur Sreekrishna temple violating the COVID-19 restrictions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/guruvayur-entry-hc-disposes-of-suo-motu-case/article33275417.ece
08 December 2020||KOCHI,||Sivasankar withdraws bail plea in Economic Offences Court||M. Sivasankar, former Principal Secretary to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, on Monday withdrew his bail application filed before the Economic Offences Court, Ernakulam, as a bail application is pending before the Kerala High Court. When the case of diplomatic channel gold and dollar smuggling cases came up for the consideration of the court, counsel for the accused sought to postpone the case as the High Court was scheduled to consider his bail application in a case booked by the Enforcement Directorate on Tuesday. The counsel withdrew the bail application after the Economic Offence Court refused to accept the plea for postponing the case. The Customs opposed a bail application of Mr. Sivasankar stating that he had revealed crucial information that he had withheld earlier. Mr. Sivasankar, who was produced before the court, was released in judicial custody. Customs officials handed over to the court in a sealed cover what they claimed incriminating evidence against the former top bureaucrat. Copies of the WhatsApp messages and SMS extracted from the digital devices of those accused in the case were there in the sealed cover, according to sources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sivasankar-withdraws-bail-plea-in-economic-offences-court/article33274944.ece
08 December 2020||AHMEDABAD,||Section 144 to be imposed in Gujarat on Tuesday||To thwart attempts by the Opposition parties and farmers’ outfits to enforce the Bharat Bandh in Gujarat, the government is set to impose Section 144 of the Cr.P.C. The strike call issued by the farmers would not be successful in the State, Chief Minister Vijay Rupani said. He added that no one would be allowed to do politics in the name of the farmers. “Photo- graphy or videography of any unrest and its circulation on social media will attract FIR,” DGP Ashish Bhatia said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/section-144-to-be-imposed-in-gujarat-on-tuesday/article33274965.ece
08 December 2020||Delhi/Chandigarh,||Kejriwal reaches Singhu border to review arrangements for farmers’ protest||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and members of his Cabinet visited the Singhu border on Monday to “take stock of arrangements” made for the farmers. “What the farmers are demanding is just,” he told presspersons, after interacting with a few protesters. Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh, however, called it a “political spectacle”. Captain Singh asked if Mr. Kejriwal found the demands of the farmers just, why did he not get amendment laws passed in Delhi to negate the Central farm laws.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kejriwal-reaches-singhu-border-to-review-arrangements-for-farmers-protest/article33274976.ece
08 December 2020||Lucknow,||Country will not have to wait too long for COVID-19 vaccine: PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday said that the country will not have to wait too long for the coronavirus vaccine even as he cautioned people that there should be no laxity as far as preventive measures were concerned. “Masks and a distance of two yards is very necessary,” he said. He was speaking while inaugurating the construction of the Agra Metro project via video conferencing.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/country-will-not-have-to-wait-too-long-for-covid-19-vaccine-pm/article33274987.ece
08 December 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha hands over Gopalpur MLA case to Lokayukt||In a first, Odisha Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik on Monday referred the corruption allegations against Pradeep Panigrahi, Gopalpur MLA, to the Odisha Lokayukta for investigation. This was the first corruption allegation referred by the State government to Lokayukta after its creation. The MLA was accused of collecting money on behalf of one Akash Kumar Pathak by giving a false promise to provide jobs in a Tata group company.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/odisha-hands-over-gopalpur-mla-case-to-lokayukt/article33274988.ece
08 December 2020||Guwahati,||Over 70% turnout in first phase poll to Bodoland council||More than 70% of the 1,365,207 voters turned out for the first phase of the elections to the Bodoland Territorial Council in Assam on Monday. The elections to the 40-seat council have been billed as the “semi-final” before the 2021 Assembly polls, and its outcome could decide the fate of alliances. The voting too was incident-free barring a mild cane-charge outside a booth in Udalguri district. In all, 241 candidates are in the fray.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/over-70-turnout-in-first-phase-poll-to-bodoland-council/article33274991.ece
08 December 2020||Kolkata,||BJP man killed in Siliguri riot||A BJP worker died in the violence that erupted during a march of the party to the State Secretariat at Siliguri in north Bengal on Monday. The deceased, Ullen Ray (50), resident of Gazaldoba in Jalpaiguri district, had multiple “pellet injuries” and was brought to hospital in a gasping condition, doctors said. The BJP called for a 12-hour bandh in north Bengal to protest against the death and “attacks” on party supporters by the police. “Ulen Ray, an innocent Rajbongshi protester who came to protest the deprivation, corruption and political violence in north Bengal during the #UttarkanyaCholo abhiyan, was murdered in police firing today. His sacrifice won’t go in vain,” State BJP president Dilip Ghosh said. Mr. Ghosh, who visited the hospital where injured BJP supporters were taken, said that about 50 party supporters, including some women, were injured in the violence. According to the police, serious acts of violence were committed at Siliguri. The police personnel showed restraint and there was no use of firearms. The march was organised by the Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM), and senior BJP leaders, including Mr. Ghosh and Kailash Vijayvargiya, were present. A BJP delegation met Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar and informed him about the violence. Trinamool Congress leader and Minister Gautam Deb said the protests were far from a democratic movement and what happened was most unfortunate. Similar scenes of violence were witnessed on October 8 during the BJP’s march to the State Secretariat in Kolkata.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-man-killed-in-siliguri-riot/article33275001.ece
08 December 2020||Idukki,||Two migrants workers hacked to death||Two migrant workers who had been staying in a house at Thovala, near Erattayar, were allegedly hacked to death over a financial dispute late Sunday. One person has been arrested in connection with incident. The victims were identified as Jharkhand Godda residents Jash Marandi, 32, and Shukku Marandi, 43. Shukku Marandi’s wife, Vasanthy, who sustained injuries on the head, has been admitted to hospital. According to the police, the incident took place around 11 p.m. The accused, Sanjay Basak, 30, hacked the duo following an altercation. Vasanthy who came to shield her husband was also attacked. She managed to inform her neighbours about the attack. The accused had by then escaped onto a cardamom estate in the area from where the police took him into custody on Monday morning. A police team led by the Kattappana DySP had reached the spot on being alerted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/two-migrants-workers-hacked-to-death/article33274958.ece
08 December 2020||Chandigarh,||AAP asks Punjab BJP leaders to quit party in support of farmers||The Aam Aadmi Party called upon BJP leaders in Punjab to quit the party and stand in support of the farmers in their fight against the three farm laws. AAP Punjab State president and Lok Sabha MP Bhagwant Mann also accused the Congress and the Shiromani Akali Dal (Badal) of sabotaging the movement. “The Congress and the SAD along with the BJP had been working to derail the farmers movement,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/aap-asks-punjab-bjp-leaders-to-quit-party-in-support-of-farmers/article33274972.ece
08 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Reply to cases over ban on online rummy, HC tells govt.||The Madras High Court on Monday directed the State government to file its counter affidavit to writ petitions filed by three online games portals challenging the constitutional validity of an Ordinance promulgated on November 21 banning all games, including rummy, played with stakes on the cyberspace. Third Division Bench of Justices R. Subbiah and C. Saravanan asked Advocate General Vijay Narayan to make sure that the counter was filed before December 21 and served in advance on senior counsel Mukul Rohatgi and P.S. Raman representing the petitioner companies Junglee Games, Play Games and Head Digital Works. Mr. Raman told the court that the Supreme Court had categorically held that rummy was a game of skill and not a game of chance. The legal position laid down about five decades ago continued till date with various High Courts taking a similar view. He wondered how such a game could suddenly become illegal when it was played online. In his submissions, Mr. Rohatgi said online rummy was the same as offline rummy. “There is no betting or gambling at all. It is not like three card flush,” he told the Bench and contended that the State government could enact a law or promulgate an Ordinance only if gambling or betting was involved in it and not otherwise. On the other hand, the AG urged the court to grant him two weeks since the State wanted to place a lot of materials to show the serious consequences of permitting online games played with stakes. He said children in the 15-17 age group and the youth were spending their entire savings and time in playing such games. Special senior counsel for the State government A.L. Somayaji said a game played with stakes could never be termed to be a game of pure skill. The writ petitions, falling under the first Division Bench's portfolio, were listed before the third Bench since Chief Justice Amreshwar Pratap Sahi did not take up judicial work on Monday. Hence, Justice Subbiah told the petitioners’ counsel that he would adjourn the cases by a day if they were very particular about obtaining an interim stay on the operation of the Ordinance. The counsel replied that it would be better if the State was directed to file its counter at the earliest since the companies were losing several crores of rupees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/reply-to-cases-over-ban-on-online-rummy-hc-tells-govt/article33275154.ece
08 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM opens 18 power substations||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami unveiled several infrastructure projects for various government departments through video conference from the Secretariat in Chennai on Monday. The Chief Minister inaugurated 18 electricity substations set up at a cost of Rs. 299.96 crore in Chennai, Chengalpattu, Coimbatore, Cuddalore, Dharmapuri, Kancheepuram, Madurai, Perambalur, Pudukkottai, the Nilgiris, Tirunelveli, Tiruppathur, Tiruvallur and Tiruvannamalai districts. Mr. Palaniswami inaugurated the buildings constructed for the Rural Development Department in Tiruvallur and Tirupathur districts and opened bridges in Tiruvarur and Coimbatore district. He also inaugurated buildings constructed in Tiruchi district. New buildings for Hindu Religious & Charitable Endowments Department constructed at a cost of Rs. 3.46 crore were opened. Among the buildings inaugurated on Monday were those constructed for the Commercial Taxes Department in Tiruvallur and Tiruchi districts at a cost of Rs. 1.88 crore and Rs. 84 lakh respectively. Electricity Minister P. Thangamani, Fisheries Minister D. Jayakumar, Commercial Taxes Minister K.C. Veeramani, Rural Industries Minister P. Benjamin, Labour Minister Nilofer Kafeel, Minister for Tamil Culture K. Pandiarajan, Minister for HR&CE Sevvoor S. Ramachandran, and Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-inaugurates-18-power-substations/article33275150.ece
08 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Amid restrictions, colleges reopen||Colleges reopened on Monday amidst several restrictions for students. Teachers had a tough time in ensuring that students complied with the norms. For many students, it was an opportunity to catch up with friends but others, such as those in medical colleges who were returning from other places, had to go into quarantine. R. Varshini, a third year BBA student at the SDNB Vaishnav College, said since the college had started online exams, she did not have to go. “Some of my friends from other departments did not go either though they had no exams,” she said. A postgraduate student from Pachaiyappa’s College said it was difficult for her to commute from Sholinganallur. “I am afraid of travelling in crowded buses,” she said. At D.G. Vaishnav College, principal Santhosh Baboo said all precautions had been taken to ensure students followed the safety protocol. “We have placed sanitiser dispensers in all blocks and clean the toilets more frequently. The attendance was only around 50%,” he said although he expected more students to return to campus, once word got around that the safety protocols were followed. “We have 12 security staff checking the temperature as well,” he said. Due to restrictions on train travel, he said students were seeking letters of permission. “I have been issuing letters to all those who have asked me,” Mr. Baboo said. V. Subathra, principal of Malolan College of Arts and Science, affiliated to the University of Madras, said the students were excited to return to the campus. “They managed to come today somehow. But they wanted buses to be arranged for their pick up,” she said. College faculty said the students wanted online exams. Teachers, however, suspect that students found it easy as there would be no one to supervise them. Strict quarantine At the Madras Medical College, classes had begun for students in second and third year while the final year students were quarantined, said Dean E. Therani Rajan. Final year student A. Hemanth Kumar of Kilpauk Medical College said: “As of now, we students have been instructed to follow strict quarantine in hostel for the next 14 days (till December 20). Our professors have resumed classes through online demonstrations, It was good to get back to postings but with a mixed mindset of keeping ourselves safe on one hand and learning on the other. Hopefully, by the end of two weeks/quarantine, we will be attending clinics with precautions and regulations in smaller batches,” said the student who hails from Dharmapuri. Engineering college students are preparing for their semester exams, said R.M. Kishore of RMK group of institutions. “We were ready. Staff came but students did not turn up because they are in study holidays and exam is to be conducted online,” he said. While all other universities conducted online exams, the Tamil Nadu Veterinary and Animal Sciences University did not. University officials said since most of the work was practical, students could not be asked to take online exams. “We started final year exam alone by online as per the guidelines issued by Veterinary Council of India. The remaining batches will take offline exam after sometime,” said P. Kumarasamy, Controller of Examination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/amid-virus-restrictions-colleges-reopen/article33275158.ece
08 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Impact of Rajini’s entry will be similar to MGR’s’||S. Gurumurthy, a 71-year-old political commentator and the Editor of Tamil magazine ‘Thuglaq’, is emphatic in his assertion that though actor Rajinikanth and AIADMK founder M.G. Ramachandran are not alike, the impact of their entry into politics could be similar. Here, he talks of the several issues that are of significance in the run up to the Assembly election in 2021. Excerpts:  After Rajinikanth’s decision to set up a party in January, you, as a long-standing political commentator and his friend, went on record, stating that the move has the potential to transform Tamil Nadu’s political landscape. Can you elaborate? There is a historical context to my statement. Tamil Nadu was the first State to challenge the Congress ideologically, through its Dravidian movement. When the DMK [Dravida Munnetra Kahagam] won in 1967, it did not mean victory for just a political party. It was the victory of an ideology that rejected much of what the Congress stood for — national integration and such other matters. After M.G. Ramachandran formed the AIADMK [All-India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam in October 1972], on his expulsion from the DMK, everybody thought, at the time of the Dindigul by-election in 1973, the DMK vote being divided, Congress (O), led by K. Kamaraj, would emerge victorious. But MGR’s AIADMK won, with the Congress finishing second, and the DMK third. In terms of vote share, it bagged around 52% votes, reducing the DMK’s vote share by nearly 30%, as the latter got about 59% in the 1971 general election. The AIADMK also obtained 12% of votes from Congress (O). After Kamaraj’s death [in October 1975], no one could probably defeat the DMK, and this was why more and more national minded votes began going to the AIADMK. At present, the AIADMK and the DMK’s own votes, which are impregnable, are in the range of 18%-20%. The rest of the votes that they get, is not their own. So, their [AIADMK and DMK] base is not as large as the votes they get. This is the historical background. Neither the DMK nor the AIADMK will be able to maintain mutually antipathic votes, if an option is available, just as MGR was in 1973. A similar situation is likely to develop now, which is more possible than ever before, because there is fatigue with both the parties. It cannot be denied that there is a social, political and cultural fatigue with both parties. This is even more so because two towering leaders [M. Karunanidhi and Jayalalithaa], who could have arrested the trend, are not there. Tamil Nadu’s politics, despite its ideological issues, is personality centric. He [Rajini] is not just seen as a cinema star, but also a good person, a clean man and as someone wanting to do something good for Tamil Nadu. Importantly, he is a nationalist. He will not allow separatism of any kind. He also has a spiritual bend of mind, which can be equated with the soft Hindu mind of the undivided Congress of 1950s and 1960s. Will Rajinikanth’s entry lead to a re-alignment of political forces? The re-alignment will not only be outside the DMK and the AIADMK, but also within both the parties. You have also been saying that there is a huge separation between “atheist politics and religious Tamil Nadu” and Rajini’s idea of “spiritual politics” is aimed at the DMK. This being the case, will his entry not adversely affect the AIADMK more than the DMK? In my view, it will affect all parties, including the BJP. My own assessment is that those who would like to join the BJP may also join Rajinikanth’s party. The autonomous growth of the BJP will be stopped by the entry of Rajinikanth, because of ideological alignment. As far as the AIADMK is concerned, the impact will be even more. But I don’t think the impact on the DMK will be less. Only the degree of impact will vary. Do you visualise any tie-up between Rajinikanth and the BJP, before or after the poll? It is very difficult to say now who will align with whom, until Rajnikanth’s impact on individual parties works itself out. The extent to which he is able to disturb the existing parties will decide what the re-alignment will be, and whether the BJP will figure in the re-alignment itself will be known only by the extent of the disturbance caused. For full interview visit: https://bit.ly/GurumurthyIn terview  The extent to which he is able to disturb the existing parties will decide what the re-alignment will be, and whether the BJP will figure in the re-alignment will be known only by the extent of the disturbance caused||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/impact-of-rajinis-entry-will-be-similar-to-mgrs/article33275124.ece
08 December 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Back-to-back cyclones leave Chennai roads battered||More than 10% of the bus route roads in the city have been rendered unmotorable because of damages caused during the recent rains from Cyclone Nivar and Cyclone Burevi that later weakened into a low-pressure area. The number of complaints received by the Greater Chennai Corporation from residents about bad roads had increased after the recent rains. Motorists complained that roads had become unmotorable on many stretches because of potholes caused by water stagnation. According to estimates released by the Corporation, 51 bus route roads have been damaged in the rains last week. The city has 471 bus route roads in the 15 zones covering 426 sq km of area. Residents said the risk of accident to motorists had increased in stretches such as Anna Main Road and Rajamangalam Main Road. Complaints were received from residents about Konnur High Road in Ayanavaram, Otteri Main Road, Arunachalam Road in Saligramam, Rajamannar Salai in K.K. Nagar and Ramasamy Salai. Former councillor S. Mangala Raj blamed the faulty design of roads and stormwater drains for the present situation. “The civic workers have also damaged many stretches to drain rainwater. For instance, the civic workers damaged the sixth street and seventh street of Kumaran Colony to drain rainwater from Vadapalani bus depot. Motorcyclists are not able to cross such stretches. There are frequent accidents,” he said. Choolai resident R. Saravanan said there had been a sudden increase in the number of potholes in roads. “Stagnant water has not been drained properly. Inadequate desilting of drains has worsened the condition of roads. Riding a motorcycle on such roads is very difficult. Motorcyclists are getting injured because of potholes that have developed in the past few days,” said Mr. Saravanan. Residents of K.K. Nagar said the stretch from K.K. Nagar Sivan Park towards Virugambakkam and the stretch towards Nesapakkam had been damaged. North Chennai residents said various civic agencies should coordinate properly to prevent damages to roads such as Cemetery Road in Royapuram. Many stretches designed under smart city mission had been damaged in the rains, primarily because of lack of coordination among various line agencies. Roads dug up More than 4,000 interior roads had been damaged during the rains. Many interior roads had been dug up by residents for getting services from line agencies. Some roads had been dug up to drain rainwater. Motorists using stretches in areas such as Anna Nagar have reported damage to roads in the past few days. Some of the concrete roads developed a few years ago have been damaged. Officials said many damages to concrete roads were caused by local residents to get unauthorised service connection. The Corporation has banned digging of roads during the monsoon to prevent accidents. The number of interior roads in the city was estimated to be 39,000. Unauthorised digging of roads had been found at over 3,000 locations during the lockdown, officials said. Corporation officials said the report on road damages had been submitted to the Central team of officials, who inspected flood damages in the city in areas such as Egmore and Sholinganallur. Restoration of damaged roads would begin after January, officials said.  Stagnant water has not been drained properly. Inadequate desilting of drains has worsened the condition of roads R. Saravanan Choolai||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/back-to-back-cyclones-leave-chennai-roads-battered/article33275603.ece
08 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Corpn. plans to improve maintenance of city parks||Maintenance of parks in the city is set to improve with the Greater Chennai Corporation planning to follow stringent norms pertaining to performance of contractors. Chennai Corporation officials said the contractors would be paid based on the score on 10 key aspects of park maintenance, including pruning of trees, cleaning of footpath, mowing of lawn and composting, cleaning of toilets, keeping play area for children clean and safe, harvesting rainwater, taking care of fountain, benches and lighting. If the residents complained about poor maintenance of parks with evidence of the damaged infrastructure, the corporation would reduce the amount paid to contractors. A meeting of contractors will be held this week to discuss various aspects of park maintenance. Outsourcing work Currently, the Chennai Corporation has outsourced maintenance of 554 parks. The new contractors to be identified in a few months are expected to be paid based on the key performance indicators. “The new performance-based system of outsourcing will be implemented in two months,” an official said. In addition to outsourcing of park maintenance, the Corporation has also permitted corporates and NGOs to adopt parks. The corporate entities will be permitted to use the park for advertisement. So far, 65 parks have been handed over for adoption. After the relaxation of the lockdown, there has been a revival of interest among corporates to adopt parks in Chennai. “At least 100 parks will be adopted shortly,”said an official. Chennai Corporation is expected to save at least Rs. 50 crore in the event of private entities adopting all the 702 parks in the city. The civic body is also planning to develop new parks in more areas. For instance, a new park for children will be developed in 4.5 acres of land near Mint Flyover. “The plan will be finalised in one week,” an official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corpn-plans-to-improve-maintenance-of-city-parks/article33275136.ece
08 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Next tech breakthrough will be internet of skills, says expert||A virtual conference on information and communication technology, with particular reference to research on 5G was held from Dec. 3 to 5 at the Indian Institute of Information Technology, Design and Manufacturing, Kancheepuram. Mischa Dohler, a global expert in wireless technology, said after mobile internet and the internet of things, the next major tech breakthrough will be the internet of skills. Such technology would enable countries to provide disaster relief from anywhere in the world to the affected part. The conference was jointly organised by the five IIITDMs. The faculty of IIITDM-Kancheepuram, a centre of excellence in design and manufacturing of IT and IT-enabled products, have contributed significantly to technologies of 5G cellular networks such as artificial intelligence, internet of things, cooperative communication and such. The institute is developing a 5G research lab to work on related algorithms. Mr. Dohler said the internet of skills would be an enabler for remote skillset delivery and thus democratise labour globally the way the internet democratised knowledge. Thomas Kailath, emeritus professor of engineering from the Department of Electrical Engineering, Stanford University, urged students to have broad interests to be able to cross apply tools, perspectives, ideas from other fields. Breakthroughs happen in the course of trying to solve a problem, he explained. The conference hosted an industry forum besides paper presentations on AI and ML, big data analytics and cloud computing, besides COVID-19 technologies and data analysis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/next-tech-breakthrough-will-be-internet-of-skills-says-expert/article33275604.ece
08 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chennai’s daily case count dips to 307||Tamil Nadu reported 1,312 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Monday, taking the State’s tally to 7,91,552. Chennai registered a marginal decline in its daily count, with 307 infections. Sixteen more persons, including seven in Chennai and four in Tiruvallur, succumbed to the infection, taking the toll to 11,809. Of these, nine deaths occured in private hospitals. As many as 1,389 persons were discharged after treatment. Till date, 7,69,048 persons have been discharged. There were 10,695 active cases in the State. A total of 64,010 samples were tested in the last 24 hours, taking the total figure to 1,25,40,103. Perambalur recorded no new cases, while eight other districts saw cases in single digits. Coimbatore recorded 124 cases, while Chengalpattu saw 87. There were 75 cases in Tiruppur, 72 in Salem, 69 in Tiruvallur and 56 in Erode. With the fresh cases, Chennai’s tally stood at 2,17,850 — 2,10,769 discharged, 3,199 active cases and 3,882 deaths. All 16 deceased had co-morbidities and were aged over 50. One of them, a 56-year-old man from Chennai who had diabetes and hypertension, died on December 6 due to COVID-19 pneumonia. A 55-year-old man from Tiruvallur, with interstitial lung disease, coronary artery disease, chronic kidney disease and systemic hypertension, died on December 5 due to COVID-19 pneumonia, acute respiratory distress syndrome and interstitial lung disease.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chennais-daily-case-count-dips-to-307/article33275131.ece
08 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tips for The Hindu Margazhi classical music competition||As young artistes continue to send in entries for The Hindu Margazhi classical music competition, for which the last date is December 12, 2020, we present some valuable tips from seasoned artistes who have taken part in various competitions and succeeded. Vocalist Sriranjani Santhanagopalan said that participants should learn the lyrics well and ensure proper pronunciation and not make mistakes in that area. “If it is a competition on krithis of composers, which is the usual practice, they should also learn the context in which the song was composed. They should be able to bring out the essence of the raga in the opening phrase itself,” she said. Vocalist Amritha Murali said that participants should keep in mind that presentation matters too. “It is a classical art that they are performing. They should dress accordingly and sing in a relaxed manner. There is no need to hurry. They should select a krithi that they know well and should not look at their notes while singing,” she said and added that the participants should choose a piece that can showcase their strength. Vocalist Sikkil C. Gurucharan said that participants should look out for pitfalls including sruti and taala lapses and voice slips.  When you make the video to be sent tothmargazhi@thehindu.co.indo remember to place the camera at a comfortable distance. Take a few test videos for audio and visual clarity and send the best recording. For more detailshttps://www.google.com/ amp/s/www.thehindu. com/news/national/ tamil-nadu/the-hindu- announces-margazhi- competition-for-young- indian-classical-musicians /article33231111.ece/amp/||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tips-for-the-hindu-margazhi-classical-music-competition/article33275135.ece
08 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Service lane of Ennore Express Road damaged due to rain||The movement of container-carrying trailers on the coastal Ennore Express Road has been badly hit due to bad condition of the service lane on the sea side. The containers are allowed only on the service lane in order to make the main carriageway congestion free for other vehicles. The recent rain has caused huge potholes on the service lane that is hardly a few metres away from the constantly battering waves, considerably slowing down container movement in that area. E. Kalimuthu, a trailer driver, said since these were large vehicles and could not avoid the potholes as they had no other way but to drive over them. In some stretches, like near Pattinathar Samadhi and Tiruvottiyur Kuppam, the damage was so bad that one was afraid the vehicles may even topple. Due to the vehicle pile up, sometimes trailers were made to wait on the Eranavur bridge or even on Outer Ring Road. Rajesh, a resident of Tiruvottiyur, said no temporary restoration work, including dumping of building debris or patch work, had been taken up in that stretch. On an average, over 3,000 containers take that road daily. He added that portions of the northern sector of the Inner Ring Road too had been damaged and needed repairs. Sources in the police echoed the same and said that the road condition was very pathetic. “We have informed the National Highways Authority of India, which maintains the road, about the issue,” an official said. An official of the National Highways Authority of India said repair work would be carried out shortly. The service lane had been designed for light traffic but these were extremely heavy vehicles, which was adding to the problem. It would be set right soon, he added.  We have informed the National Highways Authority of India, which maintains the road, about the issue||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/service-lane-of-ennore-express-road-damaged-due-to-rain/article33275142.ece
08 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tourists must not visit containment zones, states SOP||Tourists visiting places of interest in Tamil Nadu should not visit COVID-19 containment zones, the State government said in a standard operating procedure (SOP) issued on Monday, allowing tourist places to open for visitors. The SOP, issued by Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam, said tourists have to wear face masks at all times. “Keep a safe distance, always, as per physical distancing norms. Wash hands frequently with soaps/sanitisers,” the SOP read. Tourists are to put disposable plates/cups/bottles, after use, into garbage bags. “The ongoing pandemic has brought most of the world to a standstill, and has presented the tourism sector with unprecedented challenges. The health and safety of the people is top priority,” it noted. Rebuilding trust and confidence in tourism will be key to ensuring the revival of tourism, it noted, adding that safety protocol should be followed, at all tourist destinations, from the moment a tourist enters the place. “The Administrative Department of the ticketed tourist destinations shall be responsible for general preparedness. These preparedness measures aim to prevent cases, effectively manage infections and mitigate impact among tourists visiting the destination,” it said. The COVID-19 crisis management team will be responsible for drafting an action plan for implementing various activities, with respect to general preparedness of the tourist destination, including crowd management, training of staff and ensuring compliance to hygiene and sanitation/disinfection guidelines, physical distancing norms, among other things. The G.O., with the SOP, can be accessed at The Hindu portal at:https://bit.ly/TNGODec7  The Administrative Department of the ticketed tourist destinations shall be responsible for general preparedness||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/containment-zones-will-continue-to-be-off-limits-says-sop/article33275121.ece
08 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Govt. medical colleges record 75% attendance||Nearly 75% of the students turned up at government medical colleges on Monday, the first day of reopening, according to officials at the Directorate of Medical Education (DME). R. Narayana Babu, Director of Medical Education, said the remaining students would be joining later. “Private medical college students can approach the nearest government medical college hospital for free COVID-19 testing,” he said. Students were divided into three batches for colleges with 250 students and two batches for colleges with 100 to 150 students. “We have instructed colleges that one batch should have less than 80 students,” he said. At the Madras Medical College, 232 final year students reported on the first day. P. Balaji, Dean of Government Stanley Medical College, said 144 day scholars (first year, second year, pre-final and final years) turned up. Among hostel students, 264 of the 362 women and 336 of the 460 men attended college. Colleges made elaborate arrangements to put in place COVID-19 norms. R. Jayanthi, Dean of Government Medical College Hospital, Omandurar Estate, where 206 of the 409 students reported, said arrangements were made as per the guidelines issued by the National Medical Commission and State government. The RT-PCR test reports of students were checked and they were screened for fever. Students were given counselling as they were returning to college after eight months. Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan addressed the students of the college.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-medical-colleges-record-75-attendance/article33275156.ece
08 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Probe against Surappa: Kamal hits back at critics||After giving a clean chit to Anna University Vice-Chancellor Surappa on Sunday, Makkal Needhi Maiam founder Kamal Haasan on Monday slammed his critics saying that the intention behind labelling him a ‘Sanghi’ or as part of someone’s ‘B’ team even when he stands for the right cause is to uphold corruption. In a tweet, Mr. Haasan said that it is no surprise that those who have been exploiting and ‘eating the wealth of Tamil Nadu’ will get together when there is a threat to their business. “After all, aren't they the one who filled Tihar and Parappana Agrahara jails?” he said. Mr. Haasan stated that he is the ‘B’ team of Mahatma Gandhi whose message was the life that he lived. “I have been the ‘A’ team since the age of six. I am reiterating this for the corrupt heir apparents of A1,” he said. MNM party sources said that Mr. Haasan released the video only after meeting Mr. Surappa a few weeks and listening to his side of the story. C.K. Kumaravel, MNM’s general secretary, said that while honest officials are being ‘witch-hunted’ by the corrupt officials, the honest people who are functioning within in the system would lose faith in the system. “If the few honest people in the system are witch hunted, people will lose faith in the system. So, somebody has to put the foot down and say I will not allow this to happen. That was the intention,” he said. However, the recent social media post by Mr. Haasan was prompted by the alleged social media campaign by DMK to set a ‘narrative’, according to Mr. Kumaravel. “Today, DMK supporters have been hyper-active and setting a narrative that we are a ‘B’ team of BJP. Time and again, we have opposed the BJP. It is about the message that is being sent to the honest people within the system,” he said.  I have been the ‘A’ team since the age of six. I am reiterating this for the corrupt heir apparents of A1  Kamal Haasan Founder, Makkal Needhi Maiam||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/probe-against-surappa-kamal-hits-back-at-critics/article33275299.ece
08 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Medical counselling for SC, SCA, ST categories from December 11||Medical counselling for SC, SCA and ST seats will be held from December 11 to 14, the Directorate of Medical Education has said. On December 11 and 12, counselling will be held for students in the SC category with ranks ranging from 261 to 1,076. On Dec 14, counselling will be held for SCA candidates, starting from community rank 20 to 275. The last session will begin at 2 p.m. on the same day for ST candidates who have secured ranks from 4 to 102. On Monday, counselling opened with 537 vacancies in government medical colleges and ended with 413 vacancies after 124 seats were allotted. In self-financing medical colleges, there were 532 vacancies in the morning. At the end of the day, 102 seats had been allotted and 430 seats remained vacant. While 10 of the 107 vacant seats were filled in government dental colleges as many as 16 of the 982 vacancies were filled in self-financing dental colleges. Of the 556 candidates invited for counselling, 480 participated and 76 remained absent. A total of 252 seats were allotted while six candidates opted out. As many as 219 candidates chose to be wait-listed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/medical-counselling-for-scsts-from-dec-11/article33275147.ece
08 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC directs TN govt. to reply to cases challenging ban on online rummy||The Madras High Court on Monday directed the State government to file its counter affidavit to writ petitions filed by three online games portals challenging the constitutional validity of an Ordinance promulgated on November 21 banning all games, including rummy, played with stakes on the cyberspace. Third Division Bench of Justices R. Subbiah and C. Saravanan asked Advocate General Vijay Narayan to make sure that the counter was filed before December 21 and served in advance on senior counsel Mukul Rohatgi and P.S. Raman representing the petitioner companies Junglee Games, Play Games and Head Digital Works. Game of skill Mr. Raman told the court that the Supreme Court had categorically held that rummy was a game of skill and not a game of chance. The legal position laid down about five decades ago continued till date with various High Courts also taking a similar view. He wondered how such a game could suddenly become illegal when it's played online. In his submissions, Mr. Rohatgi said online rummy was the same as offline rummy. “There is no betting or gambling at all. It is not like three card flush,” he told the Bench and contended that the State government could enact a law or promulgate an Ordinance only if gambling or betting was involved in it and not otherwise. On the other hand, the AG urged the court to grant him two weeks since the State wanted to place a lot of materials to show the serious consequences of permitting online games played with stakes. He said children in the age group of 15 to 17 and also the youth were spending their entire savings and time in playing such games. Special senior counsel for the State government A.L. Somayaji contended that a game played with stakes could never be termed to be a game of pure skill. The writ petitions, falling under the first Division Bench's portfolio, were listed before the third Bench since Chief Justice Amreshwar Pratap Sahi did not take up judicial work on Monday. Hence, Justice Subbiah told the petitioners’ counsel that he would adjourn the cases by a day if they were very particular about obtaining an interim stay on the operation of the Ordinance. The counsel replied that it would be better if the State was directed to file its counter at the earliest since the companies were losing several crores of rupees.  There is no betting or gambling at all. It is not like three card flush  Mukul Rohatgi  Senior counsel||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-directs-tn-govt-to-reply-to-cases-challenging-ban-on-online-rummy/article33275297.ece
08 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||IMA calls for suspension of services on Dec. 11||As part of the agitation against “mixopathy”, the Tamil Nadu branch of Indian Medical Association (IMA) has called for withdrawal of services other than for COVID-19 and emergency essential services by all hospitals, nursing homes, scan centres, and clinics from 6 a.m. to 6 p.m. on December 11. On Tuesday, as part of the nationwide protest called by association, the Tamil Nadu branch would stage demonstrations in groups of 20 in various places across the State by involving doctors, students, and other speciality associations from 12 noon to 2 p.m. In a statement issued on Monday, IMA TN president C.N. Raja and secretary A.K. Ravikumar demanded withdrawal of a notification of the Central Council of Indian Medicine approving MS (General Surgery) degree for Ayurveda graduates allowing them to perform 58 kinds of surgeries including technically competent procedures such as cholecystectomy, cataract and plastic surgeries. The association also demanded withdrawal of four committees formed by NITI Aayog with the aim of one country one system of medicine - medical education, practice, public health and medical research to formulate means for integration of all systems of medicine - AYUSH and modern medicine into one system, which is a ‘mixopathy’ system. “Mixopathy” would be detrimental to the public, and the sanctity of individual system of medicine would get diluted and lost. Medical science was moving towards professionals with micro specialisation such as hepatologist, retina surgeon and micro surgeon, and the current policy of “mixopathy” degrades the Indian healthcare system, it said. The association questioned what would happen to pre-anaesthetic medication and whether AYUSH has its own anaesthesia drugs and procedures. What about post-operative care and infection control, and surgical equipment? the association questioned. “It is obvious that AYUSH is dependent on modern medicine doctors, anaesthesia, antibiotics and equipment to perform modern medicine surgical procedures. It fails the test of logic behind such irresponsible initiative placing thousands of patients at risk,” the association said in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ima-calls-for-suspension-of-services-on-dec-11/article33275190.ece
08 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Policeman thrashed for harassing woman||A policeman of the M.G.R. Nagar police station, was arrested for trying to behave inappropriately with a woman near the Vadapalani bus stop on Monday. He has also been suspended. A senior official of the police said the Vadapalani police was alerted after a group of people thrashed a policeman who tried to behave inappropriately with a 20-year-old woman working as a nurse at a private hospital in Vadapalani. On enquiry, it was found that the accused was a policeman Raju, who was working at the MGR Nagar police station. After finishing his duty, he had had a few drinks, and tried to harass the woman who was waiting for a bus at the Vadapalani bus stop. On seeing the incident, commuters and other people waiting at the bus stop thrashed the policeman and handed him over to the Vadpalani police station. The Vadapalani police filed a case and arrested the policeman, who has been admitted at a hospital due to injuries caused by the public thrashing. The policeman had also been suspended, a police official added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/policeman-beaten-up-for-harassing-nurse-in-vadapalani/article33275140.ece
08 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC directs State to reply to cases challenging ban on online rummy||The Madras High Court on Monday directed the State government to file its counter affidavit to writ petitions filed by three online games portals challenging the constitutional validity of an Ordinance promulgated on November 21 banning all games, including rummy, played with stakes on the cyberspace. Third Division Bench of Justices R. Subbiah and C. Saravanan asked Advocate General Vijay Narayan to make sure that the counter was filed before December 21 and served in advance on senior counsel Mukul Rohatgi and P.S. Raman, representing the petitioner companies Junglee Games, Play Games and Head Digital Works. Mr. Raman told the court that the Supreme Court had categorically held that rummy was a game of skill and not a game of chance. The legal position laid down about five decades ago continued till date with various High Courts also taking a similar view. He wondered how such a game could suddenly become illegal when it was played online. In his submissions, Mr. Rohatgi said online rummy was the same as offline rummy. “There’s no betting or gambling at all. It is not like three card flush,” he told the Bench and contended that the State government could enact a law or promulgate an Ordinance only if gambling or betting was involved in it and not otherwise. On the other hand, the AG urged the court to grant him two weeks since the State wanted to place a lot of materials to show the serious consequences of permitting online games played with stakes. He said children in the age group of 15 to 17 and also the youth were spending their entire savings and time in playing such games. Special senior counsel for the State government A.L. Somayaji contended that a game played with stakes could never be termed a game of pure skill. The writ petitions, falling under the first Division Bench’s portfolio, were listed before the third Bench since Chief Justice Amreshwar Pratap Sahi did not take up judicial work on Monday. Hence, Justice Subbiah told the petitioners’ counsel that he would adjourn the cases by a day if they were very particular about obtaining an interim stay on the operation of the Ordinance. The counsel replied that it would be better if the State was directed to file its counter at the earliest since the companies were losing several crores of rupees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-directs-state-to-reply-to-cases-challenging-ban-on-online-rummy/article33275493.ece
08 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Virtual music week to mark Beethoven’s anniversary||To celebrate Beethoven’s 250th anniversary, Goethe-Institut, Chennai, is hosting an assortment of virtual music events on its website and social media platforms. They have collaborated with the BTHVN2020 Beethoven Anniversary Society, Digital Concert Hall of the Berlin Philharmonic Orchestra from Germany. Anil Srinivasan, pianist, composer and music educationist will be curating, conceptualizing and presenting these programmes as a part of the event ‘250 years of Beethoven - an exuberance in 2020’ to be held from December 11 to 17. As a part of the virtual music week, ‘Be Music BEEs 2020’, a western music contest for South Asian musicians, is also being conducted. It is aimed to encourage more musicians to share their talents and revel in the music of Beethoven. Grand finale The grand finale to the virtual music week will have ‘An Evening with Beethoven’, which is a musical, historical and emotional walk-through of Beethoven’s works by Anil Srinivasan. A detailed schedule of the digital events, which include virtual exhibitions, concerts, piano recitals and digital showcases will be announced soon and will be available on the websitewww.goethe.de/chennai  As a part of the virtual music week, ‘Be Music BEEs 2020’, a western music contest for South Asian musicians, is also being conducted||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/virtual-music-week-to-mark-beethovens-250th-anniversary/article33275134.ece
08 December 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Veranda acquires Chennai Race in Rs. 100-crore deal||Kalpathi Group-owned Veranda Learning Solutions has acquired Chennai Race, a coaching institute for banking and competitive exams, for a deal valued at over Rs. 100 crore that includes stock and earn-out. The new entity will be called Veranda Race, and will initially offer result-oriented online training programmes for banking, Staff Selection Commission and the Tamil Nadu Public Service Commission exams. Suresh Kalpathi, CEO, Veranda Learning Solutions,  told The Hindu that this is the first vertical that the firm has announced and more verticals are on the cards. “IAS coaching, coaching for Chartered Accountancy and the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) are also under consideration and each of these would be separate verticals,” he said. By December 2021, Veranda Race is also planning to launch course content in 11 Indian languages. “We will first start with the southern States and then we will go into Hindi, Marathi, Odiya and Bengali. In the next 12 months, we plan to be there in all national languages,” Mr. Kalpathi said. Bharath Seeman, promoter of Chennai Race and head of Veranda Race, said, “The Veranda Race programmes are set for rollout nationally, targeting a revenue of Rs. 50 crore in the first year. By the end of 2021,we would be training around 50,000 to 60,000 students across India.” He added, “The key metric to assess our success will be the number of students getting jobs, which is the main goal of this venture.” During the financial year 2019-20, Chennai Race recorded sales of about Rs. 45 crore and has trained over 2,00,000 students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/veranda-acquires-chennai-race-in-rs-100-crore-deal/article33275605.ece
08 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Ahead of political plunge, Rajinikanth meets brother||Days after hemade an announcementregarding his entry into politics, actor Rajinikanth travelled to Bengaluru on Sunday to visit his brother. Photographs shared by his PR team showed the actor meeting with his brother Sathyanarayana Rao, and seeking his blessings, ahead of his political plunge. Earlier this month, the actor had said that he would be floating a political party in January to contest in the upcoming Tamil Nadu Assembly elections. An announcement regarding a decision on this is expected to be made on December 31. ‘Spiritual politics’ Mr. Rajinkanth had said that in the upcoming elections, he expected to achieve a big victory with the support of the people. “Spiritual politics will emerge in Tamil Nadu that will bring transparency and honesty... politics with no corruption and one that is free of caste and religious bias,” he had said earlier in a tweet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rajinikanth-meets-brother-seeks-blessings-ahead-of-political-plunge/article33275082.ece
08 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||IMA calls for suspension of services on Dec. 11||As part of the agitation against “mixopathy”, the Tamil Nadu branch of Indian Medical Association (IMA) has called for withdrawal of services other than for COVID-19 and emergency essential services by all hospitals, nursing homes, scan centres, clinics from 6 a.m. to 6 p.m. on December 11. On Tuesday, as part of the nation-wide protest called by IMA, members of the State branch would stage demonstrations in groups of 20 in various places across the State by involving doctors, students, and other speciality associations from noon to 2 p.m. In a statement on Monday, IMA State unit president C.N. Raja and secretary A.K. Ravikumar demanded withdrawal of a notification of the Central Council of Indian Medicine approving MS (General Surgery) degree for Ayurveda graduates allowing them to perform 58 kinds of surgeries, including technically competent procedures such as cholecystectomy, cataract and plastic surgeries. The association demanded withdrawal of four committees formed by NITI Aayog with the aim of one country one system of medicine — medical education, practice, public health and medical research to formulate means for integration of all systems of medicine — AYUSH and modern medicine into one system which is a mixopathy system. “Mixopathy” would be detrimental to public, and the sanctity of individual system of medicine would get diluted and lost. Medical science was moving towards professionals with micro specialisation such as hepatologist, retina surgeon and micro surgeon, and the current policy of “mixopathy” degrades the Indian healthcare system, it said. The association questioned what would happen to pre-anaesthetic medication and whether AYUSH had its own anaesthesia drugs and procedures. What about post-operative care and infection control, and surgical equipment? the association questioned. “It is very obvious that AYUSH is dependent on modern medicine doctors, anaesthesia, antibiotics and equipment to perform modern medicine surgical procedures. It fails the test of logic behind such irresponsible initiative placing thousands of patients at risk,” the association said in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ima-calls-for-suspension-of-services-on-december-11/article33275155.ece
08 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Truck kills police constable||A police constable was killed and an inspector injured on Sunday, after a truck collided with a barricade next to them. Constable Ayyanamoorthy and Inspector Anandan, among others, were undertaking vehicle checks, on the Chennai-Bengaluru Highway, at Arapakkam, Ranipet district. While doctors declared the constable brought dead, the inspector is being treated for injuries. Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Monday condoled the constable’s death and announced a solatium of Rs. 15 lakh for his kin. He directed officials to grant a government job to one of his family members.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/truck-kills-police-constable/article33275120.ece
08 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Man drowns trying to save daughter||A 55-year-old man drowned while trying to rescue his 11-year-old daughter, who was swept into the sea by a huge wave at the Thiruvanmiyur beach on Monday. His daughter was rescued by fishermen in the locality. The police said K. Balaji, a resident of Vellai Amman Koil Street, Shastri Nagar, had taken his daughter to play at the Thiruvanmiyur new beach. While his daughter was playing on the shore, a huge wave swept her into the sea. Hearing her cries, Balaji sought the help from the local fishermen and went to rescue her by boat. While they rescued the girl safely, the father drowned, the police said. The Thiruvanmiyur police found the body floating a few kilometres from the site of the incident after a few hours. It was taken to the Government Kilpauk Medical College Hospital for a post-mortem examination, the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-drowns-trying-to-save-daughter/article33275143.ece
08 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Man killed in accident near Puzhal||A 78-year-old senior citizen was killed after he was hit by a speeding two-wheeler near the Puzhal prison on Sunday evening. A police official said Azhagappan, of Puzhal, was driving a moped, when a speeding two-wheeler rider hit his vehicle from the rear. In the impact, the victim, who was not wearing a helmet, was thrown from his vehicle and sustained severe head injuries. The victim died while being taken to the Government Stanley Hospital. The two-wheeler rider, identified as Srinath, 19, also sustained injuries and is undergoing treatment at the Government Stanley Hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-killed-in-accident-near-puzhal/article33275170.ece
08 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Ambassador of France calls on CM||Ambassador of France to India Emmanuel Lenain called on Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami at the Secretariat in Chennai on Monday. An official release termed it a courtesy call. Later, a Memorandum of Understanding was signed between Industrial Guidance and Export Promotion Bureau of Tamil Nadu and the Indo-French Chamber of Commerce and Industry on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ambassador-of-france-calls-on-cm/article33275152.ece
08 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Probe against Surappa: Kamal hits back at critics||After giving a clean chit to Anna University Vice-Chancellor Surappa on Saturday, Makkal Needhi Maiam founder Kamal Haasan on Monday slammed his critics saying that the intention behind labelling him a “Sanghi” or as part of someone’s “B” team even when he stands for the right cause was to uphold corruption. Mr. Haasan posted on Twitter that it was no surprise that those who had been exploiting and “eating the wealth of Tamil Nadu” will get together when there is a threat to their business. “After all, aren't they the one who filled Tihar and Parappana Agrahara jails?” he asked. Mr. Haasan said that he was the “B” team of Mahatma Gandhi whose message was the life that he lived. “I have been the 'A' team since the age of six. I am reiterating this for the corrupt heir apparent of A1,” he said. MNM party sources said that Mr. Haasan released the video only after meeting Mr. Surappa a few weeks ago and listening to his side of the story. C.K. Kumaravel, MNM’s general secretary, said that while honest officials were being “witch-hunted” by the corrupt officials, the honest people who were functioning within in the system would lose faith in the system. The recent social media post by Mr. Haasan was prompted by the alleged campaign by DMK to set a “narrative”, according to Mr. Kumaravel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kamal-hits-back-at-critics-over-probe-against-v-c-surappa/article33275160.ece
08 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Govt. permits 100% seating in buses||The Tamil Nadu government on Monday permitted State Transport Undertakings and private bus operators to run buses at 100% capacity. The order will benefit buses operated/engaged by industries to transport their employees, and those run by schools and colleges to transport students. A G.O. issued in this regard by Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam also permitted State transport undertakings to increase the number of bus services, based on demand, in adherence to standard operating procedures (SOPs). Earlier, buses of State Transport Undertakings were allowed to operate only at 60% of seating capacity. The decision follows a request by the Transport Department, which stated that both State Transport Undertakings and private transport buses needed to operate at 100% capacity, without standees, as there was an expected increase in the number of commuters. It also sought permission to increase the number of services, based on demand. The State government, had, earlier, allowed State Transport Undertakings to operate public transport bus services, throughout the State, from September 7.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-permits-100-seating-in-buses/article33275119.ece
08 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Governor contributes Rs. 1 lakh to fund||Governor Banwarilal Purohit on Monday inaugurated the Armed Forces Flag Day Fund collection for 2020-21, with his contribution of Rs. 1 lakh. During his address, through the All-India Radio and Doordarshan, the Governor remembered the supreme sacrifices made by the Armed Forces personnel to protect the country’s territorial integrity. He also appreciated the generosity of the people of Tamil Nadu for contributing Rs. 35.56 crore, in 2019-20, towards the Armed Forces Flag Day Fund. Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami also contributed to the fund on Monday, by handing over the amount to Collector R. Seethalakshmi, at his camp office in Chennai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/governor-contributes-rs-1-lakh-to-flag-day-fund/article33275122.ece
08 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Panel for caste census a stunt, says Stalin||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Monday said the Commission constituted by the AIADMK governemnt to undertake caste-wise census was an election stunt. “The AIADMK did not make the announcement earlier even though it has been in power for ten years. It has now constituted a commission, and it is nothing but an electoral stunt,” he told reporters after distributing relief materials to people in his Kolathur constituency. Mr. Stalin said the DMK alliance was in better shape than it was during the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. “In the 2021 Assembly election, we will perform better than the 2019 Lok Sabha polls,” he said. In a separate statement, he expressed the DMK’s support to the Bharat Bandh, in favour of the agitating farmers in Delhi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/panel-for-caste-census-a-stunt-says-stalin/article33275128.ece
08 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Minor fire in Nadigar Sangam office in Chennai||A minor fire broke out on the office premises of the South Indian Artistes’ Association (SIAA) at Habibullah Road in T. Nagar on Monday. Fire and Rescue Services personnel from the Teynampet station immediately put out the fire.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/minor-fire-in-nadigar-sangam-office-in-chennai/article33275148.ece
08 December 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||TNAU bags 8th place in ICAR ranking||The Tamil Nadu Agricultural University (TNAU) improved its all-India ranking to eight in 2019, moving several places from the 33rd position it held a year earlier. A release from the University quoting Vice-Chancellor N. Kumar said after the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) had placed the institution in the 33rd position, it took several steps to improve the ranking. The University improved on the quality of education, transformed students’ outlook giving them a holistic education, attracted more funds from external funding agencies, increased the number of qualitative publications among others, the release said. The result of it was that the University was placed eighth among 67 agricultural institutions, fourth among State agricultural universities and first among southern agricultural universities. The result had also reversed the gradual decline in ranking as the University that was in the seventh position in 2016 slipped to 27th in 2017 and 33rd in 2018. The release further said the Mr. Kumar also held a series of meetings with technical directors to assess the where the University lacked and identify grey areas and added that the improvement in ranking would help receive more funds for research.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tnau-bags-8th-place-in-icar-ranking/article33275175.ece
08 December 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Chairman, manager of private hospital held||The Central Crime Branch (CCB) of Coimbatore City Police arrested the chairman and manager of a private hospital based on the complaint lodged by the owner of the building. Umashankar, who was running Chennai Hospitals, Coimbatore, on Sathyamangalam Road and its manager Maruthavanan, were arrested and remanded in judicial custody on Friday. According to CCB officials, Ramachandran, owner of Ellen Hospital, had leased the building to Umashankar where the latter was running Chennai Hospitals. Ramachandran’s complaint said that Umashankar defaulted payment of Rs. 4.95 crore, made a move to sell the property worth Rs. 100 crore and threatened him when he approached them regarding the default in payments. On Friday, unidentified persons removed the name board of the hospital. They also allegedly misbehaved with the patients and the staff in the presence of the police. House burgled Unidentified persons broke into a house near Nehru Nagar in the city and took away 50 sovereigns of jewellery and Rs. 2 lakh on Saturday. The theft took place at the house of Sathishkumar, a resident of Pushpam Garden at Nehru Nagar. Police said that Sathishkumar was running a software firm. He and his wife left for office on Saturday morning and on their return in the evening, they found the front door broken open. Peelamedu (Crime) police have registered a case and a special team has been formed to crack the case.. Residents associations and citizen forums in and around Peelamedu have raised concern over the continuing housebreaks and robberies in the area. The Peelamedu (Crime) police team, headed by Inspector A. Shobana, has not made any breakthrough in a case of triple murder for gain that took place in 2003.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chairman-manager-of-private-hospital-held/article33275183.ece
08 December 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore city’s traffic violation detection system integrated with Parivahan Sewa||The integration of feeds on traffic violations detected by the automatic number plate recognition cameras at select signals in Coimbatore city with the Central Government’s Parivahan Sewa through the National Informatics Centre (NIC) has been completed. e-challan According to officials involved in the integration works, violators are now getting text messages on the e-challan through Parivahan Sewa. However, this is in a trial stage. Coimbatore City Police and people’s initiative ‘Uyir’, which contributed the advanced cameras and other systems, had also approached the NIC to fine-tune the e-challan message. The messages delivered in the initial stages of the trial period had issues in the display of Tamil font and payment link not working. The e-challan is generated for traffic violations such as signal jumping, triple riding and riding two-wheeler without helmet that are detected at 20 select traffic junctions on Avinashi Road, Tiruchi Road, Mettupalayam Road, Sathyamangalam Road and Palakkad Road. As violations detected by the cameras are integrated with Parivahan Sewa, the generation of e-challan will be applicable to vehicles from other States too. A senior police officer said that payment of pending fines, if any, would become must for processes such as change of vehicle ownership at the time of selling a vehicle or related works at the motor vehicle department offices. Even before the integration of the system with the Government’s national portal, the smart cameras generated e-challans worth Rs. 20 crore from January to November this year. However, fines to the tune of Rs. 3.6 crore were paid by violators. “Motorists can check the Parivahan website or m-Parivahan mobile app to know if any fine has been levied against their registration number,” said the officer. ‘Create awareness’ K. Kathirmathiyon, member of district road safety committee, said that awareness should be created about the functioning of the violation detection system before the official launch of the initiative. “Many vehicle owners are not aware that fines are pending against them. This could be because their mobile numbers are not updated. Some persons seem to have been repeating the same violations,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-citys-traffic-violation-detection-system-integrated-with-parivahan-sewa/article33275185.ece
08 December 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Man held on murder charge||The Kinathukadavu police in Coimbatore rural on Monday arrested a 36-year-old man on charges of murdering his cousin. A. Krishnakumar from S. Mettupalayam near Kinathukadavu was arrested for murdering his cousin B. Nandhakumar (29), also a resident of the same locality. Police said that Nandhakumar was initially admitted to Coimbatore Medical College Hospital as an accident victim and the fatal assault by Krishnakumar came to light after his death on Sunday. Nandhakumar had difference of opinion about Krishnakumar’s sexual orientation. Nandhakumar also accused Krishnakumar of spoiling the reputation of the family. The two had an argument over the same issue at S. Mettupalayam bus station around 7 p.m. on Saturday. In the course of the argument, Krishnakumar assaulted Nandhakumar with a sickle on his head. Nandhakumar was taken to a polyclinic in the locality from where he was referred to CMCH. The relatives allegedly informed the hospital administration that he was injured in an accident and a case was registered based on a complaint lodged by his father, said the police. However, Nandhakumar died around 3 p.m. on Sunday. During investigation, police found out that Nandhakumar was injured after being assaulted by his cousin. Krishnakumar, a driver by profession, later confessed to the police of assaulting his cousin. Police altered the case and arrested Krishnakumar on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-held-on-murder-charge/article33275184.ece
08 December 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||PF Adalat on December 10||Nidhi Aapke Nikat (PF Near You) will be conducted through webinar by the Regional Provident Fund Commissioner on December 10 at the EPFO Regional Office on Dr. Balasundaram Road, Coimbatore - 641 018. Subscribers and trade unions slot will be from 11 a.m. to noon and for employers (exempted and un-exempted) from noon to 1 p.m. EPFO members, employers and trade unions are hereby advised to furnish in advance the details of the grievance, if any, along with PF AC Number, UAN Number, name of the establishment, mobile number and e-mail ID to the PRO- EPFO on or before December 9. The link will be sent to the respective e-mails at the time of webinar, a release from PF office said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pf-adalat-on-december-10/article33275171.ece
08 December 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||BU distance education exam postponed||Bharathiar University School of Distance Education has postponed the May/December 2020 examination for final year undergraduate, postgraduate, MCA, MBA, Executive MBA, B.Ed., P.G. diploma and diploma programmes. A release said the University would hold the examination starting January 20, 2021 to enable candidates to register and appear online for the examination. The University had earlier scheduled the examination to start on December 14.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bu-distance-education-exam-postponed/article33275295.ece
08 December 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Dak Adalat on December 11||The Department of Posts will conduct a divisional-level Dak Adalat on December 11 at the office of the Senior Superintendent of Post Offices, Good Shed Road, at 11 a.m. A press release from the Department said complaints regarding money orders, registered and speed posts, insured articles would be taken up at the meeting. The complainant should present details such as article number, date and office of booking, full address of the sender and recipient.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dak-adalat-on-december-11/article33275179.ece
08 December 2020||COLOMBO,TAMIL NADU||India, Sri Lanka to hold talks on fishing issue||India  and Sri Lanka will soon hold a bilateral virtual meeting to address the recent concerns related to the long-standing Palk Bay fisheries conflict, officials said on Monday. Following a meeting of the High Commissioner of India to Sri Lanka, Gopal Baglay, with the Sri Lankan Minister of Foreign Relations, Dinesh Gunawardena, and the Minister of Fisheries, Douglas Devanada, on Monday, the Indian High Commission said in a statement that Mr. Baglay “expressed hope that the next meeting of the bilateral mechanism, on matters pertaining to fishermen, could soon be arranged online”. In addition to reviewing ongoing bilateral discussions, including on “terrorism, radicalisation, organised crime and drug trafficking” — which were also taken up during National Security Adviser Ajit Doval’s visit to Colombo last month — the High Commissioner stressed the need to continue to deal with matters related to fishermen and their boats, in a humanitarian manner, the official statement said. The development comes at a time when fishermen in Sri Lanka’s Tamil-majority Northern Province have reported an increase in the number of Indian fishing trawlers spotted along the Sri Lankan coast — a concern that has dominated their post-war recovery period. Bilateral talks between government officials and fishermen leaders have proved futile, as Tamil Nadu fishers’ leaders have not agreed to the demand of the northern Sri Lankan fishers’ leaders to stop engaging in bottom-trawling. However, following their persistent calls for a solution and several agitations, Sri Lanka, in 2017, banned bottom trawling, known to be a destructive fishing method that virtually scoops out the ocean bed, severely impacting the marine biodiversity. The following year, Colombo slapped stiffer fines on foreign vessels fishing in the island nation’s territorial waters. While the measures, especially the fines, deterred Indian fishermen to some extent, the Sri Lankan Navy arrested 450 fishermen in 2017, on charges of poaching, but just 156 in 2018. The problem resurfaced earlier this year. Northern Sri Lankan fishermen said they noticed an increase in Indian trawlers in their waters again.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/india-sri-lanka-to-hold-talks-on-fishermen-issue/article33275127.ece
08 December 2020||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||Team assesses damage caused by cyclone in Cuddalore||The four-member inter-Ministerial team, deputed by the Centre to Cuddalore district to assess the damages caused by Cyclone Nivar and the torrential rains, toured various parts of the district on Monday. The team, headed by Ashutosh Agnihotri, Joint Secretary, Ministry of Home Affairs, began its visit at Thiruchopuram near Cuddalore. The team met five farmers who faced complete yield loss in 26.70 hectares, where they had raised paddy. They interacted with representatives of farmers’ outfits to have first-hand knowledge of the impact of the rains and inspected agricultural fields submerged in rainwater. Principal Secretary to Government Gagandeep Singh Bedi and Collector Chandra Sekhar Sakhamuri informed the team that over 45,000 hectares were submerged in the rains. The incessant rains had inundated paddy fields and also damaged horticultural crops, including banana. The district administration elaborated on the loss that had been estimated on agricultural and horticulture crops, roads and other infrastructure, due to rains with the help of a photo exhibition. The team also inspected the Cuddalore-Chidambaram Road at Periyapattu that was partially damaged due to overflowing rainwater. ‘An eyewash’ K.V. Elangeeran, president of Cauvery Delta Farmers Federation charged that the team’s visit was only an eyewash. “The team seemed to be focusing on damages in urban areas rather than getting details of the problems faced by farmers due to crop loss. The team should have actually visited Chidambaram and Kattumannarkovil taluks, where extensive crop loss has occurred due to the rains, but it did not”, he also said. The team later inspected damages to river banks and crops submerged in rainwater at Kalingikuppam and Sorappur in Villupuram district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/central-team-assesses-damage-caused-by-cyclone-in-cuddalore/article33275167.ece
08 December 2020||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||Appeal to move to relief centres||Widespread rain lashed the district in the last 24 hours following which the district administration has appealed to the people residing in low-lying areas to immediately move to safer places and relief centres, said Collector M Vijayalakshmi here on Monday. The Cyclone Burevi and the post-rain had halted normal life in many pockets. The dams in the district, including the Athur dam, were receiving copious inflow that the storage level was rising steadily. The Athur dam, which is the prime source of drinking water to the Dindigul City limits, has a storage capacity of 23 feet. In the rain, the dam, which was almost empty, now had 20 feet water, PWD officials said. After the Parapalaru dam in Oddanchatram had reached the maximum level, the revenue officials asked the people in the area to move over to the Government Girls Higher Secondary School without any delay. A press release stated that the people were informed through the public address system to take their belongings, especially original documents such as Aadhaar card and ration card among others from their dwellings. Meanwhile, the farmers in Sirumalai blamed the PWD engineers for their apathy. Despite repeated appeals to desilt the channels, the officials had failed to do so, they said. As a result, rainwater could not reach the tanks and was wasted, they alleged. For instance, the farmers said that the Rangasamudram tank was almost empty as the water could not reach. Two years ago, the PWD officials claimed to have desilted it, but only removed the bushes in the tank, but failed to clear the waterway to the tank. After widespread rain, the officials decided to suspend vehicle movement on the ghat section from 7.30 p.m. on Monday till 6.30 a.m. on Tuesday as a precautionary measure. Though there were no landslides or reports of tree fall on Monday, the officials opined that it was a precautionary step to halt the vehicles during night. The power was suspended in many areas in the hill station and in the interior areas, residents said and added that the copious rain along the western ghats had resulted in steady flow in the falls. Following heavy rain, the tourist arrival had turned thin and many reservations in the hotels and resorts were either cancelled or postponed. The temperature slipped further down that many residents in Vilpatti, Perumalmalai and suburbs experienced a cold wave.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/widespread-rain-in-dindigul-district/article33275279.ece
08 December 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Widespread drizzle across Erode district||Widespread drizzle occurred in several parts of the district in the afternoon and evening on Monday. Most of the places witnessed cloud cover throughout the day and the average temperature remained around 27 degree Celsius. Though normal life was not affected, two-wheelers and pedestrians faced difficulty due to the drizzle, forcing them to take shelter in bus stops and in shops. Rainfall recorded on Monday morning at various places were Nambiyur 35 mm, Modakurichi 31 mm, Chennimalai 27 mm, Elanthakuttai Medu 26.4 mm, Gobichettipalayam 22.2 mm, Kavindapadi and Gunderipallam 20 mm each, Kodiveri 19 mm, Bhavani 14.2 mm, Perundurai 14 mm, Varattupallam 13.4 mm, Sathyamangalam 10 mm and Kodumudi 10.4 mm. Meanwhile, rain and water seepage from the Lower Bhavani Project canal brought in copious water to the Sadayampalayam tank that was filled to the brim. Rain in catchment areas and the seepage led to the seven-acre tank reaching its maximum storage capacity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/widespread-drizzle-across-erode-district/article33275307.ece
08 December 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Red-headed bunting sighted at Gobichettipalayam||Bird watchers had recently sighted Red-headed bunting, a migratory bird from Europe, at Gobichettipalayam. G.J.C. Moulie sighted the bird on Bungalow Pudur Road on December 6. “It is always easy to miss a bunting as it mostly resembles a Baya weaver or a Warbler from behind and from distance. But, something struck me that this is not the usual size of a Weaver and doesn’t carry the plumage of a Warbler either and hence decided to take a few clicks”, said Mr. Moulie. With the help of the local birding community friends and enthusiasts V.R. Sundaramanikkam and D. Veramani, he was able to identifiy the species. This species breeds in Afghanistan, Iran, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Mongolia, Russia, Central Asian Russia, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan and during winters, the bird arrives at various parts of the country and was first sighted in the State in 2018. The bird breeds in open agricultural land and lays three to five eggs in a nest in a tree or bush and consumes seeds and insects. Gray-necked bunting was also spotted in and around Gobichettipalayam suburban areas recently and this raised a lot of attention and among birding enthusiasts, who flock these areas to record it, said Mr. Moulie. Though common, beautiful birds Baillon’s crake, Red Avadavath, Golden oriole, Cinnamon bittern, both yellow and black, and Streaked weaver were sighted in the areas during the current season.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/red-headed-bunting-sighted-at-gobichettipalayam/article33275244.ece
08 December 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Harvested kidneys transplanted||Two private hospitals in the city transported kidneys harvested from donors in Madurai and transplanted them in two men here on Saturday. In the first case, a 53-year-old man of the district was suffering from renal failure for the last one year and was undergoing dialysis at Kalyani Kidney Care Hospital at Erode. He had registered with the Tamil Nadu Organ Sharing Registry in 2019. After a man in Madurai was declared brain dead, the patient was informed of the organ availability. On December 5, the patient was admitted to the hospital and the harvested organ reached the hospital at 10 p.m. M. Prabhakar, managing director and transplant surgeon of the hospital, said a team of doctors transplanted the organ successfully. In the second case, the kidney of a 61-year-old man in Madurai was successfully transplanted in a 67-year-old man at Abirami Kidney Care Hospital. T. Saravanan, managing director of the hospital, said the harvested organ was transported in two-and-a-half hours from Madurai and was transplanted. He said usually kidney transplantation was done for persons below 50 years, but they carried out the transplantation in a 67 year old.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/harvested-kidneys-transplanted/article33275304.ece
08 December 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Erode medical college students stage protest||Over 80 second-year students of the Government Erode Medical College and Hospital at Perundurai staged a sit-in protest on the college premises, urging the State government to reduce fees and fix the fee on a par with the other government medical colleges. Holding banners, the students said an annual fee of Rs. 13,610 was collected from students in the 23 government medical colleges in the State whereas this college collected Rs. 3.85 lakh as fee. They said the college was earlier IRT Perundurai Medical College and Hospital and was converted into a government medical college two years ago, but the fees was yet to be reduced. “While the students pay less in other government medical colleges, we have to spend around Rs. 6 lakh including hostel fee a year in this college,” they said and wanted the fees reduced and to be on a par with other government medical colleges. Parents also joined the protest with the students and raised slogans. Police personnel instructed the students and parents to take up the issue with the college administration after which the protest was withdrawn.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/erode-medical-college-students-stage-protest/article33275308.ece
08 December 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Saplings planted in memory of Nel Jayaraman||As many as 3,500 saplings were planted on 12 acre of farmland in memory of Nel Jayaraman, a farmer and consumer activist, who dedicated his life to restoration of traditional paddy varieties, and died at the age of 54 on December 7, 2018. The drive, organised by Cauvery Calling, saw over 100 people, including youth, college students, Isha volunteers and members of voluntary organisations, planting saplings at the land belonging to K.S. Rajeshwaran of Sivalingapuram village in Kulur Panchayat in Modakurichi Taluk here on Sunday. Commercially valuable timber such as teak, blackberry, sandalwood and rosewood were planted on the farmland. S. Nallasamy, president of Keel Bhavani Vivasaigal Nala Sangam, inaugurated the drive at the farmland during which tributes were paid to Nel Jayaraman. Tamilmaran, Cauvery Calling field co-coordinator, Tamil Nadu, said Mr. Jayaraman had offered invaluable support to Isha’s ecological initiatives including Project GreenHands and Sadhguru’s river revitalisation effort. He had raised and distributed 10,000 timber saplings to farmers free of cost in partnership with Project GreenHands. The plantation drive in Erode was part of ‘Maram Nada Virumbu’ platform launched by Cauvery Calling to involve the general public in sapling plantation. The platform offers first-hand experience in sapling selection and planting to the public. The drive was the second event after the initiative was launched on November 18 at Karur district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/saplings-planted-in-memory-of-nel-jayaraman/article33275303.ece
08 December 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||power shutdown||Due to various works, power supply will be disrupted in the following areas from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. on December 8 . Sivagiri sub-station: Sivagiri, Vettuvapalayam, Kagam, Konthalam, Minnapalayam, Pazhamangalam, Veerasangili, Kallapuramkottai, Vilangattuvalasu, Ellakadai, Kulavilakku, Karakkaattuvalasu, Kovilpalayam, Aayaparappu, Moolapalayam, Parapalayam, Vilakethi, Kuttapalayam, Amman Kovil, Thoppapalayam, Perumparappu, Vadugapatti, 24 Velampalayam, Pannaikinaru, Karattupudur, Kollangkovil, Kattupalayam, Rakamapudur, Ichipalayam, Muthayanvalasu, Karukkampalayam, Unjalur, Othakadai and Vadakku Pudupalayam.  Thirunagar Colony and Vairapalayam line: V.C.T.V. Road (Malligai Arangam), Thirunagar Colony, Madhavakadu, Cheran Nagar, Krishnampalayam, Kamala Nagar, Kakkan Nagar, VGP Nagar, RKV Nagar, Rajagopal Thottam, Ramamurthy Nagar, MGR Nagar and Vandiyuran Kovil Street.  Villarasampatti line: Veerapampalayam Pirivu, URC Nagar, VIP Golden City, Veerapampalayam, Jai Krishna Garden, Ruby Garden, Thottathur Pudu Colony, Ishwarya Garden, Karaparai, Moorthy Nagar, Keerthi Garden and Kaikatti Valasu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-shutdown/article33275305.ece
08 December 2020||ERODE/Salem,TAMIL NADU||Colleges reopen complying with SOP||Many colleges in the district, including medical, engineering, agriculture and arts and science, were reopened, complying with Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) on Monday. Students were screened for fever and were given hand sanitisers before entering the campus, wearing masks. Classrooms, verandah, and office rooms were disinfected and students were instructed not to remove their masks or gather at one place on the premises. At classrooms, two students were allowed to sit in each table and were instructed to ensure personal distancing while in classrooms and at laboratories. Students with fever were asked to report immediately to their class teacher or their head of department for medical examination. They were also asked not to exchange their mobile phones. Since attendance is optional, attendance in most of the engineering and arts and science colleges was less than 70%, Teachers said many students preferred to stay at home. A few groups of institutions opened their pharmacy and other medical courses while they had decided to open their engineering and arts and science colleges on December 10. “Operating buses on each route following personal distancing norms will be a great challenge,” said a coordinator of a private engineering college. In Salem, the government colleges and other major colleges were reopened. The temperature of the students was checked and they were provided with hand sanitisers. Vice-Chancellor of Periyar University P. Kolandaivel said the university’s constituent and affiliated colleges had been advised on the safety guidelines issued by the State government and hostels had been kept ready to accommodate students. COVID-19 care centres He said the college buildings that were used for setting up COVID-19 care centres were handed over earlier itself and those premises had been disinfected.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/colleges-reopen-complying-with-sop/article33275302.ece
08 December 2020||Karaikal,TAMIL NADU||Date extended||The Social Welfare Department has informed that the last date to apply for educational assistance meant for needy students has been extended till December 12. A press release issued by the Assistant Director of Social Welfare Department, Karaikal, said differently abled students, those belonging to socio-economic backward families and students of minority communities were eligible to apply.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/date-extended/article33275265.ece
08 December 2020||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||VCK cadre stage demonstration||Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi cadre staged a demonstration near Anna Statue here on Monday against the Central government’s reported move to slash the budget for post-matric scholarships to unifying it to include with the scholarships for minorities. Amid reports of the Centre seeking to replace the post-matric scholarships for Scheduled Castes, and Scheduled Tribes and minorities into a single scheme, the VCK led protest condemned the government’s proposed move. The protesters alleged that the move would whittle away the chances of higher education for the SC and ST students. The protests also come in the wake of Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami’s letter to the Prime Minister seeking a higher contribution by the Centre in the ratio of 60:40 for the scholarships. Earlier, the National Campaign on Dalit Human Rights had also slammed the Centre over the proposal. Similar protest was held in Dharmapuri.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vck-cadre-stage-demonstration/article33275309.ece
08 December 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Colleges pulsate with life after nine months||Colleges across Madurai district resumed physical classes for final-year undergraduate students on Monday after a gap of around nine months with COVID-19 safety precautions. At Madurai Medical College, physical classes resumed for all students, except for students who were admitted this academic year. Government Rajaji Hospital Dean J. Sangumani said the students were being permitted to attend physical classes only after they tested negative for COVID-19. “We distribute face mask to the students and ask them to wear it all the time. We have also provided hand washing facilities at several places on the campus. It is also ensured that physical distancing norms are followed in classrooms,” he said. Madurai Kamaraj University Vice-Chancellor M. Krishnan said all colleges had been instructed to strictly follow the standard operating procedure (SOP) issued by the government. “This week, students are being called to the university to attend their physical classes. Online examinations will be conducted for students from December 14,” he said. Only one student would be accommodated in each room at the hostel as per the COVID-19 safety precaution, he added. Staggered entry Principal of Sri Meenakshi Government College for Women S. Vanathi said the students were screened for fever before entering the college premises and were provided hand sanitisers. “Since the college has a single entrance, we asked students of science stream to come earlier than the arts students to prevent crowding at the entrance,” she said. Physical distancing norms were strictly followed inside classes as only two students were allowed to sit on each bench. Online classes would also be conducted for those students who could not come to the college, she said. Lady Doak College Principal Christianna Singh said the students were asked to attend physical classes only with their parents’ consent. “However, very few students turned up at the college on Monday. Only one student is presently staying at the hostel. The teachers are conducting online classes from the college due to poor attendance of students,” she said. Principal of The American College M. Davamani Christober said online exams were under way. Physical classes for final-year students would resume only after the examinations, he said.  Only one student will be accommodated in each room at hostel as a safety precaution M. Krishnan Vice-Chancellor Madurai Kamaraj University||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/colleges-pulsate-with-life-after-nine-months/article33275501.ece
08 December 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Mottamalai residents seek maintenance of houses||Members of Tamil Puligal Katchi petitioned the Collector here on Monday urging the district administration to undertake maintenance work at houses constructed by the government in 1992 at Mottamalai in Vilachery village. These houses are now in a damaged state. District secretary of the forum, M. Janaki, who is also a resident of Mottamalai, said free pattas were issued to 85 Scheduled Caste and Most Backward Class residents of Mottamalai in 1992. The government later built houses there. All these years, no repair work had been undertaken in any of these houses which were in a damaged condition. “The centring of the houses have been severely damaged. Whenever it rains, water seeps into the houses, making it unbearble to reside in them,” said A. Mookaiyya, a functionary of the forum. Several petitions had been submitted in the past six years to resolve the issue. However, no action had been taken, he said. Most of the residents were daily wage workers and agricultural labourers, who could not bear the expenses for repair the houses. “Large families reside in the houses and suffer the most during rainy season. Hence, the district administration must intervene to undertake maintenance work in these houses," said Mr. Mookaiyya. Street lights, taps Ms. Janaki said street lights and common public taps were not working. “Since gram sabha meetings are not conducted, these issues could not be discussed. Steps must be taken to address these issues too,” she said.  The centring have been severely damaged and whenever it rains, water seeps into the houses  A. MookaiyyaTamil Puligal Katchi functionary||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mottamalai-residents-seek-maintenance-of-houses/article33275503.ece
08 December 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Remove obstruction in supply channel, say Kombadi villagers||Residents and farmers of Kombadi village in Tirupparankundram block petitioned the Collector here on Monday, urging him to make efforts to remove obstructions made by villagers of neighbouring Nedumadurai on a supply channel. G. Thangam, president of Kombadi panchayat, said there were two tanks in their village - Keezhakanmoi and Melakanmoi. Under the Nilaiyur-Kambikudi irrigation channel project, a supply channel was constructed from Nedumadurai tank to fill water in tanks of Kombadi village in 2019 under the supervision of Public Works Department. “For many years, the tanks in Kombadi totally depended on rainfall. But water was filled in these two tanks last year, following the construction of the inlet channel,” he said. However, a month back, the residents of Nedumadurai obstructed the path of the inlet channel. Using an earthmover, they blocked the flow on 450 metres of the channel, said Mr. Thangam. “We showed the photographs of the obstruction to the Collector. In the next few days, water from the Vaigai will be discharged through Nilaiyur channel to fill other tanks. Hence, the authorities must clear the inlet channel to ensure free flow of water through it to the two tanks in Kombai village,” he said. “The storage of water in the tanks will help in irrigation of paddy, jasmine and vegetables cultivated in the area. In addition, it will help in increasing the groundwater level, thereby addressing the issue of water shortage,” said Mr. Thangam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/remove-obstruction-in-supply-channel-say-kombadi-villagers/article33275499.ece
08 December 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Madurai airport gets mobile command post vehicle||Madurai airport has received a mobile command post vehicle that will provide a safe shelter with advanced communication equipment to handle emergency situations at a place closer to a flight accident spot. Airport Director S. Senthil Valavan formally dedicated the vehicle, built at a cost of Rs. 43 lakh, here on Monday. “Presently the command centre can function only at the office at the airport building where communication equipment are available. But, with the mobile command post vehicle, the officials can move closer to an accident spot or during other emergency situations like hijack,” Mr. Senthil Valavan said. The vehicle will help in getting a clear ground situation and in expeditious relief work. It has a global positioning system and portable shelter tent. “Among the communication devices, it has a transreceiver VHF FM (base station) and VHF AM transreceiver system,” he added. Besides, it has a public address system with microphones and loudspeakers and hand-held public address system. The vehicle has a smart board with projector and LED display monitor for the officials to communicate. Digital cameras and night-vision binoculars would also available at the vehicle. “The generators and uninterrupted power supply system along with telescopic light mast will help us to work even at night,” Mr. Senthil Valavan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/airport-gets-mobile-command-post-vehicle/article33275272.ece
08 December 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||HC seeks data on autos||Activist ‘Traffic’ Ramasamy moved the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court yet again on Monday, seeking a direction to the State government to address problems caused by autorickshaws and share autorickshaws. He complained that norms were violated by the vehicle operators. In his petition, Mr. Ramasamy claimed that there were more than 35,000 autorickshaws plying in Madurai. Though they played a vital role in transportation of the public, they were violating norms - seats were modified to accommodate more people and when only three passengers were allowed, more than 10 people were transported. A Division Bench of Justices N. Kirubakaran and B. Pugalendhi put forth a series of queries to the State, including the one pertaining to the data on number of three-wheelers in operation in the State. The court sought to know the number of licences issued to autorickshaws and share autos, data on violations committed and action taken against them, total penalty imposed and suspension of licences.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-seeks-data-on-autos/article33275504.ece
08 December 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Farmers take part in field demonstration||The Agricultural College and Research Institute organised various events at Ayyanarpuram near here on Monday as part of World Soil Day celebration. The soil day theme, ‘Keep soil alive - protect soil biodiversity,’ and soil as a source of food, fodder, shelter and medicine were discussed. Field demonstrations on use of neem oil, waste decompoer and bio fertilizers were conducted. Over 150 farmers attended the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-take-part-in-field-demonstration/article33275497.ece
08 December 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Chamber extends support to farmers protesting in New Delhi||Tamil Nadu Chamber of Commerce and Industry extends support to farmers who are protesting in New Delhi demanding withdrawal of three agricultural laws passed by the Union government. A press release from Chamber president N. Jegatheesan said farmers were the backbone of Indian economy. Traders and commercial establishments were committed to the growth and livelihood of farmers. The Chamber stands in solidarity with farmers.       The POCSOSpecial Court here on Monday convicted a 50-year-old-man in a 2015 case and ordered him to undergo imprisonment till his natural death. The Court also imposed a fine of Rs. 2.45 lakh on S. Thangavel. He was found guilty to have lured five minor girls of his neighbourhood on promise of showing them cartoon clippings and sexually assaulted them. Based on the case registered by the All Women Police Station, Virudhunagar, the court awarded him jail till his natural death. The Court also ordered the State Government to give a compensation of Rs. 2 lakh each for the five victims.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chamber-extends-support-to-farmers-protesting-in-new-delhi/article33275280.ece
08 December 2020||Nagapattinam,TAMIL NADU||Rain causes further havoc to paddy fields in Nagapattinam||The worst fears of farmers in Nagapattinam district came true on Monday as there was no let up in the high intensity of rainfall that kept causing further inundation of paddy fields. Sirkazhi recorded the highest rainfall of 90.4 mm followed by Thalaignayar and Mayiladuthurai - 80.2 mm each, Manalmedu - 72 mm, Nagapattinam - 62.9 mm, Thirupoondi - 52.6 mm, Kollidam - 44 mm, Tranquebar - 42.5 mm, and Vedaranyam - 36.2 mm. As per the latest estimate of Agriculture Department, successive cyclones had caused complete damage to paddy crop raised under Samba and Thaladi seasons to the extent of 60,000 hectares. As per the department records, paddy has been raised in 1,,624 hectares. Breaches in water bodies at 172 places had caused the inundation. The Public Works Department had plugged the breaches with sand bags and casuarina poles. At a review meeting attended by State Ministers P. Velumani, C. Viayabhaskar, and O.S. Manian, the District Monitoring Officer C. Munianathan, Director of Town Panchayats S. Palanisami, Nagapattinam Collector Praveen P. Nair and Special Officer of Mayiladuthurai R. Lalitha deliberated on the remedial measures put in place, at the level of each block in the district. As on date, 191 relief camps were being operated to accommodate and feed 60,58 persons. A total of 1,001 huts were totally damaged, and 37 huts and 95 tiled houses were partially damaged due to the successive cyclones. The district has recorded loss of 252 livestock. Compensation was being provided to farmers for the loss of livestock, officials said. Earth moving machines have been brought in from other districts to expedite draining of water from the agricultural fields. The basic needs of the displaced people were being fulfilled as a priority, officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rain-causes-further-havoc-to-paddy-fields-in-nagapattinam/article33275267.ece
08 December 2020||Perambalur,TAMIL NADU||Use chemicals sparingly, farmers told||Farmers were advised by experts not to use more chemicals unless there was no alternative to protect soil biodiversity during an interactive workshop organised by the Cotton Research Station at Veppanthattai on Saturday, as part of World Soil Day celebration. K. Valliappan, Principal, Thanthai Roever Institute of Agriculture and Rural Development, explained to a gathering of farmers how a variety of organisms in the soil created healthy ecosystem to maintain bio-diversity, especially in cotton and maize farming. Associate Professor and Head, Cotton Research Station, Somasundaram, elaborated on the speciality of black soils owing to water holding capacity of 51 percent. Prof. Somasundaram said the black soil could be further enriched with organic manure. Increase of air, water and nutrients to plants in black soil, protection of top soil with mulch or cover crops, cotton and maize residue management, crop rotation and conservation agriculture were among the topics he spoke about on the occasion. K. Sakthivel, Assistant Professor, apprised the farmers about various kinds of green manure crops to keep the soil healthy. R. Raja Priya, Teaching Assistant -Agronomy, handled a session on organic farming and vermin composting. During the interaction session, Kandasamy, a farmer sought to know eco-friendly ways of controlling the problematic weed Cyanotis Cristata. Scientists explained that the mechanical weeding way could be followed. A drawing competition titled ‘Kind Bhumibol Adulyadej's Legacy in Soil Health Management’ was also conducted for students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/use-chemicals-sparingly-farmers-told/article33275251.ece
08 December 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||BJP winds up 72-hour dharna against Congress government||The Bharatiya Janata Party on Monday wound up the 72-hour agitation to highlight the failures of the Congress government in the Union Territory. Addressing workers, party in-charge for the Union Territory Nirmal Kumar Surana said the Congress government in Puducherry was a complete failure. None of the promises made to the people during the last Assembly election were implemented during the Congress party's five years in power, he said. The “diminishing” role of Congress in national politics would be reflected in the Union Territory. Highlighting the Congress' poor performance in Bihar Assembly elections, Mr. Surana said the grand-old party even pulled down the electoral chances of its alliance partner RJD. People have started dissociating from the Congress party due to its failure in providing proper governance in contrast to the “strong” leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, he said. Speaking on the occasion, nominated legislator and party president V. Saminathan said the party workers would strive to make the Union Territory Congress “mukt.” The voters would teach a fitting lesson to the Congress in the polls, Mr. Saminathan added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bjp-winds-up-dharna/article33275253.ece
08 December 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||U.T. plans to generate 30 MW of solar power||The Puducherry Electricity Department is planning to generate 30 MW of solar power from rooftop installations over the next two years as part of the “green energy-solar city” initiative. According to R. Murali, Superintending Engineer, individual residents can set up a small grid-connected solar power unit on rooftop of household buildings to generate electricity for personal use or for sale. The Government of India is extending financial support while the Puducherry government is providing technical support. The Department is in the process of finalising a list of electrical contractors who can install solar power plants atop individual household units. Recently, the Department had called for tenders from reputed electrical contractors to empanel a list of those who could execute rooftop power plants at low cost yet using quality and technically-approved materials, including solar panels. Rooftop solar plants can be set up for capacities ranging from 1 KW to 10 KW. Around 10 sq. m. of shade-free/open rooftop area is required for the installation of 1 KW solar power plant which can produce about 135 units per month on an average. For households, this means that they potentially save about Rs. 300 every month. Cost and life The estimated cost of a 1KW solar rooftop installation is Rs. 42,000. The Centre will provide 40 per cent subsidy on capital cost amounting to about Rs. 16,800 per KW. In effect, the beneficiary will end up paying only Rs. 25,200 per 1KW installation. The service life of a solar power plant is expected to be around 20 years or more, if properly maintained. The payback period would be about seven years. In other words, electricity from rooftop solar power plant would be virtually free of cost from the eighth year onwards.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ut-plans-to-generate-30-mw-of-solar-power/article33275612.ece
08 December 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||U.T. logs one death, 26 new cases||Puducherry registered one COVID-19 death and 26 new cases from 1,651 tests on Monday. The death of a 70-year-old man in the capital took the toll to 615. The cumulative toll in the capital is 503, followed by Karaikal (59), Yanam (45) and Mahe (eight). Mahe had the highest number of newly-infected cases (14), followed by Puducherry (nine) and Yanam (three). No new cases were reported from Karaikal. With 25 patients getting discharged after treatment in the last 24 hours, the Union Territory had 392 active COVID-19 cases.  Cumulative case load The Union Territory’s cumulative caseload was 37,270 cases while 36,263 patients have recovered to date. The test positivity rate was 1.57%, case fatality rate 1.65% and recovery rate 97.30%. Of the total 4.21 lakh samples tested to date by the Health Department, 3.79 lakh samples returned negative.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/one-death-26-new-cases-registered-in-puducherry/article33275276.ece
08 December 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Congress, DMK and Left parties extend support to farmers’ bandh||The units of the Congress, DMK, CPI, CPI (M), VCK and CPI (ML) have extended support to Tuesday’s bandh call given by farmers’ unions against the three new legislations brought by the Centre in the Union Territory. Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy in a virtual press conference on Monday said the party’s national leadership had already extended support. Congress alliance partners too have extended support to the farmers. “My wishes to the protesting farmers. The party would stand behind the farmers till the Centre withdraws the legislations,” he said. Recalling the letter written by him to the Prime Minister after the Parliament passed the legislations, the Chief Minister said the new farm laws would destroy the farming sector. The Centre was trying to spread the falsehood that they had provided better prices to farmers than the UPA, he charged. The Left parties had on Sunday met at the CPI office to discuss the protest strategy during the bandh. Addressing a joint press conference along with the PCC president A. V. Subramanian on Monday, CPI secretary A. M. Saleem said workers belonging to all parties would organise demonstrations at seven places in the Union Territory in support of the farmers' bandh call.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/congress-dmk-and-left-parties-extend-support-to-farmers-bandh/article33275610.ece
08 December 2020||Puducherry,TAMIL NADU||Submit report to Centre at the earliest, says Bedi||The inter-ministerial Central team assessing damage due to Cyclone Nivar held separate meetings with Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi and Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy on Monday. During her meeting, Ms. Bedi requested the team to submit their recommendation to Centre at the earliest so that U.T. administration could avail the financial assistance and carry out repair works. She also suggested a specific fund for civil works to avoid inundation in low-lying areas in future. Mr. Narayanasamy, in his meeting with Central team, reiterated the demand for an interim relief of Rs. 100 crore. The situation had changed after Nivar made its landfall. There had also been heavy rain due to Cyclone Burevi over the Gulf of Mannar. The Centre’s relief package had to consider that the unprecedented rainfall the region recorded after Nivar cyclone made the landfall. There has been damage to crops, roads, property and fishing equipment, the Chief Minister said. He also appealed to the Central team to recommend a financial assistance for finding a permanent solution for flooding during monsoon. The assistance would be used to widen the canals and shelter homes in the coastal areas. Meanwhile, an AIADMK delegation led by party secretary (West) Om Sakthi Segar submitted a memorandum to the team demanding Rs. 1 lakh per hectare for paddy farmers, Rs. 2 lakh per hectare for banana cultivators and Rs. 50,000 for vegetable farmers to compensate the loss. Cyclone Nivar had caused loss to the tune of Rs. 300 crore in U.T., the memorandum said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bedi-urges-team-to-submit-report-to-centre-at-the-earliest/article33275615.ece
08 December 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Counselling on Thursday||The final round of counselling/spot admissions for a few vacant seats in various UG/Vocational/Diploma courses at the Pondicherry University Community College is scheduled on Thursday at 11 a.m. Eligible candidates seeking admission (those who have not applied earlier through online and now desire so) can participate in the admission counselling. Candidates are advised to visit the college website (http://59.90.146.148/pucc/) for details regarding course-wise vacancy, eligibility criteria, fees, norms and guidelines to percolate in the counselling, a press note from the university said.  Those seeking admission and who have not applied earlier online and now desire to do so , can participate||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/counselling-on-thursday/article33275254.ece
08 December 2020||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Ramanathapuram fishermen urge govt. to assess damage, order relief||Members of various fishermen associations here have urged the State government to immediately take stock of the damage Cyclone Burevi caused to their mechanised boats, and help them with financial aid, so that they can start work again. After the weather forecast about Cyclone Burevi, the Fisheries Department had instructed fishermen to stay off sea. From December 1, they have been indoors, but the rain, accompanied by gusty winds has damaged many of the boats anchored near Mandapam and Thangachimadam. The meeting of the associations, which was presided over by general secretary V.P. Sesu Raja at Rameswaram on Monday, passed six resolutions. The members wanted the government to survey the damage to the boats, fishnets and immediately order compensation. They wanted the government to provide them with 1,000 litres of diesel free of cost and to replace the mechanised boat of a fisherman identified as Sarfudeen of Thangachimadam as the boat had been badly damaged. The meeting also passed a resolution stating that the fishermen had moved 116 mechanised boats to a safer place after the district administration directed them to move the boats to a shore near Mandapam. In the cyclonic influence, at least 40 of the anchored boats were damaged. The mechanised boats had to be urgently repaired, if the fishermen were to go fishing again. As the port had withdrawn the warning signal two days ago, the fishermen are ready to venture into the sea, but are unable to go. Hence, the government intervention will be helpful and timely, Mr. Sesu Raja said. Thanking the district administration for their timely alert to move the boats from Mandapam by lifting the Pamban rail bridge, he said that the government should provide loans to procure fishnets as these had been destroyed in the cyclone. Members at the meeting pointed out that instead of confining themselves to just giving compensation or relief due to the cyclone, the government has to earmark funds and build infrastructure at Kundukaal and other locations to facilitate the fishermen to safely anchor their boats in future, when such cyclones hit the region. The meeting decided to submit a memorandum to the Collector and also to the State government through the Fisheries Department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/repair-boats-damaged-due-to-cyclone-burevi/article33275163.ece
08 December 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Health dept. launches camps to control fever, communicable diseases||The health department has launched special camps for three days to control fever and other communicable diseases here. The camps will check for COVID-19 and dengue. Collector S.A. Raman on Monday flagged off the vehicles to conduct the camps at various parts of the district. According to health officials, the camps have 20 medical teams, 10 disease control teams and two fogging machines. The camps will be held at 60 places - 30 in the Corporation limits and 30 in rural areas. R. Selvakumar, Deputy Director of Health Services, said the medical team comprised a doctor, nurse, helper and driver and the disease control team had a team led by Health Supervisor. He said the teams would primarily visit places where clusters were reported and swab samples would be collected from persons who complained of symptoms. Blood samples would be collected from persons who complained of fever for dengue tests as dengue cases were also being reported now. He added that samples would also be collected randomly as part of the camp. Dr. Selvakumar said the disease control team would check for chlorination of water and take other disinfection measures.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/health-dept-launches-camps-to-control-fever-communicable-diseases/article33275311.ece
08 December 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Lorry owners allege corruption in new transport regulations||The Southzone Motor Transporters’ Welfare Association has extended support to the indefinite strike call made by State Lorry Owners Federation from December 27 and demanded that the Chief Minister should intervene in this matter. The organisation alleged that there was corruption behind the new notifications issued by the transport department in fixing reflective stickers, GPS devices and speed governors. G.R. Shanmugappa, general secretary of SIMTA, said, “laws that are not in practice anywhere else in the country are being instructed in Tamil Nadu. We wholeheartedly accept the new regulations introduced by the Centre. Despite court orders regarding installing speed governors and reflective tapes, the State government is not ready to implement it.” He added that they had moved a contempt of court petition in this regard. Mr. Shanmugappa said while the State government mandated installation of GPS device, it did not say how they would be monitored. “Nowhere in the country, speed governors with ISI trademark cost above Rs. 1,500. But here alone, it is costing upto Rs. 10,000. In Karnataka, owners are allowed to fix reflective stickers from any manufacturer, but in Tamil Nadu, the State government specifies respective companies and it costs above Rs. 6,000,” he said. Mr. Shanmugappa said despite repeated petitions with the Transport Minister and transport authorities, no action had been taken. The Chief Minister should intervene and address their grievances. He added that Tamil Nadu was facing huge revenue loss due to this. “Over 1.5 lakh trucks have got registered in Karnataka and this is a huge revenue loss for the State. Also, diesel price is Rs. 3 less in Karnataka. By reducing the taxes, Tamil Nadu government only stands to gain.” The organisation questioned why was not the State government imposing such regulations on trucks from other States. Trucks loaded with goods beyond permitted limits were being stopped on Karnataka border and fined. “But there is no such checks happening at the Hosur checkpost and trucks are allowed to pass after taking bribe,” he alleged. He added that while the Central Government had permitted taking Fitness Certificate from any RTO office, in Tamil Nadu it was demanded that it should be done at the RTO at the place of purchase. The organisation demanded removal of border RTO checkposts and extension of temporary registration period. He said that from 6 a.m. on December 27, trucks would keep off the roads in Tamil Nadu and trucks from other States would also not operate to the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lorry-owners-allege-corruption-in-new-transport-regulations/article33275255.ece
08 December 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Four of a family commit suicide in Salem||Four members of a family committed suicide at their house at Ammapet here on Monday. The deceased were identified as Murugan (38) a hair stylist, wife Gokila (35), sons Vasantha Kumar (16) and Karthik (12). According to police, the couple’s eldest son Madan Kumar (20) died a few months ago due to cancer. The family was depressed following the death of Madan Kumar, police said. Since the family did not step out of their house after a long time, neighbours informed the police. Ammapet rushed to the spot and found all the four lying dead. City Police Commissioner T.Senthil Kumar, Deputy Police Commissioner M.Chandrashekaran and other senior police officials visited the scene. Ammapet police have registered a case and are investigating. Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044- 24640050.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/four-of-a-family-commit-suicide-in-salem/article33275293.ece
08 December 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Rail passengers advised to check revised schedule||The Southern Railway has advised rail passengers to check the time schedule of their trains before journey as railways has revised the time schedule of long-distance trains. According to a release, the railways has revised the schedule of long-distance trains considering convenience of passengers. Passengers can check updated information on train timings, schedules, stoppages and running status at NTES and IRCTC websites and on IRCTC rail connect mobile application.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rail-passengers-advised-to-check-revised-schedule/article33275294.ece
08 December 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Mahaparinirvan Diwas observed||Authorities at Salem Railway Division commemorated the death anniversary of Dr. B.R. Ambedkar and observed Mahaparinirvan Diwas. According to a release, A. Annadurai, Additional Divisional Railway Manager, Salem Division, offered floral tributes to the portrait of Dr. Ambedkar at the Divisional Office here. Other branch officials also paid their tributes to the leader.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mahaparinirvan-diwas-observed/article33275312.ece
08 December 2020||SIVAGANGA,TAMIL NADU||‘Rain damages 117 hutments in Sivaganga’||At least 117 hutments were partially damaged and 13 were totally damaged in the rain during the Cyclone Burevi, said Collector P Madhusudhan Reddy here on Monday. Speaking at the weekly grievance meeting at the Collectorate, he said that the enumeration conducted by the officers from multi-departments revealed that largely the residents had stayed indoors during the rain between December 1 and 6. This had helped in the management considerably. The district had recorded 91.9 mm rainfall during the six-day period. The damage caused due to the rain had resulted in the death of 13 cattle heads, including three milch animals. On December 3, Booma Devi of Karaikudi had died after she reportedly came in contact with a live electric wire near her dwelling. Similarly, paddy crops on about 25 hectares had been damaged. As a precaution, 28 families (92 persons) were shifted to relief centres from their dwellings after the localities were found to be inundating in the rain, he said and added that compensation in the above issues would be made as per the government order. The Collector, during the grievance meeting, told the staff members to dispose of the petitions in a swift manner. Petitions which could be settled immediately, there should not be any recurrence. Similarly, those which required approvals of the higher-ups, the staff from the department concerned should inform the petitioners and ensure that they were not made to be present at the Collectorate week after week. “Kindly give a date to the petitioner and ensure that the matter is settled on that date,” he underlined. The Collector initiated the Flag Day collection by offering a contribution. He appealed to the people to liberally donate towards the Flag Day, which was intended for the ex-service personnel from the defence services. The officials said that the district had planned a target collection of Rs. 63.48 lakh for the year. District Revenue Officer K. Latha, Ex-Servicemen Welfare Association Assistant Director Varadarajan and others participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rain-damages-117-hutments-in-sivaganga/article33275284.ece
08 December 2020||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Farmers in Thanjavur demand Rs. 50, 000 per acre as compensation for crop loss||A section of farmers from Mela and Kizha Uloor hamlets have demanded compensation of Rs. 50,000 per acre from the State Government for loss of crop due to inundation. In a memorandum they submitted at the District Collectorate here on Monday, they claimed that well-grown paddy as well as transplanted crop have submerged as rainwater was stagnating on their fields due to the heavy rain that lashed Thanjavur district last week. Stating that they had spent around Rs. 30,000 per acre to raise the crop, they urged the District Administration to conduct a survey of their fields and provide a compensation of Rs. 50,000 per acre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-in-thanjavur-demand-rs-50-000-per-acre-as-compensation-for-crop-loss/article33275257.ece
08 December 2020||THENI,TAMIL NADU||TNRTP fund helps rural industries revamp, says Panneerselvam||The Tamil Nadu Rural Transformation Project, which has been conceptualised by the AIADMK government to improve the standards of living of people in rural pockets, has been fetching the desired results, said Deputy Chief Minister O Panneerselvam here on Monday. Distributing grants to the tune of Rs. 29.50 lakh to 12 producer groups, three enterprise groups and one farmers producing organisation from Periakulam and Uthamapalayam blocks in the district, he said that the covid-19 pandemic had halted the normal life since March. In a bid to revamp, the government had initiated a number of projects. Explaining that the Rural Transformation Project was implemented with the World Bank assistance, he said that the government had earmarked Rs. 300 crore for this project through which all the districts in the State were benefitting. Offering grants and subsidies under the covid-19 special fund, the people should utilise such opportunities and revive their businesses, Mr. Panneerselvam said and added that the government was ready to extend more sops to the needy. The officials said that the Rural Transformation Project in the State had given a fillip to the beneficiaries, including women from self-help-groups, widows, deserted women and skilled youth migrant returnees here. The covid-19 had resulted in many people migrating to their native places, where they could not engage in any economic activity. Hence, the government had identified such people and given them financial assistance. In Theni district, 24 persons, who qualified under the category, received Rs. one lakh each with which they could start any venture and survive, the Deputy CM said. Expressing satisfaction that he was able to help the beneficiaries in his capacity as an elected representative, he wished them to continue with their businesses without any interruption. He, however, cautioned the people to be guarded and take all preventive measures in view of the covid-19 pandemic. Though the covid-19 numbers appeared to be declining in Tamil Nadu, the people should follow the standard operating procedure as suggested by the Health department officials, he said and hoped that the State would become covid-19-free very soon. Collector M. Pallavi Baldev presided. DRO K Ramesh, Sub-Collector K Thackeray Subam, Joint Director (Agriculture) Alagu Nagendran, Deputy Director (Horticulture) M Pandi, Rural Transformation Project Executive Officer R Anandhi and Cumbum MLA S.T.K. Jakkayan participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tnrtp-fund-helps-rural-industries-panneerselvam/article33275270.ece
08 December 2020||TIRUCHENDUR,TAMIL NADU||‘Vetrivel Yatra’ draws to a close in Tiruchendur||Anti-national and atheist elements that attack and demean Hindu culture and its deities should be uprooted, just like Lord Muruga annihilated demons in this coastal holy town, Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said. Addressing the closing ceremony of the BJP State unit’s ‘Vetrivel Yatra’ on Monday, Mr. Chouhan said it was taken out to destroy anti-national and atheist forces of Tamil Nadu, and that it had achieved its objective with overwhelming support of the people. Though several hurdles were created, at various levels, to stop the ‘yatra’ midway, it had been completed successfully, he said. While the BJP government at the Centre had sanctioned a lot of development projects in Tamil Nadu, the DMK-Congress combine was carrying out a malicious campaign against the BJP. “Like in Bihar, those who align with the Congress will get drowned here as well, and Stalin [DMK president] should be cautious,” Mr. Chouhan said. National general secretary and in-charge of the BJP’s affairs in Tamil Nadu, C.T. Ravi, said the DMK, which was attempting to destroy Hindu culture, would be uprooted in Tamil Nadu. BJP State president L. Murugan said the ‘yatra’, which was taken out “to teach a fitting lesson” to those who degrading Hinduism and its deities, had crossed 4,000 km. The ‘yatra’ began at Tiruttani, on November 6, and concluded at Tiruchendur, after visiting six abodes of Lord Muruga and important temples across the State. “The BJP will become a major power, and will have a higher number of MLAs, in the State Assembly, in a few months from now. The National Democratic Alliance will form the government in Tamil Nadu after the next Assembly polls,” he said. BJP leaders Vanathi Srinivasan, Sudhakar Reddy, L. Ganesan, Nainar Nagenthran, C.P. Radhakrishnan, Pon. Radhakrishnan, H. Raja, K.T. Raghavan, K. Annamalai and Kushboo took part in the ceremony. Since permission was not given for the public meeting, citing pandemic-related curbs, the closing ceremony was held in a marriage hall.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vetrivel-yatra-draws-to-a-close-in-tiruchendur/article33275133.ece
08 December 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Butterfly conservatory reopens to moderate footfall||More than three weeks after it reopened after a gap of over seven months, the Tropical Butterfly Conservatory at Srirangam here, a major tourist attraction in the district, has seen a moderate footfall of visitors. Not letting their guard down in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic period, the Forest Department which established the sprawling conservatory, sandwiched between the Cauvery and Coleroon river, has been strictly adhering to the stipulated standard operating protocols issued by the government, say the department officials. The lush green conservatory which has been attracting several species of butterfly and birds inside the 27-acre facility was reopened for visitors on November 12 following relaxations announced by the State government which spelt out a detailed set of standard operating protocols to be adhered to by the Forest Department while allowing the visitors inside. Although the conservatory remained shut for visitors since March 17 a few days before the lockdown was officially announced, regular maintenance works continued inside. Forest Department officials say ever since the conservatory was reopened over three weeks ago, the visitors' footfall at this popular tourist attraction was 8,230 till December 6. The conservatory is closed for visitors every Tuesday. The visitors’ footfalls during the first two weekends post reopening was encouraging but it declined thereafter. On an average, the conservatory attracted about 400 visitors every day following its reopening notwithstanding the pandemic period. However, the figure was less as compared to any normal day during the pre-COVID-period when the visitors' footfalls used to be about 700 to 800 daily on an average, say the officials. The visitors’ footfall to the conservatory have been "moderate" since its reopening, say the officials. Visitors without masks were being asked to buy one at the entrance of the conservatory prior to being allowed inside. Heavy and widespread rains that lashed several parts of the State in the wake of the recent Nivar and Burevi cyclones saw a sharp drop in visitors footfall to the conservatory since late November, they say. The conservatory recorded yet another butterfly species recently taking the total number of species recorded to 121 so far. The latest species to be recorded was Banded Blue Pierrot. Officials say 94 bird species have also been recorded so far at the conservatory since it was inaugurated in November 2015. Some of the bird species recorded include Painted Stork, Scally Breasted Munia, Bayback Shrike, Tricoloured Munia and Black Naped Monarch.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/butterfly-conservatory-re-opens-to-moderate-footfall/article33275246.ece
08 December 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Colleges re-open, but many choose to remain at home||Colleges in the city that re-opened for final year students on Monday reported weak attendance as students chose to stay home. The students were to return to colleges after an eight-month gap due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Educational institutions were instructed by the State government to regulate the attendance of staff and students while monitoring safety measures, including disinfection, to prevent the spread of Covid-19. At some colleges, students were asked to attend practical classes while theory classes would continue to be taught online, according to the Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) issued. Meanwhile, in other colleges, students were asked to stay home as examinations were coming up. Many students of the Government Law College and the E.V.R. Periyar College attended classes on Monday. “We have appointed a monitoring committee to ensure students are wearing masks and maintaining personal distancing,” said M. Rajeshwaran, Principal, Government Law College, Tiruchi. A temperature check is done at the entrance, while sanitisers are placed in corridors, and at entrances of classrooms for students. Since the college had already been following a two-shift schedule, one for the three-year-course and one for the five-year course, only a total of 180 students were present at the college at any given time. Course and resource material were circulated to the students through WhatsApp, for those unable to attend classes. Students have been informed that the reference section in the library of the college would be closed while only borrowing from the library would be allowed. Meanwhile, in several other colleges, including Bishop Heber College and Holy Cross College, students were asked to stay home as their examinations were nearing. “The students were asked to prepare for the semester examinations which are to be held on December 9. After the Christmas holidays, a decision on the reopening will be taken,” a representative of Holy Cross College said. While colleges were ready to begin classes, many students said they were unable to attend. “We have received many letters and messages from students staying far away. They were unsure of attending classes. For them, we have ensured that all our classes are online, while special classes can also be scheduled for those missing practical classes,” said R. Sundararaman, Principal, National College.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/colleges-re-open-but-many-choose-to-remain-at-home/article33275259.ece
08 December 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Central region records 106 new cases and one death||The central districts recorded 106 COVID-19 cases for the viral infection on Monday. The only death reported was in Nagapattinam district, according to the official bulletin. A 60-year-old woman from Nagapattinam with a history of diabetes and hypertension succumbed to the infection at the Periyar Government Hospital in Mayiladuthurai. Tiruchi reported a sharp spike in the number of fresh cases with 41 new patients testing positive. Patients in the district were primary contacts, patients with a history of respiratory illnesses and local index cases. In Thanjavur 36 fresh cases were reported. Meanwhile, all other districts in the region reported below 20 fresh cases. In Nagapattinam, 19 patients tested positive among them were primary contacts and local index cases with no history of travel or contacts. In Pudukottai, 16 patients tested positive for the viral infection while in Tiruvarur 12 patients tested positive. Among them were local index cases and patients with symptoms of Influenza-Like Illnesses. Majority of the patients testing positive were asymptomatic, official sources said. In Karur, nine patients, including residents of Thogamalai, Thanthonrimalai and Gandhigramam tested positive for the viral infection. Inter-district travellers from Tiruchi too, reported positive. In Ariyalur, two COVID-19 cases were reported while in Perambalur no fresh cases reported||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/central-region-records-106-new-cases-and-one-death/article33275260.ece
08 December 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Intimidation of public for alms by some transgenders irks elders in the community||Intimidation of public for alms by a section of transgenders has apparently caused concern among elders in the community. A video clip being circulated on social media in which a representative of a transgender group alleges another section that had broken away from the 'jamaat' of resorting to violent acts, has generated a debate among activists on the way of life of the community that already struggles for survival as a fringe group. The speaker, in the video clip, goes on to describe the embarrassment caused to the transgender community as a whole by the bullying tactics bordering on shameful acts adopted by members of the other group to extract money from passengers and other sections of public in the Central Bus Stand area. “We all belong to the ‘jamaat’ in Tiruchi, and as per its rules, we try to ply our trade without troubling the public. But this group, which has broken away from the ‘jamaat’, is very rude, and heckles people for alms. They also verbally harass bus drivers and conductors, and threaten to break the windows of the vehicles. The group members have many criminal complaints against them” says the speaker in the video clip. ‘Jamaats’ where the young transgenders are expected to pay obeisance and a part of their earnings to the leader. generally don’t have any legal standing, and offer no protection to their members, said the activist. Senior members of the transgender community told The Hindu that taking to begging and prostitution for survival has left the third gender vulnerable to in-fighting, groupism and sexual exploitation. “Unless we get educated and trained for better jobs, reports of such anti-social activities will continue. More often, the police do not penalise the wrong-doers,” said a trans-woman activist who requested anonymity. Recently, a case was booked against three trans-women for alleged sexual assault of a transsexual boy in Tiruchi. The complaint lodged by Suji, another trans-woman from Tiruchi, under the guidance of Gopi Shankar, a representative of the National Council for Transgender Persons, which was initially turned down by the No.1 Toll Gate police, was registered after the intervention of Z. Annie Vijaya, Deputy Inspector General, Tiruchi range. The offenders were booked under Transgender Persons (Protection of Rights) Act 2019, and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/intimidation-of-public-for-alms-by-some-transgenders-irks-elders-in-the-community/article33275261.ece
08 December 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Railway workshop in Tiruchi crosses another milestone||The Golden Rock Railway Workshop here crossed yet another milestone when it recently turned out the 50th LHB (Linke Hofmann Busch) coach after periodic overhauling attention. Principal Chief Material Manager, Southern Railway, K. Shunmugaraj flagged off the 50th LHB coach at a function organised on the workshop premises recently. Chief Workshop Manager Shyamadhar Ram, officers, supervisors and staff were present on the occasion. The over 80-year-old workshop was vested with the responsibility of shop schedule attention of LHB coaches from 2018-19 financial year. During the 2018-19 fiscal, the workshop turned out three LHB coaches. In 2019-20, 18 LHB coaches were turned out. In the current financial year, the Golden Rock Railway Workshop has so far completed 29 coaches. The workshop has also completed overhauling of 300 FIAT bogies this year, a press release from the workshop said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/railway-workshop-crosses-another-milestone/article33275249.ece
08 December 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Mettur level||The water level in Mettur dam stood at 103.26 feet on Monday against its full level of 120 feet. The inflow was 6,297 cusecs and the discharge nil.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mettur-level/article33275263.ece
08 December 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Widespread rain triggers flood in Uppar Odai||A low pressure-triggered rain that lashed Thoothukudi and Tirunelveli districts on Sunday night has resulted in flooding in several parts of Thoothukudi. The drizzle that started around 7.30 p.m. in Tirunelveli and Palayamkottai on Sunday stopped around 9 p.m. and resumed after 10.30 p.m. As the relatively strong drizzle continued beyond midnight, Palayamkottai recorded 67.40 mm rainfall and Tirunelveli 38 mm. Rainfall recorded in the district was (in mm): Papanasam dam 45, Cheranmahadevi 36.40, Servalar dam 32, Ambasamudram 22, Manimuthar dam 5 and Nanguneri 1.50. As the southern parts of Tenkasi district too experienced good rainfall, all waterfalls at Courtallam had heavy flow on Monday. With storage level in Gadana, Ramanadhi, Karupppanadhi and Adavinainar dams nearing the maximum limit, the influx was discharged after rainfall in catchment areas. Rainfall recorded in the district was (in mm): Aayikudi 62, Adavinainar dam 58, Tenkasi 42.60, Sankarankovil 41, Karuppanadhi dam 31, Shencottai 26, Sivagiri 16, Gundar and Ramanadhi dams 15 each and Gadana dam 8. Thoothukudi once again enjoyed widespread rainfall on Sunday night and led to water stagnation in low-lying areas, forcing Corporation personnel to operate additional pumps to drain the water along WGC Road, Tooveypuram Main Road, Anna Nagar Government Employees’ Quarters, Boltonpuram, Ramasamypuram, VE Road, and George Road. As rainwater entered a few houses in Ramasamypuram and Boltonpuram quarters, the civic body took immediate steps to drain the water. The roof of the house of a labourer, Selvakumar, at Pucklepuram collapsed, but no one was injured. Northwestern and northern parts of the district received good rainfall with Maniyachi recording the maximum amount of 160 mm, followed by Vaippar (121), Kadambur (108), Kayathar (91) and Vilathikulam (67). The continuing rain was expected to boost rain-fed crops such as maize, sunflower, groundnut, chilly, green gram and black gram cultivated in the areas. Following good rainfall in Maniyachi, Kadambur and Kayathar, the Uppar Odai  flooded on Monday. Consequently, Bagyalakshmi Nagar, Ayyanar Colony and surrounding areas were marooned, while flood water entered a factory at Mela Thattapparai. The huge influx of water in Uppar Odai has jacked up the water level in Korampallam tank. As influx of water hugely increased, seven shutters of the tank were opened, leading to flooding of fields and salt pans along Tiruchendur highway. Collector K. Senthil Raj visited the relief centre at Fatima Nagar where the affected families from nearby areas had been kept. Rainfall recorded in others parts of the district was (in mm): Thoothukudi 54.80, Ottapidaram 53, Kovilpatti 41, Soorangudi 40, Ettaiyapuram 39, Kadalkudi and Keezh Arasadi 29 each, Kazhugumalai 26, Vedanatham 20, Srivaikundam 4 and Sattankulam 1. In Kanniyakumari, areas closer to the Western Ghats received good rainfall on Sunday night with Chittar I recording 87 mm of rainfall and Chittar II 73 mm. Rainfall recorded in other areas was (in mm): Balamore 64, Adaiyamadai 59, Mambazhathuraiyar 41, Aanaikidangu 37, Petchipaarai dam 33, Bhoothapandi 25, Nagercoil and Surulacode 12 each, Kannimar 11, Perunchani and Puththen dams 8 each, Mullankinavilai 7, Aralvaimozhi 6, Mayiladi 5, Kozhiporevilai and Mukkadal dam 4, Thuckalay 2 and Kottaram 1.20.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/widespread-rain-triggers-flood-in-uppar-odai/article33275651.ece
08 December 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Left parties hold demo against Farm Acts||Cadres of the Left parties staged a demonstration at Thatchanallur here on Monday in support of the protesting farmers in New Delhi and demanded repeal of the Farm Acts. The protestors from CPI, CPI (M) and CPI (ML) raised slogans in support of the farmers and urged the Union government to withdraw the “pro-corporate Acts”. While making the farmers as labourers, the Farm Acts would turn ranches into “hunting ground” of corporate firms. Hence, the Centre should withdraw the Acts, they said. When they tried to stage road roko after the demonstration, police arrested 36 of them and released them in the evening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/left-parties-hold-demo-against-farm-acts/article33275275.ece
08 December 2020||Tiruvarur,TAMIL NADU||Crop loss assessment in progress: Minister||Assessment of crop loss due to Cyclone Burevi is in progress in Tiruvarur district and initial assessment has indicated that nearly 14,000 families were affected due to the inundation caused by the cyclone, Food Minister R. Kamaraj said here on Monday. Mr. Kamaraj who inspected the affected areas in Thiruthuraipoondi and Muthupettai areas along with Minister for Higher Education and Agriculture K. Anbazhagan said 42,764 persons from 14,118 families residing in areas vulnerable to flooding were accommodated in 211 rescue and relief camps in the district. Health camps Food and other requirements were being provided to them, he said. Health check-up camps were also being conducted at the camp sites as well as the affected villages. So far waterlogging in 54,627 hectares of cultivated fields have been reported and partial or full damage to 1,606 dwelling units have been brought to the notice of the district administration, he said. About 132 heads of cattle were also reported to have perished in the heavy rain, the Food Minister said. The final figure of loss could be ascertained only after completion of the ongoing assessment, the Minister added.  42,764 persons from 14,118 families residing in areas vulnerable to flooding have been accommodated in 211 rescue and relief camps in Tiruvarur district R. Kamaraj Food Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/crop-loss-assessment-in-progress-says-minister/article33275189.ece
08 December 2020||Tiruvarur,TAMIL NADU||IN BRIEF||An Interactive Chess Training Camp organised by the Oil and Natural Gas Corporation, Cauvery Asset in association with the Thiruvarur District Chess Association for the benefit of chess enthusiasts of Tiruvarur and surrounding districts culminated on Monday. Around 80 chess players from the Delta districts participated in the two-day virtual camp in which the ONGC Chess Team including Grandmaster Vidit Gujarathi, Indian Chess Team captain, Grandmaster K.Sasikiran, Arjuna Awardee and Grandmaster Koneru Humpy interacted with the participants. The programme aimed to motivate and guide young chess enthusiasts included lectures, game analyses and simultaneous display, an ONGC release said.     District Collector D. Rathna initiated Flag Day donations on Monday. The target of Flag Day collections this year has been set at Rs. 25.86 lakh. Last year, against the same target, a collection of Rs. 26.4 lakh was made, a press release said.     Readers Circle attached to the District Employment and Training Centre will offer free online training for aspirants of Group IV exam and SBI Probationary Officer exam from December 9. Aspiring trainees can contact the Centre over phone: 0429-228641 / 9499055914 or through email: decgcalr@gmail.com on December 8, a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/in-brief/article33275264.ece
08 December 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Despite incessant rain, visitors flock to tourist spots||Tourist spots in the Nilgiris reopened on Monday to a flurry of tourists. Rain continued to lash the region, for the third consecutive day, leading to low visibility along major roads, restricting tourist movement to newly-reopened tourist spots. Popular tourist locations run by the Tourism Department, and those run by eco-development committees (EDCs), formed by the Forest Department, reopened, with protocols in place to control the spread of COVID-19. Locations such as the Ooty Lake and Boat House, Pykara Lake, Doddabetta Peak, Ninth Mile Shooting Spot and the Kodanad Viewpoint stayed open. The Nilgiris Collector J. Innocent Divya inspected locations, including the Doddabetta Peak, on Monday. Speaking to reporters, Ms. Divya said that nine places run by EDCs too had reopened, including the ones in Gudalur, and urged tourists to wear masks at all times during their visits. “Many people take off their masks to take photographs. We urge them to immediately put on their masks after taking pictures to control the spread of COVID-19,” said Ms. Divya. There was a minor complication with the reopening of the Ooty Lake and Boat House, when shopkeepers at the Boat House got into an argument with officials, demanding a better place to put up shops. The police, who were called to the spot, said there were around 48 shops at the Boat House, and officials had marked out a portion of the area for the shops to be set up. Officials said that talks would be held over the next few days and a solution would be found. The Boat House was opened to tourists after 1 p.m.  Many people take off their masks to take photographs. We urge them to immediately put on their masks after clicking pictures J. Innocent Divya Collector, The Nilgiris||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/despite-incessant-rain-visitors-flock-to-tourist-spots/article33275126.ece
08 December 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Forest Department dismisses torture claim made by adivasi||The Forest Department has dismissed claims made by an adivasi that he was tortured along with nine others, by officials who had detained them for questioning in connection with the death of five wild dogs in the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve (MTR). A video is being widely shared on mobile messaging applications of a resident of Achakarai, identified as Samiyappan, alleging that he was tortured by forest officials at the Anaikatti forest guest house. He alleged that the 10 persons who were detained were beaten and tortured into confessing to their role in thedeaths of the wild dogs in the MTR. Of the 10 who were detained,three people were arrested, while two others were fined for various wildlife-related offences, including stealing deer meat from the kill of other carnivores in the reserve. It has been alleged that Samiyappan then consumed poison and attempted suicide. He has since been admitted to hospital and is expected to make a full recovery. Responding to the allegations, Field Director of MTR, K.K. Kaushal, said that the 10 men were detained on suspicion of being involved in a poisoning event that led to the death of five wild dogs, as well as thesuspicious death of a tigressmore recently. Mr. Kaushal dismissed allegations of torture, stating that all proper procedures were followed while questioning the 10 suspects, out of which five people were released without any action taken against them. ‘Habitual offender’ “We are awaiting the analysis of the stomach contents of the tigress to ascertain whether the animal died due to poisoning. In this case, Samiyappan is one of the prime suspects, as he is a habitual offender implicated in other wildlife crimes,” said another forest official. “We have spoken to the village head and have told him that the three suspects should produce themselves if required in the future. Mr. Samiyappan is making these false allegations to exert pressure on the Department to drop the investigations against him,” he alleged. Meanwhile, tribal rights activists working in the region said that a proper investigation should be conducted based on the allegations made by Samiyappan.  (Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050)   We are awaiting analysis of stomach contents of the tigress to ascertain whether it died due to poisoning Forest official||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/forest-department-dismisses-claims-of-torture-against-suspects-in-wild-dogs-poisoning-case/article33275292.ece
08 December 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Jail term for man till his natural death||The Special Court for POCSO Act cases here on Monday convicted a 50-year-old-man in a 2015 case and ordered him to undergo imprisonment till his natural death. The Court also imposed a fine of Rs. 2.45 lakh on S. Thangavel. He was found guilty to have lured five minor girls of his neighbourhood on promise of showing them cartoon clippings and sexually assaulted them. Based on the case registered by the All Women Police Station, Virudhunagar, the court awarded him jail till his natural death. The Court also ordered the State Government to give a compensation of Rs. 2 lakh each for the five victims.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/jail-term-for-man-till-his-natural-death/article33275287.ece
08 December 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Final year classes reopen in 2 colleges||Final year students came with enthusiasm to the two Arts and Science Colleges in the district that reopened on Monday after eight months. More than 75% students turned up at Madurai Kamaraj University Constituent College at Sattur and Government Arts and Science College in Sivakasi. “With the semester exams only a week away, the students have turned up in large numbers to clear all their doubts,” said Principal of Government Arts and Science College, Sivakasi, N. Gandhimathi. The college that has 12 undergraduate courses has final year students in 10 courses and five post-graduate courses. “We have started the classroom teaching for all the 10 final year UG courses and five final year PG courses. For first and second year students, the online classes are continuing,” she said. Principal of the MKU Constituent College M. Muthukumar said that final year students of all five UG courses had shown eagerness to attend the classes on the college premises. Stating that the standard operating procedures announced by the government was being followed, he said that the students were using masks. Their body temperature was checked and sanitiser was given before they were allowed into the classrooms. As against five students usually sitting in a bench, only three students are allowed now. “Wherever, the student strength is higher, we have made them to sit in two classrooms,” Mr. Muthukumar said. In Sivakasi college, the library and auditorium were used as classrooms to maintain social distancing. “It was good to meet all our friends after a long time,” said S. Bharati, a final year B.Com student. She said that though online classes were useful during the lockdown period, understanding commerce sums was a problem for many,” she said. Online classes were not that much interactive as classroom room learning. For B. Saritha, a Tamil student, there was too much domestic distraction in attending online classes. “At times, my I lost my concentration on classes as I had to take up domestic chores,” she said. Besides, both the students felt that they could share their feelings with their friends only when they meet them in person. Not only students, but teachers were also equally eager to meet the students. “One of our teacher walked straight into our classroom to meet us even before the working hours,” said R. Mathankumar, a Mathematics student. A few students had struggled for months to get a mobile phone to attend online classes, he said. Similarly, network issues also often cropped up. “There are only a few more months left in our college life. We hope to catch up with some of the best moments of our life in this period,” he said. The students complained that the TNSTC buses were not accepting the old bus passes. “The conductor said that he did not get any instruction to accept the passes,” Mathankumar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/final-year-classes-reopen-in-two-colleges/article33275286.ece
08 December 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||DMK, AIADMK cadres resort to effigy burning||Caustic remarks made by Minister for Dairy Development, K.T. Rajenthra Bhalaji, against Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam leaders on Sunday led to a series of tense moments in various parts of the district with cadres of both the rival Dravidian parties taking to streets to burn effigies on Monday. Police had to resort to lathicharge in Rajapalayam when cadre of both the parties pelted stones at each other. A few cadres on both sides who were injured in the incident got treated at the Government Hospital in Rajapalayam. When over 100 cadre of the DMK, led by the party MLA, S. Thangapandian, and Tenkasi MP, Dhanush M. Kumar, tried to burn an effigy, the ruling party cadre objected to it. This snowballed and end up in stone pelting. Police personnel, led by Deputy Superintendent of Police, M. Nagasankar, chased them away with mild force. DMK north district secretary Thangam Thennarasu said that his party cadres were agitated over the “indecent” remarks by the Minister. “He has made it a practice to make such indecent comments and there was a spontaneous reaction by the DMK cadre across the district,” he added. Mr. Thennarasu said that Mr. Bhalaji was deliberately repeating this to incite law and order problem. However, Mr. Bhalaji said that he was only retaliating for the derogatory comments made by DMK leader A. Raja against Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami and former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa. Effigy and portraits of leaders from rival parties were burnt and at various towns. Hundreds of cadres of both the parties were arrested and released later.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rival-dravidian-parties-take-to-the-streets/article33275252.ece
08 December 2020||December 08 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Final year students return to college amid safety concern||When V. Saranya started out from her house near Gudalur, the Nilgiris, to the Government Arts College, Coimbatore, she carried a message that her parents had given her – stay safe and take COVID-19 precautions. For, almost eight months after lockdown, the final year B.Sc. Botany student was returning college to resume studies and meet classmates. The State Government had reopened colleges for final year students Monday onwards. “My parents cautioned me against violating social distancing norms, particularly while feeling joyous on seeing friends,” she said. On arrival at the campus, her parents had called her to check if there were safety measures in place and that she wore a mask. But prior to that, her parents had also spoken to her class tutor, she added. The same was true of final year M.Sc. Botany student M. Sugandhan, who was apprehensive about travelling by bus from his hometown, Gobichettipalayam. Principal K. Chitra said the college management knew that the parents would be apprehensive. Therefore, it had taken all precautions like making compulsory the wearing of mask and allowing into the campus only those who had one, installing sanitiser dispensing facilities at a few places and asking only one-half of a class to be present if the strength was high. Monday saw the college ask only the science students to return to colleges and go straight to the lab to complete practical classes as it had been conducting theory on digital platform. At the PSGR Krishnammal College, the management had asked students to return only for their model and end-semester examination, which it had scheduled starting December 10, said Principal S. Nirmala. As for practical classes and practical examination, the college had scheduled those for January 2021, she added. Several colleges in the district adopted similar practices to ensure that students were safe and that teaching-learning continued one-way or the other, without any disturbance Bharathiar University Vice Chancellor P. Kaliraj said the University had already told colleges to make flexible the classes and practical sessions. This was for science students. As for arts and humanities students, there would be no disruption as their theory classes were going online, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/final-year-students-return-to-college-amid-safety-concern/article33275178.ece
08 December 2020||December 08 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Left parties stage protest in support of farmers||Members of the Communist Party of India and Communist Party of India (Marxist) staged a protest here on Monday in support of the farmers protesting in New Delhi. Over 300 people, including 70 women, participated in the protest. They demanded repeal of the three farm laws. The protesters crossed the barricades placed by the police and staged a road roko. All those arrested were released later in the day. The party members staged a protest in Pollachi recently. Coimbatore MP P.R. Natarajan will take part in a protest to be staged at Annur. Similar protests will be held in Mettupalayam, Sulur, and Sultanpet on Wednesday. As part of the Bharat Bandh on Tuesday, a section of auto rickshaws, tourist vans and taxis are not expected to operate. Some of the shops may also down shutters, sources in the parties said. Meanwhile, Opposition parties led by the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam have urged people in all walks of life to support the Tuesday’s strike in support of the farmers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/left-parties-stage-protest-in-support-of-farmers/article33275181.ece
08 December 2020||December 08 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||72 new cases in Salem||Salem district reported 72 new COVID-19 cases on Monday. According to health officials, 60 cases were indigenous including 25 in Salem Corporation limits. Twelve patients had returned from Erode, Krishnagiri, Namakkal and Villupuram. Of the 22 new cases reported in Namakkal, one patient had returned from Erode. Erode district reported 56 new cases, taking the district’s tally to 12,761. While 63 persons were discharged, 388 persons continue to be under treatment. Coimbatore district reported 124 new cases of COVID-19 and two deaths on Monday. The Health Department said that a 65-year-old man from the district died of the disease at the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital and another patient aged 88 succumbed to the disease in a private hospital. The two deaths took the district’s toll to 621. A total of 158 people from Coimbatore district returned to their homes after recovering from the disease on Monday. The district had 865 people under institutional care. Seventy-five people tested positive for COVID-19 in Tiruppur district on Monday, taking the number of active cases to 540. According to the Health Department, 71 persons recovered from the disease and were discharged from treatment centres on Monday. In the Nilgiris, 14 people tested positive for COVID-19 on Monday. The total number of confirmed cases in the Nilgiris stood at 7,593 and as many as 217 people were under treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/124-new-cases-two-deaths-in-coimbatore/article33275182.ece
08 December 2020||December 08 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Petition for removal of encroachments obstructing flow to tanks||A group of farmers from Moolaikkaraipatti on Monday submitted a petition urging the district administration to remove encroachments obstructing free flow of water into three tanks irrigating over 850 acres of land. Taanaarkulam, Achchampaadukulam and Chathrankuttikulam, all situated near Moolaikkaraipatti, received water from Manimuthar Dam. A four-km-long channel branching out from the main canal near Ambalam village took water released from the dam and rainwater to the three irrigation tanks. An individual from Sernthanaarkulam encroached upon the channel by laying huge pipes to divert the flow to his farms. “Though Moolaikkaraipatti experienced good rain thrice after September last, none of the three tanks have received water. Hence, officials should remove the illegal structures obstructing free flow of water into the tanks,” the farmers said. A differently abled youth P. Balasubramanian of Padappaikurichi near Palayamkottai submitted a petition seeking a retrofitted bike. Mr. Balasubramanian, certified as 70% disabled person, receives a few hundred rupees by stitching dresses with a hand-operated sewing machine. His wife is a beedi roller. “Since I use a stick to move around, it is difficult for me to get the material from my customers in our village and in hamlets nearby. If I am given a retrofitted bike sanctioned by the government for the physically challenged, it will be of great use for me,” said Mr. Balasubramanian, father of two children.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/petition-for-removal-of-encroachments-obstructing-flow-to-tanks/article33275648.ece
08 December 2020||December 08 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||District administration’s intervention sought in functioning of fair price shop||Alleging that there was political interference in running a fair price shop in Jambukandi, near Anaikatti, a resident submitted a petition at the weekly grievances redress meeting on Monday seeking the district administration’s intervention to ensure that the shop functioned. Mr. Murugavel alleged that a ruling party politician in-charge of the area, along with a few officials, interfered in the functioning of the fair price shop. They adopted several delaying tactic to ensure that the shop did not function and that the tribal people did not benefit out of it. Therefore, the Collector should issue an order for the shop to function , Mr. Murugavel added. M. Santha of Chinna Jambukandi Pengal Sangam also submitted a similar petition to the Collector. ‘Disburse wages’ Kovai Managaratchi Oppanda Thozhilalargal Iyakkam, an association of workers engaged on contract to the Coimbatore Corporation, has sought the district administration’s intervention in helping the workers who had not received their wages. In his petition, the association leader G.P. Marimuthu said persons whom the Corporation had engaged as night watchmen to guard its various establishments had not received their wages for the last three months. If the workers were to ask the agency that employed them on the Corporation’s behalf, the agency’s reply was that it was unable to pay because the Corporation had failed to pay. Therefore, in the interest of the workers, the administration should ask the Corporation to clear the dues, Mr. Marimuthu added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/district-administrations-intervention-sought-in-functioning-of-fair-price-shop/article33275186.ece
08 December 2020||December 08 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Seeking blessings||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/seeking-blessings/article33275118.ece
08 December 2020||December 08 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Many shades of grey||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/many-shades-of-grey/article33275495.ece
08 December 2020||December 08 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Sinking crops||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sinking-crops/article33275608.ece
08 December 2020||December 08 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||National award for college department||The Department of Microbiology of Ayya Nadar Janaki Ammal College (Autonomous), Sivakasi, was awarded the 'best department' at national level by Microbiologists Society, India. A press release said that the college excelled in parameters like publishing papers in indexed journals, bio-fertilizer production technology and applications, conducting medical camps, and issuing pamphlets to create awareness about their health issues. In addition, the department received funds from UGC and signed a memorandum of understanding with industries. Correspondent G. Abiruban and Principal C. Ashok congratulated the department for its achievement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/award-for-college-department/article33275288.ece
08 December 2020||December 08 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Fruits of labour lost to the wind||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fruits-of-labour-lost-to-the-wind/article33275655.ece
08 December 2020||December 08 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Two girls drown||Two minor girls, both sisters, were found dead in the Vaigai on Monday afternoon. The girls from Arapalayam went missing in the morning. After the Karimedu police launched a search for them, their bodies were found near Raja Mill Road bridge across the Vaigai. Karimedu police are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-girls-drown/article33275506.ece
08 December 2020||December 08 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Power shutdown||Power supply will be disrupted from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. on December 9 in the following areas; Arockiyasamy Road, Ramachandra Road, part of DB Road, Lawley Road, Thadagam Road, Cowley Brown Road, West Periasamy Road, TV Samy Road (West and East), Sir CV Raman Road, Azad Road, Subramanian Road, part of Sukirawarpet, TK Street, Mecricar Road, Ponniahrajapuram, EB Colony, part of Chockampudur road, Gopal Lay out, Samy Iyer New Street, Gandhi Park, part of Sullivan Street, Telugu Street, Edayar Street, part of Raja Sreet and Big Bazaar Street, PM Samy Colony, part of Sundapalayam road, Flower Market, Makkaliamman Kovil Street, Theppakulam street, Lingappachetty Street, Thiyagarajar Pudhu Veedhi, RG Street, Kamarajapuram, Devangapet Street, 1, 2 and 3, Syrian Church Road 1 and 2, Devanga High School Road, Shanmuga Theatre Road, RR Lay out, VVC Layout, Krishnasamy road and part of Chinthamani area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-shutdown/article33275172.ece
08 December 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||HDK right on tie-up with Cong.: Horatti||Former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy is right in his statement on regretting his alliance with the Congress, according to Basavaraj Horatti, MLC and JD(S) leader. “Many JD(S) leaders had advised Kumaraswamy not to enter into an alliance with the Congress. He did not listen to us. He accepted the advice by H.D. Deve Gowda not to have a tie-up with the BJP as it would send a message that the JD(S) was sharing power with communal powers,” Mr. Horatti said. “It is not just that the JD(S) was interested in a partnership. Even the BJP was interested and its leaders had sent us an offer saying we could get eight out of the 28 seats in the Lok Sabha elections. But Kumaraswamy went with the Congress and we suffered badly,” he said. He, however, added that Mr. Gowda’s actions were guided by greater ideals and it was not right to criticise him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hdk-right-on-tie-up-with-cong-horatti/article33275322.ece
08 December 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Protest planned in Belagavi||Farmers’ associations have decided to support the all-India bandh called by Punjab farmers on Tuesday. All-India Kisan Khet Majdoor Sanghatan and Raitha Krishi Karmik Sanghatane will organise a protest in Belagavi. Some leaders held a meeting on Monday to discuss preparations for the bandh.Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha leader Jayashree Gurannanavar and Krishik Samaj leader Sidagouda Modagi said the protesters would submit a memorandum to the Deputy Commissioner’s office seeking repeal of the farm amendments.   Doctors’ strike Doctors and paramedical staff of government medical colleges and Karnataka State Government Medical Officers’ Association will go on strike, wearing black badges on Tuesday.Their demands, however, are the withdrawal of the Union government order on allowing Ayurvedic surgeons to conduct surgery and the mixing of methods of treatment that they are calling “mixopathy”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/protest-planned-in-belagavi/article33275327.ece
08 December 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||AIIMS topper||Divya Aravind Hirolli has got the first rank in the DM entrance test held by All-India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) for the general critical care department. She has got 67% in the exam. She cleared her MBBS from BLDE Medical College in Vijayapura and MD from Kempegowda Institute of Medical Sciences, Hubballi. She has also studied fellowship courses at the National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences and at G.B. Pant Institute of Postgraduate Medical Education and Research, her father Aravind Hirolli, a lawyer in Vijayapura, said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/aiims-topper/article33275326.ece
08 December 2020||belagavi,KARNATAKA||Seer’s birth anniversary celebrated||“The Lingayat religion has created a set of systematic rules and rituals to create a better world,” said Sri Mallikarjun Swami of Anandapuram Murugha Mutt in Belagavi on Monday. He was speaking at the 131st birth anniversary celebration of Sri Shiva Basava Swami of Naganur Rudrakshi Mutt. The swami said that the 12th century cultural revolution changed society by speaking against discrimination on the basis of caste, class, and gender.A new office building of Sri Siddarameshwar Education Society was inaugurated on the occasion. The seers inaugurated a painting exhibition on the life of the late swami.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/seers-birth-anniversary-celebrated/article33275335.ece
08 December 2020||belagavi,KARNATAKA||Health camp||KLE. Ayurved Hospital will on Thursday organise a free checkup camp for kidney diseases. Doctors from the kidney clinic will be available for consultation between 10 a.m. and 1 p.m. Another camp, for liver diseases, will be held on the same day from 9 a.m. to 1 p.m. and from 3 p.m to 5 p.m, said a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/health-camp/article33275336.ece
08 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||With earnings depleting, parents pull students out of schools and head home||P. Verma (name changed) used to run a relatively successful granite company on the outskirts of the city. However, months after the lockdown, business is yet to pick up. He and his family have made the difficult choice of returning to their hometown in Bihar. “I had to pull my children out of their private CBSE school in Bengaluru. We have decided to enrol both our sons in schools in Bihar for the next academic year,” he said. And he’s not the only migrant family to have decided to upend their lives in Bengaluru and go back home. Over the last few weeks, some of the top private schools in the city have been receiving a flurry of transfer certificate requests from students as their parents are returning to their hometowns. While a majority of the requests have come from families running businesses in the city that have been adversely affected by the pandemic and the economic downturn, others are from parents who have decided to work-from-home in their native places thereby reducing expenses such as rent. Some parents have opted to put admissions on hold for the 2020-21 academic year. Dakshayani Kanna, principal of Harvest International School, said that around half a dozen parents had approached her with such requests. “They explained that they were relocating back to their hometowns as their businesses in Bengaluru have not recovered from the losses incurred due to COVID-19. They have taken transfer certificates with the intention of enrolling their children in schools in their native towns. They feel that their expenses will be less if they move back home as they will have the support of their families as well,” she said. She, however, pointed out that there were also a sizable number of parents who have “temporarily” relocated to their hometowns with many software companies providing the work-from-home option till mid-2021. “But the section of parents who have salaried jobs have told us that they will come back to the city in time for the next academic year and want to continue with online classes for now,” she said. Mansoor Ali Khan, member, board of management, DPS Group of Schools, said that software engineers have decided to relocate to their hometowns as they feel that working remotely is the way forward. “Besides taking transfer certificates from schools, many are even putting admissions of their children on hold and are not attending online classes for the 2020-21 academic year,” he said. Sumanth Narayan, founder of Shanthinikethana School, said that at least 35 parents who had sought transfer certificates cited relocation to their native towns. “The parents we spoke to feel that their businesses will not pick up for at least another two years,” he said. The school has also received requests from parents employed in the private sector who have had to adjust to pay cuts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/with-earnings-depleting-parents-pull-students-out-of-schools-and-head-home/article33275079.ece
08 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Karnataka headed for revenue deficit in a year: Siddaramaiah||Claiming that the State’s financial condition had deteriorated, Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah on Monday warned that Karnataka was bound to face revenue deficit in about a year from now. Participating in a debate in the Assembly on floods and compensation provided by the government, he said the committed expenditure, which used to be around 75% of total expenditure when he was the Chief Minister, had now touched 92%. ‘Why boards?’ “If this situation continues, then we will face revenue deficit in about a year,” Mr. Siddaramaiah warned, and expressed concern over the government constituting various caste and community-based development boards in such a situation. “Instead of allocating money to such boards, you could have paid compensation to farmers and flood victims,” he argued. Mr. Siddaramaiah launched an offensive against the BJP government at the Centre by accusing it of showing “step-motherly attitude” towards Karnataka. As against losses to the tune of Rs. 24,941.73 crore due to floods that ravaged the State in three phases this year, the Centre had given only Rs. 577 crore, he said. At the same time, the Centre had given a huge compensation of Rs. 2,707 crore to West Bengal in view of the forthcoming elections though the intensity of floods was lesser there, he alleged. He wondered why Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa had not taken a delegation of MPs from Karnataka to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to seek adequate compensation for the State. He also took exception to the Prime Minister not visiting Karnataka for a flood survey though he went to Bihar for the same purpose. He also criticised Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman for rejecting the 15th Finance Commission’s recommendation to provide special grants of Rs. 5,495 crore to Karnataka and two other States.  “I have written three letters to the Chief Minister related to floods. But he has not responded to any of them,” Mr. Siddaramaiah said. The government had given a meagre crop loss compensation of Rs. 110 crore though 25% of crops worth Rs. 14,000 crore was lost, he alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/karnataka-headed-for-revenue-deficit-in-a-year-siddaramaiah/article33275098.ece
08 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Resident doctors stage protest, demand risk allowance, stipend||Demanding COVID-19 risk allowance, regular payment of stipend and exemption of tuition fee and complete functioning of non-COVID-19 care at Bangalore Medical College and Research Institute (BMCRI), resident (junior) doctors across the State have started an indefinite protest from Monday. These doctors, who have come together under the banner of Karnataka Association of Resident Doctors’ (KARD) held a symbolic two-hour protest demonstration in front of their respective medical colleges. Association president Dayanand Sagar said resident doctors will hold two-hour protest demonstrations wearing black badges in their respective colleges everyday till their demands are met. “Although we have been working all through the pandemic risking our lives, we are not being paid any COVID-19 risk allowance. We demand that this risk allowance be given to all residents, interns and undergraduates who were on COVID-19 duty,” he said. As all postgraduates, house surgeons and undergraduates have been involved in COVID-19 activities since the last nine months, no proper clinical academic activities have been happening in medical colleges across the State. “However, the government has been collecting regular tuition fees. We urge the government to give us fee exemption for 2020-21,” Dr. Sagar said. That apart, senior residents who have been working in various institutes have not been paid their rightful salary in many institutes since their joining, a statement from the association said. “Postgraduates in Sanjay Gandhi Institute of Orthopaedics and Indira Gandhi Institute Of Child Health have not been paid their revised stipend for the past six months. House surgeons have been working tirelessly for COVID-19 care. NEET PG as well as MBBS exams have been postponed and there is uncertainty hovering around the current batch of house surgeons regarding extension of internship. As per the MBBS curriculum, internship has to be 365 days only and internship should not be extended,” he said. The doctors met the Principal Secretary (Medical Education) on Monday and submitted their demands. “We will meet the Medical Education Minister on Tuesday and decide on the course of action,” he added.  Government’s response P.G. Girish, Director of Medical Education, said the stipend of the medicos had been increased considerably amidst the pandemic and that included risk allowance. “Except for ‘D’ group employees, COVID-19 risk allowance is not being paid to anyone,” he said. He also refuted the claim that the doctors had not been paid their stipend in the last six months. “Let them show us their bank statements. There was a delay in releasing the stipend for October. However, that is also under process now,” Dr. Girish said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/resident-doctors-stage-protest-demand-risk-allowance-stipend/article33275090.ece
08 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Take action against those who ‘sell’ honorary doctorate, say MLCs||Cutting across party lines, members of the Legislative Council on Monday urged the government to take action against hardly-known institutions here and abroad that dole out honorary doctorates indiscriminately. Raising the issue, BJP member Tejaswini Gowda said there has to be guidelines for awarding honorary doctorates and the government should have some control over it. BJP member Y.A. Narayanswamy also said that there is no regulation of honorary doctorates and anyone can “buy it” for as low as Rs. 50,000. Congress member Dharmasena also recalled his experience when a few people had approached him offering an honorary doctorate. “Though I refused initially, they convinced me to take it. Only when I hesitantly agreed that they placed a demand for Rs. 1.75 lakh. After I refused to pay any money, they came down to Rs. 50,000. They even said two more along with me could get honorary doctorates. It was s package!” he recounted. Responding to the issue, Deputy Chief Minister and Higher Education Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan acknowledged that it had become a trend that must be controlled. “There is a network that operates. There is no recognition and it is illegal. If there are complaints, we will act upon them,” he said.  BJP member Y.A. Narayanswamy said there is no regulation of honorary doctorates and anyone can “buy it” for as low as Rs. 50,000.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/take-action-against-those-who-sell-honorary-doctorate-say-mlcs/article33275107.ece
08 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||QR code to help improve garbage collection process||The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) is all set to implement a pilot project that will feature a QR code-based door-to-door garbage collection system in the coming weeks. The project, which is already running on a pilot basis in Mangaluru, will be implemented in Bengaluru under the Smart City project. Each house will be assigned a QR code that will be affixed at the entrance or gate. Garbage collectors will scan it while collecting garbage, thereby feeding live data to the smart control room. Six years ago, a similar pilot was conducted in Yelahanka zone for a small block of 500 houses and had yielded positive results. “But faced with resistance when trying to scale it up, the BBMP shelved it. It has been revived under the Smart City project,” sources in the civic body said. “This system will not only ensure that each household is served by garbage collectors, but has other benefits too,” said Sarfaraz Khan, Joint Commissioner (Solid Waste Management), BBMP. Under the new contracts, garbage collection vehicles are to be equipped with GPS systems and RFID tags. The QR code will only add to the surveillance of these vehicles. Bengaluru Smart City Ltd. will provide the handheld scanning devices, sources said. The QR code can act as a bridge between households and the civic body on all matters of SWM. Once they scan it, garbage collectors will be able to report whether the household has given mixed waste or segregated waste. “The biggest problem we face today while enforcing segregation of waste at source is the lack of data, which will be fixed with this mechanism. The data of households giving mixed waste can be handed over to marshals for enforcement,” Mr. Khan said. Meanwhile, the same code can be used by households to lodge complaints on any SWM-related matter, officials said. The BBMP is presently designing a system to implement the system in group housing complexes like apartments and gated communities, which produce less than 100 kg of garbage per day. “In case of group housing, the waste of the entire building is collected at one point and not from individual households. They also do not allow outsiders in. So we are working on a system where office-bearers of the RWA will be tasked with providing data of individual housing units every day,” Mr. Khan said.  The biggest problem we face today while enforcing segregation of waste at source is the lack of data, which will be fixed with this mechanism. The data of households giving mixed waste can be handed over to marshals for enforcement Sarfaraz Khan, Joint Commissioner (Solid Waste Management), BBMP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/qr-code-to-help-improve-garbage-collection-process/article33275077.ece
08 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Bharat bandh unlikely to affect life in State||Many organisations in the State have extended their support to the ‘Bharat Bandh’ that will be observed on Tuesday, but it is unlikely that life will be affected. Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha and Hasiru Sene State president Kodihalli Chandrashekar said, “All farmers’ associations in the State have supported the bandh call. Farmers will stage protests across the State and block highways. We are demanding the repeal of laws brought out by the Centre that are against the interest of the farmers,” he said. The Bengaluru Jilla Beedi Vyaparigala Sanghatenagala Okkoota also extended its statement to the bandh. The State unit of AAP announced that it will stage a protest on Tuesday at Maurya Circle.  While street vendors will remain closed in support, it will be business as usual for restaurants and hotels. P.C. Rao, president, Bruhat Bangalore Hotels’ Association, said that hotels will be open on Tuesday. “Henceforth, we have decided not to extend our support to any bandh.”  The bandh is unlikely to impact passenger transport services in the State. Road transport corporations said that services will be operated as usual. C. Shikha, MD, of BMTC said, “In Bengaluru, depot managers have been instructed to operate buses as per the schedule and not to provide leave for staff. Our security and vigilance officials will visit the field to oversee operations.” Many auto and taxi unions have extended only moral support to the bandh call. K. Somashekar of Namma Chalakra Trade Union said, “We are extending our support to the farmers demanding justice in the country. But auto and taxi drivers are yet to recover from financial losses induced by COVID-19 and are not in a position to repay their loans. Considering the poor financial situation of the drivers, we have decided to provide services on Tuesday.” Online classes Many private schools affiliated with the State board have decided not to conduct online classes in support of farmers. D. Shashi Kumar, general secretary, Associated Managements’ of Primary and Secondary Schools in Karnataka, said that online classes scheduled on Tuesday will be conducted another day. “However, online examinations and tests scheduled on Tuesday will continue as per schedule,” he said. The management of Independent CBSE Schools Association (MICSA) said that online classes will continue in schools associated with them. Traffic diversions in CBD As many as 15,000 policemen and 50 platoons of reserve police force have been deployed to maintain law and order in the city. Bengaluru Police Commissioner Kamal Pant held a meeting with the senior officers to discuss security arrangements for the next two days. Ahead of the protest, the police announced that traffic will be diverted on key roads in Central Business District. Additional police have also been deployed at entry and exit points. Patrolling on highways has been intensified to monitor the arrival of farmers and ensuretraffic and public transport are not disrupted. On Monday, Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai met senior police officers to discuss the arrangements. He directed the police to take strict action if the protests became violent or disrupted normal life.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bandh-unlikely-to-affect-life/article33275092.ece
08 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||COVID-19: Deadline cannot be set for making vaccine available to all: Sudhakar||Refusing to set any deadline for making COVID-19 vaccine available to common persons in the State, Health and Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar on Monday said that it was difficult to do so until WHO or ICMR approves the vaccine for public use. “Vaccine protocol is yet to be arrived at. It is to be seen whether vaccine has to be given once or twice within a reasonable time. We are expecting the availability of the vaccine soon. But a specific dateline for public vaccination cannot be set,” the Minister told the Legislative Council on the opening day of the winter session. While there has been no vaccine for many virus, 50 companies are involved in vaccine development for COVID-19 of which 25 companies have reached the clinical trial stage, he pointed out. Dr. Sudhakar said that anticipating the availability of the vaccine at the earliest, the State government has been preparing logistic support. “We have identified about 2.7 lakh persons from both public and private sectors to receive the shots in the first phase along with those in vulnerable groups such as senior citizens and those with comorbidities,” he said, adding that third phase trials for vaccine was underway in the State. When Congress member P.R. Ramesh expressed his concern over involvement of private sector in distribution of vaccine, Dr. Sudhakar said that though vaccination will be started through government facilities, the private sector will have to be roped in. “About 66,800 public personnel and about 35,300 private sector personnel have been identified for vaccination purpose,” he added. To a question by Congress member M. Narayanswamy on whether patient details had been compromised since patients were receiving calls from agencies offering help, Dr. Sudhakar said no details had been given out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-19-deadline-cannot-be-set-for-making-vaccine-available-to-all-sudhakar/article33275103.ece
08 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Court sets deadline for State to decide on restarting Vidyagama programme||The Karnataka High Court has directed the State government to take a decision by December 14 on whether Vidyagama programme could be recommenced for students of rural and semi-urban areas who have no access to online education. The court also said that the government can take assistance from private companies under the Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) scheme funds to provide computers, laptops or tabs to impart online education to students who can’t afford such gadgets, as the government said that it cannot provide them due to financial crunch cropped up following the pandemic. A Division Bench comprising Justice B.V. Nagarathna and Justice N.S. Sanjay Gowda issued the directions while taking note of the present situation as it is not known when the pandemic would subside and efface, and when regular classes would commence for the students, particularly those who have the benefit of free and compulsory education under the Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education Act, 2009. “If the State makes an appeal through CSR as envisaged under the Companies Act, 2013, corporate entities and others may come forward to aid and assist the State in ensuring that there is no discontinuity in the education of children,” the Bench observed. Also, the Bench said that the government, through NGOs working in the field of education, could also ensure that there is no disruption of education or classes during the pandemic. The Bench issued the directions on a PIL petition filed by A.A. Sanjeev Narrain and two others of Bengaluru seeking directions to ensure continuity of education through online mode to children belonging to disadvantage and underprivileged sections by providing them gadgets. Due to discontinuation of education, the children may be distracted and their attention may be diverted besides exposing the danger of such children being pushed to child labour or child marriage, the petitioners pointed out. The government, while citing financial crunch to provide these gadget as sought by the petitioners, told the court that Vidyagama programme of providing education at their doorstep was commenced for students not having digital device or Internet facility to attend online classes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/court-sets-deadline-for-state-to-decide-on-restarting-vidyagama-programme/article33275114.ece
08 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Congress’ misinterpretation of secularism has led to issues’||Asking Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader Siddaramaiah to explain his understanding of “secularism”, former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy on Monday claimed that it was Congress party’s “misinterpretation of the idea” that had led to secularism “facing insults today”. “Time and again I have said that our idea of secularism is having deep belief in our religion and gods and yet, respecting other’s belief,” he said. He went on to allege that Mr. Siddaramaiah’s narrative of secularism was to “break castes or indulge in unnecessary appeasement”. Mr. Kumaraswamy made these statements in a series of tweets, in response to Mr. Siddaramaiah’s statement over the JD(S)’s commitment to secularism. The CLP leader had said that JD(S)’s commitments will be known during the voting of no-confidence motion moved by BJP against Legislative Council chairman K. Prathapchandra Shetty, a Congress MLC. The JD(S) support is crucial since both the Congress and the BJP do not have majority in the 75-member House. “No Congress leader has had the decency to seek the support of JD(S) for the no-confidence vote. Yet, Mr. Siddaramaiah’s remark smacks of arrogance,” Mr. Kumaraswamy said. “We are not slaves to support even without being asked. It is this attitude that is responsible for the downfall of the Congress.” He said that they need not learn secularism from the Congress. “We do not need lecture from the Congress on the JD(S)’s stand and H.D. Deve Gowda’s commitment to secularism,” he said. “It is your (Mr. Siddaramaiah) double standard and lack of clarity that has led to the current political situation in the State,” he alleged. The two leaders, not known to have good equations, have been exchanging barbs frequently, especially after the fall of the 14-month Congress-JD(S) coalition headed by Mr. Kumaraswamy last year. Mr. Kumaraswamy had recently said “secular weakness” of Mr. Gowda had been exploited by Congress.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/congress-misinterpretation-of-secularism-has-led-to-issues/article33275105.ece
08 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Come out with health scheme for seniors in view of COVID-19: HC||The High Court of Karnataka on Monday asked the Union and State governments to come out with a scheme to extend medical help to senior citizens especially in the light of the plight of aged persons during COVID-19 pandemic. While declining to issue any directions to public or private sector health insurance companies to issue specific insurance policies to senior citizens as sought in a PIL petition, the Court also directed both the government to inform the available schemes in relation to health of senior citizens. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice S.Vishwajith Shetty issued the direction during the hearing of a PIL petition filed by city-based Letzkit Foundation. Stating that the Court cannot pass orders to issue policies either free of cost or at affordable premium as the policies are issued based on various parameters, including commercial factors, the Bench reminded the Governments about apex court’s verdict that right to health is a fundamental right of citizens while directing government to come out with a scheme to secure health of senior citizens.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/come-out-with-health-scheme-for-seniors-in-view-of-covid-19-hc/article33275086.ece
08 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||SWR resumes unreserved passenger train services||After a gap of over eight months, South Western Railway (SWR) resumed unreserved passenger train services in the city. It operated six trains including Mysuru-Bangarpet, Bengaluru-Marikuppam and Hindupur-Yeshwanthpur services. For the first time, the Bengaluru division of SWR introduced a Mainline Electrical Multiple Units (MEMU) train from Krantivira Sangolli Rayanna Station, Bengaluru, to Hosur after getting approval from the Railway Board. Rail enthusiast Abhishek R, who was among the 20-30 commuters who took the maiden service to Hosur, said: “Running MEMU trains from the city to Hosur has been a long pending demand among commuters. It was a good experience to travel in the first such service.” The train pulled out of KSR at 7.15 a.m. and reached Hosur in a little over an hour, at 8.35 a.m. “The introduction of MEMU will help thousands of employees working in IT and other sectors. They can get down at Heelalige and other stations to reach their workplaces. SWR should introduce more trains in the sector,” he said, adding that the doubling of the line will expedite the introduction of more suburban train services in the future. Divisional Regional Manager, Bengaluru Division (SWR), Ashok Kumar Verma, said, “On the first day of resuming services, occupancy was good in the Marikuppam-Bangarpet-Bengaluru train. In other trains, however, ridership was low. Less than a hundred people boarded the train from Mysuru. We are hoping that the number of passengers will increase in the coming days. We will run trains as per demand in the coming days.” He added that COVID-19 protocols are being followed including the sanitisation of coaches. Across stations, Members of Parliament joined railway officials to greet passengers and create awareness among the general public on containing the spread of COVID-19. MP (Bengaluru Central) P.C. Mohan interacted with the passengers who arrived in the MEMU train from Mysuru at KSR Bengaluru station. At Bangarpet railway station, MP S. Muniswamy received Marikuppam-KSR Bengaluru MEMU passenger train. Basavaraju, MP of Tumakuru, interacted with the passengers of Tumakuru-Bengaluru train. In a release, SWR said that the MPs distributed masks and created awareness among the passengers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/swr-resumes-unreserved-passenger-train-services/article33275084.ece
08 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||More delay in resumption of non-COVID-19 care at Victoria||Even as resident doctors from Bangalore Medical College and Research Institute (BMCRI) are on a protest demanding complete functioning of non-COVID-19 care at the institute, officials from the Directorate of Medical Education (DME) said the resumption of non-COVID-19 services will be further delayed due to logistic issues. The DME had earlier announced that non-COVID-19 care will resume in BMCRI from December 1. “While non-COVID-19 care has begun at all BMCRI-affiliated hospitals (Vani Vilas, PMSSY, Minto and Institute of Nephro Urology), it is getting delayed at Victoria Hospital owing to logistics. As the facility had been converted into a dedicated COVID-29 care one, no maintenance work had been carried out in the last nine months. We shifted the existing COVID-19 patients from Trauma and Emergency Care Centre (TECC) to the Tower Block in Victoria Hospital on Monday to carry out maintenance work at TECC,” said P.G. Girish, Director of Medical Education. He said the patients would be shifted back to TECC after the maintenance work and following this, Tower Block and other wings of the hospital would be cleaned and fumigated for non-COVID-19 care. “Although we had planned to resume services from December 1, the process is getting delayed. However, medical students are being posted in other hospitals including Bowring, Lady Curzon Medical College and Broadway hospitals,” the doctor said, refusing to commit on the next date from when services would resume.  Fear of second wave? Sources said the Medical Education Department was a little apprehensive about resuming non-COVID-19 care in the wake of an imminent second wave. “With experts warning that the second wave will be severe, we are worried if there will be an influx of COVID-19 patients. We will have to wait and watch,” another senior official said. However, the Karnataka Association of Resident Doctors (KARD) said medical students were losing out on their practical classes due to the delay. “The hospital once had a staggering 3,000 outpatients a day and 75-100 surgeries were being conducted. But surgeons here have not touched the scalpel in the last nine months. We are at the risk of becoming unskilled doctors,” KARD president Dayanand Sagar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/more-delay-in-resumption-of-non-covid-19-care-at-victoria/article33275088.ece
08 December 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Tributes paid to nine personalities||The Legislative Assembly on Monday paid tributes to nine personalities, including Union Minister Ram Vilas Paswan, former Union Minister Jaswant Singh, and journalist Ravi Belagere, who died recently. Tributes were also paid to former Ministers Y. Nagappa, former MLAs Basavant Iroji Patil, K. Mallappa. and Ratan Kumar Kattemar, literary critic G.S. Amur, and co-operative leader V.S. Sonde.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tributes-paid-to-nine-personalities/article33275095.ece
08 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Land Reforms Bill reintroduced on eve of ‘Bharat bandh’||While the farmers’ agitation is picking up steam in the national capital and they have called for a ‘Bharat Bandh’ on Tuesday, the Karnataka Legislative Council on the opening day of the winter session saw a heated debate on the Karnataka Land Reforms (Second) Amendment Bill, 2020. With the Congress opposing the Bill, further discussion on it is slated for Tuesday. While Revenue Minister R. Ashok, who introduced the Bill in the Council for the second time, sought it to be passed, Congress members insisted that a discussion was needed. In September, during the monsoon session when the Bill was introduced, the Congress and the JD(S) had successfully stalled the passage of the Bill as discussion went on past midnight on the last day of the session. Smarting under the failure to pass the Bill, the government introduced the Bill on the first day of the winter session. One of the important changes that the Bill seeks is to remove the current restrictions on purchase of farm lands in the State. Senior Congress leader B.K. Hariprasad said they would not be sending the right signal by passing the Bill when farmers are protesting in Delhi and bandh call has been given. After about 15 minutes of high decibel arguments, chairman K. Prathapchandra Shetty adjourned the House to Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/land-reforms-bill-reintroduced-on-eve-of-bharat-bandh/article33275108.ece
08 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State registers less than 1,000 cases||The State on Monday reported 998 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total number of cases to 8,94,004. With 11 deaths, the toll rose to 11,867. This is apart from 19 deaths of patients due to non-COVID-19 reasons. Bengaluru Urban reported 501 cases, taking its tally to 3,74,525. It was in June last that the city had recorded around 500, after which cases spiked. With seven deaths coming from Bengaluru, the toll in this district rose to 4,190. Active cases in Bengaluru touched 19,269. As many as 1,601 persons were discharged on Monday, taking the total number of recoveries to 8,57,351. Of the remaining 24,767 active patients, 279 were being monitored in the ICU. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 1.30 %, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) touched 1.10%.  Tests reduce The number of tests reduced to 76,471 as against the average over one lakh conducted daily. Sources said this was because the number of samples collected and tested are usually lesser onweekends. Monday’s 76,471 tests include 69,999 RT-PCR tests. With this, the total number of tests rose to 1,17,89,715.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-registers-less-than-1000-cases/article33275091.ece
08 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Ruling party members express dissatisfaction||The BJP government was in for embarrassment in the Assembly on Monday, with some of its senior members expressing dissatisfaction over the handling of a few issues, including declaration of revenue villages. During Question Hour, when Revenue Minister R. Ashok was replying to Ashok Nayak of the BJP, several ruling party members, including Araga Jnanendra, alleged that some senior officials including Deputy Commissioners were not aware of granting revenue village status. Speaker Vishweshwara Hegde Kageri  too  intervened and asked the government to issue instructions to officials to speed up the process of declaration of revenue villages. The ruling members were also critical of the government when Mr. Ashok was replying to Congress member T.D. Raje Gowda. Mr. Jnanendra and the Speaker told the Minister that village accountants were not visiting the spot while recording the crop grown by farmers in their RTCs (Record of Rights, Tenancy and Crops). They expressed concern over several farmers not being able to get the benefit of either crop insurance or adequate amount of loan though they were cultivating cash crops as those crops were not mentioned in the RTC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ruling-party-members-express-dissatisfaction/article33275101.ece
08 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Will govt. issue clarification on ‘Cauvery Calling’, asks HC||The Karnataka High Court on Monday asked the State government whether it is willing to issue a public notice that “Cauvery Calling” is not its project. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice S. Vishwajith Shetty asked government counsel to clarify this aspect during the hearing of a PIL petition, which has raised certain questions over the project. The government had said that “Cauvery Calling” was not the project of the State government but Isha Foundation, which is promoting the project, was allowed only to mobilise farmers and enrol them to the government’s Krishi Aranya Protsaha Yojane launched in 2011. On finding certain inconsistencies in government’s records with reference to “Cauvery Calling” project report and the statement submitted before the court on the project, the court asked the government to clarify whether it is willing to give a public notice stating that “Cauvery Calling” is not government’s project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/will-govt-issue-clarification-on-cauvery-calling-asks-hc/article33275112.ece
08 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||MLC’s son booked for attack on cops||The Amruthahalli police booked three people, one of whom is the son of an MLC, for allegedly creating a nuisance in a public area and assaulting two policemen. The alleged incident took place on a service road near Bethel church around 11 p.m. on Sunday. A head constable and his colleague saw Fayaz Ahmed, son of MLC Naseer Ahmed, and his friends consuming alcohol in two cars parked on the side of the road. “The police team, who were on patrolling duty to keep a check on mugging cases in the area, asked their identity cards, and later advised them to go home,” said a police officer. However, Fayaz and his friends reportedly got into an argument and roughed up the duo. The policemen informed the control room following which reinforcements were dispatched to the spot. Three members of the group were detained, but the others escaped. “The trio have been brought to the station for further investigation while efforts are on to trace others who are on the run,” the police officer added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mlcs-son-booked-for-attack-on-cops/article33275075.ece
08 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Speaker pulls up govt. over social security pension||Speaker Vishveshwara Hegde Kageri(in picture)on Monday pulled up the government over delay in delivering social security pension to beneficiaries. The issue came up during the government’s reply to a call-attention notice tabled by JD(S) member Ravindra Srikantaiah, who said that elected representatives were flooded with complaints of beneficiaries not getting social security pension regularly. Reforming system Replying on behalf of Revenue Minister R. Ashok, Housing Minister V. Somanna explained that reforming the disbursal system had come in the way of regular payments. Taking exception to this, Mr. Kageri said that it was an indication of how the government’s administrative machinery was not functioning effectively. Improving the system need not mean that there should be delay in providing pension to beneficiaries, he said. Attributing the delay in disbursal of pension to the lacunae in the administrative system, he said it would be an injustice to poor beneficiaries if it was not rectified. Steps to be taken Earlier, Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah too had expressed concern over the delay in payment of social security pension. Responding to this, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa said measures would be taken immediately to release money.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/speaker-pulls-up-govt-over-social-security-pension/article33275100.ece
08 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Excess charge to be refunded||The government will ensure that private hospitals return any excess money charged for treatment beyond what is fixed by the government, Health and Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar has said. As many as 122 complaints had been received by the Suvarna Arogya Suraksha Trust for overcharging and notices have been issued to them for action. “The practice of referring COVID-19 patients to private hospitals had been stopped since there were adequate beds available in government facilities,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/excess-charge-to-be-refunded/article33275109.ece
08 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Issues faced by transgenders highlighted||While rights of the transgender community are increasingly being highlighted in mainstream society, members still encounter challenges on a daily basis. The problems of the community were highlighted at a two-day workshop ‘Transform 2020’. Speaking at the conference organised by the Centre for Law and Policy Research, activist Uma said how relief during COVID-19 pandemic for transgender persons was inadequate. She said that the State government only distributed dry ration. “There was no relief in the form of cash, which was needed to pay rent,” she said. At a panel discussion on reservations, Jayna Kothari, senior advocate and executive director of CLPR, spoke on the need for horizontal reservations in the public sector. The issue is pending before the High Court of Karnataka.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/issues-faced-by-transgenders-highlighted/article33275115.ece
08 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Officials probe death of goats, sheep||Forest officials on Monday resumed combing operations to track a wild animal that is believed to have killed 17 goats and sheep at a farm in Veerabhadra Nagar. A team headed by Ravishankar S.S., Deputy Conservator of Forests, questioned residents about the attack.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/officials-probe-death-of-goats-sheep/article33275074.ece
08 December 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Employees, people of Bhadravati seek revival of State’s oldest steel plant||Workers and former employees of Visvesaraya Iron and Steel Plant (VISP) plant at Bhadravati, besides the people of the industrial town, have joined hands to fight for its revival. A committee to look into this issue has come into existence under the leadership of S.N. Balakrishna, a former employee. Bhadravati MLA B.K. Sangameshwar is the honorary president. J. Jagadish, president of the labour union of the VISP, is the general secretary. Representatives of all major political parties are involved in the committee formed to put pressure on the State and Union governments to invest money to revive the plant, instead of going for disinvestment. The Ministry of Steel has decided on disinvestment of the plant, a unit of Steel Authority of India Ltd. (SAIL), and it has already received ‘Expression of Interest’ from interested bidders. Minister for Steel Dharmendra Pradhan had made a statement on this in Rajya Sabha on September 21 this year. This development has been opposed by the workers, former employees and people of the town. The plant, set up by the Wadiyars of Mysuru in 1923, once had 13,000 employees. The production of hot metal (liquid iron) had reached as high as 2.2 lakh tonnes per annum. The contribution of Mysore Paper Mills and the VISP towards the economy of Bhadravati is significant. However, in recent years the production has come down drastically, decreasing the workforce as well. At present, there are only 278 regular employees and of them 53 are in the executive posts. Besides them, 1,400 are on contract and they get only 13 days of work a month. Mr. Jagadish told The Hindu that since January 2017 the production had come down. The steel-making shop (SMS) and blast furnace section have been closed permanently. “The State government merged the plant with Steel Authority of India in 1989 with the objective of modernising the machinery and improvising the production. But, the purpose was never served as SAIL did not give due attention to the plant,” he said. In August 2015, then Minister for Steel Narendra Singh Tomar visited the plant and assured Rs. 1,000 crore for its revival, provided the State government allotted a mine. The State government responded by allotting a mine to extract iron ore at Sandur in Ballari district. “Later, Chaudhari Birender Singh, who was Minister for Steel, visited the plant in March 2018 and gave a similar assurance. But nothing happened. Now the Centre has decided to hand it over to private people,” Mr. Jagadish said. Mr. Balakrishna, 80, said: “Narendra Modi’s government has decided to sell all public sector units. Though I have been a BJP supporter for a long time, I cannot accept this. The lack of will among leaders representing the State government is the reason why they have failed to influence the Centre to get funds for its revival.” The committee has decided to meet Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa with the demand soon on this issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/employees-people-of-bhadravati-seek-revival-of-states-oldest-steel-plant/article33275111.ece
08 December 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||CM decries bandh call||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa has disapproved of the nation-wide bandh call on Tuesday. Speaking to presspersons at Sagar in Shivamogga district on Monday, he said the bandh would cause inconvenience to people. It was not a good decision. “The Prime Minister has appealed to the farming community not to go for a bandh. I suggest they resolve the issue through talks”, he said. Development of Sagar Later speaking at a programme organised by Hassan City Municipal Council, he said the State government would provide sufficient funds for the development of Sagar town. The government had earmarked Rs. 60 crore for the widening of the market road in the town and of that Rs. 30 crore would be released immediately. The government had already released Rs. 120 crore for the development of Jog, a popular tourist place. The construction of the bridge across Sharavati backwaters had been going on. “We will take all necessary steps to ensure Sagar is developed into a model taluk”, he said. Sagar MLA Hartal Halappa, Lok Sabha member B.Y. Vijayendra and others were present at the programme. The Chief Minister was felicitated on the occasion. He was in the city to attend a marriage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cm-decries-bandh-call/article33275555.ece
08 December 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Sakala applications cleared||The government departments in Hassan district have disposed of 10,655 applications submitted under Sakala scheme in the Sakala Week that concluded on December 5. According to a communiqué from the district administration, the departments received 9,426 applications during Sakala Saptaha between November 30 and December 5. As many as 10,655 applications, including those filed earlier, were cleared during this week. As many as 362 applications were rejected for various reasons. The offices of Revenue Department cleared 6,291 applications, rejected 270 applications. The Transport Department received 2,044 applications during this week and cleared 2,551 including those filed earlier. As many as 50 applications were rejected. The urban development cell received 582 applications and disposed of 528. Similarly, the Food and Civil Supplies Department received 1,305 applications and disposed of 1,285 of them, said the district administration bulletin.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sakala-applications-cleared/article33275548.ece
08 December 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Law against ‘love jihad’ in next session: CM||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa has said that the State government will table the Bill prohibiting cow slaughter, in the ongoing legislature session, but the law against ‘love jihad’ will come up only in the next session. Speaking to presspersons at Sagar in Shivamogga district, Mr. Yediyurappa said during his earlier stint as Chief Minister, the government had passed the Bill to ban cow slaughter in totality. However, the then Governor had not given consent. “I am hopeful this time the Governor will approve the law. We will table the Bill on ‘love jihad’ in the next session,” he said. Animal Husbandry Minister Prabhu Chavan visited Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat to study the anti-cow slaughter laws there and said stringent provisions from those laws will be incorporated into the one proposed in Karnataka.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/law-against-love-jihad-in-next-session-cm/article33275096.ece
08 December 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||‘KSE should resign’||Alleging that the Minister in charge of Shivamogga district, K.S. Eshwarappa, has failed to maintain law and order in the district, former MLA and Congress leader K.B. Prasanna Kumar has demanded that he should resign. At a press conference in Shivamogga on Monday, Mr. Prasanna Kumar said the gang rape of a minor girl by a staff member of McGann Hospital and his friends had shocked the district. The act exhibited the failure of the administration. Further, he said Mr. Eshwarappa had failed in improving the city infrastructure facilities. “Instead of developing Shivamogga into a smart city, he has turned it into a dirty city.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kse-should-resign/article33275547.ece
08 December 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||40 fresh cases||As many as 40 fresh cases of COVID-19 were reported in Hassan district on Monday. With that, the number of cases reported so far has increased to 27,285. So far 455 people have died.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/40-fresh-cases/article33275546.ece
08 December 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Many organisations support bandh call||Various organisations and outfits, as well as political parties such as the Congress, Janata Dal (S), Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), and the Left, and trade unions have extended support to the call for a Bharat Bandh given by farmers seeking the repeal of “anti-farmer laws”. Representatives of various organisations and political parties held a meeting in Hubballi on Monday expressing support for the bandh call. Kalasa Banduri Raitha Horata Samiti convener Siddu Teji said that representatives of over 10 organisations took part in the meeting and decided to hold peaceful protests on Tuesday and block national highways. Similarly, various organisations held a meeting in Dharwad under the banner of Akhil Bharat Raita Sangharsha Samiti and announced the decision to support the bandh call. Addressing presspersons on behalf of the forum, various leaders, including convener Laxman Jadagannavar, said the was taken unanimously and peaceful protests would be held on Tuesday. He also alleged that the Centre had pushed farmers to the streets by promulgating “anti-farmer and pro-corporate” farm Bills. Meanwhile, the district units of Congress have issued press releases supporting the bandh call. In a press release issued on behalf of the Left parties and organisations, convener Mahesh Pattar said that a mega protest march would be taken out from Indira Glass House to Kittur Chennamma Circle in Hubballi. “We demand a parliamentary session on the recent agricultural Acts,” he stated. Expressing support for the bandh call, AAP Dharwad district unit president Santosh Naragund said the party would take out a protest march and also submit a memorandum through Union Minister Pralhad Joshi on Tuesday. Security arrangements Meanwhile, the district police and Hubballi-Dharwad Police Commissionerate have made elaborate security arrangements in the wake of the bandh call.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/many-organisations-support-bandh-call/article33275324.ece
08 December 2020||Hubballi,KARNATAKA||Hunger strike enters third day||The relay hunger strike by teachers and employees of private educational institutions entered its third day on Monday, with members of the Hubballi and Dharwad urban and rural units of Karnataka Madhyamika Shala Noukarara Sangha continuing with their stir in Dharwad. Office-bearers of the organisation N.N. Savanur, N.C. Patil, S.B. Hiremath and others spoke on why they had to launch the relay hunger strike and elaborated on the various pending issues concerning teachers and private educational institutions. Members of various management boards of educational institutions from Belagavi, Hubballi, and Dharwad took part in the agitation, along with former MLA N.H. Konaraddi, and expressed solidarity with the protesters. Former Minister Basavaraj Horatti, who is leading the protest, told presspersons that as the government had failed to respond to their pleas, they were forced to hold the relay hunger strike. At least now the government is responding to the demands one by one, he said. Meeting Mr. Horatti said that after the launch of the agitation, Minister for Primary and Secondary Education S. Suresh Kumar has convened a meeting of officials of the department on December 16 in Bengaluru and has invited him to participate in it. Mr. Horatti said he would participate in the meeting, provided the Minister was positive towards fulfilling the demands. But meanwhile, the agitation will continue, he added. Later, addressing the protesters, Mr. Horatti said that before proceeding to the meeting, he would speak to the Minister and if Mr. Kumar did not appear open-minded when it came to resolving the long-pending issues, he would not participate in the meeting. The group's State general secretary, G.R. Bhat, said that more teachers and non-teaching staff members of private institutions would participate in the agitation day by day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hunger-strike-enters-third-day/article33275330.ece
08 December 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Kulkarni’s judicial custody extended again||The judicial custody of Congress leader and former Minister Vinay Kulkarni was extended by another 14 days on Monday by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) Special Court in Dharwad. As Mr. Kulkarni’s judicial custody ended on Monday, CBI sleuths produced him before the court through videoconference facility. He is presently lodged at Hindalga jail in Belagavi. The Fourth Additional District and Sessions Judge and CBI Special Court judge C.M. Gangadhar held the hearing and remanded Mr. Kulkarni in judicial custody for another 14 days. He ordered the CBI sleuths to produce the accused before the court on December 21. Mr. Kulkarni was arrested by the CBI in connection with the murder ofzilla panchayat member Yogeeshgouda Goudar and has been in judicial custody for 33 days. Bail plea Meanwhile, his bail plea is scheduled to be heard on Wednesday, when the CBI counsel is expected to file objections. The court has heard the arguments of Mr. Kulkarni’s counsel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kulkarnis-judicial-custody-extended-again/article33275328.ece
08 December 2020||Kalaburagi,KARNATAKA||Protest staged over bifurcation of Ballari||Many farmers, Dalit organisations, Kannada groups, and members of the transgender community, under the banner of Akhanda Ballari Zilla Horata Samiti, staged a protest here on Monday opposing the State government’s move to bifurcate Ballari and form Vijayanagara district out of it. Forum leader Sirigeri Pannaraj and farmers’ leader Darur Purushottam Gowda criticised the BJP government, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, and his Cabinet colleagues for taking a “unilateral decision” without consulting various organisations and the people of the region before sending such a recommendation for the approval of the Cabinet. The agitators said that consecutive governments have not been responsive on the matter of development of newly carved-out districts in the past, always failing to address their socio-economic needs. Terming the formation of a new district “politically motivated”, the protesters said that Vijayanagara district was not being created based on the demands from the people of the region. They alleged that Forest and Environment Minister B.S. Anand Singh had pressured the State government on the formation of the district for his own political ends, not development. The forum took out a rally through the main streets in Kalaburagi city and reached the Deputy Commissioners’ office and submitted a memorandum demanding that the State government withdraw the decision. The protesters also threatened to intensify their stir if the government failed to do so.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/protest-staged-over-bifurcation-of-ballari/article33275334.ece
08 December 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Postcard campaign by Cong.||The district unit of the Congress has launched a postcard campaign in protest against the Centre for the passing three farm Bills recently, according to former Minister and MLA for Chittapur Priyank Kharge. The legislator, in a release on Monday, stated that to draw the attention of the BJP-led government, as many as 25,000 postcards from Kalaburagi district would be sent to the office of the President of India. Mr. Kharge said that Congress workers in district and taluk headquarters had collected 25,000 signatures from farmers in the district and 15,000 signatures from Chittapur taluk to send the voice of the farming community to the national capital demanding withdrawal of the “anti-farmer” laws. He also stated that the three farm Bills would open the door for private players to take over agriculture trade completely and also eliminate the Minimum Support Price system. The postcards will be sent to the President of India through the Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee office. The signed postcards have been submitted to KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar, Mr. Kharge said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/postcard-campaign-by-cong/article33275332.ece
08 December 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||‘Remove Sriramulu and Anand Singh from CEPMIZ committee’||Taking serious exception to the inclusion of Forest Minister Anand Singh and Social Welfare Minister B. Sriramulu in the four-member ministerial committee to implement the Comprehensive Environmental Plan for Mining Impact Zone (CEPMIZ), anti-corruption activist and president of Samaj Parivartana Samudaya S.R. Hiremath has demanded that the government to drop them from the committee. “The Supreme Court has set aside more than Rs. 15,000 crore for the rehabilitation of mining-affected persons and the restoration of the environment ravaged by mining in Ballari, Chitradurga, and Tumakuru districts. The State government has formed a four-member Cabinet sub-committee to implement the CEPMIZ and has included Anand Singh and B. Sriramulu, who were strongly indicted by Justice [Santosh] Hegde’s final report [on illegal mining] dated July 27, 2011. They must be excluded from the Cabinet sub-committee and legal action should be initiated against the Ministers,” he said at a press conference in Ballari. He also demanded the use of the amount only for the restoration of life and environment affected by mining, and nothing else. ‘Modify agreement’ Terming the agreement signed between NMDC Donimalai, a Union government undertaking, and the Karnataka government an injustice to the State, Mr. Hiremath urged the government to change the legal permit for NMDC to ensure that 80% of the premium is paid to the State government, instead of the present 22.5%. “The State government should modify the agreement and mining permit so as not to surrender its legitimate rights to the Union government. NMDC is dodging its responsibility with regard to R&R (resettlement and rehabilitation) at its mines. The government should make sure that it undertakes R&R without further delay.” Declaring full support to the farmers’ agitation opposing the recently enacted farm legislation, Mr. Hiremath said the Janaandolanagala Maha Maitri, a grand alliance of people’s movement of which he is part of, would participate in the Bharat Bandh on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/remove-sriramulu-and-anand-singh-from-cepmiz-committee/article33275323.ece
08 December 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||More workdays sought||Demanding effective implementation of the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) scheme, members of Karnataka Prantha Krishi Koolikarara Sangha, under the banner of All-India Agriculture Workers’ Union and the All-India Janawadi Mahila Sangha, and farmers from various taluks staged a demonstration outside office of the zilla panchayat CEO recently. AIJMS State vice-president K. Neela demanded that government extend workdays from the present 100 to 250 under the scheme. Ms. Neela also criticised the government for not paying salaries to outsourced employees working in various hostels run by the Backward Class Welfare Department and demanded that the dues be cleared immediately. “The employees have toiled during COVID-19 at quarantine centres. The department has to pay their salaries and incentives for risking their lives during the pandemic,” she said. Later, the agitators and farmers took out a protest rally from Jagat Circle to the Deputy Commissioner’s office demanding that the Union government withdraw the three new farm Bills that were passed in Parliament. Ms. Neela stated that with the passage of the contentious Bills, big corporate companies would have the freedom to stock commodities, which may lead to farmers getting low prices for their crops. Furthermore, by bringing in more potential buyers, the new Bills might weaken the prevailing MSP system and favour ‘big farmers’ and corporates at the expense of the smaller producers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/more-workdays-sought/article33275321.ece
08 December 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Beary academy awards presentation on Dec. 10||Karnataka Beary Sahitya Academy will present its honorary awards for 2018, 2019, and 2020 at a function at Ravindra Kalakshetra in Bengaluru on Thursday. Padma Shri awardee and social activist Harekala Hajabba will also be felicitated on the occasion. Addressing presspersons here on Monday, chairman of the academy Rahim Uchil said the awards would be presented at 3 p.m. in the presence of C.T. Ravi, former Minister for Kannada and Culture. The awards for 2018 will be presented to Khalid Tannirbavi (arts), Zalekha Mumtaz (literature), and Noor Muhammad (folk). The academy will present the awards for 2019 to Abdul Rahman Kuttettur (literature), Ismail Tannirbavi (arts), and M. Ahmed Bava Moideen (social service and organisation). It has chosen Bashir Ahmed Kinya (literature), Veena Mangaluru (cinema, drama and arts), and Siddique Manjeshwar (social service and organisation) for the awards for 2020. In addition, the chairman said the academywould present its honorary ‘puraskar’ for three years. It will be given to B.M. Umarabba (social service) and Muhammad (lifesaver) for 2018, to Abul Razak Ananthady (education), T.S. Hussain (literature), Abdul Mazeed Suralpady (all rounder), Asif Karnad (social service), and Ali Kunhi Pare (organisation) for 2019, and to Ismail (medical), T.A. Mohammed Asif (education), Ilyas Mangaluru (social service), Rash Beary (organisation), and Safwan Shah Bahrain (youth talent) for 2020. Deputy Chief Minister and Minister for Public Works Department and Social Welfare Govind Karajol and Minister for Fisheries, Ports, Inland Water Transport Kota Srinivas Poojary will present the awards, he said. Kannada Development Authority chairman T.S. Nagabharana will also participate. There will be Beary cultural programmes such as Beary music, duff, kolkali, and oppane on the occasion. Book release The chairman also said that the academy would release a book published by it, titled Mareyalagada Divangata Beary Mahaneeyaru , at a function at Hotel Srinivas in Mangaluru at 4 p.m. on December 18. A DVD having documentary on seniors of the Beary community will also be released on the occasion. Mr. Hajabba will release the book and former president of Kannada Sahitya Parishat Harikrishna Punaroor will release the DVD. The registrar of the academy, Poornima, was present at the press meet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/beary-academy-awards-presentation-on-dec-10/article33275518.ece
08 December 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||BJP leader questions lack of APMCs in Kerala||The BJP alleged on Monday that the Left parties, which are opposing three new farm sector laws, are following double standards by not implementing Agricultural Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) Act in Kerala, which is ruled by the Communist Party of India (Marxist). Addressing presspersons here, BJP State spokesperson Ganesh Karnik questioned the Left parties for extending their support to the Bharat Bandh called on Tuesday when Kerala itself does not have APMCs. Mr. Karnik, a former MLC, alleged that the protest against the farm sector laws in Delhi were being led by commission agents and middlemen. Though the government has invited them for talks, a majority are not turning up, indicating that most are not farmers, he claimed. He also said the Opposition parties were desperate and were misguiding farmers on the three farm sectorlaws. “Farmers should not fall prey to the designs of the Opposition parties,” he said. “There is a political conspiracy behind the Bharat Bandh called on Tuesday. Farmers should notsupport it.” He also said that the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Agriculture, which comprises members of different political parties, had discussed the three farm sector laws before finalising them. Now, some the members in the same committee, including Congress members, are opposing them, he said. Mr. Karnik said that the government had not done away with APMCs and providing Minimum Support Price under the market intervention scheme. Farm produce was purchased by providing MSP just this October and November, he said.  The BJP spokesperson said that when Sharad Pawar was Union Agriculture Minister in 2011, he had proposed to amend the farm sector laws. The Congress, in its election manifestos of 2014 and 2019, had also proposed it. Mr. Karnik also said the Union government has addressed the fertiliser issue by ensuring that the market has enough supply of neem-coated urea. There has been no scarcity of fertilisers in the past six years, he claimed. The BJP leader said the three farm laws were meant for the welfare of farmers and to provide them better price for their produce.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bjp-leader-questions-lack-of-apmcs-in-kerala/article33275517.ece
08 December 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||e-Lok Adalat in Dakshina Kannada on December 19||A mega e-Lok Adalat will be organised in 40 courts in Dakshina Kananda on December 19 from 11 a.m. to 2 p.m., according to B. Muralidhar Pai, Principal District and Sessions Judge, Dakshina Kannada. Addressing presspersons here on Monday, he said the adalat would be held under the auspices of Karnataka Legal Services Authority. He said t 3,679 cases were settled in the e-Lok Adalat held in the district on September 19, 2019. The aim is to settle 8,000 cases this year. The judge said that litigants need not attend the adalat. They should be represented by their advocates. If required, the litigants will be contacted through conference calls.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/e-lok-adalat-in-dakshina-kannada-on-december-19/article33275524.ece
08 December 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Artist Udyavara Madhava Acharya is no more||Well-known poet, short story writer, choreographer, director, and theatre artist Udyavara Madhava Acharya of Udupi passed away at a private hospital in Manipal on Monday. He was 80 and is survived by his wife, a son, and three daughters, including Bharatanatyam dancer Bhramari Shivaprakash. He had served as a professor of economics at Bhandarkar’s College in Kundapur from 1965 to 1969, and later at Poornaprajna College, Udupi, from 1969 to 1996. His skills in writing short stories and drama came to the limelight during the 1970s. Mr. Acharya was active in the field of theatre and launched an institution called ‘Samuha’ through which he directed many dramas and ballets. His experimental theatrical works such as ‘Shabari’ and ‘Matte Ramana Kathe’ received many accolades. Mr. Acharya was a recipient of the State-level Rajyotsava award. His short story collections included Baagida Mara . He directed dance dramas ‘Urvashi’ and ‘Nenapadalu Shakunthale’. Mr. Acharya was known as a person always keen to experiment something new in the Kannada theatre sphere. Mangalore University had prescribed his book Paachaya as text for undergraduate arts students. Mr. Acharya was a member of the then Karnataka Janapada Academy. He choreographed classical dance and Yakshagana performances for his theatre productions. Rangasthalada Kanavarikegalu, Hu Midi Haadu (for children), and Radhe Emba Gathe are his noted poem anthologies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/artist-udyavara-madhava-acharya-is-no-more/article33275520.ece
08 December 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Three deaths, 38 new cases||Dakshina Kannada reported three COVID-19 deaths and 23 new cases on Monday. With this, the toll in the district touched 720. With 65 patients being discharged, the active cases in the district stood at 497. Udupi district reported 15 new COVID-19 cases. The number of active cases in the district increased to 154.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/three-deaths-38-new-cases/article33275523.ece
08 December 2020||mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Farm outfits threaten rasta roko today||Karnataka Rajya Raita Sangha (Hasiru Sene) and Karnataka Prantha Raita Sangha (KPRS) have said that their members will stage rasta roko at Nanthoor Circle on National Highway 66 in the city at 10 a.m. on Tuesday, as part of the Bharat Bandh called over the perceived “anti-farmer” legislation introduced by the Centre. The Bunder Shramika Sangha has said that its members will strike from work in Bunder and stage a protest near Karmikara Katte in Old Port to support the bandh call.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/farm-outfits-threaten-rasta-roko-today/article33275525.ece
08 December 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Anna Bhagya rice seized||Food department officials and police in Udupi district uncovered another attempt to sell rice, set aside to be distributed under the Anna Bhagya scheme, in the open market after purchasing it from the beneficiaries. They arrested three persons in this connection and seized 560 kg of rice and a car. The rice bags were being transported in the car on Katpady Mattu Road on Sunday. An official release said on Monday that the car had 16 bags of rice, each weighing 35 kg. The price of the rice seized is estimated at Rs. 6,120. The arrested have been identified as Imthiaz Ahmed, 36, of Yellapura in Uttara Kananda, Mohammed Naseer, 27, of Kundapura, and Mohammed Tayoob, 29, of Koteshwara village in Udupi district. Of the three, two tried to escape but were caught by the police. They told them that they had purchased the Anna Bhagya rice from the beneficiaries and were on their way to sell it for a higher price.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/anna-bhagya-rice-seized/article33275526.ece
08 December 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Briefly||There will be no power supply in some areas in the city from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. on Sunday on account of maintenance work. The areas to be affected are Gandhinagar, Shantinagar, Vidyanagar, Panjimogaru, Bangra Kuluru, Derebail, Malemar, Akash Bhavan, Mullakadu, Kavoor Katte, Shiva Nagar, Kunjathbail, Kottara Chowki, Marakada, Ballalbagh, Lalbagh, Jail Road, C.G. Kamath Road, Sri Devi College Road, M.G. Road, Viveknagar, and Bejai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/briefly/article33275522.ece
08 December 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Train timings revised||Indian Railway has revised the schedule for long-distance special trains for the convenience of passengers. Passengers have been requested to check if there are any changes to the timings pattern or services before the commencement of journey. Updated information may be accessed by checking the official websites/mobile app of the Railways. They are https://enquiry.indianrail.gov. in/ntes/index.html, https://www.irctc.co.in/nget/train-search, and https:// play. google.com/store/apps/details?id=cris.org.in.prs.ima (for Android users) and https://apps.apple.com/in/app/irctc-rail-connect/id1386197253 (for IOS users).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/train-timings-revised/article33275527.ece
08 December 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Bengaluru-Chennai Expressway work may be flagged off by PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is expected to flag off work on the much-awaited 263-km-long Bengaluru-Chennai Expressway, a greenfield project that seeks to reduce travel time between two major south Indian cities. Though the date for launch of the work has not yet been finalised, Mysuru MP Pratap Simha told The Hindu that senior officials from the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways (MoRTH) had already visited Bengaluru for an inspection of the project. He said the works on the key road infrastructure project could be flagged off before the elections are held to the Assembly in Tamil Nadu, whose term is scheduled to end in May 2021. Mr. Modi had similarly launched the work on widening the Mysuru-Bengaluru highway in February 2018 ahead of the May 2018 Assembly elections in Karnataka. Meanwhile, National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) officials said bids had been invited for one package of the expressway project that passes through three States – Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, and Tamil Nadu. While 72 km of the expressway will fall in Karnataka, about 85 km will be in Andhra Pradesh and 106 km in Tamil Nadu. Touches 3 States The expressway project starts from Hoskote and passes through Malur and Bangarpet in Kolar district before entering Andhra Pradesh and eventually reaching Sriperumbudur in Tamil Nadu. Though initially it was conceived as an eight-lane expressway, the width of the road was reduced to six-lane and eventually four-lane due to budgetary constraints. However, officials said the land acquisition process for the project has been completed. The estimated cost of the project is around Rs. 17,000 crore and is scheduled for completion in two-and-a-half years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bengaluru-chennai-expressway-work-may-be-flagged-off-by-pm/article33275071.ece
08 December 2020||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Concern over rise in ‘honour killings’||The Karnataka State Commission for Women’s chairperson, Pramila Naidu, has expressed concern over growing incidents of “honour killings’’ and violence against women in the Mysuru-Mandya belt. She told mediapersons here on Monday that she had extensive interaction with district officials in Mandya as the commission has been receiving a large number of complaints pertaining to caste feuds and violence and female exploitation besides “honour killings’’. She cited the case pertaining to a girl from Scheduled Caste community who had married a Vokkaliga five years ago but it transpired that the girl was done to death by the groom’s family. “The case is under investigation and has made progress and we are following it’’, she said. Ms. Naidu, who took over as the chairperson of the commission in March this year, said she is holding review meeting in all the districts of the State and has covered 18 districts so far. The thrust is on creating greater awareness among the school and college-going students about gender equality and the laws pertaining to it so that female exploitation and violence against women are reduced. Child marriages The commission was also cognisant of the fact that child marriages continued to occur despite a law against it and wanted to involve the anganwadi workers to spread awareness among people against such practices. Ms. Naidu said the commission would submit a report to the government over the state of affairs and the imperatives of stringent punishment to the guilty in case of violence against women so that it acts as a deterrent.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/concern-over-honour-killings-in-mysuru-mandya-belt/article33275515.ece
08 December 2020||Special Correspondent,KARNATAKA||State farmers sign 8.80 lakh postcards opposing farm laws||Nearly 8.80 lakh farmers of the State have signed postcards and letters opposing the Centre’s farm laws. The same will be passed on to President Ram Nath Kovind through the AICC, said KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar here on Monday. The Kisan Congress led by Sachin Miga took up the signature campaign following the direction from the party high command. The Congress has extended support to the Bharat Bandh call given by the farmers on Tuesday opposing the farm laws.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/farmers-sign-880-lakh-postcards/article33275085.ece
08 December 2020||December 08 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Support for Bharat bandh from various quarters||Various progressive groups and Left parties in Mysuru have expressed their support for the Bharath Bandh called on Tuesday by the farmers seeking a repeal of three farm laws passed by the Centre. At a meeting convened in the city, the progressive groups led by P. Mallesh, farmers’ leaders Hoskote Basavaraju and Urga Narasimhe Gowda flayed the Centre for passing laws which, they said, were inimical to the welfare of the farmers and agricultural community as a whole. They appealed to the people to extend their support to the farmers and make the bandh a success. Kurubur Shanthakumar of the Karnataka Sugarcane Cultivators Association said it was a question of farmers’ survival and farmers across the State will stage demonstrations urging the Centre to repeal the laws. The amendments to the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 has drawn the ire of the farming community and Mr. Shanthakumar said it has dealt a crippling blow to the farmers who are already reeling under distress in the agricultural sector. Farmers fear a gradual withdrawal of minimum support price mechanism consequent to the enactment of the farm laws and it would leave them vulnerable to the fluctuations of the market, he added. ''People from different sections of society including the trade unions and the Opposition parties have extended their support to it and hence the question of ‘enforcing’ the bandh does not arise. People are sympathetic to the farmers cause and hence it will be voluntarily observed, said Mr. Shanthakumar. Meanwhile, members of the Raitha Krishikarmikara Sanghatane went around the wholesale markets in the city including the one on Devaraja Urs Road, meeting the roadside vendors etc and distributed pamphlets explaining the reasons for the strike called on Tuesday. The RKS said the new law is favourable to the wealthy investors and will facilitate easy purchase of farm land and its conversion while farmers will end up working as daily wagers on what used to be their own land. ‘Bandh, not a solution’ However, the hotel owners’ association and other groups which opposed the bandh called by the pro-Kannada groups last week, will not support the Bharat Bandh called by the farmers. The association said it was in solidarity with the cause of the farmers but bandh was not the answer in times of economic crisis brought about by the pandemic-induced lockdown, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/support-for-bharat-bandh-from-various-quarters/article33275550.ece
08 December 2020||December 08 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Twin towers to come up in city||It has decided to refer three private university bills — New Horizon University Bill, 2020, The Atria University Bill, 2020, and The Acharya University Bill, 2020 — for its sub-committee for a detailed study. However, the Cabinet approved the University of Horticultural Sciences (Amendment) Bill, 2020, and the Protection of Interest of Depositors in Financial Establishment Bill, 2020, to safeguard the interest of the depositors, particularly in private limited banks. Both these would be tabled in the ongoing winter session of the State legislature. Bhadra project Among the major projects approved by the State cabinet is the revised detailed project report of the Upper Bhadra Project amounting to Rs. 21,473 crore. The meeting presided by Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa approved the establishment of Centre for Internet Ethical Things in collaboration with International Institute of Information Technology (IITB), Bengaluru, and World Economic Forum. The cabinet reportedly granted three acres of gomala land for agricultural purposes to Nadoja Salumarada Thimmakka at Madigondanahalli village in Kuduru hobli, Magadi taluk, Ramanagaram district. It also approved appointment of PPP concessionaires to implement the energy efficiency projects in streetlights in all urban local bodies and city corporations of the State where the estimated cost exceeds Rs. 10,000 crore. The Cabinet has reportedly rejected granting permission to carrying out mining and transportation activities round the clock with respect of major minerals in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/twin-towers-to-come-up-in-city/article33275072.ece
08 December 2020||December 08 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Nicotine extraction plant at Nanjangud opposed||The Anti-Tobacco Forum in Mysuru has objected to the setting up of a nicotine extraction plant at Nanjangud near here. Honorary Advisor of Cancer Patients Aid Association and Anti-Tobacco Forum, Mysuru, Vasanthkumar Mysoremath, raised the issue during a question and answer session of a recent webinar organized by Institute of Global Tobacco Control on “Tobacco Control – Learnings from India” with WHO’s National Professional Officer Pravin Sinha and contended that nicotine extracted at the plant can be used for vaping, which has been banned in India. He said the State government has licensed a tobacco company to extract nicotine at its plant in Nanjangud. The Department of Industries and Commerce, Government of Karnataka, had approved the setting up of the Rs. 265 crore plant to extract nicotine “knowing fully well that the liquid/crystals can be used for vaping/hookahs”, he contended. The Anti-Tobacco Forum was in the process of organising a protest against the “public health disservice”, Mr. Mysoremath contended. His objection to the plant followed a series of questions at the webinar on the Central government continuing to subsidise tobacco cultivation despite being a signatory to WHO’s Framework Convention on Tobacco Control (FCTC) and insurance companies being allowed to invest in shares of cigarette manufacturing companies, besides MPs and MLAs interacting with farmers and promising them better prices for the tobacco they grow. Mr. Sinha, in his response, said India had made gradual progress in its tobacco control initiatives and claimed that the Union Commerce Ministry had been cutting the tobacco crop size by 5 per cent every year. He recalled that the Tobacco Control legislation of 1975 was replaced with COTPA in 2003 and the smoke-free rules were introduced in 2008 followed by warning on the front panel of the cigarette pack in 2009 and on both sides a couple of years later. He said the progress on tobacco control initiatives in India has been gradual and sustainable. Right now, the proportion of people who do not use tobacco is much larger than the ones who use tobacco, Mr. Sinha contended and said the focus remained on smokers and potential smokers while the Ministry of Labour was also working on alternative livelihood for beedi workers. For any policy to be successful, Mr. Sinha said there was a need to engage with the community. Their ace for tobacco control in India will be engagement with the youth, he remarked.  The Department of Industries and Commerce, Government of Karnataka, had approved the setting up of the Rs. 265 crore plant to extract nicotine “knowing fully well that the liquid/crystals can be used for vaping/hookahs”, activist contended.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nicotine-extraction-plant-at-nanjangud-opposed/article33275551.ece
08 December 2020||December 08 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||More trains resume service from Mysuru||The Mysuru Division of South Western Railway resumed services of a few unreserved trains for the first time in over 8 months in what is considered to be a step towards normalisation of operations in the months ahead. This included 3 unreserved services and 2 reserved services. With this 20 pairs of trains are now operating from Mysuru station – including weekly and bi-weekly services – as against 50 pairs of trains that used to be handled during the pre-pandemic days. However, the occupancy rate in all the three unreserved trains was negligible but railway authorities said that this tends to be the norm for the initial few days. The originating passenger traffic increases over a period of time, they said. In all, 171 passengers boarded the three unreserved trains in Mysuru on Monday. While 53 passengers boarded the Mysuru-Bangarpet MEMU train at Mysuru, there were 92 passengers on the Tipu Express while only 26 passengers boarded the Mysuru-Chamarajanagar passenger service. In addition to these three unreserved trains, the authorities also resumed the Mysuru-Vijaypura-Solapur Gol Gumbaz Express – which is a fully reserved service – and in all there were 330 bookings from both Mysuru and Bengaluru as against the carrying capacity of 1,940 passengers. For Chamarajanagar -Tirupati express there were 79 bookings. It was pointed out that Chamundi Express, which was among the first trains to be resumed after the lockdown was announced in the third week of March, initially used to run with handful of passengers. It began as a 16-coach service with 1,020 seats. But the occupancy rates gradually increased to over 95 per cent and now the train runs with 21 coaches with 1,938 seating capacity and the occupancy is almost 100 per cent. Coaches were augmented based on the passenger patronisation, said the officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/more-trains-resume-service-from-mysuru/article33275553.ece
08 December 2020||December 08 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||No place to quench thirst||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/no-place-to-quench-thirst/article33275070.ece
08 December 2020||December 08 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Trio sell rented laptops online||The Baiyappanahalli police on Tuesday arrested three people for allegedly renting out laptops in bulk from companies and then selling them on online market platforms. At the time of their arrest, the police recovered 96 laptops worth Rs. 45 lakh from the trio. The accused – Pasha, 25, Mohiddin, 26, and Prateek Nagarkar, 36 – are engineering dropouts who were unable to get jobs. They decided to set up an IT solutions firm. Initially, they took a few laptops on rental basis to start their company. However, the business failed and they were forced to shut down. But instead of returning the rented laptops, they sold them online and made a huge profit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/trio-sell-rented-laptops-online/article33275080.ece
08 December 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||All arrangements ready for voting in 5 southern districts||All arrangements are in place for the local body polls in the district on Tuesday. Polling officials collected election materials and reached 2,271 polling booths set up in 72 grama panchayats and six municipalities. Voting will begin at 7 a.m. and go on till 6 p.m. A total of 17,82,587 voters, including 9,43,588 females, 8,38,988 males and 11 transgender persons are eligible to exercise their franchise in the district. A total of 11,355 officials have been deployed for the election duty. Polling officials have been asked to use face shield, mask, sanitiser and gloves. Polling agents should also use face shield, mask, sanitiser and gloves. Voters should clean their hands with sanitiser while entering and exiting the booths. COVID patients Those who tested positive for COVID-19 after 3 p.m. on December 7 can cast their vote by visiting the respective polling booths in PPE kits between 5 p.m. and 6 p.m. The COVID-19 positive voters will be allowed to exercise their franchise at the end of voting after others standing in the queue cast their votes. They should bring the certificate provided by a designated medical officer in Form 19 C. Officials said that steps had been taken to conduct the elections in a free and fair manner. Of the total polling stations, 349 have been identified as sensitive and 67 as critical. In order to ensure transparency and monitor any untoward incidents, measures have been taken to webcast all proceedings from 40 sensitive/critical stations on the election day. In the rest of the sensitive/critical stations, proceedings will be videographed. Security strengthened Security has been strengthened in the district in view of the polls. District Police Chief P.S. Sabu said that 4,034 police personnel would be deployed to ensure the peaceful conduct of elections. As many as 5,462 candidates are in the fray in the district. These include 82 candidates for district panchayats, 789 for six municipalities, 508 for 12 block panchayats and 4,083 for 72 grama panchayats.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/all-arrangements-ready-for-voting-in-5-southern-districts/article33275481.ece
08 December 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||UDF confident of big win in Alappuzha||The Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) will win big in the local body polls in the district, District Congress Committee (DCC) president M. Liju has said. Mr. Liju says the UDF is poised to wrest the Alappuzha district panchayat from the Left Democratic Front (LDF) for the first time in its history. “We will end the LDF’s dominance in the district panchayat. We are confident of winning 16 seats out of 23. The favourable political atmosphere, winnable candidates, clubbed with the LDF’s failure to live up to the expectations all these years will deliver the local body to the UDF,” the DCC president told The Hindu . He says the UDF has high expectations in municipalities, block panchayats, and grama panchayats. “In 2015, we won four out of the six municipalities. This election, we will wrest Mavelikara and Kayamkulam municipalities, while retaining Alappuzha, Cherthala, Haripad and Chengannur. Of the block panchayats, the UDF will emerge victorious in eight. We will be voted to power in at least 40 grama panchayats in the district,” Mr. Liju says. Candidate selection The DCC president says a controversy-free candidates’ selection has boosted the UDF’s chances in the district. “Compared to the previous elections, the number of rebel candidates is relatively small,” he says, adding several Congress district leaders contracting COVID-19 in the run-up to the polls has not impacted the UDF’s prospects. According to Mr. Liju, Ministers from the district have failed to contribute to the development of Alappuzha. “The LDF government is engulfed in controversies. They tried to highlight the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board as a big achievement on the development front. But it has all fallen apart after wrongdoings in the Keala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board came to the light. Despite having members from Alappuzha in the State Cabinet, the district has not seen much development. All these things will be reflected in the polls,” the DCC president says. He says that it will be largely a direct fight between UDF and LDF in the district. “In several wards, LDF and BJP have reached a secret pact to defeat the UDF. But still, it is going to be a direct fight between the UDF and LDF in majority of the seats,” Mr. Liju says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/udf-confident-of-big-win-in-alappuzha/article33275471.ece
08 December 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Election postponed as candidate dies||Election to Ward 7 of the Chettikulangara grama panchayat has been postponed following the death of Left Democratic Front (LDF) candidate K. Mahadevan Pillai, 60. No change Election officials, however, said that voting to the block panchayat and district panchayat divisions would be held in the ward as scheduled. Pillai died after collapsing in his house on Sunday night. Although he was taken to a hospital his life could not be saved.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/election-postponed-as-candidate-dies/article33275482.ece
08 December 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Ghats reports out of poll scene||Idukki is witnessing a polarisation based on political issues this time where as the Madhav Gadgil and K. Kasturirangan reports on the Western Ghats ruled the roost in the last local body elections. General issues confronting the district have taken a back seat and issues such as corruption, gold smuggling and related cases, narcotic cases, and inquiries by Central agencies are being raised by the Left Democratic Front (LDF), United Democratic Front (UDF), and the National Democratic Alliance. Those inimical to the Gadgil and Kasturirangan reports had a say in the last elections and the issue is conspicuous by its absence in election campaigns now. The agitations against the Western Ghats reports were spearheaded by the High Range Samrakshana Samiti (HRSS), an umbrella organisation under the Church. The HRSS won the Lok Sabha election in 2014 and many grama panchayats in the high ranges in the 2015 polls in association with the LDF. Nearly 70 persons won in the local body elections riding the anti-Western Ghats campaigns last time. “It is not only the HRSS but also the issues raised by it are absent in the election scene,” says a leader of the Bharatiya Janata Party. Farm sector “There was a consolidation of votes in polls till the last Lok Sabha elections under the anti-Gadgil/Kasturirangan campaigners, especially in the high ranges,” says Manojkumar, a businessman at Kattappana. He says the Western Ghats reports or crisis in the farm sector have not been raised, instead the recent issues raised in the public realm are being discussed in political platforms. Generally, local issues come for discussions in the local body elections. However, such issues have failed to get attention. District Congress Committee president Ibrahimkutty Kallar says the Gadgil and Kasturirangan reports have lost relevance with the HRSS out of the poll scene. Moreover, when new issues come they will be naturally raised in campaigns. According to an LDF election campaigner, the front is highlighting the welfare measures initiated by the State government during the pandemic outbreak and the steps taken to improve the living standards of the poor. The Western Ghats issue has no relevance in the local body elections now, he says.  Issues such as corruption, gold smuggling and related cases, and inquiries by Central agencies hog the limelight||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ghats-reports-out-of-poll-scene/article33275394.ece
08 December 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||1,453 booths in Idukki, 171 of them sensitive||As many as 9,01,593 voters will take part in the local body elections in 1,453 polling booths in the district on Tuesday. The electorate will choose members to 16 divisions in the district panchayat, 104 divisions in eight block panchayats, 792 wards in 52 grama panchayats and 69 wards of the Kattappana and the Thodupuzha municipalities. The district has the remotest tribal grama panchayat of Edamalakkudy in the Munnar Wildlife Division. The Adimaly block panchayat has the largest number of Scheduled Tribe voters. Elaborate security arrangements have been made under the leadership of the District Police Chief for the smooth conduct of the elections. There are 107 polling stations which are considered sensitive and 21 of them are in remote areas. The coordination of the polling arrangements will be from the Collectorate and in remote polling stations, police wireless sets will be used for transferring information to the headquarters at Painavu.  Voters have been advised to keep a pen and clean hands using sanitisers before and after entering the polling stations. Physical distance should be maintained in the queue and all should wear facemasks. Polling officials have been transported to the polling stations in remote areas. In the plantation areas, special vehicles were arranged for the movement of officials on Tuesday morning. A special control room will function at the Collectorate on the polling day. The phone numbers are 04862-232340, 232400, 232410, 232449, 94955 34622, 94959 29220, 94063 28171, 94964 39144 and 94965 01830.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1453-booths-in-idukki/article33275472.ece
08 December 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||BJP twisting history, says Venugopal||The BJP-led National Democratic Alliance government at the Centre is twisting history, Congress leader K.C. Venugopal has said. Speaking to mediapersons here on Monday, Mr. Venugopal said that the BJP was trying to twist the history of the country to destroy the past realities in the country. Union Minister V. Muraleedharan should apologise to the public in the State for his statement which insulted former Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru, Mr. Venugopal said. Mr. Muraleedharan had mocked Jawaharlal Nehru over the famous Nehru Trophy boat race. The move of the Central government to name the second campus of the Rajiv Gandhi Centre for Biotechnology in Thiruvananthapuram after late RSS ideologue M.S. Golwakar was questioning the conscience of the public, Mr. Venugopal said. The divide and rule policy of the BJP would not materialise in the State, he said. The civic body polls in the State would be in favour for the UDF, he said. The criminalisation of CPI(M) in politics would help the UDF to get the upper hand in the polls, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bjp-twisting-history-says-venugopal/article33275404.ece
08 December 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||Fronts exude confidence of victory||With just a few days left for the elections, the leaders of Left Democratic Front, United Democratic Front and Bharatiya Janata Party came face to face in Kannur during a programme organised by the Kannur Press Club, here on Monday. CPI(M) district secretary M.V. Jayarajan, Congress district president Satheesan Pacheni and BJP district president N. Haridasan, who are in the forefront of the elections, expressed their views and hope for victory in the elections. ‘Secular stance’ Mr. Jayarajan said that the LDF was facing the elections by projecting its stance against communalism. The Congress, which had allied with the religious organisations, would not be able to counter the communal politics of the Modi government. The alternative to the BJP was the Left. The Bihar elections were proof of this, he said, adding that the UDF alliance with the Welfare Party would be opposed by secularists. He said the development programmes of the State government would also be an issue in the elections. Pension for farmers, floor prices for vegetables, and raising schools to international standards were the achievements of the State government. The LDF would win more institutions, seats, and votes in the election. Mr. Jayarajan said that with the entry of Kerala Congress (M) and LJD into the LDF, the mass base had increased. With regard to the gold smuggling case, he said those involved in the illegal activity would be brought before the law. The party had nothing to hide in this regard. UDF alleges intimidation Mr. Pacheni said that the CPI(M) was using the tactics of intimidation and subjugation in an attempt to win the election. The audio of a CPI(M) local leader threatening against the setting up of a campaign board in the yard of a candidate’s house in the Chief Minister's native place had gone viral on the social media. He was confident that the UDF would win a landslide victory in the election in the district. Mr. Pacheni said that the Left Front, which ruled the Kannur Corporation for four years, had undermined development. But the people had benefited from the one-year rule of the UDF. The district panchayat was not doing anything to solve the drinking water problem. Fronts a failure: BJP BJP district president N. Haridas said that the people had come to realise that the Left Front and UDF were responsible for the developmental backwardness of the State. The main slogan of the BJP in the elections was development. The Congress government that has ruled the country for 60 years and the UPA government that has ruled the country with the support of the CPI(M) were governments that had done nothing for the progress of the country. But the Narendra Modi government that has ruled the country for the past 6 years had brought about amazing developments in the country, he said.  Most of the development work in the State was the administrative achievements of the Narendra Modi government. The Left and the UDF were putting forward what they had been saying for the past 25 years and this time as a manifesto in the elections.   Mr. Haridas said that the people who had realised the betrayal by the Left and UDF would support the the NDA.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fronts-exude-confidence-of-victory/article33275407.ece
08 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Over 1,900 Kudumbashree workers in the fray||Over 1,900 Kudumbashree Mission workers in Ernakulam are contesting the local body elections this time. The women force continues to remain the most sought after group when political parties zero in on candidates for election to the Kochi Corporation, Ernakulam district panchayat and panchayats. “There are wards in which more than three-fourth of the executive committee of community development societies is facing the election. Thirty-one chairpersons of the community development societies in Ernakulam are contesting,” said Renjini Sukumaran, district mission coordinator of Kudumbashree. Neighbourhood groups As per the data compiled by the Mission, 1,158 of the total 1,918 candidates are members of neighbourhood groups. Besides chairpersons of the community development societies, the candidates include vice chairpersons of the societies, chairpersons and members of the area development societies, and president, secretary and executive committee members of the neighbourhood groups. Seventeen vice chairpersons of the community development societies and 143 executive committee members of the societies are in the fray. As many as 100 executive committee members of the area development societies are also contesting in various wards. Kothamangalam, Angamaly and Vazhakulam are the regions having the maximum representation of Kudumbashree workers. In Kothamangalam, 172 Kudumbashree members are in the fray while the corresponding figure in Angamaly and Vazhakulam is 173 and 172. In other areas Kavalangad has 25 Kudumbashree members contesting in various wards. The situation is no different in Angamaly municipality, where 27 members of the neighbourhood groups and secretaries of the area development societies are trying their luck. In Malayatoor panchayat, 22 Kudumbashree workers are in the fray. Nearly 120 women belonging to the Mission are candidates in various areas under Palluruthy. The representation in Kumbalangi alone is 19. C.N. Mohanan, district secretary of the Communist Party of India (Marxist), said the increasing participation of Kudumbashree workers in the local body elections was a recognition of their contributions to society. “They have good grassroots-level connections. It is also a sign of the responsibilities and tasks that women can undertake in our civic bodies,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/over-1900-kudumbashree-workers-in-the-fray/article33275434.ece
08 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||House gutted in fire||A tiled-roof house at Safdar Hashmi Lane in Pachalam was gutted in a fire that broke out early Monday morning. No one was injured as the four-member family staying on rent ran out of the house as fire engulfed the building. A preliminary estimate by the Department of Fire and Rescue Services cited short circuit as the possible reason for the fire. The family had initially thought that the fire was caused due to a leak from the cooking gas cylinder. The inspections revealed that there was no such leakage. Fire force personnel said three of the four rooms in the house were completely destroyed in the fire. Two fire tenders from the Club Road station and one from Gandhinagar were pressed in to service. The timely response of the personnel helped in checking the spread of fire to nearby houses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/house-gutted-in-fire/article33275424.ece
08 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||First Water Metro ferry launch postponed to January||The first ferry of the Water Metro project is expected to roll out of the Cochin Shipyard in January 2021, following which it will undergo extensive trials along routes identified for the project, before commencing operations in the Vyttila-Kakkanad corridor from February. Sources in the shipyard and Kochi Metro Rail Limited (KMRL) attributed the month-long delay in launching the first ferry – an air-conditioned 100-seater vessel – to difficulty in sourcing spares from Europe, particularly Germany, due to the pandemic situation. It resulted in a few mandatory quality inspections being postponed, they said. The initial delay will be made up for in the delivery of subsequent vessels. The delivery of four vessels in the next lot will be advanced from April to March. “Our aim is to take delivery of all the twenty-three 100-seater vessels before the November 2021 deadline. The shipyard is confident of adhering to timelines to deliver vessels in different lots,” said KMRL sources. Shipyard sources attributed the delay in rolling out the first ferry to difficulty in sourcing components in the wake of the pandemic and the time taken by manufacturers to provide components as per unique specifications of the ferries. A few vendors have been directed to send items by air, to overcome delay in marine shipments. Care has been taken to keep the weight of each component under check, since it would affect the draft and power of each vessel. Despite the pandemic-induced delay, it was an achievement to be able to roll out the first ferry within 16 months of the shipyard being awarded the tender in September 2019, they said. Work on terminals The construction of terminals is under way at nine of the 16 locations in the Greater Kochi area. As many berthing spaces were identified for berthing the 23 Water Metro vessels. More terminals will be built in the second phase when fifty-five 50-seater ferries are expected to be launched. The terminals in Vyttila and Kakkanad are expected to be ready in January. Land will be acquired from a private landowner to house the terminal proposed for an intervening halt at Eroor. The Water Metro’s control room will be readied adjacent to its Vyttila terminal, it is learnt. Efforts are under way to hew out adequate parking spaces near each terminal since approach roads to most terminals are narrow. Commercial space too had been envisaged at the terminals, but at a lesser scale than the commercial space at Metro stations, metro sources added.  After the Vyttila-Kakkanad route, ferries will operate in the busy Ernakulam-Fort Kochi and Eloor-Cheranalloor routes. The terminal works are progressing here. Work on a terminal is under way at the Marine Drive waterfront near the High Court Junction.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/first-water-metro-ferry-launch-postponed-to-january/article33275426.ece
08 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Fronts go all out to woo elderly voters||The key political fronts in the district are busy ensuring that voters aged above 70 years turn up at the polling booths amid the pandemic situation. From taking an account of the elderly voters to arranging transportation facilities to and from polling booths, the poll managers are working overtime to woo them as they fear that people above 70 years may be reluctant to step out of their homes. An average estimate by the political parties peg the minimum number of voters aged above 70 years in a ward between 50 and 100, but it may go up in some wards with larger number of voters. “We have taken an account of the elderly voters. Vehicles will be provided exclusively for them to reach the booths,” said K.I. Kuriakose, local secretary of the Communist Party of India (Marxist), Angamaly. “Those having ailments will receive the help of their children to cast their votes. Despite the pandemic, we are confident that the elderly will reach the polling booths,” he said. T.K. Jayan, outgoing Congress councillor representing the Kadayappilly ward in the Kadungallor panchayat, said that over 150 of the total 1,700 voters in the ward were people above 70 years. “We have made arrangements to help the elderly reach the booths. The health protocol will be ensured, especially for the senior voters,” he added. However, a section of the voters above 70 years remains apprehensive of exercising their franchise this time, considering the risks associated in venturing out of their homes. They are still in two minds about casting their votes fearing that they may get infected. The district election officials have pointed out that the voters may carry their own pens to sign in the register as part of the safety precautions. They have to use sanitiser before entering and leaving polling booths. The wearing of masks is compulsory. Only three voters will be permitted to enter the polling booth at a time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fronts-go-all-out-to-woo-elderly-voters/article33275431.ece
08 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Tough choice for visually challenged||With no Braille-enabled handbooks provided for local body polls, hundreds of visually challenged voters may find it challenging to exercise their franchise in the local body election. “During the last Parliament election, the visually challenged voters were provided with handbooks to get an idea of the order of the candidates as displayed in the electronic voting machines. Before voting, I studied the handbook and understood the order of the names in the machine and voted,” said B. Anilkumar, State president of the youth wing of the Kerala Federation of the Blind. The federation has a membership of around 6,000 persons, who have blindness of 75% or above. The number of persons with lesser blindness may come to around 10,000 in the State, said Mr. Anilkumar. No external help The handbook had helped the visually challenged persons to vote on their own without seeking external help. Without the handbook, the visually challenged ones who have learned Braille script may find it difficult to vote for the candidates of their choice, said Mr. Anilkumar. “This time, we have to blindly trust the aides to vote. Yet, we cannot be assured that our votes would be cast for the persons of our choice as we have to depend on others to find out the order of the candidates in the machine for voting,” he said. “During the last Parliament election,” said Teekkaram Meena, Chief Electoral Officer, Kerala, “the Election Commission provided handbooks in Braille script for the blind after holding consultations with the organisations of the visually challenged persons at the national level.” The facility proved to be helpful for them to vote, said Mr. Meena. Confirming that no handbooks would be available for the visually challenged voters, State Election Commissioner V. Bhaskaran said they could seek the help of an aide to vote. All the voting machines provided for the local body polls are Braille-enabled ones. Those familiar with the Braille script can use the facility. Others may have to seek the help of an aide, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tough-choice-for-visually-challenged/article33275437.ece
08 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Cashing in on their strong local connect||Shiby Gopalakrishnan was vocal when asked to list her achievements as a Kudumbashree worker in Kuzhippilly panchayat in Vypin. As chairperson of the community development society (CDS), she said she had been at the forefront of the fight against COVID-19 and played a key role when floods ravaged the region in 2019. She is hopeful that the welfare activities will help her win the election to Ward 3 in the panchayat as representative of the Left Democratic Front (LDF). Third year “It is my third year as chairperson of the CDS in Kuzhippilly. The voters are aware of the various activities that I have undertaken in these years,” she said. Ms. Gopalakrishnan had worked as a member of the community kitchen that was opened to feed the needy during the pandemic crisis. “Kudumbashree workers have been taking care of COVID-19 patients and their families,” she added. Tessy Paul, chairperson of the CDS in Karukutty, is contesting the election as an LDF candidate in Ward 11 of Karukutty panchayat. “I have a strong connect with the voters as a representative of Kudumbashree. It is a tough fight, considering the fact that this ward has been a traditional UDF-stronghold,” she said. Sindhu Manoj, chairperson of the CDS in Vadakkekara, is contesting as a Left candidate from Ward 16 of the panchayat.  Patient ear “I have completed six years as chairperson and was able to earn the care and attention of our voters. I believe that women always lend a patient ear to the problems faced by the people. We can also play a better role when confronted with problems being faced by women and children,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cashing-in-on-their-local-connect/article33275432.ece
08 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||278 more test positive for virus||As many as 278 new COVID-19 cases were confirmed in Ernakulam district on Monday. Four of the new patients had arrived from outside the State while 203 were infected through local transmission, said a communication from the district administration. There are 64 cases in which the source of the infection is not known. Seven health workers are among the infected. The communication said that 354 people had recovered from the infection. While 603 people were brought under home observation, 2,903 completed their period of observation in their homes. There are 24,806 people under observation at present. As many as 58 people were admitted to hospitals and first-line treatment centres in the district on Monday, while 86 were discharged. A total of 3,519 samples were sent for testing from government and private facilities in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/278-more-test-positive-for-virus/article33275428.ece
08 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||276 problem booths in district||A total of 276 polling booths in Ernakulam district have been identified as problem-prone, according to the district administration. Of this, 246 are under the Ernakulam Rural limits and the remaining in Kochi city. More police personnel will be deployed in these booths. Two policemen will be posted in such booths. Webcasting will be available in 38 of the booths identified as problem-prone. Video recording of the proceedings will be held in the other booths. In interiors There are 10 booths under Ernakulam Rural police that are located in the interiors of the district. An additional electronic voting machine will be provided in these booths as it would take time to replace one in case of an emergency. The total number of polling booths in the district is 3,132.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/276-problem-booths-in-district/article33275430.ece
08 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||HMS pledges solidarity with agitating farmers||While expressing solidarity with the ongoing strike by lakhs of farmers in New Delhi, the Hind Mazdoor Sabha ( HMS) has demanded that the Centre completely roll back the rules that triggered the massive protest. Inaugurating a dharna in front of the BSNL office here, Thampan Thomas, national secretary of the HMS, said the new rules would lead to further marginalisation of farmers. The rules were aimed at unduly helping mega corporate firms. This was the reason workers across the country had joined hands with the farmers. They too may launch an indefinite strike if the Central government remained adamant in its stand, Mr. Thomas said. Tomy Mathew, State general secretary of HMS, was among the leaders who spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hms-pledges-solidarity-with-agitating-farmers/article33275421.ece
08 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||HC seeks govt. response to Kunju’s bail petition||The Kerala High Court on Monday asked the State government to file a statement in response to a petition by former Public Works Minister V.K. Ebrahim Kunju, now in judicial custody, seeking bail in the Palarivattom flyover corruption case. When a bail petition was taken up for hearing, Justice P.V. Kunhikrishnan asked the government to inform the court about the progress of the Vigilance investigation and the reasons for his continued custody. State Attorney K V. Sohan submitted that the Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau(VACB) wanted him in its custody for four days for interrogation. He was questioned earlier only for a few hours. Senior counsel appearing for Mr. Kunju submitted that he was still in hospital and his health condition was “precarious”. There was also a possibility of the investigation team taking him away from the hospital. Therefore, he sought an early hearing on the bail petition. The court adjourned the hearing on the petition to December 11. Mr. Kunju, in his bail petition, said his arrest was a politically motivated one. The immediate trigger for his arrest was the local body elections and the government wanted to fend off the onslaught launched by the Opposition on various issues.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hc-seeks-govt-response-to-kunjus-bail-petition/article33275487.ece
08 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||The Hindu agent dies in accident||P. K. Sukumaran, 62, a resident of Jawahar Road, Thykoodam, and an agent of The Hindu , was knocked down by a speeding private bus near the metro station at Thykoodam here on Monday afternoon. Mr. Sukumaran suffered serious head injuries and was rushed to a nearby private hospital where he was declared dead. The funeral will be held at the public crematorium in Thripunithura at 10 a.m on Tuesday. The police said that a case was registered against the driver under Sections 279 (rash driving) and 304A (causing death by rash and negligent act) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/the-hindu-agent-dies-in-accident/article33275420.ece
08 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Global maths conference||A four-day International Conference on Number Theory and Discrete Mathematics will be hosted online by Rajagiri School of Engineering and Technology from December 11 to 14. The event is being organised by Ramanujan Mathematical Society to mark the 100th year of passing away of the legendary Indian mathematician, Srinivasa Ramanujan. Mathematicians from around 20 countries will deliver talks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/global-maths-conference/article33275422.ece
08 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||HC moved again to vacate stay on probe||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Monday filed a petition in the High Court seeking to vacate an interim order staying the probe into the irregularities in the implementation of the LIFE Mission project at Wadakkanchery, Thrissur. A single judge had stayed the CBI probe against the Chief Executive Officer of the LIFE Mission in connection with the alleged Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act (FCRA) violations in the implementation of the housing project at Wadakkancherry. This was the second petition being filed by the CBI seeking to vacate the stay. The single judge had earlier dismissed its plea for vacating the order.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hc-moved-again-to-vacate-stay-on-probe/article33275435.ece
08 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||ambulance drivers bail plea rejected||The Kerala High Court on Monday dismissed the bail plea of Nowfal, the ambulance driver of Kayamkulam and an accused in a case relating to rape of a COVID-19 patient on board an ambulance. The prosecution charge was that the 19-year-old COVID patient was raped by the accused while taking her in the ambulance to a COVID care centre in Pathanamthitta.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ambulance-drivers-bail-plea-rejected/article33275436.ece
08 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||IMA State unit to join all-India protest||Modern medicine doctors in Kerala will join the Indian Medical Association’s (IMA) all-India protest against the Union government decision to allow Ayurvedic practitioners from certain streams to perform general surgery. The stand-up protest would be held between 12 noon and 2 p.m.. Doctors, in groups of 20, would follow the COVID-19 protocol while staging the protest. And, doctors from all 109 IMA branches in the State would join the protest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ima-state-unit-to-join-all-india-protest/article33275438.ece
08 December 2020||Kollam,KERALA||292 cases, 329 recoveries in Kollam||Kollam reported 292 new COVID-19 cases, two deaths and 329 recoveries on Monday. Those who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 include 287 contact cases, two NRIs, one person who had travelled from another State and two cases without any known source. The Health Department also confirmed that the deaths of an 80-year-old Vilakudy resident and a 75-year-old Pandithitta resident are due to COVID-19. Patients with no known source include a 55-year-old Maruthady resident and a 21-year-old from Nilamel. The district has 14,666 persons under observation. 287 in Alappuzha The district logged 287 new cases and 312 recoveries. It also recorded three COVID-19-related deaths. The fresh cases include 277 patients who contracted the disease through local transmission, while the source of infection of seven remains unknown. Three who came from other States also tested positive. 202 in Kottayam A total of 202 persons tested positive in Kottayam. Of the fresh cases, all but three, contracted the virus through local contact. With 24 cases, Kottayam reported the highest number of cases, followed by Kadaplamattom with 20 cases. Changanassery and Vaikom reported 13 and 11 cases respectively With 354 recoveries, the district currently has 4,577 active cases while 11,276 persons are under observation. 121 in Pathanamthitta As many as 121 tested positive in the district. Of the fresh cases, 115 persons contracted the virus through local contact and of this, the contact source of 29 persons are yet to be ascertained. Among the local bodies, Ezhamkulam reported 17 cases, followed by Adoor and Koduman with nine cases each. There were 160 recoveries. (With contributions from Alappuzha, Pathanamthitta and Kottayam bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/292-cases-329-recoveries-in-kollam/article33275475.ece
08 December 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Murder of CPI(M) worker: two held||The East Kallada police have arrested two persons in connection with the murder of Manilal, a resort owner and a CPI(M) worker from Munroe Thuruthu, who was stabbed to death on Sunday. While the CPI(M) alleged it was a planned and politically motivated murder, the BJP leadership in the district said the incident was orchestrated by the CPI(M). Ashokan, 54, the prime accused, reportedly attacked Manilal after he left LDF booth office around 8.30 p.m. Though he was rushed to the hospital, his life could not be saved. Along with Ashokan, Sathyadevan, 56, was also arrested for abetting the murder. CPI(M) charge Condemning the incident CPI(M) leaders said the murder was carried out by RSS activists. “The murder undeniably is a product of organised attempt by the RSS to disrupt law and order in the region, with just 24 hours remaining for the local body elections. The RSS is deliberately trying to create an atmosphere of terror in a region with no history of violence. We condemn the brutal murder of Comrade Manilal. We also urge all democratic forces to protest against this brutal murder,” said A. Vijayaraghavan, LDF convener. Meanwhile, the BJP leadership denied the allegations and said Ashokan had no connection with the BJP or the RSS. “Both Manilal and Ashokan are CPI(M) workers and the allegation is baseless. A personal rivalry led to the incident,” said BJP district president B.B. Gopakumar told a press meet. The police said the accused and the victim had been runing service villas in Munroe Thuruthu and an investigation was on to find the motive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/murder-of-cpim-worker-two-held/article33275473.ece
08 December 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Issuance of postal ballots to COVID-19 patients begins||The issuance of postal ballots to facilitate voting of COVID-19 patients and those under quarantine has started in Kozhikode district. A special team at the collectorate is coordinating the task by complying with the health protocol. On the first day itself, about 2,200 such special voters from various local bodies were considered for allotting postal ballots. Officials said the existing list of such voters with the district election authorities would be updated on a daily basis. All special voters who are identified before 3 p.m. on the day prior to voting will be eligible to use the postal ballot service. Special polling teams comprising a special polling officer, a special polling assistant and a police official will visit these voters to complete the process. The voters will have to sign an application and self-declaration ahead of using the postal ballot. The list of eligible special voters is now being prepared using an official list submitted by designated health officers. The District-level Disaster Management Authority is also in action to speed up the process and reach out to all eligible special voters without giving room for any complaint. Representatives of various political parties are also keen on identifying eligible special voters under each local body and get their names listed in the district-level special voters’ record. Similarly, those under home or institutional quarantine are also in touch with local Health Department officials for securing postal ballots. According to the election authorities, those testing positive for the virus after 3 p.m. on December 13 will be allowed to cast their votes directly at the allotted polling booths. Such voters will be permitted to enter the place after 5 p.m. wearing PPE kits. Only those who turn up at the specified booths within 6 p.m. will be allowed to cast their votes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/issuance-of-postal-ballots-to-covid-19-patients-begins/article33275411.ece
08 December 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Congress, CPI(M) on the wane: Muraleedharan||V. Muraleedharan, Union Minister of State for External Affairs, has said that the Central agencies had reached the State to help the Chief Minister investigate the case of gold smuggling via the diplomatic cargo in July. At a Meet the Leader programme organised by the Calicut Press Club here on Monday, Mr. Muraleedharan said that Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had sought the help of the Centre in investigating the case. But now, Mr. Vijayan was against the Central agencies probing the case, he said, adding that only the Chief Minister knew whether the probe would reach him. He said that the CPI(M) leadership should not think that they could always retain their cadre base through money power. The CPI(M) had no political future in the country, he said. Mr. Muraleedharan said that the State would witness big changes in the three-tier local body polls. The welfare schemes envisaged by the Centre in the crucial sectors of drinking water, road and housing had not been implemented at the grassroots in the State. Significantly, the BJP had successfully implemented these schemes in Palakkad municipality where the party was in power, Mr. Muraleedharan said. With this local body election, the Congress party would be wiped out in the State. As as last ditch effort, that party had made an electoral understanding even with extremist organisations. The Congress had also succumbed to the political whims of the Indian Union Muslim League, he said. The Christian community, which traditionally used to support the Congress, was shifting towards the BJP. Several Congress leaders would also soon join the party, Mr. Muraleedharan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/congress-cpim-on-the-wane-muraleedharan/article33275403.ece
08 December 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Questions on timing of Pulse Polio drive||The Health Department is planning to hold the yearly Pulse Polio immunisation drive in the State on January 17 though the COVID-19 situation is not fully under control. According to sources, the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare sent a circular to the State Principal Secretaries on November 19 saying the National Immunisation Day for polio for 2021 had been scheduled for January 17, when a bivalent oral polio vaccine would be administered to children below five years. State officials were informed that micro-plans, a set of population-based components that are used to run health-care projects, would have to be revised soon. Awareness campaigns would have to be launched and health workers equipped in advance. The focus area would be migrants and those living in slums. Some officials here, however, are cautious about the implications of the steps. “The COVID-19 situation is not yet fully under control. Experts have predicted a spurt in cases after the local body elections this month. In such a scenario, we are not sure if the plan to hold the Pulse Polio drive will be a wise move,” one official told The Hindu . He pointed out that States could postpone it by another couple of weeks. Possibility of camps The officials are also confused if it is possible to conduct big immunisation camps in public places. The note by the Union Ministry had pointed out that “it has been nine years since the country reported a wild polio virus infection in 2011.” The risk of virus import from other countries and the emergence of vaccine-derived polio virus cases, however, warranted maintenance of immunity in the population. Against this backdrop, the India Expert Advisory Group on Polio had recommended in October that one round of vaccination be held next year. The State Health Department here sent a circular to all district medical officers on December 1 to submit micro-plans by December 5.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/questions-on-timing-of-pulse-polio-drive/article33275486.ece
08 December 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Protests in city today in support of farmers||Several organisations in Kozhikode have come forward expressing solidarity with the farmers, who are protesting against the farm bills in Delhi. Left parties have called for a massive protest in the city on Tuesday in support of the farmers, as part of the nation-wide hartal called by the farmers’ organisations. Elamaram Kareem, MP, will lead the protest march. The Asanghatitha Meghala Thozhilali Union will organise a separate protest meeting at Kidson Corner at 4 p.m., secretary Viji P. said. The Kozhikode District Committee of the KNM will organise meetings in different parts of the district on Tuesday to express solidarity with the farmers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/protests-in-city-today-in-support-of-farmers/article33275395.ece
08 December 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Mananchira Square, foot overbridge thrown open||The renovated Mananchira Square and the mechanised foot overbridge on Rajaji Road were thrown open to the public on Monday, weeks after they were formally inaugurated. The foot overbridge was opened on November 2 amidst much fanfare, but with some finishing works pending, it could not be put to use at the time. The bridge, which has escalators and lifts, was built across Rajaji Road in the heart of the city at a cost of Rs. 11.3 crore, connecting V.K. Krishna Menon Indoor Stadium and the mofussil bus stand. Binu Francis, Secretary of the Kozhikode Municipal Corporation, said the bridge had been well accepted by the public. It was expected to ease traffic on the busy road to a great extent. Favourite haunt The renovated Mananchira Square was opened in the last week of October. However, the popular hang out destination of Kozhikode remained closed considering the difficulty in controlling crowd on account of COVID-19 threat. The square was renovated at a cost of Rs. 1.7 crore by the Tourism Department. The facilities offered include an amphi theatre, cobbled pathways, domes, ornamental lighting, notice boards, toilet block, stalls and cafeteria. The square will now be open from 6 a.m. to 10 a.m. for morning walkers and later from 3 p.m. onwards for the evening crowd. All facilities will now be available for the public, except the toilet block and cafeteria. “The tendering process for the maintenance of these two could not be started as the council is not in session. It will be done as soon as the new council assumes power,” Mr. Francis said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mananchira-square-foot-overbridge-thrown-open/article33275409.ece
08 December 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Gold appraiser booked in loan fraud case||A gold appraiser has been booked by the Town police for his alleged involvement in supporting a woman and her lady staff to obtain gold loan worth Rs. 1.69 crore by pawning about 5.6 kg of fake gold ornaments. Police sources said the man had already been interrogated by the special investigation squad and his arrest would be recorded soon. According to the investigation squad, K.K. Bindu, the prime accused, had employed seven of her lady staff to pawn fake gold ornaments with a nationalised bank in Kozhikode city using their personal bank accounts. Though all the women claimed ignorance of the quality of pawned ornaments, they would be quizzed again along with some other bank staff. Similar frauds The Wayanad native who was remanded in judicial custody on Sunday would be taken into custody again for probing her involvement in other similar financial frauds.  An officer attached to the Town police station said she had reportedly operated a multi-level marketing fraud as well in Thrissur. The fake gold case was the third such fraud. In the first incident, she had allegedly cheated investors in a chit fund scheme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/gold-appraiser-booked-in-loan-fraud-case/article33275400.ece
08 December 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Fewer lab tests lead to dip in count of new cases||A fall in the number of lab tests led to a corresponding dip in fresh COVID-19 cases in Kozhikode district on Monday. As many as 383 people tested positive for the virus when 3,186 samples were tested. According to the District Medical Officer, 368 of the new cases were through local transmission of the infection. The source of infection of six others is not known. Kozhikode Corporation had the highest number of locally acquired infections at 99, followed by Kodiyathur (33), Ramanattukara (23), and Feroke (20). There are 6,367 active cases from the district. Two deaths each were reported at the Government Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode, on Sunday and Monday. In Malappuram While 541 people tested positive for COVID-19, 864 persons recovered from the disease in Malappuram on Monday. As many as 514 people contracted the virus through direct interaction with infected persons. However, there were 21 cases whose source of infection could not be traced. District officials said that 7,074 people were being treated across Malappuram for COVID-19. While 532 of them were in COVID-19 hospitals, 315 were in first-line treatment centres and 293 in second-line treatment centres.  In Wayanad A total of 63 people, including a health worker, tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Wayanad district on Monday, taking the total number of active COVID-19 cases to 1,768.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fewer-lab-tests-lead-to-dip-in-count-of-new-cases/article33275402.ece
08 December 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Rights panel directive to provide permanent job to bank staffer||The Kerala State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) has asked the government to provide a permanent job to a daily wage labourer who had exceeded the age limit for appointment when a post was created for her. The complainant, P. Salija from Kallurutti in Omassery, Kozhikode, had been working as a sweeper in the Kozhikode Primary Cooperative Agriculture and Rural Development Bank since 2007. She was working on a daily wage basis as there was no post of sweeper in the bank then.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rights-panel-directive-to-provide-permanent-job-to-bank-staffer/article33275401.ece
08 December 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Tough fight in 7 Palakkad municipalities||The seven municipalities in Palakkad, one of the largest districts in the State, are offering a tough competition for the three main contenders in the civic body election: the United Democratic Front (UDF) led by the Congress, the Left Democratic Front (LDF) led by the CPI(M), and the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) led by the BJP. The toughest fight will naturally be in the Palakkad municipality, the only civic body ruled by the BJP in the State. Gutsy show The three fronts are putting up a gutsy show here. They are trying desperately to overcome internal issues over denial of seats to certain people. When the BJP State leadership concentrates its focus on returning to power in Palakkad, UDF and LDF appear hell-bent on unseating BJP. What vexes the UDF and the LDF was the fact that the BJP ruled Palakkad for five years in spite of being in minority. The BJP had 24 seats in the 52-member council. The UDF had 18, the LDF nine, and the Welfare Party one. When UDF was in power in four municipalities (Pattambi, Mannarkkad, Cherpulassery and Chittur Thathamangalam), LDF ruled the Shoranur and Ottapalam municipalities. The fight is tight in Mannarkkad, Cherpulassery, Shoranur, and Chittur Thathamangalam. In Mannarkkad, UDF and LDF had 13 seats each and BJP had three seats. But UDF clinched the municipality through a draw of lots. Both fronts are jostling for an upper hand in Mannarkkad, in spite of issues within them. This time, the outcome can be unpredictable here. The Chittur Thathamangalam municipality, one of the oldest municipalities in the State, used to be a bastion of the Congress, but not any longer. The LDF is putting up a strong fight here, and trying hard to capitalise on the rebel issues the UDF faced here in the initial days of the nomination. In the outgoing council, UDF had 18 seats and LDF, 11. The LDF is confident of improving its tally this time. Although UDF ruled Cherpulassery, both LDF and BJP are putting up a strong fight to unseat the Congress here. High hopes The LDF has gone for ‘consensus candidates’ with the objective of toppling UDF. The LDF has high hopes in Cherpulassery. In Pattambi, UDF appears to be comfortable. The LDF is facing challenges in Shoranur and Ottapalam, though a change of rule is not expected.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tough-fight-in-7-palakkad-municipalities/article33275602.ece
08 December 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||More recoveries than new cases in Palakkad||Palakkad district registered 202 new COVID-19 cases and 323 recoveries on Monday. Among the new cases, 93 had contracted the disease through interaction with infected persons. However, the source of infection could not be traced in 104 cases. Among the new cases, there were three health workers and two persons who came from outside.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/more-recoveries-than-new-cases-in-palakkad/article33275600.ece
08 December 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Polls lend a helping hand to pandemic-hit Tholpavakoothu artistes||Digitisation in electioneering has not yet completely wiped out the traditional modes of communication. Realising the strength and power of puppetry, a number of candidates in Palakkad and neighbouring districts have turned to Tholpavakkoothu for their electioneering.The traditional art form using leather puppets is being used for the first time for electioneering in Kerala. The State Election Commission had used it during the Lok Sabha election last year to spread awareness among the voters in Palakkad. Tholpavakoothu exponent Ramachandra Pulavar and his son Rajeev Pulavar evolved special electioneering capsules lasting from 60 to 90 seconds as a desperate measure to overcome the destructive spell in art cast by the COVID-19 pandemic. “The idea clicked soon after we put it forth, and dozens of candidates approached us for an electioneering programme using Tholpavakoothu,” said Rajeev. The programmes done for candidates of the United Democratic Front (UDF), the Left Democratic Front (LDF), and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) have been shot on video and used for electioneering through the social media. Its potential “This is where we could further learn the immense potential of the medium, especially while using the new media platform,” said Rajeev. Rajeev and team made leather puppets of important leaders such as Narendra Modi, Amit Shah, Rahul Gandhi, Pinarayi Vijayan and Ramesh Chennithala. “We could use these leaders for their respective parties. The response from the candidates in neighbouring districts of Malappuram and Thrissur has been good,” he said. Apart from Rajeev, Rahul Pulavar, Sanju, Manoj, Vijay and Lalu were involved in the Tholpavakoothu electioneering. According to them, the election has saved the neglected art of Tholpavakoothu from sinking into oblivion, especially as many of the artistes had been rendered jobless by the lockdown necessitated by COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/polls-lend-a-helping-hand-to-pandemic-hit-tholpavakoothu-artistes/article33275450.ece
08 December 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Fronts keep their fingers crossed||As the electorate in Pathanamthitta gets ready to vote on Tuesday in a crucial three-tier election, they will not only be electing their respective local administrators but also giving an indication about the Assembly elections due next year. With 25 panchayats and two municipalities in its possession, the LDF had a slight lead during the previous term and hopes to maintain its winning streak on the back of a slew of welfare measures. The UDF, on the other hand, is equally confident that they would be wresting power in more local bodies, while keeping intact its dominance in 22 panchayats, two municipalities and the district panchayat, where it emerged victorious in 2015. BJP’s hopes The hopes of the BJP-led coalition, meanwhile, rests primarily on its rising vote-share in the district since the previous Lok Sabha elections . Unlike the previous local body polls in 2015, at least a couple of municipalities and around 10 panchayats besides a handful of seats in the district panchayat here are witnessing an exceedingly three-way contest this time. The UDF leadership, which regards the election more as an opportunity to deal a blow to the State government, had its campaign focused primarily on the allegations of corruptions against the Pinarayi Vijayan-led government. The Left leadership, on the other hand, stands unfazed by the ongoing controversies and has bet big on the various development projects initiated by the government The BJP, however, used the occasion more to gauge the efficiency of the party network at the grassroots, while also assessing the popularity of the welfare initiative rolled out by the Narendra Modi government at the Centre. DCC charge Meanwhile, District Congress Committee (DCC) president Babu George on Monday accused the Pathanamthitta district administration of misusing the State Election Commission’s recommendation to arrange postal voting for the COVID-19 patients and those in quarantine to favour the LDF. According to him, the administration had kept the political parties in the dark by not providing the list of voters eligible to use the facility. The officials owing allegiance to the CPI(M) were making extensive intervention to influence the voters to vote in favour of the LDF, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fronts-keep-their-fingers-crossed/article33275469.ece
08 December 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||3,698 in fray in Pathanamthitta||As many 3,698 candidates are in the fray for the three-tier local body elections in the district which goes to poll on Tuesday. The district has a total electorate of 10,78,599, including 4,36,410 men, 4,98,374 women and two transgender voters in panchayats. The four municipalities have 66,328 male and 77,484 female voters, besides one transgender voter. Of the total 3,698 candidates, 2,803, including 1,533 women, are contesting to the panchayats while the block panchayat divisions have 153 male and 189 female candidates. Of the 493 candidates to the municipal wards, 258 are women. In the district panchayat, 24 out of the 60 candidates are women. A total of 8,844 officials, including 1,459 Presiding Officers and 1,459 First Polling Officers, have been deployed across the 1,459 polling stations across the district. As per COVID protocol The proceedings during the election day to be held from 7 a.m in strict adherence to the COVID-19 protocol will begin with a mock polling in the presence of the candidates’ agents. Elaborate security arrangements have been put in place with a Deputy Superintendent of Police (Dy.SP) in charge of the security in each of the election divisions. These officials will be assisted by an 11-member striking force. This is in addition to a strike force to be operated directly under the District Police Chief and also from 23 police stations. A total of 102 group patrol teams have been deployed under different police stations. As many as 179 booths in Pathanamthitta have been identified as sensitive. Meanwhile, webcasting facilities have been set up at five booths, identified as trouble-prone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/3698-in-fray-in-pathanamthitta/article33275476.ece
08 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Stage set for polls to 90 local bodies||The stage is set for Tuesday’s elections for 1,727 wards of 90 local bodies in the district, including the 100-ward Thiruvananthapuram Corporation. Polling is from 7 a.m. to 6 p.m. A ‘mock poll’ will be held at 6 a.m. at all polling stations in the presence of the candidates or their polling agents. Many of the urban wards are witnessing three-cornered battles among the Left Democratic Front, the United Democratic Front (UDF), and the Bharatiya Janata Party-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA). The contest in the Thiruvananthapuram Corporation is a keenly watched one with the LDF looking to retain power and the BJP hoping to increase its seat tally from the 35 it won in 2015. District Collector Navjot Khosa, who is also the District Election Officer, appealed to the voters to strictly observe the COVID-19 protocol at the polling stations. Sanitiser should be used on entering and exiting the booths. The district has 28,26,190 voters, including 14,89,287 women, 13,36,882 men, and 21 transgender persons, according to data released by the district administration on Monday. As many as 18,37,307 voters are in the electoral rolls of the three-tier panchayats. Among them, 9,73,932 are women, 8,63,363 are men, and 12 are transgender persons. The Corporation has 8,02,799 voters. They include 4,18,065 women, 3,84,726 men, and eight transgender voters. Among the four municipalities, Neyyattinkara has 64,475 voters in all. Of these, 34,236 are women and 30,239 are men. Attingal has 32,658 voters, including 14,983 women and 17,675 men. Varkala has 32,985 voters, including 17,985 women and 15,000 men. Nedumangad has 55,966 voters in all, including 30,086 women, 25,879 men, and one transgender voter. 3,281 polling stations Thiruvananthapuram district has 3,281 polling stations — 814 in urban areas and 2,467 in rural regions. Elections are being held for 1,299 wards in 73 grama panchayats, 155 wards in 11 block panchayats, 26 district panchayat divisions, 147 wards in the four municipalities and 100 wards of the Thiruvananthapuram Corporation. Polling materials were distributed to election officials — 16,405 officials are on duty in the district — along with COVID-19 safety kits that include personal protective equipment kits, sanitiser, masks, face shields, and gloves. Senior election officials and the police intervened following heavy rush, in violation of the COVID-19 protocols, at the distribution centre at Nalanchira on Monday morning. Identification documents Voters can produce any of the following documents for establishing their identity: the electors photo identity cards (EPIC) issued by the Election Commission of India, passport, driving licence, PAN card, Aadhaar card, photo-affixed SSLC book, and photo-affixed passbooks issued by nationalised banks within six months prior to the election. New voters can use identity cards issued by the State Election Commission.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/stage-set-for-polls-to-90-local-bodies/article33275478.ece
08 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Polls may set State’s political trajectory||Stakes are high for the ruling Left Democratic Front (LDF), United Democratic Front (UDF) and BJP-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) as an estimated 88.26 lakh voters prepare to exercise their franchise in the first phase of the local body elections in Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Pathanamthitta, Alappuzha and Idukki districts on Tuesday. The elections, widely seen as a bellwether of Kerala’s voting behaviour, have the potential to set the State’s political trajectory ahead of the Assembly elections in 2021. An opportunity The LDF sees an opportunity to cement a victory on the merit of its governance record. It feels a local body win would power its bid for a second innings in power next year. In contrast, th Congress and BJP exude confidence that voters, revolted by ‘corruption and criminality’ in the administration, would deliver a crushing repudiation of the Pinarayi Vijayan government. The polls seem far from being a straightforward triangular fight. The three opposing fronts have accused each other of entering into secret electoral understandings at the ward level and feared cross-voting could upset their calculations. The alliances also fear that recent political realignments have altered the electoral landscape in some measure. The LDF, UDF and NDA have found themselves fighting on new fronts while striving to prevent their traditional strongholds from falling into the hands of opponents. For instance, the BJP strongly feels that it has improved its acceptance among minorities, especially Christians, and made inroads into the traditionally Left backward class vote base. The LDF feels that the induction of the Jose. K. Mani faction of the Kerala Congress (M) would improve its chances in traditionally pro-UDF Central Travancore. The UDF feels the corruption in the government has vexed traditional LDF voters and they would vote for the Congress-led alliance. The LDF and UDF see a scant chance for the NDA’s brand of majoritarian politics in Kerala. The alliances are equally apprehensive that the COVID-19 scare would suppress voter turnout. Hence, political agents and election workers spent much of Monday knocking on doors, issuing slips and attempting to coax supporters to overcome their inertia and vote early so that a possible low turnout does not hamper their winning prospects.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/polls-may-set-states-political-trajectory/article33275442.ece
08 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||All eyes are on Corporation poll outcome||It is not often that an election to a city Corporation commands such attention and triggers discussions even outside its limited geography, as the run-up to the election to the Thiruvananthapuram Corporation has witnessed this year. The unexpected results in the previous elections has much to do with this. This reflected in the campaigns of the three main fronts, which was more focussed, rigorous, and louder than it was in 2015. Even on the penultimate day, candidates and workers were not leaving anything to chance, with some of them carrying out the sixth round of house visits in their wards, as part of the silent campaigning. These were mostly quick stops to request the voters to head to the polling booths early in the morning and to remind them of the candidates’ respective positions on the list. Prestige battle for LDF For the ruling Left Democratic Front (LDF), which had to be content with just 43 seats in the 100-member council in 2015, this is a prestige battle to regain a comfortable majority. With this aim, they were the first off the block in announcing the candidates, of which a high percentage are women, and in campaigning. But the Bharatiya Janata Party, which made an unexpected jump from six seats to 35 in the previous elections, is hoping that their strong show last time could make more voters choose them. This is something their leaders had repeatedly claimed in their campaign rallies.  Much to regain for UDF Yet, at the same time, leaders of the LDF and the United Democratic Front (UDF) have maintained that the BJP will lose some of the seats they won unexpectedly last time. The UDF, which slipped from the main Opposition to a third-place finish with 21 seats in 2015, has much to regain. Although they were slow to announce their candidates and in beginning the campaigning, they did pick up pace in the last three weeks, putting up spirited campaigns in many wards, especially the ones they lost to the BJP last time. Though rebel trouble for the UDF is much lesser compared to last time, it still has a problem on its hands in some wards. The LDF too has a rebel in one ward. While the LDF focussed much of its campaign on the developmental achievements of the Corporation and the State government over the past 4-5 years, the UDF and the BJP focussed on the recent controversies over gold smuggling and the ongoing investigations by Central agencies. Making an already tight triangular contest further intriguing is the entry of smaller players such as Thiruvavananthapuram Vikasana Munnettam (TVM), Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI), Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP), and a host of Independents, the votes polled by whom could become the deciding factors in close contests.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/all-eyes-are-on-corporation-poll-outcome/article33275637.ece
08 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||3,272 new cases in weekend slump||As it happens every Monday in the State, a slump in COVID-19 testing in Kerala over the weekend by nearly half the number of tests done daily saw the new cases reported on the day drop to 3,272. The samples tested in the past 24 hours were 33,758. However, despite the dip in testing, the test positivity rate remained steady at 9.69%, indicating that the State’s COVID case graph is on an extended plateau, with disease transmission remaining low yet steady across districts. With 4,705 recoveries – more recoveries than new cases – being reported on Monday, the active case pool dipped below 60,000 to 59,467 cases. So far, 5,77,616 patients have made a recovery from COVID-19 in the State. Death toll Another 23 deaths were marked as COVID deaths by the State on Monday, taking the official toll till date to 2,441. Kozhikode reported five deaths, Thiruvananthapuram and Thrissur four each, Malappuran and Alappuzha three each while Kollam and Kottayam accounted for two deaths each. Official figures put the number of critically ill COVID-19 patients currently undergoing treatment in ICUs in various hospitals in the State at 857, with 204 of them requiring ventilator support. Local transmission Of the 3,272 new cases reported on Monday, 3,223 are locally acquired infections, while in 49 cases, the Health Department reported a history of travel outside the State. Among the locally acquired infections, 328 cases have not been traced to a known source of infection, while the number of health-care workers who got infected was 36, according the Health Department. District-wise break--up Among the districts, Malappuram reported 541 cases, Kozhikode 383, Thrissur 304, Kollam 292, Alappuzha 287, Ernakulam 278, Thiruvananthapuram 255, Kottayam 202, Palakkad 202, Kannur 154, Idukki 146, Pathanamthitta 121, Wayanad 63, and Kasaragod 44 cases.  Despite the dip in testing, the test positivity rate remains steady at 9.69%, indicating that the State’s COVID case graph is on an extended plateau||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/3272-new-cases-in-weekend-slump/article33275489.ece
08 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Pinarayi counters Cong., BJP charges||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Monday expressed the confidence that the administrative record of the Left Democratic Front (LDF) government would sway voters and not the swarm of scandalous election eve lies circulated by the Congress and the BJP. Mr. Vijayan’s statement seemed to be a riposte to the Opposition’s politically explosive claim that the yet-to-be-revealed sworn statements of gold smuggling case suspect Swapna Suresh and P.S. Sarith held incriminating evidence against at least three persons at the apex of the government. Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala and BJP State president K. Surendran, who aired the charges ahead of the first phase of the local body polls on Monday, did not mention any person by name. Instead, Mr. Chennithala attempted to put the onus on Mr. Vijayan to reveal the identity of the “government higher-up” involved in the racket. Mr. Surendran said one of the individuals named in the deposition held a “constitutional office”. He alleged the VIP had accompanied Swapna on foreign trips and gave cover to her foreign currency smuggling runs from Kerala to UAE and other countries. Both leaders said the gold smuggling case and allied scandals would remain on the top of the mind of voters when they set out from the home to exercise their franchise. People’s experience Mr. Vijayan said the lies would have no influence on voters and would vanish like the morning mist on voting day. The people have seen development happen at their doorstep. People had felt confident about the care of the government during the COVID-19 crisis. Community kitchens served citizens. Free ration and food kits reached their homes. The government cared for the infected. Modernised multispeciality hospitals and state-of-the-art primary health care centres welcomed them. The government balanced the revival of production and retail trade without causing an upward spiral in infections. It had earned universal praise for its social security initiatives and developmental activities. In contrast, the United Democratic Front was mired in corruption. Its leaders faced graft charges. At least two MLAs were arrested for conspiracy and fraud. More are under investigation. The National Democratic Alliance’s hopes of victory would be eclipsed when the first results of the polls start trickling in. Its brand of majoritarian politics had no takers in secular Kerala. Moreover, farmer’s agitations, patently anti-minority laws, instances of cow vigilantism, and the recent anti-conversion Ordinance that targeted Muslims in nroth Indian States would cause voters to reject the NDA.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pinarayi-counters-cong-bjp-charges/article33275443.ece
08 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Havildar threatens officer at knifepoint in SAP camp||The Special Armed Police (SAP) quarters at Peroorkada witnessed tense scenes late on Sunday when a havildar threatened a senior officer with a knife. According to the Peroorkada police, the incident occurred by 10 p.m. on Sunday. The havildar, whose name has been undisclosed, allegedly threatened Assistant Commandant Shameer Khan after barging into his quarters. The havildar was apparently miffed over being transferred from Kollam to Thiruvananthapuram Rural for election duty. While the senior officer managed to thwart the attack, he and some others prevented the havildar from jumping from the first floor of the building. The havildar has been hospitalised for psychological treatment. Additional Director General of Police (Armed Police Battalion) K. Padmakumar has instituted a probe into the incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/havildar-threatens-officer-at-knifepoint-in-sap-camp/article33275629.ece
08 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Eight-day Indian classical dance festival from today||An eight-day online Indian classical dance festival, organised as tribute to the late Kapila Vatsyayan, a scholar of Indian classical dance and art who passed away recently, is set to begin on Tuesday. Culture Minister A.K. Balan will inaugurate the programme being jointly organised by the Culture Department, Bharat Bhavan, and State Youth Commission. Bharat Bhavan member secretary and festival director Pramod Payyannur, Youth Commission chairperson Chintha Jerome, Malayalam Mission director Suja Susan George, and Director of Culture Sadasivan Nair T.R. will speak on the occasion. The inaugural performance will feature Bharatanatyam exponent Narthaki Nataraj, the first transgender recipient of Padma Shri. It will be followed by performances by R.L.V. Ramakrishnan (Mohiniyattam), Shijith Nambiar and Parvathy Menon (Bharatanatyam), and Aishwarya Warrier (Mohiniyattam).  Tribute session The separate session will be held to commemorate Kapila Vatsyayan in which noted personalities, including the famed dancer couple V.P. Dhananjayan and Shanta Dhananjayan, Padma Subrahmanyam, dance historian and scholar Sunil Kothari, dance critic Tapati Chowdhurie, playwright Omchery N.N. Pillai, and Communist Party of India (Marxist) Polit Bureau member M.A. Baby will reminisce about the ‘grand matriarch of cultural research’. The dance festival, which will be streamed live on the Facebook page of Bharat Bhavan from 7 p.m. to 9 p.m. on all days, will feature 80 exponents of various classical dance forms, including Bharatanatyam, Kathak, Odissi, Kuchipudi, Mohiniyattam, Manipuri, Kathakali, Rabindra Nritham, Vilasini Natyam, and Chhau Nritham.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/eight-day-indian-classical-dance-festival-from-today/article33275632.ece
08 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||255 new cases and 297 recoveries in capital||The district recorded 255 new COVID-19 cases and 297 recoveries on Monday as the number of active cases dipped slightly to 3,899. The death toll increased to 572 with four more deaths being attributed to the disease. The deceased included a 71-year-old woman who hailed from Kurumamcode, a 72-year-old man who hailed from Anayara, a 75-year-old man who hailed from Chirayinkeezhu, and a 59-year-old woman who hailed from Pettah. The district placed 1,706 people in quarantine on the day, taking the number of people being monitored for COVID-19 symptoms to 31,470 in houses and 115 in various institutions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/255-new-cases-and-297-recoveries-in-capital/article33275634.ece
08 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||A cycle tour by 2 women to promote Kerala||Though the tourist destinations, resorts, hotels, and homestays across the State have been thrown open after the pandemic-induced lockdown, the footfall is yet to pick up as anticipated even as peak tourist season has begun. Kerala Tourism and the stakeholders of the tourism industry is leaving no stone unturned to attract guests from the domestic sector to the State as international flights are yet to resume. Local travellers As the chances of foreign tourist arrivals are bleak in the peak season, the focus is on domestic tourists and the local populace during the forthcoming Christmas and New Year seasons. As the travel and tourism industry is struggling for survival, a cycle tour by two young women travel enthusiasts has begun from Poovar to Wayanad to create awareness among the local people that ‘Kerala Tourism is open and that destinations, beaches, hill stations, waterfalls, adventure parks, hotels, and resorts are safe to visit and stay”. Meera, a 24-year-old from Kochi, and Parvathy, a 22-year-old from Konni, who commenced the tour on Monday, will visit 17 key destinations before reaching Contour Island Resort and Spa in Wayanad on December 16. ‘Safe for women’ Named ‘Wonders of Kerala by Charly’s Angels’, these two women, who met through Instagram, is also conveying the message that Kerala tourism destinations are ‘Safe for women travellers’. After traversing through Chowara, Kovalam, Shanghumughom beach, and Varkala, the women cyclers reached Paravoor on Monday night. Commencing from Kollam, they will visit Ashtamudi, Alappuzha, Kumarakom, Mararikulam, Changanacherry, Thekkady, Munnar, Kochi, Cherai Beach, Athirapally water falls, Kappad Beach, and Nelliyampathy before reaching Wayanad. The ride was jointly flagged off by Baby Mathew Somatheeram, president, Kerala Travel Mart Society (KTM), and Chacko Paul, president, South Kerala Hoteliers Forum (SKHF).  Route In view of the pandemic, the women riders will skip the National Highways and unsafe places while cycling across the State. The cycle tour is an initiative of Citrine Hospitality in association with 1913 PIX and Metro Media. Vinu Vidyadharan, a renowned ad film director, is capturing the golden moments of the trip along with his crew to promote Kerala Tourism. Prasad Manjali, CEO, Citrine Hospitality Ventures, said the initiative would not only help the hotel, travel, and tourism industry directly but also aid in creating economic improvement in the tourism sector and generate revenue for the State. The initiative is supported by Kerala Travel Mart Society, South Kerala Hoteliers Forum, Wayanad Tourism Organisation, Travel Agents Associations of India, Thekkady Destination Promotion Council, and Showcase Munnar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-cycle-tour-by-2-women-to-promote-kerala/article33275599.ece
08 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Directives for COVID positive voters||Electors who have tested positive for COVID-19 or prescribed quarantine after 3 p.m. on Monday should arrive at the polling stations before 6 p.m. on Tuesday to cast their vote. They should submit the certificate issued by the designated health officer in Form 19 (C). They will be allowed to vote only after all other voters, including those in queue at 6 p.m., have completed voting. Before the special voters enter the booths, polling officials and agents should compulsorily wear protective gear. Election procedures applicable to general voters, including the daubing of ink on the finger, is applicable to the special voters also. However, they will not be permitted to touch the electronic voting machines (EVMs) without wearing gloves. Each special voter should use a separate pen to sign the voters' register. The Health Department will transport special voters in government hospitals to the booths.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/directives-for-covid-positive-voters/article33275445.ece
08 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KU invites applications||The University of Kerala has invited applications for admissions to newly launched courses, including MA Politics, International Relations and Diplomacy, MSc Physics (specialisation in Space Physics), and MSc Chemistry (specialisation in Renewable Energy) offered by its teaching departments. Applications can be submitted online throughwww.admissions. keralauniversity.ac.infrom December 9 to 16, a press release issued by the university here on Monday said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ku-invites-applications-for-courses/article33275477.ece
08 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Carol programme||Governor Arif Mohammed Khan inaugurated an online Christmas Carols programme organised by YMCA Thiruvananthapuram on Sunday. Mar Thoma Metropolitan Geevarghese Mar Theodosius delivered the Christmas message.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/carol-programme/article33275631.ece
08 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KGOA condemns move to name RGCB campus after Golwalkar||The Kerala Gazetted Officers’ Association (KGOA) has viewed the Centre’s move to name the new campus of Rajiv Gandhi Centre for Biotechnology (RGCB) after Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) ideologue M.S. Golwalkar as one influenced by mal-intent. Pointing out that the name of the RSS leader had not been attributed to any form of scientific research, the KGOA State secretariat demanded naming of the campus after scientists who excelled in biotechnology or in any other branch of science.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kgoa-condemns-move-to-name-rgcb-campus-after-golwalkar/article33275635.ece
08 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KU special exams||Kerala University will organise special examinations for students who were unable to appear for the fourth semester BA BSc, BCom (choice based credit and semester/career-related), fourth semester MA MSc, MCom examinations that were held earlier this year owing to the COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ku-special-exams/article33275444.ece
08 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||FSETO to take out demonstrations today||The Federation of State Employees and teachers Organisations (FSETO) will hold demonstrations at district and taluk headquarters and government office complexes on Tuesday to express solidarity with the nation- wide agitation by farmers’ unions demanding repeal of the new Farm laws and the Electricity (Amendment) bill, 2020 to pave the way for privatisation of the power sector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fseto-to-take-out-demonstrations-today/article33275446.ece
08 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Last date extended||The Department of Collegiate education has extended the last date for applying online for various scholarships for the academic year 2020- 21 till December 31. The last date for verification and approval by heads of institutions has also been extended till January 15. For details, visitwww.dcescholarship. kerala.gov.inor dial 0471-2306580, 9446780308 or 944609658.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/last-date-extended/article33275447.ece
08 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Applications invited for admission||The General Education Department has invited applications for admission to the sixth batch of the DCA course conducted by Scole Kerala in select government and aided higher secondary and vocational higher secondary schools. Online registration for the course will be open from December 7 onwww.scolekerala.org.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/applications-invited-for-admission/article33275448.ece
08 December 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||KUHS celebrates foundation day||The Kerala University of Health Sciences (KUHS) observed its 11th foundation day on Monday. KUHS Vice Chancellor Dr. Mohanan Kunnummel presided over the function. The university stood firmly along with the government from time when the first case of COVID-19 was reported in Thrissur, Dr. Mohanan said. “Even amidst the pandemic, the university conducted online classes and exams,” he said. Dr. B. Ekbal, chairman of the expert committee on COVID-19 management, delivered a speech on ‘COVID-19: common, uncommon and new common’. The Vice Chancellor presented awards for best teachers in fields of Medicine, Ayurveda, Homeopathy, Dental, Nursing, Pharmaceutical Science, Para Medical and Allied Health Sciences.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kuhs-celebrates-foundation-day/article33275595.ece
08 December 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Farm varsity holds online training for VHSE students||Kerala Agricultural University conducted a five-day online training programme for VHSE-NSS students of 317 schools in the State recently as part of the Subikshakeralam project. The programme, Hitham Haritham, is offered free of cost. More than 5,000 participants, including students, parents and teachers, attended the programme. The primary objective of the programme was to keep the students engaged during the COVID-19 pandemic and lay the foundation for developing agri-based entrepreneurship skills among them. Homestead enterprises such as processing of fruits and vegetables, nursery management, mushroom production and apiculture were the subjects dealt in the online training programme. Experts from the KAU handled the sessions. Central Training Institute under the Directorate of Extension, Mannuthy, collaborated with the VHSE NSS State unit and conducted the online training. Jeevan Babu K., Director of General Education, Kerala inaugurated the Hitham Haritham programme and appreciated the collaborative efforts of the NSS VHSE unit with the university. He urged the support of the KAU for exploiting the potential of students to opt for entrepreneurship in the agriculture sector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/farm-varsity-holds-online-training-for-vhse-students/article33275598.ece
08 December 2020||December 08 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Lack of seroprevalence data may prove costly||As Kerala is preparing to roll out the COVID-19 vaccine, lack of seroprevalence data, either amongst the population or the subgroup of health-care workers in the State, is likely to indirectly affect the optimal use of the vaccine, which is being conserved for specific at-risk populations. Despite recommendations from public health experts and the State-appointed expert committee on COVID-19, the government appears disinclined to conduct a seroprevalence study across the State. While official estimates put the affected State’s population at just 6.3 lakh, a study would reveal the real extent of the spread of the virus in the community and the proportion of the population which might have had prior and silent exposure to the virus. It would have helped the State monitor the trend of infection in the general population, determine the socio-demographic risk factors and assess the geographical spread of the infection. Centre’s stance The Centre has made it clear that at least for the time being, universal vaccination would be impossible and it is likely to be restricted to priority groups, with the health workers coming at the top. However, it is highly likely that a chunk of the workers would have already been exposed to the virus and might have developed natural immunity against SARS-CoV-2. According to virologist T. Jacob John, “SARS-CoV-2 is not an anomalous virus capable of miraculous feats of immune evasion... and it is not invulnerable to our immune defences... and even when antibodies wane, protective immunity after the first infection is probably durable”. “The SARS-CoV-2 seroprevalence data become very important when it comes to prioritising vaccine for non-immune, high-risk groups like health workers because those who have had prior infection would be already protected. There have been several studies which proved that even a mild or even asymptomatic infection can render robust T-cell immunity, which lasts for over six months,”a public health expert points out. Two questions Proper seroprevalence survey, at least among the health workers, would have answered two questions: whether the health-care workers are the actual vulnerable, non-immune group in the State which needs the vaccine on priority and secondly, what is the proportion of this population which is yet to be exposed to COVID-19 and hence should be administered the vaccine on priority. “If seroprevalence data are available, the State could optimally utilise the vaccine, which would initially be available only in limited quantities,” he said However, public health experts point out that the State’s epidemic curve having crossed the peak in October, the State might have left it too late to conduct the survey. Because the antibody levels in blood, indicative of virus exposure, generally tend to wane within three months. Hence, any surveys done now would not be time-appropriate and will be an underestimation of the true picture of the infection in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/lack-of-seroprevalence-data-may-prove-costly/article33275491.ece
08 December 2020||December 08 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Govt. should give what’s due to all communities: Mar Alencherry||Cardinal Mar George Alencherry, Major Archbishop of the Syro-Malabar Church, thinks that India is going through a period of transformation in the democratic practice and the balance of power between major political fronts, essential to a democracy, has been lost. But he is sanguine about pluralistic forces asserting themselves in a bid to cement the unity of the country through its diversity in the no-so-distant future. “India is a diverse country, but hardly any Indian would not like to be identified as one. Therefore, I am sure that the politically intelligent people will find ways and means to surmount this crisis. The pluralistic forces have to assert themselves to keep India’s democracy and that’s already emerging,” Cardinal Alencherry said in a free-wheeling chat with The Hindu on the prevailing socio-political climate. Politics and religion While democracy is the will of the majority, there is a need to segregate politics and religion, as their mixing up will rupture India’s social fabric. “Indians are religious-minded, but extremism in any religion drives a wedge in society, as it causes different interests to come into clash with one another,” he says. Extremism in religion, he says, ironically, cuts at the very root of the values of human goodness and love to be fostered by any religion. Cardinal Mar George Alencherry, Major Archbishop of the Syro-Malabar Church, believes that there is a turmoil-like situation in Kerala society, politics, religion and also in the cultural world. There is discontent and confusion in people’s minds and religio-political extremism is poised to thwart communal amity and peace. Vote bank politics, in Kerala and nationally, has often worked against the interests of the Christian community. “While it is understandable that a government panders to the sentiments of a community that favours it, it should also give what is due to other communities. Whenever we feel that it is not being done, we take it up with the respective government as we believe in a constant dialogue.” Verdicts, implementation On questions pertaining to the unrest over the Sabarimala verdict and the bitter stand-off between the Orthodox and Jacobite factions of the Malankara Church in the wake of a court order in favour of the Orthodox faction, the Cardinal said governments should respect people’s religiosity. “My personal view is that in a democratic country like ours, even court decisions on such issues that affect society deeply should have a praxis of implementation. It will be good to have legislation to ensure that there’s room for discussion in society for the implementation of such verdicts.” While the Church steers clear of party politics, it encourages the faithful to be politically conscious so that they take ‘the right political decisions’ for the common good. Interfaith marriages The Church, he said, is not ideologically or theoretically against interfaith marriages, but it does not encourage the practice either. “We do not want the phenomenon to be promoted. Not because we are against humanity, but we have conviction that the good aspects of Christian life would suffer in certain interfaith marriages. Marriage is a contractual love between two partners and for Christians, it is a sacrament that renders the couple to maintain their faith in Christ and the Church. In some inter-religious marriages, there’s a danger of the Christian partners being forced to compromise on their faith. Further, religion shall not become an aggressive force in marital life. Thirdly, a marriage should not break families and become a reason for disharmony between religions and communities.”  While the Church steers clear of party politics, it encourages the faithful to be politically conscious||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/govt-should-give-whats-due-to-all-communities-mar-alencherry/article33275397.ece
08 December 2020||December 08 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||304 cases, 563 recoveries in Thrissur||There are 304 COVID-19 cases in Thrissur district on Monday while 563 people recovered from the disease. There are 6,355 active cases in the district and 97 people from Thrissur are undergoing treatment in hospitals in various other districts. So far 62,858 COVID-19 cases have been reported in the district and 56,050 people recovered from the disease. According to official statistics, 295 people, including two health works, contracted the disease through local contact on Monday. Of them, 57 patients are above the age of 60 and 17 children are below the age of 10. In all, 4,324 patients are under home observation. In all, 169 people were admitted to hospitals for treatment of COVID-19 on Monday and 2,901 samples were collected for the test.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/304-cases-563-recoveries-in-thrissur/article33275597.ece
08 December 2020||December 08 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Surprise rain||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/surprise-rain/article33275413.ece
08 December 2020||December 08 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||In view of the times||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/in-view-of-the-times/article33275485.ece
08 December 2020||December 08 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Physical distancing in polls!||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/physical-distancing-in-polls/article33275399.ece
08 December 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||DEE suspended for ‘accepting’ bribe||A Deputy Executive Engineer working as Operations Engineer at Guntakal in AP Southern Power Distribution Company Limited has been suspended from service following a video posted by a farmer on social media which purportedly showed him accepting Rs. 1.5 lakh as a bribe for giving new agricultural connection at his farm. SPDCL Superintendent Engineer D.S. Varakumar told The Hindu that a video emerged on the social media in which an outsourced employee (Pole to Pole worker) K. Adinarayana was seen bringing wads of currency (Rs. 1.5 lakh) and handing them over to B. Ravi Babu, the DEE, in his house for providing agricultural power connection to two farmers. Inquiry made “We made a preliminary inquiry and found the incident to be true and have recommended suspension of Mr. Ravi Babu till a detailed internal inquiry is done and proper legal action is taken. The outsourced employee will also be discontinued for being a party to the wrongdoing,” said Mr. Varakumar. A formal letter of suspension was expected tomorrow from the SPDCL chairman. There are 13,000 new agricultural connections to be given in the district and the prospective consumers have paid money to the company. “We have invested Rs. 170 crore for improving the infrastructure like new sub-stations and transformers to provide quality nine-hour day time power supply to all agriculture connections. ,” Mr. Varakumar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/power-official-suspended-for-accepting-bribe/article33275031.ece
08 December 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Big Data, Artificial Intelligence vital for managing business entity’||Emerging technologies like Big Data, Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning are vital for managing any business entity and overcoming cut-throat competition, said speakers at a faculty development programme organised at the JNTU Anantapur School of Management Studies on Monday. University of Hyderabad Pro Vice-Chancellor B. Rajashekhar said for managerial functions ‘DATA’ is the basic raw commodity to deal with. At the inaugural of the AICTE-sponsored online programme on ‘Application of Emerging Technologies in Business’, Mr. Rajashekhar stressed the need for teachers of business schools to learn Data Analytics. The survival of all organisations, business entities, governments, startups including service organizations would depend only on Data Analytics, he said and pointed out that in the data age, personal interaction between buyer and seller had come down and the study of the behaviour of consumer is being analysed by technology. The market is being captured by companies based on business data analytics, which is based on statistics, programming languages, computer database management systems. New MBA course JNTUA School of Management Studies Director M.L.S. Deva Kumar announced that from the academic year 2020-21, the JNTUA had started MBA (Business Data Analytics) on the campus with an intake of 60 students. The faculty development programme would continue till December 12. Suresh Kanulapati, a Data Analyst from TEK Systems Global Services, gave an overview of Bigdata and its characteristics.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/big-data-artificial-intelligence-vital-for-managing-business-entity/article33275032.ece
08 December 2020||BAPULAPADU (KRISHNA DT.),ANDHRA PRADESH||Three killed, four injured as car hits lorry||Three persons, including a couple, were killed and four others suffered injuries in a road mishap at Bommuluru village in the district in the early hours of Monday. The deceased were identified as Ch. Nageswara Rao (70), Tata Rao (65) and his wife Kanaka Durga (60). The mishap occurred when the car in which they were travelling hit a stationary lorry on the national highway, said Hanuman Junction circle inspector D.V. Ramana. The victims were returning after attending a wedding at Bhimavaram in West Godavari district. The injured were rushed to a hospital in Eluru, said SI N. Chanti Babu. Case registered The couple were natives of Yerragondapalli village in West Godavari district. The bodies, which were trapped in the mangled car, were retrieved by using a crane. A case has been registered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/three-killed-four-injured-as-car-hits-lorry/article33275568.ece
08 December 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Horticulture farmers reel under onslaught of Nivar, Burevi cyclones||Horticulture farmers in the district are ruing their fate as they have incurred a loss of Rs. 20 crore in the last ten days due to the impact of Nivar and Burevi cyclones, which was felt in mandals. According to officials, Nivar cyclone had led to over 60% of excess rainfall in Chittoor, clocking 300mm average rainfall between November 25 and 26, thereby causing severe damage to the prime horticulture crops of tomato, banana, chillies and papaya, besides other vegetables. Just when the Nivar’s impact was dying down, another cyclone, Burevi, hit the farmers. Deputy Director (Horticulture) B. Srinivasulu told The Hindu that the Nivar cyclone led to a damage of horticulture crops in 1729.52 hectares, which included tomato in 419.20 hectares, banana in 126.60 hectares, chillies in 78.16 hectares, brinjal in 61.90 hectares, papaya in 51.60 hectares and other vegetables in 878.48 hectares. “The preliminary loss is Rs. 20.5 crore and enumeration is yet to be completed. As many as 2,943 farmers in 273 villages are affected,” the official said. Mango orchards hit Mr. Srinivasulu said that heavy loss of banana was reported from the eastern mandals, while some mango orchards suffered uprooting of trees and soil erosion in the western mandals. He said estimation of losses would be reviewed again in view of the additional impact due to the Burevi. The losses in the floriculture sector would also be enumerated. Meanwhile, the agriculture department officials said due to complete harvesting of the kharif season, the damage to the traditional crops was minimal.However, the officials had taken up enumeration of the losses in this sector pertaining to the capital investment for the rabi, particularly the paddy, sugarcane and groundnut.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/horticulture-farmers-reel-under-onslaught-of-nivar-burevi-cyclones/article33275037.ece
08 December 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Red sanders logs worth Rs. 5 cr. seized, 8 arrested||Chittoor police on Monday nabbed eight red sanders operatives and seized four tonnes of precious wood worth over Rs. 5 crore, along with two lorries and a car, in two separate incidents. Addressing a press conference here, Superintendent of Police S. Senthil Kumar said in the wake of spurt in the red sanders smuggling activity from Chittoor district towards Tamil Nadu and Karnataka, special parties were formed to tackle the goings-on. As part of this, Deputy SP (Puttur) T.D. Yashwant and his team led the operation at Taduku forest check post on the outskirts of Puttur in the early hours of Monday. Acting on reliable information that a lorry laden with red sanders logs was on the move towards Chennai from the Seshachalam hills near Tirupati, the raid party rushed to the spot and intercepted the vehicle at the check post. When the lorry driver tried to give a slip to the police personnel, the latter chased the vehicle for a distance of two kilometers, and arrested six operatives and seized the lorry with 103 logs. In the second incident, Deputy SP (Chittoor) N. Sudhakar Reddy and his team led the operation at Kodigutta Cross, near Murakambattu, on the Chittoor-Bengaluru NH on Monday morning, intercepting a lorry and a car, both carrying 65 logs. Two persons were nabbed in this operation. Meetings on Mr. Senthil Kumar said that there had been a series of coordination meetings among the SPs of the Rayalaseema districts, vulnerable to red sanders smuggling and offering transit routes to neighbouring States. “We have also undertaken commando operations with both district police and the Special Enforcement Bureau personnel to tackle the red sanders smuggling menace, apart from intensifying night vigil and highway patrolling, and invoking of PD Acts against the notorious offenders,” the SP said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/red-sanders-logs-worth-rs-5-cr-seized-8-arrested/article33275039.ece
08 December 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Chittoor legal forum responds to mercy killing request||Chittoor District Legal Services Authority (DLSA) chairman A.V. Ravindra Babu on Monday responded to the plight of the Madanapalle-based couple, who had approached the local court there, seeking euthanasia for their seven-year-old daughter Nagarani, a victim of cerebral palsy since birth. The DLSA chairman had sought a report from the administration and the district medical and health officer (DMHO) on this matter. He had further sought them to provide required effective medical aid to the aggrieved child, without causing any financial burden to the parents. It may be recalled that the couple - Ramakrishna and Geethanjali – of Neerugattuvaripalle locality in Madanapalle had on December 4 approached the Second Additional District Judge court there, submitting an appeal for euthanasia for their daughter. Ramakrishna works as a construction worker. The parents lamented that as their funds and property were exhausted due to medical expenses for the child, they were unable to continue the treatment, hence seeking mercy killing for the child.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/chittoor-legal-forum-responds-to-mercy-killing-request/article33275035.ece
08 December 2020||ELURU (WEST GODAVARI DT),ANDHRA PRADESH||Situation still alarming in Eluru||With the number of patients falling sick due to the mysterious illness in Eluru town and the neighbouring areas, panic gripped the public in many localities in West Godavari district. People were were seen suffering from epilepsy, breathing and dizziness problems and were collapsing suddenly. All the wards in Eluru Government General Hospital (GGH) were packed with patients on Monday. Alarming situation prevails in many areas as the number of patients was increasing by every hour. Cases with epilepsy, headache and giddiness which were five on Saturday morning (December 5) rose to 455 by Monday evening at 5.30 p.m. Many patients were undergoing treatment in various hospitals. “My neighbour Lakshmi suffered epilepsy and fainted. We admitted her to Government General Hospital. Doctors collected blood and smear samples and the result was normal,” said Narasimha Rao of Arundathi Peta. “The number of patients falling sick due to the undiagnosed disease is increasing. We don’t know whether the disease is communicable and threat to life. Medical authorities should find reason for the illness, take preventive measures and save the public,” said a woman, P. Savithri of Dakshina Veedi in Eluru town. Samples sent to lab Health and Family Welfare Commissioner Katamneni Bhaskar said that water, blood, smear samples were sent to a laboratory and the result was normal. Teams from various Central institutes arrived and are collecting samples from the patients, he said. Union Minister of State for Home G. Kishan Reddy said the Centre was ready to help the Andhra Pradesh government in tackling the situation in West Godavari district, and the Ministry of Home was monitoring the situation, he said. Deputy Chief Minister and Health Minister Alla Kali Krishna Srinivas said that tests were being conducted on pesticide content in the neighbouring villages, milk testing was done and Cerebral Spinal Fluid (CSF) test was conducted on the patients. “Culture tests, CT brain, body scan, COVID-19 and other tests were conducted and the results were negative. Control rooms, medical camps, separate wards in Eluru GGH, Vijayawada GGH and at Ashram Hospital, Eluru, have been arranged. Specialists from various hospitals camped in Eluru and were monitoring the situation round the clock,” said Joint Collector Himanshu Shukla. “A patient, Srinivas, suffered epilepsy and fainted. We rushed him to hospital. Many other patients are complaining of giddiness and falling sick with frothing. Some people are falling on the road suddenly. The situation is alarming,” said Ch. Srikanth of Ashok Nagar. Senior Civil Judge D. Balakrishnaiah, who visited the patients in Eluru Government Hospital on Monday, said a report would be submitted to High Court on the situation in the town.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/situation-still-alarming-in-eluru/article33275584.ece
08 December 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Uneasy calm prevails at Amaravati||After laying a siege to the Thullur-Amaravati mandal for over 12 hours, the farmers and protesters of the Joint Action Committee of ‘Save Amaravati’, relented and agreed to call off the protest on the main road. Meanwhile, an uneasy calm prevails at Amaravati as the protests enter the 350th day. Things turned tense when some farmers visited Uddrayunivaripalem and a section of people tried to block them as they were nearing the house of Bapatla MP Nandigam Suresh. The agitators alleged that they were attacked by those supporting three Capitals at the behest of the MP, a charge which he denied. Thullur DSP Srinivasa Reddy on Monday visited the camp where the protesters have been demonstrating for nearly a year and assured that they could protest peacefully. The government has not given any hint that it was backtracking on its decision to have Executive Capital in Visakhapatnam, Legislative Capital in Amaravati and Judicial Capital in Kurnool. In December last year, Chief Minister Y.S Jagan Mohan Reddy said the three capital idea was mooted in view of the regional imbalances.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/uneasy-calm-prevails-at-amaravati/article33275576.ece
08 December 2020||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ravindranath fumes at social media campaign on Eluru case||Having been at the receiving end of the social media campaign over the undiagnosed illness in Eluru, Kamalapuram MLA and Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy’s maternal uncle P. Ravindranath Reddy refuted the allegations and called it a ‘malicious’ drive. Mr. Reddy accused the TDP’s social media wing of spreading ‘misinformation’ and warned that he would file a defamation case of Rs. 100 crore. The posts making rounds on social media attributed the sickness of hundreds of people in Eluru to the use of chlorine of inferior quality. The same post blamed Mr. Ravindranath Reddy as ‘the supplier of chlorine across the State’. “I have no connection with the chlorine supply and the post deliberately targetted me as I happen to be the Chief Minister’s uncle. This way, they want to malign Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy,” said Mr. Ravindranath Reddy. Complaints lodged The MLA said he had lodged complaints with the Intelligence wing and the cybercrime unit of Kadapa police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ravindranath-fumes-at-social-media-campaign-on-eluru-case/article33275578.ece
08 December 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||East Godavari sets sights on ‘swachh’ tag||Backward Classes Welfare Minister Ch. Venu Gopala Krishna has said volunteers will be roped in to monitor the solid waste management at the ground level besides creating awareness about hygienic conditions in an effort to get the ‘swachh’ tag for East Godavari district. The Minister was leading a rally held in the city on Monday to mark the launching of a week-long campaign on waste management and ban on plastic use to meet the goals set by Swatchh Bharat Mission. At a meeting with the officials from Panchayat Raj and Rural Development here, Mr. Venu Gopala Krishna directed Mandal Development Officers (MDOs) to deploy volunteers to monitor waste management in villages apart from creating awareness on the goals of the Swatchh Bharat Mission to achieve the tag of ‘Swachh’ for East Godavari. East Godavari Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy stressed that the public should join hands with officials to keep the district clean.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/east-godavari-sets-sights-on-swachh-tag/article33275588.ece
08 December 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man ‘hacked to death’||A 44-year-old man was hacked to death allegedly by his brother-in-law in a broad daylight following a land dispute at Mandapam village of Sankavaram mandal in the limits of Annavaram police station in East Godavari district on Monday. The deceased was identified as N. Veerababu. According to Annavaram Sub-Inspector B. Shankara Rao, Veerababu died on the spot in the attack with a knife in the morning at his residence after an argument over a piece of land. The accused, G. Sattibabu, is the brother of Veerababu’s wife.  Investigation on The body was sent to the Community Health Centre at Prapthipadu for post-mortem examination. Investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-hacked-to-death/article33275587.ece
08 December 2020||KURNOOL/ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Left parties drum up support for Bharat Bandh||Leaders and activists of the Communist Party of India(CPI) and CPI (M) on Monday took out motorcycle rallies, met leaders of different interest groups in the society to garner support for the proposed Bharat Bandh on Tuesday, opposing the Centre’s three Farm Laws, which according to them go against the interests of the average small farmer. At Nandyal, farmers and CPI(M) activists led by party district joint secretary S.M.D. Rafi took out a bike rally urging people to voluntarily support the bandh to ensure farmers were not made victims at the hands of corporate companies, who they fear will soon enter the farming sector. Traders urged to cooperate In Anantapur, the leaders of Left parties, V. Rambhupal and Jaffer, met leaders of the trading community and asked them to down the shutters and support the cause of the marginal growers of agricultural items. Once the corporate companies gain a monopoly over the food products, prices would be determined by them, said Mr. Rambhupal. The communist leaders also met the Anantapur APSRTC Regional Manager and requested him to not allow buses to run on Tuesday. A bike rally was taken out from the Press Club, near Tower Clock, which wound its way through the Saptagiri Circle, Gandhi Bazaar, Tadipatri bus stand, Srikantham Circle and RTC bus stand to spread awareness among the general public over the alleged anti-farmer laws. “The farmers from Haryana and Punjab are peacefully agitating on Delhi border, but the Centre did not bother to address their grievances and dashed all their demands,” the Left party leaders said. Tuesday’s bandh was to strengthen the hands of the farmers so that they get better bargain during the talks with the Union government, they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/left-parties-drum-up-support-for-bharat-bandh/article33275034.ece
08 December 2020||MACHILIPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Training programme held for job aspirants||Officials of the police department and AP Skill Development Corporation (APSDC) on Monday organised a one-day training programme for the job aspirants, who are attending the job mela at Machilipatnam on December 12. Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) Ex-officio Additional Director Vakul Jindal, who attended the training session said Krishna Superintendent of Police (SP) M. Ravindranath Babu launched ‘Parivarthana’ programme to wean the villagers off illicit liquor. Under ‘Parivarthana’, jobs were being provided to unemployed youth in the families, especially in tribal hamlets, thandas, island and coastal villages to provide livelihood to them.  Recruitment drive APSDC in-charge Tammaji Rao said about 30 companies will participate in the recruitment drive, organised by the police department, and asked the youth to make use of the opportunity. Trainee IPS officer Prerana Kumar, Special Branch DSP Dharmendra, Machilipatnam DSP M. Ramesh Reddy, APSDC officers S. Naresh, D.V. Sandeep and other staff were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/training-programme-held-for-job-aspirants/article33275662.ece
08 December 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Nivar leaves chilli growers in distress||A majority of tenant farmers in Prakasam district had opted for cultivation of chilli in a big way during both the Kharif and Rabi seasons this year, enthused by the high prices that the crop had fetched in the Guntur market earlier. However, their hopes were soon to be dashed as heavy rains induced by Cyclone Nivar lashed the region, submerging fields in large swathes of the district. Remunerative price “The crop condition had been excellent till rains induced by Nivar submerged the crop in large tracts of land,” lamented a group of farmers at the remote village of Koadavalivaripalem, near Karamchedu. But for a brief period when they could not market their produce because of the lockdown, the ‘red gold’ fetched a remunerative price of Rs. 15,000 per quintal, explained a 48-year-old farmer Kodavali Dharma Rao, who had grown the spice crop in 10 acres. Even during the lockdown, traders came to farmers’ homes and picked up whatever stocks they had stored, paying a premium price for the produce, he recalled in a conversation with The Hindu . With the chilli prices going northwards, each and every farmer in the region went for the spice crop on an average patch of 10 acres of land thanks to bountiful rains during Khariff season. “Now, we are ruing our fate as the rains have put paid to our hopes of reaping a good harvest,” said another middle-aged farmer P. Dilip Kumar, who had raised the crop in 15 acres with great expectations. “Unlike in some other areas, the crop did not suffer any pest attack in our village. But the rains under the influence of the cyclonic storm shattered all their hopes,” said Thota Vamsi Krishna (30) while trying his best to drain water from his field. On an average, each farmer had spent close to Rs. 90,000 per acre so far for cultivation of the spice crop. “We are unsure whether we will be able to at least break even,” said another farmer K. Sambasiva Rao, urging the government to complete the crop loss enumeration speedily and provide them liberal compensation. Farmers in the drought-prone district had raised chilli in over 25,000 hectares during Khariff and in another 10,000 hectares during Rabi, according to Horticulture department sources.  Replantation The spice crop raised during Khariff had suffered severe damage in over 40% of the cropped area. Farmers who had grown the crop during early Rabi would have to go for replantation in at least 3,000 hectares, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/nivar-leaves-chilli-growers-in-distress/article33275586.ece
08 December 2020||SRIKAKULAM/VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Trade unions gear up for Bharat bandh||Trade unions have geared up to make Bharat Bandh, slated for Tuesday, a grand success while trying to garner support from all sections of society for the farmers who have been agitating in New Delhi against the farm laws introduced by the BJP-led NDA government at Centre. The bandh is likely to have an impact on the transport sector as AP Lorry Owners’ Association has expressed its solidarity with agitators. Hundreds of vehicles on the A.P.-Odisha border have already stopped at Itchapuram of Srikakulam district and Saluru of Vizianagaram district. AITUC, CITU, INTUC, IFTU and other organisations have jointly called upon the people to oppose the laws as they would lead to domination of the corporate sector. Addressing the media in Vizinaagaram, AITUC leaders V. Krishnamraju and Bugata Ashok said that the corporate companies would stock essential goods and create artificial scarcity. CITU-Vizianagaram general secretary T.V. Ramana said the Union government’s decision was aimed at benefiting multi-national companies. AP Lorry Owners’ Association State vice-president M. Janakiram Reddy said the transport sector was badly affected in the wake of skyrocketing diesel prices. Rallies taken out In Srikakulam, trade unions organised rallies and protests. CITU State vice-president D. Govinda Rao said the farmers would get moral support from all sections. Auto drivers’ support Andhra Pradesh Auto Drivers and Workers Federation (AITUC affiliated) State general secretary B. Vamana Murthy said all auto drivers would participate in Bharat Bandh on Tuesday to express their solidarity with farmers who have been agitating in New Delhi over agriculture reforms. Mr. Murthy said drivers in all 13 districts would not operate their vehicles from early hours of Tuesday. He said that skyrocketing of petroleum products had a serious impact on the livelihood of auto drivers also. “Many farmers in rural areas depend on auto-rickshaws to carry their goods and travel to nearby towns and cities. Their problem is always a problem of auto-drivers too. That is why, we requested all the drivers to join the Bharat Bandh and participate in agitations,” said Mr.Vamana Murthy. Cong. backs bandh Congress district unit president Saragada Ramesh Kumar urged all the party workers to participate in the ‘Bharat Bandh’ on Tuesday and express their support to the farmers who have been on the warpath against the Union government’s farm laws. In a press release, he said that the bandh was aimed at protecting the interests of all sections since the prices of essential goods would go up within no time if the so-called agriculture ‘reforms’ were implemented in the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/trade-unions-gear-up-for-bharat-bandh/article33275591.ece
08 December 2020||Sumit Bhattacharjee,ANDHRA PRADESH||Andhra University science college: past perfect but future tense||The Andhra University College of Science and Technology will be celebrating its 87th foundation day on Tuesday. The college has seen its glorious days when Nobel laureate C.V. Raman burnt the midnight oil in conducting his experiments in the lab and teachers such as Ludwig Wolfe, Suri Bhagavantam, B.R. Rao and C. Mahadevan walked through its portals. The college also produced illustrious students such as Padma Vibhushan C.R. Rao. But those were the days, when the college basked in its glory, and the campus was filled with an intelligent crop of students and teachers of repute. The college also has about seven patents to boast off. Today, the teachers are left a few and the profile of the students are in no comparison to the earlier days, as the cream prefer engineering over pure science, said a senior professor from the college. As on on date, the college has about 23 departments with an intake of about 1,480 students per year and permanently faculty strength is reduced from 220 to just 58, with an addition of around 40 contract teachers. The teacher strength in the Physics Department is down from 15 to 3 and in Chemistry Department from 25 to 10.“We also have a few guest lecturers and we are managing with them,” said college Principal P. Srinivasa Rao. Royal connection The college, which is located in the present building, which is known Jeypore Vikrama Deo College of Science and Technology, was inaugurated on December 8, 1933, by the then Governor of Madras Presidency George Frederick Stanley. Though building was inaugurated on this day, 87 years ago, the science college was actually started by the university with honours courses in physics and chemistry on July 4, 1932, in ground floor of Cecil Hotel building, said Edward Paul, a history chronicler of the city. The second Vice-Chancellor of AU, who later became the first Vice-President and second President Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan, was instrumental in starting college. Before the laying foundation stone for the building, Radhakrishnan along with Alladi Krishna Swamy, the then Advocate General of Madras and O. Pulla Reddy, I.C.S, approached the Maharajah of Jeypore, Vikrama Deo Varma, to donate for the construction of the college. Agreeing to Radhakrishnan’s request, Vikran Deo Varma sanctioned Rs. 50,000 for the academic year 1933-34, Rs. 75,000 for the academic year 1934-35 and Rs. 1,00,000 from the next academic years till such time when he or his heirs might pay up a capital sum of Rs. 15,00,000. And that is how the college building had come up and its named after him, said Mr. Edward Paul. The design of the building was done by one L.M. Chitale, architect, and the construction was taken up by Britannia Building and Iron Company of Calcutta (now Kolkata).  Alumni Day December 10, every year is celebrated as Alumni Day by the college and this year, Union Minister Prakash Javadekar is the chief guest for the online event, said Prof. Srinivasa Rao.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/andhra-university-science-college-past-perfect-but-future-tense/article33275676.ece
08 December 2020||TIRUMALA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Special homams performed||Special homams were performed on Monday in connection with the five-day Balalaya Maha Samprokshanam currently under way at the temple of Bhuvaraha Swamy in Tirumala. The traditional rituals like Punyavachanam, Viswaksenaradhana, Kumbharadhana, and Pamchagavyaradhana were observed followed by Uktha, Moorthy, Shanti, Vasthu, Anga and Adhivaasa homams. Later the priests also carried out ‘Akshiya mochanam’. Kankana Bhattacharyulu Venugopala deekshitulu, Agama advisers N.A.K. Sundaravarada Charyulu, Mohan Rangacharyulu and temple priests Govindarajacharyulu, Krishnaseshachala Deekshitulu were prominent among others who took part in the rituals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/special-homams-performed/article33275592.ece
08 December 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Assault’ on woman: SI transferred||Tiruparti Urban Superintendent of Police Avula Ramesh Reddy has ordered transfer of a Sub-Inspector to vacancy reserve (VR), following the controversy over the alleged assault of a woman at Muthyala Reddy Palle police station. Mr. Reddy ordered a detailed probe into the allegations by Additional Superintendent of Police (Administration) E. Supraja. “The quick decision is to show that the law is same for everyone,” Mr. Ramesh Reddy said in a release on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/assault-on-woman-si-transferred/article33275579.ece
08 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Governor recalls sacrifices made by jawans||Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan participated in the Armed Forces Flag Day celebrations held at Durbar Hall in Raj Bhavan on Monday. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Harichandan said the flag day was an occasion to salute the Indian Armed Forces for their devotion, sincerity, professionalism, dedication and sacrifices and asked the public to contribute liberally to the army personnel. The Governor said the flag day recalls the sacrifices made by the brave jawans to protect the motherland. He paid tributes to the army personnel who laid down their lives in fighting against the enemies. Mr. Harichandan felicitated Sammingi Rohini, wife of sepoy late Sammingi Tulasi Ram of Visakhapatnam district, who attained martyrdom on January 12 this year, at Yangtse Sector on the Line of Actual Control in Arunachal Pradesh. He released an ex gratia of Rs. 2 lakh to the wife of Praveen Kumar Reddy, Havildar of Indian Army who was martyred in an encounter with the terrorists in Jammu & Kashmir recently. The amount was sanctioned from Governor’s discretionary grant funds. G. Vijay Kumar, Special Secretary, Home Department, Md. Ahsan Reza, Director of Sainik Welfare, officers of Raj Bhavan attended the programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/governor-recalls-sacrifices-made-by-jawans/article33275661.ece
08 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||State reports five deaths, 361 new cases||The State reported five more coronavirus deaths and 361 new infections in the past 24 hours ending Monday morning. It was the lowest single-day tally in the past five and a half months. The cumulative tally increased to 8,72,288 and the toll reached 7,038 with a death rate of 0.81%. Only 43,006 samples were tested in the past day and their positivity rate was 0.73%, the lowest single-day positivity rate in over the last six months.  Recovery rate The recovery rate increased to 98.55% with a total of  8,59,624 recoveries including the 595 in the past day. As many as 5,626 patients are undergoing treatment in the State at present. The overall positivity rate of 1.045 crore samples tested was 8.34%. Krishna district reported two new deaths in a day and was followed by Anantapur, Kadapa and Visakhapatnam which reported one death each in the past day. Guntur reported highest single-day tally of 87 cases while the remaining districts reported less than 50 infections in the past day. They include Kadapa (36), Krishna (36), East Godavari (35), Chittoor (32), Nellore (25), West Godavari (15), Srikakulam (13), Visakhapatnam (12), Anantapur (9), Prakasam (9), Kurnool (4) and Vizianagaram (3). The district tallies are as follows: East Godavari (1,22,685), West Godavari (92,961), Chittoor (84,298), Guntur (73,484),Anantapur (66,871), Prakasam (61,638), Nellore (61,635), Kurnool (60,299), Visakhapatnam (58,450), Kadapa (54,545), Krishna (46,157), Srikakulam (45,583) and Vizianagaram (40,787).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-reports-five-deaths-361-new-cases/article33275571.ece
08 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Farmers’ issue tops list of concerns at District Review Committee meeting||Ministers and other elected representatives from the district highlighted the issues faced by farmers affected by cyclones in their respective constituencies in the District Review Committee meeting chaired by district in-charge Minister Peddireddi Ramachandra Reddy here on Monday. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Ramachandra Reddy said the responsibility of helping farmers overcome the loss caused by Nivar and previous cyclones was on the government and everyone should come forward to help irrespective of one’s political affiliations. He said crop damage enumeration should be completed before December 10 and no farmer should be denied help. Mr. Reddy directed Panchayat Raj officials to respond to all complaints received regarding lack of street lights in villages. Regarding flooding of roads and blocked drainages in city, Mr. Reddy asked District Collector to conduct a meeting with MLAs soon and come up with permanent solutions. Minister and Gudivada MLA Kodali Sri Venkateswara Rao said farmers need not fear as the government would do everything to help them. He said the government is not encouraging 1010 type seeds. Minister Velampalli Srinivasa Rao highlighted the need for speedy completion of drainage works taken up in the city. Brahmin Welfare Corporation chairman and Vijayawada Central MLA Malladi Vishnu also said that there was no progress in the stormwater drainage works handed over to L&T company. Roads damaged Machilipatnam MP V. Balashowry said roads in rural areas were damaged a lot due to cyclones and sought sanction of Rs. 15 crore towards their repairs. He asked the State government to make a representation for sanction of Rs. 4,500 worth drinking water project for the district. Penamaluru MLA K. Parthasarathi said officials were not considering the names of farmers who got a subsidy in July and August and have over five acres damaged crops for the current enumeration. Mr. Reddy asked the agriculture department officials to resolve the issue. Pedana MLA Jogi Ramesh, Nandigama MLA M. Jaganmohan Rao, Pamarru MLA K. Anil Kumar, Mylavaram MLA Vasantha Krishna Prasad, MLC K.S. Lakshman Rao, Gannavaram MLA V. Vamsi Mohan, Jaggaiapeta MLA S. Udaya Bhanu, Nuzvid MLA M. Pratap Venkata Apparao, MLCs P. Ashok Babu, Y.B. Rajendra Prasad, A.S. Ramakrishna and others also aired concerns.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/farmers-issue-tops-list-of-concerns-at-district-review-committee-meeting/article33275567.ece
08 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Time to take up campaign on garbage management’||District Collector A.Md. Imtiaz stressed the need for keeping surroundings clean and said officials should be more careful about maintaining sanitation and hygiene considering the Eluru incident. Mr. Imtiaz was addressing a meeting with Mandal Parishad Development Officers (MPDOs) and Extension Officers of Panchayat Raj and Rural Development (EOPRDs) and other officials at a meeting on a campaign for garbage management in the district. He said sanitation could not be maintained well in several areas, due to the burden of the pandemic, and added that it was time to conduct a door-to-door visit and enlighten people on the importance of upkeep of surroundings. He said a 15-point action plan has been made and it is the responsibility of the officials to take it into the people. He said as a pilot project, 118 villages were made plastic-free in the past and there was a huge response from the public. As people have become more cautious about maintaining hygiene in view of the COVID pandemic, more support can be expected from people to such campaigns, he said. Joint Collector L. Siva Shankar said 284 villages have been selected that for the second phase and that they would be made garbage-free by implementing waste management project. He said ward and village volunteers and Secretariats will play a key role in creating awareness among the public.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/time-to-take-up-campaign-on-garbage-management/article33275656.ece
08 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||1,537 held in SEB, police raids||The Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) personnel and the police booked 1,088 cases against sand, liquor, ganja and gukha smugglers and sellers in the State and arrested 1,537 persons. The SEB officials conducted joint raids along with the police of the districts concerned across the State in the last 48 hours against the illicit operations, said SEB Commissioner Vineet Brijlal. Following the directions of Director-General of Police (DGP) D. Gautam Sawang, raids, surprise checks, inspections and vehicle checking were conducted on the State borders, villages, National Highways, police check-posts, lodges, gambling dens and some vulnerable places in the last two days, the Commissioner said. SEB Director P.H.D. Ramakrishna said 269 special teams of the SEB and the police teams conducted checks at 1,117 points in the State. The seizures include, 192 vehicles, 3,652 Non Duty Paid Liquor (NDPL) bottles, 11,230 Duty Paid Liquor (DPL) bottles, 6,016 litres of ID liquor, 349 tonnes of sand, 530 kg of ganja and 140 kg of black jaggery. As many as 44,5000 scchets of gutkha, worth Rs. 45 lakh, cash of Rs. 11.76 lakh , silver and Rs. 13.80 lakh unaccounted cash were seized, Mr. Brijlal said. Mr. Sawang praised the SEB and the police who participated in ‘Operation Nigha’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/1537-held-in-seb-police-raids/article33275658.ece
08 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||A.P. power engineers welcome dismissal of TS utilities’ plea||The APSEB Executive Engineers’ Association (AEEA) welcomed the Supreme Court’s dismissal of the petition filed by Telangana power utilities against D.M. Dharmadhikari Committee’s concluding report on the allocation of electricity employees between Andhra Pradesh and Telangana in the aftermath of the State bifurcation. AEEA president B. Vamsi Srinivas and general secretary N. Lakshmana Rao stated in a press release that the apex court found no merit in the objections raised by the Telangana utilities to the one-man (Dharmadhikari) committee’s concluding report dated June 20, 2020 and that it was obligatory for utilities of both the States and all others concerned to carry out and implement the directions of the panel. Distribution of personnel The apex court observed that the Dharmadhikari Committee was only entrusted the task of distribution of personnel between the two States. As far as the claims regarding salaries and allowances raised through miscellaneous applications were concerned, the employees were free to get them adjudicated by an appropriate forum. The Supreme Court also noted that power utilities of Telangana had unilaterally relieved 1,157 employees, directing them to join the respective power utilities of Andhra Pradesh. A number of employees had filed writ petitions in the High Court of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana, challenging the decision of power utilities of Telangana. At the same time, 242 employees, who were working in the A.P. power utilities got themselves relieved and joined the Telangana utilities. Principle of nativity The apex court, in its judgment, said that the power utilities of Telangana were motivated by principle of nativity, i.e. employees whose service records mentioned them as residents of any part of the residuary State of Andhra Pradesh were relieved. Those belonging to the territory of the newly formed Telangana were permitted to join the utilities in that State by exercising self-option, which was challenged in the High Court. As the dispute became intractable and the matter reached the Supreme Court, the latter had constituted the Dharmadhikari Committee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ap-power-engineers-welcome-dismissal-of-plea-by-ts-utilities/article33275572.ece
08 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Naidu blames govt. for mysterious ailment||Telugu Desam Party (TDP) national president and former Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu has alleged that the YSRCP-led State government had utterly failed in tackling the mysterious ailment that caused the hospitalisation of at least 300 persons in Eluru in West Godavari district. “The government’s negligence in supplying safe drinking water, and keeping towns and cities clean is evident from this public health emergency,” Mr. Naidu told the media on Monday. ‘Such situation unprecedented’ Mr. Naidu said that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy should deal with the situation with all seriousness, adding that such a mass hospitalisations of this nature were unprecedented in the histroy of the State. He alleged that the government machinery did not react when some cases were reported a few days ago. “Now, the Chief Minister needs to pay utmost attention to this health hazard, lest the situation should worsen further,” he said. The government is also supposed to do a comprehensive inquiry of the issue and fix the responsibility, Mr. Naidu added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/naidu-blames-govt-for-mysterious-ailment/article33275665.ece
08 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Narrow escape for Addl. DGP||Additional Director General of Police Kripanand Tripati Ujala had a narrow escape from a road accident in Krishna district on Monday. Mr. Tripati is the chairman of State Road Safety Authority. His vehicle hit a two-wheeler at Kanchikacherla and skid off the road. However, Mr. Tripati escaped unhurt. Mr. Narasimha Rao, who was riding the bike suffered injuries and was rushed to a hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/narrow-escape-for-addl-dgp/article33275659.ece
08 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pawan seeks Rs. 35,000 aid for each rain-hit farmer||Jana Sena Party president Pawan Kalyan has demanded that a compensation of at least Rs. 35,000 (including an immediate assistance of Rs. 10,000) should be paid to each farmer whose crops have been damaged by Cyclone Nivar. “If the State government does not act within 48 hours, the JSP will intensify protests,” he told the media at his residence in Hyderabad on Monday, where he sat on a ‘deeksha’ as a mark of solidarity with the farmers. Crop damage Mr. Pawan said that crops in more than 17 lakh acres were damaged by heavy rains and floods, which compounded the woes of farmers who were reeling under the impact of coronavirus pandemic. He said that farmers had made a minimum investment of Rs. 50,000 per acre and a compensation of Rs. 35,000 would help them recoup the loss to some extent. “Even clearing the submerged fields is an expensive proposition. The government should, therefore, come to their rescue without delay,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pawan-seeks-rs-35000-aid-for-each-rain-hit-farmer/article33275574.ece
08 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘SEC should consult govt. on local body polls’||Andhra Pradesh Intellectuals and Citizens' Forum (APICF) chairman P. Vijay Babu said that the State Election Commission (SEC) should consult the government on the arrangements for the local body elections in the State. Addressing the media here on Monday, Mr. Vijay Babu said that the SEC should look into the Constitutional provisions before interpreting the issue. He also insisted that the SEC should talk to the government officials and then take a decision on holding the local body elections and highlighted Article 21 of teh Constitution, which guarantees life and personal liberty. APICF members G. Krishna, Jayanth Kumar, Pilla Ravi, Sai Ram and Mallikarjuna Murthy were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sec-should-consult-govt-on-local-body-polls/article33275663.ece
08 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD chief launches ‘Gudiko Gomatha’ at Durga temple||Endowments Minister Vellampalli Srinivas, Tirumala Tirupati Devastanams (TTD) Chairman Y.V. Subba Reddy and Executive Officer K.S. Jawahar Reddy launched ‘Gudiko Gomatha’ programme at the Kanakadurga temple atop Indrakeeladri here on Monday. The TTD Chairman, along with Hindu Dharma Prachara Parishad officer Bommadevara Venkata Subbarao, offered the first cow and a calf to Sri Durga Malleswara Swamyvarla Devastanam, under the TTD’s programme. Mr. Subba Reddy along with MLAs Kolusu Parthasarathy, Jogi Ramesh and Malladi Vishnu performed special pujas to the cow. Cows will be offered to many temples in the State under the initiative. Devasthanam Chairman Paila Sominaidu, Executive Officer M.V. Suresh Babu, TTD JEO P. Basanth Kumar and other officers and staff participated in the programme. Fake websites Tirumala Special Correspondent adds: meanwhile, Mr. Subba Reddy warned of stringent legal action against fake websites trying to cheat pilgrim fraternity. The social media was taken by a storm when a website, www.balaji prasadam.com claimed to deliver the sacred laddu prasadam to anywhere in the world on demand. The website which charged Rs. 500 for the delivery of two laddus also promised monthly and yearly offers of regular supply besides accepting bulk offers. In view of the seriousness of the matter, Mr. Reddy directed the vigilance authorities to probe the issue and instructed the IT officials to initiate required steps for blocking such fake websites. Special homams Special homams were performed on Monday in connection with the five-day Balalaya Maha Samprokshanam currently under way at the temple of Bhuvaraha Swamy in Tirumala. The traditional rituals like Punyavachanam, Viswaksenaradhana, Kumbharadhana, and Pamchagavyaradhana were observed followed by Uktha, Moorthy, Shanti, Vasthu, Anga and Adhivaasa homams. Later the priests also carried out ‘Akshiya mochanam’. Kankana Bhattacharyulu Venugopala deekshitulu,||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ttd-chief-launches-gudiko-gomatha-at-durga-temple/article33275667.ece
08 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP State committee announced||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) State president Somu Veerraju on Monday announced a 70-member executive committee. He stated in a press release that the new office-bearers would soon take charge and requested them to strive for the party’s victory in the 2024 general elections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bjp-state-committee-announced/article33275582.ece
08 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Promote fish as diet to check malnutrition, says Venkaiah||Advocating that fish, being rich in protein, can help reduce malnutrition in the country, Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu has said that the health experts and nutritionists must promote fish as a diet and that it can help improve the immunity among people during the pandemic. Addressing the scientists and staff at the Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute (CMFRI) and Central Institute of Fisheries Technology (CIFT) here on Monday, the Vice-President called upon the health experts and nutritionists to bring awareness among the common people to include fish in their diet. “Fish is rich in omega-3 fatty acid, which is necessary for our body and good for cardiovascular health. This aspect needs to be promoted and conveyed to the common man. India has a long coastline of 8,000 km. Marine resources The country is endowed with a diversity of fish resources that have been supporting the livelihoods of millions of people for generations,” he said. The Vice-President said that India ranked second in the world in marine resources with a production of 13.75 million metric tonnes. If the fish resources of rivers, lakes and tanks are included, it would go up to 22 million metric tonnes, he said. “The fisheries sector is providing employment to nearly 15 million people on the Indian coast. India is the fourth largest exporter of fish in the world and the sector is one of the major contributors of foreign exchange earnings,” said Mr. Naidu and added that India should aspire to become number one in fish exports. Mr. Venkaiah Naidu also advocated for bridging the gap in demand and supply of the annual fish production in India. Marine fish culture Mr. Naidu opined that capture fisheries and deep-sea fishing alone can could not meet the demand and marine fish culture was the way forward. Stating that over 8,000 km of coastline offers immense potential for the development of mariculture, the Vice-President said cage farming was widely recognised as the most important technology for increasing fish production. He called for improving value-addition to fish, by maintaining the highest quality, consistency and reliability by better grading, quality assurance, and packaging of products. Earlier, Mr. Venkaiah Naidu visited the museums of the CMFRI and the CIFT and complimented both institutions for their excellent work in the fisheries sector. Minister of Tourism Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao, Collector V. Vinay Chand, Director of ICAR-CMFRI A. Gopalakrishnan, Scientists R. Raghu Prakash and K. Muraleedharan spoke on the occasion. ICAR-CMFRI head Subhadeep Ghosh, scientists and staff of CMFRI and CIFT were among the dignitaries who attended the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/promote-fish-as-a-diet-to-check-malnutrition-says-venkaiah/article33275581.ece
08 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lambasingi cottages not to be ready this winter||A long wait for the prestigious cottage project at Lambasingi village in Chintapalle mandal of Visakhapatnam district is set to continue further. Financial issues and the COVID-19 lockdown has further delayed the project, and the estimated time for completion of the project was pushed later by a few more months. APTDC officials confirmed that the project would not be available for tourists this winter. Lambasingi, a tribal hamlet located in Chintapalle mandal, around 120 km from Visakhapatnam city, shot to fame after it reported 0° Celsius for the first time in December 2012. Thousands of tourists from surrounding districts and neighbouring States like Odisha make it a point to visit Lambasingi during their trip to the Agency to experience the cold temperatures. However, visitors are unable to savour the experience for long as they cannot stay there overnight for want of accomodation and toilets. Three years ago, the Tourism Department had initiated work on building cottages for the tourists by identifying 17 acres of space on the outskirts of Lambasingi village. Since then, the project has been running into a number of hurdles, especially delay in funding, and is still to be completed as of 2020-end. APTDC Divisional Manager T.G Prasada Reddy said that the project includes 15 cottages, restaurant, bar, conference hall, children’s play arena, parking space, and landscaping. Halting of work due to the COVID-19 pandemic and a few uncleared bills to the contractors has delayed the project. “Nearly 60 to 70% of the work has been finished. Work on all the components is being done. It will take a few more months, and is expected to be ready by April–May 2021,” Mr. Prasada Reddy said. Temporary solutions Till last year, tourists were seen using tents which were made available by some private agencies at a charge of Rs. 1,500 per night.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lambasingi-cottages-not-to-be-ready-this-winter/article33275617.ece
08 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||CPI(M) holds campaign in support of bandh||A campaign was conducted by the CPI(M) here on Monday to garner public support for the proposed Bharat Bandh on December 8. Party city committee secretary B. Ganga Rao appealed to the public to support the bandh, the call for which was given by 200 farmers associations to demand withdrawal of the three farm laws and power sector reforms, which were intended to benefit corporate companies. Thousands of farmers have been protesting on the streets of Delhi for more than 10 days demanding withdrawal of the farm laws. He alleged that the Union government tried to suppress the agitation by using tear gas and water cannons on the farmers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cpim-holds-campaign-in-support-of-bandh/article33275668.ece
08 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Venkaiah Naidu expresses concern over Eluru incident||Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu has expressed concern at the strange illness that has led to the hospitalisation of over 300 persons in Eluru town. The Vice-President arrived on a visit to the city on Monday morning. He enquired about the details of the incident from the District Collector and other officials. They told him that local doctors in Eluru and a team from AIIMS, Mangalagiri, visited the patients and interacted with them. The lab tests have, however, not revealed the cause. The Vice-President spoke to Union Minister of Health Harsh Vardhan and told him of the need to complement the efforts of the State government in making efforts to find out the cause and to provide better medical care to the affected persons. The Health Minister appointed a three-member team of medical experts, who interacted with the doctors in Eluru. Later, speaking to the Vice-President, Mr. Harsh Vardhan said that the expert team of doctors from AIIMS, Delhi, and virologists would visit Eluru and study the lab reports to arrive at a conclusion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/venkaiah-naidu-expresses-concern-over-eluru-incident/article33275670.ece
08 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP protests against property tax hike||Former Minister Ch. Ayyanna Patrudu has demanded that the property tax be levied on rental value but not on the value of the land. He flayed the government for the proposed hike in property tax, which would impose a huge burden on the taxpayers. Visakhapatnam East MLA Velagapudi Ramakrishna Babu and former MLA Palla Srinivasa Rao were among those who attended. Women members of the party cooked food in large vessels as part of the ‘vanta varpu’ agitation against the hike in property tax. Meanwhile, TDP leader Bandaru Satyanarayan Murthy on Monday criticised YSRCP MP Vijaya Sai Reddy for making statement on providing employment to YSRCP social media activists. Speaking to media persons here on Monday, he said a large number of youth whose families have given lands for pharma city are still jobless. They should be given priority if there was any employment opportunity instead of to the YSRCP social activists. He said Mr. Vijaya Sai Reddy had even promised to give 2,000 jobs for the party activists in the pharma city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-protests-against-property-tax-hike/article33275674.ece
08 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man arrested on charge of attempting to kill wife||The city police arrested a man for allegedly trying to kill his wife, as she had given birth to a female child. On April 20, this year, Gangu Naidu reportedly had assaulted his wife Aparna and made her drink water mixed with acid. When her condition deteriorated, she was shifted to King George Hospital (KGH) in the city for treatment. Aparna of Chintalapalem village of Kothavalasa mandal in Vizianagaram district married Jogu Gangu Naidu of Bhimannadorapalem village of Anandapuram mandal on August 26, 2016. A year after the marriage, Aparna had delivered a female baby. Her husband and her parents-in-law reportedly used to harass her mentally and physically. Aparna and her husband later shifted to Saripalli village of Pendurthi mandal. Aparna did not dare to tell her parents the truth for the last eight months as Gangu Naidu had threatened to kill their child, if she told her parents about it. She finally summoned courage and told them the truth and they informed the same to the Police Commissioner on December 4. Based on the report, the Pendurthi police booked cases late on Sunday night and investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-arrested-on-charge-of-attempting-to-kill-wife/article33275677.ece
08 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Missing gold jewellery recovered||The city police recovered over 235 grams gold jewellery worth Rs. 12 lakh that was lost by a family during shopping at the Jagadamba Centre in the city on Sunday evening. Two auto drivers who had reportedly found the bag containing the gold jewellery shared it. DCP (Crimes) V. Suresh Babu said that P. Venkateswara Rao of Akkayyapalem in the city came to Jagadamba Centre in his car along with family members on Sunday evening. While alighting from the car, a bag containing gold ornaments fell from his wife. Later, Mr. Rao along with his family approached the MR Peta police station in the city and lodged a complaint on the missing jewellery. While examining the CCTV footage, the MP Peta Inspector Ch. Simhadri Naidu noticed one auto-rickshaw driver picking up the bag. The police have traced the auto-rickshaw and the owner Gandi Francis at Dolphin Junction. Francis reportedly confessed to finding the bag and sharing the gold with another driver Mugi Dhanaraju, a resident of Chengalraopeta. The Inspector later recovered the entire gold and handed them to the complainants immediately.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/missing-gold-jewellery-recovered/article33275678.ece
08 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||District sees 12 new COVID cases, one death||The district recorded 12 fresh COVID-19 cases in the last 24 hours, taking the total count since the outbreak of the pandemic to 58,962. The district also recorded one death and the total count has gone up to 514. 44 recovered A total of 44 persons, who were undergoing treatment at COVID hospitals or home isolation have recovered, taking the total recovery count to 58,119. With this, the active cases have dropped to 329. According to District COVID Special Officer and Principal of Andhra Medical College P.V. Sudhakar, the cases have dropped significantly from November and this is a healthy trend.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/district-sees-12-new-covid-cases-one-death/article33275679.ece
08 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two children drown at Matsyagedda||In a tragic incident, two children drowned at Matsyagedda of Munchingput mandal in the Agency area of the district on Monday. They were were identified as V. Chandu and V. Sravani, both aged 10 years. Further details are awaited.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-children-drown-at-matsyagedda/article33275672.ece
08 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Appeal to donate liberally towards Flag Day Fund||Joint Collector Arun Babu called upon people of the district and industrialists to donate generously to the Flag Day Fund. He gave the first contribution to the Flag Day Fund on the occasion of Armed Forces Flag Day on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/appeal-to-donate-liberally-towards-flag-day-fund/article33275669.ece
08 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Avenue plantation drive launched||Avenue plantation taken up by Visakhapatnam Metro Region Development Authority was launched by Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao and YSRCP MP Vijaya Sai Reddy here on Monday. Mr. Srinivasa Rao said it has been decided to plant trees in 1,000 parks and tree guards should be provided for them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/avenue-plantation-drive-launched/article33275680.ece
08 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Civil Defence Flag Raising Day celebrated||The 58th Civil Defence Flag Raising Day was celebrated at Divisional Railway Manager’s Office here on Monday. A mock drill was organised by Civil Defence Inspector CHUBE Prasad, part time Civil Defence inspectors and other members of the Civil Defence Organisation under the guidance of Senior Divisional Safety Officer N. R. Sahu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/civil-defence-flag-raising-day-celebrated/article33275671.ece
08 December 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP protests hike in LPG price||The Telugu Desam Party on Monday alleged that the Union government’s decision to hike LPG refill cost had put a heavy burden on the people of low income groups. The party organised Vanta Varpu agitation here to oppose the around Rs. 50 hike in LPG prices recently. TDP Vizianagaram Assembly wing in charge Aditi Gajapathi Raju led the agitation. After mass cooking at a public place, food was served to the protesters. TDP MLC Gummadi Sandhya Rani led the protest at Mentada in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-protests-hike-in-lpg-price/article33275589.ece
08 December 2020||December 08 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sacred gesture||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sacred-gesture/article33275594.ece
08 December 2020||B. ChandrashekharHYDERABAD,TELANGANA||SC upholds allocation of power staff by panel||The Supreme Court has dismissed the pleas of Telangana State Power Generation Corporation (TSGenco), a few employees’ associations and individual employees of power utilities to withhold the concluding report of Justice D.M. Dharmadhikari Committee on the allocation of employees among power utilities of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. A Division Bench of the Apex Court comprising Justice J. Ashok Bhusan and M.R. Shah said on Monday that there is no merit in the objections to the One-Man (Justice Dharmadhikari) Committee’s concluding report of June 20 and made it clear that “it is obligatory for power utilities of both the State and all concerned to carry out and implement the committee report and the directions of the committee”. The Supreme Court Bench observed that the One-Man Committee was aware of all objections and has taken a conscious decision to finalise the allocation between two States and “we do not find any such error in the process which may warrant any clarification or direction by this Court”. Further, the Court felt that apart from the allocation of 655 employees from Telangana to Andhra Pradesh and an equal number from AP to Telangana, no other personnel working for the power utilities in the two States were disturbed by the final allocation made by the One-Man Committee. On the plea to taking exception to reciprocity of 655 employees, the Court said: “We do not find any error in reciprocity. The One-Man Committee took a decision that when 655 employees are coming from Telangana to AP, same number should go from AP to Telangana. The Court agreed with APGenco’s submission that reciprocity of 655 employees was “to maintain financial neutrality” of the power utilities in the two States and to maintain the ratio of 3,552:2,550, as laid down by the provisions of the AP Reorganisation Act, between AP and Telangana utilities. The concluding report of the One-Man Committee along with the final list of employees allocation, which is utility-wise and personnel-wise, is clear and unambiguous and there is no merit in the applications (pleas) of Telangana power utilities the Court observed. On the pleas of employees’ associations and individual employees the Court concluded: “The allocation process completed by the One-Man Committee can’t be challenged by any employee, officer or any utility before any forum”. Meanwhile, the Supreme Court judgement is likely to have a huge impact on the postings and promotions within Telangana utilities since promotions were given after relieving 1,157 employees to AP utilities in the past. When contacted, Chairman and Managing Director of TS-Genco D. Prabhakar Rao said they would abide by the Supreme Court verdict.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/sc-upholds-allocation-of-power-staff-by-panel/article33275369.ece
08 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||FASTag at toll plazas must from January 1||Beginning January 1, vehicle users need to be more careful as the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has decided that user fee at all toll plazas across the country would be collected only through FASTag. This means, all the lanes on toll plazas, including those in Telangana, would be FASTag-enabled only. While 70% of the vehicle users have already purchased FASTag stickers from either banks or the point of sales (POS) opened at the toll plazas, the NHAI is keen that the remaining 30% vehicles also have FASTags. The NHAI functioning under the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways, in a circular dated December 4, had issued detailed Standard Operating Procedures for 100% implementation of FASTag from January 1. It may be mentioned here that the NHAI had decided to implement FASTag from December 1 last year but it was put off by a fortnight due to poor response from the motorists. In a bid to avoid inconvenience to travellers, the NHAI has decided that vehicles without FASTag can get it at all the toll plazas. It also wanted the concessionaires to provide high-performing Electronic Toll Collection (ETC) infrastructure. Spot recharge of FASTag and quick complaint redressal are some of the SOPs. More points of sales Sources in the NHAI-Hyderabad regional office told The Hindu that more POS would be made available at all the 21 toll plazas in Telangana. “We will have at least 8-10 POS on each side 24x7,” sources said, adding that this time round, there will be strict implementation. “This time, vehicles without FASTag will not be allowed into any lane. Any vehicle that enters the lane will be made to pay double user fee. We are going to deploy the station marshals to guide non-FASTag vehicles to go to the POS and buy the tags and then enter the designated lanes,” the senior official said. The SOP clearly states that the ETC infrastructure at the plazas should be fully operational and top class and any normal FASTag vehicle will be able to cross the toll plaza within three seconds without stopping. Hand-held readers are strictly prohibited except in temporary toll plazas. The authorities have also prohibited back and forth movement of vehicles to adjust FASTag reading. CCTV camera feed would be checked to verify this and strict penal action would be taken against the concessionaire if such activity is noted, the guidelines suggest. In what will be a relief for the vehicle users is that if the ETC is not working, free pass will be given to the valid FASTag holders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/fastag-at-toll-plazas-must-from-january-1/article33275352.ece
08 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||BJP leaders flays ‘sarkari bandh’||Telangana Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders on Monday appealed to farmers and citizens at large not to support to the ‘sarkari bandh' and fall into the “political trap” of the Opposition parties on Tuesday. “It is unfortunate that a State government has officially declared that it is supporting the bandh. I appeal to farmers not to mortgage their interests by believing the TRS and other Opposition parties on the propaganda unleashed against the three farm Acts cleared by the Parliament recently,” said Union Minister of State for Home G. Kishan Reddy. Addressing a press conference in Delhi, the Minister said he is assuring farmers on behalf of the party and the Centre that “nothing will be done now or in the future to jeopardise the interests of the farmers.” The three Acts were brought forth after discussions in various fora and it has been the demand of many agro-economists for years to benefit the farmers and remove the shackles imposed on them, Turning to Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao, Mr. Reddy questioned why he is shifting the blame onto the Centre for every problem, including being unable to even purchase fine rice, which he had forced the farmers to grow but is not even bothered about procuring. “The Centre has been consistently buying the farm produce of many crops from various procurement centres across Telangana,” he said. National OBC chairman K. Laxman charged the Chief Minister of “shedding crocodile tears” for farmers as the TRS government had never implemented the loan waiver properly and farmers were even lathicharged for seeking the minimum support price. The farm Acts brought out by the Centre is only meant to allow farmers to sell their produce wherever they wished to and there is no truth in abolition of market yards of the MSP, he said. Vice-president D.K. Aruna criticised the TRS government for supporting the bandh call and pointed out that in the last six years not a single protest was allowed in the State and Mr. Rao was not even ready to receive a single representation from any aggrieved section. Party president Bandi Sanjay Kumar said TRS aligning with the Congress in this agitation only exposes its “political bankruptcy.” If the State government is serious about tackling farmers issues, it should first implement the Central welfare schemes for them like insurance, farm mechanisation, soil testing, micro-irrigation etc. besides abolishing the current market committees, and establish farmers panels.  Nothing will be done now or in the future to jeopardise the interests of the farmers. G. Kishan Reddy, Union Minister of State for Home.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bjp-leaders-flay-sarkari-bandh/article33275371.ece
08 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Non-COVID admission yet to reach full capacity at Gandhi||More than two-weeks after non-COVID services were resumed at Gandhi Hospital, the in-patient case load is yet to reach full capacity. Before COVID-19 pandemic hit the State, around 1,800 to 2,000 in-patient beds used to be occupied at the State-run hospital against the sanctioned bed capacity of 1,018 while 3,000 to 4,000 people used to consult doctors there on out-patient (OP) basis. On Monday, only around 330 non-COVID IP admissions and over 680 OP admissions were reported. According to the media bulletin issued by the State Health department, 126 COVID patients had been admitted on Sunday. After COVID cases started to increase in the State, the hospital was turned into an exclusive COVID care centre around March-end. In November, junior doctors at the hospital had staged protests demanding non-COVID services be resumed as they were attending only coronavirus patients, which was restricting their training and knowledge of treating other health problems. Non-COVID services were resumed on November 21. On the first day, only 15 non-COVID in-patients were admitted. “The admissions are increasing gradually,” said hospital superintendent M. Raja Rao. Doctors working there said more patients might get admitted as word spreads about non-COVID services having resumed at Gandhi Hospital. The government hospital holds significance as accident and emergency cases are rushed there as well as to Osmania General Hospital (OGH). When only COVID patients were admitted to Gandhi Hospital, the non-COVID case load had substantially increased at OGH. OGH in need of relief When non-COVID services resumed at Gandhi Hospital, it was expected that non-COVID case load at OGH will come down. However, sources said patients are getting admitted in excess in some departments at the latter. At one point in November, non-availability of beds in the tertiary care hospital made headlines. Because of the scarcity, some patients were made to take rest on stretchers and wheelchairs. Doctors demanded immediate intervention. However, the issue is not completely resolved yet. “Currently, the total admissions at OGH are only around 60% of the sanctioned bed strength (1,385). The number of patients in some departments, though, exceed the number of available beds. General Surgery, Orthopaedics and Neurosurgery are some departments which are running out of space. We don’t think this load will decrease even if more patients get admitted at Gandhi Hospital,” said sources in OGH. They said that the issue of bed scarcity emerged after the in-patient block was shut down. “There is an urgent need to construct a new building to address bed scarcity apart from other major issues,” sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/non-covid-admission-yet-to-reach-full-capacity-at-gandhi/article33275348.ece
08 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||HC upholds SEC circular on validity of voting mark||Telangana High Court on Monday passed an order permitting State Election Commission to treat ballot papers with ‘distinguish mark’ as valid along with those having mark of Swastik, paving way for announcement of the result of Neredmet division in GHMC. The counting of Neredmet division was taken up along with other 149 divisions of GHMC, to which elections were held recently, on Friday. A day before counting, the SEC issued a circular instructing returning officers to treat ballot papers with ‘distinguish mark’ as valid other than those having swastik mark. Challenging this circular, two persons belonging to BJP moved a House Motion. Justice A. Abhishek Reddy, who heard the writ petition, passed interim direction not to declare results of the division in which disputed ballot papers are more than the number of votes secured by the wining candidate. In Neredmet division, TRS candidate candidate got a lead of 504 over the BJP nominee. But the disputed ballot papers were 544. In compliance with the court order, election authorities withheld result of the division. Meanwhile, the SEC filed an appeal petition before a division bench which referred the matter back to the single judge. After hearing contentions of senior counsels D. Prakash Reddy and G. Vidyasagar Rao representing the petitioners and the SEC respectively, Justice A. Abhishek Reddy passed order to treat ballot papers with distinguish mark as valid. He stated in the order that election authorities had the power to decide upon the marks to be used on ballot papers. With the judge’s order, the authorities are likely to count the 544 ballot papers with distinguish mark and announce the result.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hc-upholds-sec-circular-on-validity-of-voting-mark/article33275358.ece
08 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Mega recruitment by Railways||Indian Railways’ massive online recruitment for the middle and lower-cadre key maintenance personnel, hit by the COVID-10 pandemic, is back on track with more than 1.40 lakh posts to be filled in from April to June next year through computerised online tests in select centres across the country. “The issue is, we have received 2.44 crore applicants for the posts including for typists, clerks and others. We are planning special trains to ensure the applicants can reach the nearest test centre within their own States or travel for a short distance with all the pandemic protocols,” said Railway Board Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Vinod Kumar Yadav. There are 1,663 vacancies for stenos and teachers for which 1.03 lakh had applied and the test is scheduled to be taken up later this month from December 15 to 18. For the traditional non-technical popular categories like guards, station masters, office clerks,commercial clerks and so on, there are 35,028 vacancies for which 1.26 crore had applied. Exam is scheduled to be held from December 28 to March 2021. For the posts of track maintenance, points personnel and other grade one posts there are 1,03,769 vacancies for which are there 1.15 crore applicants. Exam for these posts are to be held from April 2021 to June 2021, the chairman elaborated in a recent interaction. Mr. Yadav said the delayed training schedules for the selected loco-pilots held up due to the ongoing restrictions will begin in a coordinated and phased manner. “We are planning to complete the training by August next year,” he said. Railways has taken Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s call for ‘Atmanirbhar’ seriously and this has been reflected immediately in ensuring the local firms get a major shore of all new contracts. The prestigious High Speed Rail link between Ahmedabad and Mumbai too has seen upto Rs. 32,000 crore contracts in two packages awarded for 325 km of viaduct and five stations with 72% local content. “We have had detailed discussions with the Japanese and decided to enhance the local content from 42% and awarded the biggest ever engineering, procurement and contract of Rs. 25,000 crore for this project,” he said. Enhancing the local content in construction of this modern rail corridor will ensure trained skilled manpower is available whenever the government wants to start more high-speed corridors. Permissions for wildlife, forestry and coastal regulation zone were obtained so the project is on course from Gujarat side whereas permissions are pending from Maharastra side upon which other tenders will be called, said the CEO. For proposed Vandebharat trains too the local content was increased to 75%. Indian Railways had just 1.5% import component and this too will be reduced with indigenous manufacture of track machines and axle & wheel machines to start soon, added Mr.Yadav.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/mega-recruitment-by-railways/article33275385.ece
08 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||State records 517 fresh coronavirus cases||The COVID-19 tally in Telangana reached 2,73,858 with another 517 persons testing positive for the novel coronavirus on Sunday. While 33,098 people underwent tests, results of 644 were awaited. Two more COVID patients died, pushing up the toll to 1,474. From December 1, as many as 51,000 to 60,000 tests were being performed in a day. However, on Sunday, only 33,908 samples were examined. Of those, 30,918 opted for government health facilities. The new 517 cases include 102 from GHMC region, 57 from Rangareddy, 36 from Medchal-Malkajgiri and 33 from Karimnagar. There were no cases in Narayanpet and Kamareddy, and just one in Jogulamba-Gadwal. So far, a total of 58,12,588 samples have been examined. Of the total cases, 7,778 are active while 2,64,606 have recovered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/state-records-517-fresh-coronavirus-cases/article33275347.ece
08 December 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Woman found dead near Jalpally lake||The body of a partially disrobed woman was found near Jalpally lake at Pahadi Shareef here in the early hours of Monday. Police said that the woman, who is yet to be identified, is aged between 25 and 30 years and the incident might have taken place between 1 a.m. and 4 a.m. Her face was damaged beyond recognition as the suspect bludgeoned her with a stone, LB Nagar DCP Sunpreet Singh said. Speaking to The Hindu after visiting the crime scene, Mr. Singh said that the body was shifted to Osmania General Hospital morgue for autopsy and they are analysing the video footage of surveillance cameras in the area to identify and nab the suspect. When asked if the victim was sexually assaulted before she was bludgeoned to death, the officer said: “this aspect can be known only after the postmortem examination. However, we are suspecting that she was raped before the murder.” Source said that the victim, apparently a married woman, came near Jalpally lake with a man, who spoke to her for a few minutes before resorting to the extreme act. A case was registered and investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/woman-found-dead-near-jalpally-lake/article33275362.ece
08 December 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Construction workers die of asphyxiation||Two construction workers reportedly died of asphyxiation inside the sump of an under-construction house at Feelkhana under Asif Nagar police station limits here on Monday. The victims have been identified as 22-year-old Chintu and 22-year-old Kotesh. According to Assistant Commissioner of Police Asif Nagar R.G. Siva Maruthi around 9 a.m. the duo entered the under-construction sump for work and due to low oxygen in the sump they lost consciousness and died. The police have booked the house owner for not providing safety equipment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/construction-workers-die-of-asphyxiation/article33275363.ece
08 December 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Entrepreneur found dead in hotel room||A 30-year-old man was found dead in a hotel room at Narsingi here on Monday. Mahesh Teja, an entrepreneur and native of Shadnagar in Rangareddy, reportedly hanged himself in the wee hours of Sunday and the incident came to light only after his parents along with hotel staff broke open the room door only to see him in a shocking state. Narsingi Sub-Inspector Kethavath Balram said that the victim checked into a hotel on Sunday and informed it to his parents.  There is always someone to listen at: +914066202000 or 6666 1117 at this suicide intervention centre Roshni.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/entrepreneur-found-dead-in-hotel-room/article33275364.ece
08 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TiE global summit today||A three-day global summit being hosted by The Indus Entrepreneurs, Hyderabad, as a forum to deliberate on various aspects of entrepreneurship and featuring some of the well-known names from different walks of life as speakers will get under way on Tuesday. It will be kicked off on December 8 and go on non-stop 60 hours across time zones, organisers said. The event is being conducted on an online platform in view of COVID-19 and the resultant travel as well as social distancing restrictions world over. Vice-President M.Venkaiah Naidu is scheduled to inaugurate the summit that will focus on issues faced by entrepreneurs, provide insights into strategies to grow and scale business with focus on new start-up ideas, and serve as a platform for funding. A total of 20,000 entrepreneurs, 200 investors, 300 global speakers, 10 world leaders, over 50 star speakers, successful celebrities, sportspersons and spiritual and wellness gurus will be attending the summit. Twenty five chapters from Americas, Europe, Africa, India and APAC will be represented at the summit, a release said. TiE Hyderabad President Sridhar Pinnapureddy said: “with 20,000 start-ups and entrepreneurs attending, we aim to help solvetheir most critical problems such as acquiring new customers in India and overseas, access to funding, mentors and board members.” It will provide an opportunity for entrepreneurs to network and access global customers through an AI-based matchmaking platform to help sellers find buyers from among 20,000 attendees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tie-global-summit-today/article33275353.ece
08 December 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Appeal for donations on Armed Forces’ Flag Day||Armed Forces Flag Day was celebrated at the Directorate of Sainik Welfare, Hyderabad, and all the 10 Regional Sainik Welfare Offices across the State on Monday. Telangana Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan inaugurated the programme by donating generously to the Armed Forces Flag Day fund. The fund was started in 1949 to ensure rehabilitation and resettlement of ex-servicemen and their families. Later, she presented trophies to Rangareddy and Nizamabad regions for collecting good amount of funds during the year. Home Minister Mohammed Mahmood Ali also donated funds. Speaking on the occasion, Sainik Welfare Department director Col. Ramesh Kumar appealed to the general public to contribute generously to the Armed Forces Flag Day fund. The cheque/demand draft drawn in favour of ‘The Director, Sainik Welfare, T.S. Hyderabad’ or ‘Armed Forces Flag Day Fund, T.S.’ can be dispatched to Director Sainik Welfare, Raj Bhavan Road, Somajiguda, Hyderabad, he said. He requested donors to write their name, address and mobile number behind the cheque so that a receipt can be sent to them. “They can also remit their generous contribution through NEFT and intimate through e-mail (directorrsb-ts@nic.in) so that a receipt can be forwarded to their address,” Col. Kumar said. Dnations for the Flag Day fund are eligible for IT exemption under Sec 80 G of Income Tax Act and also under Corporate Social Responsibility, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/appeal-for-donations-on-armed-forces-flag-day/article33275355.ece
08 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TNGOs to take part in protest programme||The Telangana Non-Gazetted Officers have announced their resolve to participate in Bharat Bandh on Tuesday called in protest against the “anti-farmer bills” passed by the Central government. TNGOs central union president M. Rajender and general secretary R. Pratap Reddy, in a letter addressed to Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar, said the employees would conduct various programmes in support of the bandh from mandal to State headquarter level in line with the call given by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao extending his support to the protest. They recalled that the Telangana government is implementing a slew of welfare measures like Rythu Bandhu, insurance cover and others in the interest of farmers. The Central government on the contrary is acting at the behest of the corporates at the expense of farmers as could be seen from the Bills passed by the Parliament. The Bills are not only against the interests of the farmers, but also against the interests of the nation, they alleged. They urged the Chief Secretary to give permission to employees who can not attend to their duties as public transportation is likely to take a hit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tngos-to-take-part-in-protest-programme/article33275373.ece
08 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Create brand image for our cotton: KCR||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has directed the officials of the Agriculture department to work out modalities that will be needed for creating brand image for cotton grown in the State enhancing significant rise in its demand in the national and international markets. Officials concerned should prepare a strategy to publicise the special qualities and strengths of the cotton grown in the State. The Agriculture department should conduct a seminar with experts in this regard so that the demand for cotton cultivated in the State is increased significantly. “Cotton staple in Telangana is much longer as compared with other varieties cultivated in different parts of the country. The fibre tested has been stronger too,” he said. The Chief Minister wanted the officials concerned to ensure that proper instructions are given to farmers on how to clean the cotton picked from the fields, packaging it with proper cautions and other aspects so that there was growth in its demand in the international markets. The State was ranked second in the growth of cotton in the country with cultivation of the crop spanning over 60 lakh acres. The crop yields would be much higher when it was cultivated through irrigated water and availability of adequate quantum of irrigated water was ensured through construction of several irrigation projects across the State. Elaborating the measures taken by the government since the formation of the State, he said there were only 60 ginning mills in the State at the time of its formation and the number had now increased to 300. Arrangements were also made to ensure that ginning mills were set up in the areas where cotton was grown on a large scale.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/create-brand-image-for-our-cotton-kcr/article33275374.ece
08 December 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||CP meets women officers||Hyderabad City Commissioner of Police Anjani Kumar on Monday conducted a vertical interaction with all women officers of city police. Women officers from all wings, including traffic, law and order, City Armed Reserve, and IT, participated . Earlier, retired IPS officer S.Umapathi conducted a training session for 120 senior officers on investigation of cases of crime against women and children.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cp-meets-women-officers/article33275365.ece
08 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||CIFA, other ryots’ bodies want Centre to hear them||Consortium of Indian Farmers Associations (CIFA) along with several farmers’ bodies in various States and commodity associations have appealed to the farmers that they be given an opportunity to express their views before any decision is taken by the Centre on withdrawal of reforms. In a letter addressed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, chief advisor of CIFA P. Chengal Reddy said they represent 88% of the total farmers/crops raised across the country. They were not getting minimum support price. Stating that CIFA and other associations were of the view that reforms were beneficial to farmers and when there was discussion on withdrawal of reforms Mr. Reddy said an opportunity be given to farmers raising other crops too to hear their issues and views before taking any decision.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cifa-other-ryots-bodies-want-centre-to-hear-them/article33275384.ece
08 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||MJCET inks MoU with its student||Management of Muffakham Jah College of Engineering and Technology (MJCET) has signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with one of their students, who is also the CEO of a private research lab. Sidhant, who is a student of Electrical and Electronics Engineering course at the college, heads Binford Research Private Labs, Hyderabad. The agreement aims to promote development of cutting-edge technology for next generation unmanned aerial vehicles (UAV) or drones. The private lab will support MJ college to organise workshops, seminars, lectures and joint projects that leverage cutting-edge unmanned technologies, informed a press release on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/mjcet-inks-mou-with-its-student/article33275349.ece
08 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TPCC treasurer quits party||Ending speculation over his plans to quit the party, treasurer of Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) Gudur Narayan Reddy on Monday resigned from the primary membership of the Congress, as also from the post in TPCC and his AICC membership. In a letter sent to AICC president Sonia Gandhi, Mr. Reddy said he was associated with the Congress since his student days, from 1981, and as disciplined soldier of the party he had discharged his duties to the best of his abilities in whatever responsibility was assigned to him by the party leadership. He is likely to join the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tpcc-treasurer-quits-party/article33275367.ece
08 December 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||traffic advisory||In view of ‘Bharat Bandh’ called by various farmers’ unions and political parties on Tuesday, the Cyberabad police issued a traffic advisory. Several protests might be held at various places, including on roads and junctions in and around the city, affecting regular movement of traffic, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Traffic) S.M. Vijay Kumar said. People going to RGI Airport are advised to take the ORR and plan their travel accordingly, he said. Free passage for emergency services and ambulances will be ensured on all roads. Commuters are advised to contact Cyberabad Police Control Room: 040-2785 3413, 040-2300 2424, 9490617100 and 8500411111, or Dial 100 if there is any difficulty or obstruction en route, Mr. Kumar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/traffic-advisory/article33275377.ece
08 December 2020||Khammam,TELANGANA||KTR renews appeal to make Bharat Bandh a success||Dubbing the Centre’s newly enacted farm legislation as “black laws”, Telangana Information Technology and Municipal Administration Minister K.T. Rama Rao renewed his appeal to the farmers of the State to actively participate in the ‘Bharat Bandh’ called by farmers’ organisations on December 8. Mr. Rao, accompanied by Roads and Buildings Minister V. Prashanth Reddy, Home Minister Mahamood Ali and Transport Minister P. Ajay Kumar inaugurated a slew of development works, including a mini tank bund encompassing a walking track, a park and an open gym at Khanapuram as well as ‘Vaikunta Dhamam’ consisting of an electric crematorium at Ballepalli in Raghunadhapalem mandal near here on Monday morning. A host of other development works worth about Rs. 150 crore have been lined up for inauguration by the Ministers later this afternoon. These include the IT hub at Khanapuram Haveli and the Road Over Bridge at Dhamsalapuram under the Khammam Municipal Corporation limits. Addressing a gathering of farmers in Raghunadhapalem mandal earlier in the day, Mr. Rao called upon farmers and all sections of the State to make Tuesday’s Bharat Bandh a success in response to the appeal made by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao to protect farmers’ interests. Mr. Rao called for raising a unified voice against what he termed a “conspiracy” to hand over the farm sector to the corporate entities and make farmers labourers at the hands of the big corporate players. TRS floor leader in Lok Sabha and Khammam MP Nama Nageswara Rao and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ktr-renews-appeal-to-make-bharat-bandh-a-success/article33275382.ece
08 December 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||‘IT product firms keen on Khammam’||The newly inaugurated IT Hub in Khammam, a key initiative of the State government’s decentralised approach to expand Information Technology to tier-II cities, will provide an ideal platform for promotion of technology innovation, employment generation, skill and entrepreneurship development, said Information Technology and Municipal Administration Minister K. T. Rama Rao. The IT hubs in tier-II cities usually attract the call centres and the business process outsourcing (BPO) companies, but the Khammam IT Hub drew IT product companies too in a testament to the potential of Khammam which is endowed with a vast talent pool and infrastructure, he said while addressing a public meeting after inaugurating the first phase of the IT Hub at Khanapuram Haveli here on Monday. Mr. Rama Rao, accompanied by Roads and Buildings Minister V. Prashanth Reddy, Home Minister Mahamood Ali, Transport Minister P. Ajay Kumar, and Khammam MP Nama Nageswara Rao inaugurated around a dozen development works worth about Rs. 221.43 crore in the Khammam Municipal Corporation (KMC) limits and the adjoining Raghunadhapalem mandal. As many as 19 IT companies, including several US-based firms, came forward to start their offices in the Khammam IT Hub building constructed at an estimated cost of Rs. 27.65 crore with a built up area of 41,178 sq.ft under the aegis of the Telangana State Industrial Infrastructure Corporation (TSIIC). Mr. Rama Rao announced that Rs. 20 crore will be sanctioned for construction of the second phase of the IT Hub with a built up area of around 30,000 to 40,000 sq.ft at the same premises. The Telangana Academy for Skill and Knowledge (TASK) to be housed in the ground floor of the IT Hub provides an opportunity for the local youth, including the young techies, for skilling, upskilling and reskilling themselves to realise their full potential, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/it-product-firms-keen-on-khammam/article33275626.ece
08 December 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Minister on inauguration spree||Municipal Administration Minister K. T. Rama Rao along with his three cabinet colleagues went on an inauguration spree in the city and its adjoining areas on Monday launching multiple development works worth over Rs. 220 crore, including throwing open the long awaited Road Over Bridge (ROB) at Dhamsalapuram for traffic. His whirlwind tour saw a string of inaugurations ranging from road development works, the IT hub, the Khanapuram mini-tank bund, the NSP walkway, the Vaikunta Dhamam encompassing an electric crematorium, the Police Commissionerate office with modern amenities, among others. Elections to the Khammam Municipal Corporation (KMC) are scheduled to be held in March next year. After unveiling the bronze statue of former Prime Minister P. V. Narasimha Rao at Lakaram junction, Mr. Rama Rao demanded that the Centre confer Bharat Ratna posthumously on P. V. Narasimha Rao. At a public meeting later, Mr. Rama Rao appreciated that the newly developed park along the Gollapadu channel at Sundaraiahnagar was inaugurated by the local CPI (M) leaders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/minister-on-inauguration-spree/article33275627.ece
08 December 2020||Siddipet,TELANGANA||Harish Rao wants Acts repealed immediately||Finane Minister T. Harish Rao urged people to make Bharat bandh scheduled for Tuesday, a grand success. He said party activists will participate in the programme voluntarily. Addressing a gathering after participating in the oath taking ceremony of newly nominated Market Committee of Husnabad on Monday, Mr. Rao said all three farm related Acts passed by the Parliament are against the interests of farmers and they must repealed immediately. “All the three Acts do favour the corporate organisation whereas farmers will be at receiving end. That is why we are opposing them. Ours is a farmer-friendly government and we will take all steps in that direction. The BJP leaders are organising protests demanding purchase of fine variety paddy must first get the orders issued by Union government that levy will not be collected from the States offering bonus to fine variety,” said Mr. Rao. MLA V. Satish Kumar and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/harish-rao-wants-acts-repealed-immediately/article33275379.ece
08 December 2020||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Govt. sanctions Rs. 45 crore for IT Tower at Siddipet||Moving a step forward to bring Information Technology (IT) companies to Tier II cities, the State government has sanctioned an IT Tower at Duddeda on the outskirts of the district headquarters. Orders were issued late on Saturday. The proposed facility to house the IT companies will come up adjacent to Rajiv Rahadari and the location will be in between LV Prasad Eye Institute and Tourism Hotel. Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao, scheduled to visit the district headquarters on December 10, is expected to lay foundation stone for the construction of the IT Tower. The IT office facillity will be constructed in about 60,000 sft and memorandum of understanding (MoU) will be signed with major IT companies like Infosys in the presence of Mr. Chandrasekhar Rao. Finance Minister T. Harish Rao thanked the Chief Minister for sanctioning the IT Tower. The Chief Minister is also scheduled to inaugurate includes 2,460 double bedroom houses constructed in gated community model at Narsapur at a cost of Rs. 163 crore, government medical college at a cost of Rs. 135 crore, underground drainage system at Chintacheruvu at a cost of Rs. 278 crore and guest house at Ranganaiksagar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/govt-sanctions-rs-45-crore-for-it-tower-at-siddipet/article33275624.ece
08 December 2020||December 08 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Oil palm cultivation on 8 lakh acres soon: CM||The State Government has resolved to promote oil palm cultivation in eight lakh acres in different parts of the State. Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao approved oil palm cultivation extension project to be taken up with an estimated Rs. 4,800 crore. The project envisaged encouraging oil palm cultivation by offering 50 per cent subsidy to farmers opting for cultivation of the crop. The Chief Minister recalled that oil palm cultivation would be feasible in such areas where there was availability of irrigated water and farmers could utilize facilities like significantly enhanced availability of irrigated water and 24X7 free power for taking up the crop. The National Reassessment committee of the Central Government had identified 25 districts of the State as suitable to oil palm cultivation and the government had accordingly prioritized promotion of oil palm cultivation in the State. The Chief Minister reviewed the progress of oil palm cultivation with Agriculture Minister S. Niranjan Reddy and senior officials of Agriculture and Horticulture departments on Monday. According to an official release, oil palm could be cultivated in four acres with the same quantum of water that an acre of paddy would consume. Cultivation of oil palm as an alternative was mooted as stocks of paddy and other crops were in excess of the demand. As against the 22 million tonne demand for oil annually across the country, oil seeds that could meet the requirement of seven lakh tonne were being cultivated and this was in turn resulting in high cost of imports. The total extent of oil palm in the country was currently pegged at eight lakh acres and it needed to be extended significantly. The Telangana Government had accordingly decided to promote cultivation of oil palm in eight lakh acres in the State as against the present cultivation on 38,000 acres spread over four districts – Kothagudem, Khammam, Nalgonda and Suryapet. The government had identified 8.14 lakh acres in 25 districts including Nirmal, Mahbubabad, Kamareddy, Warangal Rural, Nizamabad, Siddipet, Bhupalpally, Peddapalli, Karimnagar, Adilabad and Jagtial among others as suitable for oil palm cultivation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/oil-palm-cultivation-on-8-lakh-acres-soon-cm/article33275376.ece
08 December 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Army jawan forced to work as daily wager||A jawan, who had served more than two decades with the Indian Army and missed the deadline of re-joining duty reportedly on account of his wife’s illness, is forced to work as a daily-wager without post-retirement benefits in Odisha. Chanduram Majhi (51), a resident of Paraskhol in Nuapada district, belongs to the Gond tribe and was the first from his family to be selected as a jawan in 1988. As part of his association with Army Service Corps (ASC), he had worked in various places — from Gaya to Srinagar and from Chandigarh to New Jalpaiguri. “During my long years of service in the Indian Army, I had dreamt of providing good education and bright future to my daughters. But by quirk of fate, I ended up working as a labourer and my four daughters had to drop out from school and college. They help me earn a living,” lamented Mr. Majhi. The tribal man from Odisha’s Nuapada district alleged he was victim of bureaucracy and deprived of legitimate dues. “Until 2011, I was happy with the life with careering progressing at normal pace. My wife suddenly became ill and her body below waste got paralysed. I had to be on her side,” he narrated. Mr. Majhi said he was promoted to Havildar in ASC and was to retire on August 31, 2012. “I had even taken last leave of my service. But, wife’s condition worsened so much that I could not rejoin on the scheduled date. I was declared deserter by ASC,” said Mr, Majhi. His wife was admitted in different army hospitals including at Army Hospital Research and Referral, New Delhi. Despite all efforts, his wife died on November 13, 2012. After his wife’s death, he tried to contact his last ASC unit and avail his dues. According to the Mr. Majhi, his post-retirement benefits would have been over Rs. 30 lakh. Taking note of his plight, the Nuapada district administration has sought a detailed report. The administration has decided to start communication with the Ministry of Defence on Mr. Majhi’s service details.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/army-jawan-forced-to-work-as-daily-wager/article33275239.ece
08 December 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Launch of fortified rice in PDS opposed by activists||As the Odisha government is preparing to launch fortified rice in the Public Distribution System (PDS) in Malkangiri district from coming February, more than 100 activists have opposed the move saying the people have sufficient substitutes in natural food to meet the nutritional needs. “Vitamin C and calcium are available in abundance in natural food. Vitamin C is water soluble. If the rice is laced with Vitamin C, it will get washed away while the rice is cleaned before cooking. It is a futile exercise to add Vitamin C to uncooked rice. In our traditional cooking practices, lemon juice is squeezed into cooked food before its consumption,” said Samit Panda, a lead member of Right To Food Campaign, Odisha. He said the move would lead to wasteful expenditure of taxpayers’ money.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/launch-of-fortified-rice-in-pds-opposed-by-activists/article33275231.ece
08 December 2020||Chandigarh,||AAP asks BJP leaders to quit party||Ahead of the call given for ‘Bharat Bandh’, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has urged BJP leaders in Punjab to quit the party and stand with farmers in support of their cause against Centre’s farm laws. AAP Punjab State chief and Lok Sabha MP Bhagwant Mann also accused the Congress and the Shiromani Akali Dal (Badal) of sabotaging the farmers movement.  Cong., SAD flayed “The Congress and the SAD along with the BJP had been working on an agenda to derail the farmers movement from the very beginning in order to facilitate the corporate houses to have their way,” he said. “The farmer is fighting for his survival, while the Central government is being adamant. At such a critical juncture, we must all rise above petty politics and come in open support of the annadaata , listening to the voice of our conscience,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/aap-asks-bjp-leaders-to-quit-party/article33275240.ece
08 December 2020||GURUGRAM,||‘MSP is the right of all farmers, govt. should ensure they get it’||Former Haryana Chief Minister and Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda has supported the Bharat Bandh called on December 8 and appealed to the public that protests should be peaceful and disciplined like the farmers movement. Mr. Hooda said the entire country and all organisations stand with the farmers. Mr. Hooda said the demands of the farmers are completely valid and the government should accept all their demands, without any further delay. He reiterated that Minimum Support Price of crops was the right of every farmer and it was the responsibility of every government to ensure that the farmers get MSP for their crops. Addressing a press conference in Jind, the Leader of Opposition said he had written a letter to the Haryana Governor demanding to call an emergency session of the Assembly. “The Congress will bring a no-confidence motion in the House as this government has clearly lost the trust of the public and the legislators. There is an atmosphere of political instability and mistrust of the government in the State. In these exceptional circumstances, the Governor should call a special session while discharging his constitutional responsibilities,” he stated.  JJP criticised Mr. Hooda said the farmers were staging a peaceful sit-in on the Delhi border with their demands for several days now but even today, Jannayak Janta Party and independent MLAs are clinging to power, instead of standing with the farmers. “They are talking about the support to the farmers, but are also continuing their support to the government. This No-Confidence Motion will expose legislators who are playing a ‘double-role’. Now, the legislators have to choose between the government and the farmer,” the Congress leader added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/msp-is-the-right-of-all-farmers-govt-should-ensure-they-get-it/article33275237.ece
08 December 2020||GURUGRAM/CHANDIGARH,||5 JJP MLAs announce support for farmers’ stir||In growing support for the farmers’ protest among legislators in Haryana, five Jannayak Janta Party (JJP) MLAs have now come out in support of the agitation seeking early resolution of the stand-off and demanding that the three farm laws enacted recently be withdrawn. In the wake of JJP’s Barwala MLA Jogi Ram Sihag refusing his appointment as chairman of the Haryana Housing Board last week, four more MLAs — Ram Kumar Gautam (Narnaund), Ishwar Singh (Gulha Cheeka), Amarjeet Dhanda (Julana) and Ram Karan Kala (Shahbad) — have issued statements announcing support for the farmers’ agitation. The leaders also objected to inappropriate comments being made against the farmers and attempts to defame the movement.  Resignation from board Earlier, Independent Dadri MLA Sombir Sangwan had resigned as Chairman of Haryana Livestock Development Board in support of the agitation and withdrawn support from the government. Downplaying the MLAs’ support to the agitation, JJP spokesperson Deep Kamal Saharan told The Hindu that the party’s national president Ajay Chautala had already demanded that the Centre should give a guarantee for minimum support price in writing and that the cases registered against the farmers during their march to Delhi be withdrawn. “The legislators’ support to the agitation is in line with the party’s stand on the issue. Besides, they have not made any assertions against the party or offered to resign. MLAs from all parties have supported the farmers’ agitation in Haryana,” said Mr. Saharan.  ‘Positive outcome’ Senior party leader Digvijay Chautala said the JJP stands firmly with the farmers and was hopeful of a positive outcome from the sixth round of meeting between agitating farmers’ unions and the Central government on December 9. He said all 10 legislators of JJP and the whole party stood in solidarity with the peasantry. Mr. Digvijay said senior leaders of the JJP along with Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala have been constantly in touch with the Central Ministers and advocating in favour of the farmers. He said that there was no need for MLAs to resign as all legislators are supporting the farmers. “All 90 MLAs, khaps, 36 b iradari s (communities) and all Sarv Samaj in Haryana besides the Union government are with the farmers and all are praying for the speedy solution of all issues,” Mr. Digvijay told journalists in Chandigarh. “For JJP, farmers and khaps are most important. The decisions of khaps are higher than anything else,” he said.  Under pressure The JJP, with a large support base among the farmers and the rural population in the State, has been under pressure to take a firm stand on the issue. Several farmer unions in Haryana also held a dharna in Sirsa last month demanding that party leader and Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala should resign. Rajendra Sharma, head of the Political Science Department at Maharshi Dayanand University, said that the JJP’s decision to support the BJP in government formation had already hit the party hard with its support base shifting back to the Indian National Lok Dal and the agitation would cause it further harm until “it takes a stand”. JJP recently cancelled its foundation day rally in Bhiwani on December 9 citing spike in COVID-19 cases, but political analysts construe it as a possible fallout of the farmers’ agitation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/5-jjp-mlas-announce-support-for-farmers-stir/article33275233.ece
08 December 2020||jaipur,||Shun arrogance, roll back laws, Gehlot tells Centre||Taking a strong stand in support of the agitating farmers, Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot asked the NDA government at the Centre on Monday to shun its “arrogance, insensitivity and adamant attitude” and roll back the agriculture sector laws. He also extended support to the call for Bharat Bandh on December 8. Mr. Gehlot said the Congress party stood with the farmers in ensuring that the mandi system and minimum support prices remained intact and the farmers and farmlands were saved from big corporates. “It is most worrying to see our farmers spending the nights in cold weather on roads, while the government continues to ignore their genuine demands,” he tweeted. Mr. Gehlot affirmed that Prime Minister Narendra Modi must “intervene directly,” listen to the leaders of the farmer unions and resolve the impasse created by the laws that were being stoutly opposed by agriculturists. “As more and more farmers are joining the agitation from across the country and gathering at Delhi’s borders at great inconvenience to women and children, who are part of the agitation too, the government must not delay paying heed to the welfare issues of the farmers,” Mr. Gehlot said.  Arrangements discussed The Chief Minister discussed the arrangements for maintaining law and order during Bharat Bandh at a meeting with senior police officers here and appealed to all sections of the society to maintain peace. He said the 12-day-long agitation of farmers from Punjab and Haryana had sent across a positive message, as it was completely peaceful and non-violent. Meanwhile, the Rashtriya Loktantrik Party (RLP), a constituent of NDA from Rajasthan, has also extended support to Bharat Bandh and announced that its workers, along with the farmers, would march to Delhi on December 12 to demand withdrawal of the farm laws. The farmers will assemble for a rally at Kotputli on Jaipur-Delhi national highway before embarking on the march.  Beniwal’s warning RLP supremo and Nagaur MP Hanuman Beniwal had announced last week that he would reconsider his party’s alliance with the Bharatiya Janata Party if the new legislations were not withdrawn. Mr. Beniwal, who has been vocal on the subject through the social media, gave his “last warning” in a letter addressed to Home Minister and NDA chairperson Amit Shah.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/shun-arrogance-roll-back-laws-gehlot-tells-centre/article33275235.ece
08 December 2020||JAIPUR,||Tribals come together to protect soil biodiversity||Tribals in the villages of southern Rajasthan, who utilised their indigenous agricultural practices to survive during the COVID-19 pandemic, have come together to protect soil biodiversity during an agriculture and tribal sovereignty campaign launched through 27 ‘Swaraj Sangathans’ in Banswara, Dungarpur and Pratapgarh districts. The villagers took a pledge to preserve their resources of farmland, water, livestock and indigenous seeds on the World Soil Day on Saturday. Special emphasis was laid on making efforts for harvesting of water coming to the agricultural fields and preventing the fertile soil being drained away. The Vaagad region, comprising the three tribal-dominated districts, witnessed the activities for spreading awareness about the livelihood rights of tribals, traditional farming and an effective resource management during 11 days of the campaign. Villagers from Dahod district in Gujarat and Bajana and Thandla regions of Madhya Pradesh also joined the campaign. Development practitioners, academicians and activists assembled at a conclave in Banswara at the end of the campaign to highlight the struggle of tribal population to preserve their indigenous practices as well as the challenges of survival amid malnourishment, weather variability and resource losses. Jayesh Joshi, secretary of Banswara-based Vaagdhara, said the exploitation of resources in the tribal areas and scientific advancements were making the lives of inhabitants difficult. Bhanwar Singh Chandana’, coordinating director of Udaipur’s Astha Sansthan, said the tribal communities wanted to live in harmony with the nature. Tribals were adversely affected by soil erosion, climate change, malnourishment and reducing biodiversity, he said. The conclave highlighted soil as legacy formed over thousands of years, which was to be left for the posterity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/tribals-come-together-to-protect-soil-biodiversity/article33275242.ece
08 December 2020||Mumbai,||HC sets aside order rejecting Amit Chandole’s ED custody||The Bombay High Court on Monday quashed and set aside an order by a special court rejecting Enforcement Directorate (ED) custody of Amit Chandole, an aide of Shiv Sena MLA Pratap Sarnaik, in an alleged money laundering case. A single judge Bench of Justice Prithviraj Chavan was hearing a revision criminal petition filed by the Central agency seeking Mr. Chandole’s custody as he was remanded in judicial custody till December 9 by the lower court. The application said, “His custody is needed to enable it to find the end use of money that changed hands as proceeds of crime in a security guard contract since 2014.” Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh, appearing for the ED, had previously said that he was “surprised’’ at the judicial remand granted to Mr. Chandole, promoter of Top Securities Group, just after three days of the ED custody, by a holiday court. Mr. Singh on Monday submitted files to the HC containing statements of witnesses which pressed for Mr. Chandole’s custody as he was needed for confrontation with accomplices and bank documents. However, senior advocate Rizwan Merchant, representing Mr. Chandole, opposed the prayer and said the special Prevention of Money Laundering Act court had followed the due procedure and his custody was not required. Mr. Chandole was arrested by the ED on November 24 after the agency conducted searches at around 10 places in Mumbai and Thane, of Top group, its promoters, and related people, including some politicians.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/hc-sets-aside-order-rejecting-amit-chandoles-ed-custody/article33275461.ece
08 December 2020||Mumbai,||Pawar’s remark on Rahul Gandhi draws sharp reaction from Cong.||In what could be seen as a sign of disagreement within the tripartite Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government in Maharashtra, the State unit of the Congress on Monday said that Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar failed to understand Rahul Gandhi. “We respect the seniority of Pawar saheb. But this time we feel that he failed to understand Mr. Gandhi,” Revenue Minister and State Congress president Balasaheb Thorat said. The Congress leader said that the misconception around Mr. Gandhi was due to the propaganda run by the BJP and the impression created by that campaign. “We are sure that he has begun his journey towards success,” Mr. Thorat said. Mr. Thorat was referring to the NCP chief’s statement a week ago where the latter said that Mr. Gandhi lacked consistency needed to be accepted as a leader by the country. He was speaking at a function organised by Marathi newspaper Lokmat . Congress leader and Women and Child Welfare Minister Yashomati Thakur had reacted strongly to Mr. Pawar’s statement. “Being a working president of MPCC I must appeal colleagues in MVA if you want stable govt in Maharashtra then stop commenting leadership of Congress. Everybody should follow basic rules of coalition. Our leadership is very strong and stable. Formation of MVA is result of our strong belief in democratic values,” she had tweeted, hinting the displeasure of the Congress leadership over the comments made by the NCP chief. When asked whether he agreed to the statement made by Ms. Thakur, the State Congress president said that she had spoken what every Congress leader and worker felt. “Mr. Gandhi is our leader. He is not only accepted within the party but under his leadership, the party across the country is getting united and rebuilt. He is leading from the front despite all the attacks and hardships faced by him in the past,” Mr. Thorat said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/pawars-remark-on-rahul-gandhi-draws-sharp-reaction-from-cong/article33275463.ece
08 December 2020||Mumbai,||MSRTC buses will ply||Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) buses would ply as scheduled during Tuesday’s ‘Bharat Bandh’ called by various outfits to protest the Centre’s farm laws, a senior official of the State-run undertaking said. MSRTC managing director Shekhar Channe told PTI that the buses would ply unless there were law and order problems. “Transportation of essential commodities like milk, vegetables and fruits have been excluded from the bandh,” said Daya Natkar, secretary of Maharashtra Rajya Truck Tempo Tankers Vahatuk Sangh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/msrtc-buses-will-ply/article33275458.ece
08 December 2020||Mumbai,||Ensure online education for specially abled students: HC||The Bombay High Court on Monday said it was the Maharashtra government’s duty to ensure special online education for specially abled students across the State and suggested using Doordarshan to telecast educational programmes. A Division Bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G.S. Kulkarni was hearing a public interest litigation filed by an NGO, Anamprem, raising concerns over problems being faced by students with disabilities amid the COVID-19 pandemic. The petitioner’s advocate, Uday Warunjikar, told the court that due to various problems like non-availability of staff, or mobile facilities, students with disabilities were unable to pursue their education in this pandemic. Mr. Warunjikar suggested that the government make use of local government channels and radio to impart education to such students. “Find out some solution.. It is the State government’s duty. You (government) can take some slot.. for one or two hours.. on Doordarshan and show special educational programmes,” Chief Justice Datta said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/ensure-online-education-for-specially-abled-students-hc/article33275460.ece
08 December 2020||Mumbai,||42 held in orchestra bar raid||An orchestra bar in Akurli area of Mumbai’s Kandivali was raided and 42 people, including 30 customers, were arrested, an official of the police’s north region said on Monday. The raid was conducted by the special squad of the Additional Commissioner of Police (north) late on Sunday night and 19 women were found dancing in an obscene manner with customers, he said. “Apart from customers, the cashier, manager, nine waiters, and two singers were arrested. They have been booked under the IPC and the Epidemic Diseases Act,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/42-held-in-orchestra-bar-raid/article33275459.ece
08 December 2020||New Delhi,||‘Feluda test to start in Delhi in 10 days’||The Delhi government has decided to conduct a part of the total COVID-19 tests in the city using Feluda paper strip test. It is expected to start within a week to 10 days, according to officials. The test gives faster results than RT-PCR test. The government has also gone ahead with the training of personnel for COVID-19 vaccination drive to be conducted, once it is available. “The government has asked 47 Delhi government hospitals to nominate two doctors each to be trained for the vaccination. These doctors will then conduct training programmes for others and help to make the whole training process faster,” a Delhi government official told The Hindu . The official said that the doctors and selected State-level officers will be “master trainers” who will then train the medical officers. “Then, the cold chain handlers will be trained. The ANMs and nurses, who will be the actual vaccinators, will also be trained,” the official said. Training will also be imparted to ASHA workers and Anganwadi workers to spread the message about the vaccine in the community, according to officials. Also, of the total healthcare workers in the city, more than 1.5 lakh have registered with the Delhi government to get inoculated once the vaccine is available and about 50,000-60,000 healthcare workers are expected to register with the Central government. “These healthcare workers will be the first people getting the vaccine. Over 50,000 people being registered with the Central government are workers connected to Central government hospitals in the city. But they will be also be inoculated by the State government after they are registered,” a second official said. The Feluda paper strip test is also done in a lab and a nasopharyngeal swab will be used to conduct the test, just like the RT PCR test. “Some microbiologists of the government were of the opinion that the test did not add any value as we already have RT-PCR and Rapid Antigen Test. But in the end, the government decided to go ahead with it. This will increase the testing capacity, but it will not replace the RT-PCR test, which is the gold standard of testing,” the official said. The official said that the test gives results within one hour, which is much faster than the RT-PCR test. On October 22, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) had issued an advisory for the use of Feluda paper strip test. “The government is yet to procure the Feluda paper strip test kits from TATA group or the ICMR, but we expect to do it within a week and also conduct training for the people using the kits,” the official added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/feluda-test-to-start-in-delhi-in-10-days/article33275230.ece
08 December 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi sees lowest daily new cases in 3 months||Delhi witnessed 1,674 new COVID-19 cases in the last 24 hours — lowest in over three months — taking the total number of cases to 5,93,924, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Monday. Also, 63 more deaths have been reported in the past 24 hours, taking the total number of deaths to 9,706. The last time the number of new cases was less than Monday’s figure was on August 31, when the number was 1,358. Of the total cases, 5,61,732 people have recovered and there are 22,486 active cases in the city at present. The positivity of COVID-19 cases on Monday was 3.15%, lesser than the average daily positivity in November, which was 11.65%. The overall positivity till now was 8.74%, the government bulletin also said. Out of the total 18,813 beds available for COVID-19 treatment in the city, 67.9% were vacant, according to the bulletin. About 68.3% of ICU beds with ventilators for COVID-19 treatment in the city were occupied by Monday night and 50.1% of ICU beds without ventilators were full, as per Delhi government data. In November, there were days when more than 50% of beds were occupied and about 90% of ICU beds with ventilators were full. There were 6,292 containment zones in the city as on Monday. The Delhi government had significantly ramped up testing in the past few weeks, with the count on several times crossing the 60,000-mark.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/delhi-sees-lowest-daily-new-cases-in-3-months/article33275226.ece
08 December 2020||New Delhi,||Virus treatment: HC directs govt. to follow CPCB norms for waste disposal||The Delhi High Court on Monday said it expects the city government to scrupulously follow the guidelines issued by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) for handling and disposal of waste generated during diagnosis and treatment of COVID-19 patients. A Bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan’s observation came after the Delhi government said protocols are in place for handling and disposal of COVID-19 test kits and swabs and action would be taken against those not following the same. The Delhi government had also placed on record the ‘Guidelines for Handling, Treatment, and Disposal of Waste Generated during Treatment/Diagnosis/Quarantine of COVID-19 Patients’, issued by the CPCB in July. Taking note of the submission, the High Court disposed of the petition filed by a lawyer alleging improper disposal of used swabs from Rapid Antigen testing for COVID-19 at the office of the District Magistrate (South-East Delhi) at Lajpat Nagar. Mr. Mehta said that when he had complained about the risk of widespread infection and the irregularity behind disposing off the swabs, the doctor concerned at the counter said that the swabs are of negative patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/virus-treatment-hc-directs-govt-to-follow-cpcb-norms-for-waste-disposal/article33275224.ece
08 December 2020||New Delhi,||‘Treat plea on regulation of powers as representation’||The Delhi High Court on Monday directed authorities to treat as representation a petition seeking regulation of powers delegated to civil defence volunteers for ensuring compliance with COVID-19 norms in Delhi. A Bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan asked the authorities take a decision on the plea in accordance with law, rules, regulations and government policy. The petition by advocate Amrita Dhawan claimed that civil defence volunteers were “misusing” the “unbridled” powers given to them under the Delhi Epidemic Diseases (Management of COVID-19) Regulations 2020. Her plea also sought direction to prevent the civil defence volunteer from wearing uniforms similar to that of the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/treat-plea-on-regulation-of-powers-as-representation/article33275223.ece
08 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Look into plea alleging garbage burning and sewage discharge into lake’||The National Green Tribunal has directed the Delhi Development Authority to look into a plea alleging burning of garbage and discharge of untreated sewage into a lake in East Delhi. It directed DDA Vice-Chairman to ensure that action is taken to curb pollution in the Sanjay Lake park.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/look-into-plea-alleging-garbage-burning-and-sewage-discharge-into-lake/article33275225.ece
08 December 2020||Panaji,||Goa Opposition parties to support bandh||Opposition parties in Goa have extended their support to the Tuesday’s ‘Bharat Bandh’ call given by farmers protesting the Centre’s new agri-marketing laws. However, Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant told reporters on Monday that there would be no impact of the bandh in the coastal State. Goa BJP president Sadanand Tanavade said people were convinced about the Union government’s intentions behind the new farm laws and “there will be no response to the bandh”. NCP’s Goa unit chief Jose Philip DSouza said his party workers would hold demonstrations at various places on Tuesday. “We are fully supporting the cause of the farmers. We stand by them,” he said. State Congress chief Girish Chodankar said his party had also extended full support to the bandh and would be participating in demonstrations planned by various unions. All India Trade Union Congress’ Goa general secretary Suhas Naik said they would be holding a protest at the Azad Maidan on Tuesday against the “anti-farmer” policies of the Central government. A spokesperson of the Aam Aadmi Party’s Goa unit said their party had also extended support to the bandh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/goa-opposition-parties-to-support-bandh/article33275457.ece
08 December 2020||Pune,||Maharashtra’s active cases drop to 75,767||The heartening trend of recoveries exceeding fresh cases continued with as many as 7,345 patients being discharged across Maharashtra on Monday while just 3,075 COVID-19 cases were reported. The total case tally now stands at 18,55,341 with the number of active cases dipping further to 75,767. The cumulative recoveries have reached 17,30,715 with the State’s recovery rate rising incrementally to 93.28%. As many as 40 deaths were reported, taking the fatality toll to 47,774. The low case surge must, however, be viewed in the context of the lower number of samples tested — just over 45,000 as compared with a daily average of over 70,000. “Of a total 1,13,18,721 laboratory samples tested thus far, 18,55,341 (case positivity rate of 16.39%) have returned positive with over 45,000 samples being tested in the last 24 hours,” State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate said, adding that the State’s case fatality rate marginally decreased to 2.57%. Pune district reported more than 450 new cases to take its total tally to 3,58,369 while three deaths saw its toll reach 7,574. As per the district administration figures, the active case figure stands at 10,927 while its recovery rate has remained constant at 94.44%. Mumbai city reported 813 new cases to take its total tally to 2,86,597 of whom 12,477 are active. As many as 11 fatalities saw the city’s death toll rise to 10,907. Nagpur district in Vidarbha reported 259 new cases, taking the district’s total tally to 1,16,865 of whom 4,341 are currently active. Four deaths took the toll to 3,045. In western Maharashtra, Satara reported three deaths, pushing its death toll to 1,695. As many as 129 fresh cases saw the total tally rise to 53,429 of whom 1,919 are active. Neighbouring Sangli reported 42 cases and no deaths as the district’s reported cases reached 48,960 of whom just 361 are active. Its death toll stands at 1,724. Kolhapur reported just 21 cases and no deaths as well, as its total case tally reached 48,665 of whom a mere 90 are active. The death toll remained constant at 1,654. In north Maharashtra, Nashik district reported nearly 200 cases and three deaths as its total tally touched 1,07,916 of whom 2,390 are active. Its death toll stands at 1,747.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/maharashtras-active-cases-drop-to-75767/article33275465.ece
08 December 2020||Thane,||47 accused in Palghar lynching case get bail||A Thane court on Monday granted bail to 47 people arrested in the Palghar mob lynching case. District Judge P.P. Jadhav ordered that the accused be released on a surety of Rs. 15,000 each. Last month, the court granted bail to 58 accused in the case. Nearly 200 people have so far been arrested in connection with the case. Advocates Amrut Adhikari and Atul Patil, who appeared for the applicants, submitted in the court that their clients had no role in the incident and the police arrested them on mere suspicion. On April 16, a mob lynched two sadhus — Chikne Maharaj Kalpavrukshagiri (70) and Sushilgiri Maharaj (35) — and their driver Nilesh Telgade (30) at Gadchinchale in Maharashtra’s Palghar district, located about 140km north of Mumbai. While the two monks were heading for Gujarat in a car to attend a funeral, the mob suspected that they were child-lifters. The CID (crime) of the Maharashtra Police has filed a charge sheet in the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/47-accused-in-palghar-lynching-case-get-bail/article33275466.ece
08 December 2020||Thane,||Fire at COVID-19 hospital in Thane; no casualty||A fire broke out at a coronavirus (COVID-19) hospital at Ulhasnagar in Maharashtra’s Thane district, but there was no casualty, a police official said on Monday. The blaze erupted around 9 p.m. on Sunday at the private hospital in Ulhasnagar township, located around 25 km from the district headquarters, due to a short circuit in an air-conditioning unit, the official said. Firemen from a local fire station rushed to the spot and doused the blaze within an hour. Thick smoke engulfed the hospital premises after the fire and around 20 patients were shifted to other medical facilities, he said. “No one was injured,” the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/fire-at-covid-19-hospital-in-thane-no-casualty/article33275467.ece
08 December 2020||Stockholm,||U.S., China dominate arms market: report||U.S. and Chinese companies dominated the global arms market in 2019, while West Asia made its first appearance among the 25 biggest weapons manufacturers, a report by the SIPRI research institute said on Monday. The U.S. arms industry accounted for 61% of sales by the world’s “Top 25” manufacturers last year, ahead of China’s 15.7%, according to the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute. Total sales by the “Top 25” rose by 8.5% to $361 billion, or 50 times the annual budget of the UN’s peacekeeping operations. Top sellers Six U..S companies and three Chinese firms were in the top 10, rounded out by Britain’s BAE Systems in seventh spot. “China and the United States are the two biggest states in terms of global arms spending, with companies cut to size,” Lucie Beraud-Sudreau, director of SIPRI’s arms and military expenditure programme, told AFP. The U.S. has dominated the market for decades, but for China — whose companies’ sales rose by almost 5% in 2019 — “this increase corresponds to the implementation of reforms to modernise the People’s Liberation Army underway since 2015,” she said. U.S. companies Lockheed Martin, Boeing, Northrop Grumman, Raytheon and General Dynamics clinched the top five spots, while China’s AVIC, CETC and Norinco held spots six, eight and nine. U.S. group L3Harris Technologies was in 10th place. “Europe remains a bit dispersed... but if you combine the European companies together you could have European companies the same size” as U.S. and Chinese manufacturers, Ms. Beraud-Sudreau noted. Airbus (European, 13th in the ranking) and Thales (French, 14th) can meanwhile boast of having the strongest international presence — each is represented in 24 countries, ahead of U.S. Boeing. West Asian surprise “European companies are more internationalised” than others, Ms. Beraud-Sudreau said. For the first time, a company from the West Asia made it into the “Top 25”: EDGE, of the United Arab Emirates, was formed by the consolidation of some 25 defence entities in 2019. In 22nd spot, EDGE “is a good illustration of how the combination of high national demand for military products and services with a desire to become less dependent on foreign suppliers is driving the growth of arms companies in the Middle East,” SIPRI researcher Pieter Wezeman said in the report. SIPRI also noted that French group Dassault had shot up from 38th to 17th place, boosted by exports of its Rafale fighter jets in 2019. Meanwhile, two Russian companies were also in the “Top 25”, Almaz-Antey in 15th spot and United Shipbuilding in 25th.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-china-dominate-arms-market-report/article33274940.ece
08 December 2020||New York,||Bob Dylan sells his entire catalogue to Universal Music||Universal Music has bought the entire back catalogue of Bob Dylan’s songs, it announced on Monday, in a purported nine-figure deal for one of the most prized rights’ collections in music history. The deal covers more than 600 song copyrights spanning 60 years, including Blowin’ In The Wind, The Times They Are a-Changin , Like A Rolling Stone , Lay Lady Lay and Forever Young , Universal Music said in a statement. The music company gave no financial details of the purchase but theFinancial Timesreported that it was a “nine-figure deal”. The New York Times estimated the price at more than $300 million. “The deal is the most significant music publishing agreement this century and one of the most important of all time,” Universal Music said in its statement. The value of owning music rights has soared in recent years with the surge in popularity of streaming sites such as Spotify.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/bob-dylan-sells-his-entire-catalogue-to-universal-music/article33274942.ece
08 December 2020||December 08 2020 00:00 IST,||China pushes false theories about virus||The mild-mannered German scientist never anticipated becoming a Chinese propaganda star. But Alexander Kekulé, director of the Institute for Biosecurity Research in Halle, Germany, has been all over the state-run media in China in recent days. News outlets have taken Mr. Kekulé’s research out of context to suggest that Italy, not China, is where the coronavirus pandemic began. Photos of him have appeared on Chinese news sites under headlines reading, “China is innocent!” Mr. Kekulé, who has repeatedly said that he believes the virus first emerged in China, was startled. “This is pure propaganda,” he said. Facing global anger over their initial mishandling of the outbreak, Chinese authorities are now trying to rewrite the narrative of the pandemic by pushing theories that the virus originated outside China. In recent days, Chinese officials have said that packaged food from overseas might have initially brought the virus to China. Scientists have released a paper positing that the pandemic could have started in India. The state news media has published false stories misrepresenting foreign experts, including Mr. Kekulé and officials at the WHO, as having said the virus came from elsewhere. The campaign seems to reflect anxiety within the ruling party about the continuing damage to China’s reputation brought by the virus.NY Times||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/china-pushes-false-theories-about-virus/article33274936.ece
08 December 2020||Caracas,||Maduro wins legislature polls boycotted by Opposition||President Nicolas Maduro seized total control of Venezuela’s political institutions on Sunday with a sweeping victory in legislative elections that were boycotted by the main Opposition parties. Mr. Maduro and his left-wing allies had 67.7% of the vote with over 80% of ballots counted, while the Opposition bloc which broke the boycott had 18%, National Electoral Council president Indira Alfonzo said. Turnout was low with just 31% of the country’s 20 million electorate voting. Sunday’s predictable triumph gives Mr. Maduro’s ruling Socialist Party control of an expanded 227-seat National Assembly, the only official body held by the opposition. It further weakened U.S.-backed Opposition leader Juan Guaido, who led the boycott after calling the vote “a fraud”. “Happy morning of victory!” Mr. Maduro celebrated. “We have a new National Assembly, we have had a tremendous and gigantic victory.” U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo denounced the polls as “a fraud and a sham” engineered by Mr. Maduro. “The results announced by the illegitimate Maduro regime will not reflect the will of the Venezuelan people,” wrote Mr.Pompeo on Twitter. Brazilian Foreign Minister Ernesto Araujo tweeted that the vote was an “electoral farce” and an attempt by the Maduro “dictatorship” to legitimize its rule. ‘Results not recognised’ Canada and the Organisation of American States said they would not recognise the result. “Canada will always stand with the people of Venezuela in their fight to restore democracy,” Foreign Minister Francois-Philippe Champagne said. Washington, Mr. Guaido’s main ally, is leading pressure to oust Mr. Maduro with economic sanctions, including an oil embargo in force since April 2019.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/maduro-wins-legislature-polls-boycotted-by-opposition/article33274934.ece
08 December 2020||WASHINGTON,||Biden picks California AG as first Latino Health Secretary||President-elect Joe Biden has picked California Attorney General Xavier Becerra to be his health secretary, putting a defender of the Affordable Care Act in a leading role to oversee his administration’s coronavirus response. Separately, Mr. Biden picked a Harvard infectious disease expert, Dr. Rochelle Walensky, to head the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). And he announced a new role for Dr. Anthony Fauci, the government’s top infectious disease expert. If confirmed by the Senate, Mr. Becerra, will be the first Latino to head the Department of Health and Human Services, a $1 trillion-plus agency with 80,000 employees and a portfolio that includes drugs and vaccines, leading-edge research and health insurance programmes covering more than 130 million Americans. Mr. Biden’s selection of Mr. Becerra and Ms. Walensky was announced on Monday in a press release from the transition office. Mr. Biden also announced other top members of his health care team, though some posts remain unfilled. Mr. Becerra, as the State of California’s top lawyer, has led the coalition of Democratic states defending “Obamacare” from the Trump administration’s latest effort to overturn it, a legal case awaiting a Supreme Court decision next year. Mr. Becerra was involved in steering the Obama health law through Congress in 2009 and 2010.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/biden-picks-california-ag-as-first-latino-health-secretary/article33274932.ece
08 December 2020||Peshawar,||Pak. hospital suspends staff as oxygen shortage kills patients||Seven workers at a Pakistan hospital who left scores of COVID-19 patients without sufficient oxygen for hours have been suspended after several of their charges died, authorities said. Five patients in the COVID-19 isolation ward and one in the intensive care unit at the government-run hospital in Peshawar died due to the delay in sourcing oxygen, a preliminary report said late on Sunday. The chronic oxygen deficiency “went unnoticed, unsupervised and unchecked,” the report said, adding that no backup oxygen supply had been put in place. The hospital director was among those suspended with immediate effect. Taimur Saleem Jhagra, a provincial Health Minister, told AFP that the authorities would hold a second detailed inquiry over the next five days. “The hospital was low on oxygen from around 8 p.m. in the evening, how come they couldn't manage to solve the issue until after 12 p.m.?” Mr. Jhagra said. “Some of the staff were off, some were absent and there wasn't any alternate arrangements, even the emergency squad was not available,” he added. Hospital spokesman Farhad Khan told AFP on Sunday that a disruption in oxygen supplies affected some 200 people, including nearly 100 with coronavirus. Pakistan has reported more than 4,00,000 cases of coronavirus — including over 8,000 deaths — since it arrived in late February. Intensive care units in hospitals across the country are now almost full, with provincial governments struggling to deal with the soaring caseload.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/pak-hospital-suspends-staff-as-oxygen-shortage-kills-patients/article33274937.ece
08 December 2020||WASHINGTON,||Giuliani in hospital after testing positive for virus||President Donald Trump says his personal attorney Rudy Giuliani has tested positive for the coronavirus, making him the latest in Trump’s inner circle to contract the disease that is now surging across the U.S. Mr. Giuliani was exhibiting some symptoms and was admitted on Sunday to Georgetown University Medical Center in Washington, according to a person familiar with the matter. The 76-year-old former New York Mayor has travelled extensively to battleground States in an effort to help Mr. Trump subvert his election loss to Joe Biden. On numerous occasions, he has met with officials without wearing a mask. Mr. Trump, who announced Mr. Giuliani’s positive test in a Sunday afternoon tweet, wished him a speedy recovery. "Get better soon Rudy, we will carry on!!!” Mr. Trump wrote. Mr. Giuliani did not immediately respond to a request for comment, but on Sunday evening he retweeted Mr. Trump’s announcement of his diagnosis. He also tweeted thanks to a conservative writer who had said he was praying for Mr. Giuliani. The Trump campaign said in a statement that Mr. Giuliani tested negative twice before his visits to Arizona, Michigan and Georgia.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/giuliani-in-hospital-after-testing-positive-for-virus/article33274938.ece
08 December 2020||December 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Supreme, yet accessible||When caught in samsara one easily is tempted to willingly accept the euphoria created by the worldly attractions. With such a mind-set, where is the possibility of developing bhakti or engaging in meditation? Arjuna confesses that practice of meditation is a herculean task considering the fickle nature of the human mind. So how can the ordinary erring jivatmas ever dream of seeking one whom the Vedas and the sastras proclaim to be the Highest Paramatma? There is none equal to Him or higher than Him. Knowing that the path is arduous, the Lord is so compassionate that He states in the Gita that He is ready to grant true jnana to the sincere seeker, pointed out Aasuri Sri Madhavachariar in a discourse. “Out of my compassion and grace, I sit on the innermost being of those devotees and with the shining lamp of enlightenment drive away the darkness caused by ignorance.” This is exemplified in the experience of the azhwars and acharyas who feel His presence in their hearts. Nammazhwar cries out in ecstasy that the Lord whose abode is in Vaikunta has chosen to live in his heart. But to enable all to seek Him easily, He comes down to the earth and in His Vibhava avatars reveals His Saulabhya when He dwells as one among human beings. But there is no loss to His Paratva. Azhwar's hymns lead us to savour the extraordinary experience of His Vibhava appearances as Rama, Krishna, Vamana, Narasimha, and so on. Likewise, Vedanta Desika in the Yadavabhyudaya, is astonished that as child Krishna He acts as a toddler and allows the most fortunate Yasodha the rarest of privileges, to teach Him to walk. Is not this child the same Vamana who established His Paratva by transforming Himself into Trivikrama to measure the entire prapancham with His feet?||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/supreme-yet-accessible/article33274925.ece
08 December 2020||Addis Ababa,||Addis Ababa, Dec 7, 2020 (AFP) -||Ethiopian Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed on Monday said efforts were on to restore order in Tigray, where fighting and lawlessness were hindering aid delivery to desperate civilians. Mr. Abiy, the winner of last year’s Nobel Peace Prize, on November 28 declared victory in Tigray after the army captured Mekele, the regional capital, following nearly a month of bloody conflict against the Tigray People’s Liberation Front.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/addis-ababa-dec-7-2020-afp/article33274929.ece
08 December 2020||December 08 2020 00:00 IST,||A ‘duet’ for India’s urban women||The COVID-19 crisis has drawn attention to the insecurities that haunt the lives of the urban poor. Generally, they are less insecure than the rural poor, partly because fallback work is easier to find in urban areas — if only pulling a rickshaw or selling snacks. Still, the urban poor are exposed to serious contingencies, both individual (such as illness and underemployment) and collective (lockdowns, floods, cyclones, financial crises and so on). There is, thus, a need for better social protection in urban areas. There are not many options. Universalising the Public Distribution System in urban slums would be a step forward (and it can be done under the National Food Security Act), but foodgrain rations do not take people very far. Employment-based support is one way of doing more. It has two major advantages: self-targeting, and the possibility of generating valuable assets or services. A simple proposal There has been much discussion, in recent months, of a possible urban employment guarantee act. The nuts and bolts of the act, however, are not so clear, and we have little experience of relief work in urban areas. Further, it takes some optimism to expect a national urban employment guarantee act to materialise in the current political climate. A stepping stone would help. Some time ago I had proposed an urban employment scheme called Decentralised Urban Employment and Training (DUET). Briefly, it would work as follows (https://bit.ly/33N41zy). The government, State or Union, would issue “job stamps”, each standing for one day of work at the minimum wage. The job stamps would be liberally distributed to approved public institutions such as universities, hostels, schools, hospitals, health centres, museums, libraries, shelters, jails, offices, departments, railway stations, transport corporations, public-sector enterprises, neighbourhood associations and urban local bodies. These institutions would be free to use the stamps to hire labour for odd jobs and small projects that do not fit easily within their existing budgets and systems. Wages, paid by the government, would go directly to the workers’ accounts against job stamps certified by the employer. To avoid collusion, an independent placement agency would take charge of assigning workers to employers. This approach would have various advantages: activating a multiplicity of potential employers, avoiding the need for special staff, facilitating productive work, among others. It would also ensure that workers have a secure entitlement to minimum wages, and possibly other benefits. There is no dearth of possible DUET jobs. Many possibilities are mentioned in Azim Premji University’s blueprint for an urban employment guarantee act (https://bit.ly/3lSCUsU). Further, many States have a chronic problem of dismal maintenance of public premises — DUET could provide a first line of defence against it. Some projects may require a modest provision for material expenditure, but that seems doable. To work well, DUET would have to include some skilled workers (masons, carpenters, electricians and such). That would widen the range of possible jobs. It would also help to impart a training component in the scheme — workers could learn skills “on the job”, as they work alongside skilled workers. Roping in skilled workers, however, will take some effort: they tend to get a fair amount of work in urban areas, and to earn relatively good wages. Aside from prompting a lot of useful and mostly enthusiastic feedback when it was placed in the public domain, the DUET proposal was the subject of a recent symposium by ‘Ideas for India’ (https://bit.ly/3qycBMh), where many eminent economists shared valuable thoughts and doubts. I am told that the Left Democratic Front in Kerala has included it in its election manifesto for the forthcoming local elections. Of course, many practical issues are likely to arise in the design of the scheme. But the idea seems worth pursuing at least.  Women first Here is a variant of DUET that merits special consideration — how about giving priority to women workers? I am not thinking of a minimum quota for women, like the one-third quota under the National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (NREGA), but of an absolute priority: as long as women workers are available, they get all the work. In fact, women could also run the placement agencies, or the entire programme for that matter. To facilitate women’s involvement, most of the work could be organised on a part-time basis, say four hours a day. A part-time employment option would be attractive for many poor women in urban areas. Full-time employment tends to be very difficult for them, especially if they have young children. Wage employment for a few hours a day would be much easier to manage. It would give them some economic independence and bargaining power within the family, and help them to acquire new skills. Remember, the economic dependence of women on men is one of the prime roots of gender inequality and female oppression in India. Giving priority to women would have two further merits. First, it would reinforce the self-targeting feature of DUET, because women in relatively well-off households are unlikely to go (or be allowed to go) for casual labour at the minimum wage. Second, it would promote women’s general participation in the labour force. India has one of the lowest rates of female workforce participation in the world. According to National Sample Survey data for 2019, only 20% of urban women in the age group of 15-59 years spend time in “employment and related activities” on an average day. This is a loss not only for women, who live at the mercy of men, but also for society as a whole, insofar as it stifles the productive and creative potential of almost half of the adult population. I would add, on a more tentative note, that giving priority to women (and putting them in charge) may help to prevent corruption. If wages are paid directly to the workers’ accounts, siphoning DUET funds off would require collusion with workers, real or dummy. Women may be more reluctant than men to participate in a scam, if only out of fear. Try it out A moot question remains: will the public institutions concerned make active use of the job stamps? Think of the head of a university department who sees that the walls need white-washing. It would not take much initiative for her to reach for the job stamps and get the job done. Still, it is easier to do nothing. This is where there is a big difference between DUET and the “service voucher” schemes that have proved so popular in some European countries. The service vouchers are much like job stamps, except that they are used by households instead of public institutions, for the purpose of securing domestic services such as cooking and cleaning. The service vouchers are not free, but they are highly subsidised, and households have an incentive to use them since that is a way of buying domestic services very cheap. In the DUET scheme, the use of job stamps relies on a sense of responsibility among the heads of public institutions, not their self-interest. It is, thus, not easy to guess how intensively job stamps will be used. The best way to find out is to give the scheme a chance. As it happens, that can easily be done, by way of a pilot scheme in select districts or even municipalities. There is nothing to lose: if DUET does not work, we shall learn from it at least. Jean Drèze is Visiting Professor at the Department of Economics, Ranchi University||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-duet-for-indias-urban-women/article33274912.ece
08 December 2020||December 08 2020 00:00 IST,||The politician in waiting||After years of suspense, veteran actor and superstar Rajinikanth has finally announced that he is going to launch his own political party in January 2021, months ahead of the Assembly election in Tamil Nadu. Just as in the movies, it looks like Mr. Rajinikanth had been waiting for a good script for his entry into politics. Timing is most important in politics. The time did seem right three years ago when he announced on December 31, 2017 that he would start a party in time and would contest all 234 constituencies in the State. That was soon after the charismatic and formidable leader of the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK), Jayalalithaa, had died, and when the leader of the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK), Karunanidhi, was ailing, thus creating a vacuum in the political landscape of the State. Mr. Rajinikanth said his politics would be “spiritual” and that “the time had come” for him to make a mark as “democracy had undergone severe decay”. He promised to provide a “clean, corruption-free government, a kind of politics that is devoid of influences of caste and religion”. That, he said, was his goal and wish. A script gathering dust But three years went by and he continued to deliberate his next move, even as a change of an eon has taken place. The 2019 Lok Sabha election in Tamil Nadu was a game changer. It was the first major election in a long time that was not led by Karunanidhi and Jayalalithaa. The United Progressive Alliance, led by the DMK, won 38 out of 39 seats. This clearly showed that Karunanidhi’s son, M.K. Stalin, had come into his own, emerging as a strong regional leader who had stopped the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) juggernaut from setting foot in Tamil Nadu. His victory seemed to prove that the Hindi-Hindutva BJP would not be kosher in Tamil Nadu. The anti-BJP feeling was also clear in the by-elections to 22 Assembly constituencies that were held around the same time. That was a neck and neck race between the DMK and the AIADMK. It showed that in an election in Tamil Nadu, the fight continued to be between the two well-structured, cadre-based Dravidian parties even after the demise of their respective leaders. The leaders had died, but their vote banks remained intact. Mr. Stalin had proved that he could pull in votes on his own, and AIADMK Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami regained lost ground surmounting some initial struggles. In all this, Mr. Rajinikanth’s script for a grand entry gathered dust. He told the media in March this year that the onus was on the people to show a “resurgence”, like they did in 1967 when the DMK overthrew the Congress. It appeared that he had come to realise that it is not possible for him to win an election banking on his fan base that was not homogeneous in nature. They were unlike M.G. Ramachandran’s fan clubs who were bound by an ideology. He said he did not want to be Chief Minister, he wanted to limit the number of party posts, and bring the youth into politics. He wanted this message to be disseminated by his fans to every nook and corner of the State. When there is a resurgence, I will come, he said. He added there was no use in him being a “vote splitter”. But there is no sign of a “resurgence” even now. So, why did he decide to make an entry at this juncture? His timing is especially interesting as only at the end of October, Mr. Rajinikanth had said that his doctors had forbade him from entering the electoral fray given his health issues. How did things change so quickly, then? Mr. Rajinikanth was emotional. “If I win, it is the people’s victory. If I fail, it is the people’s loss,” he said. He said that he would be happy to give his life for the people of Tamil Nadu. His followers who had said just sometime ago that the health of ‘Thalaivar’ (leader) was more important than power were jubilant that he had changed his mind. A tough fight Mr. Rajinikanth’s decision will certainly upset the calculations of the various political parties in the State. There does exist a section that wants a change from the two dominant parties. How will the contest be? Mr. Rajinikanth has never shied away from showing his admiration for Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah. He has often voiced support for the decisions of the BJP government at the Centre that were considered controversial in Tamil Nadu. He was a strong votary of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act of 2019, but hit out at the Centre after the riots in Delhi. He complimented the Central government for “deftly” handling the Kashmir issue. Leaders of the BJP, a party that is in an alliance with the AIADMK, have rushed forward to congratulate him. But the actor knows well that he will be a loser in Tamil Nadu if he aligns with the BJP. It is going to be a tough fight in the State now. The fear of Mr. Rajinikanth’s entry splitting votes is indeed a worry for the AIADMK. Disgruntled members of the party may join him. But he may cut into the DMK’s votes even more, including its traditional minority vote share. Some political analysts feel that this is exactly what the BJP desires. While the national party is desperate to enter Tamil Nadu, it is more keen that the DMK should not win. All attempts of a third force in the State have ended in failure so far. Mr. Rajinikanth had said in March that he would not be the chief ministerial candidate. This may please the Tamil nationalists, but how will his fans respond to this? A force to reckon with For more than 50 years, Tamil Nadu has seen and acknowledged Dravidian politics that is based on the philosophy of social justice and equality. Surveys have shown that Tamil Nadu has been far ahead of other States in many aspects of governance. Tamil pride is something that is ingrained in the soul of the State. Regardless of the question of whether Mr. Rajinikanth fits into this scheme of things, it is amazing how he has become a force to reckon with in Tamil Nadu politics just by making an announcement. Why should I come as a mere vote splitter he had asked in March. An honest introspection, still valid. Vaasanthi is a journalist and the author of ‘Amma: Jayalalithaa’s journey from movie star to political queen’, ‘The Lone Empress: A Portrait of Jayalalithaa’ and Karunanidhi: The Definitive Biography||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-politician-in-waiting/article33274923.ece
08 December 2020||December 08 2020 00:00 IST,||The ground has fallen out from beneath the farmer’s feet||Amidst the novel coronavirus pandemic, Indian farmers have marched their way to New Delhi. The reason behind the protest is a request to repeal the recently passed Farmers’ (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill. Akin to stock trading All three of these laws are palpable attempts to turn the activity of buying and selling farm produce into a form of stock exchange trade. However, the secret to successful farming has been in the handiwork of toil, rather than the ability to operate computers and nit-pick along contractual text, both of which the Farm Acts seem to impute into the life of a farmer. First, the Acts have been passed by the Centre. However, agriculture remains a matter under the purview of the State List. The Centre has no jurisdiction to rule over agriculture even under the Concurrent List. And so, quite clearly there is an attempt to usurp powers explicitly given to States under Entries 14, 18, 46, 28 of the State List, by the Centre. These Acts lack a legal framework in the way that they came into existence. Additionally the Acts deprive States of their revenue via any cess or levy. Therefore, these Acts are a challenge to the separation of powers which functions as the backbone to a democracy. More costs possible Second, in the way that the Acts change all kinds of farming trade into digital contractual terms reveals how there is an attempt at selling the farmer’s produce in a language that the farmer himself does not know. This lack of skill, knowledge and expertise will provoke farmers into hiring middlemen, thereby, increasing the operational cost for the farmer. Additionally, when such contracts are signed with multinational companies, farmers shall either be forced into paying hefty fees to lawyers to be able to dissect such contracts for them, or, in the alternative, open the floodgates of their exploitation at any time by such companies. Legally, all of this interferes with the freedom of a farmer to carry out his own trade under Article 19(1)(f). By imposing such fetters in the way that the farmer earns his livelihood, there is a threat under Article 21 as well. This will also deny a decent standard of living by interfering in the way that such a ‘living’ is earned by the farmer, impinging on Article 43 of the Directive Principles of State Policy. Gaps in definitions Third, there are two particularly problematic definitions within the Acts. When these Acts define the term, “farmer”, they exclude the cropper, labourer, tiller, etc. The impact of this is that certain persons involved in producing crop are systemically excluded from the purview of the Act. This shall in turn, hinder, any rights that they might have gained access to via the Acts. While defining a “farming agreement,” rather than bestowing power to the farmer, a sponsor has the power to refuse the yield. The sponsor has such power in the absence of any necessity on his part to give reasons to the farmer behind such refusal. This sponsor is also in-charge for checking legal compliance. This means that all legal blind-turns are open to legitimate exploitation by such sponsors. Fourth, the Acts mandate trade to occur when the produce is of a “mutually acceptable quality, grade and standard.” The question here is, in the battle to secure “mutual acceptance”, what extent of exploitation are we willing to overlook — from environmental to labour to the farmer’s own. In the attempt to secure produce of a “mutually acceptable quality”, there is every possibility that the farmer might be pressured into over-using his land either by excess plantation or by excessive use of chemicals, thus making it vulnerable to becoming barren. Moreover, the quality check in such cases is to be done by a “third party”. This power has been given to a third party without any safeguards against such parties’ biases or prejudices. The unashamed misuse of the farmer and his resource to merely flood the coffers of a random multi-national company is visible at a bare perusal of such a provision in the Acts. Fifth, the Acts in their dispute resolution provisions, fail to lay down who can represent the parties involved in such a dispute. The Act goes on to then to overburden an already overworked Sub-Divisional Magistrate in the absence of such a conciliation process elucidated in the farming agreement. No right to appeal And, finally, the most inhumane of all provisions are those that take away the right of appeal from a farmer. The state exercising its power through multiple bureaucrats seems to have elevated itself to the status of god himself, whose decisions are immune from challenge. There is a glaring absence of any power being given to the farmer in the event that the decision delivered by the above authority is biased, a product of corruption, prejudiced or simply a manifestation of the said authority’s bad mood. We must commemorate the access to justice accorded by the Constitution under Articles 14 and 21, at this juncture.  Apart from this, the Acts use multiple subjective terms such as “extraordinary circumstances” and “extraordinary price rise”. Even words such as “horticultural produce” and “non-perishable agricultural foodstuffs” are used so callously that they open up a contract to multiple disputes over interpretation. Clearly the Acts seem to defy the safeguards that the makers of the Constitution created it to stand for. K.T.S. Tulsi is Senior Advocate and Member of Parliament, Rajya Sabha. Tanessa Puri is an Associate at the Chambers of K.T.S. Tulsi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-ground-has-fallen-out-from-beneath-the-farmers-feet/article33274915.ece
08 December 2020||December 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Predicting protein structures||It takes a lot to make a splash in the world of science when people are excited about the discovery of vaccines against SARS-CoV-2. The success of Artificial Intelligence (AI) in reliable and consistent predictions of structures of proteins with great accuracy is one such splash. The AI-based program, AlphaFold2, from the company DeepMind, has stunned the world by accurately and quickly predicting the structure of proteins, starting from the sequences of amino acids that constitute them. Proteins are ubiquitous in all organisms. By comparing and analysing protein structures, it is possible to get ideas about biological evolution, diseases, defence mechanisms, etc. This explains the human quest for finding the structures of proteins. In 1972, Christian B. Anfinsen won the Nobel Prize in Chemistry for his experiments that showed that a protein could fold into its structure based on the information contained in the sequence of amino acids. Since then, scientists around the world have been trying to computationally predict protein structures. Progress Only about 60 years ago, Max Perutz and others experimentally determined the first protein structures of myoglobin and haemoglobin. They did this through a method called X-ray crystallography that uses protein crystals and X-rays. Knowing the structure of haemoglobin helped people understand how it is able to perform its function of transporting oxygen from the lungs to the cells in the body. It also showed how changing a single amino acid can cause sickle cell anaemia. Just as knowing the shape of the human nose or the crow’s beak helps understand its function, knowing a protein structure helps recognise how it functions and how a defect may lead to malfunctioning. Proteins, along with nucleic acid sequences that make a genome, form the basis of all organisms. Technology has advanced so much that it is routine and inexpensive to sequence genomes. The sequences of amino acids that form the proteins are encoded in genes which are part of the genome. Therefore, translating and getting the sequences of proteins is easy. But getting the three-dimensional structures of proteins was so far possible only experimentally through time-consuming and expensive techniques of X-ray crystallography, nuclear magnetic resonance and cryo-electron microscopy. India has had a legacy of being a top player in the field of protein structural work, both experimental and computational. The Ramachandran Plot devised nearly 60 years ago by G.N. Ramachandran and others from the University of Madras is used even today the world over to validate protein structures. In 1994, John Moult and his colleagues started an exercise, to bring fun and rigour into structure prediction, called Critical Assessment of Protein Structure Prediction (CASP). Since then, this has been conducted every two years. In this, scientists who have experimentally determined protein structures voluntarily do not submit the structure to the public database but make available the protein sequence for a structure prediction challenge. That way, the predicted structures could be compared to the experimentally determined ones without any bias in prediction. CASP divided the targets into categories based on the difficulty level. The effort also resulted in devising a quantitative measure called Global Distance Test (GDT) which would be 100 when the predicted and the experimental matched perfectly and zero if there was no match at all. Enter AI In the beginning rounds, the median scores across all categories were around 20 with slow progress being seen across the years. In 2018, a new player called AlphaFold from DeepMind joined the game breathing ‘deep learning’ AI techniques into the prediction algorithm. It did well with a modest score of around 60 across categories. With the subsequent publication of their method, this year saw a large number of the participants including the deep learning procedures in their algorithms at different stages. But DeepMind’s AlphaFold team led by Demis Hassabis and John Jumper changed tack and switched to ‘attention-based’ deep learning which has been successful in image and speech recognition. This method used in AlphaFold2 is analogous to how people tend to solve jigsaw puzzles paying attention to the pieces that fit locally while keeping the whole picture in mind. It was a remarkable success. The median score was at the level of around 90 — something never reached before. This, according to John Moult, meant that the problem of structure prediction for compact single module proteins is essentially solved. Once the details of the method are spelt out in a publication, more scientists will take this up to predict even structures of protein complexes that form molecular machines in cells. S. Krishnaswamy, a structural biologist and protein crystallographer, is visiting professor at The Institute of Mathematical Sciences, Chennai||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/predicting-protein-structures/article33274919.ece
08 December 2020||December 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Investing in India’s youth||With the largest youth population in the world, India faces the difficult task of educating every citizen to become a productive member of society. This goal has become harder with the pandemic: over 320 million learners have been affected and more than 5 million young people are likely to have lost their jobs. Proactive measures need to be taken to resolve this situation. Education can play a vital role in bridging this gap. India’s Right to Education Act guarantees free and compulsory education for the ages of 6 to 14 years, and is based on books and written examinations. However, evidence shows that many people develop 21st century skills on the job, or from courses that focus on practical application of skills. This indicates that vocational education can be a route for many to gain specific skillsets and knowledge which they can directly apply in their jobs. Such education formats are referred to as Technical and Vocational Education and Training (TVET). Towards a skill capital In India, the skills development ecosystem has undergone rapid changes and improvements over the last decade. The National Skill Development Policy was launched in 2009 and revamped in 2015, recognising the challenge of skilling with speed and high standards. The Skill India Mission was launched soon after, and Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced his vision for making India the “skill capital” of the world. Since then, India has laid the foundation for delivering on this vision of making quality skills development programmes available to the youth, but also faced various challenges. UNESCO’s State of the Education Report for India 2020, published this week, focuses on vocational education and training and showcases the growth of the skills development sector, along with emerging challenges. It also provides practical recommendations to ensure that policy is effectively implemented. One of the biggest challenges for expanding the reach of TVET-related courses has been the lack of aspiration and stigma attached to jobs such as carpentry and tailoring. Considerable effort, including information campaigns involving youth role models, would go a long way in improving the image of vocational education. At the same time, common myths around TVET need to be debunked. Research is now proving that TVET graduates for entry level jobs can get paid as much as university graduates, and for some jobs can even surpass them. Moreover, students from vocational streams typically take less time to find jobs as compared to university graduates. The report emphasises the need for expanding evidence-based research. High-quality research based on careful data-gathering and analytics can add value to all aspects of TVET planning and delivery but is especially useful for creating evidence behind the value of vocational education. For instance, proving the business case of apprenticeship to employers can push them to hire more apprentices. Considering that many employers are unable to find skilled candidates for jobs, promoting skills development and hiring skilled workers can make the economy stronger. An ambitious target The new National Education Policy (NEP) aims to provide vocational education to 50% of all learners by 2025. Schools are encouraged to provide students access to vocational education from Grade 6 onwards and to offer courses that are aligned to the local economies and can benefit local communities. This will be possible only if the existing skills development systems are leveraged effectively. Hence, for the vision of the NEP to be fulfilled, a robust coordination mechanism for inter-ministerial cooperation is necessary for bringing the skills development and vocational education systems together. This will not be an easy task but UNESCO, through its policy instruments, is committed to supporting the Indian government in capitalising on the country’s demographic dividend. In these difficult times, TVET is certainly a key tool to help get the economy, and people’s lives, back on track. Eric Falt is the Director, UNESCO New Delhi and UNESCO Representative to Bangladesh, Bhutan, India, Maldives, Nepal and Sri Lanka||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/investing-in-indias-youth/article33274920.ece
08 December 2020||December 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Transparency is vital||A day after Pfizer sought the Indian regulator’s nod for emergency-use authorisation for its mRNA vaccine, the Pune-based Serum Institute of India has approached the regulator for a similar nod for its vaccine, Covishield, developed by Oxford University. Unlike Pfizer, AstraZeneca, which is carrying out the phase-3 trials of the Oxford vaccine in four countries, is yet to secure a nod from any of the regulatory agencies. AstraZeneca recently gave details of the interim safety and efficacy data involving 131 COVID-19 cases in the phase-3 trials in the U.K. and Brazil. But details of the trials in India are not out yet. The unprecedented speed in taking the vaccine from the development stage to approval process in less than a year is remarkable, and perhaps necessitated by the toll the virus has taken on lives and livelihoods. But this is not without cause for concern at a time when governments are putting pressure on regulatory bodies to fast-track the entire process. Lack of transparency about vaccine safety and efficacy does no good in gaining people’s confidence and willingness to get vaccinated. While Moderna, Pfizer and AstraZeneca took the extraordinary step of publicly sharing the trial protocol, the time points at which interim analysis of phase-3 trial in India will be carried out for safety and efficacy is unclear. While the U.S. FDA has clearly spelt out at least 50% efficacy and stipulated a median follow-up duration of at least two months after completion of the full vaccination regimen to assess a vaccine’s benefit-risk profile for emergency-use approval, no such conditions have been mentioned by the Indian regulatory agency. The phase-3 trial of Covishield began on September 21 and completed the enrolment on November 12. Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced a few days ago that a vaccine would be available in the next few weeks bringing some cheer in an otherwise desolate scenario. The sooner a vaccine is available, the better it is for everyone, but pushing through an ineffective or unsafe vaccine is worse than not having one. A survey by the London-based Vaccine Confidence Project revealed that though the intent to get vaccinated was 87% in India, 34% respondents were worried about side-effects while 16% were concerned about fast-moving trials. While the Indian government is aware of vaccine hesitancy among a certain section of people, the concerns are best addressed when all stakeholders are transparent at every stage and not by merely sharing guidelines regarding vaccine safety with the States. It is important that those seeking emergency-use authorisation share the safety and efficacy data immediately.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/transparency-is-vital/article33274906.ece
08 December 2020||December 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Rebuilding from debris||U.S. President-elect Joe Biden has officially secured enough certified results across States to cross the critical threshold of 270 electors in the Electoral College. That all but guarantees that he will be the 46th President. While there is lingering but near-zero chance of incumbent President Donald Trump overturning the results through legal challenges targeting mail-in ballots, it may be safe to assume that the Electoral College will carry out, on December 14, an uncontroversial confirmation that the Biden-Harris ticket won the 2020 presidential election, and that the Biden administration will take charge after Inauguration Day next month. However, there is little doubt that seeing the bitter 2020 election campaign through to victory is but the start of what is sure to be an arduous journey for Mr. Biden, who, at 78, will have to work tirelessly toward two goals: first, to undo the damage done over four years to domestic and international institutions, alliances, and strategic goals; and second, to heal the bitter polarisation of American politics along partisan lines, a phenomenon that appeared to peak through the harsh Trump years. At the top of the domestic policy agenda will be combating the catastrophic effect of the COVID-19 pandemic in the U.S., which has recorded the most infection cases globally and the highest fatalities too. The science-driven policy that Mr. Biden has promised to follow must be expediently put into action, for everything from mask-wearing mandates to an effective vaccine distribution plan. The economy will be a close second, requiring even more stimulus packages, backed by Congress, that kick-start the flagging job market and incentivise businesses to start humming with activity again. On the international front, Mr. Biden is likely to use his first 100 days in office to explore what options there are to re-join WHO and the Paris climate change agreement. This could signal the end of the era of Trumpist isolationism on the global stage. He is also likely to train his guns on immigration reform, an area in which the Trump administration ripped a gash through the earlier paradigm of gradual adjustment to new realities. That could well include lifting Mr. Trump’s executive orders restricting the issuance of new skilled worker visas and green cards, as well as limits on entry for students at universities offering mainly online courses. Family separations at the U.S.’s southern border may halt, perhaps substituted by the Obama-years policy of “catch and release”, and the border wall that Mexico was supposed to pay for will be indefinitely shelved. Yet none of these reversals of Mr. Trump’s policies will matter if Mr. Biden does not proactively seek to build bipartisan consensus in Congress and across the country. The fact that the U.S. was riven by hateful discourse from both sides of the political spectrum throughout the 2020 campaign suggests that Mr. Biden will have to work overtime to heal the wounds inflicted on a nation that at times appears to be at war with itself.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/rebuilding-from-debris/article33274907.ece
08 December 2020||December 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Greek Plebiscite||The “Daily Mail's” Constantinople correspondent says that Lenin desiring to unify the Eastern Command has agreed to the Kemalists' proposal that Enver Pasha shall be appointed to the supreme command of the Army of the Orient [December 4, London]. According to French diplomats, yesterday's plebiscite [December 6, London] in Greece was taken in a most singular fashion. It was stated that soldiers were taken to polling booths by non-coms. Voters were allowed to vote without producing cards. Certain Prefects are said to have issued official circulars threatening the electors with punishment if they voted against Constantine. According to Reuter’s Special Service [Athens, December 6], the plebiscite on the question of Constantine's return has taken place throughout the country without disturbance. The result will probably be announced to-day. Amongst the voters were Royal Princes at present in Athens. It is taken for granted that the day went in favour of the ex-King, more especially having regard to the manner in which the plebiscite was conducted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/greek-plebiscite/article33274916.ece
08 December 2020||December 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Tamil for govt. jobs||The Jan Sangh President, Mr. A.B. Vajpayee to-day [December 7, Bangalore] welcomed the reported stand of the Tamil Nadu Government that only those who studied in Tamil medium were eligible for Government employment. Mr. Vajpayee said in a democratic set-up the business of the Government should be in the language of the people. He, however, disapproved of the reported stand of the Tamil Nadu Chief Minister, Mr. Karunanidhi that those who did not know Tamil would be “penalised”. How would Mr. Karunanidhi react if some Hindi protagonists in Delhi wanted all those who did not know Hindi sent to jail, he asked. Mr. Karunanidhi had told the State Assembly on Nov. 30 that in another 10 or 15 years a law would be enacted to punish those who do not know Tamil and to force private firms to employ only Tamil medium graduates. The Education Minister, Mr. Nedunchezhian, however told newsmen in Tiruchi yesterday that the Chief Minister was only thinking aloud and made the observations while retorting to “provocative questions”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/tamil-for-govt-jobs/article33274917.ece
08 December 2020||December 08 2020 00:00 IST,||India bucks China’s record export show||India’s imports from China as well as its trade deficit declined sharply in November, marking an exception to a record month for Chinese exports around the world that registered the fastest growth in almost three years and underlined China’s continuing recovery amid a pandemic-induced global slump. Bilateral trade reached $78 billion over the 11-month period, sharply lower than 2019’s $84.4 billion. China’s shipmemts to India at the end of November accounted for $59 billion, sliding 13% and helping narrow India’s deficit to $40 billion, from $51.6 billion in the year-earlier period. India’s annual trade deficit with its northern neighbour had shrunk by 2% in 2019 to $56.95 billion, marking the first decline since 2005. The slump in China’s exports to India was broadly expected after data from India’s Ministry of Commerce last week showed a 13.3% decline in India’s overall imports in November. India’s imports of electrical and non-electrical machinery – items that have traditionally had the biggest share in China’s exports to the country -- slid by 13.4%, the Centre’s official data showed. Overall, China’s exports surged 21.1% in November, customs data showed, the fastest growth since February 2018, Reuters reported. The pace of increase was almost double October’s 11.4% expansion. November’s exports of $268 billion were the highest on record amid the continuing global economic slump and lockdowns in many of China’s biggest trading partners. Electrical machinery Electrical machinery and equipment was India’s biggest import from China in 2019, worth $20.17 billion. Other major imports last year were organic chemicals ($8.39 billion) and fertilisers ($1.67 billion), according to data available with the Indian Embassy in Beijing. India’s top exports to China in 2019 were iron ore, organic chemicals, cotton and unfinished diamonds. India was the fourth largest exporter of iron ore to China after Australia, Brazil and South Africa. India’s exports to China were up 16% in November reaching $19 billion after 11 months of this year, likely driven by a recovery in Chinese imports of iron ore, which were up 16% according to China’s General Administration of Customs. In November, China also agreed to import rice from India for the first time in three decades, with 1,00,000 tons of exports of broken rice contracted for December to February at $300 per ton, Reuters reported. The rice purchase was a “purely commercial move” as the price was “far cheaper than that of its domestic counterparts”, Jiao Shanwei, editor-in-chief of a Chinese website on grains news, told the Global Times .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/india-bucks-chinas-record-export-show/article33274902.ece
08 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Quarterly return filing option for most GST payers from Jan.||Starting January 2021, 92% of taxpayers under the Goods and Services Tax regime with an annual turnover of up to Rs. 5 crore can opt to file their returns once a quarter instead of the present monthly system, Department of Revenue officials said on Monday. As many as 94 lakh registered GST taxpayers can opt in for the new Quarterly filing of Return with Monthly Payment (QRMP) Scheme, under which GSTR-3B returns can be filed just once a quarter. “The small taxpayer, from January onward, would need to file only 8 returns (4 GSTR-3B and 4 GSTR-1 returns) instead of 16 returns at present in a financial year,” an official said, adding that taxpayers can join the scheme through the GST, with a facility to opt out or opt in again in the future, if one so wishes. The scheme, the official pointed out, was approved in-principle by the GST Council at its meeting on October 5 this year, with a view to provide flexibility to small and medium enterprises in GST compliance norms. While the move is expected to ease the compliance burden on indirect taxes for businesses, the Centre is also hoping to plug leakages and frauds by tightening the grant of input tax credits. “We are also introducing the concept of providing input tax credit only on reported invoices, which could significantly curb the menace of fake invoice frauds,” the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/quarterly-return-filing-option-for-most-gst-payers-from-jan/article33274899.ece
08 December 2020||MUMBAI,||Hindalco to invest Rs. 730 cr. in extrusion plant||Hindalco Industries Ltd., belonging to the Aditya Birla Group, has announced plans to set up a 34,000-tonne extrusion plant at Silvassa with an investment of Rs. 730 crore. The new plant will service the market for extruded aluminium products in the western and southern regions, the company said in a statement. “The project in Silvassa signals a big step forward in Hindalco’s downstream strategy as the company revives its long-term downstream investment plan, it said. The company plans to build a larger value-added product portfolio over the next few years and this investment indicates confidence in the economic revival, which in turn will help raise demand for downstream products, it said. Commercial production is expected to start in 24 months. Satish Pai, MD, said, “We are seeing a revival in the economy, with demand picking up in the construction and auto sectors. This has given us the confidence to move forward.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/hindalco-to-invest-rs-730-cr-in-extrusion-plant/article33274896.ece
08 December 2020||New Delhi,||‘RIL, others don’t need govt. nod for gas pricing’||Reliance Industries and other producers of natural gas will no longer need the government’s approval for gas price if it is arrived at using the new guidelines for the discovery of market price, an official order said. The Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas, last week, notified guidelines for discovery of market prices for domestically produced natural gas via e-bidding. The companies “shall design the tender/ bid offer, including the eligibility criteria, bid parameters, evaluation criteria, tender fee, salient terms and conditions of Gas Sales Agreement and any other relevant information, etc., with a view to encourage wider participation from prospective buyers, promote competition and maximise the value of natural gas offered,” the order said. ONGC and OIL are also to follow these guidelines for discovery of market price of natural gas from their fields wherever pricing and marketing freedom have been granted, it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/ril-others-dont-need-govt-nod-for-gas-pricing/article33274904.ece
08 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Remaining 10% refunds by Jan.: IndiGo||IndiGo on Monday said it had refunded credit shells for 90% of passengers who had booked flights for travel during the two-month flight ban between March 25 and May 24. The airline said it plans to refund the remaining 10% by January 31. The Supreme Court had on October 1 ruled that credit shells for tickets booked during the lockdown should be reimbursed within three weeks. IndiGo has paid refunds to about 20 lakh customers, or about 90% claimants, a spokesperson told The Hindu . This amount stands at Rs. 1,000 crore, the airline said in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/remaining-10-refunds-by-jan-indigo/article33274897.ece
08 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||NCLT to hear Jet revival plan on Dec. 11||The NCLT is expected to take up Jet Airway’s revival plan prepared by the consortium led by Murari Lal Jalan and Kalrock Capital and approved by the airline’s resolution professional, later this week. The consortium has said that Jet aimed to be back in the skies by the summer of 2021 as a full-service carrier, provided its domestic slots at various airports are returned to it. These were reallocated by the government to other Indian carriers, after Jet shut operations in March last year. The National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) is likely to hold the next hearing on December 11, when it is expected to take up the revival of Jet Airways. “The Jet 2.0 hubs will remain in Delhi, Mumbai, and Bengaluru like before. The revival plan proposes to support Tier 2 and Tier 3 cities by creating sub-hubs in such cities,” the consortium said. It added that it would also like to take advantage of the potential of cargo services once distribution of COVID-19 vaccines starts in India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/nclt-to-hear-jet-revival-plan-on-dec-11/article33274900.ece
08 December 2020||MUMBAI,||‘HDFC Bank’s digital outages credit negative’||The Reserve Bank of India’s action in response to weaknesses in HDFC Bank’s digital infrastructure and operational resilience is credit negative because the bank is increasingly relying on digital channels to source and service its customers, Moody’s said in a report. “The recurring outages also risk hurting the bank’s brand perception among a growing and increasingly digitally-savvy customer base, and increases the potential that clients switch to other banks, which would lead to a reduction in revenue and low-cost retail funding,” the credit rating agency said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/hdfc-banks-digital-outages-credit-negative/article33274894.ece
08 December 2020||Sydney,||Kohli’s India looks for a clean sweep||The series pocketed and confidence restored, India will eye a clean sweep when it takes on an Australian side significantly weakened by injury blows in the third and final T20I here on Tuesday. Deja vu Skipper Virat Kohli and his main protagonist of the white-ball leg, Hardik Pandya, will feel a sense of deja vu given that the script has panned out exactly like 2016 when the team got walloped in the ODIs but came back strongly to rout the Aussies 3-0 in the T20I series. What will boost the Indian team’s morale manifold is the fact that it had the confidence to rest both Mohammed Shami and Jasprit Bumrah and rely on a troika that hasn’t collectively played even 40 games. India’s new white-ball sensation T. Natarajan has had a superb initiation into international cricket with the Australians finding it difficult to read him. As Hardik put it, Natarajan’s spell and the 10 runs that Australia failed to score became the difference between winning and losing on Sunday. The difference between India and Australia during the last game was the batting during the middle overs. Australia lost a bit of momentum after stand-in skipper Matthew Wade was dismissed while his opposite number Kohli played some outrageous shots after the PowerPlay to up the ante. Shreyas Iyer’s induction in place of an injured Manish Pandey also worked well. The only glitch in an otherwise solid show was Yuzvendra Chahal’s rare off-day. Australia was, however, missing regular skipper Aaron Finch, David Warner, Mitchell Starc, Pat Cummins and Josh Hazlewood. D’Arcy Short hasn’t looked the part as an opener in the two games and one would expect Marcus Stoinis and Glenn Maxwell to shoulder more responsibility. But Australia’s thin-on-experience bowlers will have to play out of their skins to stop the Indian juggernaut which has started rolling.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kohlis-india-looks-for-a-clean-sweep/article33275062.ece
08 December 2020||KOLKATA,||‘Defeats hurt, but my way is to always fight’||Widely considered one of the greatest goalkeepers to have played the game, Gianluigi Buffon said the key to his longevity under the bar is the ability to use failure as motivation. Optimist by nature “To tell the truth, something I like about myself is that I always try to see the glass as half full. I am an optimist by nature. “In my career, the defeats have really hurt because some of them have been heavy. But my way is to always fight and try to win on another night. This is what stimulates me after every loss,” Buffon, who at 42 is still a part of Serie A champion Juventus’ squad, told Sony Ten 2 ahead of his team’s Champions League fixture against Barcelona. No regrets Looking back at his long career, during which he won a record 176 caps with the Italian national team, Buffon said he has no regrets about not making it 200. “There were times where I thought I could get to around 200 appearances. But in my role as captain, I was happy to put the needs of the team ahead of mine. Needed a happy group “So for me, when it was possible, it was right for the other goalkeepers to play because to achieve the best results as a team, we needed a group that was happy and satisfied. “There were many appearances I may have missed for that, but I think this was the right thing to do,” Buffon said. When asked to name the three best goalkeepers currently, Buffon placed Atletico Madrid’s Jan Oblak at the top of the list. Top custodians “[Jan] Oblak, Alisson [Becker] and I’ll put [Gianluigi] Donnarumma, [Manuel] Neuer and [Thibaut] Courtois. And [Marc-André] ter Stegen! Okay, maybe a few more than three, but they are all great!” Buffon said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/defeats-hurt-but-my-way-is-to-always-fight/article33275042.ece
08 December 2020||Sydney,||Green in good touch||Senior pros Umesh Yadav and R. Ashwin staked a strong claim for a spot in India’s playing XI for the first Test, with impressive performances against Australia-A on Monday. Australia-A scored 286 for eight on the second day, riding on Cameron Green’s unbeaten century. Australia-A took a 39-run lead after India-A declared its first innings at 247 for nine in the first hour, with skipper Ajinkya Rahane remaining unbeaten on 117. With Mohammed Shami and Jasprit Bumrah being automatic choices, Umesh (18-3-44-3), fighting for the third pacer’s slot, certainly looked more penetrative than Mohammed Siraj (19-4-71-2) with the new ball. Umesh removed openers Will Pucovski (1) and Joe Burns (4) in his third and fourth overs to make initial inroads. Ashwin (19-2-58-2), bowling with his cap on, reminded old-timers of Australian off-spinner of the ’80s Greg Mathews (hero of the 1986 Madras tied Test). For Australia-A, giant all-rounder Green continued his rich vein of Sheffield Shield form with an unbeaten 114 off 173 balls with 10 fours and a six. He added 104 for the sixth wicket with Tim Paine (44), after the team was reduced to 98 for five. Another 49 for the eighth wicket with paceman Michael Neser (33) ensured that Australia-A had recovered from a collapse.  Brief scores: India-A 247 for nine decl. (Ajinkya Rahane 117 n.o., Cheteshwar Pujara 54, James Pattinson 3/58) vs Australia-A 286 for eight in 85 overs (Cameron Green 114 batting, Tim Paine 44, Umesh Yadav 3/44, R. Ashwin 2/58, Mohd. Siraj 2/71) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/green-in-good-touch/article33275048.ece
08 December 2020||KOLKATA,||Azaz stars for Town Club||Off-spinner Azaz Ansari picked up four wickets as Town Club defeated East Bengal by three runs in the Bengal T20 Challenge at the Eden Gardens here on Monday. Asked to bat, Town scored 134 for eight before restricting EB to 131 for nine. It finished with 28 points after completing its league engagements. EB tallied 12. On Sunday night, Kalighat Club defeated Calcutta Customs by four wickets to book a place in the semifinals. Useful partnership Kanish Seth made early inroads by scalping Avijit Singh and Gitimoy Basu in successive overs. But southpaw Purab Joshi (32, 35b, 2x4, 1x6), who hit some fine boundaries on the off-side, and Pankaj Shaw (26, 20b, 2x4, 1x6) gathered runs at a good pace to add 52 for the third wicket.  EB struggled in its chase as Mohammed Kaif dismissed openers Shreevats Goswami (13) and Abhimanyu Easwaran (8) in consecutive overs. Azaz bowled miserly and claimed the wickets of Abhishek Raman, Ranjot Khaira, Arnab Nandi and Sujit Yadav to apply further pressure.  The scores: Town Club 134/8 in 20 overs (Purab Joshi 32, Kanishk Seth 3/24, Arnab Nandi 2/9) bt East Bengal 131/9 in 20 overs (Arnab Nandi 40, Azaz Ansari 4/13, Mohd. Kaif 3/21, Aritra Chatterjee 2/19).   Calcutta Customs 127/6 in 20 overs (Suvankar Bal 58, Ramesh Prasad 2/30) lost to Tapan Memorial Club 128/4 in 16.3 overs (Prayas Ray Barman 68, Shakir Gandhi 42 n.o., Bapi Manna 2/17).   On Sunday: Customs 169/5 in 20 overs (Suvankar Bal 86, Agniv Pan 39, Sourav Mondal 2/43) lost to Kalighat Club 170/6 in 20 overs (Sudip Chatterjee 79, Aamir Gani 33, Shreyan Chakraborty 2/22, Ravikant Singh 2/26).   Semifinals on Tuesday: Tapan vs Kalighat (3 p.m.), Town vs Mohun Bagan .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/azaz-stars-for-town-club/article33275558.ece
08 December 2020||KOCHI,||A museum to honour Maradona||Jeweller Boby Chemmanur plans to build a museum in memory of Diego Maradona and will include a life-size gold sculpture representing the legend’s ‘hand of God’ goal against England in the 1986 World Cup. The museum, likely to come up in Kolkata or Kerala, will showcase Maradona’s professional and personal life. “The museum is my tribute to Maradona. It will be a storehouse of information related to the great player and his football. It will function as a centre for entertainment of international standards,” said Chemmannur, chairman and managing director of the Boby Chemmanur International Group which was instrumental in bringing the Argentine great to Kerala eight years ago. Bony Thomas, a founder-trustee of Kochi Biennale Foundation, will be the museum’s curator. Chemmannur said he had presented Maradona with a miniature gold statue of the football legend a few years ago. “Accepting it, the football star expressed the desire to see his life-size gold sculpture of ‘the Hand of God’,” he revealed. “I am extremely happy to be fulfilling that desire of Maradona.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/a-museum-to-honour-maradona/article33275415.ece
08 December 2020||New Delhi,||Jadeja may miss first Test||India all-rounder Ravindra Jadeja is likely to miss the first Test against Australia owing to the concussion and a hamstring injury that he sustained during the opening T20I in Canberra. The 32-year-old, who is one short of his 50th Test, is likely to be out for at least three weeks, ruling him out of the first Day/Night Test in Adelaide starting on December 17. In case it turns out to be a hamstring tear, he could miss the second Boxing Day Test in Melbourne from December 26 as well. “As per ICC’s concussion protocol, after any head injury, a player needs to be rested for seven to 10 days, which effectively rules Jadeja out of the three-day day/night warm-up game at the SCG from December 11,” a BCCI source told PTI. “Therefore, it is next to impossible the team management would field Jadeja without any warm-up game time ahead of the opening Test,” the source said. However, more than concussion, it is understood that the hamstring injury is likely to keep Jadeja out of action for at least one Test, if not two. In 49 Tests, Jadeja has taken 213 wickets and scored 1,869 runs with a hundred and 14 fifties at an average of 35.26.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/jadeja-may-miss-first-test/article33275045.ece
08 December 2020||LIVERPOOL,||Liverpool hunts down Wolves with ease||Liverpool celebrated its first appearance in front of its fans as the English champion on Sunday by humbling Wolves 4-0 to join Tottenham at the top of the Premier League table. Mohamed Salah capitalised on an error by Wolves captain Conor Coady to open the scoring midway through the first half as 2,000 supporters celebrated joyously. Georginio Wijnaldum doubled Liverpool’s lead with a wonderful curled finish from distance shortly before the hour mark and Joel Matip put the game beyond Wolves before a late own goal added gloss to the scoreline. The comfortable win took Jurgen Klopp’s men to 24 points — behind leaders Spurs on goal difference.  Sociedad held In the LaLiga, Real Sociedad was unable to regain the top place on Sunday as it was held to a goalless draw at Alaves. The draw left it one point behind Atletico.  The results:   Premier League: Sheffield United 1 (McBurnie 26) lost to Leicester 2 (Perez 24, Vardy 90); Tottenham 2 (Son 13, Kane 45+1) bt Arsenal 0.   Liverpool 4 (Salah 24, Wijnaldum 58, Matip 67, Semedo 78-og) bt Wolves 0.   LaLiga: Granada 3 (Charris 43, Molina 88, Sanchez 90) drew with Huesca 3 (Rico 21, Garcia 49, Okazaki 82).   Villarreal 0 drew with Elche 0; Deportivo 0 drew with Real Sociedad 0.   Bundesliga: Schalke 0 lost to Bayer Leverkusen 3 (Thiaw 10-og, Baumgartlinger 67, Schick 78); Werder Bremen 1 (Selke 90+3) lost to Stuttgart 2 (Wamangituka 31-pen, 90+1).   Serie A: Verona 1 (Zacccagni 21) drew wih Cagliari 1 (Marin 48); Parma 0 drew with Benevento 0; Roma 0 drew with Sassuolo 0.   Crotone 0 lost to Napoli 4 (Insigne 31, Lozano 58, Demme 76, Petagna 90+1); Sampdoria 1 (Ekdal 83) lost to AC Milan 2 (Kessie 45-pen, Castillejo 77).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/liverpool-hunts-down-wolves-with-ease/article33275050.ece
08 December 2020||December 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Valskis powers JFC past ATKMB||Jamshedpur FC rode on Nerijus Valskis’ brace to shock ATK Mohun Bagan 2-1 in its ISL clash at the Tilak Maidan in Vasco on Monday. ATKMB came into the game undefeated and with three clean sheets, but none of that mattered as it lacked the desired intensity against a well-organised Jamshedpur side. Owen Coyle’s JFC was clinical upfront and created numerous chances, while the defence, led by Peter Hartley, snuffed out the rare attack that came its way. The Red Miners took the lead at the half-hour mark through Valskis’ powerful header off Aitor Monroy’s corner . T.P. Rehenesh, joining the JFC squad after a one-match ban, made a stunning reflex save to deny Roy Krishna from three yards out and produced a terrific diving effort to parry away Glan Martins’ long-ranger. Valskis scored his second in the 66th minute with a simple tap-in following a corner. ATKMB pulled one back through Krishna, who was clearly off-side, in the 80th minute. Antonio Habas’ side had a couple of good opportunities in the dying minutes, but JFC held on for its first win of the season.  The result: Jamshedpur FC 2 (Valskis 30 & 66) bt ATK Mohun Bagan 1 (Krishna 80) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/valskis-powers-jfc-past-atkmb/article33275063.ece
08 December 2020||December 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Mehlawat stars for Vidya Jain Academy||Mohit Mehlawat (61 not out) guided host Vidya Jain Academy past Mahipal Cricket Academy to a six-run victory in the semifinals of the Triveni Cup (under-14) cricket tournament on Monday.  The scores: Vidya Jain Academy 231/6 in 40 overs (Mohit Mehlawat 61 n.o., Sachin Yadav 48, Yuvraj Singh 33) bt Mahipal Cricket Academy 225/7 in 40 overs (Kunal 80, Satyam Singh 44) .    Aniket Dhankar (37 & 4/31) and Abhidev Dhankar (five for 24) excelled as V.S. Cricket Academy defeated Delhi Cricket Hub by 16 runs in the first Ratan Lal Saini cricket tournament here.  The scores: V.S. Cricket Academy 174 in 36.4 overs (Sujal Choudhary 49, Rohan Sharma 48, Aniket Dhankar 37) bt Delhi Cricket Hub 158 in 37 overs (Abhidev Dhankar 5/24, Aniket Dhankar 4/31) .    Swastik Chitkara scored an unbeaten 57 to enable Haryana Cricket Academy race to an eight-wicket victory over G.K. Cricket Club in the first Tripathi Premier League at the Tripathi Sports Complex.  The scores: G.K. Cricket Academy 95 in 28.3 overs (Urooz Rizvi 47 n.o., Raju Barmunda 3/10) lost to Haryana CA 96/2 in 15 overs (Swastik Chitkara 57 n.o.) .    Opener Sarthak Ranjan smashed a blistering unbeaten 115 (42b, 14x4, 8x6) as SRK Technology chased down 138 in just 11.2 overs against DS Academy to win the One-day Open cricket tournament at the Wonders ground here.  The scores: DS Academy 138 in 36.4 overs (Yash Garg 60, Govind Mittal 4/36, Rajat Chaudhary 3/23) lost to SRK Technology 140/0 in 11.2 overs (Sarthak Ranjan 115 n.o., Rishabh Kumar 22 n.o.) .    Dweep Gahlot (2/14 & 56 n.o.) and Vivaan Jindal (2/19 & 36) were the key performers as M-10 Academy beat TN Memorial by four wickets in the Hari Ballabh Sharma memorial (under-14) cricket tournament at the St. Stephen’s ground here.  The scores: TN Memorial 158 in 39.5 overs (Adhikansh Bhardwaj 45, Bhavi Sharma 41) lost to M-10 Academy 160/6 in 38.3 overs (Dweep Gahlot 56 n.o.,Vivaan Jindal 36, Adhikansh Bhardwaj 3/27) .    Man-of-the-Match Aryan Dogra (3/32) and Shivang Sharma (3/9) helped Telefunken Club beat TN Memorial by three wickets in the Turf Youth Cup (under-19) cricket tournament at Guru Govind Singh College ground.  The scores:   TN Memorial 95 in 31overs (Aryan Dogra 3/32, Shivan Sharma 3/9) lost to Telefunken Club 98/7 in 26 overs (Yash Dabas 25, Abhishek Kumar 3/12).    Suraj Kumar (4/19) and Rajender Singh (97 n.o.) enabled Gyanti Academy to beat Delhi Rides by seven wickets in the Ghevra Cup cricket tournament.  The scores:   Delhi Rides 142/9 in 40 overs (Suraj Kumar 4/19) lost to Gyanti Academy 143/3 in 24 overs (Rajender Singh 97 n.o.).    Junaid Ahmed defeated Tanishq Khurana 7-68, 47-16, 46-27, 50-58, 56-19 in the second round of the Delhi State snooker.  Other results (second round):   Yohan Eric bt Sandeep Solanki 56-25, 62-29, 65-21; Kunal Wadhwa bt Animesh Narang 73-24, 63-48, 2-63, 60-17; Sanchit Gupta bt Abhishek Sharma 60-50, 59-48, 13-57, 65-4.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mehlawat-stars-for-vidya-jain-academy/article33275192.ece
08 December 2020||BENGALURU:,||Shrikara, Nikin star for Sir Syed Cricketers||Shrikara (108 n.o.) and S.J. Nikin Jose (77 n.o.) led Sir Syed Cricketers to a thumping nine-wicket win over Jawans CC in the KSCA YS Ramaswamy Memorial tournament super league here. In another match, Anirudha A. Joshi (113) set up Vultures CC’s convincing 166-run victory.  The scores: Jawans 225/6 in 50 overs (Milind Ramesh 32, Aneeshwar Gautam 108 n.o.) lost to Sir Syed Cricketers 226/1 in 34.4 overs (Shrikara 108 n.o., S.J. Nikin Jose 77 n.o.).   Mount Joy 186/9 in 50 overs (V. Madhusudhan 49, Sharan Gouda 25, Ajay Krishnan 32 n.o., Yash Shanbhag 4/24) bt Friends Union (1) 87 in 21.3 overs (Prasidh M. Krishna 4/35).   Vultures 291/7 in 50 overs (K.L. Shrijith 30, R. Smaran 36, Anirudha A. Joshi 113, Praveen Dubey 26, Bala Dilip Kumara 3/57) bt Vijaya, Malur 125 in 30.2 overs (Jay Desai 34, S. Ashwin Ram 64, Abhimanyu Mithun 3/15).   Vijaya 248/9 in 50 overs (A.S. Sri Krishna 34, S. Shivaraj 97, S. Abhijit 25, Taha Khan 4/36) bt Jawahar SC (1) 97 in 20.1 overs (Vidyadhar Patil 4/24, K. Gourav 3/14).   BUCC (1) 209/8 in 50 overs (Rohan Kadam 55, Sharath Srinivas 45, Pranav Bhatia 30, M. Venkatesh 27 n.o., Prithviraj 6/37) lost to Social Cricketers 197/9 in 46.1 overs (K.V. Aneeh 58, Akshay Ballal 57) [Target revised to 197 in 47 overs following a rain interruption].   Rajajinagar Cricketers 283/9 in 50 overs (Nihal Ullal 69, Jayesh Babu 64, H.S. Sharath 33, S. Ankith 4/31) bt Modern 191/7 in 39.2 overs (Jeswanth Acharya 26, N.A. Chinmay 60 n.o., S.M. Shamanth 3/48) [By better run-rate after match was interrupted by rain and target was revised to 267 in 47 overs].   Cambridge 160 in 43.3 overs (Mohammed A. Jawad 27, Abhinav Manohar 36, Adoksh Hegde 35, Prajwal Krishna 5/27) lost to Bangalore Occasionals 120/4 in 30.4 overs (Anupam 42 n.o.) [By better run-rate following a rain interruption].   Swastic Union (1) vs Swastic Union (2) [Match abandoned due to rain].    Suhail Ahmed won the K1000 rally, the second round of the God Speed MRF Indian National Rally Championship for bikes here on Sunday. He also clinched the Group A SuperBike Expert class, while Nataraj of TVS Racing bagged the Pro-Expert class. In Group B, TVS Racing won three of the eight classes with Baja World Cupper Aishwarya Pissay and Syed Asif Ali clinching the Ladies category and Scooter class respectively, while D. Sachin bagged the SuperSport 260cc class. Varun Kumar, T. Arun, Sajeesh Reghunathan and V.S. Naresh were the other winners. Stephen Roy was adjudged Star of Karnataka for finishing 10th overall, above many top drivers.   Varun (101 & three for 25) helped Saraswathipuram SC register an innings and 122-run win over National CC in the two-day KSCA Mysore zone first division league match.  The scores: Ist div.: National CC 46 in 18.4 overs (L. Karthik Kumar 4/17, Varun 3/25) & 56 in 23.3 overs (L. Karthik Kumar 3/10) lost to Saraswathipuram SC 224 for six decl. in 33 overs (Varun 101, S. Chaitanya 68, V. Yashswin Gowda 32, Vinay 3/46).   Jawahars' CC 298 in 82.1 overs (Vinod 126, Delish 44, Ravichandra 4/57, Pruthvi Shekar three for 74) drew with Jaihind CC-A 118 in 69 overs (Subhadip six for 36) & 15 for no loss in 5 overs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/shrikara-nikin-star-for-sir-syed-cricketers/article33275054.ece
08 December 2020||AHMEDABAD,||Smit, Saily take the honours||Smit Patel and Saily Thakkar won the boys’ and girls’ titles in the AITA Championship series under-14 tennis tournament at Altevol-Waske tennis academy.  The results (finals): U-14: Boys: Smit Patel bt Vraj Gohil 6-1, 6-3. Girls: Saily Thakkar bt Aarushi Raval 6-4, 6-4 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/smit-saily-take-the-honours/article33275193.ece
08 December 2020||AUSTIN,||Hall-of-Famer Ralston passes away||Dennis Ralston, a five-time Grand Slam doubles champion who was one of the initial players signed to the professional World Championship Tennis tour in the 1960s and a member of the sport’s Hall of Fame, has died of cancer aged 78.AP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/hall-of-famer-ralston-passes-away/article33275058.ece
08 December 2020||GLASGOW,||Bala scores her first goal for Rangers||Star Indian footballer Bala Devi scored her first goal for Rangers FC in a 9-0 decimation of Motherwell FC in the Scottish Women’s Premier League on Sunday. Coming off the bench in the 65th minute, Bala scored her side’s last goal in the 85th minute. Bala, thus, became the first Indian woman to score in a top-tier professional league in Europe.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bala-scores-her-first-goal-for-rangers/article33275052.ece
08 December 2020||December 08 2020 07:45 IST,||Sudoku - December 8, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-december-8-2020/article33275796.ece
08 December 2020||December 08 2020 00:00 IST,||The moral||Bryan Cranston, 64, looks calm as he settles down for our Zoom call. It is 10.25 am in Los Angeles, and closer to midnight here in India as our interview with the multiple Emmy and Golden Globe winner, to promote his new mini-series, Your Honor , begins. A return to the crime genre after seven years (Vince Gilligan’s Breaking Bad ended in 2013), the show sees Cranston take up the role of Michael Desiato, a highly-respected judge in New Orleans, whose life comes to crossroads when his son is involved in a hit-and-run — will he turn him in or does his paternal instincts kick in? A father’s nightmare Adapted by Peter Moffat from the Israeli show Kvodo , Your Honor gives Cranston yet another intense, compelling role whose arc is bound to remind fans of his still-enduring legacy of Walter White. The actor, however, clarifies that his latest role of an upright father turning criminal to save his son’s life, would not mimic the iconic character of a chemistry teacher-turned-meth cook in Breaking Bad . Could Your Honour be yet another genre-defining turn for Cranston? “The human nature of the project is what drew me to the project. I asked myself what I would do in the face of such a challenge — having to save my child’s life — and it isn’t terribly different from what my character does. So we are on this journey together,” says Cranston. “Fun fact,” he adds. “My character is a runner and back in the day, so was I! I’ve run four marathons in my life, but unfortunately my body is not the same as it was in the 80s. I pulled my hamstring in one scene, hurt myself and had epidural shots in my spine… what a mess!” Given that the show is adapted from the Israeli series, has he seen the original show? “Watching another actor’s performance in a different iteration of the same series doesn’t help me, so I haven’t seen the Israeli version yet. Had I watched it, I might have inadvertently stolen something from it. But I am looking forward to giving it a shot now.” Pre-release reviews of Your Honor state the series is sensitive when it come to portraying modern-day racism in the United States. Asked if he thinks a project like this could influence change, Cranston says “very possible”. He adds, “An artist’s responsibility is to be authentic and faithful to the reality around us — or either choose an utopian fantasy that we can all strive for/ a dystopian society where everything collapses.” Been there, done that He does admit that there is a certain level of satisfaction he gets out of breathing life into troubled characters. “I am a person who is imperfect. We all have strengths and weaknesses — and in a dramatic narrative — you want to watch a story about someone who is conflicted, has flaws, and is trying to be a better person. The audience then can invest their time, energy and sympathy into rooting for that person to find his way through that maze of difficulty.” Comparisons are inevitable to his most legendary character till date. Was he mindful of this, when the show was offered? “Well, that was expected. For one, I am the actor who played both characters. I am of a certain age today, which means that any character I play is most likely going to be a parent. However, the similarities stop there. Walter (White) was very methodical in the way he planned his path and went there purposefully. Whereas, Michael’s actions are very impulsive and his journey is full of surprising twists and turns.” Cranston adds that as actors, the roots (of the characters) are rather shallow. “We plant a tree, nurture and grow it for seven years, and then you have to lift it and try to put it somewhere else. But I constantly try to find differences; the more you work, the harder it is to find distinction between your characters. All I have learned from Breaking Bad is the desire to do good work; stories that are compelling and resonate with audiences. The pandemic and lockdown have reminded us of the value of pure entertainment. A distraction for just a few hours, if its worthwhile, helps people to step aside from their issues for a moment.” Considering he plays a judge in Your Honor , what’s his take on (in)justice in today’s climate? “Injustice is universal. In the battle of the rich vs the poor, the rich have an edge and the verdicts go in favour of them. Racism and an unfair playing field is true globally, and to change that is a slow boat. It takes hard work and determination, and that is our quest: to fight for justice.” Your Honor will stream on Voot Select, on December 7 at 8:30am (weekly drop). The series will also air in India on Zee Café.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/the-moral/article33275454.ece
08 December 2020||December 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Astronomers of the past||Trekking up the ardous route to the misty peak of Agastyakoodam, astrophysicist and academic Anand Narayanan, marvelled at the spirit of enquiry and adventure that motivated John Allan Broun, a British astronomer, to make the same trip more than 150 years ago. “Broun, the second director of the observatory in Thiruvananthapuram (appointed in 1852 ), felt that an observatory post atop the Agastyakoodam, the second highest peak in the Western Ghats in Kerala, would be the best place to carry out studies on magnetism. We were tracing his footsteps to see if we could discover the post he had set up there,” says Anand, Associate Professor at the Indian Institute of Space Science and Technology. Ever since Anand first heard about the ‘ nakshatra bungalow’ in Thiruvananthapuram city from local history buffs, he was intrigued. “It still exists in the heart of the city but hardly anyone knows about its significance and the work of eminent scientists who had worked there,” he says. He began delving into the history of the observatory and read annual reports brought out by the erstwhile Travancore Administration,preserved at the Public Library in the city. “I was able to read the report on the centenary of the observatory in 1937, where many dignitarieshad gathered to celebrate the occasion. I realised that though it is a small facility, it had been through a lot of ups and downs, depending on the people at the helm,” says Anand.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/astronomers-of-the-past/article33275451.ece
08 December 2020||December 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Superman in disguise||Sonu Sood is not an unfamiliar name in the film industry. As an actor, he has gained fame and success in Tamil, Telugu, Hindi, Kannada, Punjabi and even Mandarin films. Now as a humanitarian, he has garnered love and respect from scores of people across the country. From providing transport to migrant labourers to helping them with financial assistance, Sonu has kept himself busy during the lockdown. He is also co-host of a three-part documentary, Bharat Ke Mahaveer , that showcases stories of 12 people who have helped their communities during the pandemic. Hosted by Sonu Sood and Dia Mirza, the documentary gave Sonu the opportunity to discuss with the mahaveers (brave men and women) how they helped their communities in these testing times. “If you desire to do something good for the society, nothing can stop you. It was quite a learning experience for me as well,” says Sonu over phone. With the launch of his job portal, Pravasi Rojgar, he has changed the lives of countless people for the better. “They [migrant workers] have never had their own identity”, says the actor-turned-humanitarian, while discussing the migrant crisis during the pandemic. The actor says he has realised how to use social media platforms wisely to help him connect with people in dire situations. Using the platform to reach out to people who otherwise won’t be able to get in touch with him, he is connected with over 2 lakh people resolving issues related to jobs, transportation and surgeries, adds Sonu. Going forward, the portal will upskill the candidates and train them to secure the job they wish to have. The actor says that balancing his film career with social work has been challenging but a blessed experience. “People gather around the set when I am filming and tell me their problems, I help them between shots,” says Sonu. Recently, during a shoot with Telugu superstar Chiranjeevi, the two actors joked about how fight scenes felt wrong because of Sonu’s off-screen persona — of a good samaritan. He recalls one such shoot where the director re-shot many scenes to invert his on-screen perception of a villain, to avoid backlash from the actor’s followers. Bharat Ke Mahaveer airs every Saturday and Sunday on Discovery Plus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/superman-in-disguise/article33275456.ece
08 December 2020||New Delhi,||Data of transgender prisoners to be included in reports: Centre||The National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) will include transgenders as a separate third gender in their annual publication of Prison Statistics India from 2020 onwards, the Delhi High Court was informed on Monday. Additional Solicitor General (ASG) Chetan Sharma informed a Bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Prateek that the NCRB has issued a communication to all the States and Union Territories to include data of transgender prisoners in prison statistics reports from 2020 onwards. So far, the Prison Statistics of India (PSI), which collects annual data on prisoners in prisons across the country collected the data under two categories — male and female. Now, the NCRB intends to include transgenders in the gender classification of prisoners from PSI-2020 onwards. “Accordingly, gender classification of the prisoners will be classified as Male, Female and Transgender in the PSI performa and Annexcures,” read a letter issued by the NCRB. Online training The NCRB also conducted a two-day online training on ‘Traning of Trainers on Prison Statistics India’ on December 3 and 4, in which the trainees were sensitised about the inclusion of transgender in the gender classification. In view of the submission, the High Court disposed of a petition by law graduate Karan Tripathi, seeking recognisation of transgenders as a separate third gender in the PSI. Mr. Tripathi, represented by advocate Akhil Hasija, had argued that unless the NCRB assign a proper sex to the prison inmates, who may be transgenders, there cannot be a proper guarantee of their civil rights, constitutional rights and even basic human rights.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/data-of-transgender-prisoners-to-be-included-in-reports-centre/article33275204.ece
08 December 2020||New Delhi,||At the border, farmers from Punjab and Haryana find unity in adversity||Common misgivings about the laws, which they demand be repealed aside, and their proximity at the Delhi’s Singhu border for over a fortnight have brought protesting farmers from Punjab and Haryana together in more ways than one. A possible goal? Amid a sea of tractors, community kitchens and campsites stretching for kilometres, agitating farmers from both States said their newfound unity has brought them to acknowledge, and accept, shared cultural heritage they had almost forgotten, practices peculiar to their respective fields divided by State lines in the present and, in the idea of ‘Greater Punjab’, a possible goal for the future. The characteristic “hookah panchayat”, considered native to Haryana, was credited by many as having played a uniting role for agriculturalists from both States. A series of such meetings, they said, had made them question “imaginary State divisions between Jatts and Jats” created “solely for political and divisive reasons.” “The Punjabi farmer has overcome his dislike of tobacco smoke from the hookah and joins us for our panchayats without fail. Old or young, Jat or Jatt, we sit and think about the greatness of undivided Punjab every day. Maybe that is the way forward after this battle — a fight for a Greater Punjab,” said Suresh Dhaka, a protester from Haryana’s Sirsa district. ‘Politics divide’ Manvinder Singh from Punjab’s Doda district said if the last 11 days had taught him anything, it was that differences between Punjabis and Haryanvis, which led to the State’s division in the past were “purely political.” “The only difference between Jatt and Jat is in the way you spell either word just like there is slight difference in the languages that we speak. We go to their hookah panchayats and they have learnt how much better their experience of tending to their fields can become if they equip their tractors with the woofer speakers that are common in Punjabi fields,” Mr. Singh said. In the end, Harminder Dhillon, a farmer from Jalandhar, said farmers from both States were united by keerat (prayers) and kheti (farming). Meanwhile, farmers said they had been discussing modalities related to the Bharat Bandh on Tuesday in addition to a march to Parliament if the government did not accede to their demands after talks on December 9 risking possible clashes with security personnel. “All we are waiting for now is a ‘yes’ or ‘no’ from the government. There will be no more talks after Wednesday. If they say yes to our demands we will go back happily, if they say ‘no’, we will happily march on New Delhi to the Parliament to get ourselves heard properly,” said Avtar Singh Gill from Amritsar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/at-the-border-farmers-from-punjab-and-haryana-find-unity-in-adversity/article33275220.ece
08 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Visibility in city drops to zero for first time this season||Delhi woke up to a layer of dense fog on Monday, with the visibility in many areas falling to zero for the first time this season. At Palam, the visibility dropped to zero at 6.30 a.m., causing airlines to send messages to passengers, asking them to prepare for delays due to the poor visibility. In other parts of the city as well visibility fell to around 300 metres in the morning, the Met Department said. The weather forecast showed that dense fog is expected on Tuesday as well. “Mainly clear sky with dense to very dense fog in the morning. The maximum and minimum temperatures are likely to be around 27 and 11 degrees Celsius respectively,” it read. Minimum temperature The minimum temperature has risen in the first week of December as compared to November, with the minimum on Monday settling at 12 degrees Celsius, which is three degrees above normal. The maximum settled at 26.3 degrees Celsius, which was two degrees above normal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/visibility-in-city-drops-to-zero-for-the-first-time-this-season/article33275208.ece
08 December 2020||December 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Kejriwal visits Singhu border to inspect arrangements at site||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday visited the Singhu border to inspect arrangements made for protesting farmers and also showed support for the Bharat Bandh. Mr. Kejriwal said: “I have come here today to inspect all the arrangements in the area. I have seen that the toilets have been set up and sanitation has also been ensured. The water will be diverted inside with the help of water pipes and motors. I have seen the living and food arrangements.” He alleged that he had faced “pressure from several quarters” to give his assent to what he alleged was the BJP-led Central government’s “foolproof plan” to get agitating farmers lodged at temporary jail created at Delhi’s stadiums to stifle their movement. “There was a lot of pressure on us to convert the stadiums into jails. The Central government had a fool proof plan to put these farmers into jails located in the stadiums to end the movement. But we listened to our conscience,” he said. Mr. Kejriwal also said: “I am not here as a Chief Minister, I have come here as a sewadar [helper]. I have come here to serve the farmers. The farmers put in all their hard work and efforts and grow food for us. They are in a huge problem today and it is the responsibility of all the citizens of the country to stand with the farmers and work for their service,” Mr. Kejriwal said. Stating that the farmers were satisfied with the arrangements made for them by the Delhi government, Mr. Kejriwal made a public appeal for participation in the Bharat Bandh on Tuesday in a peaceful manner. Rai to Centre In a related development, after a meeting with the Centre, Delhi Development Minister Gopal Rai said he had requested that it legalise the Minimum Support Price (MSP) by following the recommendations of the Swaminathan Commission and also to accept the demands of the protesters. “I have requested the Central Government that they should listen to the demands of the farmers and bring a law to legalise the MSP. This will help all the farmers across the country,” said Mr. Rai. He said he had also asked the Centre to “listen” to the demands of the farmers who had been protesting on the streets for the last 11 days. Also, Mr. Rai, at a meeting with the agriculture ministers of Delhi, Haryana and Punjab said he batted for the implementation of the recommendations of the Swaminathan Commission on the MSP. Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Monday termed Mr. Kejriwal’s visit to Singhu border as a stunt to further his political interests. Capt. Amarinder said: “If Mr. Kejriwal thought all the demands of the farmers to be valid, why did he not get State Amendment Laws passed in Delhi on the lines of Punjab and some other States to negate the devastating effects of the Central laws.” He asked Mr. Kejriwal to back his claims of supporting the farmers’ demands by opposing the farm laws openly and constitutionally, instead of “indulging in political drama for public consumption.” “This political spectacle is not going to help the farmers. The farmers have seen through your sneaky little ways,” he said. ‘Eye on Punjab polls’ “A few hours of media limelight is all that the AAP national convener managed to get from this drama,” quipped Capt. “..the whole drama of supporting the Bharat Bandh and standing with the farmers was being enacted by the party with an eye on Punjab Assembly elections due in early 2022. You [Kejriwal] and your party members in Punjab had exposed your deceit and double standards back in 2017, and your wishy-washy stand on the farmers’ issue now has again nailed your lies,” he said.  I have requested the Central Government that they should listen to the demands of the farmers and bring a law to legalise the MSP. This will help all the farmers across the country Gopal Rai Delhi Development Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/kejriwal-visits-singhu-border-to-inspect-arrangements-at-site/article33275222.ece
08 December 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi’s air quality almost ‘severe’||The air quality of Delhi was a notch lower than the “severe” category on Monday while that of Noida, Ghaziabad were in the “severe” category and Gurugram in the “very poor” category, as per the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data. The national capital’s air quality is expected to improve on Tuesday and stay in the “very poor” category. “Due to marginally better ventilation conditions, the AQI is likely to further improve tomorrow. The AQI is likely to stay in the middle-end of the ‘very poor’ category on December 9 and 10,” said a statement by the government-run monitoring agency SAFAR (System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research). The AQI of Delhi was 400 on Monday, as per CPCB’s 4 p.m. bulletin, which is an average of the past 24 hours. The values for Gurugram, Ghaziabad, and Noida were 357, 438, and 422 respectively. The surface-level winds were calm and the boundary level winds were north-westerly in direction on Monday in Delhi. The contribution of stubble burning in neighbouring States to PM2.5, a chief pollutant, in Delhi was estimated to be only 1% on Monday. Also, the number of fire counts in neighbouring States were only 239, as per SAFAR.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/delhis-air-quality-almost-severe/article33275206.ece
08 December 2020||GURUGRAM,||Industry associations seek solution to stand-off between govt., farmers||With industries in Haryana hit by the ongoing agitation, several associations in the State have sought an early resolution in the stand-off between the farmers and the government. The associations have expressed apprehension that a continued stalemate could lead to shutdown of many units. Progress Harmony Development (PHD) Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Haryana Chapter, chairperson, Pranav Gupta said industry viewed agriculture as its part and unrest in the sector would affect the industry. He said the industry favoured a meaningful dialogue between the farmers and the government to break the deadlock and find an early solution to the issue. He added that the economy was already struggling due to lockdown and the industry did not want agriculture sector  to suffer and drag the Gross Domestic Product down. He, however, added that Bandh would further disrupt the production in the industry. Mr. Gupta said the chamber represented around 6,000 industrial units across different sectors in Haryana and the entire sector was suffering due to the ongoing agitation. NCR Chamber of Commerce and Industry (Gurugram) president H.P. Yadav said the transportation of raw material and processed goods was hit due to the blockades and production had reduced to almost half in many units. He said auto sector was hit the hardest. Gurgaon Industrial Association president J. N. Mangla said both farmers and the industry should find an immediate solution to the issue. “If the agitation continues, it will create more problems for the industrial sector,” said Mr. Mangla.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/industry-associations-seek-solution-to-stand-off-between-govt-farmers/article33275218.ece
08 December 2020||New Delhi,||Sisodia opposes Tiwari’s plea in defamation case||Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Monday opposed in the Delhi High Court a plea by BJP MP Manoj Tiwari, seeking quashing of summons issued against him in a defamation complaint filed by the AAP leader. Mr. Tiwari and BJP MLA Vijender Gupta have challenged a trial court’s November 28, 2019 order summoning them and others as accused in the criminal defamation case filed by Mr. Sisodia. Mr. Sisodia had filed a defamation complaint against the BJP leader for allegedly levelling corruption charges against him in relation to Delhi government schools’ classrooms. During the hearing, senior advocate Pinky Anand, representing Mr. Tiwari, argued that the summoning order of the trial court was based on legally inadmissible evidence and so it was illegal. Ms. Anand said the trial court’s order was bad in law and it should be quashed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/sisodia-opposes-tiwaris-plea-in-defamation-case/article33275203.ece
08 December 2020||New Delhi,||Mayors protest outside CM’s house over funds||The Mayors of the three BJP-led municipal corporations of Delhi on Monday sat on protest and demonstrated at Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal’s residence demanding that the government disburse dues amounting to Rs. 13,000 crore to the civic bodies. Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta instructed corporation leaders to meet the Chief Minister and demand the dues, but Mr. Kejriwal allegedly refused to meet the delegation. “It is very sad that whenever the Mayors of all the three civic bodies, working in the public interest, ask for time to meet the CM to release the outstanding funds of the corporations, he doesn’t even meet for two minutes,” Mr. Gupta alleged. Meanwhile, AAP said: “It is very unfortunate that the MHA is initiating a rebellion in Delhi through the medium of Delhi Police. The MLAs who came to meet Mr. Kejriwal were beaten and sent away.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/mayors-protest-outside-cms-house-over-funds/article33275211.ece
08 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Saket, Chandni Chowk metro stations see average waiting time of 28 mins||Nearly a month into providing real-time average waiting time updates for a few stations, the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) has seen an average waiting time of 28 minutes to 35 minutes at stations like Saket, Chandni Chowk and Rajiv Chowk. The DMRC had announced on November 11 that the real-time average waiting time at a few of the stations with a heavy footfall, would be provided if the waiting time went beyond 20 minutes. On Monday, the Saket metro station recorded an average waiting time of 35 minutes during the morning peak hour. Peak hours on the metro network are between 8.30 a.m. to 10.30 a.m. while in the evening it is from 5.30 p.m. to 7.30 p.m. The updates provided by the public transporter on its social media handles showed that stations like Chawri Bazaar saw a waiting time of 25 minutes during peak hours in the morning on November 12, while at Rajiv Chowk metro station the average waiting time was 21 minutes during the evening peak hours on the same day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/saket-chandni-chowk-metro-stations-see-average-waiting-time-of-28-mins/article33275213.ece
08 December 2020||December 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Social distancing||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/sticky-situation/article33275216.ece
08 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Students’ forum calls to support Bharat Bandh||The All India Forum to Save Public Education on Monday gave a call to students across the country to support the farmers’ call for Bharat Bandh today. The forum, which is supported by student unions and student associations, has asked them to hold protests in their respective areas or campuses in solidarity with the farmers and demand the government to repeal the new farm laws. In a statement, the forum said India’s struggle for independence was led by marginalised workers and peasant masses and the Indian state has declared a war on its own people instead of addressing a democratic agitation of farmers. “Undemocratic means like digging the highway, arresting without warrants, and false cases on peasant leaders are being employed to prevent the farmers from reaching Delhi,” the students said. It added that the NDA regime has been on a spree of privatisation since coming to power. “The NEP 2020 has commercialised education to an unprecedented extent and has sold the education sector to the corporates. It is the same corporate loot that the NDA is encouraging through the recently passed Farm Acts. By attacking the basic livelihood of the farmers of the country the regime aims to destroy the future of not just the farmers but also their children,” the students said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/students-forum-calls-to-support-bharat-bandh/article33275217.ece
08 December 2020||New Delhi,||DJB blames U.P., Haryana for Yamuna frothing||Reacting to frothing in the Yamuna, the Delhi Jal Board (DJB) vice-chairman Raghav Chadha on Monday attacked Uttar Pradesh and Haryana governments for polluting the river. “While it appears that the governments of Uttar Pradesh and Haryana are not bothered about releasing untreated wastewater into the Yamuna, I would like to put on record that the Delhi Jal Board has been constantly working to upgrade and augment its STP (Sewage Treatment Plant) capacities so that untreated effluents are not released into the Yamuna,” Mr. Chadha said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/djb-blames-up-haryana-for-yamuna-frothing/article33275209.ece
08 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Groom shot at in Mundka||A 27-year-old groom was shot at by a few men in Outer Delhi’s Mundka on Sunday night during his wedding procession, the police said on Monday. The victim has been identified as Raman, a resident of Palak village. They said they received information at 9.15 p.m. regarding a firing at a marriage ceremony near Hiran Kudna. On reaching the spot, they were told that the groom has sustained a gunshot injury and has been hospitalised. A case has been registered and manhunt launched to nab the absconding criminals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/groom-shot-at-in-mundka/article33275210.ece
08 December 2020||New Delhi,||Riots: HC seeks response from police on JNU student’s plea||The Delhi High Court on Monday sought response from the police on a plea by JNU student and Pinjra Tod activist Devangana Kalita — arrested in a case related to the north-east Delhi riots — seeking copies of videos of protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA). Justice Suresh Kumar Kait asked the Delhi police to file a status report in the case and posted the case for further hearing on January 7, 2021. Ms. Kalita has sought copies of videos of protests against the CAA and other electronic data available with the police in the matter that were filed along with the chargesheet in the case. Ms. Kalita is in judicial custody in the case in which she is charged under the anti-terror law Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. Earlier in September, the High Court had granted her bail in connection with an FIR registered on February 26, 2020 at Jafrabad police station. Ms. Kalita is facing four different FIRs connected to the anti-CAA protests in the riots and violence in Daryaganj during a protest last year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/riots-hc-seeks-response-from-police-on-jnu-students-plea/article33275212.ece
