13 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Farmers picket 165 toll plazas nationwide||Farmers’ groups picketed toll plazas at 165 locations across the country, allowing toll-free movement of vehicles on major national highways on Saturday, as part of the ongoing protests demanding the repeal of the three contentious farm laws. By evening, a small group of farmers from Rajasthan had moved to block the Delhi-Jaipur highway at Rewari in Haryana, while thousands more gathered on the Rajasthan side of the border to begin a march to Delhi on Sunday morning. This is the 17th day of protest on the highways surrounding the national capital, with tens of thousands of farmers, under the joint banner of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, already blocking four major crossing points on Delhi’s borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh. Since the talks broke down earlier this week, with farmers rejecting the Centre’s proposal to amend some provisions in the laws, the Morcha has vowed to step up the agitation. “We will go for talks if the government calls us, but the focus is on these three laws. Until these laws are repealed, we will not begin discussing other issues,” said Kanwalpreet Singh Pannu, president of the Kisan Sangharsh committee, at a press conference at the Singhu border point. Hunger strike He added that farm union leaders would also sit on a day-long hunger strike on Monday. Across States, protests were held at about 165 out of the 450 toll booths, according to estimates provided by the All India Kisan Sabha. In Punjab, all toll plazas have been free since October after the new laws were passed. In Haryana, farmers staged sit-ins, shouting anti-BJP slogans, at toll plazas in 20 locations. They also picketed petrol pumps and malls run by the Reliance group, which farmers see as an example of large corporates set to benefit from these laws. “Farmers staged dharna at almost all the toll plazas in Haryana. Group of farmers gathered at toll-plazas since morning on the Ambala-Hisar highway. Besides, we were picketing at toll plazas in Hisar district, situated on the roads leading to Delhi, Rajgarh, Sirsa and Chandigarh,” Rattan Mann, president of the Haryana Bharatiya Kisan Union (Tikait), told The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/farmers-picket-165-toll-plazas-nationwide/article33318132.ece
13 December 2020||Bengaluru,||Bus strike to continue as protesters threaten hunger strike||The stand-off between road transport corporation (RTC) workers and the State government, which will continue on Sunday, has caused much inconvenience to people, who have either put off their travel plans or made alternative arrangements. Drivers and conductors, who launched an indefinite strike on December 11 demanding that they be considered government employees, are showing no signs of relenting. Kodihalli Chandrashekar, president of the Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha, who is leading the protests, announced on Saturday that the protesters would go on a fast from Sunday. Chandrashekar R., president of the Sarige Noukararu Sarakari Noukararaguva Horatada Okkoota,told The Hindu that a representation was submitted to the Minister concerned on Saturday evening. “I am hopeful of a meeting between protesters, headed by our honorary president Mr. Kodihalli Chandrashekar, and the government.” On Saturday night, Transport Minister Laxman Savadi, after a meeting with the Chief Minister, told the reporters that a meeting had been scheduled with union leaders at 10 a.m. on Sunday. The Minister said he was hopeful of resolving the issues within the financial limits of the government, but admitted that giving them government employee status would be difficult. Mr. Savadi had said earlier that if the strike continued, private operators would be asked to run buses and other passenger transport vehicles from Sunday as an alternative measure. He said private buses would ferry passengers as per the fares fixed by the government. “If they continue with the strike, private operators will be asked to run buses from Bengaluru to districts, and from the district levels to taluk and village levels. Even in Bengaluru Urban area, private buses will be operated,” he had said. However, private operators claimed that they were not consulted by the government on this. Nataraj Sharma, chairman of the Karnataka State Tourist Operators’ Association, said, “No one approached us. The Minister has come out with such a statement to create confusion among protesters. We had asked the Minister to waive taxes as private operators suffered huge losses because of the pandemic, but he never entertained [our pleas]. Now, he is talking about allowing us to run buses when corporation employees are on strike.” He added that if allowed to run buses, private operators may not agree to go by the fares fixed by the government. Buses remain off the road The general public continued to suffer as most buses remained off the road on Saturday. Employees of the corporations refused to take buses out from the depots, leaving people, including the elderly, women, children, and patients who had come to the city for treatment, stranded at bus stops. Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC) and Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) could operate only a skeleton service. Till Saturday evening, the BMTC operated 126 buses out of over 4,800 schedules, while the KSRTC operated 210 buses from around 6,000 schedules. A trainee driver who was roped in for duty, lost control of the wheel and rammed into another bus. “In Bengaluru, miscreants pelted stones at four buses, including airport service buses at HSR Layout and Ring Road,” said an official. Three KSRTC buses were damaged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/as-stand-off-continues-rtc-workers-threaten-to-launch-fast/article33318179.ece
13 December 2020||New Delhi,||Army veterans to lay down 25,000 medals for farmers’ cause||Army veterans camping at the Singhu border, the heart of the farmers’ agitation, have, since November 26, collected 5,000 gallantry medals that they seek to return “in lieu” of the Centre’s decision to repeal the three new farm laws. Predominantly hailing from Punjab and Haryana and with farming as a source of sustenance now, the veterans said they planned to collect 25,000 medals over the next two days. Lakhs more were on their way to the protest site, they added. “I come from a family of both jawans (soldiers) andkisans(farmers) from which eight men have been martyred either in war or at the border. I was proud of that fact but because of what the government is doing to us now, it has begun feeling like this country is no longer worth living in, leave alone to die for,” said retired Havaldar Balwant Singh, 80, from Jhajjar in Haryana. “We have been here since the 26th [of November] and the same government, instead of listening to us cry, is busy finding ways to force these black laws created by people in air-conditioned rooms.” Farmers detained Retired Subedar S.P. Singh from Gurdaspur said some six farmers, who had attempted to meet President Ram Nath Kovind to return a small batch of medals last week, were not only unsuccessful but placed under detention. Retired Havaldar Bartar Singh from Patiala alleged that the group of veterans was detained for two whole days and their phones and belongings were confiscated. “I was afauji(soldier) earlier but even before that, I was a labourer and a farmer. We are willing to sacrifice these medals in return for a repeal of the black laws. It was in that spirit that we went to the Rashtrapati Bhavan on Thursday, but were detained,” he alleged. “They kept us in detention for two whole days thinking we will go back home, but the first thing we did after being released this morning was to come back here to join the protest.” Retired Naik Kapil Dev from Haryana said farmers and ex-servicemen and the families of serving jawans had been “hurt” by the treatment being meted out to those participating in the protests by the government. Sweat and blood The veterans had decided to forfeit medals symbolising the glory they had earned over decades. Men were participating in protests guided by a call of duty as their sons, as soldiers, were at the border. “These medals were given not for entertainment but for valour, for coming face to face with death, through sweat and blood and tears, but the jawan is ready to let them go for a better future for the farmer,” he said. “There are fathers here who have chosen to sit in solidarity with other farmers even as their sons are martyred at the border. And the government is alleging that such people have ulterior motives?” he said. Retired Havaldar Suresh Kumar Dahiya from Jhajjar alleged that the Union government had consistently, and was continuing to, let both farmers and soldiers down. “Only two sections take a country forward — the farmer and the soldier. I and many like me here are both, and the government has let all of us down,” he complained. “Farmers are being forced to accept laws which will lead to their destruction and, on the other hand, the condition of war widows, despite announcements and packages which are used for politics, are deplorable,” he alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/army-veterans-to-lay-down-25000-medals-for-farmers-cause/article33318629.ece
13 December 2020||Kolkata,||Hunger situation in West Bengal critical, finds survey||At a time when the West Bengal government has started a major public outreach campaign, Duare sarkar , a survey on the issue of hunger and food security by the Right to Food Campaign, a network of organisations, has revealed that the food situation in the State remains critical. “About 18.7% have gone to bed hungry in the last 30 days in West Bengal and 44% are reporting that they have to borrow more to meet their food needs,” a statement issued by the Right to Food Campaign said. The study was carried out by 100 enumerators from 20 civil society organisations, while trade unions and NGOs were involved in conducting this survey with 2,906 vulnerable households spreading over 21 districts of Bengal. It is also part of a larger survey conducted across 11 States of India: Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Rajasthan, Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Delhi, Telangana, Tamil Nadu and West Bengal. The study was carried in October and November, and the enumerators checked people’s access to food before and after the lockdown. “The important question is, will the mere filling up of forms under the Bengal government’s Duare sarkar scheme fill people’s stomachs if there are no foodgrains to back up the new ration cards that are issued? Will the State government provide work to all those who fill up application forms for work and for new job cards without augmenting the financial resources available for the 100 days programme?” asked Anuradha Talwar, a member of Right to Food Campaign, who played a crucial part in the survey. Ms. Talwar also added that five kg of free ration under the PMGKAY (Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana) to 62% of households covered under the National Food Security Act in West Bengal has been discontinued since December, despite a huge stock with the Centre, which will further lead to distress. The study also pointed out that 68% report a fall in consumption of pulses, 69% a decrease in consumption of vegetables, 66% a drop in consumption of wheat and rice, and 80% a decline in consumption of non-vegetarian food (egg, meat, fish) in the last 30 days. The study further revealed that another deprivation in West Bengal has been the theft of food from children, and pregnant and lactating mothers. “A closer look at the midday meal scheme and integrated child development services (ICDS) has shown that children, and pregnant and lactating women have been distributed potatoes and rice mainly after the lockdown. The shortfall between what they should have received in schools and what they actually got in West Bengal is almost 17,000 tonnes of foodgrains amounting to Rs. 269 crore,” the statement issued by the Right to Food Campaign said. The one positive thing which the study found is (unlike other States that have been part of the national study) 90% of the participants in West Bengal hunger watch felt that they did not face any discrimination while accessing food/work services due to their social identities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hunger-situation-in-west-bengal-critical-finds-survey/article33318524.ece
13 December 2020||Mumbai,||State sees 4,259 new cases, 3,949 recoveries||Maharashtra on Saturday reported 4,259 fresh COVID-19 cases, taking the total count of infections to 18,76,699, while 80 more deaths pushed the toll to 48,139, the State Health Department said. A total of 3,949 patients were discharged during the day, taking the tally of recoveries to 17,53,922, it said. The State is now left with 73,542 active cases, while 1,16,38,336 people have been tested so far, including 68,199 tests in the day, the department said. The case recovery rate in the State reached 93.46% while the case fatality rate is 2.57%. 680 cases in Mumbai Mumbai city added 680 new cases and 10 fatalities, taking the tally of cases to 2,90,030 and deaths to 10,965. In the Mumbai Metropolitan Region, including Mumbai, 1,311 new patients were added while 21 died, which raised the case load to 6,47,761 and the death toll to 18,710. In Nashik city, 208 fresh cases were reported, while Pune added 316 patients. In Pimpri-Chinchwad, 119 new infections were reported, Aurangabad 133, and Nagpur 329.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-sees-4259-new-cases-3949-recoveries/article33318613.ece
13 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Amaravati made capital for benefit of a few people: Advocate-General||Advocate-General (A-G) S. Sriram insisted in the High Court on Friday that it should be satisfied with the legality, bonafides and constitutionality of the process that led to the notification of Amaravati as capital city before adjudicating on the writ petitions (WPs) which challenged the validity of the AP Decentralisation and Inclusive Development of All Regions and CRDA Repeal Acts. Summing up his arguments on the matter, Mr. Sriram maintained that none of the pleas of good governance, promissory estoppel and legitimate expectation would be fatal for the constitutionality of the Act and urged the court not to restore the state of affairs in Amaravati, as transpired in 2014, saying that it was a dishonest and non-bonafide decision making process. He told the court that it was not empowered to restore an illegality which vitiated the original decision of locating the capital in Amaravati city. ‘Not inclusive’ The Advocate-General further said Amaravati does not have the characteristics of an inclusive city that reflects a sense of belonging to all the people of the State. A ‘right to a city’ at State expense is not fundamental to the petitioners and it ought to be available to people across the State. “Amaravati is posited to be a city that is exclusive for the benefit of a few people,” he asserted. He contended that a few families sought to control land and other resources in the capital city and it is inconsistent with the constitutional ideal of good governance. Panel findings The findings of the Cabinet sub-committee (set up by the present government) are before the court and the legislative process was preceded by receipt of representations from the affected farmers, the Advocate-General said. Mr. Sriram added that the court cannot protect the interests of a few purchasers and other extraneous elements who bought the lands for speculative purposes and such speculation does not merit condonation (by the court).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/check-legality-of-amaravati-creation/article33318057.ece
13 December 2020||Mumbai,||Lawyers, activists tell Uddhav: Maharashtra Shakti Bill will deny women hope of justice||Women lawyers, academicians, activists, and women and child rights organisations have written to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray raising objections to the Maharashtra Shakti Bill and the Special Courts and Machinery for the Implementation of the Shakti Bill, and said, “The effect of this Bill will completely deny women any hope of justice.” Organisations such as Akshara, Bebaak Collective, Forum Against Oppression of Women, and Mahila Mandal Federation, along with lawyers like Indira Jaisingh, Susan Abraham, and Maharukh Adenwalla sent a five-page letter to the CM on December 11. On the point of ‘presumption of consent’, the letter pointed out, “The amendment which seeks to add explanation 3 to Section 375 (rape) of the Indian Penal Code where parties are adults and the conduct of such parties from all circumstances surrounding the same appears that there was consent or implied consent or a presumption of consent will be made, negates the entire definition of consent under Section 375 and the offence of rape itself. This is a step back from the 2013 amendments in the Verma Committee report where the definition of consent was added.” Referring to ‘death penalty’, the letter said that the proposed enhancement in the punishment for rape, gang rape, and penetrated sexual assault against children to include death penalty would be counter-productive to women and contrary to the statement and object of the law. The five-page letter highlighted that studies had shown that more than half of the total offences under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act were committed by persons known to the children. “In such cases, the possibility of the accused person being awarded the death sentence multiplies the conflict and the trauma faced by the victims and is most likely to prevent the reporting of such crimes. Even in cases of adult woman, if she is related to the accused and has an apprehension that he would be awarded the death penalty, the family of the victim and her relatives would not support her in reporting the case and on the contrary would actively dissuade her or even turn hostile during the trial.” Talking about ‘dangerous for rape survivors’, the letter said, “The provision of death penalty would in fact result in endangering lives of survivors as we have seen recently that several incidents of rapes are followed by the rapists killing the victim, as there is no difference between the sentence for rape and that for murder.” On ‘false cases’, the letter contended that the section that punishes for filing “false complaints” or providing “false information” regarding sexual and other offences against women is solely with the intention to humiliate, extort, threaten or defame the accused. “We strongly believe that this provision is contrary to the object of improving women’s safety.” As far as completing the investigation in 15 days and trial in one month is concerned, the women feared, “these will result in more botched up investigation and unjust trials. The said time frame will not be sufficient for gathering all evidence and will only become an excuse for the police to not conduct a proper investigation.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/lawyers-activists-tell-uddhav-maharashtra-shakti-bill-will-deny-women-hope-of-justice/article33318615.ece
13 December 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||PDS red tape erases Odisha’s brides||Mamita Pujari, 22, may have made Poharighat, a remote village in Odisha’s Kalahandi district, her marital home for the past three years, but in government records, she does not exist. Nor is she the only ‘invisible’ woman in the village. Soon after Ms. Pujari got married in 2017, her name was struck off the ration card in her parental home at Khairbhadi village. Her assumption that her name would be added to her husband’s card soon has been rudely challenged. Around the same time, Mangala Naik, 25, also came to Poharighat, under the Chancher gram panchayat, as a bride. Both women have since made several attempts in vain to get their names included in the ration cards belonging to their husbands’ families. In Nagjhari village, under the Sagada panchayat, Jasoda Dharua’s struggle to add her name to her husband’s card has continued for more than seven years. Neither Ms. Dharua nor her two children figure in the ration card, which deprives them of subsidised foodgrains in one of the country’s poorest districts. After marriage, Anita Majhi, 21, shifted to Talapipli, but her name continues to remain in her parents’ ration card. “I badly need the subsidised rice as my husband, who works as daily wager, cannot meet all needs. I too cannot go to my parents’ house to collect my share of rice,” a desperate Ms. Majhi says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/pds-red-tape-erases-odishas-brides/article33318632.ece
13 December 2020||Hyderabad,||KCR presses for Telangana’s rights||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao during his 50-minute meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi in New Delhi on Saturday is reported to have handed over 22 representations, including some of the aspects under the A.P. Reorganisation Act. In the memoranda, he is reported to have sought immediate release of Rs. 450 crore, pending instalment under backward districts development programme. He is reported to have pressed for revival of Cement Corporation of India unit at Adilabad and increase in strength of judges in TS High Court from 24 to 42. He wanted the Centre to fund Rs. 19,205 crore for Mission Bhagiratha and Rs. 5,000 crore for Mission Kakatiya as per recommendations of NITI Aayog.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kcr-presses-for-telanganas-rights/article33318405.ece
13 December 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi govt. officials to inspect transplant site||Delhi government officials will be inspecting the NTPC Eco Park where 274 trees, uprooted to make way for the new Parliament building, have been transplanted by the Central Public Works Department (CPWD). The transplantation was done in violation of the approval given by the Delhi government, according to which the trees were to be transplanted near the existing Parliament, close to the India Gate area. The CPWD has also requested for a one-year extension for compensatory plantation of 4,040 trees. It further sought for the plantation to be done at the Eco Park, instead of near the existing Parliament and India Gate as per the Delhi government approval.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/delhi-govt-officials-to-inspect-transplant-site/article33318630.ece
13 December 2020||New Delhi,||India set to exceed climate targets: Modi||India was not only on track to fulfilling its climate commitments but would go further, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said at the Climate Action Summit on Saturday. However, he refrained from announcing enhanced ambitions or targets. The online event was organised to mark five years since the signing of the Paris Agreement, in which 190 countries committed to taking action to limit global temperature from rising beyond 2 degrees Celsius. ‘Rise in renewables’ In his five-minute address, Mr. Modi said India had reduced its emissions intensity by 21% since 2005. Installed solar capacity had grown to 36 gigawatt in 2020. The country’s renewable energy capacity was the fourth largest in the world and would reach 175GW before 2022. “We have an even more ambitious target, 450GW of energy capacity by 2030. We have also succeeded in increasing forest cover,” he added. India had pioneered the International Solar Alliance as well as the Coalition for Disaster Relief, he said. “In 2047, India will celebrate 100 years as an independent modern nation. Centennial India will not only meet its own targets but also exceed expectations,” Mr. Modi said. He was among the several heads of state — including Chinese President Xi Jinping and Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan — to address the meeting. India has announced its Nationally Determined Contribution of reducing emissions intensity of GDP by 33-35% by 2030 along with its renewable energy and forest cover targets. India, however, didn't announce new goals on Saturday. Mr. Modi and President Ramnath Kovind earlier announced that India was planning to increase its renewable energy capacity to 450 GW by 2030.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/india-set-to-exceed-climate-targets-modi/article33318129.ece
13 December 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha’s brides go missing in ration cards||Mamita Pujari, 22, may have made Poharighat, a remote village in Odisha’s Kalahandi district, her marital home for the past three years, but in government records, she does not exist. Nor is she the only ‘invisible’ woman in the village. Soon after Ms. Pujari got married in 2017, her name was struck off the ration card in her parental home at Khairbhadi village. Her assumption that her name would be added to her husband’s card soon has been rudely challenged. Around the same time, Mangala Naik, 25, also came to Poharighat, under the Chancher gram panchayat, as a bride. Both women have since made several attempts in vain to get their names included in the ration cards belonging to their husbands’ families. In Nagjhari village, under the Sagada panchayat, Jasoda Dharua’s struggle to add her name to her husband’s card has continued for more than seven years. Neither Ms. Dharua nor her two children figure in the ration card, which deprives them of subsidised foodgrains in one of the country’s poorest districts. After marriage, Anita Majhi (21) shifted to Talapipli, but her name continues to remain in her parents’ ration card. “I badly need the subsidised rice as my husband, who works as daily wager, cannot meet all needs. I too cannot go to my parents’ house to collect my share of rice,” said a desperate Ms. Majhi. Many excluded Ms Majhi and the brides of Poharighat and Nagjhari are among the many women excluded from the food security net after their marriage. Raising concerns over the “erasure” of these women, activists argue that they should not be kept out of public distribution system (PDS) as it would adversely impact their health. Unclear process Kaikei Majhi, sarpanch of Talbelgaon in Kalahandi, admits, “It is fact that women after their marriage find it difficult to add their names in ration card list. But in-laws of newly married women are partly responsible for the mess. They shy away from interacting with officials. Hence, there is delay in adding their names to list.” Marriage is a primary factor for women migrating. However, the ration card management system which the State claims is completely digitised and portable, has not been able to capture these movements and ensure food security. “There is no mechanism or standard operating procedure to capture change of address of women from one fair price shop to another within the PDS system. It is done in a very informal way. Also rather than the system helping the beneficiaries to facilitate the transition, they are left to fend themselves,” said Mr. Panda. A major hurdle is the lack of procedural clarity on how names can be “ported” from one ration card to another. “There is no information on how to apply for it and how long it may take to get them added in the ration card. The government must come up with a window to address this basic issue in a time bound manner,” Mr. Panda said, pointing to the delay of several years for some of the most needy beneficiaries. While not offering a time-bound solution to the ‘automatic exclusion’ of women from the PDS after marriage, Food Supplies and Consumer Welfare and Cooperation Minister Ranendra Pratap Swain said, “I am seized of the matter. No deserving person should be left out of food security net. If situation demands, we will come up with a guideline for immediate addition of names of women in the ration cards at their respective marital villages.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/with-opaque-pds-odishas-poor-brides-fall-through-food-security-net/article33318133.ece
13 December 2020||New Delhi,||Army veterans to lay down 25,000 medals for farmers’ cause||Army veterans camping at the Singhu border, the heart of the farmers’ agitation, have collected 5,000 gallantry medals since November 26 to return to the Union government “in lieu” of a decision to repeal the three new farm laws. Predominantly hailing from Punjab and Haryana and with farming as a source of sustenance now, the veterans said on Saturday that they planned to collect 25,000 medals over the next two days. Lakhs more are on their way to the protest site, they added. “I come from a family of jawans (soldiers) andkisans(farmers), which have eight martyrs either in war or at the border. I was proud of that fact, but because of what the government is doing to us now, it has begun feeling like this country is no longer worth living in, leave alone to die for,” said retired Havaldar Balwant Singh, 80, from Jhajjar in Haryana. “We have been here since the 26th [of November] and the government, instead of listening to us cry, is busy finding ways to force upon us these black laws created by people in air-conditioned rooms.” Retired Subedar S.P. Singh from Gurdaspur said some six farmers were detained when they had attempted to meet President Ram Nath Kovind to return a small batch of medals last week. Retired Havaldar Bartar Singh from Patiala alleged that the group of veterans was detained for two whole days and their phones and belongings were confiscated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/army-veterans-to-lay-down-25000-medals-for-farmers-cause/article33318292.ece
13 December 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi officials to inspect transplant site||Delhi government officials will be inspecting the NTPC Eco Park where 274 trees, uprooted to make way for the new Parliament building, have been transplanted by the Central Public Works Department (CPWD). The transplantation was done in violation of the approval given by the Delhi government, according to which the trees were to be transplanted near the existing Parliament, close to the India Gate area. The CPWD has also requested for a one-year extension for compensatory plantation of 4,040 trees. “It is not feasible to complete compensatory afforestation by January 2021 as the land needs to be developed... Completion by revised date of 31.01.2022,” read a letter by the CPWD dated December 3.  It further sought for the plantation to be done at the Eco Park, instead of near the existing Parliament and India Gate as per the Delhi government approval.  On November 25,The Hinduhad reported how trees from a plot next to the current Parliament are being transplanted at the Eco Park, about 22 km away, in violation of the approval given by the Delhi government. Citing the news article, the Delhi government had sent a show-cause notice to the CPWD. “Violation of the conditions of the approval can attract a fine of up to Rs. 10,000. But the fine will increase if any tree has died due to this violation,” a Delhi government official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/delhi-officials-to-inspect-transplant-site/article33318289.ece
13 December 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha’s brides go missing in ration cards||Mamita Pujari, 22, may have made Poharighat, a remote village in Odisha’s Kalahandi district, her marital home for the past three years, but in government records, she does not exist. Nor is she the only ‘invisible’ woman in the village. Soon after Ms. Pujari got married in 2017, her name was struck off the ration card in her parental home at Khairbhadi village. Her assumption that her name would be added to her husband’s card soon has been rudely challenged. Around the same time, Mangala Naik, 25, also came to Poharighat, under the Chancher gram panchayat, as a bride. Both women have since made several attempts in vain to get their names included in the ration cards belonging to their husbands’ families. In Nagjhari village, under the Sagada panchayat, Jasoda Dharua’s struggle to add her name to her husband’s card has continued for more than seven years. Neither Ms. Dharua nor her two children figure in the ration card, which deprives them of subsidised foodgrains in one of the country’s poorest districts.  After marriage, Anita Majhi, 21, shifted to Talapipli, but her name continues to remain in her parents’ ration card. “I badly need the subsidised rice as my husband, who works as daily wager, cannot meet all needs. I too cannot go to my parents’ house to collect my share of rice,” a desperate Ms. Majhi says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/odishas-brides-go-missing-in-ration-cards/article33318291.ece
13 December 2020||December 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Veterans to return 25,000 medals||Army veterans camping at the Singhu border have collected 5,000 gallantry medals since November 26 to return to the Centre “in lieu” of a decision to repeal the three new farm laws. Predominantly hailing from Punjab and Haryana and with farming as a source of sustenance now, the veterans said they planned to collect 25,000 medals over the next two days. Lakhs more were on their way to the protest site, they added. The veterans said they were “hurt” by the treatment being meted out by the government to the protesters.page 11||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/veterans-to-return-medals/article33318118.ece
13 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||All districts report fewer than 100 cases||The State reported three COVID deaths and 510 new infections in the past day as of Saturday morning. The toll increased to 7,052 and the infection tally increased to 8,75,205. Each of the three new deaths were reported from Guntur, Kadapa and Visakhapatnam districts, while the overall death rate remains at 0.81%. Meanwhile, 665 patients recovered in the past day taking the total number of recoveries till date to 8,62,895. The recovery rate stands at 98.59% and the number of active cases in the State slightly came down to 5,078. The number of samples being tested daily has increased over the past few days, and in the last 24 hours, 67,495 samples with a daily positivity rate of 0.75% were tested. So far, 1.07 crore samples were tested and their positivity rate was 8.13%. The total number of samples tested in the State is now more than 20% of the 5.34 crore population as the tests per million ratio crossed two lakh mark and reached 2,01,631 a day ago. While all the districts reported less than 100 new cases, Chittoor reported highest single-day tally of 89 new infections. Krishna reported 82 new infections, Guntur reported 74 and West Godavari reported 60 new infections. The other districts which reported not more than 50 new infections include East Godavari (47), Prakasam (34), Kurnool (22), Kadapa (21), Visakhapatnam (18), Anantapur (17), Vizianagaram (17), Nellore (17) and Srikakulam (12). The district COVID tallies are as follows: East Godavari (1,22,947), West Godavari (93,286), Chittoor (84,742), Guntur (73,875), Prakasam (61,763), Nellore (61,753), Kurnool (60,376), Visakhapatnam (58,613), Kadapa (54,629), Krishna (46,625), Srikakulam (45,683) and Vizianagaram (40,849). Krishna (889), Guntur (825), East Godavari (650) and Chittoor (488) together have more than 56% of the total active cases in the State. The remaining nine districts have less than 44% active cases. Vizianagaram has lowest number of active cases as 89 and was only district with less than 100 active cases currently.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/all-districts-report-fewer-than-100-cases/article33318124.ece
13 December 2020||HYDERABAD,||Healthcare workers top vaccine priority list||High-risk groups will be given priority during COVID-19 vaccination as initial supply of vaccine is anticipated to be limited. In an order issued on Friday, principal secretary of State Health and Family Welfare department Syed Ali Murtaza Rizvi stated that healthcare workers are at the top of the list followed by frontline workers from other departments such as local bodies and police personnel. “Similarly, priority may need to be accorded to people with co-morbidities,” he said. On Friday, Mr. Rizvi said that the government has begun preparations for possible introduction of COVID-19 vaccine, and that the vaccine introduction is likely to span over a year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/healthcare-workers-top-vaccine-priority-list/article33318434.ece
13 December 2020||Bengaluru,||Workers go on rampage at iPhone factory||Thousands of workers at Wistron Infocomm Manufacturing (India), which is part of the Taipei-based Wistron Corporation manufacturing iPhones at its Narasapura plant on the outskirts of Bengaluru, went on a rampage and ransacked the factory premises over alleged delays in the payment of salaries and overtime wages. A source said the protest began shortly after the workers ended their shift, but took a violent turn by 6 a.m. on Saturday. Workers alleged that they had not been paid salary or overtime wages for three to four months. Things came to a head as violence erupted and company property, including furniture, fans, lights and television sets, was ransacked. A car parked on the factory premises was set on fire. The Vemagal police probing the violence arrested 125 people involved in the violence. “As many as 10 complaints have been taken up, and over 300 people have been detained for questioning,” a senior police officer said. The company has around 15,000 employees, but only 1,400 are actually on the rolls. The rest are contract workers. Sudipto Gupta, MD of Wistron, said: “We have no comments at the moment.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/workers-go-on-rampage-at-iphone-factory/article33318176.ece
13 December 2020||Mumbai,||Woman held with over 1 kg mephedrone||A 25-year-old woman allegedly with 1.105 kg of mephedrone worth Rs. 1.10 crore in the illicit market was arrested by the Mumbai Crime Branch’s anti narcotics cell, an official said on Saturday. She was held in a trap set up on Shaida Road in Dongri on Friday evening. “At the time, we found 60 grams of mephedrone on her. We raided her house and seized another 1.045 kg of the drug as well as Rs. 8.78 lakh in cash,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/woman-held-with-over-1-kg-mephedrone/article33318616.ece
13 December 2020||December 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Braving the cold||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/braving-the-cold/article33318527.ece
13 December 2020||Tirumala,||Tokens for Vaikunta Dwara darshan||Enabling the common devotees have Vaikunta Dwara darshanam at the temple of Lord Venkateswara at Tirumala, the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams has decided to provide darshan tokens from December 24. About 10,000 darshan tokens will be provided every day on first-come-first-serve basis at TTD counters in Tirupati. Darshan for 10 days Yielding to the mounting demands from the devout, the TTD recently resolved to extend Vaikunta Dwara darshanam for 10 days on a par with other Sri Vaishnavite temples as against the existing practice of observing it for two days. The TTD released about two lakh special entry darshan tickets of Rs. 300 each for all the 10 days on Friday that got exhausted the same evening. Seniors, children allowed In another significant development, the TTD resolved to permit senior citizens aged above 65 years as well as children below 10 years for darshan of the deity in strict adherence to COVID-19 protocols provided they came with their own assessment and arrangements. No privileges of any kind would be extended from the temple administration. The decision it said was taken owing to the pouring in requests from devotees to enable them fulfil their long pending vows like tonsuring, ear boring and Annapraasana for infants in addition to Shastipoorthi and Satabhishekams for the elderly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tokens-for-vaikunta-dwara-darshan-from-december-24/article33318119.ece
13 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Committed to welfare of farmers: PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday said the government is committed to the welfare of farmers through “ niti aur niyat ” (policy and intention), adding that the aim of the reforms is to help them increase their income. Speaking at the 93rd annual general meeting of the industry body FICCI, Mr. Modi said the reforms will open up new markets for farmers. Mr. Modi said in a vibrant economy, when one sector grows, it has a direct impact on other sectors as well. However, unnecessary walls between industries were hampering growth, and reforms being undertaken will remove these walls. “The agriculture reforms are part of this process. We have seen such walls between agriculture and allied sectors such as agriculture infrastructure, food processing, and cold chains. We are now removing these walls,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/committed-to-welfare-of-farmers-pm/article33318134.ece
13 December 2020||Bengaluru,||RTC workers threaten to launch fast||The stand-off between transport corporation workers and the government continued with the protesters threatening to launch a fast from Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rtc-workers-threaten-to-launch-fast/article33318172.ece
13 December 2020||Bengaluru,||Nothing can be predicted in politics, says HDK||Amidst speculation that he was increasingly going “soft” on BJP, JD(S) leader H.D. Kumaraswamy did not rule out the possibility of a tie-up between the two parties in future. However, he denied the possibility of a merger.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/nothing-can-be-predicted-in-politics-says-hdk/article33318173.ece
13 December 2020||Bengaluru,||'Many members wanted Council to be adjourned'||Dismissing the charge by BJP members that he behaved in an “unconstitutional” manner by adjourning the winter session of the Housesine dieon Thursday, Legislative Council chairman K. Prathapchandra Shetty said that several members wanted the House adjourned to campaign for the GP polls.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/many-members-wanted-council-to-be-adjourned/article33318174.ece
13 December 2020||new delhi,||Delhi records 1,935 new COVID cases, 47 deaths||The Capital reported 1,935 new COVID-19 cases in the last 24 hours, taking the total to 6,05,470 on Saturday. The death toll has reached 9,981 after 47 more fatalities were recorded in a single day. The test positivity of COVID-19 cases was 2.64% on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/delhi-records-1935-new-covid-cases-47-deaths/article33318287.ece
13 December 2020||JAIPUR,||Gujjars demand Parliament session||Gujjars in Rajasthan, demanding reservation in jobs and education, have sought the Centre’s intervention for Ninth Schedule protection to a 2019 State law which accords Most Backward Class category for the community.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/gujjars-demand-parliament-session/article33318288.ece
13 December 2020||Kolkata,||Centre-Bengal clash on IPS deputation||The Trinamool Congress on Saturday alleged that the Centre was pressuring the West Bengal police and bureaucracy. The party cited a Union Home Ministry letter asking the State government to send three IPS officers on Central deputation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/centre-bengal-clash-on-ips-deputation/article33318525.ece
13 December 2020||Mangaluru,||Batpady residents still cut off from mainland||Despite the fact that about 20 families and other residents have remained cut off from the mainland for nearly six months at the Batpady end point near the Karnataka-Kerala border, the authorities have not restored the fisheries road washed away by sea erosion in July.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/batpady-residents-still-cut-off-from-mainland/article33318595.ece
13 December 2020||Bengaluru,||Nothing can be predicted in politics, says HDK||The Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption conduc- ted raids in 16 Regional Transport Office checkposts and one police checkpost in the border districts of Tamil Nadu on Saturday. Close to Rs. 9.18 lakh of unaccounted money was seized.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/over-rs-9-lakh-seized-in-dvac-raids-at-checkposts/article33318219.ece
13 December 2020||Chennai,||Tamil Isai Sangam to webcast music festival||The 78th annual Isai Vizha of Tamil Isai Sangam will begin on December 21, but COVID-19 necessitated its conversion to a virtual event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tamil-isai-sangam-to-webcast-music-festival/article33318580.ece
13 December 2020||JAIPUR,||Gujjars demand Parliament session||Gujjars in Rajasthan, demanding reservation in jobs and education, have sought the Centre’s intervention for Ninth Schedule protection to a 2019 State law which accords Most Backward Class category for the community.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/gujjars-demand-parliament-session/article33318628.ece
13 December 2020||Mumbai,||Sharad Pawar pillar of MVA government: CM||Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Saturday greeted Nationalist Congress Party president Sharad Pawar on his 80th birthday and described him as the pillar of the Maha Vikas Aghadi government.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sharad-pawar-pillar-of-mva-government-cm/article33318617.ece
13 December 2020||Bengaluru,||'Many members wanted Council to be adjourned'||Dismissing the charge by BJPmembers that he had behaved in an“unconstitutional” manner by adjourning the winter session of the House sine die on Thursday, Legislative Council chairman K. Prathapchandra Shetty said that several members wanted the House adjourned to spend time campaigning for the gram panchayat polls. He said there was no listed agenda on the government’s side for continuing the session and so the House was adjourned on December 10.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/many-members-wanted-council-to-be-adjourned/article33318390.ece
13 December 2020||CHENNAI,||31 districts report less than 50 new cases||On a day when another 1,218 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu, 31 of the 37 districts had less than 50 new cases each. There were no new cases in Ariyalur, while seven districts had fresh cases in single digits. This included Kallakurichi and Ramanathapuram that had one case each, while Perambalur had two cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-reports-1218-fresh-covid-19-cases/article33318216.ece
13 December 2020||DHARMAPURI,||Four killed in road accident at Thoppur||Four persons were killed and five others grievously injured in a pile-up involving 15 vehicles in the Thoppur Ghat on Saturday. The pile-up occurred after a speeding truck rammed vehicles that had slowed down because of an earlier accident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/four-die-in-multi-vehicle-collision-at-thoppur/article33318218.ece
13 December 2020||December 13 2020 00:00 IST,||The bid to remake the face of the capital||On December 10, a little over a year after the government announced its ambitious plan to redevelop the 3-km-long historical stretch from the Rashtrapati Bhavan to India Gate known as the Central Vista, Prime Minister Narendra Modi kicked off the first part of the project by laying the foundation stone for the new Parliament building. While the bhoomi pujan, performed by Mr. Modi, marked the beginning of the project, construction will only start after the Supreme Court disposes of all challenges to the project that are pending before it. Ever since Housing and Urban Affairs Minister Hardeep Puri announced the project in September 2019, activists, environmentalists, architects and Opposition leaders have questioned the need for the project, the processes for obtaining approvals for it and the costs involved. The Supreme Court on December 7 allowed the government to go ahead with the foundation stone ceremony, but only after the Centre gave an affidavit, saying there would be no construction, demolition and cutting of trees till the court gives its rulings in the cases. The plan, as drafted by Ahmedabad-based HCP Design, Planning and Management, involves constructing a triangular shaped Parliament building adjacent to the existing one that was built in the 1920s by the British; demolishing the post-Independence office buildings along the Central Vista and replacing them with 10 modern multi-storey office complexes to house all Ministries; and revamping the civic infrastructure and facilities for the Republic Day parade on Rajpath. The need for the project, according to the government’s arguments in court and Mr. Puri’s public statements in the past year, is that the existing Parliament House is almost 100 years old, structurally unsafe, and lacks adequate workspace for a modern legislature. Similarly, the 10 new office buildings proposed are required to bring all Central Ministries in one place, making the functioning of the government more efficient, according to the government. Space for more MPs Another reason touted by the government is the expected increase in number of constituencies after delimitation, which is frozen till the first Census after 2026, which will be in 2031. The Parliament House now would not be able to accommodate additional MPs, the government has maintained. Apart from the more practical reasons given, Mr. Modi’s speech at the groundbreaking ceremony invoked symbolism of a new Parliament as a temple of democracy, built by an Independent and Atmanirbhar India. He asked Indians to to pledge to keep “India First”. The design of the new building will also reflect that, with the national emblem crowning the structure; the national bird, peacock, and the national flower, lotus, providing inspiration for the interiors of the Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha chambers, respectively; and arts and crafts from across the country being represented. In a written statement to The Hindu , HCP Design, which is headed by Padma Shri-awardee Bimal Patel, said: “The proposed Parliament building will be the first purpose-designed building for the Parliament of India. Presently, Parliament is accommodated in a building that was built as the council house for the Raj.” Spread over 64,500 sq. ft of built-up area, the new building will have a Lok Sabha chamber with the capacity to seat 1,272 and a Rajya Sabha chamber with 384 seats and a Central Constitutional Gallery that will be open to the public. Offices for all MPs will be built after demolishing the existing Shram Shakti Bhawan and connected to Parliament via an underground pathway. The project was awarded to Tata Projects for Rs. 971 crore after a two-step bid process earlier this year. The construction is expected to take 22 months and is scheduled to finish in time for the Winter Session of Parliament in 2022, when India marks 75 years of Independence. Critics of the project have questioned the timing, given that the economy is still reeling under the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. Congress president Sonia Gandhi was among those who urged the government to suspend the project and reallocate the funds to healthcare needs. Mr. Puri has responded by saying the project will lead to employment generation and an increase in economic activity. Another concern raised by environmentalists has been the quick process of approvals and cutting of trees, some of which are 80 to 90 years old. Recently, the Delhi Forest Department issued a notice to the Central Public Works Department (CPWD), which is carrying out the project, for violating the conditions of the approval to cut trees. In response to the questions raised and the Supreme Court’s decision not to allow construction for now, Housing and Urban Affairs Secretary Durga Shanker Mishra told The Hindu that all the legal processes had been followed. He said he was hopeful that the court would give its decisions soon. The project, he said, was for all Indians, not any individual. Preparatory works While the CPWD waits for the court’s nod, preparatory works have been on for months. The iconic statue of Mahatma Gandhi facing the entrance of Parliament is being shifted to make way for sound-proofing walls. The other components of the plan are at the planning stage, according to government officials. The CPWD has floated a request for proposals for the redevelopment of the Central Vista Avenue, the last date for which is December 14. The design of the 10 new Secretariat buildings is yet to be finalised; however, it is likely that construction of one of the buildings on the plot that the Indira Gandhi National Centre for the Arts (IGNCA) occupies may start first. The IGNCA is being shifted to the Janpath Hotel temporarily, before a new campus is developed. The fourth part of the plan, which was not a part of the CPWD’s requirements when it asked for designs from prospective consultants but was included nonetheless by the winning bidder, HCP, is the construction of a new Prime Minister’s Office, PM’s Residence and Vice-President’s Enclave. These buildings are expected to be located near South and North Blocks, on land that is currently housing defence offices in temporary structures called hutments. The process of relocating the defence personnel is on, with new buildings being constructed outside the Vista. The government is yet to publicly state the cost of the entire project. However, sources say, it could cost at least Rs. 11,000 crore and take up to six years to complete. While it may not be clear yet how much of a dent the project will make on the exchequer, once it is completed, the skyline of Lutyens’ Delhi will be changed forever.  In Focus  Spread over 64,500 sq. ft of built-up area, the new Parliament building will have Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha chambers and a Central Constitutional Gallery that will be open to the public  The construction is expected to take 22 months and is scheduled to finish in time for the Winter Session of Parliament in 2022, when India marks 75 years of Independence  The plan also includes building new Secretariat buildings, a Prime Minister’s Office, PM’s Residence and Vice-President’s Enclave   While the bhoomi pujan marked the beginning of the project, construction will start only after the Supreme Court takes a decision on the challenges before it to the project||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/the-bid-to-remake-the-face-of-the-capital/article33318097.ece
13 December 2020||Bengaluru,||Bringing life back to Western Ghats grasslands||Tropical montane grasslands (TMG) in the Shola Sky Islands of the Western Ghats have suffered big reductions due to invasions by exotic trees such as acacias, pines and eucalyptus, shrinking the range sizes of endemic species, including plants, birds, amphibians and mammals. Some populations are being driven to local extinction. But researchers have now identified areas suitable for grassland restoration and conservation to reverse the decline. Reporting on their study titled ‘Opportunities and challenges in using remote sensing for invasive tree species management, and in the identification of restoration sites in tropical montane grasslands’ earlier this month in Science Direct, M. Arasumani, V.V. Robin and Milind Bunyan from the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER), Tirupati, and Ashoka Trust for Research in Ecology and the Environment (ATREE), Bengaluru lay out the possibilities. They focus on identifying grassland restoration sites using satellite images with a high spatial resolution (RapidEye), and have recommended careful removal of young and isolated exotic trees at the invasion front and restoring grasslands, instead of removing dense stands of mature exotic trees. TMG are high elevation grasslands forming only 2% of all grasslands in the world. Among their functions is regulating the global carbon cycle and serving as a source of water to downstream communities. Researchers say grasslands do not benefit from conservation and restoration efforts afforded to tropical montane forests, possibly due to limited information. “In India, TMG have even been classified as wastelands in forest management plans since they are unlikely to generate revenue, contrary to the timber (even if exotic) found in forests,” the study says. Loss of grasslands due to invasive exotic trees is a “novel threat” through the establishment and expansion of exotic tree plantations. In the Western Ghats, 23% of montane grasslands were reportedly converted into invasive exotic tree cover over a period of 44 years. Attempts to manage invasive exotic trees in montane grasslands incorporated approaches that include prevention and mechanical, chemical and biological control. “For invasive species such as Acacia mearnsii that grow rapidly and disperse seeds widely, removing mature trees is often ineffective. An approach that targets the removal of young exotic trees would be more effective. Similarly, restoring grasslands where isolated but mature trees exist in grassland patches could be an easy way to restrict further dispersal,” the researchers say. “Our study identified an area of 254 sq km for grassland restoration, 362 sq km of intact montane grasslands for conservation, and 606 sq km of mature exotic tree stands in the Nilgiris, Palani Hills and Anamalai. Most of the areas suitable for montane grassland restoration were located in the Nilgiris (126 sq km), followed by the Palani Hills (73 sq km), and the Anamalai (55 sq km). The largest areas for grassland restoration were in reserve forests (87 sq km), followed by wildlife sanctuaries (60 sq km) and national parks,” the study says. The Palani Hills and Anamalai lost grasslands due to invasive species, Mr. Bunyan told The Hindu . Most of these species were planted, but that programme was stopped around the 1990s, and since then, they were purely invasive, he explained. The species have a very high seed bank, about which nothing can be done, but cutting them will require multiple cycles, he added. The study also throws light on policies for grasslands, which are seen as having no productive use, as is often alleged in the case of the Hesaraghatta grasslands in Bengaluru. “Grasslands are not wastelands. Though they are not being put to use, we are benefiting in other ways - such as serving as pasture. In the Sholas, they are responsible for hydrological recharge,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bringing-life-back-to-western-ghats-grasslands/article33318049.ece
13 December 2020||New Delhi,||Farmers are sacrificing their lives, says Rahul||“How many more sacrifices would it take from our farmer brothers to repeal the farm laws,” asked former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Twitter. He shared photographs of 11 farmers who reportedly died in the past 17 days of the farmers’ agitation. The party also accused Cabinet Ministers of branding every opponent of the government as Maoists and traitors. The Opposition party’s allegation against Cabinet Ministers branding opponents as Maoists came after Railway, Food and Consumer Affairs Minister Piyush Goyal, in an interview, alleged that certain Leftist and Maoist elements seemed to have “taken control” of the agitation and were pursuing their own agenda instead of discussing farmers’ issues. ‘Casting aspersions’ Former Punjab Congress head Partap Singh Bajwa said, “I am also extremely disappointed with the fact that Cabinet Ministers are attempting to cast unfounded aspersions on the motivations of the protesters. In a tense environment, such statements would harm any efforts to build trust between Indians and the government. The farmers have been peacefully protesting since September and have followed the highest ideals of democratic dissent.” In a series of tweets, Congress general secretary Randeep Surjewala alleged that the Modi government was refusing to listen to the farmers despite so many of dying during the agitation. He accused the government of standing with its dhandaata (funder) instead of annadaata (farmer) despite so many deaths. No to autocracy “Modi ji, autocracy has no place in democracy. The policy of you and your Ministers is to declare every opponent as Maoist and a traitor. Please apologise and accept the demands of the annadaata (farmer) who are sitting on dharna amidst biting cold and rain,” Mr. Surjewala said in another tweet, tagging Mr. Goyal’s interview.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/farmers-are-sacrificing-their-lives-says-rahul/article33318071.ece
13 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||NFHS finds jump in vaccination||The Health Ministry on Saturday released partial data from the fifth edition of the National Family Health Survey (NFHS) claiming “considerable improvement” in the supply of vaccine for childhood immunisation from the fourth round in 2015-16. A quick perusal of the data showed that in Andhra Pradesh, the percentage of fully vaccinated children (12-23 months) jumped to 73% from 65% in the fourth edition. However, children with diarrhoea in the two weeks preceding the survey also jumped to 7.2% from 6.6%. In West Bengal, institutional births of children increased from 75% to 91% and in Gujarat, the proportion of anaemic children sharply increased from 62.6% to 79.7% 12 States to be covered Like other versions, the newest edition too has information on population, health and nutrition for India, and is based on statistics gleaned from 6.1 lakh households. The results from 17 States and five Union Territories (Assam, Bihar, Manipur, Meghalaya, Sikkim, Tripura, Andhra Pradesh, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Gujarat, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu & Kashmir, Ladakh, Karnataka, Goa, Maharashtra, Telangana, West Bengal, Mizoram, Kerala, Lakshadweep, Dadra Nagar Haveli and Daman & Diu) were released on Saturday under Phase-I. Phase II, covering the remaining 12 States and two UTs, had their field work suspended due to COVID-19. This was resumed in November and is expected to be completed by May 2021. Health indicators up “Substantial improvement in maternal and child health indicators over NFHS-4 was recorded in the present survey. The fertility rate has further declined, and contraceptive use has increased in most Phase I States. The survey found considerable improvement in vaccination coverage among children aged 12-23 months across all States/UTs. Women’s empowerment indicators (including women with bank account) also portray considerable progress,” a press statement from the Health Ministry noted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nfhs-finds-jump-in-vaccination/article33318084.ece
13 December 2020||December 13 2020 00:00 IST,||From General to Secretary||Last week, U.S. President-elect Joe Biden nominated retired General Lloyd Austin for the crucial post of Secretary of Defense. If confirmed, the four-star General will become the first black person in the role. Gen. Austin’s name was chosen over several other possible candidates, including senior Pentagon official Michèle Flournoy and Obama-era Homeland Security Secretary Jeh Johnson, who is also African-American. Explaining his pick in the Atlantic , Mr. Biden said the General had “met every challenge with extraordinary skill and profound personal decency” in his more than 40 years in the U.S. Army. The two have a close and tested relationship from their Obama administration years — a factor that has played into the selection process. Mr. Biden argued that Gen. Austin is the person the country needed now because his experience and intimate knowledge of the Department of Defense made him uniquely match to the current challenges facing the country. Immediately following his appointment, Gen. Austin will need to oversee an effort to equitably distribute COVID-19 vaccines across the country. In this context, Mr. Biden cited the General’s experience in withdrawing U.S. troops from Iraq (in 2011), the largest logistical operation undertaken by the Army in six decades as per Mr. Biden. However, as with any high-profile candidate, Gen. Austin’s record does not come free of criticism. This has included the expansion of the Islamic State (IS) in Iraq and Syria on the General’s watch when he led the U.S. Central Command (2013-16), overseeing West Asia operations. The criticism extended to Gen. Austin’s testimony during a 2015 Senate hearing on the training of a relatively small number of Syrian soldiers to fight the IS at a disproportionately high cost of $500 million. There were also allegations that the IS threat was downplayed, but Gen. Austin’s command was cleared of any wrongdoing. “He is a true and tested soldier and leader. I’ve spent countless hours with him, in the field and in the White House Situation Room. I’ve sought his advice, seen his command, and admired his calm and his character,” Mr. Biden wrote in the Atlantic . The President-elect said the General would promote diversity and look after the families of soldiers — an issue close to Mr. Biden’s heart, whose late son, Beau, was deployed to Iraq (and worked as staff lawyer on General Austin’s team). Instrument of last resort “Above all, I chose Lloyd Austin as my nominee for Secretary of Defense because I know how he reacts under pressure,” wrote Mr. Biden. Gen. Austin understood that force was an instrument of the last resort, Mr. Biden said. During his acceptance speech, Gen. Austin said he understood the importance of working with allies. Some, especially conservatives and centrist Democrats, have argued that while there is much in favour of his candidacy, Gen. Austin is not quite the man for the moment. Critics say that he is not best placed to deal with the challenge of China, which many on both sides of aisle in Washington feel is the most important national security issue facing the U.S. The bulk of Gen. Austin’s experience has been in Afghanistan, Central and West Asia. The 2018 National Defense Strategy explicitly listed ‘great power competition’ with China and Russia as a primary focus — Gen. Austin does not, arguably, have adequate background experience in either region. Post-retirement, Gen. Austin joined the board of arms manufacturer Raytheon — a position he is likely to be questioned on this during his confirmation — a process that will also require a Congressional waiver as the law requires a seven-year post-military cool-off period. Congress only recently gave President Donald Trump’s former Defense Secretary Jim Mattis a waiver and it is by no means a given that Gen. Austin will get one too. Some commentators and lawmakers are concerned that having a former General (again) fill a crucial civilian position could be detrimental to the principle of civilian control of the military. Gen. Austin said he went from being General Lloyd Austin to Lloyd Austin four years ago. “It is an important distinction and one that I make with utmost seriousness and sincerity,” he said. He will need to convince Congress of this.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/from-general-to-secretary/article33318099.ece
13 December 2020||December 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Higher than the Himalayas||When Nepal and China were discussing the fate of Mount Everest in their border negotiations in the early 1960s, then Prime Minister B.P. Koirala told Mao Zedong the peak lay fully in Nepal. “But you do not even have a name for it in your language, and you call it Mount Everest,” Mao told him (although Nepal did, calling the mountain Sagarmatha). Koirala replied, “You do not have a name for the peak either,” referring to the Tibetan name of Qomolongma, used in China. Mao retorted, “Tibet is China”. While the fate of the peak was eventually settled by the two — the border, it was decided, would pass right through, and the summit can be accessed from both Nepal and Tibet — the exchange between Koirala and Mao, recounted in the Kathmandu Post earlier this year, serves a reminder of the long and emotive history of the world’s tallest mountain, a story that involves the complicated 20th century dynamics between British India, Nepal, Tibet and China. For China, the status of Everest, as Mao declared, was also inextricably linked to the sensitive issue of the status of Tibet. ‘Peak of friendship’ Six decades on after the boundary negotiations, the story took another step towards resolution on December 8, when Nepal and China jointly announced the new height of Mount Everest as 8,848.86 meters in a high-profile virtual ceremony — 86 cm taller than the widely accepted previous height, which was calculated by the Survey of India in 1954. “A peak of friendship”, declared China’s Xi Jinping, while Mahendra Bahadur Pandey, Nepal’s Ambassador to Beijing, told China’s official media how the Nepal-China relationship, which turned 65 this year, was “harmonious and trustworthy”. The joint height resolved a three-metre difference in how Nepal and China calculated the peak. A previous calculation by China in 2005 placed the peak at 8,844 metres, while Nepal said it was closer to 8,847 metres. The difference was attributed to China calculating the “rock height” underneath the snow and Nepal using the “snow height” which included the snowcap. In truth, there was little real need for a joint survey. Indeed, Nepal’s media had reported that Nepal had by 2019 almost completed its two-year-long survey, so much so that some of its officials were taken aback when the government decided, during Mr. Xi’s October 2019 visit, to announce a joint survey, all aimed at showing how both sides were, by coming to a consensus about their past, taking a big stride into a future of closer relations. Sentiment about Everest remains strong in both countries. Earlier this year, China’s English-language State broadcaster, China Global Television Network, caused a stir among Nepal’s media by describing the peak as being “located in China’s Tibet Autonomous Region”. Media suspected some new cartographic aggression, although it was, most likely, a carelessly worded tweet that ignored the joint claim to a peak that sits right on the border. The tweet was then deleted. Tourism value While Nepal has been the preferred route to the summit for climbers, in part because it is much easier to access than Tibet that requires a permit for foreigners, China has increasingly been pushing hard to capitalise on the tourism value of the peak. The joint height may help its cause, according to Ang Tsering Sherpa, former president of the Nepal Mountaineering Association, who was quoted as saying by the Kathmandu Post that tourism in Nepal “started to swell from 2007 when China started issuing Everest climbing certificates stating the height as 8,844.57 metres against 8,848 metres in certificates issued by Nepal for the same peak”. “Now, there will be a common height which will end all debates,” he said. Tuesday’s ceremony to announce the new height, where the two Presidents exchanged congratulatory letters and their Foreign Ministers were in attendance, served a reminder that as far as Everest is concerned, geopolitics has always accompanied matters of geography. “Higher than the Himalayas” is the somewhat over-the-top phrase used by China and Pakistan to describe their strategic relationship. In the case of Everest, Nepal and China, it, at the very least, rings factually true.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/higher-than-the-himalayas/article33318101.ece
13 December 2020||Ghaziabad,||‘New laws will create new landlords’||At the Delhi-Ghaziabad border, as the protesting farmers braved rain and bitter cold on Saturday, activist Medha Patkar and BKU leader Rakesh Tikait shared the makeshift stage on the Delhi-Meerut flyover to address them. Speaking to The Hindu , Ms. Patkar said the basic paradigm behind the three Acts was “corporatisation of agriculture”. “They will create new landlords. The laws give concessions to the agents of corporates,” the veteran of the Narmada Bachao Andolan said. On the presence of agents in the existing system, Ms. Patkar said the present system had its checks and balances but the new laws would introduce the agents of big corporates as official agents. Referring to the recent battle between PepsiCo and Gujarat’s potato farmers, Ms. Patkar said, “The freedom to stock and hoard will mean farmers will not get their due price. They will be forced to move from food crops to cash crops. So the new laws will not affect food procurement but also food production. The mechanisation of agriculture will affect the employment of farm labourers.” Lauding the unity of purpose among the farmers across States, Ms. Patkar said different farmer groups have come together for the bigger cause. “There may be differences on some issues but when it comes to the common minimum programme, we are all united. The government and a section of media are trying to divide by invoking China, Pakistan and Khalistan but they will not succeed,” she said. She said the government had reservations about talking to some groups, adding, “They might not be present during the meeting with the Ministers but they are very much part of the alliance.” Testing times On what might be playing on the government’s mind, Ms. Patkar said they were testing the farmers. “But now farmers are testing the government,” said the co-founder of the National Alliance of People’s Movements. The activist said the protest had brought those fighting for the right of farm labour on the same page as the owner-cultivator. “This is how the movements take shape. They (owner-cultivator) are not as big as Ambanis and Adanis. In our calculation of minimum support price, everybody’s share has been taken into account but the government doesn’t want to bring the MSP into the legal framework,” she said. Describing the protests as peaceful, Mr .Tikait, however, underlined that it was important for farmers to wield both jhanda and danda (flag and stick). “We don’t want to make it complicated. In 1966, when the MSP regime was introduced, a farmer could buy 10 grams of gold after selling three quintals of wheat. Make it possible, and we will go back home,” he said. The supporters are coming to terms with the ideologies of different groups. “For the bigger cause, we are protesting under one flag,” said Meghraj Solanki of the Bulandshahr unit of the All India Kisan Sabha. “At the Ghazipur border, where farmers from different districts of western U.P. are assembling, we have given the command to Mr. Tikait,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/new-laws-will-create-new-landlords/article33318067.ece
13 December 2020||NEW DELHI.,||Trump regime blocked trade deal: Jaishankar||India was “dead serious” about concluding a trade deal with the U.S. but the Trump administration decided not to, External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar said on Saturday. In comments that indicate the Modi government holds the Trump administration and his U.S. Trade Representative (USTR) responsible for the failure of the negotiations over the past two years to achieve a breakthrough, the External Affairs Minister said he hoped the Biden administration would address the outstanding trade issues now. “There was a fairly serious negotiation between our government and the Trump administration on resolving the outstanding trade issues. The general thinking on both sides was let us deal with the differences before thinking of something bigger. There was a lot of to-ing and fro-ing, lot of discussions, but for a variety of reasons they [U.S. TR] didn’t close it out,” Mr. Jaishankar said at the 93rd annual meeting of the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry. “I hope we will have very serious discussions once the [Biden] administration comes in and our Minister [Commerce Minister Piyush Goyal] is very focused on it; this is something that is very important in his agenda,” the Minister added, and said trade ties must be seen in a “strategic way”. Ties between India and the U.S. have been strengthened in a number of areas during the four-year tenure of President Donald Trump, but trade ties have been a source of tensions, after the U.S. Trade Representative took a number of actions against India for what it claimed were unfair laws and tariffs. In June 2019, just a day after Mr. Modi was sworn in for a second time, the U.S. announced a revocation of India’s Generalized System of Preferences (GSP) status that had given added benefits to Indian exports since the 1970s. Despite Mr. Goyal’s trade talks with the U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer during Mr. Modi’s visit to the U.S. last September, and talks between trade delegations ahead of Mr. Trump’s visit to India in February this year, the two sides were unable to agree on a “mini trade deal” which would include reversing the GSP decision. The negotiations included the U.S.’s demands for more market access for dairy and agricultural products and the IT industry, but despite speculation that the trade teams were close to a deal on several occasions, it never materialised. Mr. Jaishankar defended the government’s decision to levy the digital taxes, saying there was nothing wrong with India protecting its digital resources and strengths, or what is negatively termed “techno-nationalism”.  (With inputs from   Sriram Lakshman)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/trump-regime-blocked-trade-deal-jaishankar/article33318091.ece
13 December 2020||Bengaluru,||Violence at Wistron’s Bengaluru iPhone factory||Thousands of workers at Wistron Infocomm Manufacturing (India), which is part of the Taipei-based Wistron Corporation and whichmakes iPhones at its Narasapura factory on the outskirts of Bengaluru, ransacked the company premises over delays in payment of salary and overtime (OT) wages. A source said the protest began shortly after the workers’ shift ended, but took a violent turn by 6 a.m. on Saturday. The workers alleged that they had not been paid salary or overtime wages for three or four months. Things came to a head as the violence erupted and company property, including furniture, fans, lights, and television sets, were ransacked. The workers set fire to a car parked on the factory premises. A contingent of police personnel was deployed on the premises and an additional force was called in to contain the situation. About 100 people have been detained, said Seemanth Kumar Singh, IGP (Central Range). The company has around 15,000 employees, but only 1,400 are actually on the rolls. The rest are contract workers placed through five staffing firms. “The situation was tense, but it has been brought under control. We are screening CCTV footage and video clips to identify the instigators,” said a senior police officer. Initially, the company operated three shifts of eight hours each, but at present it has only two shifts of 12 hours each. That means every employee is forced to work four hours of overtime every day. According to the employees, most of them are paid in the range of Rs. 13,000 to Rs. 15,000. When contacted, Sudipto Gupta, MD of Wistron, said, “We have no comments at the moment.” Meanwhile, an employee said, “In addition to non-payment of salary, we are also facing wage cuts. So much harassment at work. Even after working all the days in the month, most of us are seeing loss of pay because the attendance system is corrupt.” Sathyanand, secretary of All-India Trade Union Congress, Bengaluru, said the industrial violence at Wistron was the direct result of the “brutal exploitation” of workers and the sweatshop-like conditions created by the company while manufacturing the world’s most expensive mobile phones.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/violence-at-wistrons-bengaluru-iphone-factory/article33318064.ece
13 December 2020||Kolkata,||Centre-Bengal clash on IPS deputation||The Trinamool Congress on Saturday alleged that the Centre was pressuring the West Bengal police and bureaucracy. The party cited a Union Home Ministry letter asking the State government to send three IPS officers on Central deputation. The officers were deployed during BJP president J.P. Nadda’s visit to the Diamond Harbour when his motorcade came under attack. On Friday, the Ministry had summoned the Chief Secretary and the Director-General of Police for a meeting in Delhi on the law-and-order situation in West Bengal, but the former sought an exemption from participation. “Now I come to another letter dated 11 December 2020, whereby you named three IPS officers for Central deputation. All the three IPS officers were deployed by 10th December 2020 nearby at the Place of Occurrence. Your motive is very clear that by taking them, you want to create pressure upon the said three police officers,” a letter written by Kalyan Banerjee, MP, to Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla on Saturday reads. Later in the day, the Trinamool Congress held a press conference stating that the Centre could send a request for Central deputation but the State had the authority whether to release the officials or not. “Provisions are quite clear: IAS/IPS officers are governed by Article 312 of the Constitution. After they are selected, they are allotted States. They are made State cadre. They may go to Centre on deputation but the Centre has to ask for names from the State government and then the State has to give them clarification... unless the State releases them, they cannot go,” Trinamool Congress leader Saugata Roy said. In his letter, Ms. Banerjee alleged political vindictiveness in the Union Home Ministry move. The BJP leadership said that Mr. Banerjee had no authority to write to the Union Home Secretary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centre-bengal-clash-on-ips-deputation/article33318073.ece
13 December 2020||New Delhi,||‘Jai Jawan, Jai Kisan’: veterans to lay down 25,000 medals for farmers’ cause||Army veterans camping at the Singhu border, the heart of the farmers’ agitation, have, since November 26, collected 5,000 gallantry medals that they seek to return “in lieu” of the Centre’s decision to repeal the three new farm laws. Predominantly hailing from Punjab and Haryana and with farming as a source of sustenance now, the veterans said they planned to collect 25,000 medals over the next two days. Lakhs more were on their way to the protest site, they added. “I come from a family of both jawans (soldiers) and kisan s (farmers) from which eight men have been martyred either in war or at the border. I was proud of that fact but because of what the government is doing to us now, it has begun feeling like this country is no longer worth living in, leave alone to die for,” retired Havaldar Balwant Singh, 80, from Jhajjar in Haryana, said. “We have been here since the 26th [of November] and the same government, instead of listening to us cry, is busy finding ways to force these black laws created by people in air-conditioned rooms.” Retired Subedar S.P. Singh from Gurdasapur said some six farmers, who had attempted to meet President Ram Nath Kovind to return a small batch of medals last week, were not only unsuccessful but placed under detention. Retired Havaldar Bartar Singh from Patiala alleged that the group of veterans was detained for two whole days and their phones and belongings were confiscated. “I was a fauji (soldier) earlier but even before that, I was a labourer and a farmer. We are willing to sacrifice these medals in return for a repeal of the black laws. It was in that spirit that we went to the Rashtrapati Bhavan on Thursday, but were detained,” he alleged. “They kept us in detention for two whole days thinking we will go back home, but the first thing we did after being released this morning was to come back here to join the protest.” Retired Naik Kapil Dev from Haryana said farmers and ex-servicemen and the families of serving jawans had been “hurt” by the treatment being meted out to those participating in the protests by the government. The veterans had decided to forfeit medals symbolising the glory they had earned over decades. Men were participating in protests guided by a call of duty as their sons, as soldiers, were at the border. Sweat and blood “These medals were given not for entertainment but for valour, for coming face to face with death, through sweat and blood and tears, but the jawan is ready to let them go for a better future for the farmer,” he said. “There are fathers here who have chosen to sit in solidarity with other farmers even as their sons are martyred at the border. And the government is alleging that such people have ulterior motives?” he asked. Retired Havaldar Suresh Kumar Dahiya from Jhajjar alleged that the Union government had consistently, and was continuing to, let both farmers and soldiers down. “Only two sections take a country forward — the farmer and the soldier. I and many like me here are both, and the government has let all of us down,” he complained. “Farmers are being forced to accept laws which will lead to their destruction and, on the other hand, the condition of war widows, despite announcements and packages which are used for politics, are deplorable,” he alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/jai-jawan-jai-kisan-veterans-to-lay-down-25000-medals-for-farmers-cause/article33318076.ece
13 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Hunger continued even after lockdown: report||Six to seven months after the lockdown, people continued to go to bed hungry, skip meals frequently, and are unable to afford nutritious diets because of loss of income, shows the Right to Food Campaign’s survey of 4,000 people living on the margins across 11 States in September and October, calling into question the government’s decision to withdraw free grains under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana (PMGKY) after November. The survey, called Hunger Watch, recorded responses from marginalised and excluded communities, such as from Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and minority religious communities including Muslims, 80% of whom earned less than Rs. 7,000 a month before the lockdown in March.  Drastic decrease Over half of the people surveyed said their consumption of rice and wheat had decreased and 25% said this had “decreased a lot.” Similarly, 64% reported decrease in consumption of pulses, while nearly 30% said this had “decreased a lot”. On consumption of vegetables, 73% reported a drop in consumption of vegetables, while nearly 40% said there was a drastic decrease in their use. About 71% of those who were non-vegetarians could not afford eggs or meat. When quizzed about their perception of drop in quantity of food as compared to pre-COVID 19, nearly 66% or 2/3rd of people said they were having less than the quantity they used to eat. There was also discrimination on the lines of caste and religion while accessing food during the lockdown. One in four Dalits and one in four Muslims reported they faced discrimination and about 12% of Scheduled Tribes felt discriminated against. Similarly, sex workers, domestic workers, as well as single women faced additional difficulties as many of them have no PDS or any documents without which they were dependent entirely on charity from civil society organisations for their food requirements.  This drastic food insecurity is a direct result of economic precarity — 43% of those surveyed had no income immediately after the lockdown in April and May, and of these, only 3% have returned to the same income levels as pre-lockdown. As many as 56% of those without any income in the beginning of the lockdown still had no source of income.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hunger-continued-even-after-lockdown-report/article33318078.ece
13 December 2020||Krishnadas Rajagopal,||Not in favour of imposing family planning, govt. tells SC||The Centre told the Supreme Court on Saturday that it was against coercing couples into having a “certain number of children” in a bid to curb population explosion. In fact, the government said the years from 2001 to 2011 witnessed the sharpest decline in decadal growth rate of Indian population in a 100 years. “The Family Welfare Programme in India is voluntary in nature, which enables couples to decide the size of their family and adopt the family planning methods best suited to them, according to their choice, without any compulsion,” the Union Health and Family Welfare Ministry said in an affidavit. It said India was a signatory to the Programme of Action (POA) of the International Conference on Population and Development, 1994, which was unequivocally against coercion in family planning. “In fact, international experience shows that any coercion to have a certain number of children is counter-productive and leads to demographic distortions,” the Ministry said. The government was responding to the court’s direction to a petition filed by advocate Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay to introduce a population control law. Mr. Upadhyay said population explosion had been the bane of the country. Without implementing effective population control measures, Healthy India, Literate India, Prosperous India, Resourceful India, Strong India, Secured India, Sensitive India, Clean India and Corruption and Crime-Free India campaign won’t succeed,” Mr. Upadhyay said. But the government said India had been witnessing a “constant decline” in the total fertility rate (TFR). According to the Census statistics, “2001-2011 was the first decade in the last 100 years which had not only added lesser population as compared to the previous one, but also registered the sharpest decline in the decadal growth rate from 21.54% in 1991-2001 to 17.64% in 2001-2011”. “The wanted fertility in India as per National Family Health Survey IV is only 1.8 as against the actual fertility of 2.2 prevailing at that time, indicating that couples on an average do not want more than two children,” the Ministry said.  2001-2011 was the first decade in 100 years that added less population than the previous one Health & Family Welfare ministry||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/not-in-favour-of-imposing-family-planning-govt-tells-sc/article33318085.ece
13 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Mothers in M.P. to help check malnutrition||The Madhya Pradesh government has issued an order for the appointment of committees led by mothers to ensure better monitoring of services delivered at anganwadi or day care centres across the State. These mothers will keep a watch on weekly ration distribution to beneficiaries as well as suggest nutritious and tasteful recipes for meals served to children at the centres, in a move that is aimed at strengthening community response to the problem of hunger and malnutrition in the State. Called ‘Matru Sahyogini Samiti’ or Mothers’ Cooperation Committees, these will comprise 10 mothers at each anganwadi representing the concerns of different sets of beneficiaries under the Integrated Child Development Services, or National Nutrition Mission — children between six months to three years, children between three years and six years, adolescent girls and pregnant women and lactating mothers. According to the order issued earlier this month, the committees will include mothers of beneficiary children as well as be represented by pregnant women and lactating mothers who are enrolled under the scheme. The anganwadi scheme includes a package of six services delivered at the centres, including supplementary nutrition, health services including vaccination, early education, among others. The Committees will also include a woman panch, women active in the community and eager to volunteer their support to the scheme, teachers from the local school, and women heads of self-help groups (SHG). The mothers will monitor the weekly distribution of take-home ration as well as coordinate with SHGs engaged in preparing hot cooked meals for daily distribution to beneficiaries at anganwadis to ensure good quality. They will also suggest ways to make such food tasteful and nutritious; ensure that all children as well as pregnant women and lactating mothers due for vaccines receive them; and stay alert about malnourished and severely malnourished children in the community, ensuring they receive benefits from anganwadis, and make parents of such children aware about the benefits available to them through the government. “With the help of mothers, we will be able to turn anganwadis into a community health system, a nutrition management centre, and spread awareness against social evils. These will turn into a model for local governance as well as allow for greater engagement between communities and the State government. Our commitment to this also shows that we are opening ourselves to public scrutiny and improving accountability,” Swati Meena Nayak, Director, Women and Child Development Department of Madhya Pradesh, told The Hindu . The move is being taken as per the mandate of the National Food Security Act, 2013 (NFSA).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mothers-in-mp-to-help-check-malnutrition/article33318298.ece
13 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Central agencies targeting State govt.: Pinarayi||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Saturday attempted to rope the Prime Minister’s Office into the State government’s politically tempestuous run-in with the Central law enforcement. Mr. Vijayan revealed that he would write to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to inform him of how the Central agencies had sought to target the Left Democratic Front (LDF) government in Kerala. At a stroke, Mr. Vijayan also appeared to seek to set the stage for a national debate on whether the current disposition at the Centre imperilled federalism. Central agencies had tried to derail the State’s social welfare and development programmes with barely concealed political malice by spreading lies and singling out critical officials for harassment, he added. “Prime Minister is a constitutional office. He cannot allow Central law enforcement to play partisan politics. He is legally bound to curb Central agencies from overstepping their constitutional bounds,” Mr Vijayan said. He said the federal law enforcement, on the pretext of investigating the UAE consulate-linked gold smuggling case, had attempted to cast the State government under a dark cloud of suspicion in a brazen bid to stack the decks in favour of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). The Congress, the ideological echo chamber of the BJP in Kerala, was a fringe beneficiary of the misinformation campaign by the Central agencies. He said impartiality and discretion were the hallmarks of an ethical investigation. However, the Central agencies seemed to lack both. Instead, they have repeatedly leaked cherry-picked confidential information to BJP leaders and the corporate media in an attempt to hurt the government in an election year. The pattern was discernible across India. He strived to find common cause with other opposition ruled States, parties and political leaders who had found themselves at the receiving end of the federal law enforcement. He listed the names of prominent Congress and other Opposition leaders singled out for raids and cases by the Central agencies. Mr. Vijayan also named several Opposition leaders who escaped investigation by defecting to the BJP. The Central agencies appeared to have taken a page out of the playbook of their colonial predecessors. The British used the power of the State to jail freedom fighters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/central-agencies-targeting-state-govt-pinarayi/article33318474.ece
13 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Kerala is set to augment wildlife rehab||Kerala is set to augment its wildlife rehabilitation capabilities by establishing a dedicated facility to treat and nurture injured and orphaned big cats and other large carnivores that are rescued from the wild. The Forest Department has accorded in-principle approval to a proposal to establish a rescue and rehabilitation centre in Thrissur on the lines of the existing one in the Sri Chamarajendra Zoological Gardens in Mysuru that treats tigers, leopards, sloth bears, wild dogs and other animals. Frequent incursions The move is spurred by frequent incursions by injured wild animals into human habitations, particularly in parts of Wayanad. Such situations have often prompted forest officials to shift animals to far-off places for treatment. It was only a month ago that a 10-year-old tigress was transferred to the Neyyar Lion Safari Park, where it is currently being treated. Proposed facilities The department has currently set its sights on establishing the proposed facility adjacent to the zoological park at Puthur, near Thrissur. Envisaged to house 16 large carnivores at a time, the centre will treat animals until they can be released back into the wild and rehabilitate those that are permanently disabled. The location of the facility will enable the department to enlist the services of veterinarians attached to the zoological park. While it will be off-limits for visitors, the proposed centre is likely to meet its expenditure using the revenue generated by the zoological park. A time frame is yet to be finalised for realising the project. Taking cue from other States, the facility can also be utilised to rear orphaned or abandoned cubs rescued from various parts. Two three-week-old tiger cubs that had been rescued in the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve in Nilgiris were recently shifted to the Arignar Anna Zoological Park in Chennai for specialised neonatal care. Kottoor centre The State currently has a rescue and rehabilitation centre for captive and wild elephants at Kottoor in Thiruvananthapuram. According to official sources, the work on an animal hospice that will be attached to the veterinary care unit in the Wayanad Wildlife Sanctuary will soon get under way. The facility that will enable short-term treatment for up to three animals at a time will be commissioned this fiscal.  The Forest Department has accorded in-principle approval to a proposal to establish a rescue and rehabilitation centre in Thrissur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kerala-is-set-to-augment-wildlife-rehab/article33318055.ece
13 December 2020||JAIPUR,||Gujjars demand Parliament session||Gujjars in Rajasthan, demanding reservation in jobs and education, have sought the Centre’s intervention for Ninth Schedule protection to a 2019 State law which accords Most Backward Class (MBC) category for the community. The quota agitation has generated considerable political heat and disrupted public life several times in the State since 2007. The Gujjar Aarakshan Sangharsh Samiti has demanded that a special session of Parliament be convened for inclusion of the State Act in the Ninth Schedule of the Constitution, on the lines of the protection given to a reservation law of Tamil Nadu, and a constitutional amendment be brought to enhance the 50% ceiling on reservation. The Assembly had passed the Rajasthan Backward Classes (Reservation of Seats in Educational Institutions in the State and of Appointments and Posts in Services under the State) Amendment Act, 2019, on February 13 last year, creating the MBC category. The four other nomadic communities given the quota benefit along with the Gujjars were Banjara, Gadia-Lohar, Raika and Gadariya. Sangharsh Samiti general secretary Shailendra Singh, who has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, said here on Saturday that Gujjars would be forced to launch an agitation against the NDA government at the Centre unless a permanent resolution of the quota issue was found. No response Mr. Singh pointed out that the State government had written several times to the Centre with the recommendation that its legislation be included in the Ninth Schedule to protect its from being challenged in the courts. “The Union government and the Parliament have not taken cognisance of the State Act despite several sessions having been convened since February 2019,” he said. Mr. Singh said Articles 15 and 16 of the Constitution were amended to provide 10% reservation to the citizens belonging to the Economically Weaker Section.  We will be forced to launch agitation against Centre unless permanent solution is found Shailendra Singh General secretary, Gujjar Aarakshan Sangharsh Samiti||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/gujjars-demand-parliament-session/article33318068.ece
13 December 2020||Kolkata,||BJP worker killed in West Bengal||A Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) worker was killed in Halisahar in West Bengal’s North 24 Parganas on Saturday evening, with the party alleging political violence and blaming Trinamool Congress (TMC) workers for the murder. Saikat Bhawal, BJP booth president of ward no. 43 from Halisahar municipality, was allegedly attacked by miscreants during the ‘Griha Samprak Abhiyaan’ (door-to-door outreach campaign) of the party. “Another day, another murder! Saikat Bhawal, BJP worker from Halisahar was brutally murdered by TMC goons while 6 others are critically injured and fighting for their lives. He was targeted during BJP’s door to door outreach “Aar Noi Annay”. Pishi [aunt, referring to Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee] can’t retain power like this!” the BJP’s West Bengal unit posted on its official Twitter handle. BJP MP from Barrackpore Arjun Singh blamed the TMC and said that it was a planned attack on BJP supporters. Mr. Singh said that seven BJP workers had been injured in the attack and one remained in a critical condition. “Saikat Bhowal, BJP Worker has been killed by @AITCOfficial goons in Bizpore ( Bizpur) Assembly area but the @MamataOfficial’s police is busy in conducting raid at my office-cum-residence Majdoor Bhawan. This is the politics of Didi,” the BJP vice president tweeted, referring to a raid on his office. Bizpur MLA and BJP leader Mukul Roy’s son Subhrangshu Roy, who visited the hospital where BJP workers were taken after the attack, warned of “repercussion” to the political murder. The Trinamool Congress leadership, including MLA Partha Bhowmick from North 24 Parganas, said that the murder had nothing to do with politics. TMC leaders said that the death was a result of personal vendetta. Political killings have become an important issue in the State’s political discourse in the run-up to the 2021 Assembly polls. The BJP leadership, including party president J.P. Nadda, has claimed that 130 BJP workers have been killed in the State in political violence at the hands of TMC supporters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-worker-killed-in-west-bengal/article33318116.ece
13 December 2020||Kozhikode,||Anaesthesiologists endorse IMA stir||Doctors practising modern medicine are stepping up their opposition to the Central Council of Indian Medicine Regulations amendment allowing Ayurveda postgraduates to perform surgeries. Anaesthesiologists, who have a major role to play in surgical procedures, have endorsed the ongoing protests by the Indian Medical Association (IMA) against what they called ‘mixopathy’ or blending of different branches of medicine. E.K. Mohamed Abdul Nazar, Kerala chapter president of the Indian Society of Anaesthesiologists (ISA), told The Hindu on Saturday that any doctor applying anaesthetic drugs before surgery needs to have a clear understanding of the existing medical conditions of the patient and the treatment being given. “It is dangerous for any anaesthesiologist, who may not know anything about Ayurveda medicines or their side effects, to apply the drugs,” he pointed out. Dr. Nazar claimed that no scientific studies had yet been done on the counteraction between Ayurveda and anaesthetic drugs. There was no doubt that this mixopathy would do only harm, he said. “After the surgery, patients are under the scrutiny of a team of physicians, intensive care surgeons, and anaesthesiologists who are trained in modern medicine. An Ayurvedic doctor working with this team will not help in any way,” Dr. Nazar said. On training He came down on the proposal to train Ayurvedic doctors in anaesthesia. “Most of the anaesthetic drugs, which are prepared only according to the pharmacopoeia of modern medicine, do have serious side effects and are not fully safe. The Ayurveda system of medicine does not have any such medicines. It will be practically impossible to train their doctors who will not have any knowledge of anaesthesia,” Dr. Nazar said. He said the Central move to encourage mixing of different branches of medicines would only lead to each of them losing their identity. This would deprive people of their right to choose a particular branch of medicine that would be beneficial to them, Dr. Nazar added. In a communication to its members, the Indian Society of Anaesthesiologists claimed that MD (Ayurveda) Anaesthesia and Diploma (Ayurveda) Anaesthesia were against the “basic human right of safe anaesthesia”.  No scientific studies have yet been done on the counteraction between Ayurveda and anaesthetic drugs||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/anaesthesiologists-endorse-ima-stir/article33318472.ece
13 December 2020||Kozhikode,||Campaign ends for last phase of Kerala local body polls||Election campaign in Kasaragod, Kannur, Kozhikode and Malappuram districts drew to a close on Saturday with political parties and fronts sweating it out in the northern districts going to the polls on Monday in the final phase of the local body elections in the State. Despite the pandemic constraints on electioneering, the campaign was at full tilt in the four districts where 89,74,993 voters would cast their votes to elect their representatives in 6,867 wards/divisions in 354 local bodies, including two Corporations and 31 municipalities. The electorate include 46,87,310 women, 42,87,597 men and 86 transgenders. Malappuram has the highest number of voters in the State — 33,55,028. Election machinery in the four districts has been fully geared up for the polling. There are 10,842 polling booths across the four districts. Elaborate arrangements have been made to ensure incident-free election in the region, especially in politically sensitive areas in Kannur and Kasaragod. HC directive The High Court has directed that adequate police personnel be posted to rule out any incidents of violence or election malpractice, even in polling stations not categorised as sensitive. As many as 2,175 booths have been identified as sensitive/problematic. There will be webcasting in 1,105 booths. There are 52,285 officials on poll duty. In Kannur, which accounts for a large number of sensitive/problematic booths, nearly 10,000 security personnel, including commandos, have been deployed for ensuring law and order on the polling day. In Malappuram, 6,190 police personnel would be posted. As many as 2,557 policemen have been deployed in Kasaragod. Voters testing positive for COVID-19 and those being quarantined between 3 p.m. on the day before the polling and till the time the polling ends would be allowed to cast their votes with a certificate from the designated health officer. Health Department employees would be active during elections under nodal officers in charge of coordination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/campaign-ends-for-last-phase-of-kerala-local-body-polls/article33318051.ece
13 December 2020||Srinagar,||NC, BJP spar ahead of phase 6 of DDC polls||The National Conference (NC) and the BJP were engaged in a war of words on Saturday, ahead of the sixth phase of the District Development Council polling in the Union Territory (UT). Union Minister of State Finance Anurag Thakur, who is also the BJP’s in-charge of the DDC polls, termed the participation of people in the ongoing polls as “a victory for democracy”. “Our biggest achievement has been fair, fear-free elections in J&K. In Jammu, there is a great support for the BJP. There has been a positive response in Kashmir as well,” said Mr. Thakur, who is campaigning in the Kashmir valley. He said the removal of Articles 370 and 35A has opened up opportunities to young leadership in J&K, “which was otherwise taken up by a handful of dynasties”. Taking on the BJP, the NC said the BJP was shocked and unnerved by the support people of Kashmir have extended to the Peoples Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) candidates. “The Centre’s experiment has failed, as the people were not allowing any space to divisive forces. The main agenda behind conducting the DDC elections was to dilute the aspirations of the people. The local government cannot be a substitute to what was spitefully snatched on August 5, 2019 from us,” NC General Secretary Ali Muhammad Sagar said at a public rally in south Kashmir.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nc-bjp-spar-ahead-of-phase-6-of-ddc-polls/article33318069.ece
13 December 2020||HYDERABAD,||KCR seeks 6 domestic airports for Telangana||Telangana Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao called on Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri on the second day of his New Delhi tour to request establishment of six new domestic airports in Telangana. The sites identified by Mr. Rao in a representation to the Union Minister on Saturday were Basantnagar in Peddapalli district, Mamnoor in Warangal (Urban), Adilabad town, Jakranpally in Nizamabad, Devarkadra in Mahbubnagar and Bhadradri-Kothagudem district. Mr. Rao pointed out that the Airports Authority of India (AAI) had already taken up the Obstacle Limitation Surface Survey, soil testing and other investigations at the sites. Some draft reports were already received but the final reports were yet to be given. He recalled requesting Mr Modi after formation of Telangana in 2014 to sanction five more airports — at Adilabad, Warangal, Kothagudem, Nizamabad and Shamirpet (north of Hyderabad) — as there was only one at Hyderabad presently. Some of these places had old airstrips which could be used to establish regular airports. In this background, Mr. Rao told the Union Minister that the State government had initiated action for creating additional domestic airports at six locations and a formal proposal was sent to the AAI in 2018 to give feasibility reports based on discussions with its chairman. It was indicated that only no-frills airports for small aircraft could be developed to begin with and they may be expanded in future for commercial operations based on demand. He requested the Civil Aviation Ministry to expedite the process and give the required handholding to the State government in finalising the sites. The State government could be helped to get all statutory clearances on single-window basis so that it could commence the infrastructure creation work at the earliest for starting the Non-Scheduled Operators Permit operations with its own funds. In the letter to the chairman of the business development unit of AAI in May 2018, the State government said lands for five domestic airports, except Bhadradri Kothagudem, were identified for setting up green-field airports or develop the existing brown-field airstrips. No-frills airports catering to 40- to 50-seater ATR-42 aircraft requiring a runway of 1,400 to 1,500 metres could be developed. Therefore, the State proposed to engage consultancy services in preparation of techno-feasibility studies for the existing airstrip locations (brown-field) and feasibility study for green-field airports.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kcr-seeks-6-domestic-airports-for-telangana/article33318053.ece
13 December 2020||Kolkata,||Mamata bets on schemes, BJP on her ‘mistakes’||As the campaign builds up in West Bengal for what is going to be one of the fiercest electoral contests in its history, events in the State appear to be unfolding in a manner the Bharatiya Janata Party would like them to. While the local BJP leaders have, all along, been accusing the ruling Trinamool Congress of unleashing violence on its political opponents, the attack on the convoy of its national president J.P. Nadda in South 24 Parganas on Thursday has transformed their long-standing allegation into an election issue and — according to political observers — stands to polarise the voters in this TMC-controlled district. “[Chief Minister and Trinamool Congress chief] Mamata Banerjee has lost her magic with the people, her utterances are now met with ridicule. People wait for the next funny statement from her. She now heads a crumbling government and a disintegrating party,” Jay Prakash Majumdar, vice-president of State BJP, told The Hindu . “It escapes me how a seasoned and shrewd leader like her can make one mistake after another. Communal polarisation is her gift to West Bengal. Before she came to power, people here never voted on the basis of religion,” Mr. Majumdar said. “Then other mistakes, like trying to prevent national-level BJP leaders from landing in Bengal to address rallies during the 2019 election, or refusing permission to the BJP to take out processions. All this is helping the BJP in an unprecedented way,” he said. Even those not aligned with any political party agree that Ms. Banerjee, 65, is under pressure this time. Unlike the fighter who frequently took to the streets to take on the government, she is herself in the government today, presiding over a cash-strapped State and facing anti-incumbency. “There will certainly be greater pressure on her now [after the attack on Mr. Nadda’s convoy] to prove that her administration is non-partisan. The attack will also cause polarisation of voters in the area,” said election analyst Biswanath Chakraborty. The BJP appears to be just one of her problems. Recently, TMC heavyweight Suvendu Adhikari quit her government; and while it is not uncommon for members of her party to switch over to the BJP, no popular face from the BJP has joined the Trinamool. It would, however, be imprudent to underestimate Ms. Banerjee. This month she launched a two-month-long ‘Government at your Doorstep’ outreach and also the Swasthya Sathi insurance scheme — so far the public response to both has been encouraging. Of the other outreaches launched over the last one year with great fanfare, Didi ke Bolo (Tell Didi) has met with some success  .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mamata-bets-on-schemes-bjp-on-her-mistakes/article33318296.ece
13 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Will give free COVID-19 vaccine to all: Pinarayi||All citizens in the State will receive COVID-19 vaccination free of cost as and when the Centre makes vaccines available to States, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said. The State is already giving free COVID-19 treatment to those affected and the policy will continue when it comes to vaccination also. The State would not intend to charge money from anyone for providing the vaccine, he said here on Saturday during a media briefing. He said it was a matter of huge relief that the COVID-19 active case pool in the State has been declining slowly but steadily. 40% drop in cases From 97,000-odd cases in the peak of the epidemic in the last week of October, the active cases had dropped by nearly 40% and was now fewer than 60,000 cases. The test positivity rate has also come down below 10% and was now in the 8-9% range, which was also a positive indicator. However, whether this declining trend will continue was something that the State was quite anxious about. Whether the relaxation in protocol and congregation of people all across the State in connection with the local body election campaigning will lead to a resurgence in cases and a spike in the State’s epidemic curve was something which would become clear only in the next few days, Mr. Vijayan said. With an average of 30 deaths a day, the COVID-related mortality has shown a spike. However, this was a spike that was expected by health authorities as mortality is known to go up with the immediate period after the peak. Yet, when compared with the case fatality rate in other States, Kerala’s figure was much low, he said. Mr. Vijayan appealed to the public to continue the vigil and work with the government. He appealed to the people to be vigilant about the lingering post-COVID health problems and to seek appropriate care in public health facilities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/will-give-free-covid-19-vaccine-to-all-pinarayi/article33318114.ece
13 December 2020||December 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Army veterans to lay down 25,000 medals||“I was a fauji (soldier) earlier but even before that, I was a labourer and a farmer. We are willing to sacrifice these medals in return for a repeal of the black laws. It was in that spirit that we went to the Rashtrapati Bhavan on Thursday, but were detained,” he alleged. “They kept us in detention for two whole days thinking we will go back home, but the first thing we did after being released this morning was to come back here to join the protest.” Retired Naik Kapil Dev from Haryana said farmers and ex-servicemen and the families of serving jawans had been “hurt” by the treatment being meted out by the government to the protesters. The veterans had decided to forfeit medals symbolising the glory they had earned over decades. “These medals were given not for entertainment but for valour, for coming face to face with death, through sweat and blood and tears, but the jawan is ready to let them go for a better future for the farmer,” he said. Retired Havaldar Suresh Kumar Dahiya from Jhajjar alleged that the Union government had been letting farmers and soldiers down.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/army-veterans-to-lay-down-25000-medals/article33318293.ece
13 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Removing roadblocks in agricultural sector: PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday said the government has undertaken reform measures to remove roadblocks in the agricultural sector that have hampered the growth of farmers. Speaking at the 93rd annual general meeting of the industry body FICCI, Mr. Modi said in a vibrant economy, when one sector grows, it has a direct impact on other sectors as well. However, unnecessary walls built between industries were hampering growth. “The recent agriculture reforms are also a part of this process. We have seen such walls between agriculture and allied sectors such as agriculture infrastructure, food processing, storage, cold chains. We are now removing these walls and all other hurdles,” he said. After these reforms are done, Mr. Modi said, farmers will get access to new markets and benefits of technology, the country’s cold storage infrastructure will be modern and with this more investments will come in the agricultural sector. “If anyone will reap its benefits, it will be the country’s farmers who earn their living from small pieces of land. It will benefit them,” he stressed. He said a lot of work has been done by the government over the past few years to strengthen the agricultural sector. “Today, farmers in India have the option to sell their crop at mandis as well as outside. The mandis are being modernised in India and farmers are being given the option of buying and selling crops via digital platforms,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/removing-roadblocks-in-agricultural-sector-pm/article33318065.ece
13 December 2020||December 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Committed to welfare of farmers, says PM||After these reforms are done, Mr. Modi said, farmers will get access to new markets and benefits of technology, the country’s cold storage infrastructure will be modern and with this more investments will come in the agricultural sector. “And if anyone will reap its benefits, it will be the country’s farmers who earn their living from small pieces of land. It will benefit them,” he stressed. He said a lot of work has been done by the government over the past few years to strengthen the agricultural sector. He also asked India Inc to take interest in the agriculture sector and invest in it. Stating that the Indian economy is recovering at a swift pace and economic indicators are encouraging, Mr. Modi told all entrepreneurs not to miss out on the opportunity to invest in villages and small towns as “it is certain that villages and small cities are going to support the growth of 21st century India”. He added that the number of active Internet users in rural India is more than in cities and more than half of India's start-ups are in tier-2 and tier-3 cities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/committed-to-welfare-of-farmers-says-pm/article33318115.ece
13 December 2020||December 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Farmers picket 165 toll plazas nationwide||He added that farm union leaders would also sit on a day-long hunger strike on Monday. Across States, protests were held at about 165 out of 450 toll booths, according to estimates provided by the All India Kisan Sabha. In Punjab, all toll plazas have been free since October after the new laws were passed. In Haryana, farmers staged sit-in dharnas, shouting anti-BJP slogans, at toll plazas in 20 locations. They also picketed petrol pumps and malls run by the Reliance group, which farmers see as an example of the large corporates set to benefit from these laws. “Farmers staged ‘dharna’ at almost all the toll plazas in Haryana. Group of farmers gathered at toll-plazas since morning on Ambala-Hisar highway. Besides, we were picketing at toll plazas in Hisar district, situated on roads leading to Delhi, Rajgarh, Sirsa and Chandigarh. Also, at Karnal-Jind highway group of farmers staged protest,” Rattan Mann, president of the Haryana Bharatiya Kisan Union (Tikait) told The Hindu . “At most of the toll plazas on the Chandigarh-Delhi highway, Milk-Majra toll plaza on Panchkula-Saharanpur highway and Gullarpur toll plaza on Assandh-Karnal highway, we ensured that no charges were collected from commuters,” he added. Farmers in western Uttar Pradesh picketed toll plazas for intermittently through the day. In Gautam Buddh Nagar, the Bhartiya Kisan Sangathan picketed the Luharli Toll Plaza and Eastern Peripheral Expressway and made them free for some time. “It was a symbolic way to show the strength of farmers. If the government doesn’t wake up, we will surround representatives of the ruling party on Sunday.” In a protest at Noida’s Chilla border, farmers sought support by stopping vehicles and offering commuters small packets of pulses and rice. In Odisha, farmers prevented collection of toll at multiple points on the Howrah-Chennai and Bhubaneswar-Puri national highways, including at Bhubaneswar, Ganjam and Cuttack. There were protests at 31 locations in Andhra Pradesh; while 25 toll booths were opened, police prevented opening in six locations, arresting protestors. Farmers stopped toll collection in 18 centres in Telangana. Protests were also held at toll plazas in Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Jharkhand and Bihar, according to the AIKS. Farmer leaders pointed to the widespread participation in the toll plaza protests to refute Food Minister Piyush Goyal’s statement that the agitation no longer remains a farmers’ movement. Speaking at the annual meeting of industry body FICCI, Mr. Goyal said, the movement has been “infiltrated by Leftist and Maoist elements” demanding the release of those put behind bars for “anti-national activities”. Late on Saturday evening, around 50 farmers led by Nagaur Lok Sabha MP Hanuman Beniwal and farmers’ leader Rampal Jat staged a sit-in on the Delhi-Jaipur Highway at Rewari, blocking the road. The Rewari police said efforts were being made to lift the blockade and restore traffic. Thousands of farmers are gathering at Kotputli and Behror on the Rajasthan side of the border and plan to cross over into Haryana around 11 a.m. on Sunday as part of the ‘Delhi Chalo’ campaign, aiming to seal one more entry into the capital. Rewari police said they would attempt to stop the march. Gurugram police have also deployed 2,000 police personnel at various points along their route. Meanwhile, thousands of farmers and farm workers under the banner of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangarsh Samiti, who are on their way from Punjab to Delhi, started to move towards the national capital on Saturday after a night halt in Haryana’s Shahbad.  (With inputs from Ashok Kumar in Gurugram, Vikas Vasudeva in Chandigarh, Priscilla Jebaraj and Anuj Kumar in New Delhi)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/farmers-picket-165-toll-plazas-nationwide/article33318059.ece
13 December 2020||December 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Odisha’s brides go missing in ration cards||Neither Ms. Dharua nor her two children figure in the ration card, which deprives them of subsidised foodgrains in one of the country’s poorest districts. After marriage, Anita Majhi, 21, shifted to Talapipli, but her name continues to remain in her parents’ ration card. “I badly need the subsidised rice as my husband, who works as daily wager, cannot meet all needs. I too cannot go to my parents’ house to collect my share of rice,” a desperate Ms. Majhi says. Ms. Majhi and the brides of Poharighat and Nagjhari are among the many women excluded from the food security net after their marriage. Raising concerns over the “erasure” of these women, activists argue that they should not be kept out of the public distribution system (PDS) as it would adversely impact their health. Unclear process Kaikei Majhi, sarpanch of Talbelgaon in Kalahandi, says, “It is fact that women after their marriage find it difficult to add their names in ration card list.But in-laws of newly married women are partly responsible for the mess. They shy away from interacting with officials. Hence, there is delay in adding their names to list.” “Technically the PDS is required to be made dynamic. Addition of names of women in the ration card list [of their marital families] has to be seamless. But we come across numerous cases in which women’s names are struck off from their natal village ration cards immediately after marriage, but are not added with the same swiftness at their marital homes,” says Sameet Panda, co-convenor of the Odisha Right To Food campaign. Marriage is the primary factor for women migrating. However, the ration card management system, which the State claims is completely digitised and portable, has not been able to capture these movements and ensure food security. “There is no mechanism or standard operating procedure to capture change of address of women from one fair price shop to another within the PDS system. It is done in a very informal way. Also rather than the system helping the beneficiaries to facilitate the transition, they are left to fend themselves,” Mr. Panda says. A major hurdle is the lack of procedural clarity on how names can be “ported” from one ration card to another. “There is no information on how to apply for it and how long it may take to get them added in the ration card. The government must come up with a window to address this basic issue in a time bound manner,” Mr. Panda says, pointing to the delay of several years for some of the most needy beneficiaries. While not offering a time-bound solution to this ‘automatic exclusion’ of women from the PDS after marriage, Food Supplies and Consumer Welfare and Cooperation Minister Ranendra Pratap Swain says, “I am seized of the matter. No deserving person should be left out of food security net.” “If situation demands, we will come up with a guideline for immediate addition of names of women in the ration cards at their respective marital villages.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pds-red-tape-erases-odishas-brides/article33318062.ece
13 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||CBI identifies minor victims of abuse in U.P.||The CBI has identified some of the children who were sexually abused by a junior engineer with the Irrigation department in Uttar Pradesh over the past decade. The alleged paedophile, a resident of Chitrakoot, took photographs and filmed his acts to share or sell them on the dark web in India and overseas. He was arrested by the CBI last month. Confirming that some victims had been identified, an official said the district’s Child Welfare Committee had been contacted for necessary help. The agency is yet to interview the victims. Preliminary investigations revealed that the accused had sexually abused about 50 minors in the five-16 age group. The CBI examined the accused’s e-mails and found that he was in regular touch with several Indian and foreign nationals, with whom he shared the child sexual abuse material.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cbi-identifies-minor-victims-of-abuse-in-up/article33318080.ece
13 December 2020||New Delhi,||Indigenous artillery gun trials to end in 2021||User trials of the indigenous Advanced Towed Artillery Gun System (ATAGS) developed by the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) jointly with private industry are scheduled to be resumed later this month and proceed with winter and summer trials to be completed by mid-2021, a defence official said. Trials which began in September were paused after the gun suffered a barrel burst. An investigation is under way to determine the cause. “The guns will move some time next week to Balasore for initial proof firing trials. Winter trials should happen sometime in January. We will do the summer trials by mid next year,” the official said. The ATAGS is a 155-mm, 52-calibre artillery gun jointly developed by the DRDO in partnership with Bharat Forge of the Kalyani Group and the Tata Power SED. In August 2018, the Defence Acquisition Council approved the purchase of 150 ot these guns at an approximate Rs. 3,365 crore which would be split between the two companies. After the user trials, the Army has to give the Request For Proposal and the initial lot can be supplied immediately, the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/indigenous-artillery-gun-trials-to-be-over-in-2021/article33318081.ece
13 December 2020||Hyderabad,||TS-iPass for tourism sector||The Telangana government is now bringing its TS-iPass (Telangana State Industrial Project Approval and Self-certification Scheme) to the tourism sector. Announcing the launch of a portal for this on Saturday, Minister for Tourism and Culture V. Srinivas Goud said that ease of doing business (EoDB) will bring in more investments to the tourism sector. “Many nations are thriving on just tourism sector. Telangana has a vast potential with its natural and built heritage. This policy intervention will change the way the tourism sector has been treated,” Mr. Goud said. The policy tweak allows hotels, travel agencies, and organisers of tourism events to secure permission online without visiting different government departments. “For starting a hotel, there were 15 permissions that had to be secured. Now, all the permissions will be given within a month’s time. If the permission is not given within the specified time-frame, it would be seen as deemed permission,” said Mr. Goud. Action plan The policy intervention is part of the push by the Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade under Ministry of Commerce and Industry for improving the business climate under its State Reform Action Plan 2020. “This will remove corruption and middlemen,” said Mr. Goud. “The TS-iPASS is an outcome of interaction between industrialists and Telangana government. From the time it has been rolled out we have had 14,000 new industries coming up in the state. This will help transform the tourism sector and create more jobs,” said Principal Secretary of the Industries & Commerce Jayesh Ranjan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ts-ipass-for-tourism/article33318420.ece
13 December 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Revoke Pathalgadi cases: activists||Rights groups in Jharkhand urged the Hemant Soren government to withdraw criminal cases slapped against persons associated with the Pathalgadi movement. The movement was started by the indigenous people in the tribal heartland for their right for self-government. The entry of outsiders was restricted. The Jharkhand Janadhikar Mahasabha (JJM), a group of rights activists which organised a State-level seminar at Ranchi on Friday, alleged that people were suffering as then Raghubar Das government had indiscriminately registered criminal cases to suppress the movement. The police had then filed several cases against 200 named accused and more than 10,000 unnamed people under various charges that include abetment, obstruction to public servants discharging their duty, creation of public nuisance, criminal intimidation and even sedition, the JJM activists say. According to the JJM, response to a RTI plea says there were 30 FIRs, spread across Khunti (23), Saraikela-Kharsawan (5) and West Singhbhum (2) districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/revoke-pathalgadi-cases-activists/article33318079.ece
13 December 2020||Chandigarh,||‘Impasse could end in two days’||Amid the ongoing farmers agitation, Haryana Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala of the Jannayak Janta Party (JJP) on Saturday said he was hopeful that the ongoing impasse could end in the next 24 to 48 hours. He was talking to journalists in New Delhi after meeting Union Ministers, including Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar and Minister of Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution Piyush Goyal. In the meetings, he said he appealed to all Ministers to take steps to end the deadlock at the earliest. “I am hopeful that the ongoing impasse could end in the next 24 to 48 hours. Both the sides are in favour of coming to an agreement and that’s is why there have been many rounds of talks till date. On some points, both parties have agreed. In the 24-page proposal sent by the Central government, written assurance is promised on the guarantee of Minimum Support Price (MSP),” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/impasse-could-end-in-two-days/article33318074.ece
13 December 2020||GUWAHATI,||Bodoland People’s Front ahead in polls||The elections to Assam’s autonomous Bodoland Territorial Council (BTC) are set to throw up a fractured verdict. Till the time of filing of this report, the Bodoland People’s Front (BPF) had won 11 of the 40 council seats followed by regional rival United People’s Party Liberal (UPPL) with 10 and BJP with seven. All three parties were leading in other seats proportionately. State Election Commission officials said counting the votes for the two-phase elections, would continue past Saturday midnight. This is the first election in the BTC since the Centre had signed the Bodoland Territorial Region (BTR) peace accord with the All Bodo Students’ Union and some factions of extremist National Democratic Front of Boroland in January this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bodoland-peoples-front-ahead-in-polls/article33318117.ece
13 December 2020||Srinagar,||2 injured as grenade goes off in Sopore||Two civilians were injured when suspected militants tossed a grenade on a deployment of security forces at Sopore in Baramulla district of north Kashmir on Saturday. A police spokesperson said around 5.55 p.m., militants hurled a grenade near the Sopore bus stand at the security personnel. Investigation on “The grenade missed the intended target and exploded on the road. Two civilians received minor injuries and were evacuated to a nearby hospital for treatment,” the police spokesperson said. The police said that an investigation was in progress “to establish the full circumstances of this terror crime”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/2-injured-as-grenade-goes-off-in-sopore/article33318088.ece
13 December 2020||December 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Paint it white||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/paint-it-white/article33318093.ece
13 December 2020||Dehradun,||U’khand: COVID officer to be deployed for Kumbh||Uttarakhand Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Saturday asked officials to deploy a special COVID officer for the 2021 Haridwar Kumbh Mela. Reviewing preparations for the event, Mr. Rawat authorised Kumbh mela officials and the Garhwal commissioner to sanction works worth up to Rs. 2 crore and Rs. 5 crore, respectively. All shopkeepers in the mela area have been asked to keep masks and hand sanitisers, Health Secretary Amit Negi said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ukhand-covid-officer-to-be-deployed-for-kumbh/article33318301.ece
13 December 2020||Lucknow,||Bar licensing rules eased in UP||The Uttar Pradesh government has delegated its power to grant licences to run liquor bars to Divisional Commissioners, an official statement said on Saturday. The new bar licencing rules are aimed at simplifying the complex licencing process and devolving power in line with the ease of doing business doctrine. The licencing process has been made online too.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bar-licensing-rules-eased-in-up/article33318302.ece
13 December 2020||Aurangabad,||Sena seeks Raosaheb Danve’s resignation over anti-farmer slur||Activists of the ruling Shiv Sena in Maharashtra on Saturday staged a demonstration in Aurangabad demanding the resignation of Union minister Raosaheb Danve for remarks he had made against protesting farmers in Delhi. Mr. Danve, who is an MP from Jalna, had stirred a controversy with his remarks that China and Pakistan were behind the protests being staged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sena-seeks-raosaheb-danves-resignation-over-anti-farmer-slur/article33318528.ece
13 December 2020||Hyderabad,||32,304 cases settled in Lok Adalats in State||Three married couples, who were fighting matrimonial cases, got reunited during the National Lok Adalat held by the City Civil Court. As a mark of reunion, the three couples planted saplings on the premises of the City Civil Court in Purani Haveli of the old city. They exchanged garlands in the presence of judges. The couples expressed their gratitude to the Lok Adalat bench for helping them resolve their differences amicably. CCC Legal Services Authority secretary and senior civil judge K. Murali Mohan remarked that the Lok Adalat is a proper platform for people to settle their cases. CCC Chief Judge-cum-chairperson of LSA C. Sumalatha said that 360 pending civil cases were settled during Lok Adalat in Hyderabad and Secunderabad. Out of the 360 cases, 310 were motor accident compensation cases. An amount of Rs. 21.65 crore was awarded to the claimants, the injured persons and dependants of road accident victims in these cases. A single court case of commercial dispute was settled for Rs. 8.5 crore. The Lok Adalat was convened both in physical and virtual mode. Meanwhile, the Telangana State Legal Services Authority announced that a total of 32,304 cases were settled across the State during National Lok Adalat organised at different courts. This included 16,938 pre-litigation cases and 15,366 pending court cases. Awards to the tune of Rs. 58.70 crore were passed during the National Lok Adalats, TSLSA member secretary G. Anupama Chakravarthy said in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/32304-cases-settled-in-ts-lok-adalats/article33318415.ece
13 December 2020||IMPHAL,||Manipur observes 81st anniversary of ‘women’s war’||Manipur observed the 81st anniversary of the “women’s war” at an official function held at the “Women’s War Memorial Complex” in Imphal on Saturday. It was on December 12, 1939, that the women fought against the British after some of its officials colluded with traders to export the nutritious Manipuri rice, pushing people to the point of starvation. Following their protest, the export order was revoked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/manipur-observes-81st-anniversary-of-womens-war/article33318082.ece
13 December 2020||AhmedaBad,||Two arrested for chasing a pair of lions on motorbike||Two people, including a minor, have been arrested a few days after the video of the two bike riders chasing a pair of lions in the Gir forest went viral. The video clip showed the two lions being chased by unidentified persons, who scared them away with vehicle noise and honking. “An investigation revealed that the video was shot near Gadhiya village in the Tulsishyam range of the Gir east forest division of Gujarat by two locals. One of them was identified as Yunis Pathan and the other is a minor,” D.T. Vasavada, chief conservator of forests (wildlife), Junagadh, said. “While going on their motorcycle, the duo had come across the two Asiatic lions. They chased the felines away by honking and creating loud sound. They shot a video of the chase on a mobile phone, which they uploaded on social media sites,” he said. Mr. Pathan is from Sarasiya village in the same locality, who was arrested along with the minor under the provisions of the Wildlife Protection Act. He was produced before a local court on Friday, which remanded him in judicial custody. Officials are consulting legal experts about the action against the accused who is a minor. Officials have issued a stern warning against indulging in activities like harassing or teasing lions, which is a serious offence with a provision for jail term ranging from three to seven years and a fine of Rs. 25,000. “We have arrested several people for such offences in the past and are taking stern action. It is not easy to get bail in such matters. I would appeal to people to refrain from such acts,” Mr. Vasavada added. The only abode of the Asiatic lions in the continent has emerged as one of the preferred locations for wildlife tourism and is seeing increasing footfalls. As a result, harassment of wildlife either by tourists or by locals has become a frequent occurrence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/two-arrested-for-chasing-a-pair-of-lions-on-motorbike/article33318086.ece
13 December 2020||Jaipur,||Ghanshyam Tiwari returns to the BJP||Veteran leader and former Minister Ghanshyam Tiwari rejoined the BJP here on Saturday, two-and-a-half years after he left the party over differences with then Chief Minister Vasundhara Raje and the Central party leadership. He had floated a new outfit, Bharat Vahini Party, ahead of the 2018 Rajasthan Assembly election. Mr. Tiwari extended support to the Congress after his party lost all the 63 seats it contested in 2018.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ghanshyam-tiwari-returns-to-the-bjp/article33318087.ece
13 December 2020||GUWAHATI,||Meghalaya group writes to PM, seeks entry restrictions, repeal of CAA||A pressure group in Meghalaya has petitioned Prime Minister Narendra Modi demanding the implementation of inner-line permit (ILP), a Brirish-era entry restriction, in the northeastern State and the scrapping of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA). The memorandum by the Khasi Students' Union preceded the relaunch of the anti-CAA movement in the region on December 11.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/meghalaya-group-writes-to-pm-seeks-entry-restrictions-repeal-of-caa/article33318089.ece
13 December 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Jagannath temple may be opened from last week of December||The Shree Jagannath Temple Administration (SJTA) on Saturday said it had decided to recommend to the Odisha government to open the 12th–century temple from the last week of December. The temple has remained closed since March when the pandemic broke out. Once opened, devotees coming from outside Puri would have to produce COVID-19 negative certificate for entry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/jagannath-temple-may-be-opened-from-last-week-of-december/article33318095.ece
13 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T. Nagar multi-level parking lot to open in Jan.||Greater Chennai Corporation will launch various Smart City projects, including the multi-level car parking lot on Thanikachalam Road at T. Nagar, in January. A senior official of the Corporation said the parking facility would be completely robotic, easing congestion in T. Nagar. “We will integrate the multi-level parking lot with the on-street parking management system in T. Nagar,” said the official. Monitored by 56 CCTV units, the multi-level parking lot will accommodate 222 cars and 513 motorcycles on six floors. The parking lot will have solar panels on rooftop. Most vehicles coming to the T. Nagar pedestrian plaza are parked on the streets in the vicinity of Thyagaraya Road, leading to civic issues in residential areas. This plaza was proposed to ease congestion. The parking fee was expected to be based on the government order which increased the charges from Rs. 5 to Rs. 20 an hour for cars. The premium parking charges have been fixed at Rs. 40 an hour. Citizens have requested the government to fix the parking charges at less than Rs. 20 an hour. Earlier, the parking charges were not collected for two-wheelers. After the government proposed the parking management system based on smart city mission in 2015, a new government order increased the parking charges from Rs. 5 to Rs. 40 in some areas with premium parking spaces. Under the Smart City mission, the civic body will complete work on redesign of North Usman Road, South Usman Road and 14 feeder roads at an estimated cost of Rs. 28 crore in January. The project is expected to facilitate pedestrian movement in many parts of T. Nagar. Officials said the work on skywalk connecting T. Nagar Bus Terminus with Mambalam Railway Station will be completed in May. Just 26% of the work on skywalk has been completed. The work is estimated at Rs. 29 crore. Skywalks were proposed in many areas such as George Town, Egmore, Chintadripet, Chepauk and T. Nagar by the Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority many years ago. But most of the skywalk projects were shelved. The restoration of Villivakkam Tank and a suspension bridge under Smart City funding will be completed in January.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/t-nagar-multi-level-parking-lot-to-open-in-jan/article33318223.ece
13 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State reports 1,218 fresh COVID-19 cases||On a day when another 1,218 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu, 31 of the 37 districts had less than 50 new cases each. There were no new cases in Ariyalur, while seven districts had fresh cases in single digits. This included Kallakurichi and Ramanathapuram that had one case each, while Perambalur had two cases. 345 cases in Chennai Chennai continued to report 300-plus cases. A total of 345 persons tested positive for the infection, taking the city’s tally to 2,19,526. There were 120 cases in Coimbatore, while Chengalpattu and Tiruvallur recorded 72 cases each. Tiruppur reported 65 cases, while Erode and Kancheepuram had 41 cases each and Salem recorded 40 cases. The fresh coronavirus infections took the State’s tally to 7,97,693. Another 13 persons succumbed to the infection in the State. Six of them died in Chennai, while two persons died in Nagapattinam. Except for one person, the remaining had co-morbidities. A 30-year-old man from Coimbatore was admitted to the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital on December 4 had no co-morbidities. He died on December 11 due to bilateral bronchopneumonia. Two nonagenarians also succumbed to the infection. A 96-year-old man from Chennai was admitted to a private hospital with complaints of difficulty in breathing for four days on December 11. He died within 20 minutes due to COVID-19 pneumonia.  Death toll touches 11,883 With this, the State’s toll rose to 11,883. Another 1,296 persons were discharged from hospitals in the State, taking the total number of persons discharged so far to 7,75,602. The number of active cases stood at 10,208 of which 3,226 were in Chennai and 992 in Coimbatore. In the last 24 hours, 72,122 samples were tested. Till date, 1,28,87,037 samples were tested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-reports-1218-fresh-covid-19-cases/article33318238.ece
13 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||K-pop fans treated to scintillating music||Music, dance, and quizzes took the centre stage on Saturday at a K-pop event organised by the Consulate General of Republic of Korea in the city. The event, which brought together several K-pop fans, was hosted by members of the “Dream K-Pop Girls”, who had emerged successful in a series of K-pop contests conducted across the country. Rhea Rajkumar, an MBBS student at Madras Medical College; R. Sruthi, a post graduate in Business Economics; Subiksha Priyal, a fashion design student; and Sindhoo Dhana, a software engineer; took the stage and performed hit K-pop numbers. “Both the music and the choreography in K-pop videos are extremely appealing and transcend language barriers. We also love how K-Pop idols connect with their fans,” said Rhea. Sindhoo and Subiksha said the variety of music that different K-pop groups dabbled in was something they love. “As a vocalist, I’m drawn to the music and lyrics as a whole, and how the songs deal with different themes,” said Shruti. The team also has a fifth member, Jeson Dagam, a third year medical student who lives in Arunachal Pradesh. The audience also took part in a K-pop and K-drama quiz as well as a K-Pop dance competition as a part of the event. As a part of their Korean cultural week celebrations, the Dream K-pop girls had also released online video tutorials on K-pop singing and dancing from October. Young-seup Kwon, Consul General, said he was happy to see how popular K-pop music was in India and particularly, in Chennai. “I hope that your love for K-pop music encourages you to explore Korean culture and the Korean language further. This will open the doors to many educational and employment opportunities in South Korea,” he said. Speaking about the cultural events organised by the consulate, Hong-yup Lee, Deputy Consul-General, said they were thankful for the active participation and kind support of people from South India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/k-pop-fans-treated-to-scintillating-music/article33318268.ece
13 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Over Rs. 9 lakh seized in raids at checkposts||The Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC) conducted raids in 16 Regional Transport Office (RTO) checkposts and one police checkpost in border districts of Tamil Nadu on Saturday. Close to Rs. 9.18 lakh of unaccounted money was seized. Based on directions from Jayanth Murali, director, DVAC, raids were conducted in the border checkposts of the RTO and police from where corruption complaints arise frequently. The raids started at 5 a.m and went on till evening. Over 100 DVAC officers and personnel were involved in the checks. “The highest seizure was in RTO checkpost at Hosur in Krishnagiri district where close to Rs. 1.85 lakh was seized. This is because there is heavy movement of vehicles from Karnataka. The second was in the Nazarathpettai checkpost near Tiruvallur. The minimum amount was Rs. 5,500 seized at the checkpost at Palani Chettipaty in Theni district,” said a DVAC officer. The DVAC officials also seized close to Rs. 20,800 from the police checkpost at Kaliyakkavilai in Kanniyakumari district. In Vellore, Rs. 1.32 lakh was seized from two inter-State border checkposts at Christianpet and Serkadu. The raids were conducted by a team headed by DSP K.S. Hemachitra. In Theni, at the RTO checkpost near the Palanichettipatti government bus depot, the police found Rs. 5,500 unaccounted cash. The V&AC DSP Satyaseelan, Inspector Geetha and others questioned the MV Inspector Rajasekar and other staff members. In a similar search held at Puliyarai checkpost in Tenkasi district, the V&AC police seized Rs. 48,000. The team of police had arrived from Tirunelveli and held inquiries at the checkpost situated near Shencottah. The police have directed the staff to appear for further examination, officials added. Flouting rules “The complaint is that some corrupt officials at the checkposts allow vehicles that violate the Motor Vehicles (MV) Act, including overloading, to go after taking a bribe. The unaccounted cash that we seized was for one day. We will be conducting such raids regularly,” said a DVAC officer. The officials said steps would be taken to register cases under the Prevention of Corruption (PC) Act against the officials. “Following this, departmental inquiry will be conducted and necessary action will be initiated against them,” an officer said. Meanwhile, the DVAC officials conducted a surprise check in Virudhunagar and seized unaccounted money to the tune of Rs. 25 lakh and gold jewellery up to 117 sovereigns from two Motor Vehicle Inspectors (MVI). The DVAC and Inspection Cell Officers intercepted the vehicles of two MVIs - Kalaiselvi, MVI, Grade-I, RTO Virudhunagar and Shanmuga Ananth, MVI, Grade-I, RTO Madurai North - on Saturday. When the officials checked the vehicle of Ms. Kalaiselvi, they found Rs. 24 lakh and 117 sovereigns. They found Rs. 1.43 lakh from Shanmuga Ananth’s vehicle. Further investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-rs-9-lakh-seized-in-dvac-raids-at-checkposts/article33318253.ece
13 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Official launches campaign to promote wearing masks||Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan on Saturday launched a campaign to promote wearing of masks at locations where residents gather in large numbers to collect drinking water. Mask campaigns, during water collection at Chennai Metro Water Supply and Sewerage Board (CMWSSB) tanker distribution sites, were launched in various neighbourhoods of Chennai. At least 880 low-income neighbourhoods are expected to be covered in the drive to create awareness on the wearing of masks. A team of officials in north Chennai, led by Dr. Radhakrishnan, visited Royapuram Shaik Maistry Street on Saturday and distributed masks among residents and street vendors. Officials in all zones have been directed to advise residents to wear masks while availing themselves of civic services. The officials explained to residents the need to put on the masks to tackle COVID-19. Officials have created awareness about best practices for prevention of mosquito-borne diseases such as dengue. Some residents in Royapuram complained about inadequate garbage clearance, causing public health problems because of mosquito breeding.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/official-launches-campaign-to-encourage-use-of-masks/article33318232.ece
13 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Dentistry as a viable career option||With the NEET counselling under way, The Hindu Education Plus Career Counselling Series, presented by SRM Institute of Science and Technology, Chennai, hosted a webinar on ‘The Challenges of Dental Counselling during the COVID-19 Pandemic’. The session also looked at the scope of dentistry as a career option. Dhandapani Arunachalam, Consultant Periodontist and Adjunct Professor, Sri Ramachandra Dental College, Chennai, began with a brief introduction to dentistry and its history. He introduced the Dental Council of India and its responsibilities and explained the syllabus of the dentistry course. While explaining the different specialities, he offered tips to students and outlined the opportunities available. S. Senthil Kumar, Endodontist and Professor, J.K.K. Nattraja Dental College, Komarapalayam, pointed out that dentistry focuses on “a part of the body that influences one’s confidence, general health, how you eat, drink, talk and how you are perceived by others”. Offering insights into dentistry as a career option, he spoke of how it could transform the lives of patients. One key highlight of his session was the emphasis on the scope for flourishing dental practices in small or rural towns, where there is a scarcity of dentists. This is an opportunity that could lead to a more service-oriented career, he said. Vivek N., Dean and Head, Maxillofacial Surgery, SRM Kattankulathur Dental College, SRMIST, focused on the NEET and the challenges of dental counselling during the pandemic. He outlined the eligibility requirements for a BDS programme as well as the process of allotment of seats. He explained how the different rounds of counselling work .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dentistry-as-a-viable-career-option/article33318235.ece
13 December 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Humayun Mahal restoration work going on in full swing||The Public Works Department has completed nearly 65% of the work to restore the historic Humayun Mahal in Chepauk Palace complex so far. However, the deadline of the project is likely to be pushed by three months because of challenges faced during the pandemic. With lack of sufficient records or photographs on the original structure that dates back to 1770, it took about six months for the department to design the three-dimensional elevation of the heritage building. “We documented and matched the construction material and the way materials were used in the dilapidated portion of the structure through several photographs to arrive at the 3D elevation,” said an official.  About 70% of the structure was damaged when the Rs. 33.95 crore project was taken up last year. The roof of the single-storey structure collapsed in a fire accident. Work is under way to document the interior portion of the structure as well. Spread over 81,000 sq. ft, the Indo-Saracenic structure has four corridors and a connecting corridor to another heritage structure, Kalas Mahal. Some of the challenging portions of the project, including reconstructing the Madras terrace roofing, has been completed. About 70% of the complex traditional technique, Mughal wall plastering, has been finished. “Nearly 100 skilled masons are engaged in the work now. Burma teakwood has been sourced for the 108 doors in the structure. There are no windows. We are working on the floor design and plan to procure Athangudi tiles to match with the original,” said an official. Complex task The PWD is all set to start yet another complex task that demands intricate workmanship. It would soon begin rebuilding five damaged domes that are 10-foot high and 12-foot wide. There are 18 other smaller domes. The dome work done in the PWD annexe complex would be replicated. Three layers of small bricks and lime mortar would be needed to reconstruct the dome. “Soapnut, sand from the Cauvery river bank, would go into the mix. We have specifically sourced palm jaggery from Kallakurichi and Kovilpatti and lime from Virudhunagar and Kazhugumalai to ensure strength,” the official added. The heritage structure that has eight huge halls on the ground floor was used as a revenue building by the British. It later housed offices of the agriculture press, social welfare, record rooms of transport and commercial tax departments. The PWD is mulling over a suggestion to retain the heritage structure as a monument to enable people to appreciate its distinct architectural style, restoration efforts and the city’s rich history. The project is expected to be completed by August next year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/humayun-mahal-restoration-work-going-on-in-full-swing/article33318250.ece
13 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC pulls up Puducherry govt., CENTAC on medical entrance||The Madras High Court has criticised the government of Puducherry and its Centralised Admission Committee (CENTAC) for issuing a prospectus for medical admissions this year and then making a claim that the three private medical colleges in the Union Territory must hand over 50% seats to the government quota. Justice N. Anand Venkatesh said, “This court is really surprised regarding the stand taken by the first [the government] and second [CENTAC] respondents. If these respondents are very sure that 50% quota is enforceable against the private institutions, it could have been made very clear in the prospectus itself. “Instead, a prospectus has been issued by the second respondent by showing only 55 seats (by each college out of their permitted intake of 150) under the government quota. The contention that the number of seats mentioned in the prospectus is tentative, and subject to change, is a very weak defence.” The judge made the observations while dismissing a batch of writ petitions filed by a group of medical seat aspirants seeking a direction to Sri Manakula Vinayagar Medical College and Hospital, Pondicherry Institute of Medical Sciences and Sri Venkateshwaraa Medical College and Research Institute to allot 50% (75 seats each) of their intake capacity to the government quota. Senior Counsel Hema Sampath, AR.L. Sundaresan and advocate Abhishek Jenasenan, representing the colleges, claimed the batch of cases was a proxy litigation preferred by the government. They argued that the rules of the admission could not be changed after the issuance of the prospectus. It was also brought to the notice of the court that the Puducherry legislature passed a Bill this year to ensure that private medical colleges share 50% of their seats with the government. The Bill was approved by Lieutenant-Governor Kiran Bedi and was forwarded to the Union Home Ministry. However, it got returned for certain clarifications. After recording the submissions, the judge said, “It is too late in the day to change the rules of the game after the selection process has commenced for the medical courses. The honourable Supreme Court has time and again held that once the selection process has started, the rule/criteria cannot be changed.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-pulls-up-puducherry-govt-and-centac-on-medical-admissions/article33318236.ece
13 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Women can travel in suburban trains without restrictions||Women can travel in suburban trains without any time restrictions from Monday. The Southern Railway has announced that circular suburban services will resume in Chengalpattu-Kancheepuram-Arakkonam section from Monday. The Southern Railway on Saturday announced that it will permit all women to travel in Chennai Suburban trains without any time restrictions on all days of the week. Similarly children, up to the age of 12, accompanying the women will also be permitted to travel. “Earlier, women and children aged below 12 accompanying them were allowed only during non-peak hours. Now, that has been withdrawn in Chennai suburban trains,” said an official. Similarly, the Southern Railway announced that circular suburban services will resume in the Chennai Beach-Chengalpattu-Kancheepuram/Tirumalpur section from Monday. This is expected to benefit a large number of office-goers and other commuters travelling from Kancheepuram, Arakkonam and surrounding areas. The Southern Railway has appealed to all passengers using suburban train services to follow COVID-19 safety protocol. The passengers are requested not to enter the station and train without wearing a mask, not to crowd while boarding and de-boarding the train and maintain physical distancing on station premises and on board the train.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/women-can-use-suburban-trains-without-restrictions/article33318244.ece
13 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Margazhi classical music contest gets over 600 entries||Young musicians have sent around 600 entries to The Hindu Margazhi Classical Music Competition that came to a close on Saturday. The competition that was open for both Carnatic and Hindustani styles of music was announced on December 2. Due to restrictions in view of the COVID-19 pandemic, online video entries were sought and responses poured in from throughout the world. Youth from as far as Tokyo, Dubai and the U.S. and those from places in India, including Mumbai, Mangaluru and Thrissur have sent in their entries. Renowned musicians and gurus, apart from The Hindu staffers well trained in music, will evaluate the entries over the next few days. The judges for the competition are musician and dance scholar and writer Sujatha Vijayaraghavan, violinist LN Sisters and gurus M. Lalitha and M. Nandhini, Mridangist and guru Erode Nagaraj and Hindustani vocalist and guru Lalitha Sharma. The panel also includes The Hindu’s in-house music experts Meera Srinivasan, who covers Sri Lanka, is a student of Lalgudi Jayaraman and Garimella Subramaniam, an editorial writer who is a music critic and a student of M. Balamuralikrishna. Ms. Vijayaraghavan is Founder – Organising Committee Member of Natyarangam, Narada Gana Sabha Trust and Executive Committee Member of The Music Academy. As a musician, she has provided vocal support to her mother and vocalist Ananthalakshmi Sadagopan for over three decades. She has composed kritis and nursery rhymes in Carnatic music. Ms. Lalitha and Ms. Nandini are internationally acclaimed violinists and composers. The sisters began singing and playing the violin at an early age having grown up as the fourth generation in a family of musicians. Their grandfather was the late Lakshminarayana Iyer who was a great musician. Mr. Nagaraj, is the prime disciple of Umayalpuram K. Sivaraman. He served as lecturer in the Thanjavur Vaidyanatha Iyer School for Percussion, The Music Academy, Chennai, for eight years from 1998. He is an A-Grade artiste in All India Radio and Doordarshan. Chennai-based Ms. Sharma, an exponent of the Mewati Gharana of Hindustani Classical music, has trained in Carnatic classical music and is the founder of Pandit Jasraj Schools in Florida, Atlanta and Los Angeles, U.S.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/the-hindu-margazhi-music-contest-gets-over-800-entries/article33318266.ece
13 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Sorga Vaasal’ barred for public at Sri Parthasarathy temple||The public will not be allowed to witness the opening of the ‘Sorga Vaasal’ on Vaikunta Ekadesi at the Sri Parthasarathy Perumal temple in Triplicane on December 25 this year. The opening of the ‘Sorga Vaasal’ usually takes place early in the morning. During normal times those with special passes used to be allowed to have darshan. However, this time owing to COVID-19 restrictions, devotees who possess passes obtained online only would be permitted inside the temple after 6.15 a.m. The public can book passes on thewww.tnhrce.gov.inwebsite from 22 December using their Aadhaar card. Only one pass would be allowed per person. A press release from the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Department, which manages the temple, said that devotees would be allowed during the ‘Pagal Paththu’ part of the festival from December 16. Similarly, from December 26, they would be allowed during the ‘Raa Paththu’ festivities. The timings during these days will be from 6 a.m. to noon and then again from 4.30 p.m. to 8 p.m. The ‘utsava’ idol of Sri Parthasarathy would not be brought out onto the Mada streets in procession but would be taken inside the temple itself. Those who visit the temple would have to follow protocols and use masks. Elders above the age of 65 and children below 10 years of age have been advised to stay at home.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/public-barred-from-sorga-vaasal-at-triplicane-temple/article33318246.ece
13 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Provide Rs. 30,000 per acre as relief for farmers, says Stalin||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Saturday said Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami should release Rs. 30,000 per acre as relief to farmers whose crops were damaged by the cyclone if he was serious about escaping from their anger. “The tears of farmers will not go waste and lead to the fall of the AIADMK government,” he said in a statement. Mr. Stalin said though the government announced Rs. 74 crore as relief, there were no details about how it would be distributed. “The government claims that it has sought Rs. 3,758 crore from the Centre after the Central team visited the flood affected areas. Even 15 days after the crops were affected, farmers have not been given any assistance so far,” he said. He said while he wanted the government to distribute Rs. 5,000 to people and Rs. 10,000 for farmers as an interim relief, the Chief Minister had not done anything. “Instead he is participating in stone-laying ceremonies for the schemes that will never see the light of the day. He is interested only in projecting himself to gain political mileage,” he alleged. Mr. Stalin said he was told that the AIADMK government was actually planning to give just Rs. 15,000 per acre as it was done in the past. “In the last 10 years that AIADMK government has received just Rs. 6,187 crore from the Centre as a disaster relief fund even though it sought Rs. 1.14 lakh crores. The Chief Minister is using his proximity to the BJP government only to save his chair and is not interested in getting adequate relief to farmers,” he said. The DMK president said Rs. 3,758 crore was not adequate and the State government should ask more from the Centre. “The DMK MPs are ready to put pressure on the Centre to get adequate funds for Tamil Nadu,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/provide-rs-30000-per-acre-as-relief-for-farmers-says-stalin/article33318256.ece
13 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Skill training helps transpersons get jobs, regain faith||A skill training initiative has helped Sarrah Mary in more than one way. Not only did it motivate her and help better her skills, but also fetched her a job in a corporate setup. She now looks forward to her new job and aims to pursue higher studies. The 30-day training had a different impact on Anusha Ganesh. After leaving her job as an account executive in a private firm due to personal issues, the training, the MBA graduate said, helped her overcome a personal struggle by instilling a sense of confidence. Both Ms. Mary and Ms. Ganesh are among 14 persons from the transgender community to undergo training organised by the Tamil Nadu State AIDS Control Society (TANSACS) and Tamil Nadu Skill Development Corporation (TNSDC). TANSACS mobilised the transgender community participants along with NGOs such as Sahodaran and Thozhi for a month-long skill training initiative to fetch them jobs. With funding from TNSDC, PeriFerry, a social start-up, imparted the training, according to Deepak Jacob, project director of TANSACS. “This is a pilot initiative. The idea came up during a meeting with transgender community members in TANSACS. One of the main activities of TANSACS is mainstreaming and advocacy regarding HIV/AIDS prevention and support. So, it was decided to impart skill training to the members so that they can get employed, and thereby not engage in sex work or begging,” he said. A total of 14 participants — 12 trans women and two trans men — underwent the training. As of today, eight of them have offer letters and further interviews are going on, he added. Neelam Jain, founder and chief executive officer of PeriFerry, said they conducted the training programme from November 2. “We wanted to deliver training that will ensure that they get into meaningful jobs. The training covered spoken and written English, soft skills, field visits and interaction with HR professionals. We had external speakers to prepare them for interviews and group discussions,” she said. Nearly 80% of the participants were graduates, she said, adding that Chennai Metro Rail Limited (CMRL), Wipro, Tidel Park, Vedita Ventures, ANZ and SPI Edge interviewed the candidates. “One of them has got the job of front office-administrator in Tidel Park, while CMRL has shortlisted four candidates and is in the final round of discussion,” she said. The startup that primarily works in Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and Telangana has so far enabled 170 transgender persons to get jobs. “I was not able to study when I was young. Then, I realised that age was not an issue and pursued a Bachelor of Tourism Studies through IGNOU. This training has helped in improving my self-confidence, and I look forward to joining work in January. I want to study more,” Ms. Mary said. Mr. Jacob said they had already given orientation through district program managers of TANSACS and District Employment Officers in all districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/skill-training-helps-transpersons-get-jobs-regain-faith/article33318240.ece
13 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Residents raise a stink over Kodungaiyur dump||The stench from the Kodungaiyur dumpyard has engulfed nearby residential areas. While many residents say it is nothing new for them, the recent rain has made it unbearable. A cross-section of the residents of Krishnamoorthy Nagar, Ezhil Nagar and Rajarathinam Nagar said repeated attempts to reach the authorities concerned in the Greater Chennai Corporation had been in vain. Ganesan Perumal of Krishnamoorthy Nagar, who is the secretary of Ever Vigilant Citizens Welfare Association, said that usually the rains would worsen the situation. But this year it was worst. “Several hundreds of residents in Krishnamoorthy Nagar, Ezhil Nagar, Rajarathinam Nagar, Bharathi Nagar and Nethaji Nagar have been suffering because of the dump. The odour is unbearable and we have been trying to reach the Corporation authorities for the last few days. One officer said they would look into it but nothing has been done,” he said. At times, lorries dumped the waste collected from the slaughterhouse at Pulianthope at midnight, and this aggravated the problem. “The stench is always there. Only that the rain has worsened it,” a resident of Ezhil Nagar added. Saradha of Korukkupet, who passes by the yard in a share auto every day, said she could feel that the foul smell had turned worse in the last few days. An official of the Corporation said they had received complaints from the residents. “This problem arises during the rains. We are attending to the complaint and are spraying bleaching powder as the leachate is causing the stench,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/residents-raise-a-stink-over-kodungaiyur-dump/article33318248.ece
13 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Four held for attempted murder||The Pallavaram police on Saturday arrested four persons in connection with an attempt to murder an owner of an eatery. The police said Ismail, 48, a resident of Thandu Mariamman Koil, ran a briyani eatery. On Wednesday, while he was standing near the eatery, miscreants, who arrived on bikes, surrounded him and hurled petrol bombs at him besides attacking him with knives. They fled the spot and an injured Mr. Ismail was taken to hospital. The police arrested Rizwan, 30, Kishore, 24, Naveen Kumar, 22, and Vijay, 24, who were holed up at Thiruneermalai. They said Aneesh and Rizwan had previous enmity with the victim.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/four-held-for-attempted-murder/article33318668.ece
13 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Two more arrested in car loan racket||The Anti-Bank Fraud Wing of the Central Crime Branch (CCB) has arrested two more persons for their alleged involvement in facilitating car loans from nationalised banks in the city. The suspects have been identified as S. Ravi, 50, and M. Sakkaraipandian, 37, of Kodungaiyur who acted as middlemen for the fraudsters who were arrested last month. They facilitated sanction of loans to fraudsters based on forged documents, the police said. The fraud came to light when Thillai Govindan, manager of Punjab National Bank, Velachery, complained to the police. A special wing of the city police had detected the racket and arrested three persons for cheating the banks by misrepresentation of facts and producing forged documents. On November 27, the police arrested Mohammed Musamil 34, T. Ayyathurai, 32, and B. Balvijay, 35, who gave false addresses in Neelankarai and Muttukadu. The gang had been reported to be absconding for the last two years after obtaining loans to buy high-end cars by pretending to be wealthy businessmen, and then failed to repay loan. Police said search was on to trace other suspects.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-more-arrested-in-car-loan-racket/article33318221.ece
13 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Dak Adalat on December 23, 24||The Department of Posts will conduct a Dak Adalat at 10 a.m. at Anna Road HPO on December 24. The public can send their grievances regarding postal services, money order, registered articles, savings bank and savings certificate either todoannaroadhpo.tn@ indiapost.gov.inor hand it over at the post office on or before December 21. A divisional level dak adalat will be held on December 23 at the office of the Senior Superintendent of posts, Central Division, Sivagnanam Road, T. Nagar. Compla ints may be sent by post or email viadochennaicitycentral.tn @indiapost.gov.inor whatsapped on 9444751906. Pension Adalat On the same day, a pension adalat would be conducted from 4 p.m. Pensioners can send in details of complaints on the same email address or WhatsApp number.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dak-adalat-on-december-23-24/article33318257.ece
13 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Jayakumar ridicules Kamal Haasan||Fisheries Minister and the ruling AIADMK’s organisation secretary D.Jayakumar on Friday ridiculed Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM) founder Kamal Haasan for his decision to begin his election campaign. Accusing the MNM leader of having remained indoors and stayed away from rendering any public service in all the eight months after the outbreak of COVID-19 pandemic, Mr. Jayakumar told reporters that Mr. Haasan had decided to undertake the visit only for the purpose of garnering votes which would not cut ice with people. “Those who are carrying out politics through social media will not be able to generate any impact,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/jayakumar-ridicules-kamal-haasan/article33318591.ece
13 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tamil Isai Sangam to webcast music festival||The 78th annual Isai Vizha of the Tamil Isai Sangam will begin on December 21, but COVID-19 has necessitated its conversion to a virtual event. “In a way, it has offered us an opportunity to experiment with technology. The festival will be held for five days and we cannot have events throughout the day. Instead, we will webcast two concerts,” said Valli Arun, a trustee of the sangam, said. No award ceremony Sangam president and former Vice-Chancellor of Thanjavur Tamil University E. Sundaramurthy will inaugurate the festival. But there will be no award ceremony this year. The first day will feature a concert by Sirkazhi G. Sivachidambaram. There will be no concerts on December 22. Every day the first concert will be between 5.30 p.m. and 6.30 p.m. and the second concert will be between 7 p.m. and 8.30 p.m. Tamil Isai Sangam has revamped its website to facilitate the webcasting of the music festival. “We are the cultural partners of the Yaadhum Oore — Global Conclave-2020 and it is a learning experience. We are seeking to create a sabha experience through the webcast,” Ms. Arun said. The concerts are being recorded and the website of the sangam already has the list of concerts and the artistes who are performing in the season. Tickets are available online. The season ticket is Rs. 1,000 and for the foreigner it will be $40. “We are setting up a permanent canteen on the premises of Tamil Isai Sangam. Since our organisation is in the midst of a commercial hub, it will benefit the floating population,” she said. Ms. Arun, who is instrumental in setting up a permanent exhibition of musical instruments and instruments used by famous artistes, said in the future the recordings of the great musicians in the archives of the Sangam would be digitised.  In a way, it has offered us an opportunity to experiment...we cannot have events throughout the day  Valli Arun  Trustee||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tamil-isai-sangam-to-webcast-music-festival/article33318233.ece
13 December 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Case against A. Raja for remarks against CM||Former Union Minister and DMK MP A. Raja has been booked by Central Crime Branch (CCB) of Chennai city police following a complaint from AIADMK’ legal wing for allegedly making abusive remarks against Chief Minister Edappadi K.Palaniswami and former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa. He was booked under sections 153 (Wantonly giving provocation with intent to cause riot) and 505 (1)(b) (with intent to cause, fear or alarm to the public, or to any section of the public whereby any person may be induced to commit an offence against the State or against the public tranquillity) of Indian Penal Code. The FIR was registered by CCB-I unit on Friday after taking up the complaint lodged by AIADMK’ s legal wing office-bearers C. Thirumaran and S. Selvakumar, who are State joint secretaries. They alleged that while addressing mediapersons recently, Mr. Raja made abusive remarks against Jayalalithaa and Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/case-against-a-raja-for-remarks-against-cm/article33318252.ece
13 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Man held for killing girl, abetting wife’s suicide||Kotturpuram police on Saturday arrested a 53-year-old man for allegedly killing his 14-year-old daughter and abetting his wife to end her life. The police identified the suspect as G. Geethakrishnan, 53, who was living with wife Kalpana, 36, a Hindi teacher, and their two daughters on Bajanai Koil Street, Pallipattu, Taramani. On Wednesday morning, owner of the house alerted the police about the deaths of Kalapana and one of her daughters while Geethakrishnan and his three-year-old child were missing. The police nabbed Geethakrishnan and interrogated him. During interrogation, he reportedly confessed that he was in debt and he and wife decided to end their lives along with their children. Both murdered the 14-year-old daughter and Kalpana ended her life. Later, Geethakrishnan changed his plan and immediately left the house with his three-year-old daughter. Police arrested him and remanded him in judicial custody. Child rescued The child was handed over to relatives of the family. Those in need of counselling can contact State’s helpline 104 or Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050 for counselling.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-held-for-killing-girl-abetting-wifes-suicide/article33318224.ece
13 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||MNM sets up wing on environment||Makkal Needhi Maiam has appointed 11 members as State-level secretaries and formed the Environmental Wing attached to the party on Saturday. A party circular said environmental activist Padmapriya had been appointed as the State secretary of the wing. Eight party members were appointed as State secretaries and two others were appointed as deputy State secretaries of Engineers Wing, Media and Public relations, Data and Research teams and HQ campaigners.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mnm-sets-up-wing-on-environment/article33318242.ece
13 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Vijayakant to meet district secretaries today||DMDK founder Vijayakant will meet the party’s district secretaries in Chennai on Sunday. The party contested the 2019 Lok Sabha elections in alliance with the AIADMK and the BJP. Recently, the AIADMK coordinator and Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam and co-coordinator and Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, said their alliance with the BJP would continue, in the presence of Home Minister Amit Shah.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vijayakant-to-meet-district-secretaries-today/article33318372.ece
13 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Body dumped in pond||A 29-year-old history sheeter was hacked to death by a gang and his body was dumped in a pond at Ambattur Industrial Estate. The Ambattur Estate police have launched a manhunt to nab the suspects. The police said the name of the victim was given as Sathish, 29, of Mangalapuram near Ambattur. He had more than 20 criminal cases against him. He went out on Thursday and did not return home. His relatives searched for him at several places and his mobile phone was switched off. They lodged a complaint with the police. His body was found floating in a pond and was retrieved by Fire and Rescue Service personnel. Police said he was last seen drinking with his relatives and could have been hacked to death following a drunken brawl.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/body-dumped-in-pond/article33318225.ece
13 December 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Concrete mixing on land meant for planting saplings flayed||The Marumalarchi Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (MDMK) State youth wing secretary V. Easwaran has condemned the move by the State Highways Department to give space for preparing concrete mixture on a land that was earmarked here to plant saplings. According to Mr. Easwaran, as many as 951 trees were cut here for road works by the National Highways wing of the State Highways Department in 2011-2012. According to a Supreme Court order, for every tree cut, 10 saplings should be planted. However, the department had not planted any sapling and hence, he filed a case against the department. The Madras High Court issued an order in this regard and the department assured the court that it will plant saplings on its land on Avinashi Road and Sathyamangalam Road here. It planted about 4,000 saplings on Avinashi Road land in 2016 and installed drip irrigation facilities to water the saplings. However, now, just adjacent to the area where the saplings are planted, the department has given space for other purposes and concrete mixing machines have been installed. “Pits were dug there to plant about 1,200 saplings. The saplings were not planted and the land has been given for construction material preparation. This is in violation of the assurance given to the High Court. Further, even the drip irrigation lines have been removed in the area where the saplings were planted,” he alleged. The entire area should be used for sapling planting only, he said. Mr. Easwaran said if the Highways Department continues to permit work on the site for preparation of construction materials, he will take legal action for contempt of court order. “I took up the issue with the officials on Friday and they stopped the concrete mixing work. They have sought two days time. The officials have assured me that they will stop the concrete mixing work on the site,” he said. Another official of the department said that of the 10 acres available with it on Avinashi Road it planted saplings on three acres. It has leased out only 1.5 acres for two years for use by the company that will construct a flyover on Avinashi road. Further, the lease is under the condition that the workers at the site will take care of the saplings planted so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/concrete-mixing-on-land-meant-for-planting-saplings-flayed/article33318273.ece
13 December 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||TNSTC increases number of buses in district after relaxations||The Coimbatore Division of Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC) has increased the number of buses in the district after the State government permitted the buses to be operated with 100% capacity. Officials said that 860 buses were operated on Saturday in the district, of which 280 were mofussil and 580 were town buses. While nearly 90% of the total fleet of buses are now being operated by the division, the State government is yet to allow operations of inter-State and air-conditioned buses, the officials said. On December 7, the State government issued an order that allowed State Transport Undertakings (STUs) to operate at 100% capacity. Since September 7, the buses were allowed to operate only with 60% capacity in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. The government order also stated that the STUs must continue to follow the standard operating procedures (SOPs) inside the buses. Hence, all the drivers and conductors will continue to wear masks inside the buses and only those passengers with masks will be allowed to board the buses as per the SOPs, the officials said. However, officials claimed that there has not been a major increase in the number of commuters using the TNSTC buses in the district. On an average, only around 3.94 lakh passengers travel in TNSTC buses in the district every day, as opposed to 8.26 lakh passengers travelling per day before the lockdown. The collections have taken a hit too, as TNSTC now earns about Rs. 62 lakh a day, while the pre-COVID-19 earnings per day were nearly Rs. 1.24 crore, the officials added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tnstc-increases-number-of-buses-in-district-after-relaxations/article33318277.ece
13 December 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Hunting of water birds continues in tanks of Coimbatore||Hunting of water birds such as pelicans, storks, cormorants and few migratory species continues in the tanks of Coimbatore. Unknown men were seen catching Spot-billed pelicans using a novel technique at the Ukkadam tank on Saturday morning. Udhagamandalam-based naturalist S. Anandan saw three men engaged in catching pelicans at the tank in the busy part of the city. “I stopped my vehicle on the side of the tank while going to Madukkarai. I saw one man wading through the water wearing a pot with holes (for vision) on his head holding two pelicans in both hands. Another man was holding one pelican. A third person, who wore the same headgear, was also seen in the tank,” said Mr. Ananadan, who is also an avid birder. As Mr. Anandan had stopped his car on the side of Ukkadam – Perur bypass, which led to a traffic congestion, he was forced to move the vehicle. However, he informed the Forest Department about the incident. Hunting of pelicans, cormorants and storks have been reported in other tanks in the city, too. “I had seen fishermen killing cormorants at Singanallur tank where fishing itself is banned as per a board placed at its entrance,” said a Coimbatore-based independent water bird researcher. According to experts, an adult pelican weighs around four kg and it eats more than 1 kg of fish a day. Fishermen might see large flocks of pelicans as a big threat as the birds can reduce the size of their catches from tanks, they said. Pelicans, cormorants and storks are protected under Schedule IV of the Wildlife (Protection) Act. Spot-billed pelican and painted stork are named as ‘Near Threatened’ species in the IUCN Red List of Threatened Species. District Forest Officer D. Venkatesh said a team of officials from the Forest Department was sent to Ukkadam tank soon after the incident was reported. Though a team led by Assistant Conservator of Forests C. Dinesh Kumar conducted inquiry with the fishermen and people in the locality, they could not get the whereabouts of the bird hunters. I. Anwardeen, Additional Principal Chief Conservator of Forests (Coimbatore Circle), said that the department staff will monitor the tank in the coming days to trace the offenders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hunting-of-water-birds-continues-in-tanks-of-coimbatore/article33318375.ece
13 December 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Valuers Bill expected to be passed soon||The draft Valuers Bill 2020 is expected to be passed soon, P.K. Thiagarajan, president of the Institution of Valuers (IOV), said here on Friday. Mr. Thiagarajan told presspersons that a Committee of Experts formed by the Central Government had taken inputs from all the stakeholders and drafted the bill. There is a delay in the bill getting the nod because of the pandemic and is expected to be passed soon, even in the next session of Parliament. When passed, the valuation profession will get regularised. There will be continuous education programmes for the professionals and standards will come into place for valuation. Other countries have their own standards for valuation of various assets. “It (standards) will come with the Valuers Bill. It is part of the bill,” he said. A National Institute of Valuers will be formed to offer courses in valuation. This year, the Institute (IOV) has started entering into Memorandum of Understanding with educational institutions to give an insight to students into the opportunities available in the valuation profession. It has entered into an agreement with Kumaraguru College of Technology here. The number of approved valuers in the country is about 30,000 and registered valuers is nearly 4,000. The number is high in Tamil Nadu and Puducherry. Earlier, speaking at the inaugural of a two-day national-level conference of the Institute here, he said that when the Bill is enacted, the valuers will understand the value of the profession. "India will become a valuation hub, globally," he said. Goutham Senguptha, chairman of the governing board of IOVRVF (IOV Registered Valuers Foundation), urged the valuation professionals to adopt the advances in technology. Industrialist Kothai Dinakaran inaugurated the conference.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/valuers-bill-expected-to-be-passed-soon/article33318272.ece
13 December 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||DVAC seizes unaccounted cash from RTO checkposts||Sleuths of the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC) seized unaccounted cash totalling Rs. 1,71,900 from three Regional Transport Office (RTO) checkposts in Coimbatore and the Nilgiris districts during surprise checks conducted on Saturday morning. In Coimbatore district, a DVAC team led by Deputy Superintendent of Police T.H. Ganesh inspected the RTO checkpost at K.G. Chavadi, near Kerala border. Vigilance personnel seized Rs. 87,000 from the checkpost. “Motor vehicle inspector Saroja, assistant motor vehicle inspector  Arul and office assistant Jeyakumar were on duty at the checkpost. A case has been registered against them", said Mr. Ganesh. DVAC had seized unaccounted cash of Rs. 91,000 from Saroja, Arul and two others from the same checkpost on October 23 this year. “We had registered a case against the two officers. To our surprise, the Road Transport Authority did not remove them from checkpost duty,” said Mr. Ganesh. Another DVAC team conducted an inspection at the Gopalapuram RTO checkpost and found unaccounted money of Rs. 50,200. DVAC booked motor vehicle inspector Senthilkumar, assistant motor vehicle inspector Srikanth, and a tout Nasar, who were at the checkpost. According to Mr. Ganesh, the accused collected bribe from drivers of goods vehicles heading to Kerala and those entering Tamil Nadu for various violations, including overloading. In the Nilgiris, vigilance sleuths inspected the checkpost on Gudalur - Mysuru Road. The DVAC team led by inspector Seetha Lakshmi seized unaccounted cash of Rs. 34,700 from the checkpost where motor vehicle inspector Rajasulochana and assistant motor vehicle inspector Sibi Jacob were on duty.  According to DVAC officials, Road Transport Authority staff in the two districts are also accused of collecting items such as vegetables and fruits from drivers of good vehicles at checkposts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dvac-seizes-unaccounted-cash-from-rto-checkposts/article33318283.ece
13 December 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Man found dead||A 27-year-old man from Ramanathapuram district was found dead with his throat slit at his residence in Coimbatore on Saturday. The police identified the deceased as R. Karthikeyan, who was staying in a rented house with his parents and a brother at Kamatchipuram. Police said Karthikeyan had been working in a private company. He was not going for work for a month and had quarrelled with his father and brother on Friday night. He was found dead on the road in front of his house with his throat slit. A razor and a knife were found at the place. The police suspect that the man ended his life, allegedly due to depression. Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-found-dead/article33318282.ece
13 December 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Two killed in elephant attacks in Coimbatore, the Nilgiris||Two persons were trampled to death by wild elephants in Coimbatore and the Nilgiris districts on Friday night and Saturday morning. In the first incident, A. Nagamuthu, a resident of Kannampally at Cherangode near Gudalur in the Nilgiris, was trampled to death by a wild elephant late on Friday. The incident took place at Kannampally around 8.45 p.m., said forest officials Second person Nagamuthu is the second person to have been killed in the attack of wild elephants in the Gudur Forest Division this week. On December 8,another person was trampled to deathby a wild elephant at Manvayal near Gudalur. Gudalur forest range officer G. Ramakrishnan said the Forest Department handed over Rs. 50,000 of the Rs. 4 lakh given by the government as solatium to the family of the deceased as immediate relief. In another incident, a 75-year-old man from a village near Thondamuthur in Coimbatore district was killed in the attack of a wild elephant on Saturday morning. The deceased has been identified as P. Arumugam from Vanjiamman Nagar. Forest Department officials said that a male elephant entered Vanjiamman Nagar near Thondamuthur, around 3.5 km from the nearest forest boundary, in the early hours of Saturday. According to the officials, Arumugam was standing in front of his house around 6.30 a.m. and the tusker pushed him down as it was passing through the place. The elephant trampled him, and he died on the spot. The same elephant also chased two youngsters from the village and pushed them down. The duo, K. Arusamy (19) and K. Muthu (18), managed to escape with minor injuries. Arumugam's body was taken to the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital for a post-mortem. Frontline staff of the department drove the tusker back to the forest. Officials added that Rs. 50,000 will be given to the family of the deceased as immediate relief. Arumugam is the 16th person to have been killed in elephant attacks reported in the Coimbatore Forest Division this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-killed-in-elephant-attacks-in-coimbatore-the-nilgiris/article33318284.ece
13 December 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||LMW wins award for innovation||Coimbatore-based textile machinery manufacturing major Lakshmi Machine Works has received the Confederation of Indian Industry’s (CII) “The Most Innovative Company of the Year - 2020” award. The company said in a press release that the CII Industrial Innovation Awards were instituted in 2014 to identify innovative Indian enterprises across industry sectors. Recently, the CII announced the awards through an online function and the textile machinery division of LMW won the award. The CII follows a process for selecting the winners and conducts an audit that evaluates the vision statement of the competing companies, the innovation process, methodology, alignment of employees towards innovation goals, products that emanate from the system, benefits that accrue to the customer etc. In the first round, the top 25 innovative companies are identified based on bench-marked parameters. The selected companies are then evaluated by a jury. The textile machinery division of LMW won the award for three products it had developed and sold commercially recently - FixFil, Lap former LH20S and Speed frame LF 4280 SX. These three are new technologies that provide better efficiency, occupy less space, and are smart machinery.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lmw-wins-award-for-innovation/article33318373.ece
13 December 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Tension over damage to flex board||Tension prevailed on 80 Feet Road at Ramanathapuram in the city on Saturday morning after unknown persons tore a flex board that was placed in respect of freedom fighter U. Muthuramalinga Thevar. The flex board kept at Makaliamman temple was found torn, following which members of organisations, including Mukkulathor Pulipadai, staged a road blockade, said the police. The Ramanathapuram police reached the spot and held talks with the protesters who alleged that communal forces were behind the desecration of the photo. The protesters vacated the place after inspector S. Murugesan pacified them and assured them of tracing the persons involved in the act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tension-over-damage-to-flex-board/article33318279.ece
13 December 2020||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||4 killed in multi-vehicle collision at Thoppur||Four persons were killed and five others grievously injured in a pile-up involving 15 vehicles in the Thoppur Ghat on Saturday. It resulted in a traffic snarl running up to a few kilometres along the Salem-Bengaluru National Highway. The pile-up occurred after a speeding truck rammed a line of vehicles that had slowed down along the ghat road because of an earlier accident. Earlier in the afternoon, another accident involving a two-wheeler and a mini-van caused a traffic jam. The area was being cordoned off by the police when the Salem- and Coimbatore-bound weekend traffic accumulated on the ghat stretch. It led to a long-winding jam. Earlier accident A Salem-bound truck rammed into multiple vehicles before it came to a halt. The crash triggered a pile-up of 12 cars, two mini-lorries and a motor bike, claiming lives. The dead were Kannan, 40, of Dharmapuri, who was on a two-wheeler; Madhan Kumar, 42, and his driver Karthik, 38, both from Omalur in Salem; and Nithyanandan, 35, from Coimbatore. Those with grievous injuries were taken to the Salem government medical college hospital and the Dharmapuri government medical college hospital. The truck driver, who caused the pile-up, escaped. Dharmapuri Collector S.P. Karthika and Minister for Higher Education K.P. Anbalagan visited the spot. ‘Redesign Thoppur road’ PMK youth wing leader Anbumani Ramadoss said the Thoppur road should be redesigned. “More than human errors, the main reason why accidents take place in the area is the absurd design of the road. The PMK has filed a case in Madras High Court but the National Highways Authority of India is refusing to do it. This is the reason for the accidents,” he said. “During 2017-18, NHAI officials, the traffic police, along with L&T engineers, looked into the road and presented a plan to redesign it at a cost of Rs. 140 crore. While the Centre initially accepted it, the plan was put on hold on the basis that it can be corrected when the Salem-Bengaluru Highway is converted into a six-lane road. These types of accidents could be averted,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/4-die-in-multi-vehicle-collision-at-thoppur/article33318230.ece
13 December 2020||Dindigul,TAMIL NADU||Two held for murder||The police solved a murder case that was reported on December 4 and arrested two persons, including a juvenile, on Saturday. Following a complaint that Manikandan, 48, of Govindapuram was missing, SP Ravali Priya directed the police to register a case. According to the complainant, the man was working in a private school on Dindigul-Tiruchi Road as a manager. He used to consume liquor and walk long distances. On December 7, a body was found abandoned near the RM Colony electric crematorium. The family identified the body as that of Manikandan. A team led by DSP Manimaran and Inspector Vinodha through CCTV images zeroed in on the victim, who was last seen near Govindapuram Bus Stand on Palani Road. A closer image captured Manikandan in conversation with two persons on a motorbike. The team found that the two-wheeler was a stolen vehicle. They caught hold of a suspect and realised that the victim had been killed by the duo, who were drug addicts. They were also identified as homosexuals. The police identified the key accused as Gochabai alias Sivakumar (22) of Meenakshi Naickenpatti and another 16-year-old juvenile.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-held-for-murder/article33318363.ece
13 December 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Man arrested for murdering his newborn||A 30-year-old man was arrested on the charges of murdering his 19-day-old baby boy at Anthiyur here on Saturday. Mani of Chennampatti Colony, a borewell rig worker, is married to Pavithra and the couple has a girl child. On November 3, she delivered a boy baby at the District Headquarters Hospital at Erode. On November 22, the couple informed villagers that the baby suffered from breathlessness while consuming milk and died. Mani and his brother Ranjith (25) buried the body at the backyard of their house. A few villagers raised suspicion over the death of the baby and alerted Childline officials, who informed the Anthiyur and Vellithiruppur police. Body exhumed Chennampatti Village Administrative Officer Tamil Selvi lodged a complaint with the Vellithiruppur police and a case was registered. A team of doctors from the Government Erode Medical College and Hospital, Perundurai, exhumed the body in the presence of police and revenue officials and found injuries at the back of the child’s head. Police confirmed it as a case of murder and were on the lookout for Mani. On Saturday, Mani surrendered before the village administrative officer, who handed him over to the police. Suspects wife’s fidelity  In his confession statement, Mani said that the villagers told him that the baby did not look like him and hence, he suspected his wife’s fidelity. He took the child from Pavithra while she was sleeping, beat it and later drowned it in the water tank in the house. After the child died, he placed it near Pavithra and made her believe that it died of breathlessness. Sections were altered to murder and Ranjith was also included as an accused for disposing of the body. Both were arrested and produced in the court and lodged at the Coimbatore Central Prison. Childline operates a toll-free helpline for children in distress – 1098.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-arrested-for-murdering-his-newborn/article33318380.ece
13 December 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Arrangements made for small traders to set up shop at VOC Park Ground||The Erode Corporation has constructed 22 additional shops for small traders at the VOC Park Ground where the Nethaji Daily Vegetable and Fruit Market is functioning temporarily. Due to the COVID-19 pandemic in March, over 700 vegetable and fruit shops that were functioning on the market premises on R.K.V. Road were shifted to the Corporation Central Bus Stand premises. After resumption of bus services, a temporary market was established at the four-acre ground owned by the civic body and shops started functioning there from June. Initially 450 shops were established and later 220 shops were added. Following requests from small traders, whose shops were located near the market premises on R.K.V. Road, to allot shops on the new market premises, the civic body constructed 22 shops. Corporation Commissioner M. Elangovan said that the 22 shops would be allotted only to the small traders who can carry out their business and ensure their livelihood.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/arrangements-made-for-small-traders-to-set-up-shop-at-voc-park-ground/article33318382.ece
13 December 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Farmers to stage indefinite protest against farm laws||To express support to the farmers protesting against the farm laws in Delhi, members of the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC) will stage an indefinite protest in front of the Collectorate starting December 14. The coordination committee members, A.M. Munusamy and K.V. Ponnaiyan, said that the farm laws were intended to benefit only the corporate companies and not the farmers as claimed by the Central government. Farmers from various States were staging protests in Delhi from November 26 demanding repeal of the laws and the BJP-led government was not paying heed to their demands. “Hence, AIKSCC will commence indefinite protest in front of the Collectorate,” they said. Members said that political parties and various associations would be joining hands with them and take part in the protest to be staged until the laws were repealed. The members said that the Tamil Nadu Vanigar Sangangalin Peramaippu, Erode district, has extended their support by providing rice and essential commodities for preparing food at the protest venue. They said that its district secretary R.K. Shanmugavel has written to all the traders to extend their support to the protesters from December 14.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-to-stage-indefinite-protest-against-farm-laws/article33318379.ece
13 December 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Private schools can hold online exams: Minister||Private schools can conduct the half-yearly examinations online and the government has no objection to it, School Education Minister K.A. Sengottaiyan said on Saturday. Speaking to journalists at Gobichettipalayam after inaugurating development projects, he said the half-yearly examinations for government schools were postponed and private schools could conduct them if they wanted to. Asked whether the syllabus would be revised, Mr. Sengottaiyan said the questions would cover only those lessons that were taught and a detailed statement in this regard would be released in a few days. As for former Minister Thangam Thennarasu’s demand for a White Paper on the issue of non-purchase of Sahitya Akademi books for libraries, the Minister said the government was doing its duty, and there was no need for any White Paper.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pvt-schools-can-hold-online-exams/article33318241.ece
13 December 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||458 cases resolved in Tirunelveli||A total of 2,431 cases were resolved and Rs. 5.72 crore was settled during the lok adalat held at various courts in the district on Saturday. The courts had taken up 3,470 cases for consideration at the Lok Adalat. Besides, judicial officers, led by Virudhunagar District Principal and Sessions Court Judge, A Muthusaratha, advocates and court staff took part in the adalat. One of the major beneficiaries of the Lok Adalat was S. Mayakrishnan, of Kalangaperi near Rajapalayam. Mayakrishnan has been rendered bed-ridden after a road accident. He was brought to the District Court Complex premises in an ambulance. The Judge, Muthusaratha, who is also the chairperson of the District Legal Services Authority, walked to the ambulance and handed over an order to pay Rs. 15.50 lakh towards compensation after his case was settled at the adalat. DLSA secretary K. Mariappan was present. In the lok adalat held in Ramanathapuram, a total of 591 cases out of 971 cases were settled and the total settled amount was Rs. 5.20 crore. In Sivaganga, 61 out of 486 cases were settled and the settled amount was Rs. 2.13 crore. Similarly, at the lok adalat held in Theni 184 cases out of 5,419 cases were settled and the settled amount was Rs. 15.40 crore. In Dindigul, a total of 123 cases were settled and the total settled amount was Rs. 5.54 crore. Tirunelveli A total of 458 cases out of 2,003 cases were settled during the national-level lok adalat that was held in Tirunelveli on Saturday. The total amount that was settled was Rs. 12.25 crore. A total of 143 cases out of 997 cases were settled during the lok adalat that was held in Thoothukudi. The total amount that was settled was Rs. 2.78 crore. A total of 143 cases out of 1,143 cases were settled in Kanniyakumari and the total settled amount was Rs. 3.62 lakh. Madurai A total of 1,018 cases out of 2,400 cases were settled during the national-level Lok Adalat held at the Madurai District Court here on Saturday. The total settled amount was Rs. 9.38 crore. The highlight of the lok adalat was settlement of Rs. 40.50 lakh to a man from Madurai who had injured his right leg in an accident near Chennai in 2018.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/2431-cases-resolved-in-virudhunagar/article33318369.ece
13 December 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Advocate says ‘injustice’ done during virtual court hearing||After an advocate cried out ‘injustice’ following the pronouncement of a judgement that went against her, the Madurai Bench of Madras High Court expressed pain over the incident that took place during a virtual court hearing, on Friday. A Division Bench of Justices N. Kirubakaran and B. Pugalendhi observed that the counsel, after knowing that the matter had gone against the respondent she was representing, started making allegations against the court saying that injustice was done. The court observed that the counsel submitted that it was very unfortunate that the court had passed the judgement in the writ appeal without hearing her arguments and she was under the impression that the writ appeal preferred against her would be dismissed. The outcry of the counsel amounts to contempt of court and also needs a reference to the Bar Council of Tamil Nadu and Puducherry for taking disciplinary proceedings against her, the judges observed. However, taking into consideration the fact that she had a grievance, that she needs to be heard further in detail and since the order was not signed yet, the court said that it will provide one more opportunity to the counsel to put forth her further arguments in this matter. “Whatever may be the proceedings or the result of the proceedings, a senior member of the Bar ought not to have stooped down to the level of making allegations against this court. We are pained by the representation made by the counsel appearing for the respondent, who was a leader of the bar for some time and also a senior member. If this kind of attitude is going to be encouraged, it will send a wrong message to the juniors, who are all watching the court proceedings,” the judges said. The case was adjourned till December 14.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/advocate-says-injustice-done-during-virtual-court-hearing/article33318582.ece
13 December 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Patient suffering from Parkinson’s disease gets relief||A 61-year-old man, who was suffering from Parkinson’s disease for the past few years, got relief through an implant at Apollo Speciality Hospitals here. Speaking to reporters, the doctors said he was given Deep Brain Stimulation (DBS), sort of ‘pacemaker’ for the brain, similar to the pacemaker of the heart. It involves transmitting certain electrodes in parts of the brain which regulate electrical impulses to neutralise abnormal impulses that cause motor movement disorders. The amount of stimulation is controlled by a pacemaker-type device installed under the skin of the chest which is connected to the electrodes through wires that travel under the skin. The patient, after a successful career of being a sales manager in an automobile company, was diagnosed with Parkinson’s disease. The doctors said the disease was a disorder of the brain wherein degeneration of specific parts result in diminished levels of Dopamine, which results in tremors, muscle stiffness, slowness of movement and imbalance in walking, leading to repeated falls. He was totally dependent on caregivers. A ray of hope was given by a team of neurologists S. Meenakshi Sundaram, S.N. Karthik and P. Suresh, neurosurgeons D.Shyam, S. Sundararajan and Kevin Joseph along with neuro-anesthetist Nisha and intensivist Padmaprakash. Hospital Director Rohini Sridhar commended the team.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/patient-suffering-from-parkinsons-disease-gets-relief/article33318581.ece
13 December 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Bad condition of roads deplored||The Communist Party of India (Marxist) members, led by its district secretary R. Vijayarajan, petitioned Madurai Corporation Commissioner here on Friday, highlighting the abysmal condition of roads in Madurai city. While several roads have remained damaged for a long period of time, the condition of these roads has deteriorated following the recent rains. Most of these roads have developed potholes and craters, causing severe inconvenience to road users, said Mr. Vijayarajan. “Whenever it rains, stagnant water fills these potholes, making it difficult for vehicle users to identify danger spots,” he added. Whenever roads are dug for laying underground drainage pipelines or underground cables for telephone connections, they are not properly closed. As a result, huge pits are formed in the roads whenever vehicles travel on them. Private contractors as well as corporation officials do not take steps to address the issue. Roads near Periyar bus stand are severely battered causing difficulties for road users. Several arterial stretches like Workshop Road, Chinnakadai Street, Masi Streets, Pechiamman Padithurai Road and roads of Arasaradi, Aruldosspuram, Maravar Chavadi, Jaihindpuram, Palanganatham, South Gate, Munichalai, Meenambalpuram and Sellur are in a poor state of condition. “The civic body must relay all these stretches,” said Mr. Vijayarajan. The civic body must take steps to arrest discharge of sewage and dumping of garbage into water channels across the city, he demanded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bad-condition-of-roads-deplored/article33318585.ece
13 December 2020||Nagercoil,TAMIL NADU||Missing fisherman’s body found||The body of a missing fisherman Sesayyan from Thuthur, was found by the Indian Coast Guard personnel on Saturday night.  It is said that a group of 12 fishermen had ventured in a mechanised boat from Kochi harbour on Dec. 7. Four were from Kanniyakumari district, including Sesayyan, and eight others belonged to Nagapattinam and Cuddalore districts. When they woke up on Dec. 8, Sesayyan (69) was missing. The authorities carried out search operation and spotted the body.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/missing-fishermans-body-found/article33318707.ece
13 December 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||38 new cases reported in U.T.||The Union Territory has recorded 38 new COVID-19 cases from tests conducted on 1,809 people on Saturday. Data released by the Health Department revealed that 17 persons in the Puducherry region were diagnosed with the novel coronavirus while 15 new cases were recorded in Mahe. The Karaikal region reported six new cases, the data said. With the latest new admissions, the active cases stands at 346, including 209 hospitalisations and 137 home quarantines. As on Saturday, there are 72 patients under treatment at JIPMER and 20 at the Government Medical College. Since the outbreak, 619 people have succumbed to the virus in the Union Territory. While a total of 37,444 people got infected, 36,479 persons recovered. So far, 43,1982 persons have been tested for the virus, the data revealed. In a weekly message to the people of Puducherry on Saturday, Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi expressed concern over the growing number of cases in Mahe. She urged the people there to get themselves tested when the mobile screening vans reached their locality. According to a senior official in the Health Department, a team of specialists from Puducherry are camping in Mahe to coordinate with GH doctors. As per the direction of Health Minister Malladi Krishna Rao, the Director of Health Department S. Mohan Kumar himself visited Mahe a day ago. The Department has decided to increase the testing rate in Mahe. “We are now testing around 500 and the minister has directed us to increase testing if the need arises. By next week, we will have around 20 mobile COVID-19 screening vans doing the rounds to collect samples,” a senior official told The Hindu . Nominated legislator and BJP local unit president V. Saminathan, in a statement, urged the government to extend the services of nursing officers temporarily recruited for COVID-19 duty for three more months. The tenure of the temporarily recruited staff ended five days ago, he said, adding that taking into account the situation, the service of the nursing officers should be utilised for a few more months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/38-new-cases-reported-in-ut/article33318672.ece
13 December 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Debutante artiste bags award in Marathi feature||Abhirami Bose, debutante actor hailing from the city, has won the Best Actor Feature (Female) at the Global Indian Film Festival 2020, Jaipur, for her role in Marathi feature film Ratricha Paus (Nocturnal Rain). The film, directed by Shine Ravi, also fetched the Best Film and Best Music awards at the festival. “I was in the green room preparing for my next film when the producer called to break the news. I could barely control my excitement,” said Ms. Abhirami, who is an alumnus of the Kendriya Vidyalaya Jipmer in Puducherry, now living in Mumbai. With the nocturnal shoot schedules of her upcoming Bollywood mainstream entertainer leaving her to sleep off the fatigue through the morning, it wasn’t until Friday afternoon that Ms. Abhirami took to social media to celebrate the achievement. “Proud moment for the whole team of Ratricha Paus. We won three awards last night,” she wrote on her Facebook page. “I owe this to all my teachers, including my parents who have guided me and taught me whatever little I know,” she wrote. Ms. Abhirami, who is daughter of musician P.V. Bose who fronts the band TranSwaras, had graduated in psychology course from Christ University, Bengaluru, before enrolling in an acting course at the Film and Television Institute of India, Pune. Surprising offer She was in the final semester of the course around May last year when Mr. Ravi called on his professor friend at the FTII for help with casting. Ms. Abhirami’s name was suggested by a faculty member in the sound engineering department who thought she was a perfect fit to play Mansi, the protagonist of the story of Ratricha Paus — a soulful tale of peasant woman from a drought-stricken village who moves to a big city in the hope of a better life but gets entrapped in the seamy side of brothels and traffickers. “We did the audition right there in the sound engineering room of the institute. Fortunately, the director too was convinced that I was the right choice for the role,” she said. The shooting for Ratricha Paus began in July, 2019, and was completed over the next two months — the coronavirus pandemic has stalled the film’s theatrical release. Dubbing for the film loomed as a challenge as she was only faintly familiar with Marathi even though her mother is a Maharashtrian. “Though the director offered to hire a professional dubbing artist, I wanted to lend my voice to the character though it took some hand-holding by colleagues on the set”, said Ms. Abhirami. “I am now glad and proud that I did.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/debutante-artiste-bags-award-in-marathi-feature/article33318667.ece
13 December 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||CM must issue white paper on Collector’s position: CPI(M)||The Communist Part of India (Marxist) has demanded a white paper from Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy on the District Collector’s post in Puducherry. In a statement, CPI (M) Secretary R. Rajangam said there were reports that District Collector T. Arun, who was on medical leave due to COVID-19, was not allowed to take back his responsibility after getting completely cured. The party doubted a “political conspiracy” behind the decision not to allow Mr. Arun to resume his duties. The Chief Minister should state whether there was a political motive and official level intervention in preventing Mr. Arun from taking charge again, he said. Lauding the Collector for his work during the pandemic time, Mr. Rajangam said the Collector worked in coordination and was on the field in containing the spread of the virus. He also understood the issues of poor and downtown and functioned accordingly. The statement said the treatment meted out to such an officer would demoralise hard working officers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-must-issue-white-paper-on-collectors-position-cpim/article33318670.ece
13 December 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||French Institute plans wetland photo contest||Entries are open for the 3rd Wetland Photographic competition organised by the French Institute of Pondicherry (IFP), as part of the Pondicherry Heritage Festival from January 29 to February 12, 2021, and in celebration of World Wetlands Day, falling on February 2. The cut-off date for submission of entries is January 10. Up for grabs for winners in various categories are a net worth of prizes up to the value of Rs. 50,000 and the top entries would also be exhibited at the IFP for a month from January 31 during the heritage festival. According to the IFP, the free photographic competition open to all is hosted on the theme of wetlands and biodiversity in Tamil Nadu and Puducherry regions, with an aim to raise public awareness of the rich, cultural and natural heritage values of regional wetlands. Scientists estimate that 87% of the world’s wetlands have been lost in just 300 years. The key drivers behind this crisis are pollution, land conversion and drainage. Ecologists also warn that one million animal and plant species are threatened by extinction if the situation is not remedied.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/french-institute-plans-wetland-photo-contest/article33318665.ece
13 December 2020||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||Three persons killed as SUV overturns||Three persons were killed when a Sports Utility Vehicle (SUV) in which they were travelling overturned near Kodumbalur junction on Tiruchi-Madurai road on Saturday. The deceased were identified as K. Faisal Gani, 45, K. Mohammed Rizath, 38, both brothers from Athikulam in Madurai, and S. Abubakkar, 48, of Kodanginayakkanpatti near Nilakottai in Dindigul district. They were on the way to Tiruchi from Madurai. All of them died on the spot. The driver was said to have lost control of the vehicle and it subsequently went upside down and fell into a roadside ditch, the police said. N. Abuthahir of Goripalayam in Madurai, the driver of the vehicle, who sustained injuries, has been admitted to the Government Hospital in Manapparai. Viralimalai police have registered a case. and are investigating||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-killed-as-suv-overturns-on-highway/article33318356.ece
13 December 2020||Ramanathapuram,TAMIL NADU||Credit plan for Ramanathapuram released||Collector Dinesh Ponraj Oliver on Saturday released the NABARD’s potential linked credit plan envisaging a credit flow of Rs. 4706.78 crore for 2021-22. Speaking to reporters, he said that the credit requirement of short term crop loan was estimated at Rs. 3049.68 crore and total credit potential for agriculture including agriculture infrastructure and allied activities was Rs. 3400.87 crore. The estimates for the micro, small and medium enterprise sector stood at Rs. 193.11 crore. As per the revised guidelines on priority sector lending by the RBI, credit potential for agriculture infrastructure, export credit, education, housing, renewable energy and among others involving bank credit was estimated at about Rs. 840 crore. The projected estimates for 2021-22 was 10.25% higher than the previous fiscal year, he added. He urged officials to expedite the process of overall development of agriculture and allied activities by exploiting the identified potential. He said the PLP 2021-22 has been prepared keeping in mind the Centre’s push for doubling farmers’ income in the next two years. Mr. Oliver stressed the role of Farmers Producers Organisation (FPO) in enhancing the farmers’ income through aggregation of farm produce, value addition and collective efforts to market linkages. In addition, he also informed that efforts would be made to promote more FPOs in the district through NABARD that support exclusively Animal Husbandry (goat and indigenous cow rearing) and fisheries sector thereby enhancing additional income for the farmers. The NABARD district development manager T. Ashok Kumar said that the NABARD had been bringing out the district-wise PLP since 1989. It forms the basis for Annual Credit Plan prepared by banks every year. The PLP highlights the need for enhancement of agricultural term loans and the need for greater credit flow for the off farm sector for creation of sustainable local employment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/credit-plan-for-ramanathapuram-released/article33318366.ece
13 December 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Observer reviews roll revision in Salem||The Electoral Roll Observer for Salem district, M.Vallalar, reviewed the progress of electoral roll revision here on Saturday. Mr. Vallalar also interacted with the representatives of various political parties at the Salem Collectorate and heard their grievances on the revision process. Party representatives complained that there was lack of sufficient forms at booths and requested for details of new applications in Tamil. Mr. Vallalar told them that necessary measures would be taken. Special camps According to election officials, as per the draft electoral roll released on November 16, there are 14,79,280 male voters, 14,82,124 female voters and 164 transgender voters in the district. The forms for deletion, inclusion and edits in voter details are being received till December 15 and final electoral roll would be released on January 20. Special camps will be held at 1,163 polling booths in the district on December 13. As per a release, of the 86,364 forms received till December 11, as many as 52,136 forms were for name inclusion, 20,972 forms for deletion of names, 9,346 ‘form 8’ for correction of voter particulars and 4,089 ‘form 8A’ for transposition of elector from one part of Assembly constituency to another. One person has filed ‘form 6A’. District Revenue Officer R. Dhivakar, Election Tahsildhar K. Maheshwari and other senior officials attended.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/observer-reviews-roll-revision-in-salem/article33318386.ece
13 December 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Salem Corpn. launches plogging activity to make city litter-free||Salem Corporation Commissioner N. Ravichandran on Saturday launched a plogging activity at a few residential areas here to turn the city litter-free. Mr. Ravichandran along with Hasthampatti Assistant Commissioner K.M. Saravanan and volunteers launched the plogging exercise at Shankar Nagar near Hasthampatti. The programme has been launched in partnership with residents’ associations and non-governmental organisations. The Commissioner said in a press release that morning walkers would be provided with a bag, stick and other safety equipment and they could collect litter found along the way. Besides improving health, it would help in keeping the environment clean, he said. On Saturday, besides Corporation officials, 100 volunteers from Ishan Karthik Nanbargal Kuzhu, No Food Waste, Salem Ilaignyargal Kuzhu, Chenna Krishnapuram Resident Association took part in the plogging exercise at Shankar Nagar, Rajaram nagar, Tamilsangam Road and collected 650 kg plastic waste. Mr.Ravichandran said, “It is being planned as a public movement so that there was more public participation in keeping the city clean. Several voluntary organisations have expressed interest in taking part in this exercise. We hope that the public would develop a sense of responsibility to keep their premises clean as the programme gains momentum.” He added that at the moment, they are planning to conduct the exercise once a week, mostly on Saturdays between 6 a.m and 9 a.m. . Salem Corporation has invited volunteers to be part of the programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/salem-corpn-launches-plogging-activity-to-make-city-litter-free/article33318388.ece
13 December 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Silver anklet manufacturers hit by GST, says MP||Member of Parliament from Salem S.R. Parthibhan charged that the silver anklet manufacturers in Salem were severely affected by the Goods and Services Tax (GST) and many had lost their businesses. Mr. Parthibhan launched his election campaign as part of ‘Vidiyalai Nokki Stalinin Kural’ at Veerapandi Assembly constituency here. The MP interacted with the public from different walks of life including silver anklet manufacturers, palm tree workers and others. Mr.Parthibhan told presspersons that silver anklet manufacturing, a cottage industry in Salem, had suffered severely under the GST regime and many were forced to leave the industry. “People in various parts of the district are complaining about lack of basic amenities and the State government has not taken any measures in this regard,” he said. Mr.Parthibhan alleged that while the Centre was taking steps to privatise Salem Steel Plant, the State government has not taken any measures to deter the Centre from the move. He alleged that over 2,000 acres of land acquired for the Steel Plant has not been utilised. The MP also alleged that though a defence manufacturing hub was announced for Salem no steps were taken on this regard.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/silver-anklet-manufacturers-hit-by-gst-says-mp/article33318389.ece
13 December 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Unaccounted cash seized from govt. official’s car||Sleuths from the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC) seized Rs. 3.5 lakh in unaccounted cash from the car of a government official here. Based on a tip-off, the sleuths intercepted the vehicle of K. Kanagaraj, Assistant Director of Town Panchayats, and seized Rs. 3.5 lakh in unaccounted cash packed in two cloth bags, sources said. The officer allegedly received monthly kickback for clearing bills under various heads like street-light maintenance, water supply maintenance and sanitation. There are 53 Town Panchayats under the officer. DVAC officials have registered a case and are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/unaccounted-cash-seized-from-govt-officials-car/article33318384.ece
13 December 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Modi’s brother visits Salem temple||Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s brother Prahlad Damodardas Modi visited Sri Ayyappa Temple, near Kuranguchavadi, here on Saturday and offered prayers. National president of organisation He is the national president of the Pradhan Mantri Jan Kalyankari Yojana Prachar Prasar Abhiyan, an organisation creating awareness among the people of the schemes being run by the Narendra Modi government for the poorest. Praises people of T.N. Speaking to journalists later, Mr. Prahlad Modi conveyed his greetings to actor Rajinikanth on his 70th birthday. He said the people of Tamil Nadu contributed greatly to the freedom movement and then to the development of the country. He said his visit was aimed at carrying forward the Prime Minister’s vision of housing for all by 2022.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/modis-brother-visits-salem-temple/article33318251.ece
13 December 2020||Staff ReporterCHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Donning up as Thalaivar Rajinikanth, with love||Thirty-eight-year old S. Balasubramaniam works as a supervisor in a private company here. S. Thirugnanam takes pictures for a living at Erode. K. Kadhar repairs borewell machines in Thiruchengodu. They have 17 other friends in different districts. What binds them and brings them together is their love for their Thalaivar.  On Saturday morning, these bunch of ardent admirers of the superstar got dressed up as some of the famous characters he has donned over the years —from Rajadhi Raja to Enthiran, and arrived in front of actor Rajinikanth’s residence at Poes Garden to wish him on his 70th birthday. The idea to come to Chennai and visit him was mooted as early as January. Though COVID-19 put off the planning for months together, it gained momentum yet again in the last week of November, says Balasubramaniam, who came dressed up as Raja from Raajadhi Raja . “We created a group on WhatsApp to propagate the ideals that he stands for, ahead of the polls. Now, we wanted to use it also for doing something special as a tribute for his birthday. We rented out a hall two days ago and decided who dons which character, hired costumes and happily wore Thalaivar’s look for a few hours,” he says. Splurging on costumes Each of them spent anywhere from Rs. 3,000 to as much as Rs. 30,000 for this day. Thirugnanam earns nearly Rs. 20,000 a month, but splurged it all to turn into Enthiran. “ It doesn’t matter how much we spent. For such a great man, we want to do at least this. Though I love all of his films, Aaril Irundhu Arubadhu Varai always stays close to my heart, ” he says. Why this undying love for Rajinikanth? “Humility,” Kadhar says, instantly. “Name another star for whom fame has not gotten to his head. This man is an inspiration for us in more ways than one,” he adds. After watching Anbulla Rajinikanth he began helping those around him to the best of his ability, he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/spending-a-fortune-to-don-superstars-attire-on-his-birthday/article33318228.ece
13 December 2020||Tenkasi,TAMIL NADU||‘AIADMK has failed to protect the interests of farmers’||The DMK, if elected to power in the 2021 elections, would immediately redress the grievances and representations from farmers, said A. K. S. Vijayan, state secretary of the farmers’ wing here on Saturday. Speaking at a farmers’ meeting organised by the party’s district functionaries as part of its election campaign, he said the DMK was instrumental for creating infrastructure facilities for farmers in Tamil Nadu. Giving importance to their welfare, the TN Farmers Welfare Board was established. However, the AIADMK did not care to protect farmers in any form but was supporting the BJP. Farmers from many northern States have been protesting in New Delhi braving the cold conditions. The time has come for the end of the AIADMK rule and a new era would start with the leadership of M. K. Stalin, he added. Beedi workers and brick kiln workers in the region presented memorandums seeking assistance. They complained that the brick kiln industry faced a lot of problems and employers had shut down the facilities. As a result, the workers were rendered jobless and needed assistance and alternative livelihood. The DMK leader, who has been campaigning here for the second day, addressed the farmers in Kadayam block, Madhapuram and other villages in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-has-failed-to-protect-the-interests-of-farmers/article33318709.ece
13 December 2020||Theni,TAMIL NADU||Land identified for IT park in Theni||A 10-acre land on the Theni-Annanji Pass near the new bus stand has been identified for construction of a IT park, said Deputy Chief Minister O Panneerselvam here on Saturday. After inspecting the proposed site, accompanied by District Collector M. Pallavi Baldev and other senior officers, he told reporters that the State government would examine the modalities of constructing the Information Technology Park. There were some technical aspects to be looked into and once clearance was given, a formal announcement about the cost of building and other details would be made. With so many IT companies showing interest in setting up their offices in south TN cities like Madurai, Tirunelveli and Tenkasi in the last few years, it was proposed to earmark the land for setting up an IT Park here as well. He also said that some leading IT players, including a few MNCs, have shown interest to set up their offices here. “He added that apart from government land, land belonging to some private owners too would be taken for the project. Under the MLA Constituency Development Fund, he opened four Anganwadi centres, a community centre and a PDS outlet all at a cost of Rs. 2.04 crore in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/10-acre-land-identified-for-it-park-in-theni/article33318362.ece
13 December 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Potholes on Shastry Road irk residents||Residents and shopkeepers on Shastri Road here complain that the poor condition of the road causes inconvenience to road users, including pedestrians. While the adjacent Thillai Nagar Main Road gets a facelift regularly, the Shastri Road is ignored, they say. Shastri Road is an arterial road that connects Karur Bypass Road to Thennur and Anna Nagar. City and mofussil buses take this road to reach Central Bus Stand. However, with the recent rains, large potholes have formed across the length and breadth of the road. “We have been living here for over 20 years, but with increasing number of commercial establishments and vehicles on the street, the road quality is becoming worse,” a resident said. The large potholes cause backaches and other injuries to motorists, some say. “I have a severe pain in the neck from riding on this road on my two-wheeler often. I work here and have to travel carefully, especially at night, as the potholes are not visible due to lack of illumination,” said Vignesh, who works at a store on the street. “There are several shops and larger commercial establishments on this road, still it is ignored,” he said. Patchwork undertaken by the civic body to repair the road earlier, too, is peeling off at many places. “The quality seems to be really poor, as many of the deep potholes have formed only over the last month, worsening with the rains. Two-wheelers have to zigzag along the road to ensure that they do not fall into one of the potholes. With trucks and buses frequenting this road, it could turn fatal,” Mr. Vignesh said. Bad roads would also cause damage to the vehicle. Meanwhile, corporation officials said they plan to renovate roads. “Since it is monsoon, new roads cannot be laid now. We will soon undertake relaying of roads and carry out patchworks,” a senior official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/potholes-on-shastry-road-irk-residents/article33318704.ece
13 December 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Whistle comes first, water next||A physics teacher in Gandarvakottai in Pudukottai has attached whistles to household drinking water lines on his street to alert residents to the supply of water to their residences. Since air would flow through the pipe before water was pumped through it, the whistles make a sound, informing the residents of the water supply. R. Balamurugan, a physics teacher at Vidhyaa Vikas International School in Gandarvakottai, has been devising innovative ways to be informed of the water supply. Gandarvakottai receives water from the Cauvery Combined Drinking Water Supply Scheme and there are no fixed timings for the supply. “Some days it comes tt comes during the day and on other days late into the night. Since the supply is on a rotational basis across Gandarvakottai, the timing is not fixed,” he said. The residents in Mr. Balamurugan’s locality would have to take turns staying up through the night to wait for water, after which they would fill pots and tanks and then go back to bed. “Many of us work in the day, so staying up through the night was very difficult,” he said. To tackle the issue, Mr. Balamurugan first tied a balloon to the water outlet pipe. “When the air passed through the pipe,the balloon would fill up and burst, alerting me or my wife,” he said. However, many a times the balloon would slip away from the opening or the burst would not be loud enough to be heard. Mr. Balamurugan then fashioned a device by attaching a plastic whistle to pipe through a hole. The whistle was fixed using a sealant in such a way that air passes through it. “Now, the whistle blows before the water flows and the residents are all awakened by its sound,” he said. After the success of his device, neighbours on his street too approached him to make it for them. “There is a need for such a device in the market as many cannot afford to construct large tanks with stoppers and must fill water in pots,” he said. He is willing to share the expertise to any manufacturer who would come forward to make the device.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/whistle-comes-first-water-next/article33318358.ece
13 December 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Daily count remains below 100||The daily count of fresh COVID 19 cases continued to remain less than 100 in the central districts with 97 persons testing positive for the virus on Saturday. A 57-year-old woman with a history of hypothyroidism and an 80-year-old woman with no pre-existing illnesses died of the infection in Nagapattinam. All districts in the region reported below 25 fresh cases for COVID-19 on Saturday. Ariyalur district recorded no fresh cases for the viral infection on Saturday. Tiruvarur reported the highest number of cases with 21 patients testing positive while in Nagapattinam, 18 fresh cases were reported. Meanwhile, Tiruchi reported a significant decline compared to the previous days with 17 fresh cases. Among the patients who tested positive were primary contacts and local cases with no travel or contact history. Some patients with Influenza-Like Illnesses and asymptomatic patients also tested positive. Meanwhile, five patients who hailed from Tiruchi were discharged from the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital after recovering from the viral infection. A total of 15 patients tested positive for COVID-19 in Pudukottai, while in 12 patients tested positive in both Thanjavur and Karur districts, reporting a steady decline. Patients with a history of Severe Acute Respiratory illnesses and Influenza-Like Illnesses, local cases and inter-district travellers tested positive for COVID-19 in both districts. Among the patients who tested positive in Karur were residents of Pugalur, Kulithalai and Gandhigramam among other localities. Meanwhile, Perambalur district reported two new cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/daily-count-remains-below-100/article33318348.ece
13 December 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Part of barrage across Kollidam to be completed by February||The Public Works Department (PWD) plans to complete the southern arm of the new barrage, being constructed across the Kollidam, at Mukkombu by February. The barrage, being built at a cost of Rs. 387.60 crore, will have two arms - southern and northern - across the Kollidam. While the southern arm will run for a length of 628 meters, the length of the northern arm will be 138 meters. The construction work that began in March 2019 is being carried out simultaneously with the deployment of about 100 mechanical, electrical and civil engineers and about 300 skilled and unskilled labourers by L&T, which is executing the project for the PWD. As per schedule, the entire barrage work should be completed by March 2021. According to a daily progress report of the PWD, the work is progressing as per schedule and about 70% has been completed. Construction of piers, pedestal and fixing of shutters are on the right track. “There had been several interruptions and stoppages due to heavy discharge of water in the Cauvery in 2019 and lockdown restrictions. Despite the impediments, the barrage work is progressing well. The southern arm, the lengthier of the two arms, will be ready by February,” said a senior PWD official. Laying of deck slabs of the barrage has started. Establishing pedestals and erection of hydraulic shutters has been undertaken simultaneously. The barrage will have 55 shutters (gates) to control the flow of water. Of them, the southern arm will have 45 shutters and the northern arm the remaining 10 shutters. The mechanical components of all 55 shutters have been completed with a dedicated team of mechanical and electrical engineers at an on-site fabrication unit. One more team of specialists had arrived at the work site to supervise the shutter erection work. The results of the trial run of the shutters were positive. There would not be further disruptions on account of natural calamities at the work site as the north-east monsoon was likely to withdraw within two weeks. Hence, work would be taken up on a full scale. The progress was being monitored on a daily basis so as to complete the work within the stipulated time, the official said.  On schedule 100 engineers and 300 labourers are at work  Deck slabs laying work has started  Specialists have arrived to supervise shutter erection work||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/work-on-part-of-barrage-across-kollidam-to-be-completed-by-feb/article33318255.ece
13 December 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Gold seized at airport||Officials of the Air Intelligence unit of Customs on Saturday seized about two kg of gold from three passengers in Tiruchi international airport. Based on a tip-off, the officials conducted a surprise check of passengers. The officials seized about 1.12 kg of gold from Mohammed Sadiq of Porayar in Nagapattinam district and 896 grams of gold from Mohammed Ziauddin from Thanjavur, who came to Tiruchi from Dubai, and 152 grams of gold from Suresh of Cuddalore, who landed from Singapore. Further inquiry is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gold-seized-from-three-passengers/article33318345.ece
13 December 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Cook murdered in Tiruchi||A 42-year-old man from Sahayamadha Church Street in Golden Rock in the city was murdered on Saturday. Sources said Sampathraja of the same area, the accused, reportedly hit Kanagaraj, a cook, with a boulder on his head under the influence of alcohol. Kanagaraj died on the spot. On information, the Golden Rock police rushed to the spot. The body was sent to the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-murdered/article33318346.ece
13 December 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Protests staged against farm laws||About 270 members of Cauvery Rights Retrieval Movement and other farmers organisations were detained after they attempted to block rail traffic in Thanjavur and Tiruchi districts on Saturday. They were protesting against the three new farm laws and to express solidarity with the protesting farmers in Delhi. About 90 members of the organisation and few other farmers’ associations were taken into custody after they squatted on the railway track in front of the Tiruchi-Chennai special train at Budalur station. As the agitators, who demanded the immediate repeal of the laws, failed to heed of the police plea to disperse, they were taken into custody. The train suffered a delay of about 10 minutes due to the agitation. Thanjavur In Thanjavur, the movement members attempted to lay siege to the office of Central Excise. When they were prevented by the police, the protesters, led by movement coordinator P.Maniarasan, resorted to a road blockade on the Medical College Road. About 150 persons courted arrest. “We demand the immediate repeal of the three laws. We are not prepared to accept any amendments to the anti-farmer laws,” Mr. Maniarasan said. In Tiruchi, the movement members, including Kavithuvan and M.P. Chinnadurai, district president of the Tamizhaga Vivasayigal Sangam, marched from Bharathiar Salai towards the railway junction. On being intercepted, they squatted on the roads briefly. Twenty-four protesters were taken into preventive custody by the police. Meanwhile, a group of members of the All India Democratic Women’s Association (AIDWA) staged a demonstration against the farm laws near the Head Post Office in Thanjavur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/protests-staged-against-farm-laws/article33318359.ece
13 December 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||‘Legal profession is not a moneymaking machine’||Law graduates should not misuse the tool of litigation and must strive to meet the expectations of society, said Justice Amreshwar Pratap Sahi, Chief Justice, Madras High Court, here on Saturday. “The society has high expectations on the legal profession, particularly in the present trying times. The legal profession should not be construed as an instant moneymaking machine. Professional ethics governs the legal profession and should continue to do so in future,” Justice Sahi said, delivering the convocation address at Tamil Nadu National Law University (TNNLU), Tiruchi. The second convocation of the TNNLU was held on a virtual platform in view of the pandemic. Legal professionals should acquire skills, knowledge and capacity for hard work. The dignity of any profession depends on personal conduct, he said emphasising the importance of humility for legal professionals. Lawyers should acquire full knowledge of the subject before they proceed to handle a case. Meticulous preparation is the road to success, Justice Sahi, who is also the Chancellor of the varsity, told the graduates. “Law is not bereft of life. It deals with life and therefore when it comes to regulating life, you have to be careful,” he said. First focus on human considerations while handling any issue and then apply the law, he said. V.S. Elizabeth, Vice-Chancellor, TNNLU, in her annual report, cited the varsity’s initiative to set up a Legal Centre for Women’s Welfare and a Centre for Legal History of South India. She thanked the State government for sanctioning special grant for development of Legal History Museum and hosting the second Legal History Congress. Students of B.A., LL.B.(Hons.), B.Com., LL.B.(Hons.) and LL.M. who have successfully completed their final examinations during the academic years 2018-19 and 2019-20 were presented degrees. While 109 students received B.A. LL.B. (Hons.) degrees, 78 students received B.Com. LL.B. (Hons.) degrees and six students received LL.M. degrees. Seventeen meritorious students received gold medals / endowment awards and prizes, according to a press release from K.R. Leela, Registrar, TNNLU.  Dignity of any profession depends on personal conduct Justice Amreshwar Pratap SahiChief Justice, Madras HC||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/law-graduates-told-to-strive-for-meeting-expectations-of-society/article33318351.ece
13 December 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||CII signs MoU with NIT-T||Young Indians (Yi), a part of the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII), has signed a memorandum of understanding with National Institute of Technology, Tiruchi (NIT-T) as part of its YUVA initiative. Through the MoU, students of NIT-T will be working towards nation-building and youth leadership activities. The MoU was signed by Mini Shaji Thomas, Director, NIT-T, and Ketan J. Vora, Chair, Yi Tiruchi Chapter, C. Pradeep, Yuva Chair, and others, according to a press release issued here on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cii-signs-mou-with-nit-t/article33318360.ece
13 December 2020||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Probable sites for museum at Aditchanallur inspected||A team of officials from Archaeological Survey of India inspected five probable sites for establishing a museum to display the artefacts recovered from Aditchanallur where ancient Tamils lived. The team, led by Superintending Archaeologist Arun Raj, visited five probable sites along with Tahsildar of Srivaikundam Gopalakrishnan. The museum, announced in the Union Budget, is yet to take a shape as the land required for the project has not been finalised. Sources in the revenue department said a 5-acre land close to the archaeologically important site could be earmarked for the purpose. After inspecting the sites, Mr. Arun Raj said his department would forward to the Union Government the list of lands proposed by the State Government’s revenue department for establishing the museum. As the final decision on selection of land would be taken within three months, work on setting up a world-class museum at Aditchanallur would commence afterwards. “ Once the museum is established, the entire set of artefacts will be shifted to the proposed world-class repository,” said Mr. Arun Raj. Writer Muthalankurichi Kamarasu took some of the officials of this team to archaeologically important sites at Seevalaperi, Marudhur check-dam and Ulakkudi near Kaliyavoor, all situated close to the Tamirabharani.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/probable-sites-for-museum-at-aditchanallur-inspected/article33318590.ece
13 December 2020||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Chair in memory of Subramania Bharathi||The Manonmaniam Sundaranar University would establish a chair in the memory of poet Subramania Bharathi, said Vice-Chancellor K Pichumani here on Saturday. Speaking at a meeting to mark the anniversary of the late poet, organised by the Pothigai Tamil Sangam here, he said that the world famous poet belonged to this region. “We should all be proud to be a part of the place, where Bharati was born...,” he added. The poet's forefathers were from Seevalaperi. His wife Chellammal was from Kadayam, he recalled about the connection and added that the MS University had a library in Bharati's name in Ettayapuram. To add one more feather in the cap, the VC said that the University would soon establish a chair in Bharathi's name, which would be a fitting tribute to the great poet. The poet will always be remembered for his songs, which were not only meaningful, but also conveyed a social message. It will be green forever, he said. The university, Dr Pichumani said, would play a pivotal role through the creation of the chair, which would facilitate students and research fellows to pursue their higher education programme. Kavingnar Pera presided. A book titled ‘Sol Bharati Sol’ was released on the occasion by the Vice-Chancellor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chair-in-memory-of-subramania-bharathi/article33318592.ece
13 December 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Palladam Municipality cracks down on single-use plastics usage||The Palladam Municipality seized about 70 kg of banned single-use plastics in the past week as part of intensifying the crackdown on plastic usage. According to Municipal Commissioner M. Ganesan, a total fine amount of around Rs. 16,000 was collected from many commercial establishments following the seizure. The crackdown was initiated after reports emerged of increase in usage of single-use plastics within the municipal limits since the relaxation of the COVID-19 lockdown in the past few months, he said. Residents must come forward to use cloth bags during shopping. Those who come across single-use plastics being used in the municipal limits may contact the officials at 94430 95762 via WhatsApp and necessary action will be initiated, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/palladam-municipality-cracks-down-on-single-use-plastics-usage/article33318275.ece
13 December 2020||TIRUPPUR,TAMIL NADU||Three arrested for stealing from garment firm||The Tiruppur City Police on Saturday arrested three men on charges of stealing items worth Rs. 1.75 lakh from a garment company. The police said that R. Harikrishnan (20), M. Gowtham (28) and P. Rajesh (34) allegedly stole sewing thread weighing around 3,300 kg, garments weighing 400 kg and a CCTV recorder from the company at Kamaraj Nagar on December 3. Sivakumar, the garment company's owner, recently sold some of his equipment to the accused for Rs. . 8.5 lakh. They paid Rs. 3 lakh in advance and assured him that the rest of the amount would be paid within 60 days. However, they later demanded the advance amount, to which Mr. Sivakumar replied that he had to sell the equipment to repay the amount to them. Following this, the accused allegedly stole the items and absconded, the police said. The Tiruppur North police registered a case against the three on December 4 and a special team began a search for them. The police they arrested the three on Saturday and recovered all the stolen items. They were remanded in judicial custody on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-arrested-for-stealing-from-garment-firm/article33318377.ece
13 December 2020||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Vellore district sees 28 fresh infections||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 19,771 with 28 new cases reported on December 12. While a total of 19,088 have been discharged, the active cases in the district stands at 345. The district’s death toll is 338. In Ranipet district, 15 cases were reported positive taking the total to 15,748. In Tirupattur district, the total number of positive cases stands at 7,342 with eight new cases on Saturday. In Tiruvannamalai district, nine new cases were reported, taking the total number of cases to 18,881. Out of this, 18,481 patients have been discharged and the number of active cases currently stands at 124.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vellore-district-sees-28-fresh-infections/article33318669.ece
13 December 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Karnataka police nab kidnap case accused near Sattur||A team of Karnataka police arrested Raviraj, an accused in connection with the recent kidnap case of former Kolar MLA R. Varthur Prakash after a hot chase near Sattur on Friday. However, another accused identified as Rohit, 29, who was brought by the team as part of their ploy to nab Raviraj, managed to give a slip to the police. No case has been preferred by the Karnataka police in Virudhunagar district, according to local police sources. The police said that Mr. Prakash and his driver were abducted on November 25. The abductors had reportedly demanded Rs. 30 crore ransom for their safe release. However, they released him after taking Rs. 48 lakh as the driver managed to escape from their clutches. Sources said that Rohit was set free by the police team near Sattur toll gate to enable him join Raviraj so that the police could follow him and arrest Raviraj. However, after joining Raviraj in a car, Rohit alerted him about the police plan and the duo tried to escape. The police, in private vehicles, chased the accused for nearly 10 km. The outsiders, who did not know the escape route, got into a farm near Reddiyapatti under Elayirampannai police station limits. As their car got stuck in the loose soil, the duo took to heels. While police managed to nab Raviraj, Rohit made good an escape amidst wild growth. Drone used The Karnataka police searched for him, using a drone they got from a local studio, but in vain. The issue drew the attention of local police after residents alerted them about the hot chase created a flutter in the rural area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-nab-kidnap-case-accused/article33318705.ece
13 December 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Cash and jewels seized from two MV Inspectors||Sleuths of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption on Saturday seized over Rs. 25.50 lakh from two personal cars of Motor Vehicle (MV) Inspectors from Virudhunagar and Madurai North. Acting on a tip-off that Kalaiselvi, MV Inspector, Grade-I, Regional Transport Office, Virudhunagar, gets money from a broker, they kept a watch on her movement. Accompanied by Inspection Cell Officer Senthivel, a team of DVAC led by Deputy Superintendent of Police, P. Karuppiah, found bags being handed over to occupants of two cars. The teams intercepted the cars before they could cross the police check-post at Chathrareddiyapatti on Virudhunagar-Madurai district border. They were taken to the RTO office for interrogation. Source said that they recovered 117 sovereigns of gold jewellery and over Rs. 24 lakh from the car in which Kalaiselvi was travelling. They recovered Rs. 14.3 lakh from the car in which MV Inspector Shanmuga Ananth, Grade-I, RTO Madurai North, was travelling. The teams also picked up a broker, identified as Arul Prasad, who is an employee of a two-wheeler dealer in Virudhunagar. He was found in possession of Rs. 7,850. The teams had got information that Kalaiselvi used to go to her native place in Salem district with weekly collections on every Fridays or Saturdays. “Arul Prasad had been acting as the chief collection agent who would collect the bribe from driving schools and other brokers who would seek fitness certificates, registration of vehicles and renewal of licenses for their clients,” an official said. The money would be handed over to her when she would leave for home. “As she could not go home last week due to bad weather the two-week collection was handed over to her on Saturday,” he added. The sleuths suspect that Anand was escorting her as she was carrying huge sum of money. Kalaiselvi told the sleuths that her husband, Raja, who had come from Salem a few days back, had brought the jewels fearing for their safety in their locked home at Salem. All valuables seized were recorded and a report would be sent to the headquarters for further action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cash-and-jewels-seized-from-two-mv-inspectors/article33318710.ece
13 December 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Placement agency to be roped in under crop insurance scheme||The Department of Agriculture has invited applications from registered placement agencies for providing temporary employees to take up crop cutting experiments under the Revised Prime Minister’s Crop Insurance Scheme. The placement agencies, with a minimum of three years experience, should provide details of their experience and service charges meant for the above work to the Joint Director (Agriculture), District Collectorate premises, Virudhunagar, Virudhunagar Collector, R. Kannan, said in a statement. The details can also be sent through e-mail toagrivngr@gmail.combefore 6 p.m. on December 14. The agencies should appoint undergraduates and diploma-holders in agriculture-related studies along with knowledge in operating computers, who could select the crop cutting experiment plots and monitor harvesting work. The agencies could also consider retired employees from the Department of Agriculture and Department of Statistics for the temporary job for which the monthly consolidated pay would be Rs. 15,050.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/placement-agency-to-be-roped-in-under-crop-insurance-scheme/article33318364.ece
13 December 2020||December 13 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Erode district crosses 13,000 mark||As many as 120 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Coimbatore district on Saturday, taking the overall tally to 50,317. The Health Department said that the district had 992 COVID-19 patients under institutional care on Saturday. According to the department, 104 persons from the district recovered from the disease and got discharged from hospitals on Saturday. The district’s death toll reached 629 after a 30-year-old patient died at the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital on Friday. Tiruppur district reported 65 fresh cases. The overall tally stood at 16,142 cases. No deaths were reported on Saturday, according to the Health Department. A total of 15,400 patients have recovered and 531 were active cases. The district reported 211 deaths overall. A total of 68 patients were discharged from various treatment centres on Saturday. Erode district crossed 13,000-mark in terms of the number of people tested positive for the disease, so far. A total of 41 new cases were reported in the district taking the district’s tally to 13,007. While 49 persons were discharged, 356 continue to be under treatment. So far, 142 deaths were reported. Forty positive cases were reported in Salem, the lowest in recent times. According to health officials, 38 cases were indigenous, including 14 in Salem Corporation limits. Two patients have returned from other districts like Ariyalur and Dharmapuri. As per the bulletin, a 65-year-old woman died at private hospital in Salem. In Namakkal, 36 cases were reported. Health officials said five patients have returned from other districts like Erode, Thuraiyur and Salem. Udhagamandalam district had 181 patients under treatment. This included 15 persons, who tested positive for the disease on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/120-positive-cases-in-coimbatore-district/article33318281.ece
13 December 2020||December 13 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Rail blockade bid opposing NMR charter service||Members of various political parties, organisations and trade unions attempted a rail blockade at Mettupalayam on Saturday, demanding Southern Railway suspend the charter service of the heritage Nilgiri Mountain Railway (NMR). The protesters also wanted the Southern Railway to resume operation of the MEMU train service between Coimbatore and Mettupalayam. The police stopped around 100 protesters led by K. Ramakrishnan, general secretary of Thanthai Periyar Dravidar Kazhagam (TPDK), while attempted to block the railway track to Udhagamandalam at Mettupalayam around 7 a.m. The police detained and removed 79 persons, including three women. They were released on bail in the afternoon. The charter train left from the station for Udhagamandalam at 8.30 a.m. Members of TPDK, Congress, Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam, Marumalarchi Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam, Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI), Tamil Nadu Muslim Munnetra Kazhagam, Manithaneya Makkal Katchi, Adi Tamilar Peravai, All India Trade Union Congress, Centre of Indian Trade Unions, Puthiya Thalaimurai Makkal Katchi, Makkal Athikaram, Tamil Puligal Katchi and Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi took part in the protest. The police detained 15 members of the SDPI who attempted to stage a rail blockade at Udhagamandalam railway station in protest against the charter service. They were released on bail later.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rail-blockade-bid-opposing-nmr-charter-service/article33318376.ece
13 December 2020||December 13 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Field Mutharaiyars in at least 33 constituencies’||The Mutharaiyar Joint Action Committee has urged political parties in the State to field Mutharaiyars as their candidates in at least 33 constituencies in the forthcoming Assembly elections. The committee, in a resolution adopted at a meeting, also welcomed Chief Minister Edappadi K.Palaniswami’s announcement that a commission would be set up to conduct a survey for collecting caste-wise data in Tamil Nadu, said S. Paneerselvam, Coordinator of the committee, here recently. The committee also wanted all the 68 communities in the list of denotified communities to be termed as denotified tribes (DNT) in the community certificates, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/field-mutharaiyars-in-at-least-33-constituencies/article33318343.ece
13 December 2020||December 13 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||NGOs invited to carry out sterilisation drive||The Tiruchi Corporation invites non-governmental organisations with certification from Animal Welfare Board of India to carry out sterilisation of dogs. The special Animal Birth Control (ABC) centre set up by the civic body in Konakkarai can be used for the purpose. Interested NGOs can submit a letter to the Corporation on or before December 18. The drive would begin as soon as an NGO is selected for the purpose, a release said. Thirty canines can be sterilised in a day at the ABC Centre in Konakkarai which was set up at a cost of Rs. 90 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ngos-invited-to-carry-out-sterilisation-drive/article33318344.ece
13 December 2020||December 13 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Star power||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/star-power/article33318674.ece
13 December 2020||December 13 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Star power||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/star-power/article33318361.ece
13 December 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Siddaramaiah speaks to Transport Minister||Siddaramaiah, Leader of the Opposition spoke to Laxman Savadi, Deputy CM and Transport Minister to resolve the stand off between the government and the NWKRTC employees on Saturday. The former CM called Mr. Savadi after a few NWKRTC employees met him in Badami after a party meeting to prepare for the gram panchayat polls. He told the Minister to use his good offices to speak to everyone concerned and see that the the concerns of the employees were addressed. “I can understand the financial conditions of the government and other related issues. But you should try and resolve the issue by speaking to all parties concerned. The government should adopt the method of mediation and negotiation,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/siddaramaiah-speaks-to-transport-minister/article33318393.ece
13 December 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Woman attacked with acid||A fruit vendor was attacked with acid for spurning the advances of a petty trader in Raibag on Friday. Annappa Subhash Seth, 35, poured acid on the face, stomach and back of the 30-year-old woman who sold fruits for a living. Others tried to help by throwing cold water on her body. The Raibag police gave her first aid at a local clinic before shifting her to a hospital. The accused allegedly drank poison and surrendered. He was shifted to the district hospital. A case has been registered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/woman-attacked-with-acid/article33318392.ece
13 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||No question of taking up no-confidence motion on Tuesday: Council chairman||Dismissing the charge by ruling BJP members that he had behaved in an “unconstitutional” manner by adjourning the winter session of the House sine die on Thursday, Karnataka Legislative Council chairman K. Prathapchandra Shetty said that several members, particularly 25 elected members from the local bodies’ constituencies, wanted the House adjourned to spend time campaigning for the gram panchayat elections scheduled for December 22 and 27. Speaking to The Hindu , Mr. Shetty said all Bills that had been introduced in the Council had been passed. There was no listed agenda on the government’s side for continuing the session and hence, the House was adjourned on December 10.  The Business Advisory Committee (BAC) had not come to a decision on the adjournment of the House on December 10. Since the Legislative Assembly had already taken a decision to adjourn the House before the scheduled days, many MLCs had suggested adjournment, Mr. Shetty said. In a petition to Governor Vajubhai R. Vala on Friday, the BJP members alleged that “some vested interests were trying to adjourn the Council sine die on December 10” and that the intention of adjourning prematurely was expressed in the BAC meeting held on December 9 by the Opposition members. The petition further said that in the BAC meeting, the representatives of the government (Law Minister, Deputy Chief Minister, and Transport Minister) had clearly indicated that many crucial Bills, which are going to be passed in the Assembly, have to be brought to the Council and therefore, requested the chairman to continue the House till December 15 as scheduled, but was turned down by him “without assigning any reasons”. Mr. Shetty, four-time MLA, three-time MLC, and Council chairman since December 12, 2018, said he would chair the session on Tuesday as per the government’s instructions. However, he clarified that the Governor had not given directions to hold the session, he added. He pointed out that the BJP members had declined to introduce the Karnataka Prevention of Slaughter and Preservation of Cattle Bill, 2020, which was on the agenda on Thursday, and said they would table it the next day. The BJP, in its petition to the Governor, had also said: “In our view, the chairman does not enjoy the majority of the House and it is unacceptable that without the majority he wants to continue as the chairman till next session.” ‘No specific charges’ Mr. Shetty argued that he had rejected the BJP’s notice on no-confidence motion against him since there were no specific charges in the notice. “Issue of no-confidence motion is a closed chapter,” he said. “I have discharged my duties impartially for the last two years.” He dismissed the ruling party’s charge that he had acted in a partisan fashion. Since the notice on the no-confidence motion has already been rejected, there was no question of taking it up again on Tuesday, Mr. Shetty clarified.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/no-question-of-taking-up-no-confidence-motion-on-tuesday-council-chairman/article33318204.ece
13 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘There is no one to hear our woes’||The police investigating the violence at the iPhone manufacturing plant at Narasapura industrial area, on the outskirts of Bengaluru, say it was a “well-coordinated and executed attack” led by a group of contract workers. Early Saturday morning, thousands of workers from Wistron Infocomm Manufacturing (India), which is part of the Taipei-based Wistron Corporation manufacturing iPhones, ransacked the plant. Employees alleged that they had not been paid their salaries or overtime wages for three to four months. “There is no one to hear our woes. In addition to non-payment of salaries, we are also facing wage cut issues. There is so much harassment at work. Even after working all the days in the month, most of us are seeing loss of pay because the attendance system is corrupt. They call us for overtime, but at the end of work they say it is a compensation off. When we apply for it, HR never sanctions it,” claimed an employee who did not want to be named. More than 36 employees that The Hindu spoke to had similar stories to tell alleging lack of pay, long shifts, and an unhealthy and toxic work environment. Wistron refused to comment on these allegations. Sathyanand, secretary of All-India Trade Union Congress, Bengaluru, said the industrial violence at Wistron was the direct result of the “brutal exploitation” of workers and the sweatshop-like conditions created by the company while manufacturing the most expensive mobile phones. Regarding workers’ complaints of not getting their salaries, senior police officials said they have brought it to the attention of the Labour Department. However, in a statement to the media, Minister for Large and Medium Industries Jagadish Shettar said that the government will give necessary protection to the Taiwanese company in Kolar. “The State government has taken steps to develop industries in the State and is committed to the protection of the workers’ right. The problem could have been resolved if it had been adequately addressed as per law,” he said. Ten teams formed “Ten special teams have been formed to investigate the incident. We are screening CCTV footage and video clips to identify the instigators,” said a senior police officer. “Though the factory premises have been considerably damaged, there has been no case of people sustaining major injuries. Adequate security has been deployed and the situation is under control,” the police official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/there-is-no-one-to-hear-our-woes/article33318200.ece
13 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘State slipping in prevention of nutritional deficiencies, anaemia’||Although the latest National Family Health Survey (NFHS-5) data for Karnataka presents an improved scenario on some counts, the State has slipped in prevention of nutritional deficiencies and anaemia. While anaemia in children aged 6-59 months has increased from 60.9% in 2015–16 to 65.5% in 2019–20, it has shot up from 44.8% to 47.8% in all women aged 15–49. Anaemia in men aged 15–49 has also gone up from 18.3% to 19.6%. On a positive note, the data shows some gains in infant and under-five mortalities. While the overall sex ratio has significantly improved from 979 to 1,034, sex ratio at birth for children born in the last five years in rural areas continues to be worrisome. According to the data, while quality of antenatal care continues to be poor, the proportion of women registering within the first trimester has increased 65.9% to 71%, the proportion of pregnant women who consumed iron folic acid tablets (critical for tackling anaemia) for 100 days or more during pregnancy has decreased from 45.2% to 44.7%. Compared to the NFHS-4, there has been improvement in terms of infant and under-five mortality rates. While the infant mortality rate has reduced from 26.9 per 1,000 live births to 25.4 per 1,000 live births, mortality rate among children under five years of age has also reduced from 31.5 to 29.5.  ‘Not priority’ Sylvia Karpagam, a public health doctor and researcher, who is part of the Right to Food Campaign and Jan Swasthya Abhiyan campaigns, said, “While anaemia continues to be a challenge, it is not the government’s priority. For instance, the decision to bring in an anti-cow slaughter Bill will also take away an important dietary source of heme iron and other essential nutrients.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-slipping-in-prevention-of-nutritional-deficiencies-anaemia/article33318185.ece
13 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Nothing can be predicted in politics, says HDK||Amidst speculation that he was increasingly going “soft” on the Bharatiya Janata Party, former Chief Minister and Janata Dal (Secular) leader H.D. Kumaraswamy did not rule out the possibility of a tie-up between the two parties in future. However, he stoutly denied the possibility of a merger. Replying to a question in a press meet on Saturday on whether there was truth in the rumours that JD(S) was in touch with BJP’s Central leaders and an understanding between the two could be struck around April, he said: “No one can say what is possible and what is not possible in politics... What has to happen will happen at the right time. Nothing is permanent.” Citing an example, he said Congress leaders, who had called JD(S) “B team of the BJP” had finally offered him the post of Chief Minister and formed a coalition government. Mr. Kumaraswamy said he was “not an astrologer to predict the future” and would not like to speculate on political developments, especially at present when the BJP government has a comfortable majority. “Let us discuss it when the time comes,” he said, sending mixed signals. “Considering the present political situation, I’m sure a time will come when people will see that they need Kumaraswamy,” he said. However, when asked if the JD(S)’s merger with the BJP was a possibility, he said: “There is no proposal of merging our party with any other party. It is out of question today and any time in future.” On farm laws Speaking about the recent amendments to farm laws in Karnataka and at the Centre, which has led to large-scale agitation by farmers, the former Chief Minister said many who were opposing it were doing so without a clear understanding. He insisted that the JD(S), which has drawn the ire of farmers by supporting changes, had not done a U-turn on the issue and “acted in farmers’ interest.” However, he said he was opposed to the anti-cow slaughter Bill, which will burden the farmers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nothing-can-be-predicted-in-politics-says-hdk/article33318206.ece
13 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||C-section continues to be high in private hospitals: Survey||While institutional deliveries in government hospitals have increased from 61.2% in 2015–16 to 64.8% in 2019–20, Caesarean section deliveries in private hospitals have seen a huge jump from 40.3% to 52.5%, according to the latest National Family Health Survey (NFHS-5) data for Karnataka. The overall births delivered by C-section have increased from 23.6% to 31.5%. Likewise, births in a public health facility that were delivered by C-section have also increased from 16.9% to 22.6%. “This is a substantial increase and should be seen as a red flag,” said Akhila Vasan from Karnataka Janarogya Chaluvali. “Despite 97% of women delivering in institutions (hospitals), it is surprising that only 85.5% of children received attention from trained persons within two days of birth. This illustrates poor quality of newborn care, which, in turn, explains why neonatal mortality is still a concern,” she said.  Delivery expenditure The average out of pocket expenditure (OOP) per delivery in a public hospital has also gone up from Rs. 4,824 to Rs. 4,954. Women in urban areas continue to spend over Rs. 5,000 per delivery, according to the data. While institutional deliveries have increased from 94% to 97%, a point to be noted is that only 64.8% of this was reported in government hospitals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/c-section-continues-to-be-high-in-private-hospitals-survey/article33318182.ece
13 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||R.K. Narayan had a profound impact on me: McCall Smith||This year’s pandemic, among its many disruptions, robbed Bengalureans of a chance to see Alexander McCall Smith in person. The internationally acclaimed British author was part of the line-up of speakers at the ninth edition of the two-day Bangalore Literature Festival (BLF) that commenced on Saturday. But he could only participate in the festival online owing to the travel restrictions. In an entertaining and insightful session with Bengaluru-based Swedish writer Zac O’Yeah, Mr. McCall Smith admitted that he missed visiting India. “I was there before the pandemic,” he said, “I did quite a bit of my writing there.” The late Indian writer R.K. Narayan is one of his most favourite authors. He spoke about how Narayan’s works influenced him.“I don’t think I would have written The No. 1 Ladies’ Detective Agency series had I not read Narayan. So, he had a profound impact on me. I love his style and vision. I am a fan of his Malgudi series, in which he talks about ordinary life. He’s talking about small-town life. And he’s got wonderful humanity in his books.” “If Nobel Prizes could be awarded posthumously, it would be wonderful for him to get one,” he added.  The No. 1 Ladies’ Detective Agency series, which has sold over 25 million copies, is his most successful work. The 21st and the latest of the books, How to Raise an Elephant , was released earlier this year, marking the return of the much-loved Botswanan protagonist Mma Precious Ramotswe.   Pandemic, poetry In a session titled ‘The Masked Intruder: Pandemic and You’, psychologist Anna Chandy and Dr. Farah Adam discussed with writer Amandeep Sandhu about the physical and mental health implications of COVID-19. They touched on the topics of periods, parenting, social connection, among others, and offered tips for coping with the pandemic. Mani Rao, Mamta Sagar, Maitreyee B. Chowdhury, Nandita Bose, and Prathibha Nandakumar came together for a poetry session. The former Union Minister Jairam Ramesh and political science researcher Amit Ahuja, the joint winners of the Kamaladevi Chattopadhyay NIF Book Prize 2020, talked about their respective books, A Chequered Brilliance: The Many Lives of VK Krishna Menon and Mobilizing the Marginalized: Ethnic Parties without Ethnic Movements . For more information about the festival and Sunday’s schedule visitbanga loreliteraturefestival.org||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rk-narayan-had-a-profound-impact-on-me-mccall-smith/article33318191.ece
13 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||1,203 new cases, 11 deaths||The State on Saturday reported 1,203 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total number of cases to 9,00,214. With 11 deaths, the toll rose to 11,939. This is apart from 19 deaths of patients due to non-COVID-19 reasons. As many as 1,531 persons were discharged on Saturday, taking the total number of recoveries to 8,70,002. Of the remaining 18,254 active patients, 244 were being monitored in the ICU. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 1.17 %, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) touched 0.91%. Bengaluru Urban reported 606 cases, taking its tally to 3,77,857. With six deaths coming from Bengaluru, the toll in this district rose to 4,230. Active cases in Bengaluru reduced to 12,902. As many as 1,02,229 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, including 88,503 RT-PCR tests. With this, the total tests rose to 1,22,66,816.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/1203-new-cases-11-deaths/article33318209.ece
13 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Nurse detained for recording videos of hostellers in bathroom||The Whitefield police have detained a nurse for allegedly recording her colleagues and female staff residing in a hostel while they were in the bathroom and sharing the clips with a male friend. “The woman works as a nurse in a private hospital, and resided in a hostel nearby. Other nurses and housekeeping staff also had quarters in the hostel. She used to keep a mobile phone hidden in the bathroom to record videos. This was done without the knowledge of the other hostel residents, said a police officer. Based on a complaint filed by the hostel warden, the Whitefield police have registered a case against the nurse, identified as Ashwini. She hails from Gudiyattam in Tamil Nadu and reportedly confessed that she recorded the videos at the behest of her male friend. The incident came to light on December 8, when a hostel resident spotted the mobile phone while she was bathing. When she picked up the device, she was horrified to see that it was on record mode. There were many such videos in the gallery folder. She brought it to the notice of the hostel warden who in turn conducted an internal inquiry before filing a police complaint. During the course of their investigation, the police traced the mobile to Ashwini. The police are now trying to track down the male friend.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nurse-detained-for-recording-videos-of-hostellers-in-bathroom/article33318188.ece
13 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HC imposes cost on Yogeshwar||The High Court of Karnataka has imposed a cost on C.P. Yogeshwar(in picture), MLC, and others for repeatedly approaching the court in multifarious proceedings seeking relief in criminal cases registered against them for cheating, forgery, and other offences by the Serious Fraud Investigation Office (SFIO) in the alleged scam related to Megacity (Bangalore) Developers and Builders Ltd. Justice John Michael Cunha passed the order while dismissing the petitions filed by Mr. Yogeshwar, his brother C.P. Gangadhareshwar, and six others, while imposing a cost of Rs. 3,000 each for each petition filed by them for questioning an order of taking cognisance of offence against them in 2012 by the special court for economic offences. Mr. Yogeshwar was managing director of the firm. “Having regard to the conduct of the petitioners in repeatedly approaching this court, seeking the very same relief, in multifarious proceedings, the petitioners are required to mulcted with exemplary cost,” the Bench observed, while noticing that they had filed petitions in 2012 challenging the orders passed by the special court and the same pleas were made in these these petitions filed in 2017. Also, the court held that the complaint lodged by the SFIO in 2012 prima facie disclose the ingredients of the offences alleged against them while declining to accept their contentions that there was no material to proceed against them. The SFIO had said that Mr. Yogeshwar had allegedly committed an offence by obtaining multiple Director Identification Numbers by producing forged documents to overcome disqualification from being director of a firm, besides allegedly siphoning off crores of rupees by cheating investors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hc-imposes-cost-on-yogeshwar/article33318202.ece
13 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||CM accuses farmers’ leader of instigating employees||In a press release, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa lambasted farmers’ leader Kodihalli Chandrashekar, who is leading the strike, and accused him of “instigating” transport employees. Transport Minister Laxman Savadi also said that Mr. Chandrashekar was not connected to the transport corporations in the State. In his response to the Chief Minister, Mr. Chandrashekar said the employees were voluntarily participating in the strike and no one was forcing them. C. Shikha, managing director of the BMTC, told the media that if employees continued to protest, they would face action as per the Essential Services Maintenance Act. But protesters said they were ready to face any such action. Meanwhile, Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee president D.K. Shivakumar met the protesters at Banashankari bus stand and told them that the Congress was with them. The Former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy also asked the government to resolve the problem in the interest of the public.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cm-accuses-farmers-leader-of-instigating-employees/article33318177.ece
13 December 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Power shutdown||In view of conversion and cable works being taken up, there will be no power supply on December 14 from 10 a.m. to 6.30 p.m. in the areas serviced from Banashankari MUSS, F-15 Feeder - Bangarappa Nagar. According to a Bescom release, the areas to be affected are Dwarakanagar, Hosakerehalli, Janashakthinagar, Hrushikeshnagar, Kerekodi, PES College, D’Souza Nagar, Pushpagirinagar, and Krishnappa Layout.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/power-shutdown/article33318180.ece
13 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Huge jump in domestic violence||There has been a massive jump in the reporting of gender-based violence in the State. Ever-married women aged 18-49 who have experienced spousal violence has increased from 20.6% in 2015–16 to 44.4%. Young women aged 18–29, who experienced sexual violence by 18 years has also gone up from 10.3% to 11%. Akhila Vasan from Karnataka Janarogya Chaluvali said although a large proportion of women (67.6%) own land, more of them are subjected to violence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/huge-jump-in-domestic-violence/article33318183.ece
13 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Woman held for killing son||The West division police have arrested a 26-year-old woman who allegedly smothered her six-year-old son with a pillow and strangled him to death as he was harassing his two-month-old brother. “On Saturday afternoon, the woman, Devi, called her husband Tejaram, who owns a provision store at Pattanagere, to inform him that their older son was unwell. She asked him to come home immediately,” said the police. When he reached their house at R.R. Nagar, he found Manish lying motionless. Devi reportedly told him what she had done. Tejaram and his relatives took Manish to a hospital where he was declared brought dead.Based on a complaint, the police arrested Devi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/woman-held-for-killing-son/article33318189.ece
13 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Extended||The deadline for seeking admission to Karnataka State Open University (KSOU) UG, PG, PG diploma, diploma, and certificate courses for 2020-21 July cycle has been extended till December 31. Further details can be obtained from KSOU websitewww.ksoumysuru.ac.inor call 080-23448811.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/extended/article33318192.ece
13 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Second mega e-Lok Adalat on Dec. 19||The Karnataka State Legal Services Authority will conduct the second round of mega e-Lok Adalat on December 19 across all districts in the State to resolve select types of cases pending in courts through amicable solution. In a press release, the KSLSA has stated that 19.81 lakh cases are pending for adjudication in various courts in the State and of these cases, around 2,48,620 have been identified as fit for settlement through mega e-Lok Adalat. The first mega e-Lok Adalat held in September had witnessed settlement of a record 1.15 lakh cases as it was the first one held only through videoconferencing facility. In the ensuing e-Lok Adalat, the participation of litigants would be either by physical presence or through videoconference, the KSLSA’s statement said. The cases related to motor vehicle accident compensation, compoundable criminal cases, cheque bounce cases, and family court matters would be eligible for settlement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/second-mega-e-lok-adalat-on-dec-19/article33318210.ece
13 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Will have to give Modi a chance’||On changes to the APMC law by the Centre, that has led to protests in Delhi, former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy said opinion was divided on the issue and one would have to give Prime Minister Narendra Modi a chance to see if he keeps his promise on doubling farmers’ income.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/will-have-to-give-modi-a-chance/article33318211.ece
13 December 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Panel discussion||The Indian Speech-Language and Hearing Association will hold a panel discussion on ‘Role of media in changing perception about persons with disability’ on Sunday from 6.30 p.m. To attend the programme, login to YouTube: https://bit.ly/365iatm ormail to chair.liaising@ishaindia.org.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/panel-discussion/article33318207.ece
13 December 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||M.B. Natu passes away||Member of Karnataka Brahmin Development Corporation and president of Dharwad Zilla Brahmin Seva Sangha M.B. Natu passed away after a brief period of illness in Hubballi on Saturday. He was 74. A teacher by profession, he had retired after serving as principal of New English Girls School and was also office-bearer of Karnataka Madhyamika Shala Shikshakara Sangha and a trustee of century old Eshwar Temple in Hubballi. The funeral was held on Saturday night.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mb-natu-passes-away/article33318395.ece
13 December 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Transport services remain disrupted for second day||Public transport across Kalyana Karnataka continued to be disrupted on Saturday as the ongoing strike by the employees working in four State-owned transport corporations – Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC), North West Karnataka Transport Corporation (NWKRTC), North-East Karnataka Transport Corporation (NEKRTC) and Bengaluru Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC) entered the second day. Thousands of government buses remained inside bus stands and depots as no driver and conductor turned up for the duty. The passengers, who, unaware of the strike, arrived at the stands were found desperately waiting for the resumption of services. Nonetheless, the passenger crowd was relatively less on Saturday as compared to the previous day. As per the information provided by NEKRTC authorities, operations in Bidar, Kalaburagi, Vijayapura, Yadgir, Raichur, Koppal and Ballari districts incurred a loss of Rs. 4.14 crore on Saturday alone as most of the 19,000 workforce went on strike parking over 3,800 buses inside the depots and stands. “On Friday, the corporation had suffered Rs. 1.5 crore as buses on around 410 routes operated despite the strike. Most of the services were suspended today as more employees joined the strike. Only a few buses for Maharashtra operated today,” an officer said. The agitating employees appeared more firm in their demands on the second day. The bus stands across towns and cities in seven northeastern districts saw demonstrations by the employees. “We are firm on our demands. We should be considered as State government employees in the first place and be extended all the benefits entitled to government employees. We would not step back till a concrete assurance is given by the government,” an agitating employee told The Hindu. Taking advantage of the situation, private transport operators continued to exploit the passengers by over-charging. Private taxi operators demanding exorbitant charges from passengers for even shorter distances and passengers arguing with operators was reported from Ballari, Bidar and Koppal districts. In certain places along the State border in Ballari and Raichur, the buses operated by Andhra Pradesh and Telangana functioned as usual. People were found thronging to inter-State bus services. Buses damaged As many as three buses belonging to NEKRTC were damaged in Ballari. It was not known who damaged them. As per preliminary information, some miscreants pelted stones at a bus that was coming in from Hosapet and heading towards Ballari late on Friday. On Friday, two more buses were damaged in the stone-pelting in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/transport-services-remain-disrupted-for-second-day/article33318400.ece
13 December 2020||Kalaburagi,KARNATAKA||Four arrested in three-month-old murder case||The Kalaburagi police cracked a three-month-old murder of a businessman who was shot dead near his house in Godutai Nagar in the city on August 27. The deceased Sunil Ranka, 42, was from Rajasthan and had settled in Kalaburagi more than a decade ago and had established his business in floor tiles, granites and also contracting work for false ceiling, suspended ceiling, and Plaster of Paris design. The case was registered at Ashok Nagar police station. Team formed Kalaburagi Police Commissioner N. Satish Kumar and Deputy Police Commissioner Kishore Babu formed a team led by Ashok Nagar Police Sub-Inspector Pandit Sangar and commenced an investigation into the murder and arrested four persons – Ambreesh Rathod of Biddapur Colony in the city, Rajashekar Rathod from Shahransirasagi tanda on the outskirts of the city, Gundu Rathod from Hadgil Haruti village and Namdev Homu Lonari from Khatijapur village in Vijayapur district in connection with the murder of Sunil Ranka. During the interrogation, the accused confessed to the entire crime. Ambreesh Rathod was working at a granite shop located just beside the victim shop. He kept a watch on Ranka’s business and transactions for years and hatched a plot to kill him and take the money. The case was difficult for the police, as they did not get any vital clues initially. They collected CCTV footage from 50 locations from the surrounding areas and also traced call records of 5,000 mobile numbers near the crime scene. The mastermind behind the murder Ambreesh planned to kill Ranka and decamp with the collection money that he regularly carried with him. According to the plan, his associates Rajashekar, Namdev, and Gundu pursued Ranka and killed him near his house, and decamped with Rs. 1.84 lakh. On the same night, the three miscreants met Ambreesh near High Court and handed over the cash bag and the weapon used for the crime. Ambreesh in turn distributed the share amount Rs. 39,000 to Rajashekar, Rs. 30,000 to Namdev, and Rs. 20,000 to Gundu for helping him execute the murder. Accused caught Ambreesh was arrested by Vijayapura police on October 30, during his visit to Khatijapur village for the wedding of Namdev Lonari. The police also recovered the pistol from him. A case was registered against him at Vijayapura Rural police station. Ambreesh also confessed that he had purchased a pistol from Prakash Rajput of Hanchinal village in Vijayapur district, the weapon was supplied by Ajez Patel of Nandral village of Indi taluk in Vijayapura district. He also confessed to the involvement of Namdev, Rajashekar, and Gundu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/four-arrested-in-three-month-old-murder-case/article33318397.ece
13 December 2020||Kalaburagi,KARNATAKA||Auction of unclaimed vehicles||The Nimbarga police station will auction 25 unclaimed vehicles that have been piled up at the station for years. The JMFC court of Aland has ordered to auction the vehicles. These vehicles were seized by from time to time, some during road accidents. The auction will be held at Nimbarga police station on December 15. Candidates can register at the station||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/auction-of-unclaimed-vehicles/article33318396.ece
13 December 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Batpady residents continue to remain cut off from mainland||Despite the fact that about 20 families and other residents have remained cut off from the mainland for nearly six months at the Batpady end point near the Karnataka-Kerala border, the government and the district administration have not restored the fisheries road that was washed away by sea erosion in July. And this has happened when the Minister for Ports and Fisheries himself is the Minister in charge of the district. Minister Kota Srinivas Poojary had, on October 29, promised that the administration would ask Nirmithi Kendra to execute works on the construction of a sea protection wall and the restoration of the road without going for tenders. The government was asked to release at least Rs. 2 crore for the same and the work would immediately be taken up, he had said. But not a single stone has been moved since and the residents continue to battle the odds. When The Hindu visited Batpady on Saturday, the battered road was seen in the same state it was in July. Residents walked through private properties to get to their homes with essentials in hand. Hameed Batpady, a former member of the local gram panchayat and a resident, told The Hindu that posses of officials and politicians had visited since the complete destruction in July. However, there is no relief in sight, he said, lamenting the apathy. Batpady Abdullah, another resident, said the agencies had ignored his early warning in February that the road was bound to be eroded if protection measures were not taken before the monsoon. Shore of about 400 metres width and 500 metres length was swallowed by the sea in the last five years, he added. Sources in the Ports and Inland Waterways Department said a proposal on building a sea protection wall construction at a cost of Rs. 45 lakh at the affected site was sent to the government through the Deputy Commissioner. However, there has been no approval from the government so far. “Many times, we execute works without there being any sanction when there is a hue and cry because of sea erosion. Later, we struggle to make the payment to the contractor concerned,” a source said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/batpady-residents-continue-to-remain-cut-off-from-mainland/article33318601.ece
13 December 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Crop survey to begin in Udupi this week||Udupi Deputy Commissioner G. Jagadeesha on Friday said the rabi season crop survey would be taken up through farmers themselves during the next two weeks. A mobile app has been developed to facilitate the survey and farmers may download it from https://play.google.com/store/apps/details? id=com.csk.RabiTPKfarmer.cropsurvey and provide the details for the 2020-21 rabi season. Upon scanning the Aadhaar QR code and entering the mobile phone number, farmers would get an OTP to enter the crop details, including village, survey number, owner, and photographs. Mr. Jagadeesha said the crop survey details would be helpful in disbursing compensation for crop loss, providing Minimum Support Price, identifying beneficiaries, implementing crop insurance scheme, entering crop details in the RTC, and other programmes. He urged farmers to make use of the facility.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/crop-survey-to-begin-in-udupi-this-week/article33318602.ece
13 December 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘We are committed to bringing Padumale into prominence ’||The Koti Chennayya Janmastala Sanchalana Trust is committed to bringing Padumale in to prominence in Puttur Taluk - the birthplace of the revered twins Koti Chennayya and their mother Deyi Baideti – which has remained in darkness for decades, said Trust president Harikrishna Bantwal. Speaking with reporters, Mr. Bantwal said the Trust has already finished the renovation of the ‘samadhi’ of Deyi Baidethi and it will be formally opened by the end of April. The Trust will then take up construction of Bammeragudi, which will be followed by development of Kovethoota – the birthplace of Deyi Baidethi. It will take the assistance of the State government to acquire the 8 acre land where the revered twins performed kambala (the race of buffaloes in the slushy field). Mr. Bantwal said Padumale village is the Janma Sthana and Moola Sthana where there are houses and other places linked with the twins and their mother. “These places need to be restored as they have great relevance not just for Tulunadu but for the nation.” he said. Koti Chennnayya are revered across the region and cannot be just be restricted to a community or a caste, he said. Criticising a group that claimed Gejjageri as the birthplace of the twins, Mr. Bantwal said there was no reference to Gejjageri in any of the historical texts about Koti Chennayya. “Padumale has for long been the birthplace of the twins and any effort to twist this 500 year-long history is highly condemnable,” he said. Mr. Bantwal said an office of the Trust would be opened in Padumale on January 15.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/we-are-committed-to-bringing-padumale-into-prominence/article33318607.ece
13 December 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Two deaths, 74 new cases in DK, Udupi||Two COVID-19 patients with co-morbidities died while 53 new cases were reported in Dakshina Kannada district on Saturday. With 43 persons discharged, the number of active cases stood at 420. A total of Rs. 17.73 lakh has been collected so far as fines in 16,697 cases of people not wearing mask, said a bulletin issued by the Dakshina Kannada district administration. With 21 new COVID-19 cases reported in Udupi, the active case count stood at 138 on Saturday. As many as 27 patients were discharged. A total of Rs. 18.93 lakh has been collected so far as fines in 17,351 cases of people not wearing mask and violating social distance norms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-deaths-74-new-cases-in-dk-udupi/article33318609.ece
13 December 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Lucky escape for family||A family of four escaped a fire mishap from their car in the city on Saturday. Akhilesh, a resident of Mudipu, was driving the car with three family members. As they were moving from PVS Circle towards Mangaluru City Corporation building, he sensed smoke coming out of the bonnet around 2 p.m. He stopped the car near Manasa Towers. They exited the vehicle just as a fire broke out. Personnel from Mangaluru East police station and Mangaluru Traffic North police rushed to the spot along with Fire and Emergency Services personnel. The firemen took about 15 minutes to put out the fire, believed to be caused by a short circuit near the battery of the car. A case was registered with the Mangaluru Traffic North Police station||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/lucky-escape-for-family/article33318605.ece
13 December 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||CFI activists arrested||The Udupi Town Police arrested 22 Campus Front of India (CFI) activists for an alleged unauthorised protest near the Clock Tower in Udupi on Saturday. They were protesting against the action of Enforcement Directorate to take the CFI National Secretary to their custody. The activists raised slogans against the Centre. The Udupi Town police went to the spot and asked them to call off the protest. As they went ahead with it, the police arrested and released them a hour later.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cfi-activists-arrested/article33318603.ece
13 December 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||As bus strike enters second day, passengers bear the brunt||Bus services across Mysuru were affected for the second day on Saturday as the staff of Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation and other road transport corporations continued with their indefinite agitation despite the government’s appeal to them to end the strike in the interest of public. The agitation has severely inconvenienced the passengers as the inter-city and intra-city services have come to a complete halt with the drivers and conductors sticking to their demand for considering them as government employees and extend benefits accordingly. Despite the efforts by the officials here to persuade the striking staff, the drivers and conductors refused to get back to their duties. Police escort With police escort, a few buses were operated on the Bengaluru route to clear the stranded passengers. In the wake of incidents of stone throwing on the buses on Friday, the KSRTC authorities sought police protection. However, these services also came to a halt after sometime and the entire mofussil bus stand wore a deserted look. Some private buses operated services near the bus-stand, taking advantage of the situation. Even taxi operators took the advantage of the situation and ferried passengers to their destinations. Some passengers complained that the private operators demanded double the fare. With no options available, the passengers paid the fare as demanded by the operators to reach their destinations. The private buses were packed to capacity. The city police had deployed adequate bandobust in and around the bus stand to prevent any untoward incidents and facilitate the operation of private buses. Nearly 600-plus intra-city route buses went off the roads completely on Saturday after some of their buses were stoned on Friday. The Mysuru urban division of the KSRTC had operated nearly 70 per cent of the services on Friday and it stopped the operations after the incidents of stone throwing. Other districts Buses belonging to Tamil Nadu and Kerala operated as usual. The passengers made use of these buses to reach their destinations. The strike also affected bus services in the neighbouring districts of Mandya, Kodagu and Chamarajanagar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/as-bus-strike-enters-second-day-passengers-bear-the-brunt/article33318620.ece
13 December 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||‘Second COVID-19 wave foreseen in Feb.’||Two more state-of the-art cardiac surgery operation theatres (OTs) were inaugurated at the Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences and Research here on Saturday. Institute Director C.N. Manjunath inaugurated the facilities besides the rest rooms for the attendants of patients, library, physiotherapy and research unit and also a parking lot. The modern OTs for open heart and vascular surgeries were inaugurated in the wake of more number of patients going in for these surgeries at the hospital in the recent times, the director said. Speaking on the occasion, Dr. Manjunath said the public need to be cautious and take all precautions against COVID-19 despite the fall in the number of cases. When compared to other countries, the cases are falling in the country. But, countries where the infection rate had come down are now facing a second wave of the infection. In India too, a second wave is foreseen in February. Therefore, the people should not neglect and take all precautions like wearing face masks, maintaining social distance and so on, he advised. Dr. Manjunath said the vaccine, if it is made available in the next two to three months, won’t be available to everyone. The vaccine will be administered first to doctors, other health care staff, frontline workers and senior citizens. Despite the availability of vaccine, people have to continue wearing the face covers, he suggested. Good patronage Dr. Manjunath said nearly 7 lakh people utilised out-patient services at the Sri Jayadeva Institute in Mysuru in the last 10 years. Nearly 25,000 people underwent angiogram interventions and angioplasty procedures had been performed on nearly 15,000 people. As many as 300 patients underwent open heart surgeries. “The hospital is fully equipped with all facilities and there is no shortage of staff,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/second-covid-19-wave-foreseen-in-feb/article33318622.ece
13 December 2020||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||MCC bracing for Swachh Surveskhan 2021||The Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) is bracing for the Swachh Survekshan 2021 exercise for the coveted clean city national ranking. Mysuru has consistently ranked among the top 5 cleanest cities and has bagged the cleanest city tag twice though it has been upstaged by Indore since the last 4 years. The Swachh Survekshan conducted by the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs normally commences during January but officials in the MCC said it is likely to be held during March.. MCC Health Officer D.G. Nagaraj said 4,242 urban local bodies were evaluated in 2020 and the numbers are yet to be announced for 2021 Swachh Survekshan. The MoUHA has also announced new category of awards based on various indicators including segregation of wet, dry and hazardous waste, processing capacity installed against wet waste generated, processing and recycling of wet and dry wastes etc, C and D waste processing and percentage of waste going to the landfills. Based on the extent of coverage and percentage of waste being recycled, the Ministry will award Platinum, Gold, Silver, Bronze and Aspiring awards. Changes There are also certain changes in the award of marks and citizens feedback which received 25 per cent of the total marks (6000) in 2020, has been increased to 30 per cent for 2021, according to Dr. Nagaraju. The direct observation by independent evaluators which carried 25 per cent marks, has now been merged with the citizens’ voice and service-level progress to avoid duplication.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mcc-bracing-for-swachh-surveskhan-2021/article33318624.ece
13 December 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||6,054 nominations filed in Raichur||As the last date to file nominations for the first phase of Gram Panchayat elections ended on December 11, 6,054 nominations for 1,816 seats were received in Raichur district. Of the 92 GPs going polls on December 17, 33 are in Raichur taluk, followed by 17 in Manvi taluk, 14 in Sirwar taluk and 28 in Deodurga taluk.  In Raichur, 2,340 nominations have been received for 654 seats followed by 1,165 nominations for 341 seats in Manvi, 941 for 14 seats in Sirwar and 1,608 for 28 seats in Deodurga taluk. Totally, 1,530 nominations by SC candidates, 1,535 ST nominations, 296 OBC ‘A’ nominations, 38 OBC ‘B’ nominations, and 2,655 nominations by General category were received. In Yadgir The first phase election will be held in 63 GPs in Hunsagi, Shorapur and Shahapur taluks on December 17. As many as 539 polling stations have been set up for 1,247 seats. As many as 4,119 nominations have been received for 1,247 seats in 63 GPs. Of the 4,119 nominations 1,496 have been received for 495 seats in 24 GPs in Shahapur taluk followed by 1,361 for 383 seats in 21 GPs in Shorapur taluk and 1,262 for 369 seats in 18 GPs in Hunsagi taluk. Totally, 1,121 SC, 728 ST, 270 OBC ‘A’, 63 OBC ‘B’, and 1,937 General category nominations were received. A total of 3,94,709 people are eligible to vote. Among them, 1, 98,615 voters are male, 1, 96,078 are female and 7 voters are others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/6054-nominations-filed-in-raichur/article33318401.ece
13 December 2020||December 13 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Multi-Modal Logistic Park to be functional by 2022-23 at Kadakola||The proposed Multi-Modal Logistic Park (MMLP) at Kadakola near Nanjangud is expected to become fully functional by 2022-23 and will entail an investment of Rs. 100 crore. Once completed it will reduce the cost of transportation and make the products more competitive besides giving thrust to industrial growth in the region. This came to the fore during an interactive session on the MMLP with trade and business organisations organised by the Container Corporation of India Ltd (CONCOR) here on Saturday. Mysuru MP Pratap Simha, who inaugurated the interactive session, said air, road and rail connectivity to the city and the region is being enhanced and will augur well for the industrial growth of the region. He said the project was almost cancelled due to land acquisition issues which were resolved due to constant interaction with farmers and government departments. Anup Dayanand Sadhu, Group General Manager, Container Corporation of India Ltd (Concor), said MMLP will be spread over 62 acres of land that has been acquired through the KIADB and the civil works for Rs. 55.02 crore have already been awarded. It will provide direct rail connectivity from hinterland to different ports and other parts of the country for transportation of containers for export-imports and domestic trade. The MMLP will also feature an inland container depot (ICD) which will provide single-window customs clearance for EXIM containers where filing of customs papers, bill of entry, shipping bills and other declarations and assessment of activities related to clearance of goods, will take place. IT help The MMLP will be backed by IT systems to enable the businesses to keep track of the containers through Know Your Container Location (KYCL), SMS-based container tracking, e-filing of documents, web-enabled customer feedback and e-payment facilities. The bulk of the customers expected to make use of the new facilities will be drawn not only from industrial areas in and around Mysuru and Nanajngud but in a catchment area of 200 km. Agro and food processing industries, manufacturing industries, units from traditional sectors like incense sticks (agarbathi) engaged in exports, granite units etc., are the potential customers who will benefit from it. Among the benefits accruing to the businesses is the reduction in cost of transportation by 10 per cent, faster transit of goods, reduction in the overall transaction costs, fuel savings and cutting down of storage and handling losses, according to Mr. Sadhu.  Divisional Railway Manager Rahul Agarwal, and representatives from trade and business organisations were among those present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/multi-modal-logistic-park-to-be-functional-by-2022-23-at-kadakola/article33318623.ece
13 December 2020||December 13 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Anti-cow slaughter Bill: OBC panel had raised concerns 10 years ago||The passage of the Karnataka Prevention of Slaughter and Preservation of Cattle Bill, 2020, in the Legislative Assembly, has brought a 10-year-old report submitted by the Karnataka State Backward Classes Commission, opposing a similar law proposed in 2010 to the limelight. The commission had recommended that the State government withdraw the Bill, tabled back then also by Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, arguing that it was “against the basic principles of Indian Constitution”, besides opining that it would affect socio-economic life of a majority of backward classes. C.S. Dwarakanath, then chairman of the commission, had submitted the report in 2010, when the then BJP government had passed the Bill in the legislature. He submitted the report following a memorandum from activists who were worried about the impact of the law. However, it had not got the Governor’s assent and was shelved subsequently by the Congress government. The commission, in its report, had said that the Bill takes away the basic right of people to choose their food and employment, guaranteed by the Constitution. It said backward communities, including Muslims, Christians, Bouddha, Pinjara, Nadaf, Chapparband, Jatagara, and others listed under category III-B of the backward classes, get necessary nutritious supplements from beef. The law takes away their access to essential protein at affordable prices. A majority of the communities that rear cattle are backward castes – Lingayat (IIIB), Vokkaliga (IIIA), Kuruba, Idiga, Tigala, Devanga, Vishwakarma (IIA) and Golla, Uppara, and Besta (Cat-1). Talking of the strong penal provisions of the 2010 Bill against those selling cows knowing it could go to slaughterhouse, which is also a feature of the 2020 Bill, the report had said: “With this, the farming community, already facing many problems, will have to be at the mercy of government officials.” Speaking to The Hindu , Mr. Dwarakanath said: “I stand by what I had commented in my report. Even now, the government has not thought about its implications on the farming community. A majority of the backward castes would suffer because of this law.” Many beef-eating and selling people, who have already been facing trouble, fear that it could get worse if the latest Bill, passed in the Assembly, becomes law. S. Raju, resident of Holenarsipur, said his family purchases beef once a week. “I cannot afford mutton, which costs around Rs. 750 a kg. However, beef is available for Rs. 200 to Rs. 250 a kg.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/anti-cow-slaughter-bill-obc-panel-had-raised-concerns-10-years-ago/article33318196.ece
13 December 2020||December 13 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Floods: Central team in Karnataka from today||An Inter-ministerial Central Team (IMCT) will visit flood-affected areas of Karnataka from December 13 to 15. The six-member IMCT, which will be split into three teams of two members each, have been constituted for on-the-spot assessment of flood/landslip affected areas in Kalaburagi, Vijayapura, Udupi, and other districts. To meet Chief Minister The team will be led by Ramesh Kumar Ganta, joint secretary, NDMA, Union Ministry of Home Affairs. It will hold discussions with Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa at Krishna on Sunday at 5 p.m.. On December 15, the team will hold discussions with Revenue Minister R. Ashok and Chief Secretary T.M. Vijay Bhaskar at the Vidhana Soudha at 4 p.m., said an official note. Floods hit the State in three phases this year. While the first phase was from August 1 to September 15, the second and third phases ranged from September 15 to 30 and October second week to third week. The Central team will decide the compensation for the second and third phases. In the second phase of floods, 50 taluks in 16 districts were affected, while several northern areas had been affected in the third phase.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/floods-central-team-in-karnataka-from-today/article33318194.ece
13 December 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Chemical colouring of cardamom suspected||A seizure on Friday of a large quantity of sodium carbonate from an industrial unit at Mundiyeruma in the district has exposed the possibility of chemical colouring of cardamom. It is suspected that the colouring chemical was being distributed to cardamom dryer units in the district. A special team of the Spices Board of India and officials of the Food Safety Department seized 2,475 kg of sodium carbonate from the unit following the detection of the chemical from a cardamom dryer unit. Many ramifications Chemical colouring may lead to rejection of consignments impacting cardamom exports. The use of chemical to add colour was noticed nearly three years ago and officials had held an awareness campaign against it then. Officials of the Food Safety Department had collected samples of cardamom to test for chemical colouring at its circle offices in cardamom producing areas last year. Benny Joseph, Assistant Commissioner, Food Safety Department, says artificial colouring of cardamom is prohibited and the wing will conduct raids with the help of the spices board. Farmers go for chemical colouring prompted by the high prices for the first grade at auctions. The quality of cardamom is decided by its colour, shape, size, and oil content. Farmers tend to add colour to the commodity to make it appear as Alleppey Green, considered the best variety by buyers. “If chemical residue is found above the permissible level, it will be rejected by importing countries impacting the export prospects of Indian cardamom. There are carcinogenic elements in chemical colouring and legal action can be initiated if it is found in the samples,” says a scientist at the Indian Cardamom Research Institute, Myladumpara. Natural way “Through natural scientific processing and by controlling humidity, green colour can be maintained in the beans,” he says. The colouring is usually done at dryer units. Green colour in dried cardamom creates a feeling among farmers that the produce is first grade if the process is done at a particular unit. At times, farmers also insist on adding chemical colour. In the domestic market, the colouring is not monitored and the practice goes unimpeded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/chemical-colouring-of-cardamom-suspected/article33318565.ece
13 December 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Cycling on, for the sake of tourism||With the tourism sector slowly picking up in the post-lockdown period, two young women have embarked on a bicycle journey to various tourism destinations in the State to give the message to the public that anyone can enjoy these scenic surroundings. They will travel to 17 sites in the State and have reached Idukki. Parvathy, 22, and Meera, 24, the two travel enthusiasts, met through social media and decided to travel to all major tourist destinations in the State. Their aim is to create awareness among the public that tourism in Kerala is back on its feet. ‘Safe for women’ “We want the world to know that tourism destinations in Kerala are safe for women travellers,” they said. The cycle ride was in keeping with all COVID-19 protocols. Prasad Manjali, organiser of the programme, said the cycle ride started from Poovar and would touch sites such as Kovalam, Shanghumughom Beach, Varkala Beach, Paravoor, Kollam, Ashtamudi, Alappuzha, Kumarakom, Mararikulam, Changanassery, Thekkady, Munnar, Kochi, Cherai Beach, Athirappilly waterfalls, Kappad Beach, and Nelliyampathy to end on December 17 at Wayanad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cycling-on-for-tourism/article33318541.ece
13 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||European envoys all praise for KMRL||A nine-member delegation led by French, German and European Union Ambassadors to India, which visited Kochi on Saturday, coinciding with the fifth anniversary of the Paris Agreement to contain climate change, visited Water Metro construction sites, the Cochin Shipyard where 23 AC ferries of the project are under construction and Kochi Metro’s operation, command and control centre at Muttom. The team also checked out KMRL’s Non-Motorised-Transport (NMT) initiatives, e-autos, bicycles and a pair of e-buses that have been introduced. German Ambassador Walter J. Lindner expressed happiness at the progress made in the Water Metro project. “Even amidst the COVID and monsoon, KMRL has managed quite a lot of progress. I can’t wait to come back in two months for the project’s inauguration. KMRL is an excellent partner. We are glad that we are witnessing results,” he said. French Ambassador Emmanuel Lenain lauded the Kochi Metro Rail project and termed it as a state-of-the-art metro system. “We are very proud that the project that is co-funded by AFD (a French development assistance agency) is very well interconnected and gender balance is maintained.” Ugo Astuto, Ambassador of the European Union, said that Kochi was an excellent example of Team Europe in action and of the EU-India partnership for the promotion of sustainable investments in urban mobility. “We look forward to further strengthen this partnership,” he said. “The visit of the three Ambassadors will strengthen the State government’s and KMRL’s relationship with these countries and the European Union. KMRL successfully completed the first phase of Kochi metro with partial funding from AFD. We are on the verge of commissioning the Water Metro project which is being co-funded by KfW [a German lending agency],” said Alkesh Kumar Sharma, MD of the metro agency. Following the team’s visit to the Cochin Shipyard, they boarded an e-bus and reached the Vyttila metro Station. They took stock of the work progress of the Water Metro station at the Vyttila Mobility Hub, following which they bicycled their way to the metro station to board a train to the Edappally metro station. They were briefed by, among others, Mr. Sharma, District Collector S. Suhas, and Jafar Malik, CEO of Cochin Smart Mission Ltd. The guests planted a few saplings in Muttom. Goethe Centre opened The Goethe Centre in Kochi will invigorate Indo-German socio-cultural links, the German Ambassador Walter J. Lindner said. He was speaking after inaugurating the centre which functions under the German Ministry of External Affairs, at Chavara Cultural Centre, here on Saturday. The skill and dedication of the people of Kerala was highly appreciated back in Germany. The opening of Goethe Centre would help people here to learn German, while also enabling staging of German art forms in the city, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/european-envoys-all-praise-for-kmrl/article33318479.ece
13 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Heightened security at centres storing EVMs||Almost twice the number of police officers compared to the previous elections has been deployed this time for the security of the counting centres where sealed Electronic Voting Machines (EVMs) are being kept in strongrooms. The move, said police sources, was in compliance with the directions of the State Election Commission. The district has 28 counting centres where nearly 600 police personnel have been deployed for round-the-clock security in shifts alternating between active and turn duty separated by four to six hours. “We have put in place a strong two-tier inner and outer perimeter ring security in all 19 counting centres within our limits since the midnight of polling day. We will further fortify the centres using barricades and put up strict access control from the eve of the counting day, permitting only officials and counting agents permitted by the District Election Officer,” said K. Karthik, District Police Chief (Ernakulam Rural). A team of 21 officials, including 16 civil police personnel for sentry duty, two senior civil police officers as guard commanders supervising the deployment of armed guards before strongrooms and two guard officers of the rank of assistant sub inspector or sub inspector from the Armed Reserve Camp or local police stations concerned, is deployed at each centre under the overall charge of an officer of the rank of inspector. “At any given time, a team of 10 personnel will be on duty, including armed guards on sentry duty before strongrooms. Unlike in the past, a team will be on flying duty as they will keep patrolling the outer perimeter on foot,” said a sub inspector serving as guard officer. Continuous duty Meanwhile, the force in the district remains stretched with many of them having to do continuous duty for days, having deployed for polling duty in other districts as well in the three-phased polls. There were officers who had to join for booth duty in the district having just returned from the first phase of voting in Pathanamathitta, said a police official on duty at a counting centre. To make matters worse, the pandemic also continues to take its toll on the police force.  We have put in place a strong two-tier inner and outer perimeter ring security in all 19 counting centres within our limits since the midnight of polling day K. Karthik District Police Chief (Ernakulam Rural)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/heightened-security-at-centres-storing-evms/article33318489.ece
13 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||When pets turn pariahs overnight||Recently, the veterinarians attached to the Animal Birth Control for Dogs (ABCD) programme of the Kochi Corporation found two dachshunds and a pedigree dog among the strays brought in for sterilisation. They were among the countless such pet dogs being callously abandoned on the streets of the city. “Those dogs were far from being terminally ill or old. One of them just had a mammary tumour in its nascent stage, which was removed during the course of the surgery, and both were given away in adoption. We keep receiving many such high pedigree dogs found abandoned for the flimsiest of reasons like a minor disease, simply because their owners cannot bother to spare time for them,” said Sonika Sathish, veterinary surgeon, ABCD. The incident in which a dog was brutalised after being tied to the boot of a car and dragged along the road near Paravur on Friday has brought into focus the inhumane practice of abandonment of pets. “The vet attending to the dog found older wounds all over its body, indicating that it might have been subjected to such cruelty even before and it was so poorly fed that its ribs were protruding,” said Krishnan T.J. of the Daya Animal Welfare Organisation, who tracked down the dog and took it home overnight. He said having a dog was a commitment of 10 to 14 years and demanded as much care as a human child. The canine should be allowed to live its entire cycle and be given a decent burial when it eventually died rather than being dumped on the streets at the first sign of inconvenience, said Mr. Krishnan. Sally Varma, senior campaigner, Humane Society International India, said cruelty to animals exposed a far more malignant issue. “A very thin line separates violent crimes against animals from that directed towards humans, exposing the dangers of not taking the former seriously and treating it as the concern of animal welfare activists alone,” said Ms. Varma. She said though Sections 428 and 429 of the Indian Penal Code and Section 11 of the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act served as a deterrent, entailing even imprisonment, preventing such callous acts was a matter of compassion. She ruled out setting up shelters for dogs towards the fag end of their lives since that was the time they longed more than ever to be with the family that they had known all along. Some pockets in the city such as the Container Terminal Road with vast isolated stretches have emerged as a safe haven for those looking to clandestinely dump the pets they no longer wanted. Akhil Babu, a youngster who was instrumental in alerting the police about the incident on Friday, said he had witnessed people driving away after dumping dogs along the isolated stretch near the Antony Parambithara bridge along the Thevara-Willingdon Island route. “Domesticated pets hardly survive the streets,” said Mr. Krishnan.  Having a dog as a pet was commitment for 10-14 years.   Krishnan T.J. Daya Animal Welfare Organisation||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/when-pets-turn-unwanted-overnight/article33318492.ece
13 December 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Three European envoys vouch for green economy||Three ambassadors from Europe who converged in Kochi on Saturday on the fifth anniversary of the Paris Agreement on combating climate change say that sustainable growth and job creation is possible in the post-COVID era through a green economy. In Europe, 30% of the financial packages are for green projects, said European Union Ambassador to India Ugo Astuto. It is high time countries rose to the threat posed by climate change, since cities worldwide contribute to 75% of the toxic emissions. India too has committed itself to the Paris Agreement, he says, while the three diplomats addressed mediapersons at a ‘stake out’ here on Saturday. Wins global acclaim German Ambassador to India Walter J. Lindner says Kerala, especially Kochi, has won global acclaim since the international airport here is the only one in the world powered entirely by solar energy. The city has also been identified as a hub for green mobility, especially since the Water Metro project is on the anvil. E-rickshaws and e-buses are set to operate as feeder services to modes of public transport such as the Kochi metro. A smart card that can be used for different modes of transport is an added attraction. Already, German bank KfW has extended a Rs. 1,400-crore loan to rebuild roads in Kerala, says Mr. Linder. Sets 2050 as deadline Referring to efforts for a green economy in France, French Ambassador to India Emmanuel Lenain says that his country had set 2050 as the deadline to become carbon neutral, as part of efforts to overcome climate crisis. “We are cooperating with Kerala on rolling out many e-mobility initiatives, to further the cause of sustainable travel.’’ Every year, French development agencies finance new projects worldwide. The focus is on innovative, eco-friendly, and gender-specific projects, including in Kerala. There will not be any trade off between growth and sustainability, says Mr. Lenain adding that ‘smart green projects’ in mobility and other areas are set to be one of the biggest engines for economic growth in the coming years. This is especially so since millions of people are migrating to cities, especially in India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/three-european-envoys-vouch-by-green-economy/article33318462.ece
13 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||732 new infections in district||A total of 143 of the 732 new COVID-19 infections in Ernakulam could not be traced to a source. Twelve health workers were among the infected. Meanwhile, 510 patients recovered from the disease. Koovappady continued to throw up the most number of cases in the district with 37 new patients, followed by Thrikkakara (26), Parakkadavu (25), Kizhakkambalam (21), Manjaloor, and Rayamangalam (20 each), and Thripunithura (18). INHS Sanjivani reported two cases while a police officer was also diagnosed with the disease. There are 8,128 active cases in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/732-new-infections-in-district/article33318484.ece
13 December 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Ro-ro service to ferry commuters, motorists||Motorists and commuters could shortly be able to travel on board the proposed roll-on roll-off (ro-ro) ferry services that are slated to be launched in January in the Willingdon Island-Bolgatty Island corridor. The services that are primarily aimed at ferrying container-laden lorries in the corridor were slated for commissioning on November 9 by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. However, it was indefinitely postponed owing to reasons like the local body polls. The vessels are slated for launch in January. Motorists and commuters too might be permitted on board, to ensure feasible operation of the ferries, sources said. Meanwhile, the Inland Waterways Authority of India (IWAI) has taken possession of a pair of container ro-ro ferries that were built at the Cochin Shipyard. “The private firm that previously operated a ro-ro ferry in the corridor was keen to permit motorists in the vessel, since most container lorry operators continued service through the NH Bypass and Container Road, despite cost and time advantage if they opted for the waterway. We are confident this will not be the situation now, since lorry operators have assured their patronage,” they said. 20-minute trip Ro-ro ferries cover the 3-km waterway in 20 minutes whereas the road route takes over an hour. From the Bolgatty Island terminal, commuters need to cross only the first Goshree Bridge and travel 1 km through Abraham Madamakkal Road to reach the High Court Junction. The service will thus be of considerable help to port employees and people from West Kochi, apart from container lorry operators. Although owned by the IWAI, the two new ferries will be operated by the city-based Kerala Shipping and Inland Navigation Corporation. Each ferry can carry up to 30 cars or other vehicles that occupy as much space.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ro-ro-service-to-ferry-commuters-motorists/article33318476.ece
13 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Hoteliers call for system to monitor meat prices||Hotel and restaurant owners in Kochi have called for a permanent system to monitor the price of meat, especially chicken, in the wake of what they called were “big swings” in price levels that did not actually reflect the market situation. “The price of chicken goes up without any relation to supply levels or rise in cost of production,” said Azeez Moosa, president of the Ernakulam district unit of Hotel and Restaurant Owners’ Association. There was no fixed rate for the meat but the price appeared to be fixed arbitrarily, he said as he called on the authorities to intervene and to set up a permanent system to monitor the market price levels. A restaurant owner in the city, Sunesh Bhasi, said there was currently no mechanism to monitor the price levels and most restaurant owners were led by the market rates. Sometimes the rate went up, making it difficult to get a profit out of serving some dishes, he said. Hoteliers also pointed out that the end of the year generally saw a slackening in demand for meat as the Mandalam and Lenten season set in. However, this year has been an exception with the price of meat ruling high. Mr. Azeez said the price of chicken went up during the festival season even if there was no shortage of birds and without any reasonable rise in production cost. The price tends to cool after the festivals. He pointed out that the price of chicken would move up ahead of Christmas as demand tended to go up. Food delivery app Meanwhile, restaurant owners and hoteliers in Kochi are pinning their hopes on a new delivery app, ‘REZOY’, that is now being used on a pilot basis by around 200 outlets in the city. “The trial run has been quite a success and we are satisfied with the results,” said Mr. Azeez. He added that the delivery app would be extended to all the restaurants and eateries before the year-end. The hoteliers have complained that mainstream delivery companies charged too much commission from hoteliers. It was difficult to turn in a profit with home deliveries, said Mr. Azeez. He expressed optimism that the new app would cut down on commission, which would be just about 10%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hoteliers-call-for-system-to-monitor-meat-prices/article33318480.ece
13 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Nine arrested for assaulting voter||The Kunnathunadu police on Saturday arrested nine persons in connection with the attack on a voter at a booth at Kummanodu in Kizhakkamabalam panchayat on the polling day. The arrested were identified as Abdul Aziz, 40, Ranjith, 29, Faizal, 39, Jaffer, 40, Muhammadali, 42, Shihab, 43, Sinshad, 34, Sulfy, 34, and Ansari, 34. Video goes viral  A video of the attack on the voter at a booth in ward 7 had gone viral in the social media. He was stopped from voting despite possessing the voter’s identity card. Twenty20, the corporate-backed apolitical outfit, had also lodged a complaint with the State Election Commission and the District Election Officer, seeking repolling in two booths on account of the alleged violence and booth capturing. The victim, Printu, a resident of Mananthavady, living on rent in the grama panchayat, has his name in the voter’s list. He later returned to cast his vote under police security. The police have also registered a case against 50-odd people under the Kerala Epidemic Diseases Ordinance on the charge of assembling in violation of the COVID-19 protocol.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nine-arrested-for-assaulting-voter/article33318491.ece
13 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||HC orders release of funds for Op Breakthrough||The Kerala High Court has asked the State government to directly transfer Rs. 4.88 crore for the Operation Breakthrough flood mitigation project, which is currently being implemented in the city, within one week. It was by modifying his earlier order that Justice Devan Ramachandran issued the fresh order. In his earlier order, the judge had asked the Kochi Corporation to write to the State government to set apart the amount from its annual plan fund for the Kochi project. The court had also asked the State government to consider the letter from the local body positively. On its part, the corporation had also written to the State government as directed by the High Court. However, during the judge’s interaction with the Secretary-in-charge and the executive engineer of the local body, the officials pointed out that the civic body may not be in a position to seek the transfer of the amount as the entire plan fund was allocated for various projects. The officials also pointed out that the government could directly transfer the funds to Operation Breakthrough. Accepting the contention of the officials, the court directed the government to transfer the funds after considering the letter issued by the corporation as its consent for the transfer of funds. The court refused to accept the submission of the government pleader regarding the time-frame of one week set in the court order for the release of the funds. The court directed the government to transfer the funds within one week with the concurrence of the Finance Department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hc-orders-release-of-funds-for-op-breakthrough/article33318477.ece
13 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||COVID wave grips Aluva cops||The pandemic seems to be getting a fresh grip over police personnel in Ernakulam rural, especially in Aluva, in a week marked by the local body polls. At last count, 42 police personnel have tested positive for SARS-COV-2 in the past one week with the Aluva East police station alone accounting for 30 of them. The District Police Chief (Ernakulam Rural) also remains in quarantine after his gunman recently tested positive. With more police personnel set to undergo tests in the coming days, the number may escalate further as was feared in the post-election scenario. The Aluva East police station with a strength of 76 personnel has been further stretched thin with 20 of them being assigned various duties, nine being deployed for duty at the counting centre, and another five being among the 200-strong contingent from rural police being deployed for the final phase of polling at Kannur. Two cops assigned for security duty at the counting centre were also tested positive on Friday. The station can now, at best, do with basic duties with its severely depleted workforce. Discontent is brewing among the force against the alleged denial of permission for quarantine to even those considered to be primary contacts of the infected. This, they feared, would trigger further spread of the disease among their family members and the public. No relief seems to be in sight with police deployment imminent over the decision of the Jacobites faction of the Church to launch their protest in churches in the district from Sunday, triggering apprehensions of a greater spread among the force. Police Association office-bearers said requests had been made to exempt the Aluva East police from any such deployment. Though initially there were dedicated quarantine facilities in Aluva and Perumbavoor for police personnel, they were more or less inoperative now with the majority of the infected staying back at their homes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/another-covid-wave-grips-cops-in-aluva/article33318487.ece
13 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Two held for attacking cops||The North police have arrested two transgender persons on the charge of attacking police personnel. The arrested, residents of Kottayam, stand accused of attacking North sub inspector V.B. Anas and his colleague Jinesh while they were patrolling. The police said that the officers came under attack by a group of transgenders at Judges Avenue on Friday around 1.15 a.m. They were found in a huddle without wearing masks and when asked to wear it, they started abusing the policemen who were then allegedly assaulted while attempting to take a video. When reinforcements arrived, the group fled the scene and the two accused were later nabbed from near Manappattiparambu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-held-for-attacking-cops/article33318483.ece
13 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Jacobites to enter ‘seized’ churches today||Members of the Jacobite faction of the Malankara Church will on Sunday enter the nearly 50 churches recently ‘seized’ by the State government from it and handed over to the Orthodox faction following a Supreme Court order on July 3, 2017. A spokesman of the Jacobite Church said here on Saturday that various lay organisations had come out in support of the move. The faithful, along with priests and metropolitans, would enter the churches. However, the spokesman said: “We are not for any confrontation.” If the faithful are allowed, along with the priests and bishops, to enter the churches, we will enter. No Mass will be celebrated, but prayers would be held, he said. The protest being organised by the Jacobites is led by Metropolitan Thomas Mar Alexandrios.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/jacobites-to-enter-seized-churches-today/article33318495.ece
13 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Over 240 quarantined people voted at polling booths||At least 243 voters in quarantine, either with COVID-19 or as part of the pandemic surveillance, exercised their right to franchise in the local body polls in Ernakulam district on December 10, according to information made available by the district information office. The number remained incomplete, pending information from some local bodies. The State Election Commission had allowed people testing positive for SARS-CoV-2 or placed in preventive quarantine between 3 p.m. on December 9 and till the time the voting got over on December 10, to obtain certificate from respective medical officers to be eligible for voting at their respective booths after 5 p.m. on December 10. They were to turn up wearing PPE kits. In all, 17 people voted, arriving in PPE kits, in Aluva municipality while Vengola panchayat had 16 such voters casting their votes. Vazahakkulam panchayat saw 15 such voters while Vadavucode panchayat had 12. Special ballot Those who tested positive and were in quarantine 10 days before the election were allowed to vote using special ballot. There were 18,287 such eligible votes in the district. Of them, 12,594 figured on the list of voters who were given special ballots through designated officials or by post, a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/over-240-quarantined-people-voted-at-polling-booths/article33318485.ece
13 December 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Kollam strengthens fight against virus||Taking into account the high chances of a spike in cases, the Health Department has launched an intensive campaign for COVID-19 containment in the district. The campaign with the motto ‘zero infection, zero transmission and zero death’ will follow a systematic action plan starting with augmented tests among a target population of 30,000. “We are expecting a surge in coming days since COVID-19 protocol was not properly followed in many parts during the local body elections. Then, there is also the threat of transmission from asymptomatic patients,” said Deputy DMO R. Sandhya. While the number of tests will be increased, staff deployed in for election duty and others who were actively involved in the process will be given priority. The test will be conducted extensively among police personnel, polling officers, election agents, drivers, inter-State travellers and volunteers. Mobile units The department will also strengthen surveillance at the settlements of migrant labourers, destitute homes and old age homes while tests will be extended to major markets and harbours in the district. “Five mobile units will be used for conducting tests. All PHCs will conduct tests for candidates, booth agents and other officials from the area. Swabs of all fever cases will be collected and contact tracing will be intensified.” Re-tests will be conducted after recommended intervals and the contact list will be prepared on a war footing. A district-level Health team will conduct inspections at hospitals and private labs. The department has also instructed all hospitals in the district to strengthen infection control practices. Reverse quarantine “Another issue is family members of patients under home care not following the guidelines. Measures will be taken to ensure that they are following the protocol and reverse quarantine will be advised for all those belonging to vulnerable category. COVID-19 corner will be set up in all hospitals and follow-up will be ensured for all recovered patients,” she said. NRIs and persons from other States will be asked to remain in quarantine for a particular time frame even if the antigen test is negative. “After seven days they should take the mandatory COVID-19 test.” In three months All the COVID-19 hospitals, first-line treatment centres and second-line treatment centres in the district will be be put on standby to tackle any possible situation. Lifestyle disease control mechanism of the department will be made more efficient and monthly review sessions will be held at different levels. “The idea is to bring the situation under control within three months. In the first month the cases will be brought down by 60% and in the next month the target will be 80%. By March we are hoping to achieve 100% control,” she added.  Campaign will begin with more tests, especially among those involved in election duty||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kollam-strengthens-virus-fight/article33318543.ece
13 December 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Women’s panel to hold adalat in Kollam||The State Women’s Commission will hold its adalat in the district at Jawahar Bala Bhavan from 10.30 a.m. on December 15. Those attending the adalat are instructed to follow COVID-19 protocol. Only complainants and respondents will be permitted to enter the hall. The presence of children below the age of 10, senior citizens, and persons with health issues should be avoided, if possible.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/womens-panel-to-hold-adalat-in-kollam/article33318542.ece
13 December 2020||Kollam,KERALA||e-adalat for residents of Punalur taluk||The District Collector’s online public grievances redressal adalat for the residents of Punalur taluk will be held from 11 a.m. on December 21. Residents can register their complaints through the Akshaya centres at Kulathupuzha, Eroor, Alamcherry, Anchal Market Junction, and Punalur Kattadi from December 13 to 17. Maximum cases will be settled online on the day of the adalat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/e-adalat-for-residents-of-punalur-taluk/article33318544.ece
13 December 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||595 new cases in Kottayam||The number of new COVID-19 cases in Kottayam continued to rise at a rapid pace with 595 more testing positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Saturday. Of the new cases, 586 contracted the virus through local contact. The new cases also included 89 children and 85 persons aged above 60. Kottayam municipality, which reported 55 cases, continued to lead the tally, followed by Kanjirappally with 24 cases. Ayarkkunnam and Mundakkayam reported 22 and 20 cases respectively. With 387 recoveries during the day, the district has 5,309 active cases. Two deaths in Kollam Kollam reported 354 new cases of COVID-19, two deaths and 447 recoveries on Saturday. While 347 patients contracted the infection through contact, others include four persons from other States, one case with no known source, one NRI and one health worker. The Health Department also confirmed that the deaths of a 73-year-old Kunnikode resident and 63-year-old Karunagappally resident are due to COVID-19. Case with no known source has been reported from Thazhava while a 28-year-old Punalur resident is the health worker who tested positive. The district currently has 14,767 persons under observation and the total number of samples collected is 5,07,165. While 1,516 persons completed home quarantine on Saturday, the Health Department has traced 1,25,317 primary and 11,315 secondary contacts of the positive cases. At present the number of active cases in Kollam is 3,500. As many as 333 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Pathanamthitta on Saturday, of which 308 contracted the virus through local contact. The contact source of 85 cases were yet to be identified. Among the local bodies, Ranni-Perunnad that comprises the Sabarimala region reported 26 cases, followed by Pandalam-Thekkekara with 20 cases. The disease claimed two more lives in the district, taking the total number of deaths to 138. The victims were identified as an 84-year-old Ayiroor native and a 68-year-old Kalloopara native. With 196 recoveries during the day, the district currently has 2,677 active cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/595-new-cases-in-kottayam/article33318546.ece
13 December 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||NCP given short shrift, says Kappan||Rumblings in the Left Democratic Front (LDF) over the ‘undue’ treatment given to the Kerala Congress (M) faction led by Jose K. Mani resurfaced on Saturday with Nationalist Congress Party leader Mani C. Kappan, MLA, airing his discontent over seat sharing in the local body polls. “Despite taking a clear lead in nine of the 13 panchayats and one municipality in the Pala constituency in the Assembly bypoll, we were allotted only a couple of seats to the local bodies this time. From a party that contested in around 400 seats across the State in 2015, the NCP’s share has come down to 165 this time. We will be registering our protest in the appropriate platform,” the MLA told mediapersons, on the sidelines of a function organised by the party to celebrate the 80th birthday of NCP president Sharad Pawar. The NCP, a long-standing ally, had to make some major adjustments within the LDF, especially in central Travancore, following the entry of the KC(M) faction into the front. Against the 26 seats it contested during the previous local body polls in Kottayam, the party was allotted just seven this time. Mr. Kappan, who is the Pala MLA, had locked horns with the KC(M) earlier too. Following reports that Mr.Mani had demanded the Pala seat during informal consultations with the LDF ahead of its entry into the coalition, Mr.Kappan stated that there was no question of giving up the seat to anyone and for anything, even for a Rajya Sabha seat. While his position vis-a-vis the Pala seat had remained intact, Mr.Kappan sought to tone down his opposition later in view of the local body polls. Mr. Kappan, who had unsuccessfully contested in Pala against KC(M) patriarch K.M. Mani three times, rode on his popularity and the factional fight within the KC(M) to emerge victorious in the byelection last year. Meanwhile, the Communist Party of India (Marxist) sought to dismiss Mr. Kappan’s claim as ‘irrelevant’ and pointed out that all parties in the coalition had to make adjustments for accommodating the KC(M) faction.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ncp-given-short-shrift-says-kappan/article33318566.ece
13 December 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||CPI(M) activist assaulted||The police have launched a probe into the attack of a Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] activist, allegedly by the Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) workers in Erattupetta on Saturday. The incident occurred in the morning, when the victim, identified as Noor Salam, was returning home after shopping. With swords, rods As he reached Aruvithura, a group of assailants approached his two-wheeler and attacked him with swords and metal rods. The victim, who suffered serious injuries all over his body, was soon rushed to a hospital. The SDPI has denied the allegation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cpim-activist-assaulted-in-erattupetta/article33318547.ece
13 December 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||MGU inks MoU for organic fertilizers||Mahatma Gandhi University, Kottayam, has inked a memorandum of understanding with a private firm to develop organic and enriched biofertilizers in collaboration with the School of Bio Sciences. At a function on the varsity campus, MGU Registrar B. Pregash Kumar and N.R. Jaimon, chairman of Spices Producer Company Ltd, signed the document in the presence of Vice Chancellor Sabu Thomas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mgu-inks-mou-for-organic-fertilizers/article33318567.ece
13 December 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Campaign concludes in Kozhikode||With campaigning for the three-tier local body polls ending on Saturday, all the three fronts, especially the Left Democratic Front (LDF) and the United Democratic Front (UDF), have exuded confidence of emerging victorious in the district. While the LDF hopes to improve its performance on the strength of its achievements in the past five years as well as the welfare schemes initiated by the State government, the UDF is striving to make a comeback by levelling charges of corruption and misgovernance against the Left parties. The National Democratic Alliance (NDA), though not a major force in the district, however, is focusing on wooing the urban electorate. Elections will be held in 91 local bodies — Kozhikode Corporation, seven municipalities, 70 grama panchayats, 12 block panchayats, and the district panchayat — on Monday. Namesakes and rebels are likely to spoil chances of official candidates. In the 2015 elections, the LDF emerged victorious in the Kozhikode Corporation and the Kozhikode District Panchayat by winning two-thirds of seats. It also won the civic bodies of Vadakara, Koyilandy, Feroke, Mukkom, Payyoli, and Ramanattukara but lost the Koduvally Municipality to the Congress-IUML combine. Besides, the front won 10 out of the 12 block panchayats and 48 out of the 70 grama panchayats. The UDF is giving a spirited fight after having won the two Lok Sabha seats of Kozhikode and Vadakara, thrice in a row even as it prepares for the Assembly elections. However, its efforts were dampened after the Loktantrik Janata Dal (LJD) walked out of the coalition. It remains to be seen how well the Congress and the IUML drum up the anti-incumbency factor among voters. As for the BJP, its poll managers have marshalled resources across the district. Previously, the party nominees won just 27 wards, but their presence was felt in the corporation after it won seven divisions. Now, its candidates have given a fresh dimension to polls by churning a three-cornered fight in at least 45 of the 75 divisions in the corporation council.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/campaign-concludes-in-kozhikode/article33318453.ece
13 December 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Scams, violence, political tie-ups dominate poll campaign||Debates on corruption, scams, political violence and shifts in political tie-ups have dominated the election campaign in the four northern districts going to the polls on Monday. Of the four northern districts, the Left Democratic Front (LDF) traditionally has sway in local body elections in Kasaragod, Kannur and Kozhikode districts, while Malappuram, being the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) bastion, remains rock solid behind the United Democratic Front. How the major parties and fronts fare in their traditional strongholds will be keenly watched as they are fighting fiercely in the election. The BJP-led National Democratic Alliance is also no less combative on the election from the region this time. Major highlight What is being keenly watched in the local body elections in the four districts is the electoral outcome of the local electoral tie-up of the UDF with the Welfare Party of India (WPI) of the Jamaat-e-Islami. In the 2015 elections, the LDF had seat adjustments with the WPI in several local bodies in the region including the Mukkam municipality in Kozhikode. The UDF leadership’s divergent takes on the tie-up are seen as a reflection of the rumblings within the UDF over the tie-up. The Samastha Sunni faction, which is pro-IUML, has taken a stand against the seat adjustments with the WPI. Corporations in focus One of the major highlights of the elections in the four districts is the poll outcomes in the Kozhikode and Kannur Corporations. Both the UDF and the LDF, which in the last term alternately ruled the Kannur Corporation with the support of a Congress rebel councillor, are keen to capture the civic body. The Kozhikode Corporation has been run by the LDF for over four decades. Campaign issues While the LDF during the electioneering has made much use of the arrests of IUML leader and MLA M.C. Kamaruddin in a gold jewellery scam in Kasaragod and former Public Works Minister V.K. Ebrahim Kunju over the Palarivattom flyover scam and the bribery case against IUML leader and MLA K.M. Shaji, the Supreme Court’s rejection of the State government’s plea challenging the High Court’s order for CBI probe into the murders of Youth Congress workers Kripesh and Sarath Lal came in handy for the UDF. The UDF also highlighted the case of gold smuggling through diplomatic baggage in which the Chief Minister's former Principal Secretary M. Sivasankar has been arrested. The LDF's major campaign theme was the welfare schemes and pensions instituted by the LDF government. The BJP, for its part, went full throttle playing up the various Centre-sponsored schemes launched by the Narendra Modi government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/scams-violence-political-tie-ups-dominate-poll-campaign/article33318563.ece
13 December 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Poll preparations enter final leg||Preparations for the local body polls are in the final phase in Kozhikode district, where 6,796 candidates are in the fray. District Collector Seeram Sambasiva Rao said that basic facilities had been ensured in all the 2,987 polling booths in the district, and temporary arrangements have been made to address deficiencies, if any. All booths will have ramps to cater for differently abled voters. There are 120 problematic booths in the district, where all security arrangements have been made, the Collector said. While 91 booths will have webcasting, video recording will be done in 29 booths. Besides, parties and candidates can pay a fee and request for video recording in booths of their choice. A total of 17,303 polling officials have been deployed in the district, of whom 14,935 are directly in charge of booths. Besides them, 400 special polling officers / assistants have been drafted to oversee voting by COVID-19 patients and those under quarantine. As many as 168 sectoral officers will distribute forms and essential articles at booths. There are also 1,800 Returning/Assistant Returning Officers, who will handle nominations and distribution of polling materials to polling officials. Meanwhile, defacement squads are on the lookout for violations. One district-level squad and four taluk-level squads are serving in the district. In line with the COVID-19 protocol, all polling officials have been provided with the necessary safety equipment. Each booth will have eight PPE kits, seven litres of hand sanitiser and 14 masks. Officials will wear PPE kits during the final hours of polling when COVID-19 patients are likely to turn up for voting. Arrangements are also in place to ensure the green protocol at all booths. Polling will be held on Monday in 1,226 wards in 70 grama panchayats, 268 wards in seven municipalities, and 75 wards in the Kozhikode Municipal Corporation. Besides, elections are held in 169 block divisions and 27 divisions of the district panchayat. Polling has been postponed in Ward 11 of the Mavoor grama panchayat following the death of a candidate. There are 25,33,024 voters in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/poll-preparations-enter-final-leg/article33318456.ece
13 December 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Stray incidents mar campaign finale||Even in the midst of stringent COVID-19 protocol, the activists of various political parties along with their candidates celebrated the final rounds of their open campaign ahead of the local body elections in the district on Saturday. Confusion prevailed in many areas over the deadline to end the campaign, which eventually led the workers to lock horns with the police. In Kozhikode city, the workers of the Indian Union Muslim League and the CPI(M) ended up in a minor clash. The Town police said the campaigners, who gathered near Kuttichira, were provoked by some irksome slogans. Workers of both the parties were found fuelling the situation, which was finally managed by policemen from various other city stations, they said. Though the participants were far less compared with that of the previous terms’ outdoor campaigns, there were a number of bike rallies led by youths to pep up the last round of road shows. As usual, they carried specially-prepared flags and festoons to add colour to the parade. In place of mass rallies, the mike announcements kept the voters engaged throughout the day. Some of the star campaigners and senior politicians were also present in the district to drum up the public events. In many locations, the COVID-19 protocol and the Collector’s call to refrain from high-spirited grand finale of the campaigning ( kottikalasam ) were thrown to the winds. At Chennamangalore, UDF campaigners, who gathered in large numbers, drew police action. The presence of Welfare Party workers along with Congress and IUML activists in the final UDF campaign also turned out to be a hot topic of discussion for their rival parties. Considering the chances of clashes, the police had intensified security arrangements in all politically sensitive locations. According to the election authorities, the largest number of 121 sensitive booths is now in the limits of Nadapuram police station limits.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/stray-incidents-mar-campaign-finale/article33318458.ece
13 December 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Writer U.A. Khader is no more||U.A. Khader, who died here on Saturday at the age of 85 of lung disease, was one of the important writers of fiction in Malayalam of his generation. He was a winner of the Sahitya Akademi and Kerala Sahitya Akademi awards. The world and the characters he created around the fictional village of Thrikkottoor, through his works such as Thrikkottoor Peruma and Thrikkottoor Novellas, have been delighting readers for decades. Not many writers have been able to paint a vivid picture of life in the rustic north Malabar the way he did. Being a painter must have helped. A painter too Before establishing himself as a writer to reckon with in the rich, flourishing Malayalam literature, he had nursed ambitions to become a painter. He even learned it academically, from the College of Fine Arts, Chennai, where Paris Viswanathan and T.K. Padmini – both of whom would attain fame as exceptional painters — were also students at the time. Khader was destined to choose the pen and not the brush. He had begun publishing from a young age, encouraged by former Chief Minister C.H. Mohammed Koya, who was then the editor of the magazine Chandrika.  Born to a Burmese mother and Keralite father, he came to Koyilandy, his father’s native place, after his mother’s death and the commencement of World War II. He completed his schooling at Government High School, Koyilandy. In Myanmar till seven Though he came to Kerala from Myanmar only at the age of seven, he had little trouble in mastering Malayalam. After writing novels like Changala , he decided to come up with something that would help him find his own distinct voice. He did that with the short story Thrikkottoor Amsham. It finally won him the recognition he craved, and merited. He is the author of several novels, short stories, essays, travelogues, and works for children in Malayalam. Aghorasivam , Kalasam , Khuraisikkoottam, and Krishnamaniyile Theenaalam are some of his other noted works. His latest work Shatru was released in 2011. Some of his works have been translated to English, Hindi, Kannada, and Tamil. Khader had worked in Akashavani, Kozhikode; Kerala Government Health Services; and the Institute of Maternal and Child Health attached to Government Medical College in Kozhikode. He retired from government service in 1990 while working in the administrative section of Government General Hospital in the city. He was a member of the Kerala Sahitya Akademi and the Kerala Lalithakala Akademi, besides being president of the Purogamana Kalasahitya Sangham.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/writer-ua-khader-is-no-more/article33318494.ece
13 December 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||SHRC orders probe against police officers||The Kerala State Human Rights Commission (KSHRC) has ordered a comprehensive probe into revelations by a youth from Kakkodi in his purported suicide note in the form of a video on some police officers in Kozhikode city. An order issued by KSHRC judicial member P. Mohandas on Friday directed the District Police Chief (Kozhikode City) to appoint a Deputy Superintendent of Police to probe the charges and submit the investigation report in three weeks. It was on December 5 that the body of the youth was found hanging from a tree near his wife’s house within the Chevayur police station limits. On learning about the youth’s reported threat of ending his life, the police had reached out to him. However, he did not reportedly cooperate with them. The youth had made a Facebook post in which he had held a few policemen responsible for his plight. In the video, he had alleged that he was being labelled as a thief by some policemen without any evidence. He had also accused two policemen of falsely implicating him in more than three cases. He had alleged that the cases were registered against him after he filed petitions against two police officers over their reported misbehaviour. Those in distress or having suicidal tendencies may seek help and counselling by calling the Indian Medical Association’s ‘Thanal’, a Kozhikode-based centre, at 0495-2760000.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/shrc-orders-probe-against-police-officers/article33318459.ece
13 December 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||763 new cases in Kozhikode; 619 recover||As many as 763 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kozhikode district on Saturday and 619 others recovered from the infection. A release said that 738 people contracted the infection through local transmission even as the source was unknown in 15 cases. The number of active cases from the district rose to 6,666 on the day. Meanwhile, seven deaths due to COVID-19 were reported at the Government Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode, on Friday, and one person passed away on Saturday. In Wayanad As many as 283 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Wayanad district on Saturday . The district has so far reported 13,132 COVID-19 cases. Of these, 11,099 have recovered from the disease, including 320 persons on the day. In Malappuram As many as 765 people tested positive for COVID-19 in Malappuram district on Saturday. While 737 of them contracted the virus through contact with infected persons, the source of infection could not be traced in 24 cases. District officials said that as many as 611 persons recovered from the disease on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/763-new-cases-in-kozhikode-619-recover/article33318454.ece
13 December 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Calicut varsity private registration from Dec. 17||Calicut University will open the online link for private registration of graduate and undergraduate courses on December 17. The last date to register without fine is December 31.  Applications can be submitted with a fine of Rs. 100 till January 10. The application fees is Rs. 1,500. A copy of the application form need to reach the School of Distance Education by January 17. For details, contact 0494-2400288 orwww.uoc.ac.in. University authorities are planning to shift all those who privately register for various courses to the distance education mode once the UGC gives its approval.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/calicut-varsity-private-registration-from-dec-17/article33318455.ece
13 December 2020||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Arrangements in place for polling in Malappuram||Elaborate arrangements have been made for the three-tier local body elections to be held in Malappuram on Monday. With 33.54 lakh voters and 8,387 candidates seeking election to 94 grama panchayats, 12 municipalities, 15 block panchayats, and the district panchayat, Malappuram remains the biggest in the State by all means. As many as 3,975 polling stations have been set up in the district, and they will be manned by 19,875 officials. Around 31,000 officials are engaged in election duty at different levels. While 3,459 polling stations are in panchayats, 516 are in municipalities. The Election Commission has declared 100 polling stations as sensitive. Webcasting of the polling process will be done live from 56 polling stations, and video coverage will be arranged in the remaining 44. Distribution of polling equipment will be done from 8 a.m. on Sunday. Time slots have been allotted for officials to avoid crowding in view of COVID-19 scare. District Collector K. Gopalakrishnan requested officials and voters to maintain COVID-19 norms throughout the elections. He said 18,507 special votes were cast by those in isolation. Special votes will be permitted until 3 p.m. on Sunday. Those testing positive for SARS-CoV-2 and those entering quarantine after 3 p.m. on Sunday will be allowed to vote on Monday evening. They should reach their respective polling stations before 6 p.m. wearing personal protective equipment (PPE). ID cards Voters can use any of the following documents for identification: voter identity card issued by the Central Election Commission, passport, driving licence, PAN card, Aadhaar card, SSLC book with photo in it, bank passbook with photo issued six months before the election, and the State Election Commission’s identity card issued for the newly enrolled voters. District officials said voters should wear mask at the polling stations and should stay away from bringing children to polling booths. Hands should be sanitised before entering the polling station and after voting. People have been advised to carry a pen to sign in the polling register. Duty assignment The third phase of randomisation of election officials was completed on Saturday. There will be five officials for each polling station, including a presiding officer, a first polling officer, and two polling officers. As many as 19,875 polling officials will man 3,975 booths. Apart from them, 4,154 officials will be in reserve category. Officials can get to know details of their posting fromwww.edrop.gov.in, said an official statement. Information about their posting will also be sent through SMS. A special Poll Manager mobile application has been arranged for polling officials.  The Election Commission has declared 100 polling stations as sensitive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/arrangements-in-place-for-polling-in-malappuram/article33318460.ece
13 December 2020||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Kim Ki-duk remembered||Rasmi Film Society here on Saturday commemorated South Korean filmmaker Kim Ki-duk, who died on Friday following COVID-19 complications. Expressing grief over the death of the famous filmmaker, Rasmi president and poet Manambur Rajanbabu said that the film society was blessed to have screened many of Kim Ki-duk’s films at Malappuram. Rasmi secretary Anil K. Kurupan, V.M. Suresh Kumar, G.K. Rammohan, V.M. Manoj, and Haneef Rajaji spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kim-ki-duk-remembered/article33318461.ece
13 December 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Fall in poll percentage confuses parties||The final figures of polling for the three-tier local body body elections held on Thursday in Palakkad district stood at 78.14%. As many as 18.27 lakh out of the 23.37 lakh voters in the district polled their votes to elect their representatives to seven municipalities, 88 grama panchayats, 13 block panchayats, and the district panchayat. Panchayats witnessed heavier polling than municipalities. When 78.8% of the voters reached the polling stations in the panchayats, 73.5% polled their votes in the municipalities. Panchayats under the Chittur block recorded the heaviest polling (82.2%) when panchayats in the Malampuzha block saw the lowest (75.3%). The Chittur Thathamangalam municipality recorded the highest polling (81.5%) and the Palakkad municipality saw the lowest (67.2%). A fall in the percentage of votes in the Palakkad municipality has confused the main fronts contesting there. The Palakkad municipality had recorded 73.73% polling in the 2015 elections. The United Democratic Front and the Left Democratic Front are out to push the ruling BJP out of power in Palakkad, when the BJP has used all its resources to come back to power stronger than before. Palakkad was the only municipality under the BJP rule in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fall-in-poll-percentage-confuses-parties/article33318660.ece
13 December 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Attappady ryots to erect human wall||The Attappady Zone Farmer Protection Council will organise a human wall on Sunday afternoon at Attappady to protest against the Ecologically Sensitive Area (ESA) and Eco-Sensitive Zone (ESZ) notifications of the Union Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change. About 60,000 farmers are expected to attend the human wall that will stretch from Mukkali to Anakkatti on the Kerala-Tamil Nadu border in Attappady. Their fear The 37-km human wall would be formed at 3.30 p.m., said council president Sreelakshmi Sreekumar and secretary Johnson Vilangupara. They said that they had no way but to protest against ESA and ESZ notifications, as they would virtually convert Attappady into a forest. Tribal areas Farmers from Agali, Sholayur and Pudur panchayats of Attappady would join the protest irrespective of their political affiliations, they said. They said that the farmers would be forced to evacuate their land if the ESA and ESZ notifications came into force. Fifty children from the Adivasi hamlets of Attappady would inaugurate the human wall by taking a pledge to protect their rights. The organisers said that political leaders of Palakkad would also join the protest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/attappady-to-erect-a-human-wall/article33318561.ece
13 December 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||436 people test positive in Palakkad||As many as 436 people tested positive for COVID-19 in Palakkad district on Saturday. When 208 of them contracted the virus through interaction with infected persons, the source of infection among those found positive could not be traced in 216 cases. Among the new cases reported on Saturday were four health workers and eight persons who came from across the borders. Health officials in the district said that 285 people recovered from the disease in Palakkad on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/436-people-test-positive-in-palakkad/article33318662.ece
13 December 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Drama workshop for kids||The Navrang Palakkad will organize a two-week drama workshop for children in association with the Kendra Sangeet Natak Akademi here from December 20. Navrang director Kannan Palakkad said that 20 children could attend the workshop to be held at Tharekkad. Contact 92497 85558.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/drama-workshop-for-kids/article33318663.ece
13 December 2020||Thiruvananathapuram,KERALA||NFHS throws up a mixed bag for State||The latest National Family Health Survey (NFHS-5 2019-20), conducted under the aegis of the Union Ministry for Health and Family Welfare, has thrown up a mixed bag for the State. Kerala’s infant/neonatal and under-5 mortality rates are all impressive single digits with improvement over the previous NFHS (2015-16) figures. But, the sheer drop in universal immunisation figures and nutritional parameters — an increase in anaemia across all age groups, increase in wasting and stunting in children under five years — calls for urgent measures to prevent chronic malnutrition in the State’s children. The State’s Infant Mortality Rate, according to the latest data, is 4.4 (5.6 in NFHS-4 in 2015-16), Neonatal Mortality Rate is 3.4 (4.4), and Under-5 mortality rate is 5.2 (7.1). While the figures do not match the last Sample Resource Survey (SRS 2018) data, which are considered more reliable (SRS puts IMR at 7, NMR at 5, and U5MR at 10), senior health officials point out that the NFHS figures are not far off as these parameters are indeed dropping in the State. The proportion of fully vaccinated children of 12-23 months in Kerala, based on information from the vaccination card, has dropped from 88.3 % to 85.2%, putting the State far behind other States in the 11th position. Health officials claim that two major floods in consequent years is one major factor which affected all outreach immunisation activities. Early initiation of breast feeding and exclusive breast feeding up to six months have improved marginally but the percentage of children under five years who are stunted (height for age) has gone up from 19.7 in NFHS-4 to 23.4 now; wasting (weight for height) has gone up by one point to 15.8 %; children under five years who are underweight has gone up from 16.1 % to 19.7%. Interestingly, the percentage of children under five who are overweight has also gone up from 3.4 % to 4 %. Anaemia across all age groups has increased, while anaemia in pregnant women has gone up from 22.6% to 31.4%. The State has near 100% institutional deliveries at 99.8%. However, the percentage of mothers who had at least four antenatal care visits to hospitals dropped from 90.1% to 78.6% 13,000 households In general, NFHS-5, which covered 13,000 households in the State, indicates that Kerala’s performance has gone down in all parameters, wherein field-level activities have been the key to achieving good results . However, all those parameters where in health system infrastructure improvement and institutional care are the key – such as infant and neonatal mortality rate – the State has shown improvement. Though the State claims to have improved access to primary care services, the indicators in the survey do not reflect this.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nfhs-throws-up-a-mixed-bag-for-state/article33318497.ece
13 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||New water plant by month end||If things pan out, the new 75-million litres per day (mld) water treatment plant at Aruvikkara, billed as the solution to the capital city’s drinking water issues, should be ready for commissioning by the end of this month. The Kerala Water Authority (KWA) on Saturday launched the first of two inter-connection works linking the new plant to pipelines carrying water from the existing water treatment plants to the capital city. This forms part of the final-phase work on the plant. Power connection Construction of the plant has been completed, except for power connection which has to be provided by the Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB), a senior KWA official said. The government-run water utility hopes to commission the project by December-end, the official said. The water treated at the new facility will be transmitted to the city through existing transmission mains On Saturday, the KWA carried out interconnection works for linking the new plant to the pipeline carrying water from the existing 74 mld plant at Aruvikkara to Thirumala in the city. The 74 mld plant was temporarily shut down for the work. Similarly, the second interconnection work would link the new plant to the pipeline carrying water from the 86 mld plant at Aruvikkara to Peroorkada. This work would be taken up in the coming weeks, according to KWA officials. The shutdown of the 74-mld plants had disrupted water supply to many city areas. Pumping from the 74-mld plant was expected to be restarted by Saturday night. Constructed at a cost of Rs. 56.29 crore, the new 75-mld plant at Aruvikkara, once commissioned, would complement the existing 72-mld, 86-mld and the 74-mld water treatment facilities in Aruvikkara. Built by Chicago Constructions International Pvt Ltd, the plant is funded under the Centrally sponsored Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT) for improving the water supply in Thiruvananthapuram city. Delayed The plant was originally scheduled for commissioning in March this year, but the COVID-19 outbreak and the consequent lockdown had delayed the works. The 75-mld plant, along with the proposed 120-mld Neyyar water supply project is expected to provide a lasting solution to the water scarcity problems of the capital city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-75-mld-water-plant-to-be-commissioned-soon/article33318555.ece
13 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||373 new cases in capital||The district reported 373 COVID-19 cases on Sunday when 4,579 people were subjected to tests during the last 24 hours. While 529 people recovered from the illness, the number of active cases continue to fall as it reached 3,298. Among the fresh cases, the sources of infection were unknown in 92 instances. Eight people who came to the State from other places are among those who were diagnosed with the disease. Four health workers also tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. The pandemic has so far claimed 560 lives in the district. Two recent deaths were attributed to the disease on the day. These included a 75-year-old woman who hailed from Azhikode and a 57-year-old man who hailed from Karamana. The district administration placed 1,383 people under quarantine on the day, taking the total number of people being monitored for COVID-19 symptoms to 27,577 in houses and 109 in various institutions. The Thiruvananthapuram City police initiated legal action against 73 people who violated COVID-19 norms. As many as 32 people among them were booked under provisions of the Kerala Epidemic Diseases Ordinance 2020. A cumulative fine of Rs. 17000 was imposed on the violators. In State The police registered cases against 575 people for violating the COVID-19 protocol in the State on Saturday. While 213 people were arrested, 12 vehicles were seized. Action was also initiated against 1,899 people who failed to wear masks outdoors. Three people were also booked for violating quarantine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/373-new-cases-in-capital/article33318696.ece
13 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||5,949 new cases, 5,268 recoveries in State||Kerala reported 5,949 new cases of COVID-19 on Saturday when 59,690 samples were tested in the past 24 hours, taking the State’s cumulative caseload to 6,64,632 cases. There is no let-up in test positivity rate and it went up slightly to touch 9.97 % . With 5,268 patients reported to have recovered from their disease on Saturday, the active case pool in the State now stands at 60,029. So far, 6,01,861 persons are reported to have recovered from COVID-19 in the State. The addition of another 32 deaths which occurred in the State over the past few days to the official death list by the Health Department pushed up the State’s cumulative COVID toll to 2,594. Ernakulam accounted for seven of these deaths, Kannur five, Malappuram and Thrissur four each, Wayanad three, Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, and Kottayam two each, while Pathanamthitta, Alappuzha, and Palakkad reported one death each. Of the 5,949 new cases reported on Saturday, 5,866 are locally acquired infections, while in 83 cases, the department has reported a history of travel outside the State. Amongst the locally acquired infections, 47 are infections contracted by health-care workers, while in 646 cases, an epidemiological link to the infection could not be established. Minister’s warning Health Minister K.K. Shylaja has warned of a spike in COVID-19 after the local body elections. Speaking to reporters in Kasaragod on Saturday, she said an increased disease count means higher mortality and, hence, hospitals, health workers and the police had been put on alert.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/5949-new-cases-5268-recoveries-in-state/article33318573.ece
13 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Cut State school syllabus: Leader of the Opposition||Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala has demanded that the syllabus in State schools be reduced on the lines of that done by CBSE and ICSE boards in the wake of practical difficulties in learning owing to COVID-19. In a letter to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, Mr. Chennithala sought that the syllabus be trimmed urgently, especially for Class X and XII students. Hard time In a statement here on Saturday, Mr. Chennithala pointed out in the letter that the education sector and students were facing a hard time owing to the pandemic. There were only a few months to go before the end of the academic year. Keeping in mind the current uncertainty in the education sector, the Union government had cut the syllabus of CBSE/ICSE boards, but the State government was yet to take any action. Changes in syllabus It is learnt that the government did not intend to make any changes in the current syllabus. Students and teachers, though, were worried about how the entire syllabus would be completed. The classes telecast on Victers channel had certain limitations. There were complaints that many students could not understand fully what was being taught. There were also concerns about how students with varying academic abilities and backgrounds could grasp the current syllabus solely on the basis of the online classes and how they would express their abilities in the examinations. Conducting examinations without a cut in the portions to be studied would put students under immense mental stress. Other States too had reduced their syllabus in the wake of COVID-19. Immediate steps In such a situation, the government should take immediate steps to trim the syllabus for State school students, particularly those in Classes X and XII, Mr. Chennithala said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cut-state-school-syllabus-chennithala/article33318552.ece
13 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Pinarayi defends private secretary||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Saturday exuded confidence that the Enforcement Directorate (ED) had no evidence to incriminate his additional private secretary and close confidant C.M. Raveendran. Mr. Vijayan said certain political rivals in the Onchiyam locality in Kannur district had sent a set of fake petitions to the ED against Mr. Raveendran. Subsequently, they inspected several premises in the neighbourhood, believing they were benami properties acquired illegally by Mr. Raveendran. The officers found no evidence to think so. Mr. Raveendran, who was laid low by post-COVID-19 complications, would respond to the ED’s summons soon. Mr. Vijayan scoffed at the allegation of Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president Mullappally Ramachandran that the Chief Minister had sought the help of an astrologer and soothsayer in North Kerala to persuade the Central government against investigating him and his office. Mr. Vijayan said Mr. Ramachandran should be mindful of the stature of the political office he held. Mr. Ramachandran's utterances were often unbecoming of a KPCC president. “He should strike a more mature view of politics,” he said. Mr. Ramachandran had also accused the government of using the State Police Chief (SPC) as an envoy to sabotage the UAE gold smuggling case. He said the SPC had held secret talks with the Commissioner, Customs Preventive, in Kochi recently in a bid to save the government from scrutiny.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pinarayi-defends-private-secretary/article33318574.ece
13 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Leak plugged at Marappalam||The Kerala Water Authority (KWA) on Saturday plugged the leak on a distribution main at Marappalam, providing a solution to the water shortage experienced in the Pattom region over the past one week. The leak was detected on the 400 mm MS (mild steel) pipeline carrying water from the KWA tank at Peroorkada to Pattom and Medical College regions, a KWA official said. Although the water shortage had persisted for the past one week, the leakage on the underground pipeline could not be detected initially. Later, a detailed examination revealed that the water was being lost near the bridge at Marappalam. Work on plugging the leak was undertaken on Saturday. V. K Prasanth, MLA, visited Marappalam and reviewed the progress of work. The Pattom region had been experiencing water shortage over the past one week. The problem has been addressed with the KWA pinpointing the leak and plugging it, Mr. Prasanth said in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/leak-plugged-at-marappalam/article33318693.ece
13 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Railways to run 5 daily specials||To restore normalcy in the railway network and to encourage daily commuters to travel to workplaces, Railways have decided to introduce five pairs of fully reserved special trains in the State. Train 06304 Thiruvananthapuram Central-Ernakulam Junction Special will leave Thiruvananthapuram Central daily at 5.45 p.m. with effect from December 14 and reach Ernakulam Junction at 11.10 p.m. In the return direction, 06303 Ernakulam Junction- Thiruvananthapuram Central Special will leave Ernakulam Junction daily at 5.05 a.m. from December 16 to reach Thiruvananthapuram Central at 10.20 a.m. Ernakulam-Kannur Train 06305 Ernakulam Junction-Kannur Special will leave Ernakulam Junction daily at 6 a.m. from December 15 to reach Kannur at 11.45 a.m. and 06306 Kannur-Ernakulam Junction Special will leave Kannur daily at 2.50 p.m. from December 15 to reach Ernakulam Junction at 9.10 a.m. the same day. Mangaluru Train 06347 Thiruvananthapuram Central-Mangaluru Central Special will leave Thiruvananthapuram Central daily at 8.50 p.m. from December 16 to reach Mangaluru Central at 11.35 a.m. the next day and 06348 Mangaluru Central-Thiruvananthapuram Special will leave Mangaluru Central daily at 2.20 p.m. from December 19 to reach Thiruvananthapuram Central at 4.40 a.m. the next day. Capital to Madurai Train 06343 Thiruvananthapuram Central-Madurai Jn. Special will leave Thiruvananthapuram Central daily at 8.30 p.m. from December 23 to reach Madurai Junction at 10.10 a.m. the next day and 06344 Madurai Junction- Thiruvananthapuram Central Special will leave Madurai Junction daily at 4.05 p.m. with effect from December 24 to reach Thiruvananthapuram Central at 5.20 a.m. the next day. Guruvayur Train 06342 Thiruvananthapuram Central-Guruvayur Special will leave Thiruvananthapuram Central daily at 5.30 p.m. with effect from December 15 to reach Guruvayur at 12.25 a.m. the next day and 06341 Guruvayur-Thiruvananthapuram Special will leave Guruvayur daily at 3.25 a.m. with effect from December 16 to reach Thiruvananthapuram at 10.10 a.m the same day, according to a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/railways-to-run-5-specials/article33318481.ece
13 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||State receives Rs. 81.5 crore under Central package||Kerala has received Rs. 81.5 crore under the Centre’s Aatmanirbhar Bharat package. The amount released is the first tranche of the Rs. 163 crore sanctioned for the State under the scheme for “Special assistance to States for capital expenditure.” The scheme is aimed at boosting capital expenditure by the State governments that are facing difficult financial environment due to the shortfall in tax revenue arising from the COVID-19 situation. The capital expenditure projects have been approved in diverse sectors such as health, rural development, water supply, irrigation, power, transport, education, urban development. Part–I of the scheme covers the north-eastern region. Part-II is for all other States. Part-III of the scheme is aimed at pushing various citizen-centric reforms in the States. This amount will be available only to those States which carry out at least three out of the four reforms specified by the Ministry of Finance on the reform-linked additional borrowing permissions. One Nation, One Ration Card, ease of doing business, urban local body/ utility reform and power sector reforms are the four reforms. Kerala is among the nine States that have successfully completed reforms in the Public Distribution System (PDS) and have rolled out the One Nation, One Ration Card system, thereby qualifying to borrow Rs. 2,261 crore from the Centre’s reform-linked borrowing of Rs. 23,523 crore. The initiative ensures that beneficiaries under the National Food Security Act and other welfare schemes, especially migrant workers and their families, get ration from any fair price shop across the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-receives-rs-815-crore-under-central-package/article33318570.ece
13 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||SEC calls for proper control of crowds||The State Election Commission (SEC) has directed the police to ensure proper crowd control during the campaign for the local body elections in north Kerala districts. The direction was issued on Saturday after noticing large groups of people taking part in the campaigns disregarding COVID-19 disease containment protocols, the commission said. The commission also made it clear that it had not directed polling officials and polling agents to undergo COVID-19 tests. The commission directed polling officials to ensure that voters were using masks and sanitiser in the polling booth.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sec-calls-for-proper-control-of-crowds/article33318576.ece
13 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Differently abled day observed||Differently abled students inaugurated each day’s programmes organised by the Thiruvananthapuram South urban resource centre of the Samagra Shiksha, Kerala, as part of the week-long celebrations to mark International Day of the Differently Abled. The observance, from December 2 to 10, saw a number of programmes being held online in the wake of the pandemic. Children’s artistic performances, easy cooking, academic and creative activities, sharing of experiences, and interviews were held. Students who took part in a demonstration of artistic abilities at the urban resource centre level on December 3 and performed well took part in the district level event too. Prominent people from various walks of life such as arts, literature, and media took part in the programmes as guests. All participants were given certificates and trophies. Hundred of financially backward students were presented with gift kits comprising study material and Christmas cakes. It was inaugurated by poet and teacher Sumesh Krishna at the house of Shamamol, who receives home-based education from Samagra resource teachers. Samagra Shiksha district project officer N. Retnakumar and district programme officers B. Sreekumaran and Resmi T.L. were present at the programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/differently-abled-day-observed/article33318690.ece
13 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||New farm laws regressive: CPI(M)||CPI(M) politburo member and All India Kisan Sabha vice president S. Ramachandran Pillai on Saturday underscored the need to support and intensify the ongoing farmer protests in Delhi against the contentious farm laws introduced by the Centre. “If the BJP attempts to fight the agitation politically, it will be the beginning of the end of BJP rule. The BJP should correct its policies,” Mr. Pillai said, inaugurating an indefinite agitation organised by the Samyuktha Karshaka Samiti at the Martyrs’ Column, Palayam, demanding the withdrawal of the laws. Mr. Pillai called upon all sections of society to stand united against the flawed policies of the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance government. All three laws are aimed at surrendering the agriculture sector and agricultural production to corporates. Farmers would be enslaved to corporate interests, he said. Only in rare instances since Independence has the nation witnessed agitations of such a large scale as that of the ongoing farmers’ stir which has entered 17th day on Saturday, he said. “For the majority of the farmers, farming has become an unprofitable enterprise. Agricultural costs have shot up, but there has been no corresponding increase in agriculture incomes, courtesy the pro-corporate policies of the Centre,” he said. The BJP government introduced the “regressive” farm laws by violating Constitutional provisions and Parliamentary procedures. They were not debated in Parliament and the MPs who demanded a debate were suspended, he said. “Kerala, on the other hand, is demonstrating an alternative to the Central policies. The Left Democratic Front government has made it clear that the three laws will not be implemented here,” he said. Mr. Pillai urged the Centre to introduce the minimum support price (MSP) of 50% more than the weighted average cost of production as recommended by the M.S. Swaminathan Committee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/centres-new-farm-laws-regressive-says-cpim/article33318500.ece
13 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Nutrition clinics to benefit women, children||Nutrition clinics have been opened across the State to improve the nutrition levels of women and children. The clinics have been launched by the Women and Child Development Department as part of the Sampushta Keralam project. The clinics will function in ICDS (Integrated Child Development Services) offices in all 152 blocks and six Corporations in the State. The nutrition clinics have made available the services of one nutritionist or dietician twice a week from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. The clinics will focus on the health of anganwadi beneficiaries such as women, children, and adolescent girls initially and at a later stage extend services to the public.  Besides improving children’s health, the clinics will also help prevent diseases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nutrition-clinics-to-benefit-women-children/article33318689.ece
13 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||DCC alleges foul play in special postal ballots||The Thiruvananthapuram District Congress Committee (DCC) has alleged foul play in the handling of special postal ballots issued to COVID-19 positive and quarantined electors for the December 8 local body polls in the district. DCC president Neyyatinkara Sanal has lodged complaints with the State Election Commission and the District Collector, who is also the District Election Officer, in this regard. ‘Ballots manipulated’ According to the complaint, the ballots were manipulated with the help of officials close to the Left government in the State. On Friday, BJP district president V. V. Rajesh had alleged widespread irregularities in the collection of postal ballots issued to special voters in the district. In a statement, Mr. Sanal alleged that foul play has occurred in the ballots issued to electors in the three-tier panchayats in the district. In many instances, the ballots were deliberately issued to the special voters in the wrong covers. Many electors were not issued the declaration forms along with the ballots, Mr. Sanal said, alleging a Left conspiracy to deny electors the democratic right of exercising their franchise. Mr. Sanal demanded that the State Election Commission urgently initiate action against erring officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/foul-play-alleged-in-special-postal-ballots/article33318554.ece
13 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Man held for attack, rape attempt||The Vizhinjam police have arrested a 53-year old man for allegedly attacking a woman and attempting to rape her. The accused was identified as Sajikumar of Payattuvila in Kottukal. He has been accused of manhandling the victim and attempting to sexually harass her after barging into her house in the same locality. The accused apparently wanted to wreak vengeance on the victim for having complained against him earlier for abusing her under the influence of alcohol. Despite his efforts to abscond, the police apprehended him and later produced him at a local court where he was remanded to judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-held-for-attack-rape-attempt/article33318691.ece
13 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||One killed as van, pickup collide||One person was killed and nine others were injured in a collision between a van and a pickup near Venjaramoodu on Saturday evening. The Venjaramoodu police identified the deceased as Vijin, 22, of Thandrampoyka, Venjaramoodu. Vijin was travelling in the pickup. The accident occurred around 4.15 p.m. at Udimoodu near Venjaramoodu. The occupants of the van were returning to Malappuram after attending a wedding at Kazhakootam, the police said. The injured are undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Venjaramoodu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/one-killed-as-van-pickup-collide/article33318695.ece
13 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Man held for assaulting wife||The Vattiyurkavu police on Sunday arrested a 41-year old man for allegedly assaulting his wife and setting their house ablaze in a fit of rage few days ago. The police identified the accused as Binto of Nettayam in Kachani. The accused, a chronic alcoholic, has been accused of attacking his wife after she ordered him to abstain from consuming liquor and creating a ruckus in their house. After setting the house on fire, he fled from the area. The woman with the help of her neighbours and the fire force managed to douse the fire, but not before their certificates and other valuables were destroyed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-arrested-for-assaulting-wife/article33318553.ece
13 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KILA facilities misused for polls: KPCC||KPCC secretary John Venatius has sought an investigation by the State Election Commission into the misuse of facilities of the Kerala Institute of Local Administration (KILA) for election campaign. Mr. Venatius said he had lodged a complaint in this regard with the Commission on December 5, but no action was forthcoming. In a December 8 letter to the Commission, he said that he had enclosed visual evidence of the misuse of KILA facilities along with his initial complaint. The Commission should urgently carry out an investigation into the misuse of government facilities for the election campaigns and take action, Mr. Venatius said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kila-facilities-misused-for-polls-kpcc/article33318556.ece
13 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||No pressure on students: KITE||Rescheduling of the First Bell digital classes with telecast of more sessions for Classes 10 and 12 students (Plus Two) who appear for public examinations has been done without burdening students excessively, a statement from KITE (Kerala Infrastructure and Technology for Education) on Saturday said. The First Bell lessons for Class 10 would be wound up by January, the time scheduled for completion of their portions. In fact, classes for half the subjects would be over by the first week of January. Some more time could be needed for science subjects for Class 12 students. The maximum of two-and-a-half hours of classes a day for a student could be stretched to three hours on rare days. Besides retelecast, the classes are available on the portalfirstbell.kite.kerala.gov.infor viewing at a convenient time later.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-pressure-on-students-kite/article33318498.ece
13 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KU conducts induction programme||The University of Kerala organised a three-tier induction programme for its newly admitted students in the 2020 batch. Induction was held at the university, school and department levels. Over 600 students have been admitted to the 43 teaching departments representing various disciplines in science, social sciences, arts, humanities and commerce. C. Vijayan, Professor of Physics, IIT Madras, formally inaugurated the programme on Saturday. Delivering his lecture, he stressed on the need to dwell deep into nature and draw inspiration from understanding nature in order to make learning holistic. P. Balaram, former Director of Indian Institute of Science, Bengaluru, delivered the second induction lecture ‘Science and Nature’ on Sunday. Connect with nature He spoke on how different scientific disciplines were connected and possessed a deep connect with nature. He illustrated the association between cultural evolution and biological evolution and also traced the evolution of life from unicellular organisms to the present human race. Poet V. Madhusoodanan Nair, who delivered the final induction lecture later in the day, exhorted the students to appreciate their mother tongues to understand their own identity. “Every language should be revered. Only by learning languages could one become familiar with people and culture. Learning is not merely a process of reproducing information acquired by someone, but also a continuous process to find new paths in various human domains,” he said. Vice Chancellor V.P. Mahadevan Pillai chaired the concluding session. Pro-Vice Chancellor P.P. Ajayakumar, Registrar C.R. Prasad, Research Director R.B. Binojkumar, Internal Quality Assurance Cell (IQAC) Joint Director E. Shaji and Head of the Malayalam Department S. Shifa also spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/university-conducts-induction-programme/article33318548.ece
13 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Withdraw farm laws: Sudheeran||Former KPCC president V. M. Sudheeran on Saturday demanded the Centre to immediately withdraw the contentious farm laws. He was speaking at a candlelight vigil organised by the INTUC in front of the Accountant General's Office here, expressing solidarity with the ongoing farmers' protests.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/withdraw-farm-laws-sudheeran/article33318694.ece
13 December 2020||December 13 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||528 cases, 570 recoveries in Thrissur||There are 528 COVID-19 cases in Thrissur district on Saturday while 570 people recovered from the disease. There are 5,778 active cases in the district and 139 people from Thrissur are undergoing treatment in hospitals in various other districts. So far 65,187 COVID-19 cases have been reported in the district and 58,928 people recovered from the disease. According to official statistics, 520 people, including four health workers, contracted the disease through local contact on Saturday. Of them, 46 patients are above the age of 60 and 36 children are below the age of 10. In all 3,790 patients are under home observation and 178 people were admitted to hospitals for treatment of COVID-19. In all, 5,789 samples were collected for the test on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/528-cases-570-recoveries-in-thrissur/article33318656.ece
13 December 2020||December 13 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Celebrating a leader||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/celebrating-a-leader/article33318558.ece
13 December 2020||December 13 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||No let-up in caution||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-let-up-in-caution/article33318560.ece
13 December 2020||December 13 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Back to life||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/back-to-life/article33318551.ece
13 December 2020||December 13 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||No let-up in caution||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-let-up-in-caution/article33318697.ece
13 December 2020||December 13 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Welcome drink||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/welcome-drink/article33318700.ece
13 December 2020||December 13 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||No let-up in caution||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-let-up-in-caution/article33318701.ece
13 December 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Left parties block NH-44 at Marur, Gooty toll plazas||Communist parties and activists of A.P. Rythu Sangham jointly organised a road blockade at two toll plazas, at Kasepalli near Gooty and Marur near Anantapur, on the National Highway No.44 in the district on Saturday noon for about an hour in support of the Chalo Delhi agitation of Punjab and Haryana farmers. Led by CPI(M) district secretary V. Rambhupal and CPI district secretary D. Jagadeesh, farmers raised slogans demanding immediate withdrawal of the three farm laws and making the announcement of Minimum Support Price for all agricultural produce a compulsory exercise. “The agricultural market yards must continue, so must the cold storages and warehouses being run by the government agencies and not be handed over to any corporate entity,” Mr. Rambhupal said. At the Marur toll plaza, CITU State committee member Obulu and other leaders sat across the road and did not allow the collection of toll fares through Fastag or in cash for a long time. The police tried to move the agitators out of the toll plaza, but the leaders of the Left parties stayed put there in support of the agitating farmers. Funds collected They also demanded that the toll fee not be collected from vehicles carrying agricultural produce. At Penukonda, CPI(M) Hindupur district secretary M. Intiyaz began the party programme of collection of funds for supporting the farmers’ agitation in Delhi and went around the town collecting donations from general public. “We collected Rs. 3,396 on day one and sent it to the centralised fund and would continue the programme for 16 days,” Mr. Intiyaz added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/left-parties-block-nh-44-at-marur-gooty-toll-plazas/article33318637.ece
13 December 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Begin HNSS canal widening project: CPI||The Communist Party of India (CPI) has demanded immediate administrative sanction for the Rs. 6,000-crore Hundri-Neeva Sujala Sravanthi canal widening project hanging fire for the past one year, and completion of the distributary network to carry Krishna water to agricultural fields. At a press conference here on Saturday, the party district secretary D. Jagadeesh questioned the rationale behind taking up three reservoirs under the Upper Penna Project ahead of widening of the HNSS Canal from Malyala to Jeedipalli Reservoir. “Where is the water and resource to fill the three reservoirs at Devarakonda, Thopdurthi and Muittala, without increasing the intake and carrying capacity of the HNSS Canal to 6,000 cusecs or 10,000 from the current 3,400 cusecs?” he asked the State government. “More than Rs. 500 crore will be needed for land acquisition for the three reservoirs, about which there is no mention in the DPR or the project and this cost has not been included in the 2018 estimate of Rs. 803 cr.,” he said. About 7 tmcft of water was essential to fill all these reservoirs, but there was no assured water allocation for that, he alleged. Mr. Jagadeesh objected to the renaming of the Upper Penna project as YSR Project, stating it was the Communist Party leaders of the district who had fought for it since 1944 and got it implemented about half a century ago.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/begin-hnss-canal-widening-cpi/article33318135.ece
13 December 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Buddhist monks take part in social service activities||Buddhist monks from Meerut in Uttar Pradesh visited the Buddha Vihar Project in the city and participated in the social service activities carried out by the project committee on Saturday. The monks, who were here as part of their all-India tour for ‘Baudha Dhyana Prabhodha Prachar’, handed over saris to poor women and garlanded the idol of the Lord Buddha in the Buddha Vihar. The founder president of the committee, Dasannagari Krishnamurthy, said that they had been making all-out efforts to make the project successful and propagate the message of Buddhism in society.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/buddhist-monks-take-part-in-social-service-activities/article33318635.ece
13 December 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Chalo Tamballapalle’ foiled||TDP leaders across the district were placed under house arrest by the police on Saturday and prevented from going ahead with the ‘chalo Tamballapalle’ programme. The TDP programme was to condemn the YSRCP’s attack on them at Angallu village on Friday in which five party workers were injured. TDP leaders N. Amarnatha Reddy, party’s Chittoor parliamentary constituency in-charge Pulivarthi Nani and MLC B.N. Rajasimhulu were placed under under house arrest at Palamaner and Chittoor. Similarly, leaders such as Nallari Kishore Kumar Reddy, Dommalapati Ramesh and Shankar Yadav were confined to their houses at Madanapalle. In Tirupati, former MLA Sugunamma and other senior leaders too were placed under house arrest. ‘Vindictive politics’ Deputy SP (Madanapalle) A. Ravi Manohar Achari said the preventive custody of the TDP cadres was to ensure law and order and maintain peace in the rural areas. Addressing the media latar at Palamaner, Mr. Amarnatha Reddy alleged that the YSRCP government was resorting to vindictive politics, and it would have to pay a heavy price for its “unprovoked attacks.” “It is unfortunate that the police are hand-in-glove with the YSRCP cadres and are filing cases against the victims instead of the attackers,” he said. Meanwhile, police forces were deployed at several politically-sensitive areas in the district to prevent possible political clashes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/chalo-tamballapalle-foiled/article33318642.ece
13 December 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||49 red sanders logs seized, T.N. operative nabbed||The AP State red sanders anti-smuggling task force (APSRSASTF) in the early hours of Saturday seized 49 red sanders logs and nabbed a smuggling operative from Tamil Nadu, atop a hillock close to Srivari Mettu locality, 20 km from Tirupati. According to the task force officials, a combing party was moving atop the hillock for a couple of days following information that scores of operatives had entered the Seshachalam hills to fell the red sanders trees. Around 1.30 a.m. (Saturday), the task force party located the movement of about 50 operatives climbing down the hill carrying the logs. Marching forward, the combing party tried to capture the trespassers but could nab only one identified as Chandran (20) of Melmaravattur in Tiruvannamalai district of Tamil Nadu while all others had disappeared into the forest under the cover of darkness. The task force officials on Saturday morning deployed additional forces to carry on the combing activity. The seized logs were brought down to the task force office. The accused was produced before the local court and remanded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/49-red-sanders-logs-seized-tn-operative-nabbed/article33318137.ece
13 December 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Seema development will be BJP’s poll plank in 2024: Somu||The BJP will go to the polls in the State in 2024 with development of Rayalaseema as the main plank, party State president Somu Veerraju has said. Addressing the party State executive meeting in Tirupati on Saturday, Mr. Veerraju said the YSRCP government was indulging in “unproductive talk on the Polavaram and three capitals issue.” “People are being looted in the guise of new sand and excise policies. Smuggling of red sanders is going on unabated,” he alleged. The BJP would expose the corrupt, casteist and family politics in the State, he said. Farm Acts It was because of the BJP’s opposition that the government backtracked from diverting Rs. 5,000 crore TTD funds to the State exchequer, he said. Former Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Raman Singh asked the the cadres to actively educate the farmers about the benefits of the new farm Acts. He accused the Congress of deliberately spreading falsehood on the issue. The NDA government was being wrongly criticised on the railway zone, Polavaram and Special Category Status issues, he said. Union Minster and State BJP in-charge Muralidhar expressed the confidence that the party would prove its strength in the ensuing byelection to the Tirupati Lok Sabha seat. BJP Rajya Sabha members G.V.L. Narasimha Rao, C.M. Ramesh, T.G. Venkatesh and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/seema-development-will-be-bjps-poll-plank-in-2024-somu/article33318640.ece
13 December 2020||ELURU,ANDHRA PRADESH||No pesticides or chemicals in fish samples, say reports||The fish samples collected from different places in Eluru and neighbouring villages are free from chemicals and pesticide residues. Scientists of various State and Central organisations, investigating into the reasons for the outbreak of the unknown disease, collected fish samples and sent them to the State Institute of Fisheries Technology (SIFT) laboratory. “We collected fish samples from the nearby tanks and canals and sent them to the SIFT for analysis, which confirmed that the samples were free from pesticides or any type of chemicals,” said West Godavari Joint Collector Himanshu Shukla. Already, the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) and the Indian Institute of Chemical Technology (IICT), which tested the water samples, said that water was not contaminated in the affected areas. The National Institute of Nutrition (NIN) officials are further examining the water samples in their laboratory, Mr. Shukla said. Venkaiah briefed “Results related to rice, meat, chicken and soil collected from Eluru town and the surrounding areas are under analysis,” said the Joint Collector. The Central teams, which visited Eluru and the neighbouring villages, met Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu in New Delhi on Saturday and submitted a preliminary report on their findings. Central Health Secretary Rajesh Bhusan and other officials explained the health condition of the patients and the situation in West Godavari district. Doctors said that a final report would be submitted on the reasons for the neurotoxicity symptoms, which affected more than 600 persons in the district. Minister’s visit Mr. Naidu, who responded immediately and alerted the Union Health Minister and the officials of various Central institutes on the outbreak of the illness, directed the scientists to monitor the situation from time to time and assist the State government in preventing such incidents.  Health Minister Alla Kali Krishna Srinivas visited the patients who were discharged from Eluru Government General Hospital at their houses and enquired about their health condition on Saturday. The Minister, along with the Joint Collector, District Medical and Health Officer Sunanda, Municipal Commissioner Chandrashekar, RDO Panabaka Rachana, visited the affected areas and advised the patients to take medicines, good diet and rest. District Coordinator of Hospital Services A.V.R. Mohan said the cases had come down in Eluru and two cases had been reported in the last one day. “Six patients are undergoing treatment in Vijayawada GGH and two are admitted in Eluru GGH, and their condition is stable,” Dr. Mohan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/fish-samples-free-from-chemicals-pesticides-reports/article33318127.ece
13 December 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||9,899 milk cooperative societies will be formed, says Minister||Animal Husbandry, Dairy Development and Fisheries Minister S. Appala Raju on Saturday said that as many as 9,899 milk cooperative societies would be formed with women as part of the Andhra Pradesh-Amul project aimed at increasing the milk production and marketing in the State. Accompanied by Rajamahendravaram Member of Parliament M. Bharat, Mr. Appala Raju on Saturday inaugurated the district-level medical camp for cattle at Komaripalem village in Bikkavolu mandal in East Godavari district, where he laid a foundation stone for the building of Sri Lakshmi Primary Agriculture Cooperative Society. Disease mapping “As much as Rs. 3,200 crore fund has been earmarked to give a fillip to the dairy sector in the State as part of the Andhra Pradesh-Amul project. The disease mapping of the cows and buffaloes will also be done to monitor the cattle population through the Secretariats. The Amul project will guarantee the remunerative price for milk,” said Mr. Appala Raju during the programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/9899-milk-cooperative-societies-will-be-formed-minister/article33318638.ece
13 December 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bank assistant held for stealing cash, gold||An office assistant of Canara Bank branch at Kothapeta town in East Godavari district was arrested on charges of stealing cash and gold from the branch. B. Thulasi Suresh, 24, allegedly stole Rs. 9.23 lakh in cash and 322 grams of gold from the branch on December 7 during lunch break.  College drop-out East Godavari Superintendent of Police Adnan Nayeem Asmi told a press conference that the accused switched off the CC camera surveillance system installed inside the bank before committing the theft and later absconded. Suresh reportedly bought a two-wheeler, cellphone and gold ornaments with the stolen cash. He also toured many places in the State. The accused was a college drop-out and joined the bank as an Office Assistant in 2018. Investigation on Suresh was nabbed from a hotel in Amalapuram on Saturday. The police recovered Rs. 7.9 lakh cash, 322 grams of gold, two-wheeler and cellphone from him. A case has been registered and investigation is on, said Mr. Nayeem.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bank-assistant-held-for-stealing-cash-gold/article33318677.ece
13 December 2020||MACHILIPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||800 youth offered jobs under ‘Parivarthana’||About 800 youth were provided jobs in various companies across the State under ‘Parivarthana’ programme held in the town on Saturday. Transport Minister Perni Venkataramaiah, Collector A. Md. Imtiaz, Superintendent of Police M. Ravindranath Babu, AP State Skill Development Corporation Executive Director Hanuman Naik and Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) ex-officio Additional Director Vakul Jindal handed over the appointment orders to the selected candidates. Selections The programme was jointly organised by the Police and the AP State Skill Development Corporation (APSSDC), said Mr. Ravindranath Babu, adding that 700 more youth would be provided jobs in the second phase of selections. Recruitment drive Representatives and HR personnel from Varun Motors, Hetero Drugs and other companies participated in the recruitment drive, said Mr. Jindal. “Parivarthana is aimed at weaning away families from manufacturing arrack, and providing jobs to educated youth among them. Many youth with SSC to PG and professional qualifications attended interviews and secured jobs today,” said the SP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/800-youth-offered-jobs-under-parivarthana/article33318722.ece
13 December 2020||RAJAMAHENDRAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Postal covers on Alluri’s life to be released||Rajamahendravaram Member of Parliament Margani Bharat and Chief Post Master General M. Venkateswarlu here on Saturday released a postal cover on freedom fighter and historian Padala Rama Rao, who documented the life of Alluri Sitarama Raju. Addressing a gathering of admirers of Alluri, Mr. Venkateswarlu has announced that the postal department has prepared to release a series of postal covers in coming months, detailing the life and freedom struggle led by Alluri in Andhra Pradesh. “We have already selected freedom fighters, cultural events and places that depict the glorious past of the State for the covers. The postal covers on Kakinada Kaza, Sirimanotsav in Vizianagaram district have received huge response from the public,” said Mr. Venkateswarlu. Alluri Sitarama Raju Yuvajana Sangham founder Padala Veerabhadra Rao said that the valour displayed by Alluri during the Independence struggle needs to be highlighted as it would be an inspiration for the younger generations. “The decision to focus on Alluri’s contribution to the struggle comes at a time when people of Telugu speaking States are forgetting him,” said Mr. Veerabhadra Rao, son of Mr. Rama Rao.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/postal-covers-on-alluris-life-to-be-released/article33318138.ece
13 December 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ambulance donated||Srikakulam Member of Parliament Kinjarapu Rammohan Naidu on Saturday said precious lives could be saved only with immediate first aid to patients. Handing over an ambulance, bought with MP Local Area Development funds, to Lions Club chairman Natukula Mohan and president Ch. Krishnamohan here, he said many people in rural areas needed ambulance service since the existing services were not sufficient to handle all emergency cases. Lions Club secretary Badana Devabhusana Rao and the club’s charter secretary Nara Eswara Rao and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ambulance-donated/article33318139.ece
13 December 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Special programmes for Dhanurmasam: TTD EO||Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams(TTD) has decided to organise special spiritual programmes during the Dhanurmasam festival commencing on December 16, said Executive Officer K.S. Jawahar Reddy. The decision comes in the wake of overwhelming response received from devotees to various spiritual programmes like Kartikamasa deeksha, Virataparva, Sundarakanda and Bhagawad Gita parayanams (aired on SVBC). In this connection, TTD has also planned a three-hour recitation of Gita Parayanam on the eve of Vaikunta Ekadasi (December 25th) - the day coinciding with Gita Jayanti. Addressing mediapersons on Friday, Mr. Reddy said the TTD has devoted itself to the protection of cows and embarked on a mission of providing a cow to every temple in the State as well as the neighbouring States under ‘Gudiko gomata’ programme. He also appealed to the devotees not to fall prey to the fake offers on fictitious websites and to login only on TTD official portal www.tirupatibalaji.ap.gov.in for getting darshan, seva tickets and laddu prasadams.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/special-programmes-for-dhanurmasam-ttd-eo/article33318140.ece
13 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Group-I Mains at 41 centres from tomorrow||The AP Public Service Commission (APPSC) has made elaborate arrangements for conducting the Group-I Main examinations, scheduled from December 14 to 20. In a statement on Saturday, the commission Secretary P.S.R. Anjaneyulu said the exam would be conducted in seven sessions at 41 centres in the State and in Hyderabad. Of the total 9,679 registered candidates, 8,099 had downloaded their hall tickets as on December 12. Explaining about the time-table, he said the candidates would write their paper in Telugu (qualifying nature) on December 14, English (qualifying) on 15, Paper-I on 16, Paper-II on 17, Paper-III on 18, Paper-IV on 19 and Paper-V on December 20. All the exams would be held in the morning session from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. The candidates would be provided tabs with online question papers which would appear on the screen once the candidate logs in using the credentials supplied at appropriate time before the commencement of the examination. Question papers (soft copy) would be available in English and Telugu versions and those who intend to take the exam in Urdu medium should refer to the questions framed in English or Telugu version only. All the papers will be of descriptive type and would have to be answered in the booklets (answer books) supplied by the commission. It is mandatory for the candidates to strictly follow COVID-19 guidelines. They are advised to bring their gloves, personal hand sanitiser and transparent water bottle. The commission would also, however, make arrangements for supply of the sanitiser at the entry and exit hall. Verification The candidates would be allowed into the venue after verification of original photo ID from 8.45 a.m. to 9.30 a.m., with a grace period of 15 minutes (up to 9.45 a.m.). Examinees showing symptoms of COVID-19 would be made to write the exam in an isolation room.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/group-i-mains-at-41-centres-from-tomorrow/article33318643.ece
13 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Focus on framing of curriculum, new IIIT directors told||Quality should be the cornerstone of any education system, said Education Minister Adimulapu Suresh here on Saturday. Interacting with the newly-appointed Directors and other officials of the four IIIT campuses of the Rajiv Gandhi University of Knowledge Technologies (RGUKT), in the city, he said in its 18 months rule, the government had rolled out revolutionary reforms in the education sector. “The Chief Minister gives lot of his time to this sector,” he said, pointing to the initiatives introduced in the higher education sector. Advising them to bestow personal attention to the academic needs of students and focus on framing of curriculum, he said the government was particular about improving the standards of education and for the purpose, it had allocated 16% (roughly around Rs. 32,000 crore and 4% of the GSDP. “Skilling is one area that we need to focus on as students have been found lacking in it. There are enough jobs in the market for students equipped with the required skills.” he said. The Chief Minister wanted incubation centres set up in all the four campuses of the IIITs – Srikakulam, Nuzvid, Ongole and R.K. Valley, he said. The issue of staff shortage at these institutions would be addressed on a priority basis, he added. RGUKT Chancellor K.C. Reddy, APSCHE Chairman and Vice-Chancellor of RGUKT K. Hemachandra Reddy, the new Directors of the four IIITs P. Jagadeeswara Rao (Srikakulam), B. Jayarami Reddy (Ongole), G.V.R. Srinivasa Rao (Nuzvid) and K. Sandhya Rani (R.K. Valley) were among those present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/focus-on-framing-of-curriculum-new-iiit-directors-told/article33318646.ece
13 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pawan Kalyan worships at Balaji temple at Dokiparru||Jana Sena Party president Pawan Kalyan visited the Sri Venkateswara Swamy temple at Dokiparru village in Krishna district on Saturday. He was welcomed by temple trust board chairman Pitchi Reddy and Megha Engineering and Infrastructure Limited MD P.V. Krishna Reddy. JSP political affairs committee chairman Nadendla Manohar and others participated in the programme. On the occasion, Mr. Pawan Kalyan said he was happy to visit the temple after a long time, and hoped it would grow into a spiritual centre. Earlier, Mr. Pawan Kalyan reached the Gannavaram airport at 10 a.m., where he was given a rousing reception by party cadres from Krishna and Guntur districts. Farmers submitted a memorandum at Vuyyuru, requesting him to raise his voice against the governments’ negligence in resolving a host of issues faced by them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pawan-kalyan-worships-at-balaji-temple-at-dokiparru/article33318651.ece
13 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. school students top RGUKT entrance test||Gurram Vamsi Krishna, a student of the AP Model School at Dachepalli in Guntur district, came first in the Rajiv Gandhi University of Knowledge Technologies (RGUKT) Common Entrance Test - 2020 by securing 99 out of 100 marks. Education Minister Adimulapu Suresh released the results of the test at a press conference here on Saturday. P. Zakir Hussain from Kadapa district and I.S. Arya Yugandhar from Dolepet Zilla Parishad High School, Rajam, secured the second and third places respectively. The Minister said the RGUKT had to deviate from its regular practice of admitting students based on their 10th class marks this year due to the COVID-19 pandemic that necessitated cancellation of the 10th class exams and conduct of CET to identify merit students. The students who qualified in this exam would get admission in six-year integrated B.Tech programme and a few diploma programmes offered by Acharya N.G. Ranga University, Guntur, Sri Venkateswara Veterinary University, Tirupati and Dr. YSR Horticulture University, for the academic year 2020-21. The counselling would start on January 4 and classes would tentatively begin in the second week of January, he said. The exam notification was released on October 23. A total of 88,974 applications were received and 85,755 candidates appeared for the exam on December 5 at 630 exam centres in Andhra Pradesh and eight centres in Telangana.  Inter admissions The Minister said private educational institutions must carry out admission process through online mode in strict adherence to the norms stipulated by the government and any deviations would result in the institutions losing their recognition. The government had given permission for establishment of 300 new colleges from this academic year, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/government-school-students-top-rgukt-entrance-test/article33318141.ece
13 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||262 cases disposed of in e-Lok Adalat||As many as 262 cases (involving an amount of Rs. 1.01 crore) pending disposal in the Andhra Pradesh High Court were settled in the e-Lok Adalat organised by Chief Justice of the High Court Justice J.K. Maheswari and the AP State Legal Services Authority on Saturday. In an official release, Legal Services Committee secretary M.V. Ramana Kumari said a total of 368 cases involving parties willing to compromise were referred to the e-Lok Adalat conducted by three Benches chaired by APLSA Chairman Justice A.V. Sesha Sai and Justices C. Praveen Kumar and Ninala Jayasurya. High Court advocates T.V.S. Ramulu, V. Raghu and J.M.U.V Prasad were members of the Benches. Ms. Ramana Kumari thanked the judges, advocates and representatives of government departments for making the e-Lok Adalat a success.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/262-cases-disposed-of-in-e-lok-adalat/article33318647.ece
13 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Telugu Desam team for Eluru today||A three-member TDP team, led by N. Chinarajappa and comprising MLCs Y.V.B. Rajendra Prasad and P. Ashok Babu, will visit Eluru on December 13 and interact with the victims of the mysterious disease. The leaders will also talk to the doctors and take a look at the drinking water supply facilities and other aspects as part of their stock-taking exercise, according to a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/telugu-desam-team-for-eluru-today/article33318652.ece
13 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||VAAs to handle distribution of farm inputs at RBKs||The government on Saturday approved the duties and responsibilities of Village Agriculture Assistants (VAAs) and village / ward volunteers in distribution of fertilizers, micronutrients and bulk feeds through Rythu Bharosa Kendras (RBKs) at the doorstep of farmers. According to a G.O. issued by the Special Chief Secretary (Agriculture and Cooperation) Poonam Malakondaiah, the Village Agriculture Assistants will be the in-charges of RBKs for all activities/operations concerning the distribution of fertilizers, micronutrients and bulk feed. They will also be responsible for assessing product-wise and company-wise stock requirement at RBKs and place indents with AP-MARKFED or the hub in-charge for supply of stocks and ensuring their delivery to farmers without any delay on collection of payments. The VAAs will have to work in close association with the district managers, agri inputs, of AP-MARKFED.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vaas-to-handle-distribution-of-farm-inputs-at-rbks/article33318649.ece
13 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Establish rule of law in State’||TDP president N. Chandrababu Naidu on Saturday wrote to DGP Goutam Sawang expressing concern over “deterioration of law and order in State.” Referring to the attack on partymen at Angallu in Chittoor district on Friday, he said instead of arresting the YSRCP leaders, DSP Madusudhanachari arrested the TDP leaders. “ It is important to establish rule of law,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/establish-rule-of-law-in-state/article33318644.ece
13 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Officials inspect polling stations||District Collector A.Md. Imtiaz said that booth level voter enrolment and voter list revision has been taken in the district on December 12 and 13 following the Election Commission of India guidelines. Mr. Imtiaz along with Electoral Roll Observer for Krishna B. Sreedhar visited polling stations at CVR Municipal High School, Bishop Azaraiah School, Andhra Loyola College, Siddhartha Law College and others. Mr. Imtiaz said those who would complete 18 years of age by January 1, 2021 have to enrol at the polling stations. Also, voters requiring changes in their voter card details can apply at the polling stations with supporting documents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/officials-inspect-polling-stations/article33318648.ece
13 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||City to get 10 bottle crushing machines||The Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation will soon put up 10 PET bottle crushing machines at major junctions in the corporation limits as part of its plastic waste management efforts. PET bottles are made of polyethylene terephthalate and can be recycled to manufacture new bottles. The initiative to install the bottle crushing machines will thus go a long way towards recycling plastic waste generated in the city, GVMC officials said, adding that they will also embark on awareness campaigns highlighting the ban on single-use plastic. Additional Commissioner V. Sanyasi Rao said that under Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR), 10 bottle crushing machines will be provided by HPCL to GVMC. Each machine will cost Rs. 1 lakh, he said. “The machines will be put up at major junctions having high footfalls like Beach Road, RTC Complex, Jagadamba Junction and Gajuwaka. All people have to do is drop their plastic bottles in it and the machine will take care of the rest. The scrap will be handed over to NGOs or companies that recycle the waste,” he said. A few NGOs are working on recycling plastic waste and a PSU in Parawada has a unit, he said. ‘Waste to artefacts’ GVMC Commissioner G. Srijana said that to combat plastic pollution in the city, apart from creating awareness, collecting wastes from dry resource centres and penalising shopkeepers found using the banned plastic, the corporation is also coming up with various activities. She said that artworks made of plastic, like the giant fish that was erected on Beach Road, would be put up at various parts of the city. “A few junctions are being identified where such ‘waste to artefacts’ will be arranged soon under GVMC limits,” she told The Hindu . Ms. Srijana added that ‘plastic parlours’ concept is also being received well and they will be increased in the city. Denizens can get products or services by exchanging plastic waste at these parlours. The civic body is also collecting fines from shopkeepers who are using single-use plastic by conducting special drives.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vizag-to-get-10-bottle-crushing-machines/article33318679.ece
13 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Keep your word and shift Divi’s unit to Vizag, farmers and fishermen urge CM||Farmers and fishermen of villages in Thondangi mandal in East Godavari district have asked the government to shift the Divi’s bulk drug unit proposed in the district to the Pharma City in Visakhapatnam. Addressing the media along with Jana Sena Party (JSP) general secretaries Shiva Shankar and B. Satyanarayana here on Saturday, they said that the pollution caused by the bulk drug unit would affect the soil health and marine life, which in turn would have a severe impact on their livelihood. The unit is proposed to be set up on 505 acres of land near Kothapakulu village in the mandal. D-patta land Mr. Satyanarayana said that the government had in 2008 earmarked about 10,500 acres of land for the Kakinada SEZ in the mandal. About 2,100 acres of it are D-patta lands, which was being cultivated by the landless farmers. “Now, the Divi’s unit is proposed in an extent of 505 acres of the D-patta lands. The land was selected by the APIIC in 2016, and the farmers had been told to move out without even conducting a public hearing or announcing a plan for their rehabilitation,” Mr. Satyanarayana said. “The Divi’s unit was cleared by the TDP government in 2016. But during his walkathon in 2017, Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy had promised us that the unit would be shifted to the Pharma City,” said Sudhakar, a fisherman from Kothapakulu. “Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy had then spoken about human rights and observed that our lives and health would be affected if the drug unit was set up in the village. He also assured that the unit would be shifted on coming to power. But now, he has gone back on his word and has given the nod for the project,” Mr. Sudhakar alleged. Pollution “The lives of about 30,000 fishermen will be affected as the catch will dwindle if the effluents from the plant are drained out into the sea. Groundwater too will be polluted and our annual three crops will be affected badly,” feared Krishnaveni, a farmer from the village. “There are about 300 hatcheries in the region. Due to the groundwater pollution, they will have to be shut down. As a consequence, the lives of 40,000 people dependent on the hatcheries will be affected,” she said. ‘Violation of rights’ “The unit is proposed on the land belonging to the landless poor. This a violation of their rights as the D-Patta lands can only be taken for public purpose,” Mr. Shiva Shankar observed. He also questioned the motive of the government, especially when the Andhra Pradesh High Court, on a petition filed by the farmers and fishermen, had order a status quo. The farmers and fishermen also demanded that the government develop the hatcheries and agriculture in the region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/keep-your-word-and-shift-divis-unit-to-vizag-farmers-and-fishermen-urge-cm/article33318654.ece
13 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Margasira festival from Dec. 15||The annual month-long Margasira festival is all set to begin from Tuesday (December 15) at the Sri Kanaka Mahalakshmi Temple in Burujupeta, with temple authorities stating that all arrangements are in place. Speaking to reporters here on Saturday, temple executive officer J.S. Madhavi said the Margasira festival will formally begin on Tuesday with rituals such as Vigneswara puja, Sri Chakra archana and Lakshmi homam. An advance slot booking system has been introduced at the temple for the first time, Ms. Madhavi said, adding that only those devotees who take tokens in advance will be allowed inside the temple. The EO also added that those who do not wear a mask would not be allowed entry. Slot tokens are being issued for special darshan of Rs. 100, Rs. 200 and Rs. 500 as well as for free darshan. Darshan slot tokens are being issued at Sri Sitarama Swamy temple at Ambica Bagh at Jagadamba Junction, and Sri Jagannadha Swamy temple at Town Kotha Road. She said every devotee should carry their Aadhaar card. While queue lines for free darshan and Rs. 100 token start from Town Kotha Road, queue lines for Rs. 200 and Rs. 500 start from Ghosha Hospital. She said children below 10 years of age and persons over 65 years of age will not be allowed for darshan. She said on normal days, darshan will be held from 7 a.m. to 9 p.m. and 6,000 devotees will be allowed. On Thursdays, darshan will start from 2 a.m. and will continue till 9 p.m. and 12,000 people will be allowed. Ms. Madhavi said that there will be no cultural programmes and Annadanam. She said there will be archaka sadassu on January 3 and Sahasra ghata abhishekam will be performed on January 7. The festival will conclude on January 13.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/margasira-festival-from-dec-15/article33318681.ece
13 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Solace for food truck owners as crowds return to Night Bazaar||Opened with much fanfare in February this year, the Night Bazaar on Old Jail Road quickly became the go-to destination for foodies in the city who craved for a quick bite late at night. Visitors were spoilt for choice at the Night Bazaar’s Food Arena, where over 80 food trucks offered a wide range of scrumptious food. Owners of the food trucks were also upbeat about their investments as business was good. There was also talk of allowing the Night Bazaar to stay open for an extended period of time. However, things took an unexpected turn barely a month later as the COVID-19 pandemic struck. All food trucks saw their business come to a grinding halt, and struggled to tide through the pandemic. While a handful of food trucks gradually reopened just over a month ago, the others reopened recently, hoping to recoup some of their losses. ‘Good to be back’ “It is good to be back in business. The last few months have been very difficult as we had no source of income. After the relaxations allowed by authorities, some food trucks and stalls have reopened and we are witnessing a steady trickle of visitors. We are doing good business now and are hopeful of recovering from our losses,” said A. Raja, who runs a stall at the Food Arena. However, the vendors say that they are missing out on the late-night movie crowd. “A bulk of our customers are people who go for late-night movies. Many of them drop by here to catch a bite after the movie after 11 p.m. Unfortunately, with no blockbuster movies being released recently, the movie crowd is missing in action,” said Ravi Kumar, a worker at a fast food stall. Many vendors rue that the police are permitting them to stay open only till 10 p.m.. Earlier, they were being allowed to stay open till 2 a.m. Some generally come after 11 p.m. or 12 a.m. due to midnight cravings or to celebrate a birthday party, which is not possible now due to restrictions in wake of the pandemic. Pending proposals There was also a proposal to convert the Night Bazaar into a full-fledged Night Food & Crafts Bazaar, giving space to craft makers. As of now, the proposal is still pending for authorisation from higher officials, officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/solace-for-food-truck-owners-as-crowds-return-to-night-bazaar/article33318721.ece
13 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||5-year BBM-MBA programme at AU||Andhra University is starting a five-year integrated BBM-MBA programme in academic collaboration with IIM, Visakhapatnam for both domestic and international students from the 2020-21 academic year in accordance with the National Educational Policy 2020 as envisaged by the Government of India. Announcing it on Saturday, Registrar V. Krishna Mohan said that the students shall be selected based on group discussion and personal interview following the rule of reservation. “It is a unique curriculum designed to develop skill-sets required to excel in one’s profession. Students are required to do compulsory internships at the end of each academic year, thus providing practical exposure. Guest lectures from renowned overseas professors will be organised,” he said. The Registrar added that the eligibility for this course is 10+2 from a recognised university/board with 50% marks or second class or equivalent CGPA. Candidates awaiting results of qualifying examinations can also apply. Details are available onwww.audoa.in, and the varsity has begun receiving online applications December 9, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/5-year-bbm-mba-programme-at-au/article33318725.ece
13 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||24-year-old tiger dies of multi-organ failure||Curator of Indira Gandhi Zoological Park (IGZP), Nandani Salaria, on Saturday announced that a 24-year-old tiger named Vinay which was housed at the Animal Rescue Centre (ARC) died in the early hours of Saturday after suffering from multi-organ failure. Vinay was rescued from Famous Circus, Kolkata on June 12, 2002 and was housed at ARC Visakhapatnam since then. The animal outlived its life span and died after multi-organ failure due to old age, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tiger-dies-of-multi-organ-failure/article33318726.ece
13 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two dead in accident at Pendurthi||Two persons were killed in a road accident after their motorcycle was allegedly hit by a lorry at Pendurthi in Visakhapatnam city on Saturday morning. The deceased were identified as V. Ramana (40) and K. Amarnath (32), both hailing from Santhapalem in Vizianagaram district. According to the police, Ramana and Amarnath were heading to Visakha Dairy from their hometown for work. They were allegedly hit by a lorry near Karakavanipalem junction. While Ramana died on the spot, Amarnath died while undergoing treatment at King George Hospital (KGH). Pendurthi police have registered a case. A further investigation is on into the incident, police said. In another accident, one person died while another was injured when their two-wheeler was hit by a lorry. The incident allegedly occurred when the duo were heading towards Convent junction from Airport area. The injured is being treated at a hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-killed-in-accident/article33318720.ece
13 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||CRPF constable held for ‘cheating’ woman||Gajuwaka police arrested a 30-year-old CRPF constable for allegedly cheating a woman by making false promises of marriage, here on Saturday. According to police, the CRPF constable, identified as Hema Sundar, of Peda Gantyada, cheated a woman of Gajuwaka. In her complaint, the woman alleged that she was impregnated by the constable. The woman also complained that Hemasundar went back on his promise of marrying her. Based on the complaint, police registered a case under relevant sections against the culprit and launched an investigation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/crpf-constable-held-for-cheating-woman/article33318732.ece
13 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Recovery rate rises to 98.6%||The district reported 18 new COVID-19 infections and one death in the last 24 hours, according to the COVID-19 bulletin released on Saturday evening. With the new cases, the total caseload rose to 59,125 while the death toll rose to 516. As many as 29 persons undergoing treatment for the virus have recovered. The number of recoveries increased to 58,348, with the recovery rate rising to 98.6%. The number of active cases has declined to 261. Out of the active cases, around 100 are being treated in hospitals, while others are undergoing treatment in home quarantine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/recovery-rate-rises-to-986-in-vizag/article33318715.ece
13 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Venkaiah’s visit concludes||Vice President M. Venkaiah Naidu concluded his seven-day visit to Visakhapatnam and left for Delhi on Saturday. He was accorded a warm send-off by Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao, District Collector V. Vinay Chand and City Police Commissioner Manish Kumar Sinha at the airport. The Vice-President, during his stay, paid a visit to Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute and Central Institute of Fisheries Technology and interacted with scientists. He also addressed a couple of virtual meetings from the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/venkaiahs-visit-concludes/article33318655.ece
13 December 2020||December 13 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sweet burden||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sweet-burden/article33318717.ece
13 December 2020||December 13 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Religious fervour||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/religious-fervour/article33318724.ece
13 December 2020||December 13 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Buzz by the Bay||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/buzz-by-the-bay/article33318729.ece
13 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||KCR presents a wish list of 22 demands to Modi||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao was said to have handed over 22 representations pressing State's demands at his meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday evening. In the memoranda to Mr. Modi at their 50-minute meeting, Mr. Rao sought immediate release of pending dues to the State under backward districts development programme envisaged under the A.P. Reorganisation Act. The Centre had released Rs. 450 crore per year for four of the last five years and one instalment was pending. A unit of Cement Corporation of India at Adilabad should be revived with the support of National Highways Authority of India. The strength of judges in the Telangana High Court should be increased from 24 to 42. An Indian Institute of Management and an Indian Institute of Science Education and Research should be sanctioned to the State. A National Institute of Design should be set up in Hyderabad in accordance with a proposal already cleared. Post bifurcation of the State, the institute was shifted to Visakhapatnam. As many as 23 Navodaya Vidyalaya schools should be set up in Telangana in tune with a decision of the State government to have them in all the districts. The pending railway projects should be completed in the State. The necessary funds may be released by the Railway Ministry. The Mission Bhagiratha programme of the State government should get from the Centre Rs. 19,205 crore and the Mission Kakatiya Rs. 5,000 crore as per the recommendations of NITI Aayog. A steel plant should be set up at Bayyaram and the National Investment and Manufacturing Zone at Zaheerabad should get Central funds. The categorisation of SCs should be taken up in tune with a resolution of the State Assembly. An International Institute of Information Technology should be set up at Karimnagar in public-private participation mode. The reservations in Telangana should be hiked. The backward classes among Muslims should get 12% and the overall reservations for BCs could be fixed at 37%. The SCs should get 15% and STs 10%. Women should get 33% reservation in Parliament and Assembly. The State Assembly had already passed a resolution in this regard. The Hyderabad-Nagpur and Warangal-Hyderabad industrial corridor should be developed and the State should get Rs. 4,000 crore under Pradhan Mantri Grameen Sadak Yojana for highways development in backward areas. The road development in left wing extremist-affected areas should be completely funded by the Centre instead of the expenditure shared in 60:40 ratio by Central and State governments. A tribal university at Warangal on the lines of Central University, Rs. 1,000 crore grant-in-aid for textile park at Warangal and world heritage status for Ramappa temple in Warangal were th other demands. The flood flow canal of Sriramsagar project should be released funds as per revised estimates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/kcr-presents-a-wish-list-of-22-demands-to-modi/article33318443.ece
13 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Equipment innovated by ESIC docs inaugurated||Medical equipment that were innovated by doctors of ESIC Medical College at Sanathnagar, in collaboration with government and private organisations, were inaugurated by Union Minister of State for Home Affairs G. Kishan Reddy on Saturday morning. The products include Innovative Portable Point of Care RT-PCR machine, remote health monitoring system, and COVID safe incubators for newborns. Doctors and staff at the hospital have been attending to COVID patients since March. Simultaneously, some of them have worked on the products. From March to October, 2,688 In-Patients with COVID-19, and 11,996 patients with the infectious disease had consulted the doctors at the ESIC Super Speciality Hospital. Portable Usually, swab samples collected to detect coronavirus, are examined in laboratories. The ‘Innovative Portable Point of Care RT-PCR’ machine can be carried anywhere such as remote villages. Rather than collecting samples from faraway places and taking them to the lab, they can be tested at the spot. This was developed by ESIC in collaboration with a private firm. Another product that was indigenously developed are ‘COVID safe incubators for newborn babies’ by modifying existing incubators. “Regular incubators are routinely used for newborn babies to manage jaundice and other diseases. During the pandemic, two variants of incubators were developed, positive pressure and negative pressure incubators. Positive pressure incubators shield the healthy, COVID-19 negative newborn babies from the virus infected external environment by using HEPA filters. Negative pressure incubators will prevent transmission from the COVID-19 positive newborn babies to the external environment,” as per a press release. This was developed at the super speciality hospital. Mr. Kishan Reddy also inaugurated round-the-clock in-house dialysis service with 50 beds. Around 600 patients with kidney failure who needed dialysis were attached to the hospital. Earlier, they were referred to private hospitals. With the in-house dialysis service, In-Patients at the hospital will be treated there itself. Union Minister for Labour and Employment Santhosh Kumar Gangwar participated in the inauguration virtually. Dean of ESIC Medical College M. Srinivas and others were present at the programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/equipment-upgraded-by-esic-doctors-inaugurated/article33318428.ece
13 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TRS govt. completes two years today||The TRS government completes two years in its second term on Sunday with several achievements but also quite a few setbacks during the period. It was on this day in 2018 that Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao and Home Minister Mohammed Mahmood Ali were sworn in to mark the installation of the government after a landslide victory for TRS in elections. Among its achievements were the inauguration of Kaleshwaram lift-irrigation project on June 21 last year to irrigate 80 lah acres. The government also enhanced the assistance to farmers under Rytu Bandhu scheme from Rs. 8,000 to Rs. 10,000 per acre. In view of the pandemic, paddy was purchased from farmers at their villages instead of having to shift the stocks to agricultural market yards. Dharani portal Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao launched the Dharani portal of land transactions near Medchal two months ago which received good response. During lockdown on account of COVID this year, the government distributed Rs. 1,500 per family to the poor in April and May besides free rice. The government launched Palle Pragathi programme of sanitation in villages and increased the salaries of sanitation workers from Rs. 5,000 to 8,500 per month. Similarly, the Pattana Pragathi programme was taken up in towns. The COVID pandemic gave the State government an opportunity to execute infrastructure works worth Rs. 2,000 crore. The Bibinagar campus of All India Institute of Medical Sciences was inaugurated in December last year. Amazon started its largest campus in the country in Hyderabad around the same time. Despite the achievements, the government invited flak for not effectively checking the Rayalaseema lift-irrigation project and expansion of capacity of Pothireddypadu project by the Andhra Pradesh government. The flood relief of Rs. 10,000 per family did not reach all the affected families. The government was targeted by the Opposition for demolition of Secretariat complex and its handling of the strike by Road Transport Corporation crew. Farmers who cultivated fine varieties of paddy suffered for want of market. The government was yet to implement its promise of unemployment allowance but committed itself to fulfilling the same. The government’s promise to reduce the age limit for accessing social security pensions from 60 to 57 years was yet to be implemented.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/trs-govt-completes-two-years-today/article33318441.ece
13 December 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||30 cadets pass out from MCEME||Thirty Gentlemen Cadets (GCs) of Technical Entry Scheme (TES-36) course passed out from the portals of Cadets Training Wing (CTW), Military College of Electronics and Mechanical Engineering (MCEME), under the aegis of Army Training Command at the Passing out Parade ceremony held at Carriappa Drill Square on Saturday. The GCs were pipped as commissioned officers in the rank of ‘Lieutenant’ by senior military officers at the parade presided over by Commandant, MCEME, Lt Gen TSA Narayanan. The General Officer stressed on the importance of professionalism, commitment and sacrifice, which they will be required to make during their journey as an officer. He also apprised them of the challenges to national security. Platoon Cadet Captain R. Rishab Shankar was awarded the prestigious Sword of Honour for standing first in the overall order of merit, while Shivaji was awarded the coveted, GOC-in-C, ARTRAC Banner for winning the Inter Platoon Championship for Autumn Term-2020. In consonance with the existing instructions on COVID-19 protocol, the parents and dear ones of the GCs were unable to attend the Passing out Parade as is the tradition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/30-gentlemen-cadets-pass-out-from-mceme/article33318436.ece
13 December 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||PCC chief: seniors seek weightage||Congress seniors demanded priority to their views over the district leaders and other frontal organisations on the selection of the new Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) chief. Seniors consisting of MLAs D. Sreedhar Babu, T. Jayaprakash Reddy and Podem Veeraiah and Bhongir MP Komatireddy Venkata Reddy met AICC incharge Manickam Tagore and informed him that priority should be given to the views of the MLAs, MPs and Core Committee members on the PCC choice. They welcomed eliciting views from all sections but wanted their opinions to carry more weight. Their meeting apparently comes in the wake of reports that majority of district Congress presidents and other frontal organisations argued in favour of Malkajgiri MP A. Revanth Reddy while seniors wanted someone else to lead the party. These leaders discussed among themselves before meeting Mr. Tagore to make their point. TPCC chief N. Uttam Kumar Reddy and CLP leader Bhatti Vikramarka stayed out of this meeting. Sangareddy MLA T. Jayaprakash Reddy said they had asked Mr. Tagore to consider their views seriously and carefully with important elections around. Mr. Reddy felt that rather than going by the majority decision the PCC president should be chosen unanimously to ensure party affairs run smoothly. “We met him to ensure that the party is not split on the issue but they have not suggested any particular name,” he saidhoping AICC president Sonia Gandhi would take a wise decision. Meanwhile, Mr. Revanth Reddy tweeted, after Mr. Tagore left Hyderabad, requesting Congress followers to trust the process initiated by Mr. Tagore and respect any outcome. “I expect everyone to refrain from passing any negative remarks and have faith in the leadership decision,” he tweeted. Divided The four-day process by Mr. Tagore saw the Congress divided over the PCC president. While most senior leaders claimed the post for themselves they were unanimous in opposing Mr. Revanth Reddy saying he was a new entrant. and loyalty should be honoured, according to a senior leader.They also accused him of denigrating seniors on social media while promoting himself. However, Mr. Revanth Reddy rejected that social media support was his initiation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/pcc-chief-seniors-seek-weightage/article33318445.ece
13 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||More literate men than women in State: NFHS||The percentage of literate men aged 15 to 49 years is more compared to women of the same age group in Telangana, as per the National Family Health Survey (NFHS)-5 (2019-20) fact sheet released on Saturday. According to it, while 84.8% of men were literate, it is only 66.6% in case of women. It refers to people who completed ninth standard or higher, and who can read a whole sentence or part of a sentence. Considering the data, focus is more on women’s education now. While 61.2% of men received 10 or more years of schooling, only 45.5% of women received 10 or more years of schooling. The NFHS provides information on population, health, and nutrition for India and each State, Union Territory. Phase-1 of the fifth edition of the survey has the data on 22 States and Union Territories. Compared to the earlier NFHS fact sheets, the fifth edition has some new topics such as pre-school education, disability, access to a toilet facility, death registration, bathing practices during menstruation, and the methods and reasons for abortion. According to the fact sheet, the NFHS-5 data will be useful in setting benchmarks and examining the progress the health sector has made over time. Besides, providing evidence for the effectiveness of ongoing programmes, the data helps in identifying the need for new programmes with an area specific focus and identifying groups that are most in need of essential services. In Telangana, the field work for NFHS-5 was conducted from June 30 to November 14, 2019. The information was gathered from 27,351 households, 3,863 men, and 27,518 women. According to NFHS-4 (2015-16), the sex ratio of the total population (females per 1,000 males) was 1,007. It increased to 1,049, according to the NFHS-5. The fact sheet released on Saturday draws comparison with the data from NFHS-4. One of the important indicators is Neonatal Mortality Rate (NNMR). In Telangana, it has dropped from 20.0 to 16.8. The World Health Organisation defines NNMR as “Number of deaths during the first 28 completed days of life per 1,000 live births in a given year or period”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/more-literate-men-than-women-in-state/article33318431.ece
13 December 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘CM’s Delhi visit to pacify BJP’||The Telangana Congress continued its attack on Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao, finding ulterior motives in his New Delhi visit and claimed this was nothing but an exercise to pacify the BJP leadership for participating in the Bharat bandh call and announcing an anti-BJP platform just before the GHMC elections. “We have been informing how the Chief Minister fears the Delhi leadership and it proved to be right again. The unplanned visit and the body language clearly reflects that KCR went to express his apologies rather than seeking funds for Telangana,” TPCC working president Ponnam Prabhakar said at a press conference. “State officials are nowhere to be seen in the meetings with Ministers and why are they not present if the CM was really talking about state’s development? If the CM is asking funds for the city floods where is the assessment done and why is not being shared?” he asked. He said BJP leaders from New Delhi levelled serious allegations of corruption against KCR but were always silent for some mysterious reasons and they needed to explain to people their secret friendship. At a separate press conference, AICC Secretary Madhu Yaskhi, MLC T. Jeevan Reddy and former Minister G. Chinna Reddy questioned the absence of officials in the meetings. It was strange that the CM was meeting Home Minister Amit Shah and other Ministers seeking flood relief assistance without officials. Mr. Madhu Yaskhi claimed it was evident that BJP, TRS and MIM put up a fake fight in the GHMC elections to harm the Congress. They all worked together with the sole of aim of defeating Congress during the elections by raking up emotional issues, he said. He asked why the CM was silent in the land grabbing charges on his MLAs. During the Congress regime there was always accountability on these issues and MLAs were warned and enquiry was launched into such allegations. ‘Issues neglected’ Mr. Chinna Reddy and Mr Jeevan Reddy asked why the CM was not responding to a resolution in the Assembly against the farm Bills when he supported the Bharat bandh. The CM’s visit to Delhi should be shared with people and explained the political benefits that were sought by the Chief Minister from the Delhi leadership. Mr Jeevan Reddy demanded that the government provide an assistance of Rs. 10,000 per acre to farmers who cultivated fine variety paddy on the assurance of the Chief Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/delhi-visit-to-pacify-bjp/article33318444.ece
13 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||IDA Pashamylaram set to get CETP next year||A zero liquid discharge common effluent treatment plant (CETP) to handle 480 kilo litres per day of industrial waste water generated from IDA Pashamylaram is expected to become operational within eight months. Foundation for the project, being set up by Ramky Enviro Engineers in partnership with pharma companies from IDA Pashamylaram, was laid on Friday. The project is expected to be operational in 6-8 months. Overtime, it will be expanded to treat one million litre per day. The CETP will be fully equipped to treat and recycle industrial wastewater and completely help avoid chances of illegal discharge of waste water as well as help reduce demand on groundwater resources. The plant has a capacity to treat 480 KL industrial waste water daily and is proposed to be expanded to 1,000 KL per day, release from Ramky said. It, however, did not mention the time-frame by when the expansion will be completed. The project is being implemented as a joint venture between the group of pharma companies from IDA and Ramky Enviro, in which the latter will provide technical and operational expertise in developing and operating the CETP and hold majority stake in the JV company.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ida-pashamylaram-set-to-get-cetp-next-year/article33318423.ece
13 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||State records 635 more coronavirus cases||Telangana recorded another 635 cases of COVID-19 on Friday, taking the total number of infections to 2,77,151. While 52,308 samples were put to test, results of 607 were awaited. Four more persons suffering from the novel coronavirus died. The new 635 cases include 141 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation region, 76 from Rangareddy and 72 from Medchal-Malkajgiri. From March 2 to December 9, a total of 60,81,517 samples have been tested. Of the total cases, 7,670 are active while 2,67,992 have recovered, and 1,489 have succumbed to the virus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/state-records-635-more-coronavirus-cases/article33318433.ece
13 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Device to remotely track BP, oxygen, heart rate||A device to remotely monitor the vital signs of COVID and non-COVID patients was indigenously developed by doctors at ESIC Medical College, Sanathnagar, in collaboration with Electronics Corporation of India Limited (ECIL). The wearable device measures blood pressure, heart rate, respiratory rate, oxygen saturation, and body temperature. This was one of the three products inaugurated by Union Minister of State for Home Affairs G. Kishan Reddy at the college on Saturday. Constant alert If there are any abnormalities in the vitals, an alert will be sent to doctors. Besides, contacts of family members, and ambulances, can be fed into it so that they too will receive the alerts. The tracking and alerting system uses indigenous Bhuvan Maps developed by Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO), Department of Space. The patient and the doctors or others can be in any part of the country or the world. Unique device Head of the Department of Physiology at the medical college Dr. Madhurima T is one of the team members who developed the product. She said that this product can be used to monitor the vitals of COVID-19 patients admitted in hospitals, and those isolated at home. While there are devices that measure the vitals and send the alerts, Dr. Madhurima said that this is a one-of-a-kind device which tracks the five parameters. It can be used by patients suffering from other health ailments also or who need constant monitoring. Family members of people in old age homes too, can use this to know the health status. For wider use The Physiology department head said that they had tested three to four versions of the device and the final product will be rolled out soon. Dean of the medical college Dr. M. Srinivas said that it will soon be introduced in the market for wider use by public.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/device-to-remotely-track-bp-oxygen-heart-rate/article33318429.ece
13 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Deputy Conservator of Forests arrested by ACB||Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) officials on Saturday arrested a Deputy Conservator of Forests, Inapanuri Prakash, who was on deputation with the Hyderabad Growth Corridors Limited (a wing of Hyderabad Metropolitan Development Authority), a day after finding unaccounted money from his office chamber and residence. In an official statement, the ACB authorities said they conducted surprise check at the office of Mr. Prakash, who was holding full additional charge of Director of Urban Forestry, located in Nanakramguda. An amount of Rs. 10.5 lakh was seized from his chamber. Another sum of Rs. 20,000 was found in his car. A separate team of ACB authorities seized Rs. 5.14 lakh from the officer’s flat in Dhulapally. Twenty-six files pertaining to sanctioning of bills submitted by contractors were found pending for clearance in his chamber. He was being presented before ACB Special Court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/deputy-conservator-of-forests-in-acb-net/article33318413.ece
13 December 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Restoring the original character of Qutb Shahi tombs’ landscape||Early 19th century paintings and photographs of Qutb Shahi Tombs in Hyderabad show the monuments in open splendour surrounded by gardens. But visitors to the heritage complex in the latter part of the 20th and 21st century saw a different precinct — reinforced concrete fountains, walls, monuments with connecting platforms, iron railings on platforms, a Japanese garden with a bridge over a water channel and an asphalt road connecting it all. But now, things are changing as the State government and the Aga Khan Trust for Culture are working on the landscape to restore the historic character of the necropolis. “The founder Sultan Quli’s buried garden enclosure was revealed during our research. It was an important discovery as it showed that the Qutb Shahis continued the Persian tradition of mausoleums in enclosed walled garden. The levels had changed over the years right from the time of Ibrahim Qutb Shah who built his own tomb at a higher level,” informs Ratish Nanda, CEO of AKTC. Outside the tombs complex, the Quli Qutub Shah Urban Development Authority built a Deccan Park. Inside, a boating facility, a toy train, an amphitheatre and assorted park amenities came up blighting the heritage complex. The earth excavated from the pond for boating was heaped on one side creating an unseemly mound that found favour with dozens of Telugu filmmakers. Now the entry to the Quli Qutb Shah Tombs complex will be through what used to be the Deccan Park. The aqueducts and water channels that had been buried over layers of soil and concrete forced the conservation architects to re-plan multiple times. “Access to the Hamam required earth levels to be reduced by over three feet to reveal the original stone paving. This excavation revealed a 17th century aqueduct criss-crossing the site,” says Mr. Nanda. The key to symmetrical Islamic gardens are the plants and trees. “The area is huge and I have suggested planting of cypress, kewda (screw pine), gul-e-abbas, gul-e-dawoodi (referred to by J.B. Tavernier), grape bower, maulsari and other plants in the garden. There are references to these in historical description as well as in poetry of the period,” informs historian Sajjad Shahid who helped the conservation team with research in Persian and Urdu documents. Tombs of commander and hakims that were plastered into one platform are now separated and show them in a new light. A stone pavement is also being laid to ensure the site can bear the footfalls of rising number of visitors anticipated after the conservation effort is complete.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/restoring-the-original-character-of-qutb-shahi-tombs-landscape/article33318418.ece
13 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Over Rs. 1 cr. earned through slot booking in a day||The State government on Saturday earned over Rs. 1 crore as remittances towards applicable fee and duties as part of 48 slots booked for registration of non-agricultural properties, which was launched on Friday. A release issued here said there had been very good response to the services in the first two days, Till evening, about 10,509 persons had registered on the system.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/over-rs-1-cr-earned-through-slot-booking-in-a-day/article33318410.ece
13 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||HC sets aside JLF’s call over fraud account||The Telangana High Court had set aside a decision of the Joint Lenders Forum (JLF), a group of banks, declaring the bank account of a company called M/s B.S. Limited as fraud. Pronouncing its verdict in a writ petition filed by the company’s former chairman Rajesh Agarwal, a division bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy had also set aside the resolution of Fraud Identification Committee identifying the company’s account as fraud. The bench instructed the JLF to give an opportunity of hearing to the petitioner by furnishing copies of the Forensic Audit Report dated April 6, 2018. The report of Interim Resolution Professional K.V. Srinivas should also be given to the petitioner and the official liquidator of the company, it said. The bench directed the JLF to personally hear the petitioner and the official liquidator before taking a call on classifying the company account as fraud. After JLF takes a decision on the matter, the FIC has to pass its resolution confirming JLF’s decision.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/jlf-call-over-fraud-account-set-aside/article33318416.ece
13 December 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Jeevan Reddy to decide on poll alliance for Cong.||Congress MLC T. Jeevan Reddy has been entrusted with the responsibility of any alliance with other political parties for the Nagarjunasagar bypoll and elections to the two Graduates MLC constituency and Khammam and Warangal Municipal Corporations to be held soon. A meeting of the senior leaders in the presence of AICC incharge Manickam Tagore and attended by TPCC president N. Uttam Kumar Reddy, CLP leader Bhtati Vikramarka, TPCC working presidents A. Revanth Reddy and Ponnam Prabhakar and AICC secretaries Bose Raju and Sreenivas Krishnan discussed the strategies to be adopted for the coming elections. The meeting decided to prepare separate manifestos and constitute separate election committees for all elections. The preparations would start right away and regular meetings would be held.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/jeevan-reddy-to-decide-on-poll-alliance-for-cong/article33318687.ece
13 December 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Paint firm forays into uPVC windows, doors||Paint manufacturer, Fortune Group, has made a foray into uPVC windows and doors segment. On Friday, the company said it recently established a manufacturing facility at Patancheru industrial area, Phase-2, near Hyderabad, with an investment of at Rs. 5 crore. The plant has a capacity of 25 lakh sq ft per annum. The Patancheru plant has created jobs for 70 skilled and unskilled people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/paint-firm-forays-into-upvc-windows-doors/article33318412.ece
13 December 2020||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||BRF||A total of 84 civil cases, 1,019 criminal cases, 36 pre-litigations of pending bill recovery from banks and 69 compensation claims under The Motor Vehicles Act, were resolved at the National Lok Adalat organised at all courts in undivided Nalgonda on Saturday. Principal District Judge M.V. Ramesh, earlier in the day, along with Secretary of the District Legal Services Authority, G. Venu, and other judicial officers inaugurated the Lok Adalat. A range of officials from the court, police, transport department and others participated in the day’s proceedings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/brf/article33318422.ece
13 December 2020||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Police keep their promise||S. Ashok is a resident of Etigaddakishtapur in Toguta mandal. He, along with others, has stopped works of Mallannasagar adjacent to the village last week stating that they were facing several problems including heavy sounds and dust. They demanded that they be paid compensation immediately and the houses being constructed at Mutrajpally be given to them. They stated that they were ready to vacate the village if their demands were met. In the past police used to threaten them with dire consequences and several times used force to disperse them. Instead, this time the police spoke with the agitators in soft language, requested them not to stop the work with a promise to take them to the officials including Collector. As promised, the police of Toguta took active initiative and arranged a meting with Revenue Divisional Officer (RDO) Siddipet at his office. The oustees village met the RDO and poured their problems to the official stating that they were ready to vacate the village provided all the compensations due for them including structure values were paid at one go. The RDO promised to take these issues to the notice of the Collector. Oustees informed the police of the same, and the police spoke to Collector P. Venkatarami Reddy, took his appointment and arranged a meeting with him at Mulugu Forest Guest House. “Many of us did not get compensation even today. Structure values of several oustees are pending. There are several aged persons who were yet to receive a package, while only few people received it so far. Similarly, allot us houses with pattas and we are ready to move into new houses. Compensations were paid only part of Sada Bainama lands and what will happen for the remaining lands as the land lost its nature?” the oustees asked the Collector. The villagers said the District Collector had promised to send Revenue Divisional Officer and other officials to the village next week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/police-keep-their-promise/article33318447.ece
13 December 2020||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||‘Reopening of schools under consideration’||Finance Minister T. Harish Rao said the government was actively considering reopening of private schools and colleges shortly. However, the Minister did not mention any dates. Addressing a gathering after extending grocery kits for about 1,000 private school teachers here on Saturday, Mr. Harish Rao said coronavirus had impacted the lives of several people and it had turned things upside down. "The national economy collapsed due to corona and growth rate fell to 8% from 24%. Income in the state fell short by Rs. 50,000 crore as against expected Rs. 1.82 lakh crore in the budget proposal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/reopening-of-schools-under-consideration/article33318688.ece
13 December 2020||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||brf||Two persons were killed and another injured when an RTC bus hit their motorcycle in Siddipet on Saturday. While Manda Prasad (21) and David (20) died on the spot, another person was seriously injured and was shifted to the government hospital at Gajwel. Finance Minister T. Harish Rao directed Collector P. Venkatarami to pay the victims’ families Rs. 5 lakh each. As an immediate assistance, Rs. 2 lakh was extended to the families. Gajwel Rural police registered a case and are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/brf/article33318437.ece
13 December 2020||YADADRI-BHUVANAGIRI,TELANGANA||Bandaru Dattatreya visits Yadadri||Governor of Himachal Pradesh Bandaru Dattatreya took darshan at the Sri Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy temple on Yadagirigutta here on Saturday. Chief priests of the temple gave him a purnakumbham welcome and blessed him in special prayers. Later, Mr. Dattatreya visited the under-construction main temple, at the side of the Balalayam, and admired the stone sculptures erected as part of the temple redevelopment. Speaking to media persons, he said the COVID-19 situation in the country had adversely impacted the economy of the State and the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bandaru-dattatreya-visits-yadadri/article33318409.ece
13 December 2020||December 13 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Standing tall||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/standing-tall/article33318439.ece
13 December 2020||AHMEDABAD,||Will compensate farmers for crop loss owing to unseasonal rain: Rupani||Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani on Saturday said the government will carry out a survey on the damage to crops due to the unseasonal rain in the last couple of days. More than 130 talukas have received rainfall in varying degrees, damaging standing and harvested crop lying in open farms and at the APMCs. “We will carry out a survey wherever unseasonal rain and crop damage are reported and will disburse compensation to the affected farmers accordingly. But that will be after a couple of days, as rainy weather persists,” he said. Since Thursday, Gujarat came under a spell of untimely rain in various parts, which has caused major damage to the standing crop, including groundnuts, cumin and cotton. The India Meteorological Department has forecast rain in Saurashtra and south Gujarat between December 10 and 14. Rain and light showers were reported in Amreli, Veraval, Junagadh, Bhavnagar, Ahmedabad, Baroda, Gandhinagar, Valsad, and Surat on Thursday and Friday. The Opposition Congress and farmers have demanded that the State government assess the damage and compensate the farmers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/will-compensate-farmers-for-crop-loss-owing-to-unseasonal-rain-rupani/article33318536.ece
13 December 2020||Aurangabad,||‘Bal Thackeray’s memorial will promote nationalism’||Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Saturday said the memorial to Shiv Sena supremo Bal Thackeray, proposed to be set up in Aurangabad, would promote the feeling of nationalism and Hindutva in future generations. He was speaking at the ground-breaking ceremony of a water pipeline project worth Rs. 1,680.50 crore. He also virtually performed the ground-breaking ceremony of three other projects: urban roads project worth Rs. 152 crore, Safari Park worth Rs. 174 crore, and the memorial of Bal Thackeray. Mr. Thackeray said, “The memorial will also tell the coming generations about his work. It is a coincidence that I am remotely performing the ground-breaking ceremony of the memorial of that leader who was known for having the remote control of power.” The Chief Minister said he might visit the city without intimation to review the work of the water pipeline scheme. He said when land acquisition for the Samruddhi Expressway project was on, the Sena had reached out to farmers. “We met the farmers and resolved their problems. We did not keep their issues hanging,” he said. On changing the name of Aurangabad airport, he said, “The proposal to name the airport after Chhatrapati Sambhaji has been sanctioned by the government and it has been forwarded to the Centre. I’m confident that it will be approved.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/bal-thackerays-memorial-will-promote-nationalism/article33318338.ece
13 December 2020||Aurangabad,||Riot in village as accused gets bail||Police in Sillod in Aurangabad district had to fire rubber bullets and four revolver rounds to control a mob protesting the granting of bail to a man accused of harassing a woman, an official said on Saturday. The mob ran amok late on Friday night in Kelgaon. Three policemen were injured, two vehicles were damaged, and 58 villagers were arrested for rioting. The official said, “On December 10, a woman from this village consumed poison after uploading a video that she was being harassed by a man. She is now stable. We arrested the accused, Ramdas Wagh, but he got bail the next day. This enraged villagers who attacked his home and kin.” He added that to save the people in Mr.Wagh’s house, police had to resort to mild lathi-charge, and fire two rubber bullets and four rounds from an officer’s service revolver to control the mob.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/riot-in-village-as-accused-gets-bail/article33318534.ece
13 December 2020||GUWAHATI,||Meghalaya group writes to PM, seeks entry restrictions, repeal of CAA||A pressure group in Meghalaya has petitioned Prime Minister Narendra Modi demanding the implementation of inner-line permit (ILP), a British-era entry restriction, in the State and the scrapping of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA). The memorandum by the Khasi Students’ Union (KSU) preceded the relaunch of the anti-CAA movement in the region on December 11. Effective mechanism The KSU said the ILP would be an effective mechanism to regulate the entry of outsiders into the State that has a microscopic indigenous population. It pointed out that ILP has helped the States in Northeast — barring Meghalaya, Assam and Tripura — maintain their indigenous demographic structure. The ILP, based on the Bengal Eastern Frontier Regulation of 1873, is applicable in Arunachal Pradesh, Manipur, Mizoram and Nagaland. ‘Long-pending issue’ “The demand for the implementation of ILP in Meghalaya is a long-pending issue which the KSU started highlighting since 1985. Due to excessive migration from outside the country and certain other States since 1971, there developed serious ramifications within the State whereby there is a contestation in all aspects between the indigenous tribal communities and the outsiders/migrant communities. Meghalaya is slowly becoming like Tripura and Assam where indigenous communities are being overwhelmed by migrant communities,” KSU wrote. The students’ body said petitions submitted to the State as well as Central government in this regard have not yielded any positive results so far. One of these petitions was submitted to Union Home Minister Amit Shah in November 2019, it said. “The Meghalaya Assembly on December 19, 2019, passed a resolution seeking the immediate implementation of the ILP in the entire State,” KSU reminded Mr Modi. Immigration issue On the CAA that seeks to fast-track Indian citizenship to non-Muslims from Afghanistan, Bangladesh and Pakistan, the KSU said Meghalaya had been bearing the brunt of massive illegal immigration since the onset of the Bangladesh Liberation War in 1971. “Taking a cue from the State of Tripura, the citizens of Meghalaya are wary of being overwhelmed by the larger migrant communities coming from Bangladesh,” the students’ organisation told the Prime Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/meghalaya-group-writes-to-pm-seeks-entry-restrictions-repeal-of-caa/article33318340.ece
13 December 2020||JAIPUR,||Stage peaceful demonstration on Delhi-Jaipur highway, says Gehlot||With hundreds of farmers gathering at the Rajasthan-Haryana border with plans for intensifying their agitation, Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Saturday called upon the protesters to stage a peaceful demonstration on the Delhi-Jaipur highway and raise their demands in a “democratic manner”. Rashtriya Loktantrik Party (RLP) chief and Nagaur MP Hanuman Beniwal, along with his supporters, as well as Kisan Mahapanchayat national president Rampal Jat joined the agitating farmers at the border between the two States. Mr. Beniwal earlier addressed a meeting of farmers at Kotputli, situated 110 km from Jaipur on the highway. Mr. Gehlot said the Centre should accept the farmers’ demand of repealing the agriculture sector laws “without delay”. “I am pleased [to note] that the farmers’ movement has been very peaceful so far. Violence has no place in democracy,” he tweeted. The Chief Minister asked the farmers to put their demands democratically before the Centre during their agitation on the Jaipur-Delhi highway and maintain peace. The farmers’ groups have announced that a ‘Dilli Chalo’ march with a tractor rally would start from Rajasthan’s Shahjahanpur after blocking the highway on Sunday. The RLP, which is a constituent of National Democratic Alliance from Rajasthan, has threatened to snap its alliance with the Bharatiya Janata Party if the new farm laws are not withdrawn. Mr. Beniwal said his party’s strength lay with the farmers, who were agitating in the extreme cold amid the COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/stage-peaceful-demonstration-on-delhi-jaipur-highway-says-gehlot/article33318339.ece
13 December 2020||JAIPUR,||Ghanshyam Tiwari returns to BJP||Veteran leader and former Minister Ghanshyam Tiwari rejoined the Bharatiya Janata Party here on Saturday, two-and-a-half years after he left the party over differences with the then Chief Minister Vasundhara Raje and the party’s central leadership. Mr. Tiwari had floated a new outfit, Bharat Vahini Party, ahead of the 2018 Rajasthan Assembly election. A six-time BJP MLA and considered a hardliner, Mr. Tiwari had extended support to the Congress after his party lost all the 63 Assembly seats it contested. He had shared dais with Congress leader Rahul Gandhi at a function in Jaipur and said it was important to support the party “for [the] protection of democratic values”. On Saturday, the 72-year-old leader, one of the founders of the BJP in the State in 1980, told reporters at the BJP State headquarters here that he had not joined Congress or become its primary member. “I simply shared the stage in a programme of the Congress before the 2019 Lok Sabha election,” he said. Mr. Tiwari said he was “completely committed” to the BJP’s ideology and his “heart and soul” were with the Bharatiya Jan Sangh and RSS. “I did not take part in the protests organised by the Congress against the Citizenship Amendment Act and abrogation of Article 370.” BJP State president Satish Poonia said Mr. Tiwari’s return to the party fold was not an exception. “Leaders like Uma Bharti, Kalyan Singh and Babulal Marandi joined back after the leaving BJP.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/ghanshyam-tiwari-returns-to-bjp/article33318342.ece
13 December 2020||Mumbai,||Political workers should remain firm on ideology: Sharad Pawar||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) president Sharad Pawar on Saturday said political workers should never compromise on their ideology, at a party function organised to mark his 80th birthday in Mumbai. The veteran politician said creating a new generation of political workers and leaders will help strengthen the State and the country in future. “It is important for political workers to be firm on their ideology. The progressive ideology of Mahatma Jyotiba Phule, Dr. B.R. Ambedkar and Chhatrapati Shahu Maharaj needs to be inculcated among the new breed of political workers,” the NCP chief said. Observing that ideology is the philosophy of life, he underlined the need to be alert and aware while doing social work. “When you take care of needs of the last person in society, you learn a lot with clarity about the direction of the road ahead. People have given me an opportunity to work for them for the last five decades,” he said. Mr. Pawar said social reformers like Mahatma Phule and Dr. Ambedkar used scientific temper while working for social upliftment of people. “It is not enough to just remember Phule, Shahu Maharaj and Dr.Ambedkar, but following their path for the welfare of the people is important.” Remembering his parents, Mr. Pawar said they had taught him not to neglect family responsibilities while doing social and political work. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray greeted Mr. Pawar on his birthday and described him as the pillar of the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government. “We hope that he continues to have the same energy and enthusiasm. We wish Sharad Pawar saheb , who is the pillar of the MVA, a senior leader and guide, good health and long life,” he said. Mr. Pawar was instrumental in the formation of the NCP-Congress combine’s unlikely tie-up with the Shiv Sena last year, after the Sena fell out with its ally BJP following the Assembly polls. Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut said Mr. Pawar’s capabilities and merit became a roadblock in his political journey. He was a former Congressman who rebelled against the party leadership and formed the NCP in 1999. On NCP leader Praful Patel’s claim that Mr. Pawar was cut out for the Prime Minister’s post, but the “Durbar [court] culture” in Delhi undermined him, Mr. Raut said, “Less meritorious people feared him and ensured he did not rise to the top.” ‘Can still become PM’ If there had been elections in the Congress, then 80% of votes would have gone to him, Mr. Raut told reporters in Nashik. “Mr. Pawar should have got the opportunity to become Prime Minister long back. Today he is 80. But he is someone for whom age is no barrier,” Mr. Raut said. On Mr. Pawar’s chances of becoming the Prime Minister, Mr. Patel had said, “Now, if entire Maharashtra stands by him, our unfinished dream can be fulfilled.” Asked about the Congress’s future, Mr. Raut said political parties cannot be wiped out, and noted that the BJP at one time had only two MPs. On speculation that Mr. Pawar may take over as UPA chairman, he said if a leader from Maharashtra became the head of the Congress-led alliance, “we would be happy”. Mr. Raut also said MVA leaders favoured contesting elections to municipal corporations and other civic bodies together, as their unity paid dividends in the recently held Legislative Council elections. On farmers’ protests against the new agriculture laws on Delhi’s borders, Mr. Raut said if the Union government were to “move two steps backwards”, it would not affect its prestige. “Bring the laws back to the discussion table in Parliament. Understand why the farmers are asking that the laws be repealed,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/political-workers-should-remain-firm-on-ideology-sharad-pawar/article33318336.ece
13 December 2020||Mumbai,||State plans to offer jobs to kin of martyred soldiers||Maharashtra Minister of State for Ex-Servicemen Welfare Satej Patil on Saturday said the State government was thinking of providing direct employment to widows and children of soldiers who lay down their lives for the country. The move will be on the lines of employment provided to the kin of police personnel killed in Naxal attacks. Mr. Patel, speaking at a meeting to discuss perks and other facilities to kin of martyred soldiers, said district collectors have been asked to allot land to the kin of ex-servicemen and a report on this should be submitted in three months. In Maharashtra, there is 5% reservation for ex-servicemen and 2% for the kin of martyrs in MHADA housing complexes, while a Government Order on October 20 earmarked 5% for children of ex-servicemen in degree and post-graduation degree colleges. Other decisions taken at the meeting include starting a website of the ex-servicemen department to resolve their issues, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/state-plans-to-offer-jobs-to-kin-of-martyred-soldiers/article33318337.ece
13 December 2020||Nagpur,||Man kills friend over affair with woman||A 25-year-old man was arrested for allegedly stabbing his friend to death on Saturday over his relationship with a woman acquaintance in Nagpur city, the police said. According to the police, the accused, Rizwan Khan, a resident of Shiv Nagar, killed his friend Kishore Nandanwar (25) in Yashodhara Nagar. The accused had introduced the victim to an acquaintance and soon they entered into a relationship, an official said. Mr. Khan objected to the relationship and had asked the couple to break it off and when they refused, he called the victim near Majri railway bridge and attacked him with a knife, he said. Case registered The victim was admitted to a hospital where he succumbed to his injuries, the official said. They added that a case of murder had been registered in this regard.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/man-kills-friend-over-love-affair/article33318533.ece
13 December 2020||Navi Mumbai,||Mathadi workers to strike tomorrow||Mathadi workers have decided to go on a State-wide strike on Monday to protest the non-fulfilment of their demands. The strike is likely to affect the supply of vegetables and fruits in Navi Mumbai, Nashik, Pune, Ahmednagar, Kolhapur and other parts of the State. The demands of the workers include reformation of Mathadi boards, providing employment to their children, and considering them as essential services and providing them with passes to travel on trains. Narendra Patil, former MLA and general secretary of Maharashtra State Mathadi Transport and General Workers Union, said, “The Central government is not serious about the issues of Mathadi workers. We were working even during the pandemic. Our five important leaders along with many other workers succumbed to COVID-19. We want the government to provide their families with monetary help.” Mr. Patil added the State should consider them as part of essential services. “The government has not shown any willingness to provide us with financial assistance and declare us as corona warriors,” he said. Mr. Patil said the protest has been organised to remind the government about their pending demands. In the last 15 years, no appointments have been made to the Mathadi Board and Advisory Committee, he said. Mathadi leader Shashikant Shinde said, “If a meeting with the government is not arranged soon, then we will intensify our protest. The previous government did not do anything for us, I believe the current State government will hear us out.”  If a meeting with the Maharashtra government is not arranged soon, then we will intensify our protest Shashikant Shinde Mathadi leader||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/mathadi-workers-to-strike-tomorrow/article33318532.ece
13 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Govt. is trying to dilute farmers’ protest’||The government wants to divide us and put an end to the protest at any cost, said farmer leaders and protesters at the Singhu border after Union Minister Piyush Goyal said that ‘Leftists and Maoists have infiltrated the farmers protest’. Avtar Singh Mehma, State press secretary of Krantikari Kisan Union Punjab, said that demand for public intellectuals, students, and activists who have been imprisoned for speaking ‘for the greater good of the nation’ has been on the list of demands since the very beginning of the protest, months ago. ‘Nothing new’ “This is nothing new we are demanding in the posters that show a few imprisoned activists. They [government] are bringing it up now because their tagging us as Khalistanis didn’t work,” he said, adding that the jailed intellectuals and activists have only spoken for their rights and didn’t indulge in any violence. Hence, their imprisonment is wrong. According to Mr. Avtar, calling protesters Leftists or Maoists is the government’s way of dividing them. “They call Punjabis as Khalistanis, students as Urban Naxals and Maoists. The government is basically rattled right now. Instead or listening to us, they are indulging in mudslinging,” he said. Baldev Singh Zeera, State general secretary of Bharat Kisan Union Krantikari, said that the farmers started the agitation. “They called us Khalistani and now as we are proceeding and farmers from Haryana has also joined us, their theory fell flat. Now, they’ve begun using words like Maoists for us”. Activists’ release He said that the demand of activists’ release has been there since the beginning, but at that time, no one called them Leftists or Maoists. “They’re not able to get what they want. With the protest only strengthening, they are finding ways to crack us up. Now, they’ve changed our tag from Khalistani to Maoists,” he said. Harjeet Ravi, State secretary of Kisan Sangharsh Committee, said that they’re all farmers and talking about farming only. “We are not asking for separate farming, separate State or separate language. All we want is for the laws to be repealed,” he said. However, a protesting farmer who identified himself as Harinder Singh Mann Singh from Ludhiana distanced himself from the demand for the release of imprisoned activists and said, “We are here only for the roll back of farm laws. There are so many people here and one can’t control what people say,” he said. Another protester who identified himself as Devi Singh (26) from Uttar Pradesh’s Shamli said that name-calling and tagging is an old trick of the government. “If Hindus protest, they’re called Communists, if Muslims protest, they’re called Pakistanis,” he said.  They’re [Central government] not able to get what they want. With the protest only strengthening, they are finding ways to crack us up. Now, they’ve changed our tag from Khalistani to Maoists  Baldev Singh Zeera  State general secretary of Bharat Kisan Union Krantikari||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/govt-is-trying-to-dilute-farmers-protest/article33318329.ece
13 December 2020||New Delhi,||Rain brings down maximum temperature||Light to moderate rains in parts of Delhi brought the maximum temperature down by a notch on Saturday, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD). However, the cloud cover led to an increase in the minimum temperature that settled at 14.4 degrees Celsius, six notches above normal. The Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative data for the city, recorded a maximum temperature of 21.8 degrees Celsius and 1.6 mm rainfall, the IMD said. Thunderstorms and light to moderate-intensity rains occurred over South Delhi, New Delhi, Lodhi Road, Central Delhi, North-East Delhi and East Delhi. Southwest Delhi, Dwarka, IGI Airport, Narela, North Delhi and neighbouring areas also witnessed light rainfall, the IMD said. The rains are a result of a western disturbance passing over the Himalayas, an IMD official said, adding that the mercury is expected to drop by Monday with the wind direction changing to northwesterly. These winds blow from the snow-laden western Himalayas towards the plains. An increase in the moisture content in the air due to the rain is likely to result in moderate to dense fog over the next two-three days, the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/rain-brings-down-maximum-temperature/article33318323.ece
13 December 2020||New Delhi,||Air quality likely to remain in ‘very poor’ category today||The air quality of Delhi and Noida deteriorated to the higher end of the ‘very poor’ category on Saturday and Gurugram’s was close to ‘very poor’ category, according to the Central Pollution Control Board (Central Pollution Control Board). Air quality of the national capital is expected to deteriorate and remain in ‘very poor’ category on Sunday. “As an aftermath of western disturbance, high moisture availability with higher air-holding capacity, dense fog formation is expected [mainly during early morning hours]. This can trigger heterogeneous aqueous reactions to form secondary aerosols, which can lead to deterioration of AQI. The AQI is likely to deteriorate to the higher end of ‘very poor’ category by late Sunday. ‘Very poor’ category is forecast for Monday and Tuesday,” said a statement by the government-run monitoring agency System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR). The AQI of Delhi was 356 on Saturday, up from 295 on Friday, as per CPCB’s 4 p.m. bulletin, which is an average of the past 24 hours. The values for Gurugram and Noida were 296 and 393 respectively.  The effect of stubble burning on the city’s air quality was negligible on Saturday. However, the local surface-level winds were calm, which does not help in the dispersion of pollutants. Also, the mixing height, which is the height from the ground level up to which pollutants can be dispersed, was low at night. This also prevents pollutants from getting dispersed easily.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/air-quality-likely-to-remain-in-very-poor-category-today/article33318333.ece
13 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Out of work since lockdown, 4 get hired||Sudhir Das, Anoop Kumar, Sunny and Adit Kumar were out of work for the entire lockdown period and thereafter, till a few days ago. However, at the protest site at the Singhu border, they’ve been employed. The four labourers, from Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, who reside in a rented accommodation in Narela have found work at Rs. 3,000 a day at one of the many langar services at the protest site. They come in around noon, set up a tandoor for rotis and leave around 8 p.m. It was their second day on Saturday. “We were out of work because we operate tandoors and weddings were not happening. Thankfully, we got this opportunity,” said Sudhir. The four of them get Rs. 3,000 a day out of which they pay Rs. 1,000 as rent for tandoor and divide Rs. 500 each amongst themselves. Money for commute “They also give us a money for commute,” he said. The langar service where the labourers have been fired is being run by Baba Amreek Singh (from Patiala) and serves hundreds of people multiple meals through the day. “We need the tandoor because we haven’t brought it with us from Punjab and we want to give people hot rotis. At night, the number of people who eat increases and tandoori rotis make less time to make,” said Kuldeep Singh alias Baba Kala who is one of the managers at the service. The four labourers also eat the meals here at the service and take food home, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/out-of-work-since-lockdown-4-get-hired/article33318327.ece
13 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||College student arrested for kidnapping minor girl||An 18-year-old college student was arrested for allegedly kidnapping a minor girl from Delhi after befriending her on Facebook and subsequently luring her to marry him, the police said on Saturday. DCP (West) Deepak Purohit said that the accused has been identified as Shoyab Khan, who’s pursuing Bachelors in Pharmacy from a college at his hometown in Rajasthan’s Alwar. He was arrested from Badarpur border on December 9 and the kidnapped girl was also rescued, he said. The police said that a probe was initiated into the matter after the girl’s father approached police at Rajouri Garden station on October 23 stating that his 15-year-old daughter was kidnapped by an unknown person. During investigation, call detail records and the girl’s social media accounts including Facebook, Messenger and WhatsApp were scrutinised. It was then revealed that the victim received several messages from a particular Facebook account of a person named Shoyab Khan and the location of the alleged account was found to be active in Mewat region. Raids conducted A team went to Mewat to conduct raids and a police official also disguised himself as a local to gather whereabouts. The accused, however, was arrested from near Badarpur. The police said that Shoyab — after kidnapping the girl from Delhi — took her to various States, including Azamgarh in Uttar Pradesh and Muzaffarpur in Bihar but later he left her alone in an autorickshaw at Badarpur Border and fled away. During interrogation, accused allegedly reveled that he created a facebook account and had 4,845 friends on his list. Khan further disclosed that he sent a friend request to the victim, which she accepted last year on July 5 . Later on, they both became good friends and started chatting frequently. Khan started forcing her to get married to him, he added. On October 22 this year, Khan came to Delhi and forced victim to get married with him. He took her to Muzaffarpur in Bihar where they stayed for one day at his friend’s place and next day, they moved to Azamgarh, Uttar Pradesh, the DCP said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/college-student-arrested-for-kidnapping-minor-girl/article33318331.ece
13 December 2020||New Delhi,||Muslim leaders come out in support||The Jamaat-e-Islami Hind (JIH) on Saturday extended its support to the ongoing farmers’ protest against the three newly elected agriculture-related legislations, and alleged the country’s farming laws are being changed to favour multinationals and corporates. The JIH supports the ongoing protest by farmers against the new farm laws enacted by the Centre, the Islamic body’s vice- president Mohammad Saleem Engineer said. The three laws concerning contract farming and essential items were passed “hastily” without consultation, and by “bypassing” the parliamentary norm, he charged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/muslim-leaders-come-out-in-support/article33318330.ece
13 December 2020||New Delhi,||Maintain vigil against plastic burning and utilise fine for legitimate purposes: NGT||Following a plea seeking action against industrial units operating in violation of norms laid down in the MPD-2021, the NGT has directed authorities to maintain a vigil against plastic burning and utilise the funds recovered from violators for legitimate purposes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/maintain-vigil-against-plastic-burning-and-utilise-fine-for-legitimate-purposes-ngt/article33318332.ece
13 December 2020||Washington,||SC rejects Trump-backed poll lawsuit||The Supreme Court has rejected a lawsuit backed by President Donald Trump to overturn Joe Biden’s election victory, ending a desperate attempt to get legal issues rejected by State and federal judges before the nation’s highest court and subvert the will of voters. Mr. Trump bemoaned the decision late Friday, tweeting- “The Supreme Court really let us down. No Wisdom, No Courage!” ‘No wisdom, no courage’ The high court’s order earlier Friday was a stark repudiation of a legal claim that was widely regarded as dubious, yet embraced by the president, 19 Republican state attorneys general and 126 House Republicans. Mr. Trump had insisted the court would find the “wisdom” and “courage” to adopt his baseless position that the election was the product of widespread fraud and should be overturned. But the nation’s highest court emphatically disagreed. Friday’s order marked the second time this week that the court had rebuffed Republican requests that it get involved in the 2020 election outcome and reject the voters’ choice, as expressed in an election regarded by both Republican and Democratic officials as free and fair. The justices turned away an appeal from Pennsylvania Republicans on Tuesday. On Monday, the Electoral College meets to formally elect Mr. Biden as the next President. Mr. Trump had called the lawsuit filed by Texas against Georgia, Michigan, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin “the big one” that would end with the Supreme Court undoing Biden’s substantial Electoral College majority and allowing Mr. Trump to serve another four years in the White House. In a brief order, the court said Texas does not have the legal right to sue those States because it “has not demonstrated a judicially cognisable interest in the manner in which another State conducts its elections.” Justices Samuel Alito and Clarence Thomas, who have said previously the court does not have the authority to turn away lawsuits between States, said they would have heard Texas’ complaint. But they would not have done as Texas wanted — setting aside those four States’ 62 electoral votes for Mr. Biden — pending resolution of the lawsuit. Mr. Trump complained that “within a flash,” the lawsuit was “thrown out and gone, without even looking at the many reasons it was brought. A Rigged Election, fight on!” No dissent note Three Trump appointees sit on the High Court. In his push to get the most recent of his nominees, Justice Amy Coney Barrett, confirmed quickly, Mr. Trump said she would be needed for any post-election lawsuits. Ms. Barrett appears to have participated in both cases this week. None of the Trump appointees noted a dissent in either case. The four States sued by Texas had urged the court to reject the case as meritless. They were backed by another 22 States and the District of Columbia.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/sc-rejects-trump-backed-poll-lawsuit/article33318039.ece
13 December 2020||London,||U.K. Navy to protect fishing if Brexit talks fail||Britain on Saturday readied armed Royal Navy ships to patrol its fishing waters if tempers flare after a “no-deal” Brexit as a make-or-break deadline approached for talks with the European Union. Four 80-metre vessels have been placed on standby to guard British waters from EU trawlers in case the two sides decide to abandon efforts to secure a free-trade agreement on Sunday. The development is part of increased contingency planning on both sides of the Channel, and evokes memories of the “Cod Wars” with Iceland over fishing rights in the North Atlantic in the 1960s and 70s. Prime Minister Boris Johnson has said it is “very, very likely” the talks will fail, and Britain will revert to World Trade Organization (WTO) terms with its largest single trading partner. European leaders have also been told the chances of a deal are slim with both sides at loggerheads over rules to govern fair competition and fishing rights in British territorial waters. Deal or no deal, Britain will leave the EU single market and customs union on the evening of December 31, more than four years after a landmark referendum on membership of the bloc. ‘Robust enforcement’ Hardline Brexit-supporting Conservative MPs have sought assurances from Mr. Johnson that the Navy should be deployed to protect British waters. The Ministry of Defence confirmed it has conducted “extensive planning and preparation” for a range of post-Brexit scenarios from January 1, and has 14,000 personnel on standby to help with the transition. The four boats would be part of a “robust enforcement measures”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/uk-navy-to-protect-fishing-if-brexit-talks-fail/article33318042.ece
13 December 2020||December 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Western Sahara on edge after Israel-Morocco deal||Morocco has become the fourth Arab country to normalise ties with Israel in five months. On December 10, U.S. President Donald Trump announced the deal, claiming that the series of normalisation agreements between Arab countries (the UAE, Bahrain, Sudan and now Morocco) and the Jewish state was bringing peace to West Asia. In return for Morocco’s decision to establish formal ties with Israel, the U.S. has recognised Rabat’s sovereignty over Western Sahara, a disputed territory in northwestern Africa, which has been under Moroccan control for decades. Morocco has long been campaigning internationally, using economic pressure and diplomacy, for recognition of its claims to Western Sahara. It got what it wanted from the deal with Israel, a country with which it had developed covert ties for decades. The dispute This large, arid and sparsely populated region that shares borders with Morocco, Algeria and Mauritania and has a long Atlantic coast was a Spanish colony. The region is home to the Sahrawi tribe. In the 1970s, when international and local pressure mounted on Spain to vacate its colonies in Africa, Libya and Algeria helped found a Sahrawi insurgency group against the Spanish rule in Western Sahara. The Popular Front for the Liberation of Saguia el Hamra and Rio de Oro, known as the Polisario Front, started guerilla warfare against Spanish colonialists. In 1975, as part of the Madrid Accords with Morocco and Mauritania, Spain decided to leave the territory, which was then called Spanish Sahara. According to the accords, Spain would leave before February 28, 1976 and until then, the Spanish Governor General would administer the territory, with help from two Moroccan and Mauritanian Deputy Governors. The Polisario Front and Algeria opposed the agreements. Both Morocco and Mauritania moved troops to Western Sahara to assert their claims. Polisario, backed by Algeria, continued the guerilla resistance, demanding their withdrawal. On February 27, 1976, a day before Spain ended its presence, the Polisario Front declared the Sahrawi Arab Democratic Republic (SADR) in Western Sahara. The SADR has been recognised by several African countries and is a member of the African Union. Morocco’s claim Morocco and Mauritania had laid claims to Western Sahara even when it was a Spanish colony. In 1974, the International Court of Justice was asked by the UN General Assembly to look into the legal ties, if any, that existed between Western Sahara and Morocco and Mauritania at the time of its colonisation by Spain in the 19th century. The court found no evidence “of any ties of territorial sovereignty” between the Western Sahara and either Morocco or Mauritania, but stated that there were “indications” that some tribes in the territory were loyal to the Moroccan Sultan. In its conclusion, the court endorsed the General Assembly Resolution 1541 that affirmed that to ensure decolonisation, complete compliance with the principle of self-determination is required. But King Hassan II of Morocco hailed the court’s opinion as a vindication of Rabat’s claims and moved troops across the northern border to Western Sahara. Mauritania joined in later. It set the stage for a three-way fight with the Polisario Front resisting both countries. Current status The three-way conflict lasted for almost four years. In August 1979, Mauritania signed a peace treaty with Polisario, bringing the country’s military involvement in Western Sahara to an end. When Mauritanian forces withdrew from the southern part of the desert that they had occupied, Morocco swiftly advanced troops. The war continued between Moroccan troops and the Polisario Front. In 1991, when a ceasefire was finally achieved, upon the promise of holding an independence referendum in Western Sahara, Morocco had taken control of about 80% of the territory. The war had forced almost 200,000 Sahrawis to flee the territory to neighbouring Algeria, where Polisario is running squalid refugee camps. The SADR is operating largely from the eastern flank of Western Sahara. Moroccan troops have built a huge sand wall called Berm, from the Atlantic coast to the mountains of Morocco, dividing the territories they control from that of Polisario. “It’s Africa’s last colony”, according to Polisario fighters. Impact of the deal The normalisation deal between Morocco and Israel itself will not have any direct bearing on Western Sahara. But the concession the U.S. has given to Morocco — Washington’s recognition of Moroccan occupation of Western Sahara — could flare up the conflict. The independence referendum, promised in the 1991 ceasefire, is yet to take place. Last month, Morocco launched an offensive into the UN-controlled buffer zone between the two sides, and in return, Polisario said it would resume armed conflict. After the Trump administration’s recognition of Morocco’s claim, Polisario said it would continue fighting until Moroccan troops are forced to withdraw. The U.S. move would upset Algeria, the biggest backer of Polisario. Among the countries that condemned the U.S. decision is Russia, which said the recognition of Moroccan sovereignty over Western Sahara “is a violation of international law”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/western-sahara-on-edge-after-israel-morocco-deal/article33318041.ece
13 December 2020||London,||UN chief urges global summit to declare ‘climate emergency’||UN chief Antonio Guterres on Saturday urged world leaders to declare a “state of climate emergency” and shape greener growth after the coronavirus pandemic, as he opened a summit marking five years since the landmark Paris Agreement. The Climate Ambition Summit, being held online, comes as the United Nations warns current commitments to tackle rises in global temperatures are inadequate. The commitments made in Paris in 2015 were “far from enough” to limit temperature rises to 1.5 degrees Celsius, the UN secretary-general said in his opening address to the summit, which is co-hosted by Britain and France. “If we don’t change course, we may be headed for a catastrophic temperature rise of more than 3.0 degrees this century,” he said. “That is why today, I call on all leaders worldwide to declare a State of Climate Emergency in their countries until carbon neutrality is reached,” he added, arguing the recovery from COVID-19 presented a rare opportunity to recalibrate growth.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/un-chief-urges-global-summit-to-declare-climate-emergency/article33318043.ece
13 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Israel and Bhutan establish diplomatic ties||Bhutan and Israel established formal ties on Saturday, with a formal ceremony in New Delhi where the Ambassadors of both countries to India exchanged agreements. The move follows a flurry of diplomatic activity in both countries in the past few weeks. In deals brokered by the United States, Israel has established full relations with the United Arab Emirates(UAE), Bahrain, Sudan and Morocco in the last two months, while Bhutan established ties with Germany, its first new formal relationship since 2013. With the announcement, Bhutan, which does not have ties with any permanent UNSC member, has taken the restricted number of diplomatic relations to 54 countries and the European Union. “The establishment of diplomatic relations would not only build upon the existing close ties but open the path to greater cooperation and further strengthen relations between the two countries and peoples,” said a joint statement, adding that Notes Verbale were exchanged between Bhutanese Ambassador Major General Vetsop Namgyel and Israeli Ambassador Ron Malika. ‘Secret contacts’ “The circle of those who recognise Israel is growing... This is a milestone in Israel’s deepening ties with Asia,” tweeted Israeli Foreign Minister Gabi Ashkenazi. Mr. Ashkenazi said the decision to establish ties had been made after years of “secret contacts” and finalised during a call between him and Bhutanese Foreign Minister Tandi Dorji a week before. The two sides will not be setting up embassies in Thimphu and Tel Aviv however, and will coordinate through their missions in Delhi. While Israel and Bhutan have not had formal ties, the two sides cooperate on development activities and agricultural training. Israel’s Agency for International Development Cooperation (MASHAV) has trained hundred of Bhutanese youth since 2013.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/israel-and-bhutan-establish-diplomatic-ties/article33318112.ece
13 December 2020||Washington,||U.S. approves Pfizer vaccine as millions of doses begin shipping||The U.S. green lighted the Pfizer-BioNTech COVID-19 vaccine late on Friday, paving the way for millions of vulnerable people to receive their shots in the world’s hardest-hit country. President Donald Trump immediately released a video on Twitter, where he hailed the news as a “medical miracle” and said the first immunizations would take place “in less than 24 hours.” It comes as infections across America soar as never before, with the grim milestone of 3,00,000 confirmed deaths fast approaching. The U.S. is now the sixth country to approve the two-dose regimen, after Britain, Bahrain, Canada, Saudi Arabia and Mexico. The move came earlier than expected, and capped a day of drama after it was reported that the White House had threatened to fire Food and Drug Administration chief Stephen Hahn if he did not grant emergency approval on Friday. Mr. Trump’s intervention reinserts politics into the scientific process, which some experts have said could undermine vaccine confidence. The U.S. is seeking to inoculate 20 million people this month alone, with long-term care facility residents and health care workers at the front of the line. The government also said on Friday that it is buying 100 million more doses of the Moderna vaccine candidate, amid reports the government passed on the opportunity to secure more supply of the Pfizer jab. Following Britain’s lead, the first vaccine shipments to 14 sites across Canada are scheduled to arrive Monday with people receiving shots a day or two later. Israel, which accepted its first shipment of the Pfizer vaccine on Wednesday, is targeting a rollout on December 27.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-approves-pfizer-vaccine-as-millions-of-doses-begin-shipping/article33318044.ece
13 December 2020||New York,||Several injured as car hits BLM protesters in U.S.||A motorist struck about half a dozen people taking part in a protest in New York City on Friday, causing injuries but no deaths, police and eyewitnesses said. New York Police Department told AFP that the vehicle hit “multiple” people in Manhattan’s Murray Hill area at 4:08 p.m. “An unknown number of people have been injured. They have been taken to various hospitals. It is not thought that any of the injuries are life-threatening,” he said. The spokesman added that the driver, a woman, had stayed at the scene and was in custody. Local media reported that the protest had been a Black Lives Matter demonstration. ABC News said between 40 and 50 protesters were in the area at the time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/several-injured-as-car-hits-blm-protesters-in-us/article33318038.ece
13 December 2020||Los Angeles,||Los Angeles, Dec 11, 2020 (AFP) -||A team of cryptography enthusiasts on Friday announced they had cracked one of the coded messages sent over 50 years ago by the “Zodiac Killer,” who terrorised northern California in the late 1960s and remains unidentified. The message was sent in November 1969 to the San Francisco Chronicle newspaper by the alleged serial killer, its code consisting of cryptic letters and symbols.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/los-angeles-dec-11-2020-afp/article33318037.ece
13 December 2020||KABUL,||Islamic State group hits Afghan capital, airport; 1 dead||The Islamic State group on Saturday attacked the Afghan capital with a barrage of mortar shells, killing at least one civilian and wounding a second, according to the Interior Ministry. The group claimed responsibility on Amaq News site, saying it fired 10 rockets toward Hamid Karzai International Airport. A Kam Air aircraft was slightly damaged.AP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/islamic-state-group-hits-afghan-capital-airport-1-dead/article33318046.ece
13 December 2020||New Delhi,||Centre working on framework for widening credit push: Kant||Niti Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant on Saturday said that India’s private credit-to-GDP ratio was the lowest among its global peers and that the government was in the process of putting in place a framework for a credit push towards untapped segments. Addressing a virtual event organised by the Global Alliance for Mass Entrepreneurship (GAME), Mr. Kant said that the credit scenario in India in recent years, for a greater part, had been seen as a drag on the economy. “India’s private credit-to-GDP is the lowest among its global peers. Countries such as China and South Korea have had tremendous growth, massive improvement in their living standard on the back of high leverage. “Even Vietnam’s recent development has been partially a result of growth in its private debt,” he said. Mr. Kant also said micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) play a crucial role in providing employment but their credit needs are largely unmet by the formal financial sector. “The government is in the process of putting frameworks and protocols in place for credit to be pushed to segments that have largely been untapped,” he said. ‘Flexible regulation’ Noting that financial inclusion depended on the regulatory environment, Mr. Kant said, “While a new business model will be required to fill the current gap in achieving the necessary credit flow, there is a need to change the regulation as and when required.” The entire process would require bringing all stakeholders such as banking and industry professionals, together, he added. MSME needs Mr. Kant said the MSME sector would have more credit needs going forward. So, more innovative methods would be key. He said the sector’s credit gap was estimated to be Rs. 25 lakh crore. Mr. Kant said the financial sector was undergoing a massive change and there had been a dramatic change in the credit scenario also. “Over the past few years, there has been a flood of fintech (financial technology) players, which are bringing transformational change in the way financial services are provided,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/centre-working-on-framework-for-widening-credit-push-kant/article33318024.ece
13 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘India needs data, taxation norms to tap opportunities’||Tata Sons Chairman N. Chandrasekaran on Saturday said he saw “limitless opportunities” for India, but added that the government needed to establish regulatory standards on data and taxation, while the industry had to think of projects on a bigger scale to capitalise on the chances that would come in a post-COVID world. Addressing the FICCI AGM, Mr. Chandrasekaran noted that India’s GDP would likely grow at 11% in fiscal 2022, after a significant contraction this year. “While this rebound looks spectacular, we all recognise it is coming on the back of a real loss of output, which means we will need to not only recover, but accelerate. And I believe, given the opportunities and the trends that we see, we can definitely achieve this and much higher levels of growth.” Highlighting trends such as digital and data, rush towards renewables and decoupling of the U.S. and China, Mr. Chandrasekaran said he saw limitless opportunities for India in these trends.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/india-needs-data-taxation-norms-to-tap-opportunities/article33318020.ece
13 December 2020||December 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Alstom’s India unit keeps metro trains across the globe rolling||Alstom recently completed the manufacture of the 500th metro train car from its facility in Sri City, Andhra Pradesh. To boost output, Alstom has doubled its production plans in India to 480 metro train cars per annum, said Alain Spohr , managing director, India & South Asia. Edited excerpts:  Tell us about your Indian journey? Our manufacturing journey in India started with the Chennai Metro order in 2010. This led to the setting up of a state-of-the-art rolling stock manufacturing facility in Sri City in November 2013. Since its inception, Alstom has been catering not just to the domestic [market], but also international projects such as metro rail for Sydney and Montreal. As of 2019, Alstom had successfully delivered 420 metro train sets to some of India’s major cities such as Chennai, Lucknow and Kochi. The company employs 600 people at Sri City. Are you back to pre-COVID levels in terms of production? Yes, I’m happy to share that we are back to the pre-COVID levels of production across all our manufacturing facilities. With Unlock 1.0, our teams persevered to restart with an undeterred spirit, following all necessary permissions and keeping safety as a priority by adhering to government protocols. Having reached the pre-COVID levels, what are your production plans ? Our Sri City facility is a ‘factory of the future’, fuelling our metro journey. It can build at least four variants of metro train sets simultaneously. With the growing demand, we have doubled the capacity of this factory to manufacture 40 cars per month or 480 cars per annum, making it one of the largest in the country for metro train manufacturing. Additionally, our expansion plans are also progressing as per schedule. For example, we have commenced work on building a new site for components manufacturing in Coimbatore. The current site operations will be moved into the new premises which is expected to be operational in the first quarter of next year. Your export strategy? India is a very credible market for engineering and manufacturing. Alstom, in India, not only caters to domestic needs but also delivers engineering, components and fully built train sets for various countries across the globe. Our Coimbatore facility for rolling stock components, which specialises in designing, manufacturing and testing traction and electrical components, also exports to many countries including France, Belgium, Italy and Poland. What is the order book position? Alstom has established a strong presence in India and is proud to be part of Indian Railway’s modernisation efforts. This year, Alstom has started deliveries of the 12,000 HP WAG-12 electric locomotives to Indian Railways. As per plan, we will deliver 75 units in FY 20/21. Starting next fiscal, we will deliver 100 units annually. Other than the ambitious electric locomotive project, we are also executing electrification, signalling and telecommunications systems for over 343 km along the Eastern phase of the ambitious Dedicated Freight Corridor. In line with the Centre’s Make-in-India initiative, we have been investing heavily in the country to produce rolling stock and components and delivering engineering services to various global sites. The ongoing projects are: rolling stocks for Mumbai Metro Line 3; infrastructure projects for Mumbai, Pune, Bengaluru and Jaipur; and signalling projects for Mumbai, Pune and Jaipur. What was the feedback from Sydney Metro about the Indian-made cars? Sydney Metro’s Northwest line was our first export order for rolling stock manufactured at Sri City and a follow-up order from Sydney for their new lines is a testimony to the confidence that global customers have in Alstom’s India manufacturing capabilities. Having clocked more than 5.7 million kilometres until October 2020, Sydney Metro has been successfully running without any major breakdowns.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/alstoms-india-unit-keeps-metro-trains-across-the-globe-rolling/article33318018.ece
13 December 2020||New Delhi,||‘Find Swadeshi alternatives to imports’||Asserting that India was importing ‘a lot of things’ from China, Union Minister Nitin Gadkari on Saturday urged the domestic industry to come up with Swadeshi alternatives to the imports from various nations without compromising with their quality and cost. Addressing the annual meeting of FICCI virtually, the Minister for MSME and Road Transport highlighted the need to reduce imports and increase exports. He said this could help enhance economic growth and boost the contribution of domestic manufacturing to the GDP to up to 30%. Citing the example of magnets used in electric vehicles, Mr. Gadkari asked industry experts to study which parts were being imported by India. “Now the magnet, there are a lot of things we are importing from China. I am not a businessman or a business expert, but I am seeing a huge potential for electric cars, e-bikes, electric autorickshaws and even electric trucks,” the Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/find-swadeshi-alternatives-to-imports/article33318022.ece
13 December 2020||New Delhi,||SBI prefers co-origination lending to MSMEs: Khara||The State Bank of India (SBI) will prefer the co-origination model to cater to the financing needs of MSMEs and collaboration with fintechs is a good idea as it helps in assessing the risk profile of the borrower in a better manner, chairman Dinesh Kumar Khara said on Saturday. Pointing out that the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) were constrained today in terms of cash flows, time gap in realising receivables, among others, and also the level of lenders’ confidence in funding them, Mr. Khara said collaborating was a better model than lending directly to MSMEs. “The fact of the matter is that today not many NBFCs have come in this space,” Mr. Khara said. ‘“And of late, when it comes to finding solutions, we feel that apart from lending directly to the MSMEs, there is a way forward in terms of collaborating with these NBFCs along with the biggest fintechs who have the ability to process the structured and unstructured [financial] data to have a better sense in terms of assessment of risk,” he added. Based on that assessment, Mr. Khara said, bankers felt very comfortable in lending to the MSMEs. Mr. Khara was speaking at a webinar on ‘financing the unfinanced’, organised by the Global Alliance for Mass Entrepreneurship (GAME). “There could also be another option of financing based on the cash flow and not on the basis of balance sheet because very often it is observed that the balance sheet and the financial statement are not available in a form which is expected by any banker,” he added. Also, there was a broad spectrum of MSMEs in the country that worked in a host of areas and often the kind of financial information coming from them was not very organised, the chairman explained. ‘Fully organised data’ “So, to the extent where the data is fully organised, which is more like any other large corporate, it is the kind of spectrum which SBI is engaging with,” he said. “So, for different levels of maturity of MSMEs, the comfort level with the bank also differs,” he said. “If at all they are part of the ecosystem for a large industry major, it becomes all the more easier for the banks to get the information structured vis-a-vis unstructured relating to the [financial] dealings [of the borrower]. “And those who are essentially in the nano category, may be say up to Rs. 2 crore or so [turnover], there we actually tend to leverage upon various fintechs who are engaging with these MSMEs. So, we would rather collaborate with such fintechs and do the co-origination model [of lending],” Mr. Khara said. He further said that SBI was looking at this kind of a spectrum in financing the small businesses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/sbi-prefers-co-origination-lending-to-msmes-khara/article33318027.ece
13 December 2020||MUMBAI,||Subramanian, Ratho, Jain made RBI EDs||The Reserve Bank of India has appointed three of its senior officials R. Subramanian, R.S. Ratho and Rohit Jain as executive directors with effect from December 11. Mr. Subramanian, who was Chief General Manager-in-Charge, Enforcement Department, will oversee the key departments of Foreign Exchange, Financial Markets Regulation, Internal Debt Management and International, the RBI said in a release. Mr. Ratho, who was CGM Financial Markets Operations, will look after the same department as well as External Investments and Operations, Legal and Secretary’s Department. Mr. Jain will oversee Supervision (Risk, Analytics and Vulnerability Assessment) after having been CGM-in-charge, Supervision.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/subramanian-ratho-jain-made-rbi-eds/article33318016.ece
13 December 2020||New Delhi,||FinMin okays Rs. 9,879-crore capex plans||The Finance Ministry on Saturday said it had approved Rs. 9,879.61 crore worth of capital expenditure proposals of 27 States. Of this, Rs. 4,939.81 crore has been released as the first instalment. In a statement, the ministry said that all States, except Tamil Nadu, had availed benefits of the newly announced scheme for ‘Special Assistance to States for Capital Expenditure’. “So far, capital expenditure proposals of Rs. 9,879.61 crore of 27 states have been approved by the Ministry of Finance,” the ministry said. “An amount of Rs. 4,939.81 crore has already been released to the states as the first instalment under the scheme,” it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/finmin-okays-rs-9879-crore-capex-plans/article33318021.ece
13 December 2020||December 13 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Pandemic accelerated digitisation’||The National Payments Corporation of India (NPCI) said on Saturday that the pandemic had increased the momentum of digitisation in the country. Chief Operating Officer (COO) of NPCI Praveena Rai said that the pace of digitisation had also increased due to the regulatory framework and policies of the government and RBI. Digitisation has cut across all sections of society, Ms. Rai said at a seminar organised by XLRI. “Digitisation has revolutionised every single aspect of life and onboarding has risen substantially. There has been gradual migration from cash to digital payments both offline and online,” she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/pandemic-accelerated-digitisation/article33318025.ece
13 December 2020||New Delhi,||‘5% growth as nations turn inward will be big for India’||Morgan Stanley Chief Global Strategist Ruchir Sharma on Saturday said if the Indian economy grows at 5% in the era of deglobalisation, then it will be a significant achievement. Addressing the FICCI annual convention, Mr. Sharma further said India hastily passed agriculture and labour reforms during the COVID-19 pandemic. Mr. Sharma said it was no longer feasible in the world of deglobalisation to grow at 7% as exports could not grow at 20% or 30% in a year, which was good in an era of globalisation. “So, for an economy like India’s, growth rate of 5% will be pretty credible even in this era where I think emerging economies in general will make some sort of a comeback.” Mr. Sharma pointed out that there were about 100 economies that were growing at 7% or more in 2007. “That has never happened in the history of the global economy. In the last decade, only 10 economies ... have grown 7% or more in any year,” he said. Population growth link Mr. Sharma also argued that if the population growth of a country was slowing, then that country could not grow at the same pace as it did in the past. He also pointed out that intra-regional trade was the lowest in South Asia compared to any sub-region of the world. “The last decade was a lost decade for emerging economies. The only economy to have gained in the global share in the last decade was China,” he noted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/5-growth-as-nations-turn-inward-will-be-big-for-india/article33318028.ece
13 December 2020||Sydney,||Vihari, Pant stake claim with hundreds||Rishabh Pant and Hanuma Vihari put themselves in the reckoning for next week’s first Test with contrasting hundreds as the Indians thoroughly dominated Australia-A in the pink ball warm-up match here on Saturday. Expensive over Needing 19 runs to reach his century when Jack Wildermuth commenced the second evening’s final over, Pant clobbered him for 4, 4, 6, 4, 4, to remain unbeaten on a blistering 103 off only 73 balls. Overall, he hit nine fours and six sixes. At the other end, Vihari worked his way to a fine 104-run knock off 194 balls. Shubman impresses Also staking a claim for selection is young Shubman Gill, with an elegant 65 off 78 balls and 10 sweetly-timed boundaries. In the final session of play, Pant’s aggressive approach paid dividends as he smashed the Australia-A bowlers to all corners of the Sydney Cricket Ground, the southpaw making a strong case to be considered for the wicketkeeper’s job in Adelaide ahead of Test specialist Wriddhiman Saha. To cite an example of his power-hitting, Pant swept one over the cow-corner for a six, leaving Nic Maddinson to search for the ball among the rows of chairs at the SCG. At the close of play, the Indians were strongly placed at 386 for four for an overall lead by 472 runs, having bundled out the hosts for a paltry 108 in their first innings on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/vihari-pant-stake-claim-with-hundreds/article33318157.ece
13 December 2020||Hyderabad:,||Pontius Pilate vs Prince Valiant||Pontius Pilate and Prince Valiant should fight out the finish of the Silver Dagger Plate (Div.I), the feature event of Sunday’s (Dec. 13) afternoon races.  BLUE BIRD PLATE (1,200m) (Terms) Maiden, 2-y-o only (Cat.II) — 1.15 p.m.: 1. Akido (8) Nakhat Singh 56, 2. Ambitious Star (9) B.R. Kumar 56, 3. Costello (3) A.A. Vikrant 56, 4. Dream Jewel (10) Koushik 56, 5. Fire Power (5) P. Trevor 56, 6. Horse O’War (13) Mukesh Kumar 56, 7. Paladino (2) Arshad Alam 56, 8. Pedro Planet (11) Afroz Khan 56, 9. Siyavash (6) Ashad Asbar 56, 10. Stunning Force (1) Md. Ismail 56, 11. Unsung Hero (12) Irvan Singh 56, 12. Georgia Peach (4) Akshay Kumar 54.5 and 13. Spectacular Cruise (7) Antony Raj S 54.5.  1. AKIDO, 2. FIRE POWER, 3. COSTELLO   WINDSCALE PLATE (Div.II) (1,800m), rated 20 to 45 (Cat.III) — 1.45: 1. Nova Scotia (10) P. Trevor 61.5, 2. Barbosella (7) Surya Prakash 59.5, 3. Lightning Power (5) Kuldeep Singh 56.5, 4. Super Act (1) Afroz Khan 56, 5. Alta Vita (11) A.A. Vikrant 55, 6. Bravo (6) Irvan Singh 55, 7. Minnelli (3) P. Ajeeth Kumar 55, 8. Royal Pal (4) Nakhat Singh 55, 9. Royal Style (13) Ajit Singh 55, 10. That’s My Star (2) Md. Ismail 54, 11. Balma (8) Akshay Kumar 53.5, 12. Bob Campbell (12) Jitendra Singh 53.5 and 13. A Hundred Echoes (9) B.R. Kumar 50.  1. NOVA SCOTIA, 2. BALMA,   3. ROYAL PAL   BRAVE DANCER PLATE (Div. I) (1200m) Maiden, 3-y-o & upward, rated 20 to 45 (Cat.III) — 2.15: 1. Mehrzad (16) Gaurav Singh 60.5, 2. Belle Springs (4) Afroz Khan 57, 3. Just Incredible (1) Irvan Singh 56.5, 4. Beautiful Luv (14) Arshad Alam 55.5, 5. Battle Ready (5) A.A. Vikrant 55, 6. Different (8) Md. Ismail 55, 7. Lamha (17) Akshay Kumar 55, 8. Proud Legacy (18) Jitendra Singh 55, 9. Time Is Good (7) Jodha R.S. 54.5, 10. Beauty On Parade (13) B.R. Kumar 54, 11. Sacred Lamp (9) Ajit Singh 54, 12. Downtown Gal (15) Ashad Asbar 53.5, 13. Felix Flame (12) Kuldeep Singh 53.5, 14. Golden Lace (Ex: Vlatava) (11) P. Sai Kumar 53.5, 15. Queen Blossom (10) Gaddam 53.5, 16. Star Dancer (6) Kiran Naidu 53.5, 17. Ice Berry (3) Nakhat Singh 52.5 and 18. Hashtag (2) G. Naresh 52.  1. BELLE SPRINGS, 2. LAMHA, 3. DOWNTOWN GAL   MOSSY BANK PLATE (1,400m), rated 40 to 65 (Cat.II) — 2.45: 1. Havelock Cruise (8) Deepak Singh 60.5, 2. Top Link (7) Kuldeep Singh 59, 3. Lightning Bolt (1) P. Trevor 58.5, 4. City Of Blossom (5) Ashad Asbar 58, 5. Esteva (6) Akshay Kumar 54, 6. Ashwa Arjun (4) Gaurav Singh 53, 7. Ulysses (3) Afroz Khan 53, 8. Blazer (9) Arshad Alam 52.5, 9. Flamboyant Lady (10) Nakhat Singh 52 and 10. Gazebo (2) Jitendra Singh 51.  1. LIGHTNING BOLT, 2. GAZEBO, 3. BLAZER   SILVER DAGGER PLATE (Div. I) (1,400m) rated 60 to 85 (Cat.II) — 3.15: 1. Air Strike (3) Irvan Singh 60, 2. Prince Valiant (8) P. Ajeeth Kumar 57.5, 3. Pontius Pilate (10) Gaurav Singh 56, 4. Tootsie Roll (4) Arshad Alam 55, 5. Agni (6) A.A. Vikrant 54.5, 6. Starlight (5) Kiran Naidu 54, 7. N R I Super King (Ex: Super Dart) (9) Antony Raj S 53, 8. Reno Star (11) Koushik 53, 9. Southern Legacy (2) Ashad Asbar 52.5, 10. Warrior Supreme (7) B.R. Kumar 51.5 and 11. Staridar (1) Akshay Kumar 50.5.  1. PONTIUS PILATE, 2. PRINCE VALIANT, 3. STARIDAR   WINDSCALE PLATE (Div. I) (1,800m), rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III) — 3.45: 1. Spicy Star (6) Mukesh Kumar 62.5, 2. Francis Bacon (9) Surya Prakash 61, 3. O’Brien (3) Md. Ismail 57, 4. Stormy (8) Jitendra Singh 56, 5. Advance Guard (14) Irvan Singh 55.5, 6. Always Success (12) P. Trevor 55, 7. Darshish (10) Gaurav Singh 55, 8. Prime Gardenia (13) Koushik 55, 9. Sweet Melody (2) B.R. Kumar 55, 10. Diesis Dream (5) G. Naresh 54.5, 11. Shanu Shanu (4) A.A. Vikrant 54, 12. Cheltenham (11) Afroz Khan 53.5, 13. Forever Bond (1) P. Ajeeth Kumar 53.5 and 14. Alexanderthegreat (7) Ajit Singh 52.5.  1. SPICY STAR, 2. ALWAYS SUCCESS, 3. FRANCIS BACON   SILVER DAGGER PLATE (Div. II) (1,400m), rated 60 to 85 (Cat. II) — 4.15: 1. Trump Girl (9) Abhay Singh 60, 2. Paso Robles (2) Afroz Khan 58, 3. That’s My Class (10) A.A. Vikrant 57, 4. Mark My Word (8) C.P. Bopanna 56, 5. Long Range (3) Irvan Singh 55.5, 6. The Great Gatsby (1) Kuldeep Singh 55, 7. Yours Forever (6) P. Trevor 53.5, 8. Shaquille (4) B.R. Kumar 52, 9. N R I Symbol (7) Jitendra Singh 51.5 and 10. Sovet Pride (5) Akshay Kumar 51.5.  1. PASO ROBLES, 2. YOURS FOREVER, 3. SOVET PRIDE   BRAVE DANCER PLATE (Div. II) (1,200m), Maiden, 3-y-o & upward, rated 20 to 45 (Cat.III) — 4.45: 1. Star Racer (14) Mukesh Kumar 60, 2. Amyra (1) P. Trevor 59.5, 3. Unstoppable (4) Deepak Singh 59.5, 4. Sea Wolf (6) G. Naresh 56.5, 5. Colachel Battle (11) Irvan Singh 56, 6. King Roger (7) Akshay Kumar 56, 7. That’s My Speed (15) Md. Ismail 56, 8. Win Vision (8) Kuldeep Singh 56, 9. Art In Motion (9) Arshad Alam 55, 10. Blickfang (16) Afroz Khan 55, 11. Sugar An Spice (17) A.A. Vikrant 55, 12. Castlerock (18) Ashad Asbar 54.5, 13. Fantastic Show (Ex: Queen Of Love) (13) Gaddam 54.5, 14. Mahavi (5) Jodha R.S. 54.5, 15. Millennia (12) Ajit Singh 54.5, 16. Star Of Fashion (10) Jitendra Singh 54.5, 17. Winning Player (3) Gaurav Singh 54.5 and 18. Sheldon (2) B.R. Kumar 51.  1. AMYRA, 2. UNSTOPPABLE, 3. SEA WOLF  Day’s Best: PASO ROBLES  Double: LIGHTNING BOLT – AMYRA  Jackpot: 4, 5, 6, 7 & 8. Mini Jackpot: (i) 2, 3, 4 & 5. (ii) 5, 6, 7 & 8. Treble: (i) 1, 2 & 3. (ii) 3, 4 & 5. (iii) 6, 7 & 8. Tanala: All races.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/pontius-pilate-vs-prince-valiant/article33318166.ece
13 December 2020||Pune:,||Tigrio should score an encore||Trainer P. Shroff’s ward Tigrio, who won well in his last start, should score an encore in the F.D. Wadia Trophy, the main attraction of Sunday’s (Dec. 13) Mumbai races to be held at Pune. Rails will be announced one hour before the first race.  NOBLE OPINION PLATE (Div. II) (1,000m), Cl. V, 4-y-o & over, rated 4 to 30 — 1.30 p.m.: 1. Fire Princess (1) Aniket 60, 2. Between Friends (5) Ayyar 58.5, 3. Pezula (13) Pranil 58, 4. Powerful Star (14) Peter 58, 5. Divija (2) C.S. Jodha 55.5, 6. Thea’s Pet (11) Kaviraj 55.5, 7. Arabian Muktar (9) Prasad 55, 8. Gold Member (4) Nirmal 55, 9. Primum Non Nocere (3) Neeraj 54.5, 10. War Weapon (10) T.S. Jodha 53, 11. Masar (8) S. Amit 52.5, 12. Shadows (6) Shubham 52.5, 13. Fire Flame (7) Nazil 52 and 14. Dancing Jade (12) Raghuveer 50.  1. THEA’S PET, 2. BETWEEN FRIENDS, 3. PEZULA   AN ACQUIRED TASTE PLATE (Div. I) (1,400m), (Terms) Maiden, 3-y-o only — 2.00: 1. Beejay (4) C.S. Jodha 56, 2. Blue Blood (6) Shailesh Shinde 56, 3. Ciplad (8) Dashrath 56, 4. Fassbinder (1) S. Zervan 56, 5. Marvin (7) A. Sandesh 56, 6. Arcadia (3) Neeraj 54.5, 7. Irish Eyes (5) Chouhan 54.5 and 8. Priceless Silver (2) Suraj Narredu 54.5.  1. PRICELESS SILVER, 2. FASSBINDER, 3. MARVIN   MAPLE STAR PLATE (1,200m), Cl. IV, 5-y-o & over, rated 20 to 46 — 2.30: 1. Rising Brave (4) Shahrukh 61.5, 2. Epiphany (10) T.S. Jodha 60.5, 3. Pleiades (7) Pranil 60, 4. Red Carnation (6) Aniket 59.5, 5. Dancing Lances (3) A. Gaikwad 59, 6. Agrami (11) Peter 58, 7. Safdar (5) Bhawani 57.5, 8. Wild Flower (1) J. Chinoy 57, 9. Mount Olympus (8) Kaviraj 56.5, 10. Isinit (2) A. Prakash 56, 11. Grand Sinatra (13) Chouhan 54.5, 12. Brave (12) Nazil 54 and 13. Honourable Eyes (9) Raghuveer 50.  1. DANCING LANCES, 2. EPIPHANY, 3. MOUNT OLYMPUS   PRICELESS PLATE (2,000m), Cl. IV, rated 20 to 46 — 3.00: 1. Power Of Thor (7) J. Chinoy 59.5, 2. Lorito (10) Dashrath 59, 3. Brazos (5) Parmar 58.5, 4. Luminous (6) Srinath 58.5, 5. Rogue One (1) Kaviraj 57, 6. Gold Medalist (13) Nazil 56, 7. Bold Legend (3) Chouhan 55, 8. Marrakesh (4) C.S. Jodha 54, 9. One For The Glory (9) K. Kadam 53.5, 10. Touch Of Faith (12) A. Sandesh 53.5, 11. Fire N Ice (8) Neeraj 52.5, 12. Scotland (2) Peter 52.5 and 13. Trinket (11) Bhawani 50.5.  1. LORITO, 2. BOLD LEGEND, 3. LUMINOUS   CURSETJEE DHUNJISHAW TROPHY (1,600m), Cl. III, rated 40 to 66 — 3.30: 1. Questionable (2) Rupesh 61, 2. Gallantry (5) C.S. Jodha 58.5, 3. Fanfare (4) N. Rawal 53.5, 4. Tudor Hall (6) S. Zervan 53, 5. Noble Heir (7) K. Kadam 52.5, 6. Notoriety (1) Neeraj 51.5 and 7. Guarnerius (3) Parmar 49.  1. TUDOR HALL, 2. NOTORIETY, 3. GALLANTRY   F.D. WADIA TROPHY (Gr. 3) (1,400m), (Terms) 3-y-o only — 4.00: 1. Leopard Rock (4) Suraj Narredu 57, 2. Tigrio (1) Srinath 55, 3. Miss Muffet (2) A. Sandesh 53.5, 4. Rubik Star (3) Bhawani 52 and 5. Hioctane (5) Parmar 50.5.  1. TIGRIO, 2. LEOPARD ROCK   AN ACQUIRED TASTE PLATE (Div. II) (1,400m), (Terms) Maiden, 3-y-o only — 4.30: 1. Allied Attack (5) Dashrath 56, 2. Dalasan (4) Nazil 56, 3. Iron Throne (8) T.S. Jodha 56, 4. Quarencia (2) C.S. Jodha 56, 5. Seriously (6) A. Sandesh 56, 6. Magic In The Wind (7) Parmar 54.5, 7. Queenship (1) S. Amit 54.5 and 8. Rambunctious (3) Neeraj 54.5.  1. RAMBUNCTIOUS, 2. IRON THRONE, 3. QUARENCIA   NOBLE OPINION PLATE (Div. I) (1,000m), Cl. V, 4-y-o & over, rated 4 to 30 — 5.00: 1. C’est L’Amour (11) Kaviraj 61.5, 2. Titanium (14) P. Shinde 61.5, 3. Abraxas (1) Aniket 61, 4. Suarez (3) Ajinkya 60.5, 5. Ame (13) Parmar 60, 6. Thunderclap (6) C.S. Jodha 60, 7. Alpine Dancer (9) Peter 59.5, 8. Moment Of Madness (7) Shahrukh 59.5, 9. Phoenix Spirit (4) Raghuveer 59.5, 10. Saltbae (10) S. Amit 59.5, 11. Tristar (12) Chouhan 59, 12. Multibagger (2) N.B. Kuldeep 58.5, 13. Kanadario (5) Nazil 56 and 14. God’s Decree (8) J. Chinoy 55.  1. AME, 2. C’EST L’AMOUR, 3. TITANIUM  Day’s Best: LORITO  Double: PRICELESS SILVER – TUDOR HALL||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tigrio-should-score-an-encore/article33318611.ece
13 December 2020||New Delhi,||Mary Kom a big source of inspiration: Bala Devi||National team striker Bala Devi, who recently became the first Indian woman to score a goal in Europe, idolises legendary boxer M.C. Mary Kom. Bala said she had met her biggest source of inspiration during the Asian Games in 2014, and termed record six-time World Champion and Olympic bronze medalist a “friendly person”. “Mary Kom is a big source of inspiration for me. She came from such humble beginnings and through her hard work, she broke so many records. Even after becoming a mother, she continues to break records and win laurels for the country,” Bala told AIFF TV . “We interacted at the Asian Games in 2014 and watched her train. She is a very friendly person and also supported us during our games,” she added. Earlier this year, the attacker signed for Scottish side Rangers Women FC and credited the ‘international exposure’ provided by the federation as a key factor as Indian football moves forward together. “I have represented India a lot. In my mind, I always wanted to play at the international level and after the AIFF gave us so many international exposure tours, I gained a lot of experience playing against European teams and I realised that I can play and compete with them,” opined Bala. “Then, I started seeking out teams and eventually chose to sign for Rangers as they are one of the best clubs in the world. I heard a lot about them and they also have a blue jersey like the Indian team,” she added. Bala made her debut for Rangers FC in the Scottish Women’s Premier League in February, before the COVID-19 pandemic brought the world to a standstill. With the competition having resumed since October, the mercurial forward created history as she scored her first competitive goal for the club on Sunday in a win against Motherwell. “Ever since I gave my trials at this club, I wanted to inspire every Indian player back home. I have always stayed positive and have wanted to be an inspiration for all the girls and young players in India who want to play internationally. It is something that has always been on my mind and I take it into account every time I step on to the pitch,” she said. Subsequently, the striker was named as a nominee for the AFC International Player of the Week alongside star names such as Iran’s Sardar Azmoun, Korea Republic’s Son Heung—min, and Japanese icon Saki Kumagai. “After the goal, a lot of people wished me, and many were talking and writing about it, which made me feel very proud,” Bala said. “After that, I was nominated for the AFC Player of the Week, and seeing my name on the list alongside such icons made me happy. I just want everyone to continue supporting us so we can keep achieving bigger things for the country in the future,” she signed off.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mary-kom-a-big-source-of-inspiration-bala-devi/article33318467.ece
13 December 2020||Mumbai,||Rohit’s fitness to be reassessed in Australia||Confirming that Rohit Sharma has obtained clearance from the National Cricket Academy to travel to Australia, the BCCI on Saturday said Rohit’s availability for the last two Tests in Australia would be subject to reassessment by the Indian team’s medical staff in Australia. “Mr. Sharma’s physical fitness has been satisfactory, however, he will be required to continue work on his endurance,” BCCI secretary Jay Shah said in a statement on Saturday. “He has been given a detailed programme to follow for the duration of the two weeks he will be quarantined for. He will be reassessed by the Team India medical team post his quarantine to establish his fitness status and a call on his participation in the Border-Gavaskar Trophy will be taken accordingly,” the statement said. Rohit, who suffered a left hamstring injury on October 18 during Mumbai Indians’ Indian Premier League match against Kings XI Punjab, will be required to spend 14 days in his hotel room as per COVID-19 protocols in Australia and will thus join the India squad only after the Boxing Day Test in Melbourne.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rohits-fitness-to-be-reassessed-in-australia/article33318145.ece
13 December 2020||Wellington,||Jamieson’s five-for has Windies on the ropes||Kyle Jamieson bagged five wickets in a masterclass of swing bowling as New Zealand had the West Indies on the ropes on day two of the second Test in Wellington on Saturday. The tourists ended the day on the brink of another follow-on as they struggled to 124 for eight, still 336 behind New Zealand's 460. Only Jermaine Blackwood provided any serious resistance but he fell late in the day for 69 as Jamieson and Tim Southee wreaked havoc. Jamieson got five for 34 for his second five-wicket haul in only his fourth Test. Southee returned three for 29.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/jamiesons-five-for-has-windies-on-the-ropes/article33318150.ece
13 December 2020||BENGALURU:,||Knight Templar wins feature event||Mr. C. Aryama Sundaram owned Knight Templar (Trevor up), won the Racing Patrons Trophy, the main event of the races held here on Saturday (December 12). The winner is trained by S. Padmanabhan.  The results   BELOVED PRINCE PLATE (1,200m), maiden 3-y-o only, (Terms): JOKSHAN (Irvan) 1, Golden Vision (Arshad) 2, Watchmystars (Trevor) 3 and Impeccable (Zervan) 4. Hd, 1/2 and 4-1/4. 1m 14.19s. Rs. 87 (w), 20, 42 and 13 (p), SHP: 136, THP: 73, FP: 1,265, Q: 710, Trinella: 10,900 and 778, Exacta: 14,446 and 67,417 (carried over). Favourite: Watchmystars. Owner: Mr. Joseph Thomas. Trainer: Sriram Komandur.  MURUDESHWAR PLATE (Div. II), (1,400m), rated 00 to 20, 4-y-o & over: DEFINITIVE (Ankit Yadav) 1, Song And Dance (Rayan) 2, Glorious Days (A. Imran) 3 and Zala Princess (Arshad) 4. 1-3/4, 1 and 4-1/4. 1m 27.96s. Rs. 1,061 (w), 216, 30 and 14 (p), SHP: 56, THP: 50, FP: 1,744, Q: 1,829, Trinella: 2,551 and 5,954 (carried over), Exacta: 80,844 (carried over). Favourite: Barog. Owners: Mr. Clinton Miller, Mr. Sujay Chandrahas, Mr. Dean Stephens & Mr. Martin Alan Wheeler. Trainer: S. Inayathulla.  BADAMI PLATE (1,200m), rated 15 to 35, 5-y-o & over: THE RESPONSE (M. Naveen) 1, Azeemki Princess (S. Shareef) 2, San Bernardino (M. Prabhakaran) 3 and Nerva (R. Shelar) 4. 2, 1 and 1. 1m 15.04s. Rs. 24 (w), 16, 28 and 14 (p), SHP: 60, THP: 53, FP: 175, Q: 166, Trinella: 311 and 222, Exacta: 22,903 and 14,723. Favourite: The Response. Owner: Mr. Dinesh Kumar K. Trainer: Sharat Kumar.  ADICHUNCHANAGIRI PLATE (1,400m), maiden 3-y-o only, (Terms): AMAZING BLAZE (Trevor) 1, Welcome Surprise (Arshad) 2, First Impression (M. Naveen) 3 and Towering Presence (P.P. Dhebe) 4. Not run: Morganite. 2-3/4, Nose and 3/4. 1m 26.48. Rs. 15 (w), 11, 51 and 12 (p), SHP: 93, THP: 36, FP: 180, Q: 162, Trinella: 404 and 173, Exacta: 4,889 (carried over). Favourite: Amazing Blaze. Owners: Poonawalla Racing & Breeding Pvt Ltd rep by. Mr. Zavaray S. Poonawalla, Mrs. Behroze Z. Poonawalla & Mrs. Simone Poonawalla Pandole, Mr. Mukul A. Sonawala & M/s. DT Racing & Breeding LLP rep by. Mr. D.R. Thacker. Trainer: S. Padmanabhan.  GARDEN CITY TROPHY (1,200m), rated 45 to 65: CUBAN PETE (Zervan) 1, Silver Dew (Darshan) 2, Knotty Oak (R. Marshall) 3 and Crack Of Dawn (Trevor) 4. Nk, 1-3/4 and Lnk. 1m 13.92s. Rs. 21 (w), 15, 18 and 20 (p), SHP: 43, THP: 49, FP: 68, Q: 55, Trinella: 332 and 284, Exacta: 5,456 and 2,572. Favourite: Cuban Pete. Owners: Five Stars Shipping Co. Pvt Ltd & Mr. Chaduranga Kanthraj Urs. Trainer: S. Attaollahi.  RACING PATRONS TROPHY (1,600m), rated 60 & above: KNIGHT TEMPLAR (Trevor) 1, Angelino (Zervan) 2, Roma Victor (S. John) 3 and Commodus (Jagadeesh) 4. 1-3/4, 1-1/4 and 3-1/4. 1m 38.10s. Rs. 33 (w), 13, 50 and 21 (p), SHP: 92, THP: 27, FP: 993, Q: 478, Trinella: 2,077 and 381, Exacta: 8,480 and 3,634. Favourite: Tenno Sho. Owner: Mr. C. Aryama Sundaram. Trainer: S. Padmanabhan.  BECKET PLATE (1,600m), rated 30 to 50, 4-y-o & over: ALEXANDRE DUMAS (Rayan) 1, Venus Bay (Ashhad Asbar) 2, Mighty Red (Darshan) 3 and Amazing Angel (Chetan K) 4. 6-3/4, 2-1/2 and 1-1/4. 1m 38.61s. Rs. 41 (w), 18, 19 and 18 (p), SHP: 94, THP: 48, FP: 56, Q: 111, Trinella: 12,764 and 10,941, Exacta: 11,410 and 4,890. Favourite: Marco Polo. Owner: Mr S.N. Harish. Trainer: Narayana Gowda.  MURUDESHWAR PLATE (Div. I) (1,400m), rated 00 to 20, 4-y-o & over: LOVELY SEIRRA (Ashhad Asbar) 1, Super Gladiator (J.H. Arul) 2, Konichiwa (Mark) 3 and My Vision (Chethan G) 4. Not run: Indian Star. Nose, 3-3/4 and Lnk. 1m 27.61s. Rs. 199 (w), 58, 21 and 24 (p), SHP: 51, THP: 190, FP: 670, Q: 734, Trinella: 30,698 (carried over), Exacta: 9,683 (carried over). Favourite: My Vision. Owner: Mr. B.E. Vasanth Kumar. Trainer: Azhar Ali. Jackpot: Rs. 74,480 (carried over); Runner up: 1,520 (21 tkts), Treble (i): 107 (25 tkts); (ii): 12,834 (carried over).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/knight-templar-wins-feature-event/article33318165.ece
13 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram:,||Supreme Court dismisses contempt proceedings against KCA||The Supreme Court of India on Saturday dismissed a contempt petition filed by Santosh Karunakaran and Pramod against Kerala Cricket Association (KCA). The petitioners had complained of non-compliance of the directions issued by Justice Lodha Commission by the KCA and the Committee of Administrators. The Supreme Court after hearing both parties decided to close the contempt petition. However, the Supreme Court noted that petitioners could pursue other remedies for the recommendation made by Justice Lodha Committee. “The KCA had amended its by-law after complying with the recommendation of the Lodha Committee and it was registered in Thiruvananthapuram as per directions of the Supreme Court. The KCA will take legal action against the petitioners for filing a false case against it,” said KCA secretary Sreejith V. Nair.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/supreme-court-dismisses-contempt-proceedings-against-kca/article33318468.ece
13 December 2020||Coimbatore,||Double delight for Datta and Sayed||Ashwin Datta (Dark Don Racing) and Amir Sayed (MSport) struck a double each on the penultimate day of the 23rd JK Tyre-FMSCI National Racing Championship at the Kari Motor Speedway here. After Vishnu Prasad of MSport had coasted to victory in the Formula LGB4 Race 1 on Friday, Datta roared back to clinch the double on Saturday. It wasn’t easy, though, for Datta as Vishnu battled hard in both races. Nervy moments Saturday’s first race witnessed some nervy moments, there being quite a few spins. The safety car came on time and again, but Datta kept his cool right through, winning under the yellow flag as the safety car was in. In the second race, it was Raghul Rangasamy (MSport) who held the advantage at the start before his car let him down on the fourth lap. Vishnu cashed in on the chance and moved ahead. It was a fight between Vishnu and Datta from there. But, even as Vishnu was building a sizeable lead and with just two laps to go looked set for a grand double, came the safety car . Datta moved in quickly and managed to get past Vishnu at the second corner. Vishnu stepped on the pedal one last time, but Datta played it smart and clean to finish the day on a merry note. Veteran star Sarosh Hataria of Ahura Racing drove clever as well to finish third.  The results (Provisional): JKNRC FLGB4: Race 1 (on Friday): 1. Vishnu Prasad (MSport, 21:58.046); 2. Sandeep Kumar (Dark Don); 3. Ashwin Datta (Dark Don).   Race 2: 1. Ashwin Datta (20:52.423); 2. Raghul Rangasamy (MSport); 3. Vishnu Prasad.   Race 3: 1. Ashwin Datta (22:13.962); 2. Vishnu Prasad; 3. Sarosh Hataria (Ahura Racing).   JK Tyre Novice Cup: Race 1: 1. Amir Sayed (MSport, 15:56.927); 2. Neym Rizvi (MSport); 3. Dhruvin Gajjar (DTS Racing).   Race 2: 1. Amir Sayed (16:23.787); 2. Dhruvin Gajjar; 3. Aman Chaudhary (DTS Racing).   Race 3: 1. Amir Sayed (11:58.316); 2. Aman Chaudhary; 3. Dhruvin Gajjar.   Race 4: 1. Amir Sayed (17:53.731); 2. Aman Chaudhary; 3. Dhruv Tyagi (Momentum Motorsports).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/double-delight-for-datta-and-sayed/article33318158.ece
13 December 2020||HYDERABAD,||HCA A-Division league from next week||Hyderabad Cricket Association (HCA) will organise the A-Division (three-day) league championship from next week, Naresh Sharma, joint secretary and chairman of the Leagues Committee, said. Naresh told The Hindu on Saturday that 11 of the 20 teams have already completed all formalities, including getting the COVID-19 test negative reports for all players and support staff. “We have convened a meeting of the captains on Monday, which is also the last date for submission of all relevant documents to commence the league.” Permission Meanwhile, Commissioner of Police (Rachakonda), whose permission was sought to conduct the AGM on December 20, has written back to HCA president Mohd. Azharuddin and secretary R. Vijayanand requesting them to submit a joint representation for permission to hold the AGM, along with a copy of the BCCI resolution, specific place of meeting, exact number of participants, etc. This was in response to the letter written by Vijayanand seeking permission to conduct the same and another communication from the president to the top police official to reject the permission to hold the above meeting as he suggested it was scheduled without his (Azhar’s) consultation and was not decided by the HCA Apex Council. In another development, Azhar sent a letter to the BCCI stating that he will be representing the HCA in the AGM on Dec. 24. “This is a surprising move by Azhar. We have to first convene the HCA AGM to debate and take a final call on who should represent us in the BCCI meeting,” said a senior member of the Apex Council.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/hca-a-division-league-from-next-week/article33318404.ece
13 December 2020||Dortmund,||Stuttgart hammers Dortmund||Promoted VfB Stuttgart scored three times in 10 minutes to crush host Borussia Dortmund 5-1 in the Bundesliga on Saturday and maintain its unbeaten run on the road this season. Dortmund, which has now gone three league games without a win, slips to fifth place on 19 points, while Stuttgart moves up to sixth on 17. Aston Villa snatched a 1-0 win at Wolverhampton Wanderers in the Premier League on Saturday after substitute Anwar El Ghazi drilled in a stoppage-time penalty as both sides finished the game with 10 men. The result lifted Villa up to eighth on 18 points from 10 games.  The results: Premier League: Wolves 0 lost to Aston Villa 1 (El Ghazi 90-pen).   LaLiga: Valencia 2 (Carlos Soler 26-pen, Manu Vallejo 83) drew with Athletic Club 2 (Villalibre 55, Raul Garcia 79-pen).   Serie A : Crotone 4 (Messias 7, 90+6, Reca 49, Eduardo Henrique 56) bt Spezia 1 (Farias 18).   Bundesliga: Borussia Dortmund 1 (Reyna 39) lost to Stuttgart 5 (Wamangituka 26-pen, 52, Foerster 60, Coulibaly 63, Gonzalez 90+1); RB Leipzig 2 (Sabitzer 26-pen, Olmo 41) bt Werder Bremen 0; Borussia M’gladbach 1 (Embolo 70) drew with Hertha BSC 1 (Guendouzi 47); Freiburg 2 (Grifo 79-pen, Yeong 90+2) bt Arminia 0; Mainz 0 lost to Cologne 1 (Rexhbecaj 55).   Friday: Premier League: Leeds 1 (Klich 6-pen) lost to West Ham 2 (Soucek 25, Ogbonna 80).   LaLiga: Real Valladolid 3 (Weissman 7, 76, Orellana 56-pen) bt Osasuna (Budimir 27, Roberto Torres 43).   Serie A: Sassuolo 1 (Berardi 8-pen) bt Benevento 0.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/stuttgart-wins-big/article33318167.ece
13 December 2020||Milan,||Will take time to build ‘skyscraper’: Conte||Under-pressure 1950 Antonio Conte told Inter Milan fans on Saturday he needed time to turn Inter Milan into “a skyscraper” in European football. Inter’s season in Europe is over after finishing bottom of their Champions League group, a third consecutive financially-damaging exit in the first round. “The fact that the league and Coppa Italia are all that remain for us is painful for me,” Conte said before Sunday's Serie A game against Cagliari. “Our elimination from the Champions League burns and those who know me know how I'm feeling about it. I want to send a message to Inter fans, we’re not giving in to those who hope to destroy what we are trying to create after a year and a half of work. “There is too much negativity, even if I understand that there is impatience after ten years without trophies. But we started from the ground up, we need time. Once the base has been built, one can think of the skyscraper, the kind Inter fans deserve.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/will-take-time-to-build-skyscraper-conte/article33318465.ece
13 December 2020||CHENNAI:,||Riders wear air bags vests||History was made at the MMRT here on Saturday when for the first time in Indian two-wheeler racing, protective air bags vests were worn by ten under-18 riders in the Idemitsu Honda India Talent Cup Open (NSF 250R) category. Protection The vest, that inflates on impact, provides additional protection to the racers in the event of a fall. The initiative by Madras Motor Sports Club and Honda Racing is designed to take motorsport to the next level by nurturing young talent.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/riders-wear-air-bags-vests/article33318212.ece
13 December 2020||New Delhi:,||Himmat hits unbeaten ton||Himmat Singh’s unbeaten 60-ball 100 stood out in Sahgal Sports Club’s four-run victory but not before Poonish Mehta (94 not out) and Robin Bisht (87) almost pulled it off for Collage Sports Club in a thrilling quarterfinals of the 30th all-India Sperry Om Nath Sood memorial cricket tournament here on Saturday. Chasing 278 to win, Collage ended up at 273 for six wickets in the allotted 40 overs. Man-of-the-Match Himmat, a regular member of the Delhi Ranji Trophy team, smashed his second 50 runs off just 15 deliveries as 94 runs came off the final five overs of the innings.  The scores: Sahgal Club 277/6 in 40 overs (Himmat Singh 100 n.o., Anmol Sharma 52, Ayush Badoni 47, Ekansh Dobal 45) bt Collage Sports Club 273/6 in 40 overs (Poonish Mehta 94 n.o., Robin Bisht 87, Anchit Yadav 59) .  Devender shines Services Ranji Trophy player Devender Lohchab (89) and Kapil Rao (74) did most of the scoring for Haryana Academy in its 96-run win over Golden Hawks in the first Tripathi Premier League tournament here.  The scores: Haryana Academy 228/8 in 40 overs (Devender Lohchab 89, Kapil Rao 74, Panday Raj 3/40) bt Golden Hawks 132 in 33 overs (Adarsh Srivastav 45, Vaibhav Sharma 28, Harman Singh 4/36, Sonu Chikara 3/23) .  It’s Lakshay vs Divijay Lakshay Gupta defeated Chirag Duhan 2-6, 6-3, 6-2 to set up a title clash against Digvijay Pratap Singh in the Rs. 100,000 AITA men's ranking tennis tournament here on Saturday.  The results (semifinals): Lakshay Gupta bt Chirag Duhan 2-6, 6-3, 6-2; Digvijay Pratap Singh bt B.N. Kumaran 7-5, 7-5 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/himmat-hits-unbeaten-ton/article33318285.ece
13 December 2020||Auckland,||No Taylor for Pakistan T20Is||Veteran batsman Ross Taylor was on Saturday dropped from an 18-man New Zealand squad named for the T20I series against Pakistan while Kane Williamson will return from his paternity leave to lead the side in the second and third matches. Besides the 36-year-old Taylor’s absence, fast bowler Lockie Ferguson, who suffered a bone stress injury in his back, was also left out of the squad for the three-match series starting here next Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/no-taylor-for-pakistan-t20is/article33318148.ece
13 December 2020||Sydney,||Pucovski out, Harris in||Victoria’s Marcus Harris was on Saturday added to an injury-plagued Australia squad for next week’s first Test against India after Will Pucovski was ruled out of the series opener along with David Warner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/pucovski-out-harris-in/article33318146.ece
13 December 2020||Sydney,||Pat for Siraj||India fast bowler Mohammed Siraj rushing up and attending to Cameron Green after he was hit on the head during the opening day of the warm-up game here has drawn praise from the Australian media. “Indian cricketer Mohd Siraj has been praised for his sportsmanship in helping young all-rounder Cameron Green after he suffered a blow to the head during the match,” tweeted 9News Australia.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/pat-for-siraj/article33318147.ece
13 December 2020||Kolkata,||Antwi stars for Gokulam FC||Dennis Antwi struck four for Gukulam Kerala FC, helping it thrash local side BSS Sporting Club 7-2 in its concluding Group D league match of the 123rd IFA Shield football, here on Saturday.  The results: Group A: Mohammedan Sporting 1 (Firoz Ali 50) bt Kalighat MS 0 at Kalyani Stadium. Group B: Peerless SC 1 (Uttam Rai 92) drew with Aryan Club 1 (Sumit Ghosh 94).   Group C: George Telegraph SC 2 (Krishanu Naskar 60, Tanmoy Ghosh 63) bt Southern Samity 1 (Yad Rudy Abbidde 83).   Group D: Gokulam Kerala FC 7 (Dennis Antwi 8, 12, 19, 47, Muhammed Shibil 66, M.S. Jithini 72, Sailou Guindo 85) bt BSS Sporting Club 2 (Pritam Roy 67, Asif Ali Moula 74) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/antwi-stars-for-gokulam-fc/article33318153.ece
13 December 2020||December 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Angulo scores winner||Igor Angulo scored his sixth goal of the season as FC Goa beat Odisha FC by a solitary goal in the Indian Super League at the Bambolim Stadium, Goa, on Saturday. Goa jumps to fourth With its second successive victory from five matches, Goa with eight points jumped to fourth position from seventh, while Odisha’s winless streak continues from as many encounters and it remains 10th with a solitary point. Towards the end of the first half, Alexander Romario’s wonderful cross from the left found Angulo, who pushed it forward before unleashing a left-footer from close range. It was a day when Odisha was lucky to lose by a one-goal margin, thanks to its custodian Arshdeep Singh who made a string of saves.  The result: FC Goa 1 (Igor Angulo 45) bt Odisha FC 0.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/angulo-scores-winner/article33318169.ece
13 December 2020||HYDERABAD:,||GM XI wins Amalraj felicitation match||General Manager XI scored a 12-run win over Deputy General Manager XI in a friendly cricket match organised as part of the felicitation programme to the former India football captain Victor Amalraj here on Saturday. Amalraj, who happens to be the only HyderabadI to have led all the three big clubs of Kolkata — Mohun Bagan, East Bengal and Mohammedan Sporting — will be retiring from service in the Food Corporation of India as Deputy General Manager (Telangana Region) at the end of this month.  SATS chairman A. Venkateshwar Reddy, GM FCI Ashwini Gupta (Telangana Region) were among those present. Special awards were given to Silky Sona Singla (player of the match) and A. Ammi Lal (best bowler).  The scores: General Manager XI 96/2 in 12 overs (Vinod Reddy 32 n.o.) bt DGM XI 84/5 in 12 overs (Basha 38) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/gm-xi-wins-amalraj-felicitation-match/article33318403.ece
13 December 2020||Chennai,||Hansini, Nikil Menon win||Nikil Menon and Hansini of AKG won the cadet boys’ and girls’ titles in the Share Play TNTTA state championship on Friday.  The results: Sub-junior: Boys: S. Preyesh (RHPTTC) bt S. Manikandan ( CIALFO) 11-7, 11-1, 11-5, 11-5. Girls: S. Nalini Amrutha (MVM) bt C.V. Madhu Preetha (DTTA- Tbm) 7-11, 11-7, 11-7, 8-11, 11-5, 2-11, 11-9.   Cadet: Boys: Nikhil Menon (AKG) bt Akash (AKG) 12-10, 11-7, 13-11. Girls: Hansini (AKG) bt Nandhini (MVM) 11-1, 11-7, 11-8 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/hansini-nikil-menon-win/article33318213.ece
13 December 2020||Yas Marina,||Verstappen wins first pole of season||Red Bull’s Max Verstappen clinched his maiden pole of the campaign on Saturday for the season-ending Abu Dhabi Grand Prix. The Dutch driver edged Valterri Bottas in second and the Finn’s Mercedes teammate Lewis Hamilton, racing for the first time since contracting COVID-19, in third.AFP  It was Verstappen’s first pole since the 2019 Brazilian GP and the third of his career    It was Verstappen’s first pole since the 2019 Brazilian GP and the third of his career||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/verstappen-wins-first-pole-of-season/article33318152.ece
13 December 2020||December 13 2020 07:41 IST,||Sudoku - December 13, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-december-13-2020/article33318779.ece
13 December 2020||December 13 2020 00:00 IST,||That-thati (Fresh, crisp)||Language: Konkani  The colloquial word is usually used in the context of a crisp fresh salad or fruit, and sometimes loosely used for someone who looks that way after a good night’s rest or a bath. I am a coordinator of an informal group Healthy Food Bank that has farmers and families who buy from them, and I am thankful that through much of the lockdown we had fresh, chemical-free produce throughout. The farmers follow Subhash Palekar’s philosophy of natural farming. This year has taught us to think of health holistically, so we are better able to tide through these times. - Deepa Sirur,46, from Byndoor, Karnataka; now lives in Pune; yoga trainer||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/that-thati-fresh-crisp/article33318514.ece
13 December 2020||December 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Wrapped in gingham and nostalgia||To paraphrase Stanley Kubrick, the truth of a place is in its feel, not in its think. Dad began to take me to Koshy’s for occasional Sunday dinners in the early 90s. He would order a ginger punch and a hot dog without looking at the menu. Looking at the menu was the dead giveaway of a non-regular, I learnt over the years. Additional brownie points were earned when one ordered off-menu items — like the Kerala fried chicken or organic mushrooms. Better still, when the waiter intuitively ordered for you and got it right. I usually have the look that says, ‘I’d like a glass tea, medium strong.’ The iconic restaurant downed shutters for a couple of months at the height of the pandemic but has opened again, much to the relief of its loyal patrons. Considering white bread, white sugar and fried food are now passé, one still hasn’t given up Koshy’s. Its teapots, tablecloths and teak pillars transport you to a time when food and company were to be savoured, as the world paused a while. Speaking of tablecloths, they are not routinely offered and one must earn their stripes. (Or checks — they are gingham after all.) I was once wearing a reddish gingham shirt, and was brought a tablecloth to match. I should have sent it back, but resisted. To my chagrin, a popular illustrator was seated close by. The next morning, I found myself on her Instagram page wearing a Koshy’s tablecloth. When some of us are to meet, we only agree on day and time; the venue is implied. Our generation tends to call it Koshy’s, though technically Koshy’s is two restaurants — Parade Café on the left and Jewel Box on the right. Most of us only steer left, to the non-AC, noisy, all-day bistro with its askew sepia picture frames and fuzzy radio in the background. You know the non-regulars from how they turn towards Jewel Box during tea-time, ignorant that it reopens only for dinner (in the pre-pandemic era). Or how they stare at the high ceiling on stepping in. Then there are those who come only to use the loo. And those who simply sit and stare — whom the French call seigneurs-terrasse . The patrons have their favourite tables. The brooding professor, the animated lawyers, the writer, the art collector, the skateboarder and the journalist all stick to their turf. I once requested a gentleman at the next table to turn down the volume on his WhatsApp video. He admonished me with a laugh, “ Iddu sante saar !” (This is a bazaar, sir!) He was right. We acknowledge each other with a smile now, in unspoken camaraderie. Bazaar ambience I miss the ambient din these days. At busier times, you strained to hear yourself at lunch, or when the Pride parade moved to Parade’s. Or at late breakfast on Sundays when the congregation usually descends after service at St. Mark’s Cathedral next door. Only on those mornings are appams served with stew. The rush requires you to queue up outside, à la The Breakfast Club in London. You may end up sharing tables too, as you would at Vidyarthi Bhavan. Christmas decorations come up for a month on December 15 with a special menu that leaves you craving for the rest of the year. Consider yourself worthy if you’ve received hot cross buns for Easter with the compliments of the boss. Good Friday and Christmas are the only two days that Koshy’s shuts in the year. You’ll find us drifting aimlessly then, towards Airlines or MTR perhaps. We’ve reunited with friends, and separated with some; ruminated alone or celebrated with groups over cups of coffee (and stronger stuff). I was there when a partners’ tiff got almost violent and when a customer brought her violin and played it impromptu. When a regular fell out with his clique, and when another was spotted for the last time after borrowing moneys that remain unpaid to this day. When a waiter scolded a customer for asking him to hurry up, and when another kicked his manager. When the ceiling cracked and the café went into months of renovation. We would then eke out our visits to what looked like a pandal. Prem Koshy, the third-gen owner, was always gracious in acknowledging our solidarity, but actually we knew no other way. Artistic tributes As is deserving of a city’s legend, Koshy’s has sketches, photographs, articles and puzzles constructed around it. Paul Fernandes, Aliyeh Rizvi, Nirlek Dhulla, Nafisa Crishna, Shikha Nambiar and Archana Pereira have all had a stab at it. The late Raghav Shreyas, in his delectable photobook Table by the Window , shot Girish Karnad, Prakash Belawadi, Anjum Hasan and cigarette-totting Preetam Koilpillai sitting by the Venetian blinds (which have since been removed). I’m hopeful of a similar tribute to the waiters of Koshy’s someday. Cities are often defined by their cafés. As Les Deux Magots does Paris and German Bakery, Pune. If Cubbon Park is the buffer separating the cantonment and the pété (old market area), Koshy’s is the converse. A melting pot for the constituents of the city to come together in a space that is multilingual, conversational and sans moral police. Adda in Kolkata comes close to defining what hanging out at Koshy’s is, but we’re not quite as argumentative. Koshy’s is not OlyPub nor Indian Coffee House, but is yet a bit of both. Its European vibe blends with an Irani Cafe’s fare. And vice versa. That’s the thing with Koshy’s — you can never really put your finger on its pulse and the intrigue keeps you hooked. As the protagonist in Vivek Shanbhag’s Ghachar Ghochar says, ‘The truth is I have no real reason to come to Coffee House.’ The place is, after all, to be felt and not thought. The Bengaluru-based lawyer is a Koshy’s regular.  The patrons have their favourite tables. The brooding professor, the animated lawyers, the writer, the art collector, skateboarder and journalist all stick to their turf||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/wrapped-in-gingham-and-nostalgia/article33317937.ece
13 December 2020||December 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Celebrate, connect, collaborate||What’s time? Is it a cosmic dance, a transcendental motion beyond our ken, or is it the medium of all our human experiences, life, death and rebirth, the fever and the fret of the world? An art critic and historian expounds on the difference between kaala and samaya , and later, a dancer acts out the dichotomy through two successive performances, one in the shadows — performing cosmic time in almost Platonic fashion — and one in full visibility. The time-keeper Dancer Malavika Sarukkai and art historian B.N. Goswamy were among the star cast who meditated on the theme of time at the digital launch of the Museum of Art and Photography (MAP) in Bengaluru. Other offerings included narrations by Arundhati Nag, Devdutt Pattanaik and William Dalrymple, a poem recited alternately in Urdu and English by Javed Akhtar and Shabana Azmi, and a song specially composed and sung for the occasion by Kavita Seth. When asked why they had chosen this theme, the museum’s founder-trustee, art collector and industrialist Abhishek Poddar, spoke of how a museum is a keeper of time, and how — quoting the words of Nandita Das on the opening night — “time is the ultimate judge of art”. While we listened to these voice-overs, the visuals — the launch was broadcast on YouTube — took us on a digital tour of the museum, showing us a number of galleries and exhibits. It was a technological feat that involved many layers of work, including rendering drawings of the interior into 3D to “create an experience as if you were in the building,” says Poddar. The evening kicked off a six-day programme titled Art is Life , held from December 6 to 11. On each day, a video focusing on a particular category of art was released, featuring an introductory narration and examples of such art, as well as a performance where the performers were asked to react to a piece of art. For example, the second day’s video on folk and tribal art included a performance of the popular Jatayu Moksha Yakshagana by the Udupi Yakshagana Kendra, reacting to an illustrated scene from the Ramayana in which Ravana slays Jatayu. Changed world Each of the videos included a segment where a piece of art from MAP’s collection was compared or contrasted with an object held by an international institution. On the second day, for instance, a work by the pioneering Gond artist Jangarh Singh Shyam was compared to one by the Inuit artist Kenojuak Ashevak , from the Rhode Island School of Design. This was part of another initiative that was launched during the opening week: ‘Museums Without Borders’, a collaboration with 50 international institutions including the British Museum, the Museum of Fine Arts (Boston), The Morgan Library & Museum, and the Detroit Institute of Arts. It’s a concept that resulted from the lockdown, explains MAP director Kamini Sawhney. “In this new, changed world, how do we get objects and people to travel?” The digital medium, of course, showed the way forward, and MAP reached out to museums around the world. What the opening week showcased was just the start — there’s a whole series of juxtapositions being developed. Digital M.F. Husain Several exhibitions are now available for viewing on the website, including Suresh Punjabi’s works — he donated his whole oeuvre of studio photographs to the museum — and the works of Bhil artist Bhuri Bai, complete with content such as films created for the digital medium. A physical launch was initially planned for this month, but the pandemic set construction back by several months, and the plan now is to launch the building next year. The space itself should be ready by April or May, but the timing of the launch will depend on the vaccine situation; as Poddar says, they “want it to be a celebration”. It was an ambitious and well-executed opening, put together in a flurry of brainstorming and activity over the course of three-four months, for an ambitious project — South India’s first major private art museum. Starting off in 2016 with Poddar’s personal collection as the core, it grew with donations by other patrons and artists including Deepak Puri and Jyoti Bhatt, and now houses over 20,000 objects. What is special about the museum? Sawhney points to their categories, which range from popular culture and textile to folk and tribal art to the modern and contemporary; they aim to “collapse the distinction between high and low art” and to be “representative of everybody, so that everyone who walks into this space, whatever their background, whatever their income range, whatever their religion, whatever their community, feels that there is some part of their culture reflected in this place.” She also stresses that the categories are not silos: the point is to draw connections — how do classical artists represent Durga and how do contemporary artists look at the same concept, for example. Another point of emphasis is the use of technology, such as 3D holographic experiences. Being located in Bengaluru, the MAP team was struck by the prospect of collaborating with tech companies. Working with Accenture, they’ve created an AI-enabled digital persona of M.F. Husain that visitors can converse with to learn more about the real artist. They’ve also developed a software called MAPLAB, which uses technology to find solutions for art. At the same time, Sawhney acknowledges the need to be judicious in deploying technology, to “enhance the experience without overwhelming the collection”. “A new museum for a new era” with collaboration at its heart is how Sawhney envisions the future of MAP. Creating a museum-going culture and getting past the stereotype of dusty, boring, cavernous buildings are among the loftier long-term goals. Bringing interconnectedness to the fore, as exemplified in the opening festival, is another vital aspect. How far will they succeed? Time will be the judge, but this meticulously put together and tasteful opening paints a promising picture.  Creating a museum-going culture and getting past the stereotype of dusty, boring, cavernous buildings are among the loftier long-term goals||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/celebrate-connect-collaborate/article33317997.ece
13 December 2020||December 13 2020 00:00 IST,||‘I hope my retelling is as far from Amar Chitra Katha as Kashmir is from Kanyakumari’||With celebrated translations of Ramayana  and Kathasaritsagara to her credit, Arshia Sattar is a scholar-writer-translator who works with the myths and storytelling traditions of South Asia not just through her books but through theatre, cinema and pedagogy. With a doctorate in South Asian Languages and Civilizations from the University of Chicago, Sattar talks here about her latest work, Mahabharata for Children , and the challenge of tackling this complex and layered epic for a younger readership without losing its essence. The times are particularly fraught for those who seek to engage with Indian mythologies. Why did you choose to publish this book now? If I were to think about this, I would have stopped working years ago. I can’t do that and so I, and so many others, do what we do, no matter whether the times we live in support our commitments and our livelihoods or not. As it happens, the darkness in Mahabharata and the questions it raises about ethical behaviour could not be more relevant to our times. Even more important, perhaps, is what Mahabharata says about hatred in the human heart and the imbalances and violence it engenders.  Books likeRobinson CrusoeorGulliver’s Travelshave always occupied a liminal space between childhood and adulthood. DoesMahabharataoccupy a similar space? I think a more appropriate comparison is with the Homeric epics, Beowulf , [ The Tale of ] Genji and other ancient stories in other cultures. Do children need to know these stories? Yes, they do. Will they enjoy them? Absolutely. Do they need to read them in the same form as adults do? No, they don’t. Most Indian children encounter the two epics from a very young age, as stories told by grandparents, as texts or school plays or, of course, in comics. So why aMahabharata for Children? What did you hope to do differently from whatAmar Chitra Kathahas already done? Many scholars, translators and literary critics believe that every generation needs its own translation or retelling of a classic. In 2020, Amar Chitra Katha is already out of sync with the universe of images and ideas that our children inhabit. Its political problems are also very clear — the way women are depicted, their clothes, their lack of agency. Dalits and rakshasas share similar facial features and colouring, Muslims are typically rapacious and cruel. I hope my retelling is as far from Amar Chitra Katha as Kashmir is from Kanyakumari. When the epic was written/ imagined 2000 years ago, there was possibly no consciousness of ‘children’s literature’ at the time. Is this a modern construct? And did it, therefore, involve a modernistic approach for your retelling to materialise? When you say ‘literature,’ I think you mean books in print culture specifically written for children — that’s modern. But storytelling is as old as human communities, and surely all children at all times and places were avid listeners to stories told to them by parents and others. What is modern about the stories we tell children now is that we expect them to be didactic. What is the message, what will my child learn, are questions I am asked with metronomic regularity. Children learn enough in the classroom; stories should be a place of pleasure. My approach is neither consciously modern nor consciously archaic. I want to restore pleasure to the act of storytelling and listening. Did tackling this epic for children involve sanitising?Mahabharatadeals with some unconventional ideas — the practice ofniyoga, for instance, or polyandry. What did you decide to leave out or euphemise, and how did you arrive at those decisions? There’s a lot of sex outside marriage in Mahabharata . I took the easy way out, but a way that was not inaccurate. In my book, the man might say, ‘I will give you a son,’ or in the case of Kunti and Surya, I said something like, ‘She was awed by the glory of the Sun and called to him to give her a child.’ In the epics, it’s more important for readers to know that the heroes were usually born in unusual ways. It makes them special. If a child’s interest persists, the social practices of the epics can be examined when they are older. Mahabharata, unlikeRamayanawith its clear good versus evil storyline, is all grey. How did you deal with the idea of dualities and greys and does this, in turn, complicate ethical questions for young readers? I’ve tried to make the ethical problems available not as a series of answers or judgements or by choosing some characters as ‘good’ over others that are ‘bad’; I hope I’ve told the story in a way that allows younger readers to see the problems for themselves. I hope that this a book that parents and children will read together. However old we are, however much we think that we act for good, we need to think about our own actions, too. Mahabharatahas many versions and tellings. Was there one canonical edition you chose and why? In doing so, do you think you might have lost out on some sweeter, quirkier accounts from the margins? My instinct is always to go back to the Sanskrit text, not because I support elite cultures but because that’s the language in which I’m trained to read the epics. Yes, of course, my choice of the Sanskrit text means that there’s a loss in terms of local stories and variants but then, you win some, you lose some. With a translation or a retelling, the reader wins by having someone else do the hard work of making a difficult text accessible and if they feel the loss of other voices and versions strongly enough, maybe it will encourage them to seek for themselves the stories and interpretations that are further away.  With 100,000 verses and 18 volumes,Mahabharatais enormously long, with a highly complex story-in-story structure of narrators and narrations. How long did the project take? The writing took about six months. Some parts were written at a stretch, sometimes I took weeks away from writing. But I’ve been thinking about this project for a long time, years maybe. I had to decide how to tell it such that younger readers also see the moral dilemmas that characters inhabit. I spent a lot of time figuring out how to place the backstories of various characters, like Shikhandi. So, it took very little time to write as well as a lot of time.  (Read the full interview online)   Her translated works includeTales from the KathāsaritsāgaraandVālmīki’s Rāmāyaṇa Has written several works for children, includingKishkindha TailsandRamayana for Children Teaches classical Indian literature at several institutions in India and abroad Her latest book,Mahabharata for Children, published by Juggernaut, was released last month   My approach is neither consciously modern nor consciously archaic. I want to restore pleasure to the act of storytelling and listening||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/i-hope-my-retelling-is-as-far-from-amar-chitra-katha-as-kashmir-is-from-kanyakumari/article33317940.ece
13 December 2020||December 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Back from the badlands||On October 31, when Khara Chaitan, 70, a Paraja tribesman of Kusumput village in Odisha’s Malkangiri district, stepped out, he saw the tricolour fluttering outside a building in Gurasethu for the very first time. Had someone told Chaitan, even a few months ago, that formal government, as represented by the tricolour, would arrive so close to his home, he would have laughed it off. The flag had been hoisted that morning by a posse of men from the Border Security Force (BSF) and Odisha Police, with a bunch of local officials in tow. Gurasethu is in the heart of what was until recently the Maoist bastion of Swabhiman Anchal, once known as the ‘Cut-Off’ area of Malkangiri, a well-established theatre of several bloody stand-offs between Maoist rebels and security forces. In 2008, 39 security personnel, most of them belonging to Andhra Pradesh police’s elite Greyhound force, were killed in a Maoist ambush in the Balimela reservoir. In 2011, the then Malkangiri collector R. Vineel Krishna was abducted when he went to supervise development work. In 2012, four BSF personnel, including a commandant, were killed in a landmine blast because security personnel repainted a memorial erected in memory of Maoist central committee member Patel Sudhakar Reddy at Janbai, the gateway to Swabhiman Anchal. Working model? The flag that morning in Gurasethu was just one of several recent indicators that the area is slowly being reclaimed by the State government. Once littered with landmines, the area is gradually being mainstreamed in a manner that might well become the template for combating left-wing extremism in the country. Before the security forces landed in Gurasethu, a red-painted, single-storey building used by Maoists, and a martyr’s memorial that commemorated their dead, were the two chief landmarks. The structures were symbols indicating that the sprawling hilly region in the Eastern Ghats on the Odisha-Andhra Pradesh border was under ‘occupation’ by the outlawed outfit, CPI (Maoist). Swabhiman Anchal featured prominently on the Maoist map along with other areas such as the Dantewada, Bijapur, Bastar and Narayanpur regions of Chhattisgarh. Situated at the tri-junction of Odisha, Andhra Pradesh and Chhattisgarh, in some extremely inaccessible country, the law had very little presence in this area. The jungles and badlands offered any number of hiding places for Maoists. Malkangiri has been among India’s worst affected districts, recording 332 Maoist incidents between 2008 and 2020, with 101 civilian and 77 security personnel deaths. Of this, Swabhiman Anchal accounted for the deaths of 25 civilians and 49 security personnel. In 2016, in an encounter at Ramaguda in Swabhiman Anchal, some 30 Maoist ultras were killed. Cut-off area How did it become possible for such an inaccessible area to exist in a fairly well-connected modern nation? The answer is that for 50 years, the government forgot it had thousands of citizens living here, citizens left to fend for themselves in the hills and forests. The ‘Cut-Off’ area was created when the Balimela Dam came into being. Construction work began in 1962-63 in what was then Koraput district, and the dam was competed in 1977. According to Bidyut Mohanty, a Koraput-based social activist, the project submerged 17,496 hectares of land, affecting 89 villages. In 1975, a plan was chalked out to rehabilitate 1,200 tribal families in 31 resettlement villages. Eventually, some 700 families were sent to 24 villages. The reservoir, meanwhile, created a water channel, 60 km long, which encircled 151 villages from three sides. For three years, between 1975 and 1978, the water-locked people had no access to the mainland and were cut off from civilisation. This erased their existence from the nation’s memory. Later, the government started a steamer service, which became the only link to the mainland. Nobody ventured there, not even government authorities. The villages fell off the map and stayed that way for 40 years. The turning point came in 2018, when a bridge was built over the Gurupriya river. One of the most heavily protected bridges in the country, it is now the only land link to the rest of the State. The bridge allowed administrators and security forces to reach 12 km into Swabhiman Anchal, but large parts of the interiors were still out of bounds, controlled by the ultras and with boats as the only means of access. In December 2019, the government began laying three-metre-wide pedestrian roads in the interiors. Although the ultras strongly opposed any roads that could reach their bastions, they allowed these narrow roads because they calculated that security forces would not be able to use them for heavy vehicles. As it happened, the narrow roads helped the BSF ride in on motorbikes and reach Hantalguda, a Maoist stronghold, where they set up camp on a commanding ridge. Human shield Hantalguda was one of the spots where Maoists had constructed concrete houses and memorials, structures offered as examples of development in contrast to the government’s neglect. But now, with these new roads, the people saw the enormous mobility they offered and wanted them extended up to their villages. They began to shield road-workers from possible attacks by the ultras, slowly changing the power dynamics of the area. Villagers began to sell the horses they had once used in the hilly outposts to buy motorbikes instead. “It heralded a new era for us. The roads brought us out from darkness,” says Ghasi Hantal of Hantalguda. Many villagers had never ridden in an auto-rickshaw before these three-wheelers arrived here. Some 31 roads, covering 231 km, and 24 small bridges are under construction now. Then, the first mobile towers came up and a critical balance was tipped in favour of the administration. While the motive might have been to facilitate intelligence tip-offs, phones inevitably connected people to the world outside. The government has now planned seven mobile towers in Swabhiman Anchal. In July, the first passenger bus was introduced. The district administration has also started digging borewells. The idea is to demonstrate that the government is serious about development. The people of Swabhiman Anchal, who for decades have sourced drinking water from muddy streams, now have potable water in their backyards. Making inroads Even as Maoists continued to attack the BSF camp at Hantalguda, the security forces set their eyes on Jadambo, eight km away, which served as a sort of Maoist capital. In January this year, the administration was given five days to build a ghat road across the hilly terrain connecting the two places. More than 1,000 security personnel were deployed to plug every possible entry and exit route of the ultras. The ghat road was built, allowing the administration to reach Jadambo. The watershed moment was possibly the night of January 25, when armed rebels came into Janturai, a village in Swabhiman Anchal, demanding to know why the villagers had allowed the road to be built. The question enraged the villagers, especially the women, who summoned the courage to ask why they should not be entitled to a road and to progress. The altercation grew, and some 200 tribal women reportedly besieged the ultras, pulling at their hair and landing blows while the men stood guard with bows and arrows. This was an unprecedented fight back. The clash, which killed one Maoist and seriously injured another, sent the ultras fleeing but not before they burnt down several homes. The fact that three villages — Janturai, Sindhibadi and Jadambo — had fought against the Maoists generated confidence in the security forces. And on January 26 this year, they hoisted the flag for the 71st Republic Day celebrations. “The world has gone way ahead, surely nobody can prevent us from having a motorable road to our village. We could not have allowed this to go on,” says Chandrakala Sisa of Janturai. After the incident, the former Malkangiri District Collector, Manish Agarwal, and the Superintendent of Police, Rishikesh Dnyandeo Khilari, visited the BSF camp at Hantalguda; this was the first time that top district officers had ventured so far into Swabhiman Anchal. The villagers whose huts were burnt down were given compensation. “We have ensured that not a single incident of police high-handedness spoils our achievements. The humane approach is our mantra to win hearts,” says Shefeen Ahamed, Deputy Inspector General of Police for the South West Range. New citadel For the Maoists, the next citadel to defend was Gurasethu, their ideological headquarters. This is where they conducted training sessions for their armed cadres. Being close to Andhra Pradesh, rebels would slip across the State border after carrying out attacks. The citadel fell. The Maoists have since been fighting a guerrilla war. But the moment the state steps back on development, they will be able to stage a comeback; the administration knows this well, which is why it ensures that development and securing territory goes on in tandem. There are other challenges. For instance, cannabis has for long been the illegal cash crop here. “It is important to wean people away from cannabis and towards turmeric, equally profitable. We have drawn up a plan to convert cannabis fields into turmeric farms. If things go as planned, we may soon see organic turmeric from Swabhiman Anchal,” says Agarwal. The Balimela reservoir, originally responsible for the area’s isolation, is now being turned into a source of income, with the government planning to release five crore fingerlings into the reservoir for regenerative fishing. The decades of seclusion have created generations of illiteracy. Madan Khara, a shopkeeper in Hantalguda, doesn’t even know basic maths, while Krushna Hantal’s Class VII-level schooling is the village’s highest. A residential complex for teachers is being built to revive schools here. Health sub-centres are also being constructed; the Jadambo primary health centre is being run with the help of an NGO. Two doctors were recruited in Swabhiman Anchal for the first time in September this year. “In the last one year, people here have seen many firsts. What is promised is being delivered. Police stations function like civil administration,” says Khilari. Winning trust Maoists have now retreated to Jantri, the extreme end of the reservoir. Two bridges are being planned to extend the road to Jantri. It is too early to say whether Swabhiman Aanchal has been fully reclaimed or if development will squeeze out the ultras. For a region with such a long history of neglect and injustice, winning people’s trust can be a long process. “For decades, the government neglected the region; there was no real development agenda. Force cannot be a tool to win back a region where the CPI (Maoist) established its presence by highlighting socio-economic issues. There has to be a human touch in every action of the government,” says Deepak Nayak, a researcher with the New Delhi-based Institute Conflict Management. “The government needs to make people partners in the development process before expecting any tangible change. Nobody questions the importance of the role of security forces in bringing back normalcy, but they cannot be the face to win back trust.” Vijay Upadhyay, a rights activist in Malkangiri, says that many villagers still believe the new roads are meant for the movement of security forces. “The Maoists were never against development,” says Upadhyay. “In fact, they were quite supportive of education and development. While it’s true they opposed the Gurupriya bridge, it is because they said it would allow security forces to enter.” Nothing stopped the Odisha government from developing the area, says Upadhyay. “The administration has been entirely missing all these decades.” Unless the government shows concrete action, the trust deficit will only continue. Development cannot be viewed from the prism of security alone; it means addressing jobs, drinking water, food, health and education issues. The NITI Aayog report of October 2020 shows that Malkangiri continues to languish in the bottom 10 of the Aspirational District Programme index. In health and nutrition, its performance is deteriorating. At Chitrokonda, the boats still ply, ferrying people to their hamlets in Swabhiman Anchal. Damuni Karingia, 70, from Panaspadar village, says she has undertaken a four-hour boat journey to buy a kilo of salt and some jute bags. “The day my grandson or great-grandson can take me to the market or health centre in his gaadi from my doorstep, and I need not worry about tomorrow’s meal, I will say development has finally arrived,” says Karingia.  When the first mobile towers came up here, a critical balance was tipped in favour of the administration. While the motive might have been to facilitate intelligence tip-offs, phones inevitably connected people to the world outside||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/back-from-the-badlands/article33317961.ece
13 December 2020||December 13 2020 00:00 IST,||The audacity of hope||On January 20, 2009, before his inauguration as the first African-American President of the United States, Barack Obama and his wife Michelle were driven to St. John’s Episcopal Church in Washington DC, a block away from the White House. In the ‘Church of the Presidents’, as it’s often called, the Obamas had arranged a private service by their friend T.D. Jakes. The Dallas pastor, in his sermon, told the story from the Old Testament about the three men who refused to bow down to the King of Babylon, Nebuchadnezzar II, because they were faithful to God. They were thrown into a blazing furnace, but emerged unscathed as God protected them. What the pastor meant was that the presidency is the furnace. “But so long as I stayed true to God and to doing what was right, I too had nothing to fear,” writes Obama in the first part of his memoirs on his presidency, A Promised Land .     In a way, the 44th President of the U.S. has effortlessly built a narrative in this long presidential memoir, which covers only the first term in office that states he stayed true to doing right within the limitations he faced. ‘Conservative temperament’ Obama is not a revolutionary. He is what Gideon Rose, the editor of Foreign Affairs , called in a 2015 essay “an ideological liberal with a conservative temperament”. When he became President, the U.S. was facing immense economic and geopolitical crises. The sub-prime crisis and the subsequent recession had a huge impact on the American economy. The wars in Iraq and Afghanistan were also not showing any sign of ending.  Obama’s priority was to steady the ship. And in order to do that, one of the first things he did was to align himself with the Washington establishment. He chose Clinton-era free market economists to lead his economic team, whose primary job was to take the U.S. out of the economic crisis for which the same free market policies were blamed. He chose Robert Gates, the Republican “Cold War hawk” who supported the Iraq war and was appointed by George W. Bush as Defence Secretary, to continue to run the Pentagon. Why? Because Obama wanted to end the “partisan rancour”. Recalling President Dwight Eisenhower’s famous reference to the “military industrial complex”, Obama says he wanted to win the trust of the intelligence agencies and the military because “there was a high likelihood that pushing reform might be harder for a newly elected African-American President”. When he sees protests against Bush Jr. — who protesters called a ‘war criminal’ — it angers Obama, who thinks it’s “graceless and unnecessary”. Obama was against Bush’s war policies, but he still detached his opposition to the wars from the architect of those wars. It’s with this Obamaesque detachment he’s looking at his time in the White House — he is more of an observer, analyst and judge rather than the protagonist. On Rahul Gandhi When it comes to other leaders, both American and foreign, Obama is more open in letting the reader know what he thinks. “Sarah Palin had absolutely no idea what the hell she was talking about,” he writes. The GOP’s Mitch McConnell, he writes, perhaps jokingly, was wary of “cooperating with (Black, Muslim socialist) Obama”. Vladimir Putin of Russia was “like a ward boss, except with nukes and a UN Security Council veto.” Rahul Gandhi has “a nervous, unformed quality about him, as if he were a student who’d done the coursework and was eager to impress the teacher but deep down lacked either the aptitude or the passion to master the subject.” Usually, memoirs of political leaders are focused on policy decisions and historical events. Typically, readers would also want that — details of events that shaped history. But Obama is not our regular leader. As the first African-American President of the U.S., the world’s oldest democracy that had to fight a civil war to end slavery, Obama has a special place in history, irrespective of his politics and policies. And Obama tells his story from that special place. He’s not just giving a colourless account of his White House years. He has placed himself and his family in the crucible of history to tell the story of his personal and public lives and how they evolved, often with contradictions, over the years. He travels from the family to politics, from love to diplomacy and trust to judgments in beautiful, engaging prose and anecdotes. The historical examples and parallels he invokes while talking about his own journey (“the seven-day trip of George Washington by barge and horse-drawn buggy from Virginia to New York City” or the story of the Resolute  desk in the Oval Office or Lincoln’s ‘House Divided’ speech) draws up the larger picture of the road the U.S. has taken over the centuries to reach where is it now. Miles to go Many of the foreign policy challenges he faced such as the Iran nuclear programme, the Arab street protests, Syrian civil war and his disastrous Libya war are not part of this memoir. He has promised a second part. But Obama has presented an impassioned defence of some of his achievements such as the Recovery Act and the Affordable Care Act. To be sure, these were achieved despite a Republican Party that was up in arms against his presidency. But Obama’s achievements would be compared not only with those of his immediate predecessor but also to the promises he made during his campaign. He had promised change and raised passions and hopes. But in the White House, he chose to be a pragmatic centrist, dashing many of those hopes. It’s from those ashes that Donald Trump rose.  A Promised Land Barack Obama Penguin/Viking  Rs. 1,999    Obama is not our regular leader. He has a special place in history, irrespective of his politics and policies. And he tells his story from that special place||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-audacity-of-hope/article33317985.ece
13 December 2020||December 13 2020 00:00 IST,||The enchantress of Naples||It could be the air around Naples which breeds legends. Ancient myths crawl out of the Mediterranean and fill its crevices with hungry stories. The war-torn Naples as brought to life by the Italian writer, Alberto Moravia, is a city of betrayals — from Christianity, from fascism, from communism, but, more precisely, from itself. History has rarely been kind to Naples. Ferocious desires It’s in this cauldron of unfulfilled desires that Elena Ferrante has set her stories, rising almost like a female version of Moravia. Ferrante locates the four Neapolitan novels in the 1950s. Women are just beginning to shed their traditional role as home-makers; artists and writers debate about where they belong. Communism is the golden apple, while at every street corner there is a poster for the capitalist way of life, usually with a drug peddler standing beneath it. Even though parts of the quartet have now been made into films, televised serials and plays, Ferrante herself prefers to hide behind her pseudonym. Leaving the question of ‘Who is the real Ferrante?’ to others, we can revel in her latest outing. Once again, the reader is trapped in a familiar Ferrante world of deep desires and a ferocious need to be heard. Giovanna has just turned 13 when the novel begins. She overhears her parents talking. Her father, whom she has adored, confesses to her mother that he fears that their daughter is becoming ugly. He compares her to his sister, Vittoria. It’s a name that has never been mentioned in their household until then. The name and its suggestion of the physical loss of innocence or beauty creates the first of the many upheavals that will torment Giovanna. We already know from the first line that the family will be split or violently torn apart. Never mind that it’s the same story in almost all of Ferrante’s novels. Her depiction of the duality that divides Naples, created by access, or the lack of it, to money and education, is reflected in the twinned lives of her characters. One girl may begin as beautiful and clever, the other not so gifted, until due to fate, or by Ferrante’s own desire to control the narrative, their trajectories are switched. Here the comparison is between the young Giovanna and the much older, coarse, impoverished, and domineering Vittoria. Impassioned arguments What links them is a golden bracelet, which, we are told, Vittoria gifted to the infant Giovanna. The bracelet is another familiar, almost magical device, that occurs in many of Ferrante’s novels in different forms. Here its meaning hovers delicately between the possessiveness of intense love and the carnality of sexual attraction. Are they opposed to each other or are they the same? Ferrante leaves the question hanging in the air. There are impassioned arguments between Giovanna and Roberto, a deeply engaging young aspirant to priesthood, who offers her the consolation of Christian belief. They form some of the most bitter passages of the novel as Giovanna dismisses the message of the Gospel as ineffectual. Giovanna’s passion crackles as she chooses her very own form of exaltation, sexual gratification, but then so do all of Ferrante’s heroines. In Nikos Kazantzakis’s novel, The Last Temptation of Christ , Jesus on the cross is offered a last reprieve by the Devil. He chooses “the temptation of happiness”. Even as a confirmed Ferrante groupie, I must note that her heroines tend to opt for a much lower form of exaltation. But we will not complain that she does not vary her stories except in the telling. As Moravia once said: “Every true writer is like a bird; he repeats the same song, the same theme, all his life. For me, this theme has always been revolt.” As an aside, I must mention that the most famous of Moravia’s novels, Two Women , is a harrowing depiction of war as it affects the lives of a mother-daughter duo and that Sophia Loren played the mother in Vittorio de Sica’s film adaptation. And that Loren, the most famous of Neapolitan women, has returned to the screen at the age of 86. Viva Naples and its feisty women is all we can add. The reviewer is a Chennai-based critic and cultural commentator.  The Lying Life of Adults  Elena Ferrante, trs Ann Goldstein  Europa Editions  Rs. 699    Giovanna’s passion crackles as she chooses her very own form of exaltation, sexual gratification, but then so do all of Ferrante’s heroines||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-enchantress-of-naples/article33317965.ece
13 December 2020||December 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Shoot or scoot||By his own admission, Swedish author Fredrik Backman found his new novel, Anxious People , the most difficult one to finish. While reading the book, I couldn’t help going back to a long, self-reflective essay he wrote on his website about his long-standing battles with anxiety and depression. Did I search for traces of Backman’s demons in his new book? Yes, I did. Did I find any? Not at first, for while the world that Backman creates in Anxious People is full of anxious people, they are all so neatly delineated and caricatured that you forget about real life initially. And you laugh. Laugh out aloud, especially after reading the first couple of pages. A complicated day The story is anchored in a typical small Swedish town. Though Backman doesn’t put a name to it, it could very well be the Swedish town where I live. As in most countries, small-town residents treat the folks from the big city — ‘Stockholmers’ in this case — with disdain. The story begins with a hostage drama, which was supposed to be a bank robbery. The hostage-taker, frustrated with his life — he is short on rent, and without a place to live he risks losing the custody of his child — had set out to rob a bank. The bank turns out to be a cashless one, as most banks are these days. At his wits’ end now, he ends up taking hostage a bunch of people who have come for an apartment viewing nearby. “I’m having quite a complicated day here!” he exclaims at the beginning of the drama. The hostages include Zara, who views apartments to assuage her loneliness; an 87-year old woman, Estelle, who is the least scared and sympathises with the hostage-taker; two couples, one quite a mismatched pair and the other a lesbian duo expecting a baby. They are competing with one another to buy the apartment. Having lived in Sweden for more than a decade, I can confirm that apartment-hunting in Sweden is a competitive sport. You lose if you don’t move fast and bid hard. Bits and pieces of us As the situation worsens, the cops — a father-son duo, Jim and Jack — arrive on the scene. They have never dealt with a case like this before and have to Google to find out what to do next. They try to find clues by interviewing the freed hostages about the alleged hostage-taker, who has gone missing, leaving a trail of blood in his wake. While some may find the number of characters overwhelming, it helps that Backman is a master of characterisation. He keeps them simple and exaggerates their oddness, in the process teaching us a few lessons about love and compassion. By the end, we see our own bits and pieces in the characters, who may not be all that likeable at first. Some may call this book a dark comedy. It may seem so on the surface. But I would rather bucket it under the philosophy section, for Backman deftly touches upon a few real issues, such as love, marriage and parenthood, among others. It helps that he is funny and his narrative is simple — it keeps the novel light and non-preachy. The reviewer is based out of Malmö in Sweden.  Anxious People Fredrik Backman Penguin Random House  Rs. 699    While the world that Backman creates inAnxious Peopleis full of anxious people, they are all so neatly delineated that you forget about real life initially||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/shoot-or-scoot/article33317967.ece
13 December 2020||December 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Stop thief||Boldly kickstarting two new imprints, Westland has simultaneously launched four crime novels by three debutants — Gautam Mengle and Gabriel Khan are mentored by veteran crime reporter S. Hussain Zaidi, and Jigs Ashar by pulp-master Ravi Subramanian. The outcome may turn out to be a market success since these paperbacks are eminently suitable for newcomers to the genre — they are nicely cosy, asexual bordering on neutered, and largely non-violent, save for the sporadic creepy moment. To the latter category belong the horrific hangovers as portrayed by Mengle in Intersections , which features API Mhatre, a policeman driven to drink by inner demons. He wakes up “sprawled out on the floor somewhere between the bathroom and the living room, with no memory of how he had ended up there. The fact that he was facing away from the bathroom indicated that he had been on his way back after relieving himself, and the absence of any bruises on his body signified that he had not fallen, or not fallen hard.” Except for such perturbing deductive moments, there are few thrills because Mengle attempts to portray police work realistically: “A city like Mumbai, with its horrendous traffic and bad roads, had next to nil scope for high-speed chases.” Interrogations are sedate, unlike the lock-up torture in movies, while “shootouts had ended with the encounter era.” He claims that the “average policeman spends hours of his professional life filling out paperwork or on patrol duty so boring and monotonous that it can hardly be described,” and yet the crime reporter in Mengle persists with his purpose “to present a more accurate depiction of policing”. Gangs of Mumbai Does this make for dull reading? Yes, but… While as a novel Intersections veers towards the pedantic, it shows, importantly, how policing rests increasingly not on hardware like handguns but on software such as WhatsApp, for information-sharing, and Truecaller to pinpoint nexuses between history-sheeters. Even though a non-thrilling thriller, Intersections can’t be ignored as it belongs to the fairly unexplored genre within Indian pulp — police procedurals. Generally speaking, procedurals show teamwork, so rather than focusing on a hero, plots revolve around squads. Mengle describes CCTV “reverse tracking”, SIM-tracing and trawling through CDRs (whatever those are), which aren’t quite as entertaining as the 1950s procedurals in which cops pounded pavements and staked out dingy dens — remember McBain’s 87th Precinct series? Where Intersections fails more seriously is in Mengle’s attempts to insert emotions. Sensitive episodes are mostly reduced to hammy ho-humming in overplayed Bollywood style, socially distanced romantic scenes, characters robotically stating how they’re scared — none of which automatically builds interest. More satisfactorily for wham-bam-thank-u-ma’am bibliophiles, another Zaidi protégé, Khan, tells of Mumbai gang wars spilling over to Bangkok (vaguely based on true events) in his Assassins . The plot follows multiple Indian assassins descending on the Thai capital to take down a don: one gunman is sent by a rival gangster, another is an undercover encounter specialist from Mumbai police, there’s a feminist hitwoman hired by corporates, and a government-sanctioned extradition team. Obviously, it’s hard to remember who’s who among the huge cast since they’re sketchily drawn. But to Khan’s credit, the contrived dramatic symmetry (reminiscent of multi-player virtual shootouts) propels readers towards the finale, making Assassins the perfect airport read while waiting, say, to board one’s delayed/ cancelled flight to Thailand. Wild goose chase A competing list marketed under the edgy heading ‘Shortz’ is described by Subramanian (in his foreword) as “thrillers on steroids. There isn’t a slow moment…” Such tall claims make for a promising start to Ashar’s A Brutal Hand and the chapters are indeed rarely longer than a page or three, living up to the series title. Unfortunately, this doesn’t make the pace racy. Instead, the descriptive space shrinks: we barely enter a scene before we’re out of it, character development is naught, locations are hazy, whilst the novice novelist is so prone to jumping the gun that important plot points remain underdeveloped. I’m left with a feeling of being taken on a wild goose chase or force-fed shaggy-dog food. Besides, Ashar is a banker and unsurprisingly his take on Mumbai reads as if he’s auditing municipal infrastructure ahead of a master plan upgrade. Such as when a chawl is introduced as a “residential building unique to Mumbai, especially the northern and central parts, constructed in the early 1900s to provide affordable housing”, or, in Wikipediatric manner, “Bombay Government Hospital, founded in the early 1900s, is located in the central suburb of Parel in Mumbai. With more than 500 resident doctors and 2,200 beds, it is one of the biggest”. Ashar also released Insomnia , a Gothic horror cliché. The lone link is that both novels deal with psychiatric cases. But they lack psychological insight, so maybe Ashar should have first taken the aforementioned steroids before putting pen to paper. The reviewer’s latest thriller isTropical Detective.  Intersections Gautam S. Mengle  Westland  Rs. 399    Intersectionsshows, importantly, how policing rests increasingly not on hardware like handguns but on software such as WhatsApp and Truecaller||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/stop-thief/article33317972.ece
13 December 2020||December 13 2020 00:00 IST,||We have too much democracy||I don’t know why people are coy about saying it out loud and proud. I don’t know why someone who has said it in a speech, not once but twice, quite clearly, should then try and retract and deny and do all this criss-crossing of legs: ‘I said it’, ‘I didn’t say it’, ‘I said it, but what I meant was’, ‘I half said it, but what I half meant was’, ‘I never actually said that, that is not what I said’, ‘mischievous people are misrepresenting’ and so on and so forth. Here, let me just say it for you: In India, we have too much democracy and this government, from Day One, has been dedicated to the task of reducing this blight on our nation with the single-minded aim of eradicating it completely! Also: No government has done as much towards removing democracy, towards uprooting it completely, as this government has! Previous governments may have tried, but they were ultimately lily-livered, they only half did, or part did and then fell into the trap of trying to please the people! So, as Niti Aayog’s Amitabh Kant makes it clear, unlike previous governments this government is determined to push five companies to become Global Champions! Because we need them to be Global Champions without letting what the people of India want to get in the way! For too long people’s needs have sabotaged India’s grand ambitions! Clear chronology High appointees of this regime can add: The focus shown by the ruling combination is an inspiration to all who work under them! From the beginning the chronology has been clear: use this too-much democracy to capture power, doesn’t matter if you have only 31% of vote share for your party and 38.5% for your alliance; if that allows you to get into the driver’s seat you are allowed to drive the bus off the cliff. In the next four years you are to pay no heed to the vast majority of the population who did not vote for you (if you actually believed in democracy you would); till the time the next elections come around, you maintain the facade of democracy while hollowing out its political institutions. While shouting about the evils of corruption you bring in the mother of corruption-encouraging legislation with electoral bonds; and since the checks and balances are crippled no one can effectively challenge the law legally. So, with ten times more money than your rival parties, you can come in with an even bigger majority in the next elections. And even if with all your machinations you can’t manage more than 37.4% vote share for yourself and 45% for your larger syndicate, you can proceed to claim that all 1.3 billion Indians are behind you each time you do something outrageous. In the meantime that pesky import from the West, that damned democracy, is degrading nicely and rapidly. Just as money pulls in more money, disaster attracts more disaster, delusion-fuelled self-destruction fuels more delusion leading to deeper self-destruction — ek dhakka aur doh . Strata of complicity The thing is, the regime is buoyed by a creamy layer of self-serving hypocrites and delusional Trickle-Down addicts in various positions of power and wealth. Actually, you could say the rulers and their various Gauleiters are in the position they are, doing what they are, because of this thick strata of complicit, unquestioning upper and middle-class people. For them, the protests against the CAA-NRC were ‘purely obstructionist’, no matter that huge discrimination against Muslims was being made into law. For them, the JNU, Jamia and AMU students were ‘asking for trouble’ and so deserved to have thugs walking in under police auspices to beat up the students. For them, ‘some of the farmers’ demands have merit but how dare the farmers threaten to block all roads to Delhi? Round up their leaders!’ One of them even says, “Believe you me, I hate the Modi government for its focus on Hindutva, which actually goes against the grain of Hindu philosophy, but I can’t fault them for trying in bring in some good change.” What this last commentator of the WhatsApp world doesn’t understand is that there is no ‘good change’ in the pipeline. Everything stems from the ‘focus on Hindutva’, the allergy to ‘too much democracy’, and the one-point agenda of achieving a janatantra-mukt Bharat .  From the beginning the chronology has been clear: use this too-much democracy to capture power||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/we-have-too-much-democracy/article33318000.ece
13 December 2020||December 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Easy like Sunday morning||1Marketing genius Charles Forster noticed young boys outside his hotel selling small sticks made of Spanish willow on his trip to Brazil. He returned to Boston in 1870 and set up a mass production factory to make this item using birch as a material, because it was tasteless. What did Forster start selling on a large scale that humans had been using since the times of the Neanderthals? 2This is the only modern English letter whose name has more than one syllable and the only English letter whose name is not pronounced with any of the sounds that the letter typically makes in words. It usually represents a consonant, but in some languages it represents a vowel. What letter is this that is also the only one represented by a beverage in the NATO phonetic alphabet? 3This country is in one of the earliest known inhabited regions, dating back 8000 years. For the last three centuries it has been ruled by monarchs with the title ‘Sultan’. All buildings in the capital are required to be white in colour unless they have prior permission, which leads to the city having a clean and neat look all around. Which country is this in the Arabian Peninsula that is the only one in the world whose name starts with a certain letter? 4This game was first mentioned in the 1672 Book of Games where the author describes it as a ‘play with a piece of tile... play upon any area divided into oblong figures like boards’. In Puerto Rico, these playing areas are supposed to refer to the nine circles a stranger has to pass through to enter heaven as in the Divine Comedy by Dante. This game is known by different names; escargot, peevers, pabats, nondi etc. What is this game that you probably encountered for the first time at school, and which gets its name from the physical action you need to do? 5This musical instrument has seen a recent rise in popularity after its prominent use in TikTok videos. Although the small stringed instrument is of Portuguese origin, its name comes from Hawaiian, as it became famous in Hawai’i. The name literally means ‘jumping flea’, in reference to the way in which a skilled player’s hands rapidly move across the four strings. What instrument is this that resembles a tiny guitar? 6This is a type of spread originally known as ‘Supercrema gianduja’, made from hazelnuts, cocoa and palm oil, which was first sold in Alba, an Italian town known for hazelnuts. In 1963, Michele Ferrero gave it its current name and it became an instant success; it is currently available in 160 countries. Its sister companies are Ferrero Rocher, Kinder and Tic Tac. What spread is this that is one of the most popular breakfast additions to bread? 7In politics this is a formal deliberative assembly that has been seen in the Holy Roman Empire, Imperial Germany and modern Japan. The term probably comes from Classical Greek for ‘way of living’ or ‘regular daily work’. The other theory is that it comes from Medieval Latin for ‘daily food allowance’. This second version exists till this day in another form that is well known to all of us. What word is this that will remind the Japanese of politicsm, and us of some tough times controlling ourselves? 8This animal belongs to the deer family and is found in those regions of Europe, Asia and North America that are in the Arctic Circle. It is unique in that both the female and male grow antlers (unlike other species where only the males do). The only difference is that the males shed their antlers in winter and the females do so in spring. They also have the ability to see ultraviolet light, which helps them spot predators in the snowy environment. What animal is this that becomes popular around this time? 9On December 13, 1972, astronauts Eugene Cernan and Harrison Schmitt began the third and final EVA of the Apollo Program. Till date they are the last humans to have ever set foot on a surface other than our home planet. What does EVA stand for and what is the popular name for it? 10An acrostic is a form of writing that features a hidden (usually) secret message. The term comes from the Ancient Greek word that means ‘highest, topmost’. In what direction do you have to read to get this hidden message, and what edition of ‘Easy Like Sunday Morning’ is this? A molecular biologist from Madurai, our quizmaster enjoys trivia and music, and is working on a rock ballad called ‘Coffee is a Drink, Kaapi is an Emotion’. @bertyashley||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/easy-like-sunday-morning/article33318004.ece
13 December 2020||December 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Managing the boss||Vikram Seth and Mira Nair may not know it, but the quest for a suitable boss has more twists than the hunt for a suitable boy. One reason this is a tricky business is that bosses mutate (that’s why there are no vaccines against them). Some are wise, some supervise; some mean well, others are, well, mean. There are bosses whom you look up to, and those you need to watch out for. Since you never know which of the above you are going to draw in the office lottery, it makes sense to be prepared for all of them, and their mutations. Alas, management schools teach finance, HR and marketing, but not that most vital skill of all — managing your boss. (Even Salman Khan doesn’t tell you this, despite this being Season Umpteen of Big Boss). Another planet The first thing you need to know is that bosses belong to another planet. When you are talking about antakshari , they will talk about opera. If you describe a scuffle at the bus stop, they will turn to rising levels of intolerance. If you complain about canteen food, they will tell you that an avocado meets all nutritional needs. The sooner you understand this difference of attitude and altitude, the easier it will be for you to move up the rungs. It’s a mistake to believe that these men and women from Mars are always critical of what you do. Actually, the boss often loves your idea so much he adopts it and makes it his own. So, the perspective plan you have slogged over for days will, with a few punctuations added, emerge with his initials on them. You ought to be happy — appropriation is the sincerest form of flattery. Next, learn to read your boss’s mind. This is difficult but not impossible. Experience and acute observation will give you tell-tale indications of his ideological leanings, pet peeves, magnificent obsessions, Achilles heel… Having all this pat is like having a Google Map to his thought patterns. You are then on sure ground when he asks for your “frank” opinion. Knowing his likely choices, you simply have to align your own view with his to be considered a cultured executive with artistic sensibilities. Ergo, promotable. Just as there are no perfect human beings, there are no impartial bosses. Being a favourite translates into a lighter workload, less chances of earning your boss’s wrath on a bad morning, and more prospects of being nominated to receive an award. But remember, there will be a price to pay. When a new boss takes over the reins, all the old favourites automatically become persona non grata . Delegation is second nature to men and women in high places. My boss once told me that when it came to minor jobs, he delegated them to his juniors. When it came to major jobs, he delegated them as well — for how else would the juniors ever learn? That’s how the system works. It’s been borrowed from the social structure of bees which, as you know, has a queen bee who lords it over while a swarm does all the real work. (I think that’s why management schools are called “B schools”). If you are part of the swarm, just bide your time. By then you will know so many tricks of the trade that you would have found a suitable boss — yourself. jairam.menon@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/managing-the-boss/article33317952.ece
13 December 2020||December 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Like father, like son||The greying, diminutive man first appeared just days after we moved into our new house in the suburbs. The early-morning knocks on the gate with a shade of authority first annoyed me and then, after a second look, the short chubby-faced man in his olive shirt with shoulder flaps kindled my curiosity. In January 2004, I had then returned from military service and was just about settling into our new neighbourhood. “Sir, I am the gurkha of this area,” he introduced himself in a heavy Malayalam accent. “Good,” I replied expressing my delight, in chaste Hindi, and the man was overjoyed. We soon found ourselves striking up a little conversation and the affable stranger reassured me the locality I had chosen was safe and peaceful. He said his roots were in a mountain-village in Nepal and his father, who was a “batman” to a British officer, first came to Malabar during the colonial era. He said he didn’t have any fixed fee, but contributions from residents helped keep his family afloat in a shack. As soon as the man left, one of my neighbours called me aside to say, “This man is a fraud. He goes all around the city and claims he is the guard of each locality. The night before he comes for his monthly collection he turns up here and makes some noises.” I had earlier noticed the “gurkha” skipping the gentleman’s house. In fact, my alert neighbour’s timely warning was spot on. Soon, I started noticing the man in different parts of the city. Once in a while, we would “hear” his visitation, his high-pitched whistle in the dead of the night, his “lathi” knock (he never carried the traditional Kukri) on asphalt, and the next morning you are sure of seeing him at your door. Once I did question him about this. “It is true that I cover a large area. Then, residents give me only a pittance. But don’t worry sir, I make surprise visits and you know the miscreants fear this unpredictability.” Somewhere around the COVID-19 outbreak, he stopped popping up. Then his absenteeism was a non-event when the world at large was in the doldrums. A few days ago, I heard the doorbell ringing and I saw a boy hardly out of his teens in a “gurkha” uniform. “My father used to come here.” He had a better command of Malayalam. “Where is your father?” “He is no more. We had been to our village in Nepal. My father died there.” A jolt and then silence! I go inside and come back with my regular contribution. The boy salutes and departs. I stand watching him going out nonchalantly; the baton passes on. harichitrakootam@yahoo.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/like-father-like-son/article33317956.ece
13 December 2020||December 13 2020 00:00 IST,||A friendship that shaped two lives across continents||Benazir knew her as ‘Vicks’; Victoria sent notes to her friend ‘B’. They met as students and their friendship encompassed almost all their adult lives. It ended only when Benazir Bhutto’s life was ended by a suicide attack in Rawalpindi in December 2007. Over the years, Victoria Schofield provided many services for her friend: legal typist; ghost writer; press officer; passer-on of messages from Princess Di (who shared the same London hairdresser as Benazir). She was, at Benazir’s instigation, part of Pakistan’s delegation to a Commonwealth conference. She accompanied Benazir’s son, Bilawal, on his first day as a student at Oxford. Through thick and thin All these tasks were taken on out of friendship. This is not a biography — it is, in the author’s words, ‘my tribute to a friend’. Benazir valued Victoria because she was loyal, fun, undeferential — someone who stood by her at the most difficult moments, when her father was awaiting execution and when she was in detention and in exile. For Victoria, the friendship shaped her life and introduced her to South Asia, about which she has written so extensively. Victoria met Benazir within days of going to Oxford in 1974. They became allies in the elitist Oxford Union debating society and were elected Union president in successive terms. Victoria is well connected; she also has a raw courage. It was no small thing for a new graduate to head out to a part of the world she didn’t know and to spend almost a year there striving to save Zulfikar Ali Bhutto and to keep up her friend’s spirits. When, some years later, Victoria was refused entry to Pakistan, an Air India plane was ordered to turn around in mid-air to pick her up from Karachi airport. On arrival at Delhi, the Sikh pilot sought her out: “What!... This little girl is such a threat to General Zia that my plane and my passengers had to be so inconvenienced?” On Benazir’s fateful return to Pakistan in 2007, Victoria travelled with her. They were on the same campaign truck in Karachi when a suicide bomber struck on October 17 — both survived, but 150 or more people died. Schofield’s account powerfully captures the shock and terror of that attack. Benazir was killed in another attack on December 27. Beyond death Victoria Schofield’s loyalty to her old friend extends beyond death. Confidences continue to be respected. We hear about the trademark yellow sports car which Benazir drove around Oxford but not about her boyfriends. The controversies that blighted Benazir’s political career — the allegations of corruption, the breach with her brother and mother, the difficulties within her marriage — are all mentioned, though briefly. Benazir’s version is given. No more is said. Sometimes the recitation of what is often humdrum about a friendship feels repetitious. But it succeeds in depicting how the web of shared experiences kept the friendship alive, even during long periods when they were unable to meet. Schofield declares in her introduction that the book is ‘my testament to her bravery and courage’. Whatever your judgment on Benazir Bhutto, she was certainly brave.  The reviewer, a former BBC India correspondent, teaches at the Asian College of Journalism in Chennai.  The Fragrance of Tears: My Friendship with Benazir Bhutto  Victoria Schofield  Head of Zeus  £8.99    When, some years later, Victoria was refused entry to Pakistan, an Air India plane was ordered to turn around in mid-air to pick her up from Karachi airport||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/a-friendship-that-shaped-two-lives-across-continents/article33317980.ece
13 December 2020||December 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Batting for the underdog||The dhole, or Asian wild dog, suffers from an undeserved bad reputation, says Arjun Srivathsa. It doesn’t lack in the looks department. Its rich russet fur and bushy black-tipped tail make it a handsome animal, an asset not lost on the researcher who is also an artist. It whistles through its nose to locate other members of its pack. It also whines, screeches, and growls, but it cannot bark or howl like a dog. Unlike tigers, leopards, and wolves, the dhole doesn’t eye people as prey. Yet, throughout the colonial era, writers, hunters, and foresters slandered the species as a marauder of livestock and game. They claimed game animals feared its presence so much, they fled when they caught wind of its presence. Much of the prejudice reserved for the animal appears to come down to its manner of hunting. A solitary dhole can snatch a hare on its own. But when a pack brings down large animals like sambhar, nilgai, and gaur, the dhole’s weak jaws are incapable of snapping the neck or choking the windpipe as tigers and leopards do. Instead, the pack eviscerates and tears chunks of flesh immediately even as the prey’s piteous agonised screams rend the air. The messy kill appears inhumane and unsportsmanlike. Since dholes most often hunt by day, when their behaviour is more visible, horrified human observers branded the species as savage and bloodthirsty. Big disaster Across the country, hunters shot the animals on sight for bounties. Diseases and loss of forests added to the dholes’ woes. Villagers stole their kills, forcing the tired animals to hunt again. Entire packs were exterminated, and swathes of land cleared of them. Despite humans behaving abominably towards them, the animals may have benefited farming communities. In the early 1980s, poisoning of dholes across Bhutan led to wild boar numbers increasing. Farmers were forced to stay awake at nights to keep watch over their crops. Since the 1990s, dholes have recolonised many areas of the country, keeping pig numbers in check. Forest friendly Typically, species that hunt as a pack such as the African wild dogs prefer open savannas. Dholes, however, rely on forests even more so than tigers, which can survive in a variety of terrain, says Srivathsa. Even as jungles disappear, the animals avoid areas where livestock graze or people harvest wild produce. Instead of prey making themselves scarce in mortal fear as colonial hunters alleged, perhaps the long history of persecution makes dholes sensitive to the presence of humans. When Srivathsa had to choose his study subject for his doctoral research, he opted for this species. “The dhole is the only endangered large carnivore besides the tiger,” he says. “But why is no one studying it? Why isn’t more conservation work being done? Why doesn’t it receive more awareness? I wanted to bat for the underdog.” Before he began his project, only three to four researchers had studied the species over the previous four decades. During his fieldwork, Srivathsa watched a pack of seven dholes attacking a chital doe at Bandipur National Park, Karnataka. Two held its mouth while the others attacked its hindquarters. Death came in minutes. They took turns standing on guard while the other feasted. “The whole thing was like watching a speeded up film,” he recalls. “Within 15 minutes, the standing chital was reduced to just bones. In real life, you only get glimpses of what’s happening. It’s not as gory as watching a wildlife documentary which offers a clear view.” Sated, the animals sprawled under bushes for close to an hour to catch their breath after the exertion of the hunt and the frenzy of feeding. Then they all rose, yawned and stretched, and melted into the forest. Instead of being disturbed by the episode, Srivathsa continues to remain sympathetic. The daunting challenge of re-branding the species’ horrendous public image is bound to keep Srivathsa occupied for years to come.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/batting-for-the-underdog/article33318015.ece
13 December 2020||December 13 2020 00:00 IST,||How to keep the home fires burning||Dear Agony Akka,  When everything about a marriage is near-perfect — except for one single department centred around a sensory pleasure — how might one address the deficiency with wisdom? I have been married two years now and I love everything about my wife: she’s smart, loving, and she makes me laugh. But she has one big wifely failing. (No, no, it’s not what you think: in that department, it’s all good and the earth moves every time — for both of us.) Her failing: she is a terrible cook and seems unaware of just how bad she is. My initial hopes that she would get better with time have not come to pass. Lately, I have tried hinting that we should hire a full-time cook, but she insists on taking the stomach route to my already captured heart. I love her dearly, but my insides are planning a Shaheen Bagh-type uprising. What to do? — Need A Little Appetiser   Dear NALA,  With a name like that, the answer to your question seems self-evident, but it seems to me you are more inclined to employing a full-time kitchen aide. It’s not a bad idea in itself but purely to point out the due diligence protocol you will have to observe, let me tell you what having a full-time cook entails. My parents had just such a helper when I was growing up: Govindamma (aka ‘Gem’) was their cook for nearly 25 years. My amma used to say, only half in jest, that Gem was the mother-in-law she never had. It sometimes seemed to us that Gem had internalised the belief that she was the Kitchen Goddess, and we — her supplicants — were tolerated in the household only at her pleasure. But so delicious were the gastronomic repasts she plied us with that we readily yielded to the extra-constitutional temporal authority she wielded around the house. And we made light of her idiosyncracies. For the most part. There was, however, one quirk that we slowly discovered, which sometimes impacted her workplace performance and tested our relationship severely. It turned out that Gem was a card-carrying member of the Congress party and was emotionally invested in its political fortunes. Now, something like that shouldn’t have mattered in our household, given that my parents were broadly liberal in outlook. But being non-partisan, they were not entirely in touch with everyday electoral fortunes of political parties. Whereas Gem followed each poll diligently. This had disastrous consequences. On days that the Congress lost any election — at the national, State, or even Panchayat level — we could divine it without reading the papers. Cooking utensils would clang and clutter at markedly high decibels — as if the entire neighbourhood were banging thali s in response to a prime ministerial edict. The sambar would be too salty, the vegetables burnt, the meat mushy. It got to a stage where I was assigned the task of hiding the daily newspapers so that bad news would not flow to Gem. In a pre-Internet, pre-24x7-television, pre-WhatsApp age — yes, my little chickadees, such a golden era did exist — such ‘news blackouts’ were easy to enforce. The point, dear NALA, is this: if you’re looking at a full-time cook as the answer to your stomach’s desperate need for solace, make sure you screen her for political preferences. If you employ another Gem, you’ll likely have to endure many burnt offerings, given the Congress’ infinite capacity to lose elections at every level. I can then see you writing another ‘Dear Agony Akka’ mail. Infinitely better that you live up to your name, NALA, and take charge of the hearth. After all, from your own account, you seem to be doing a satisfactory job of keeping the home fires burning... — AA  agony.akka@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/how-to-keep-the-home-fires-burning/article33318002.ece
13 December 2020||December 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Espen excellence||Norway’s Espen Lindqvist is considered one of the world’s best declarers. We have featured him in this space before. He was South in today’s deal. Declarer played low from dummy on the opening heart lead. East won with his king and shifted to the jack of diamonds, captured by dummy’s ace. Lindqvist led a spade to his ace and ran the nine of spades as West correctly refused to split his honors. A heart to dummy’s ace was followed by a low diamond, won by West with the queen. West, out of red cards, shifted to the jack of clubs, won by South with the king. Lindqvist cashed the queen of hearts and led a diamond to the king, leaving this position: (Grid 2) Lindqvist cashed dummy’s king of spades and continued with the 10 of spades. West won but had to give declarer the queen of clubs for his ninth trick. Beautifully played!||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/espen-excellence/article33318008.ece
13 December 2020||December 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Engaging with dissenting ideas||All democracies take pride in protecting free speech. Space for dissent is what differentiates a democracy from a dictatorship. But even in democratic societies, dissenters do not have it easy. Some get killed for their views (Narendra Dabholkar, M.M. Kalburgi, Gauri Lankesh come to mind), some end up in jail (Anand Teltumbde, Umar Khalid), while those neither killed nor jailed are marginalised. As a result, they are frequently misunderstood. Their ideas don’t get the currency they deserve. This book seeks to remedy this by profiling seven dissenters: Arundhati Roy, Oliver Stone, Kancha Ilaiah, David Irving, Yanis Varoufakis, U.G. Krishnamurti and John Pilger. Each chapter is devoted to one individual. The author T.T. Ram Mohan, a professor of finance and economics at the Indian Institute of Management, Ahmedabad, has a two-fold objective: to summarise the work of these dissenters, and to engage with their ideas critically. He does an excellent job of the first. He falters sometimes in the second, owing primarily to the constraints of his own worldview, which he neglects to articulate upfront. But he never fails to be less than engaging. Wide range The stupendous range of subjects covered — from the political economy of large dams and the bombing of Dresden to the future of the European Union, the military-industrial complex, the coups of Latin America, the nature of enlightenment — makes this a rewarding read. It is not often that a single book can prod the reader to question several stereotypes. For instance, what does it really mean to say that China is a “communist dictatorship” while the U.S. is a democracy? Journalist John Pilger interviews a Chinese businessman who debunks this truism thus: “In the U.S., he says, you can change parties but you can’t change policies; in China, you can’t change parties but you can change policies.” Ram Mohan is at his best when engaging with themes related to military history, international politics, and spiritual philosophy. The chapters on maverick historian David Irving (especially the sections on the Nuremberg trials and the siege of Stalingrad), Oliver Stone, (whose films on Edward Snowden, Vladimir Putin, Wall Street and American exceptionalism hold a mirror to his country’s ruling class), journalist John Pilger (and his films on Palestine, the West’s hostility to China, and Mandela’s politics in post-apartheid South Africa), and U.G. Krishnamurti (the ‘anti-guru’ who rubbished the whole idea of enlightenment as a spiritual experience) are a fascinating tour de force. But his critical assessments are less persuasive when it comes to people and topics closer home. For instance, he is quick to dismiss Roy’s critique of neoliberal development and sees more value in her courage than in her ideas. Oblivious to how the structural nature of oppression inflects the political speech of the oppressed — writers like Franz Fanon have dwelled on this — he describes Ilaiah’s criticism of the bania community as “prejudice”. Exasperated by Varoufakis, a staunch critic of capitalism, he writes, “Like Arundhati Roy, Varoufakis looks at the world around him and finds that almost everything is wrong with it.” But seriously, isn’t almost everything wrong with the world? If this question is a matter of debate today, the credit must go entirely to people like those profiled in this book.  Rebels with a Cause: Famous Dissenters and Why They are Not Being Heard T.T. Ram Mohan Penguin Random House  Rs. 599||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/engaging-with-dissenting-ideas/article33317982.ece
13 December 2020||December 13 2020 00:00 IST,||The Sunday Crossword No. 3128||Across  1 Source of ice cream – indulgence, they say – somewhere in NYC (4,6) 6 Trees where key limes regularly plucked (4) 9 Everyman’s invested in ... in smallest amounts of money to get carrots (10) 10 Deer will suffice (4) 12 A Greek character with liquor and a nudge: careful what you’re getting into here (1,3,2,1,4) 15 Eaves’ droppers? (7) 16 Eugene’s Israelite carrying part of Torah (7) 17 Pontoons needing love, once renovated constantly (3-4) 19 In favour of U2’s singer not getting any money (3,4) 20 Religious symbol, where dancing or pants are not common (6,5) 23 Sister’s outspoken; not at all! (4) 24 One who sells essence of rum, mixed with ice or neat(10) 25 Where you can see Asia’s grandest royal abode, primarily? (4) 26 Numbers overwhelm these whizzes (10)  Down  1 Hesitate to bring food to table (4) 2 Delicate fabric is ‘slightly irreplaceable’ (4) 3 Incredibly, last union not offering protection (6,6) 4 Oddly straying, priapic with lust and greed for sweet things (7) 5 Ironing, perhaps at end of day (7) 7 Novelist’s novel, O, To Sell Trifle (3,7) 8 Type of bridge in South America given means of support (10) 11 Prepared a burrito; won’t give you fish (7,5) 13 And a pig ferociously eats tiny creature to become enormous beast (5,5) 14 Technician: ‘A spot of sepia? Not unerasable’ (5,5) 18 Ace succeeding, old stance, getting to green area (7) 19 Uplifting quiet time with love, quietly offering support (7) 21 Confused vote delivering presidential power (4) 22 Regularly in bedrooms, making love (4)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-sunday-crossword-no-3128/article33318013.ece
13 December 2020||December 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Deboo no more||Pioneering contemporary dancer Astad Deboo passed away on Thursday at his home in Mumbai “after a brief illness, bravely borne,” his family announced on social media. He was 73. Renowned for his unique dance vocabulary, Deboo seamlessly combined Kathak, Kathakali and Western dance. He also worked with deaf children and started the Astad Deboo Dance Foundation for the marginalised and people with disabilities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/deboo-no-more/article33317942.ece
13 December 2020||December 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Bharat Bandh||Large parts of north India, especially Punjab, as well as Odisha, Telangana and Andhra Pradesh saw normal life disrupted in a Bharat Bandh called by farmers’ groups protesting against the three controversial agriculture laws. Some 50 lakh people nationwide reportedly took part in the bandh, which was supported by trade unions and political parties. Meanwhile, the protests in Delhi looked set to intensify as farmers rejected the Centre’s proposed amendments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/bharat-bandh/article33317944.ece
13 December 2020||December 13 2020 00:00 IST,||First jab||Flagging off the U.K.’s mass vaccination programme against the novel coronavirus, Margaret Keenan, a 90-year-old woman from Northern Ireland, became the world’s first person to receive the Pfizer/BioNTech COVID-19 vaccine. Meanwhile, in India, requests by the Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech for emergency use authorisation for their vaccines were put on hold by DCGI pending more data.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/first-jab/article33317946.ece
13 December 2020||December 13 2020 00:00 IST,||New House||Prime Minister Narendra Modi laid the foundation stone for the new Parliament building, which is to be constructed by Tata Projects Ltd. Expected to be finished by 2022 in time for the 75th Independence Day, its budget is Rs. 971 crore. With litigation pending against the Central Vista project, the Supreme Court permitted the ceremony only on condition that no construction or demolition would take place until it disposes of the pleas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/new-house/article33317948.ece
13 December 2020||December 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Cross Your Heart, Take My Name||Novoneel Chakraborty  Penguin Random House Rs. 199 Garv and Yahvi fall in love and decide to begin a new life somewhere far away. The day they are supposed to meet and escape, Yahvi doesn’t turn up. Later, when Garv stumbles upon her Instagram profile, he realises that each of her posts is probably a clue to the truth behind her disappearance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/cross-your-heart-take-my-name/article33317963.ece
13 December 2020||December 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Undercover in Bandipore||Ashok Kaul  Vitasta Publishing Pvt Ltd Rs. 365 Set in a time before the abrogation of article 370, this novel describes how Muslim families lost their moorings. A teenaged boy turns to militancy in a desperate quest for employment. A college-going girl is sent to JNU on an insidious agenda. The story looks back at Kashmir’s composite culture.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/undercover-in-bandipore/article33317974.ece
13 December 2020||December 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Ties that Tether||Jane Igharo  Berkley Rs. 1,232 At 12, Azere promised her dying father she would marry a Nigerian man and preserve her culture. Then she falls in love with a white man, Rafael. Azere is caught between her feelings for Rafael and the need to keep her promise to her parent. Does loving Rafael make her any less a Nigerian?||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/ties-that-tether/article33317976.ece
13 December 2020||December 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Jakarta Tails: The Continuing Adventures of Soyabean and Tofu||Pallavi Aiyar  HarperCollins Rs. 399 Soyabean and Tofu, two alley cats from Beijing, move to Jakarta with Mr. and Mrs. A, their human family. Just as they are settling in, they discover that under Indonesia’s surface calm, tensions are rife. The cats find themselves sucked into a fake news network before long.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/jakarta-tails-the-continuing-adventures-of-soyabean-and-tofu/article33317978.ece
13 December 2020||December 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Pakistan’s Terror Conundrum||Khaled Ahmed  Viking/Penguin  Rs. 599 In a collection of his writings, a journalist examines Pakistan’s policies regarding terrorism against the backdrop of increasing pressure from international organisations. He looks at the origins and activities of terrorist organisations, the role of the state and the ideology of its founding figures.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/pakistans-terror-conundrum/article33317987.ece
13 December 2020||December 13 2020 00:00 IST,||The Coolie’s Great War: Indian Labour in a Global Conflict, 1914-1921||Radhika Singha  HarperCollins  Rs. 699 Over 550,000 men in the ranks of the Indian army were non-combatants. From porters, stevedores and construction workers in the Coolie Corps to those who removed the wounded from the battlefield, Singha recovers the story.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-coolies-great-war-indian-labour-in-a-global-conflict-1914-1921/article33317989.ece
13 December 2020||December 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Age of Pandemics (1817-1920): How they Shaped India and the World||Chinmay Tumbe  HarperCollins  Rs. 599 Post COVID-19, a writer explores other pandemics the Indian subcontinent suffered, like the cholera, plague and influenza outbreaks that ravaged the world between 1817 and 1920. Tumbe unravels that period through memoirs, oral histories, statistics and maps.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/age-of-pandemics-1817-1920-how-they-shaped-india-and-the-world/article33317991.ece
13 December 2020||December 13 2020 00:00 IST,||India’s First Dictatorship: The Emergency, 1975-1977||Christophe Jaffrelot, Pratinav Anil  Hurst  £45 In June 1975, Prime Minister Indira Gandhi imposed a state of emergency, resulting in a 21-month suspension of democracy. Jaffrelot and Anil explore this period in India’s history, a constitutional dictatorship of unequal impact.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/indias-first-dictatorship-the-emergency-1975-1977/article33317993.ece
13 December 2020||December 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Can vaccines with EUA be used at the population level?||Pfizer’s mRNA vaccine has been approved for emergency use by the UK, Bahrain, Canada, Mexico and the U.S. The company has also applied for emergency use approval in India. The emergency use approval has been based on safety and efficacy data from limited follow-up. Vaccines tested and manufactured in India would take a little longer to reach the stage where data are available to support emergency use approval. Meanwhile, the Indian government has spelt out four high-risk groups — healthcare workers, frontline workers, those over 50 years of age and those aged below 50 years but with co-morbidities — would get the vaccine on priority. Most countries too identified the priority groups that would receive the vaccine first. Pfizer has already indicated that it plans to file for full FDA approval in April next year; it was granted an EUA by the U.S. FDA on December 11. Moderna and AstraZeneca too are likely to apply for full approval sometime next year once the trial is complete; vaccines from these two manufacturers are yet to be approved for emergency use by any country. In all likelihood, vaccines including the Indian ones granted emergency use approval in the next couple of months are likely to have safety and efficacy data to seek full approval at least by the end of next year. Eligibility questions With the focus on breaking the transmission chain by vaccinating a “critical mass of people”, the question is whether people who do not belong to the priority groups will be eligible to get the vaccine even before a full approval is granted. “The special authorisation for use of vaccines at the population level based on early/interim data should be done with adequate oversight and by paying adequate attention to the need for collecting data on safety, efficacy through good quality pharmacovigilance,” says Dr. Anant Bhan, a researcher in global health and bioethics in an email. He feels that it is not important for COVID-19 vaccines usage permission to be restricted only to high-risk populations if there is close oversight. Virologist Dr. Shahid Jameel, Director of the Trivedi School of Biosciences at Ashoka University too shares the same idea that vaccines approved for emergency use should be available to all. “My understanding is that EUA is given during public health emergencies. That emergency is the same for everyone,” he says in an email. “What is the point in developing vaccines while the pandemic is on and then not deploying them to control the pandemic? Seems silly.” Safety data Dr. Jameel then goes on to stress that safety data from limited follow-up would be sufficient even for universal vaccination. “When is safety testing enough? Data for many prior vaccines show that most adverse events take place within six weeks of immunisation. That is the logic for two months (US FDA) or 70 days (Europe Medicines Agency) waiting before EUA is granted,” Dr. Jameel says. Evidence-based usage However, Dr. Giridhara Babu, epidemiologist with the Public Health Foundation of India, Bengaluru does not agree with universal vaccination based on emergency use approval. “Full approval is needed before beginning universal vaccination. Mass vaccination with any vaccine for which only partial data is available is unethical,” Dr. Babu says in an email. “Evidence-based implementation is essential for mass vaccination. Therefore, vaccines that have only emergency use approval cannot be considered for mass vaccination.” Also, the DCGI has to clarify under what rule will it grant permissions for widespread usage since emergency use approval is not as such mentioned in Indian drugs/vaccines related laws and rules, says Dr. Bhan. But no country including India has plans for widespread vaccination based on emergency use approval. Also, the high-risk groups in India earmarked for vaccination on a priority basis once vaccines get emergency use approval works out to 300 million people. It might very well take a year to vaccinate the priority groups. In mid-November, Serum had manufactured 40 million doses and was to soon begin making Novavax vaccine. Clinical trials of other vaccines are currently under way in India. Vaccines such as the ones tested by Pfizer and Moderna will be expensive when available in India and might not be used by the government to vaccinate high-risk groups. Pfizer had however told the media that it would not make the vaccine available in the private market during the pandemic phase. The question really is whether such vaccines with emergency use approval should be available in the open market for anyone to purchase and get vaccinated, says Dr. Jameel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/can-vaccines-with-eua-be-used-at-the-population-level/article33318111.ece
13 December 2020||December 13 2020 00:00 IST,||How to use camera traps more ethically in wildlife research||Imagine yourself as a wildlife researcher. You set up camera traps in a forest to take pictures of your study animal. But what do you do when the cameras unintentionally capture images of people – local villagers or even suspected poachers? A new paper published by an international team of researchers notes that the privacy of people photographed needs to be respected and lays out seven basic principles, “a blend of ethical and pragmatic good practices,” to be followed. Studies of snow leopards The study team has been conducting camera trap-based studies of snow leopards in several countries such as Mongolia, India, China and the Kyrgyz Republic. “These cameras are like quiet observers. Some of them had recorded people with guns, trespassers, and even a possible hunting party. This created ethical dilemmas, and that is when we started to explore... yes, on one hand, camera traps can be used as an important tool to detect illegal movement. But have we informed the people enough?” asks Koustubh Sharma, from the International Snow Leopard Trust, and lead author of the paper published in Ecological Evidence and Solutions.  He adds that it is important to put out a notice in the surrounding local communities just like how inside an ATM it says: This area is under CCTV Surveillance. “This does two things. One, it warns you that if you do something wrong you’re likely to get caught. The second thing, it also serves as a deterrent because if you know someone’s watching, you are less likely to do something wrong,” says Dr. Sharma. The ethics question He explains that it is not ethically correct to quietly sneak out using these cameras and catch the people by surprise; because ultimately it is the local people who are the partners in the forefront of the battle to conserve the habitats and the wildlife. “Researchers also have public responsibility. It is important we report illegal activity. At the same time, the local communities need to be empowered and well informed of these practices. It is unwise and unethical to use a stealth mode,” says Charu Mishra, Executive Director of the Snow Leopard Trust and co-author. He adds in a release: “Our article, which builds on years of hands-on experience and knowledge of practising field researchers, social scientists, and legal minds, is a step towards an ethical code of conduct for researchers and wildlife managers working with research cameras. What we do for snow leopards and biodiversity matters, but how we do it matters even more.” The team writes that there may be situations when these concepts may need to be modified and adapted. They hope that this set of basic concepts can act as an initial checklist that can be constantly updated to improve the practice of ethical camera trap-based research and also help researchers better navigate the ethical-legal tightrope.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/how-to-use-camera-traps-more-ethically-in-wildlife-research/article33318102.ece
13 December 2020||December 13 2020 00:00 IST,||How epigenetics alters inherited genetics’ message||An exciting paper has appeared in Nature, authored by Lu et al titled “Reprogramming to recover youthful epigenetic information and restore vision,” ( Nature 588, pages 124-129). Lu and co-authors point that a proposed cause of ageing is the accumulation of “epigenetic noise” that disrupts gene expression patterns lending to changes in inherent DNA function. If one can put them back by restoring them using specific genes (gene therapy) sight can be restored. The human (and mammalian) eye is a remarkable organ in the course of evolution which has allowed us to “see” the external world clearly and in colour. Earlier forms, such as microbes and plants, reacted to light in other ways (for absorption and use, such as photosynthesis). The front part of the human eye (cornea, lens and the vitreous humour gel) is transparent, colourless and helps focus the incoming light into the retina, helping us see colour. It is the retina that sends the message to the brain. Its main component, called the retinal ganglion cells (RGC) are the ones that help in this process of sending the message in the form of electrical signals, called neurons or nerve cells. Thus, RGCs are the ones that convert optics into electronics. Cellular regulators The functioning of cells and tissues in our body are controlled by thousands of proteins that regulate various cellular functions. These proteins are in turn encoded by the respective genes which are a part of our genome or the cellular DNA. Any minor or major changes to our inherited DNA (addition or mutation) can result in altered protein production, which in turn leads to defective cellular functions. This forms the basis for many heritable genetic disorders affecting the mankind. Apart from DNA or protein sequence level alterations, there are other biochemical changes that influence and dictate if a gene should be active or inactive in a given cell type. For example, the gene that encodes for the insulin protein is present in exact form, in every cell of the body. However, it is allowed to express only in the insulin secreting beta cells of the pancreas and is kept inactive in the rest of the cells of the body. This phenomenon is tightly regulated by a combination of regulatory proteins that changes the expressivity of the gene. Also, the histone proteins that bind the DNA and help to compactly wrap it inside the chromosomes can undergo chemical modifications such as methylations and acetylations on different lysine amino acids within the protein. These modifications both on the DNA and its associated proteins alter the chromosomal conformations and regulate gene expression. These changes can either unwind the DNA and allow gene expression or can compact the DNA and render the genes in the region inactive or silent. Such biochemical changes that dictate the expressivity of a gene in a particular cell are collectively termed “epigenetics.” Unlike DNA mutations that are permanent, such epigenetic changes are reversible and are mediated by regulatory proteins such as DNA methyl transferases (DNMTs), histone acetyl transferases (HATs), histone deacetylases (HDACs) and so on. These regulatory proteins can add or remove such modifications and can result in turning ON/OFF a specific gene in a tissue or organ specific manner. In the case of pancreatic beta cells, the insulin gene is maintained in an open or active conformation, thus allowing protein expression, while it remains silent in other cells. This normal epigenetic control on our genes can get altered during normal ageing, stress and disease conditions. Tumour suppressors This is well known in many cancers, where certain set of genes called tumour suppressors that regulate cell division get silenced either due to mutations or due to epigenetic alterations and result in uncontrolled proliferation of cells and tumour development. Similarly many messages or youthful genes are also turned off by epigenetic changes during our normal ageing process. RGCs help us the ability to see clearly and in colour. Ageing leads to a slow and progressive decline in this ability of RGCs to maintain and regulate the stability and constancy to function properly. In addition, external factors such as family or hereditary history, diabetes (both type 1 and 2) and others modify this homeostasis by inducing “epigenetic” alterations as explained above. I requested my colleagues at the Institute Indumathi Mariappan (a translational researcher in cell biology) and G. Chandrasekhar (a clinical expert with special interest in glaucoma, as well as analytical thinking) for their reaction. Dr. Mariappan points out that it is risky to consider such an approach in humans with so many unknowns and stochastic effects within each cell, it can lead to totally unpredictable events that cannot be reversed and the DNA changes are permanent. However, she says that such experiments can be tried in mice, rat and zebrafish as animal models, to study glaucoma. Dr. Chandrasekhar says that ultimately the test will be whether other labs can reproduce this reprogramming work in other organs affected by ageing (for example, heart, lungs and kidneys). dbala@lvpei.org||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/how-epigenetics-alters-inherited-genetics-message/article33318104.ece
13 December 2020||December 13 2020 00:00 IST,||A platform developed for diagnosing tuberculosis from urine samples||Diagnosing TB usually involves using a sputum sample or a biopsy in the detection tests. This is not just time-consuming or expensive, there are also cases where getting a sputum sample is not easy or even possible, such as with small children or in the case of extrapulmonary TB. Now, IIT Madras researchers are developing a point-of-care platform for early-stage TB screening and detection using urine samples. The platform is yet to be tested in clinical trials. The research has been published in the journal Biosensors and Bioelectronics.  The glycolipid lipoarabinomannan (LAM), an integral component of the cell wall and cell membrane of Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb), the disease-causing bacterium, has been explored as a biomarker for TB diagnosis. Since it is known that LAM is released into the blood stream during active infection and passed out in urine, it can be viewed as a potential biomarker for even cases other than pulmonary TB. In the test conducted by the group, the sample containing Mtb-LAM is mixed with gold nanoparticles and incubated for five minutes. Then a U-shaped fibre-optic sensor device with an LED and a photodetector attached to its two ends is dipped into the mixture. The results are generated in the next ten minutes, and the amount of Mtb-LAM present in the mixture can be read out. Antibody sandwich To describe the above process in detail, the sample for analysis is mixed with the reagent containing detector antibody (anti-MTB-LAM IgG) conjugated with plasmonic gold nanoparticles. The gold nanoparticle labels capture the analyte (LAM) molecules from the sample solution through the detector antibody. Then the pre-mixed solution is given to the sensor probes immobilized with capture antibody (anti-MTB-LAM IgM). Thus on the sensor surface, a sandwich-like immunocomplex of the three is formed. This comprises capture antibody-analyte-detector antibody with a plasmonic label. “Likewise a large number of immunocomplexes are formed on the sensor surface that are proportional to the LAM concentration… Each of the plasmonic labels absorb light passing through the fibre, leading to a drop in light intensity at the detector. The drop in the light intensity is a measure of LAM concentration,” says Vani Janakiraman, from the Department of Biotechnology, IIT Madras, in an email to The Hindu. Along with V. V. Raghavendra Sai of Department of Applied Mechanics, she has formulated the problem of urinary LAM based diagnosis of TB. The pregnancy test kit, for example, simply works on a naked eye–based detection of coloured nanoparticles. “On the other hand, the colour detection and quantification in this method can be done ten thousand times more efficiently with the help of optical waveguides such as an optical fibre. If the plasmonic labels are on the fibre core surface, much lower concentrations of LAM can be detected,” says Dr. Raghavendra Sai in clarification. In the buffer solution, for every 10 femtogram/millilitre rise in LAM concentration the change in absorbance could be 0.078 absorbance units. Similarly, in synthetic urine, for every 10 femtogram/millilitre rise in concentration, the rise in absorbance would be 0.043 absorbance units. The team is in the process of scaling up the sensor probe fabrication and functionalisation strategies. “We would also like to cut down the volume of the reagent being used, which significantly influences the cost of the test. On the other side, we are also working on developing a point of care device unit for preliminary validation,” he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/a-platform-developed-for-diagnosing-tuberculosis-from-urine-samples/article33318106.ece
13 December 2020||December 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Fingerprint grip||What is the use of fingerprints for our body? Monkeys, apes and we humans have evolved fingerprints or ridges on hands and feet. This region on our hands and feet also has a high density of sweat glands. A new study has now shown that these ridges and the skin moisture due to the sweat glands helps give greater levels of grip when holding on to objects. Fingerprint ridges help increase the friction when you hold smooth surfaces and the sweat is also regulated to maximise friction. The results were published in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences.  Co-author Mike Adams, Professor in Product Engineering and Manufacturing, at the University of Birmingham commented: "Understanding the influence of finger pad friction will help us to develop more realistic tactile sensors -- for example, applications in robotics and prosthetics and haptic feedback systems for touch screens and virtual reality environments." Using hi-tech laser-based imaging technology, the scientists found that the moisture on the finger is regulated by a combination of sweat pore blocking and accelerated evaporation of excessive moisture from external wetting. These two functions together maintain the optimum amount of moisture in the fingerprint ridges. "This dual-mechanism for managing moisture has provided primates with an evolutionary advantage in dry and wet conditions -- giving them manipulative and locomotor abilities not available to other animals, such as bears and big cats," added Professor Adams.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/fingerprint-grip/article33318105.ece
13 December 2020||December 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Emergency use of COVID-19 vaccines||The story so far: The Pune-based Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech of Hyderabad, frontrunners among Indian vaccine makers, have been advised by India’s drugs regulator — the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) —to furnish more evidence that their vaccine candidates were safe and capable of preventing COVID-19. Neither company has finished testing its vaccines, but they chose to approach the drug regulator seeking ‘emergency use’ provisions. What is emergency use authorisation (EUA) for drugs and vaccines? The conventional process to approve new drugs or vaccines is to subject them to a clinical trial process. This means that after a prospective drug has been determined safe in animals, it is progressively tested in larger groups of people — healthy ones, if it is a vaccine — or patients, in case of a new drug. The trials in phase 1, 2 and 3 are designed to establish the drug’s safety and efficacy, and promoters of the new drug or vaccine must furnish data from each phase to a country’s drugs regulators to satisfy them that the results are promising enough to move to the next stage. This process and the logistics of execution and evaluation are long, and it often takes years for a new entity to be commercially approved. However, there may be several situations when the approval process must be hastened — for instance, a potential drug may be available to treat an extremely debilitating and rare disease, but there are too few potential patients to devise appropriate clinical trials; or there is an outbreak that is putting several lives at risk and no proven drugs or vaccines are at hand; or a drug or vaccine has been properly tested in one country and known to save lives and will evidently be useful in another country which has neither the resources nor expertise to subject it to a similar evaluation. It is under such circumstances that health regulators allow accelerated approvals under EUA. The latter is terminology specific to the United States Food and Drug Administration — it has just given emergency approval to a vaccine developed by Pfizer and BioNTech, the first vaccine to prevent COVID-19 approved in the U.S. — but several countries have similar provisions under similarnames. What is the process in India? India does not have an explicit EUA provision. However, a section in the rules governing the use and regulation of drugs that came into effect in 2019 — called the New Drugs and Clinical Trials Rules, 2019 — mentions an ‘accelerated approval process’. Depending on the severity of the disease, urgency, rarity or the lack of alternative treatments, the regulator has the right to waive local clinical trials if a drug has been approved elsewhere. Also, in the case of a new drug, the medical benefits of the drug are evaluated based on the first two phases of the testing and the larger — usually more time-consuming and expensive —phase 3 trial can be deferred. It is under such provisions that first pharmaceutical companies, and then vaccine firms, were able to offer drugs such as hydroxychloroquine, Remdesivir and Favipiravir to COVID-19 patients, even though there was little evidence to show that they worked. Vaccine makers such as Serum Institute of India (SII), Bharat Biotech (BB), and Zydus Cadila, too, have been allowed to rely on the efficacy of data from other countries, or limited human trials to accelerate their testing process. Why did India’s drugs regulator seek more data? The DCGI has a Subject Expert Committee (SEC) which evaluates technical data from trials. At its meeting on Wednesday, the committee said that in the case of SII, it would need “updated” safety data from the company’s ongoing combined phase-2/3 trial on 1,600 volunteers in India. Because the SII’s vaccine, ‘Covishield’, is a version of the Oxford-AstraZeneca ChAdOx1 vaccine candidate, whose early results from its phase 3 trials are being scrutinised by the United Kingdom’s drugs regulators, the Indian committee also wanted to evaluate this data as well as wait for that country’s decision on the vaccine. In the case of Bharat Biotech, the regulator wanted to see data from the company’s ongoing trial on 28,500 volunteers across India. The committee has not laid bare its reasoning, but the rules say it is free to ask for any data it terms necessary to evaluate the risk-benefit ratio of approving an untested vaccine candidate.  What lies ahead? Drugs regulators are not enjoined to approve a drug just because there is a pandemic. However, this is a rare historic moment when drugs and vaccines anywhere, even with the slightest promise, are being given unprecedented leeway and are nudged by the government to rapidly bring an effective vaccine to market. Companies are allowed to furnish ‘interim’ data — they do not have to wait for trials to end before approaching the regulator. In the case of SII, the approval of the ChAdOx1 vaccine in the United Kingdom could potentially mean almost immediate approval in India. Another factor would be the frequency of adverse events and reactions. While there have been reports of volunteers in global trials — and in India too — experiencing severe reactions, none has been definitely linked to the administration of the vaccine. Being convinced that Indians, if not significantly benefit, would not come to harm at least, will be a key factor influencing the committee’s decision.  Depending on the severity of the disease, urgency, rarity or the lack of alternative treatments, the regulator has the right to waive local clinical trials if a drug has been approved elsewhere||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/emergency-use-of-covid-19-vaccines/article33318032.ece
13 December 2020||New Delhi,||City hospital readies to store COVID-19 vaccines||Friday was a busy day at the utility block of the Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital. Sound of hammer hitting the chisel, breaking parts of the walls echoed in the building. In some areas, the floor was being redone, doors were being made bigger, and workers constantly moved in and out of the building. Two floors of the building are being converted into a storage facility for any COVID-19 vaccine, which is expected to be approved the government. With the possibility of a vaccine brighter than ever, the Delhi government has started its preparation to vaccinate the residents. Apart from the storage facility, the government has collected a list of more than 1.5 lakh healthcare workers to be inoculated and is also looking at data of people above 50 years of age and with co-morbidities to be inoculated next.  Different temperatures     “Right now, civil and electrical works are happening at the utility block. Some doors are being made bigger to accommodate large equipment for refrigeration. We will prepare for different temperatures as a vaccine is not yet decided,” said Chhavi Gupta, spokesperson of Rajiv Gandhi Hospital. Earlier this month, Health Minister Satyendar Jain had said that Delhi can vaccinate the whole population in three to four weeks once the vaccine is available. “The priority is healthcare and frontline workers. After which the focus will be on senior citizens, and subsequently moving to the entire population of Delhi. The Delhi government is fully capable of rolling out the vaccine to the entire population of the city. We are prepared with the storage facilities too. We are just waiting for it to be made available to us,” the Minister had said.  Training doctors     The government has also asked 47 hospitals to provide two doctors each to be trained for the vaccination process. These doctors will then conduct training programmes for others and help to make the whole training process faster. The actual vaccinators will be ANMs and nurses, and training will also be imparted to ASHA workers and anganwadi workers to spread the message about the vaccine in the community, according to officials. There will be more clarity once the Central government approves a vaccine, officials said.  A few are wary   But even as the government is moving ahead, many healthcare workers are wary about the vaccine. “We did not get enough time to check if there are any long-term side effects to this vaccine. Many nurses are apprehensive about the vaccine, but this has not turned into a strong discussion as the government is yet to approve a vaccine,” said Fameer C.K., general secretary of AIIMS Nurses’ Union. He said that ideally the vaccine should not be given to healthcare workers first as if there are any problems with the vaccine, then all the frontline warriors will be down and the healthcare system will be crippled. Shoukat Ali, vice-president of Nurses’ Union of LokNayak Hospital, the largest Delhi government hospital for COVID-19, also had a similar opinion. “Many healthcare workers are concerned about the vaccine. There has been multiple controversial news about the vaccine. For instance, I saw a news today about a person developing antibodies against HIV after taking the vaccine for COVID-19. There has been news also about people being paralysed. In a way the vaccine is a trial attempt,” Mr. Ali said. He said that they have raised the issue with doctors. Suresh Kumar, medical director of Lok Nayak Hospital said that a few doctors have spoken to him about the safety of the vaccine, but there no “major concerns”. “Most of the healthcare workers are happy that there will soon be a vaccine. We have sent a list of 3,900 healthcare workers from our hospital to the Delhi government for vaccination,” Dr. Kumar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/city-hospital-readies-to-store-covid-19-vaccines/article33318320.ece
13 December 2020||December 13 2020 00:00 IST,||Shifting the Rohingya to Bhashan Char||The story so far: On Thursday, agencies reported that a United Nations (UN) human rights investigator had requested Bangladesh to allow a safety assessment of the remote islet of Bhashan Char, where the government had shipped 1,600-odd Rohingya refugees. Reuters reported that the UN said it was not involved in the transfer of the refugees there. Thomas Andrews, the UN human rights investigator for Myanmar, told the news agency that the assessment and verification process to ensure that the refugees were not forced to go were in the “best interest of all”. Other human rights agencies have also criticised the move. Is the islet safe? Bhashan Char is a char-land of around 13,000 acres, formed by the accumulation of silt where the river Meghna meets the Bay of Bengal carrying rich alluvial deposits. Char-lands are a common feature in Meghna and Padma rivers and literally mean “shifting landmass”. As the name reveals, the char was not part of the permanent land feature of Bangladesh, but appeared recently. Bhashan Char is surrounded by a mangrove forest that has given it geographical stability. Sensing a tourism opportunity, the Bangladesh government had declared Bhashan Char as a protected forest land in 2013. It is a two-and-a-half-hours boat ride away from Cox’s Bazar in Chittagong. The main argument for the char-land being unsafe is that these lands are known to be unstable and flood-prone. The other fear factor includes the tropical cyclones that visit the area every year. What is the arrangement for the Rohingya? Over the past few years, Bangladesh has constructed roads and brought modern telecommunication networks to Bhashan Char. The Bangladesh government has earmarked around 1,350 acres for the Rohingya refugees, of which 432 acres is dedicated to their rehabilitation and the rest remains for future projects. The government has constructed a large number of housing units in the section designated for the Rohingya. The country sent 1,642 Rohingya refugees to the islet from their temporary camps in Kutupalong, near Cox’s Bazar, on December 4. They are being housed in red-roofed residential units and most houses are built four feet above the ground to help them withstand unexpected high tidal waves. Why is Bangladesh moving the refugees? Rohingya refugees of Kutupalong have been living in a large refugee camp near the forested borders with Myanmar since 2017, when they were forced to traverse the forest and the rivers that constitute the border between Bangladesh and Myanmar’s Rakhine province. Ever since their arrival, the refugees, numbering 1.1 million, have been living in Kutupalong under bamboo and tarpaulin structures. The camp is located on a hillock, which was a sanctuary for elephants and other wild animals. Kutupalong has also been in the news for its rising crime rate. Bangladesh argues that the islet will provide a safer place. Why are human rights agencies upset? Amnesty International said Bangladesh must “drop” its plans to shift Rohingya refugees to Bhashan Char as the char-land had not yet been declared safe for habitation by the United Nations. Omar Waraich of Amnesty International claimed that many Rohingya who were asked to relocate said they were coerced. “Any decisions relating to the relocation of refugees must be transparent and involve the full participation of the Rohingya people. In the meantime, plans for any further relocation must be abandoned,” Mr. Waraich said. What happens next? Diplomatic sources have confirmed that Dhaka does not plan to relocate the entire refugee settlement and only aims at reducing the congestion in Kutupalong. The country’s long-term plan for Rohingya refugees is to seek their repatriation to the Rakhine province of Myanmar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/shifting-the-rohingya-to-bhashan-char/article33318030.ece
13 December 2020||December 13 2020 00:00 IST,||A turnaround in J&K on Roshni Act||The story so far: On December 4, the Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) government filed a petition in the High Court, asking it to reconsider its October ruling on the Roshni Act. The court had declared it “unconstitutional” and the State government deemed all actions taken under the Act, originally called the J&K State Land (Vesting of Ownership Rights to the Occupants) Act, 2001, “null and void”. Under the Act, all occupants of State land — lease, farm or non-lease land — could apply for regularisation if it was with the occupant up to 1990. After the HC order, the government said it would retrieve land from occupants within six months. Why is a two decades-old law under the scanner? Enacted in 2001 during Farooq Abdullah’s regime, the Roshni Act was an ambitious project to meet J&K’s — then a State — chronic power crisis and raise funds to set up hydroelectricity projects to generate extra power. There was a notional calculation on the part of the government that regularising 20 lakh kanals (equivalent of 2.5 lakh acres) of State land under occupation of locals would help it raise Rs. 25,000 crore, to provide a stimulus to the ailing and debt-ridden power sector. The condition for regularisation made by the government was that the property owner had to pay according to market prices. What were the subsequent amendments made to the Roshni Act? Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad, who was Chief Minister of J&K in 2005, effected a number of amendments to the Act. It extended the cut-off date from 1990 to 2004, which was later extended till 2007. According to the fresh amendments, further relaxation was granted to occupants on the market prices fixed earlier in 2001. Why was the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) unhappy with the Act? The CAG tabled a report before the J&K assembly in 2014 and pointed out irregularities. It said that land transfers under the Act between 2007 and 2013 were able to raise only Rs. 76 crore against the value of the land pegged at Rs. 317 crore. The period saw ownership rights granted for 33,000 kanals in the Kashmir valley and 3,14,000 kanals in Jammu. The CAG reported that the beneficiaries in Kashmir paid Rs. 54 crore against the targeted Rs. 123 crore, and in Jammu, they paid Rs. 22 crore against the targeted Rs. 194 crore. The CAG described the Act as a “Rs. 25,000 crore fraud”. Who approached the court against the Act and what did it observe? A public interest litigation (PIL) was filed by a Jammu-based activist S.K. Bhalla in 2011, alleging that politicians, bureaucrats and revenue officers were hand in glove in committing fraud under the Act. In 2014, after the CAG report, Jammu-based advocate Ankur Sharma filed another petition and demanded that the Act be declared “unconstitutional”. In 2018, then governor Satya Pal Malik, as head of the State Administrative Council without any legislature, repealed the Act, saying it failed to meet its objectives. A Division Bench of J&K High Court, comprising Chief Justice Gita Mittal and Justice Rajesh Bindal, declared the Act “unconstitutional” in October 2020. Acting on the HC observations, the J&K government on October 31 declared all the actions taken under the Act “null and void”. Why has the J&K government filed a review petition? The J&K government, which had initially decided against filing any review in the case before the court, finally filed a review petition on December 4, saying “a large number of common people would suffer”. Landless cultivators and individuals have been clubbed along with rich and wealthy land grabbers, who have obtained a title over State land through the provisions of the Act, it said. Many politicians, bureaucrats and businessmen were named prior to the District Development Council polls in the Union Territory. However, it turned out that most of the beneficiaries were farmers and small landholders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/a-turnaround-in-jk-on-roshni-act/article33318036.ece
13 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Open book exam for UG, PG students at DU begins||Open book examinations for second and third-year undergraduate students and final-year postgraduate students of Delhi University (DU) began on Saturday. This is the second time that DU is undertaking the OBE due to the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic. Approximately 1.3 lakh students are expected to appear for the exams this time with around 5,700 opting for physical examinations, to be conducted in respective colleges. Earlier, university officials had said that students will only be able to upload their answer scripts on the OBE portal and unlike last time, options of emailing would not be available. However, as an “emergent measure”, the university has given students the option of emailing their answer scripts to the nodal officers. D.S. Rawat, Dean of Examinations, said, “We have given students an alternative of emailing their answer scripts to respective nodal officers. However, it has been specified that this mode can be used only in cases of emergency. They have to provide documentary evidence, including snapshots, to prove that they had tried to upload the scripts on the portal, but were unable to. Without evidence their requests will not be accepted.” On the first day of OBE, examination of around 190 papers were conducted in the morning and around 180 in the evening session, officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/open-book-exam-for-ug-pg-students-at-du-begins/article33318304.ece
13 December 2020||New Delhi,||1,935 new virus cases take Delhi’s tally to 6,05,470||The Capital witnessed 1,935 new COVID-19 cases in the last 24 hours, taking the total number of cases to 6,05,470, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Saturday. Also, 47 more deaths have been reported in the past 24 hours, taking the total number of deaths to 9,981. Of the total cases, 5,78,116 people have recovered and there are 17,373 active cases in the city at present. The positivity of COVID-19 cases was 2.64% on Saturday, lesser than the average daily positivity in November, which was 11.65%. The overall positivity till now was 8.47%, as per the bulletin. Out of the total 18,814 beds available for COVID-19 treatment in the city, 14,183 were vacant, as per the bulletin. There were 6,451 containment zones in the city as on Saturday. Health Minister Satyendar Jain said that positivity was less than 5% for the past 11 days. “Today overall positivity is 2.46% this is less than 5% for last 11 days. Today RTPCR positivity is 5.14%, RTPCR positivity was 30 % on 7 Nov. Today 1935 positive cases, less than 3500 cases for last 8 days. Please continue to observe all precautions [sic.],” Mr. Jain said in a tweet. He also said that the number of deaths in Delhi are on a decline and lowest since November 2. In another tweet, he said, “7 days average per day cases now are 2275 one month ago this was 7196. Cases are continually on a decline for a month in Delhi. Wear mask and beat the virus [sic].”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/1935-new-virus-cases-take-delhis-tally-to-605470/article33318312.ece
13 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Odd semester exams have been put on hold, announces Jamia||The Jamia Millia Islamia (JMI) on Saturday announced that the odd semester examinations have been put on hold in view of students raising concerns over the “online proctored examination” as announced by the varsity earlier. In a notice, the JMI administration said, “The university has received several representations from the students regarding their problems or issues with online proctored examination. The university has apprised the University Grants Commission [UGC] of the concerns of the students and the decision of the university regarding the mode of conduct of examinations. The directions or guidelines from the UGC on the matter are sought and awaited.” The administration said that the university will take a decision regarding the mode of conduct of the examination based on the directives issued by the UGC. Earlier, the varsity had announced that the odd semester examination would commence from December 21. The university had said that only desktops and laptops would be permitted to be used during the examination, along with a functioning webcam. The directive had led to several students raising concerns over the lack of access to devices and internet facilities. The notice issued on Saturday added, “Meanwhile, students are advised to relax and continue with their ongoing online classes and their preparation for examination.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/odd-semester-exams-have-been-put-on-hold-announces-jamia/article33318306.ece
13 December 2020||New Delhi,||AAP to hold protest outside Amit Shah’s residence today||The Aam Aadmi Party on Saturday demanded a CBI inquiry into “loss of Rs. 2,500 crore” by the BJP-ruled North Delhi Municipal Corporation and said that they will protest outside the residence of Union Home Minister Amit Shah at 11 a.m. on Sunday. On Friday, Urban Development Minister Satyendar Jain had said that he has ordered an inquiry into “misappropriation” of more than Rs. 2,400 crore by the North Corporation. Earlier this week, AAP alleged that the civic body had waived Rs. 2,457 crore owed by the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC). Meanwhile, Mayors and senior leaders of the three BJP-led municipal corporations of Delhi beat “thaali” outside Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal’s residence on Saturday to demand release of funds “due to the civic bodies”. The dharna by the municipal leaders seeking release of funds entered its sixth day as they refused to budge.   “Baseless protest’ “The sit-in protest by the BJP Mayor and its councillors for the last few days, demanding an outstanding amount of Rs. 13,000 crore, everyone knows, is baseless. The Delhi government does not owe anything to the civic body,” AAP leader Atishi said while addressing a press conference. Our demand of the CBI inquiry into the matter of loss of Rs. 2,500 crore, due to which we are going to the Home Minister’s and L-G’s residences tomorrow, is correct, factual, and has a basis. We hope that the L-G and Home Minister Amit Shah will allow a CBI inquiry into the scam at the earliest and, at the same time, we sincerely expect the Delhi Police to allow us to sit outside the L-G’s and Home Minister’s residences, just like they allowed BJP Mayors and Councillors to sit outside Delhi CM’s residence,” she said. The AAP leader said that there must be stringent action against culprits because with the said fund of Rs. 2,500 crore, doctors, staff, nurses, and teachers, could have been paid salaries, which are pending. Ms. Atishi, AAP MLA and national spokesperson Raghav Chadha and other MLAs will be part of the protest and the party has written to the Delhi Police for permission for the protest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/aap-to-hold-protest-outside-amit-shahs-residence-today/article33318309.ece
13 December 2020||December 13 2020 00:00 IST,||The Facebook feud||The story so far: On Wednesday, social networking giant Facebook was sued by the Federal Trade Commission (FTC), the U.S. agency which seeks to protect consumers and promote competition, as well as by the attorneys general of 46 States, the territory of Guam and the district of Columbia. Their complaint against the Mark Zuckerberg-run company is that over the years, it has unlawfully maintained its monopoly in the social networking space. Among other things, they have called for a break-up of Facebook. This comes in the wake of several recent moves across the world targeting what’s called the ‘Big Tech’ on anti-trust charges. In October, for instance, the U.S. Justice Department sued Google for alleged abuse of its dominance in the search services market. What are the core arguments made against Facebook in the lawsuits? The plaintiffs — the FTC and attorneys general of all U.S. States except Alabama, Georgia, South Carolina and South Dakota — essentially say that Facebook has engaged in anti-competitive conduct over the years in order to maintain its monopoly in the market for social networking services, and that this has been driven by a fear of falling behind emerging competitors. The lawsuits highlight two broad areas where such conduct has been evident. Facebook’s acquisition strategy is one of the areas. The FTC lawsuit says the acquisition of photo-sharing network Instagram and messaging platform WhatsApp reflects Mr. Zuckerberg’s view that “it is better to buy than compete”. The plaintiffs reckon that the only reason why Facebook paid a whopping $19 billion to buy WhatsApp, which in six years it has not monetised, was that by doing so, it was eliminating a serious challenger to its top position in the social networking space. The second area relates to “anti-competitive platform conduct”. The lawsuit by the States says, “When Facebook opted not to purchase a firm presenting a competitive threat, or was rebuffed, Facebook cut off access to key components of its immensely valuable network.” This is what happened to Twitter’s Vine, Path, Circle, and other apps, according to the lawsuit. The complaint is that Facebook closed access to its platform by potential competitors after having opened it up to enlarge its base and increase engagement with users. Take the example of Vine, which allows users to create and share short videos that go in a loop. Its users could find friends via Facebook. But on the day of Vine’s launch, Facebook made sure this feature was no longer available. By cutting off Vine, says the FTC lawsuit, Facebook prevented it from accessing APIs (application programming interfaces) that could have helped it grow.   In essence, the complaint is that Facebook either gobbled up potential competition or used its platform’s power to prevent them from scaling up. What remedies do the lawsuits seek? The lawsuits invoke the Sherman Act, 1890, and the Clayton Act, 1914. Section 2 of the Sherman Act makes it unlawful for a company to achieve monopoly power or keep such power via means that are anti-competition. Section 7 of the Clayton Act seeks to prevent mergers of companies that will lessen competition or lead to a monopoly. In effect, the lawsuits seek a court order that would force Facebook to sell off Instagram and WhatsApp and prevent it from imposing anti-competitive platform conditions. There is also a reference to the Hart-Scott-Rodino Act, which “requires companies to file pre-merger notifications with the Federal Trade Commission and the Antitrust Division of the Justice Department for certain acquisitions”. The lawsuit invokes this to ask for an order to make Facebook seek prior approval for its acquisitions in future. How has Facebook reacted to this? In its blog, Facebook has said that the acquisitions of Instagram and WhatsApp “were intended to provide better products for the people who use them, and they unquestionably did”. Also, it has said that these acquisitions were reviewed, and “correctly allowed”, by the relevant anti-trust regulators then. It also points to one of the big remedies sought — the break-up of Facebook — to say that “this lawsuit risks sowing doubt and uncertainty about the U.S. government’s own merger review process and whether acquiring businesses can actually rely on the outcomes of the legal process”. Responding to the other big complaint that it unfairly shut off promising services from accessing its platform, it has said, “Facebook told these apps that they could not use Facebook’s platform to essentially replicate Facebook.” According to it, “This restriction is standard in the industry. Where platforms give access to other developers — and many do not provide access at all — they usually prohibit duplication of core functions.” It further said that LinkedIn, The New York Times, Pinterest, and Uber, among others, have similar policies.  In essence, the complaint is that Facebook either gobbled up potential competition or used its platform’s power to prevent them from scaling up||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/the-facebook-feud/article33318034.ece
13 December 2020||New Delhi,||‘Be less rigid towards Mayors’||Leader of Opposition in the Delhi Legislative Assembly, Ramvir Singh Bidhuri, on Saturday appealed to Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal to be less rigid towards the Mayors of the three municipal corporations sitting outside his residence on a dharna for the last six days. ‘Clear dues’ Mr. Kejriwal, he also said, should also ensure the payment of dues amounting to Rs. 13,000 crore to the municipal corporations so that payment of the salaries of Corona warriors, such as health workers, teachers, sanitation workers and other employees of the civic bodies can be done. “The three Mayors and senior Councillors of the municipal corporations have been sitting outside the residence of the Chief Minister in this winter season for the last six days, but he did not consider it necessary to meet these leaders,” he said. “On the contrary, AAP party leader Durgesh Pathak is threatening to kill the Mayors in the presence of Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia...it is condemnable,” he also alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/be-less-rigid-towards-mayors/article33318310.ece
13 December 2020||Noida,||Gautam Buddh Nagar’s COVID-19 tally passes 24,000-mark, active cases 893||U.P.’s Gautam Buddha Nagar recorded 96 new COVID-19 cases on Saturday that pushed the district’s infection tally to 24,038, official data stated. Active cases in the district came down to 893 from 899.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/gautam-buddh-nagars-covid-19-tally-passes-24000-mark-active-cases-893/article33318307.ece
