30 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||6 U.K. returnees test positive for new coronavirus variant||Samples of six persons returning from the U.K. have been found to contain the new variant of the SARS-CoV-2 virus, the Health Ministry said on Tuesday. The Ministry said, of the samples, “3 [were tested] in NIMHANS, Bengaluru, 2 in CCMB, Hyderabad, and 1 in NIV, Pune”. These persons have been kept in single-room isolation in designated health care facilities by the respective State governments. “Their close contacts too have been put under quarantine. Comprehensive contact tracing has been initiated for co-travellers, family contacts and others. Genome sequencing on other specimens is going on,” said the Ministry. From November 25 to December 23 midnight, about 33,000 passengers disembarked at various Indian airports from the U.K. All these passengers are being tracked and subjected by the States/Union Territories to RT-PCR tests. So far, only 114 have been found positive. These positive samples have been sent to 10 INSACOG labs for genome sequencing. A U.K. returnee to Tamil Nadu, who tested positive for COVID-19 and was already in hospital isolation, tested positive for the new U.K. strain, State Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan said on Tuesday. His sample was tested at NIV, Pune. The three persons with the new variant in Bangalore include a mother and her six-year-old daughter, who have been admitted in Trauma and Emergency Care Centre (TECC) on Victoria Hospital campus, and are asymptomatic.The third person, a 33-year-old male, is moderately symptomatic and is being monitored at a private hospital on Bannerghatta Road in the city.  D||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/6-uk-returnees-test-positive-for-new-coronavirus-variant/article33449348.ece
30 December 2020||MANGALURU,||Shiradi Ghat tunnelling, highway projects will help boost growth of port: Ramana||The recently announced Rs. 11,000-crore road projects, including the tunnelling work between Heggadde and Addahole in the Shiradi Ghat, will help improve road connectivity to New Mangalore Port with other parts of the State and further boost the operations at the port, said Chairman of New Mangalore Port Trust A.V. Ramana here on Tuesday. Addressing presspersons, Mr. Ramana said that the absence of better connectivity with other parts of the State has hampered the growth of the port. Though the port has set a target of handling 68 million tonnes of cargo per annum, it has been handling just above 20 million tonnes of cargo. The trust has been raising the issue of improving road connectivity in its meetings with the Union and State governments. Mr. Ramana thanked the Union government and Dakshina Kannada Member of Parliament Nalin Kumar Kateel for taking up a host of road works in the region. Apart from tunnelling work proposed at a cost of Rs. 10,000 crore, the government has proposed to strengthen the Sampaje Ghat at an estimated cost of Rs. 58.8 crore, the Shiradi Ghat at a cost of Rs. 26.5 core and Charmadi Ghat at an estimated cost of Rs. 19.5 crore. The new bridge to be built at Kulur across the Phalguni at a cost of Rs. 69 crore will bring respite to public and industries in the city, he said. With the completion of the proposed road works, Mr. Ramana said, NMPT could handle 45 million tonnes traffic by 2025 and 77 million tonnes by 2033. The port handled 25.53 million tonnes of cargo in this financial year till Tuesday, which was less when compared to the 27.23 million tonnes of cargo handled in the last financial year. The drop in the quantity of cargo was because of drop in crude and petrol, oil and lubricants products. With the closure of thermal power stations in Ballari, there was a drop in coal cargo too, he said. NMPT was ranked fourth in terms of cargo handled among the major ports so far in the current financial year. Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) Mangaluru unit president Rajendra Kalabhavi also spoke.  Though the port has set a target of handling 68 million tonnes of cargo per annum, it has been handling just above 20 million tonnes The trust has been raising the issue of improving road connectivity in its meetings with the Union and State governments||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/shiradi-ghat-tunnelling-highway-projects-will-help-boost-growth-of-port-ramana/article33449971.ece
30 December 2020||MADURAI,||New Pamban rail bridge work progressing at a slow pace||Construction of new Pamban rail bridge has been progressing at a slower pace than its schedule. Only 18% of the sea bridge work has been completed even as more than 65% of the planned time has elapsed. Out of the 333 pile foundations that need to be erected for the 2,078-metre-long bridge, Rail Vikas Nigam Limited has completed only 57 pile foundations till the fourth week of December as per the reply given by the executing agency to a query under the Right to Information Act. “The work is going on at a very slow pace. While the project has been planned to be completed by August 2021 (24 months), till now not even one-fifth of the work has got over,” said Pandiaraja, an activist.  ‘Movement suspended’ Stating that the existing Pamban bridge, which is more than 100 years old, has shown semblance of wear and tear, he said already train movement had to be suspended twice for few days in the last few years. “Even recently, train services had to be short-terminated at Mandapam railway station after the sensors installed (by IIT-Madras to continuously monitor the stability of the bridge) raised an alarm,” he said. Under this situation, early commissioning of new bridge assumed significance for uninterrupted rail movement between the mainland and Rameswaram island. The new bridge, to be constructed at a cost of Rs. 270.90 crore, will have substructure for double track on the sea bridge though the superstructure will be laid with only one track now. According to the RVNL, it will make use of 20,000 cubic metres of concrete, 2,250 tonnes of reinforcement steel and 4,060 tonnes of structural steel. The new bridge will have a lifespan of 100 years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/new-pamban-rail-bridge-work-progressing-at-a-slow-pace/article33449378.ece
30 December 2020||MYSURU,||Recharge pits blamed for landslips||Experts from the Geological Survey of India (GSI) have blamed recharge pits for the landslips in Brahmagiri Hill range in Kodagu in August this year. A three-member team of GSI experts, which inspected the site of a major landslip at Gajagiri Hills in Talacauvery on Monday, advised against sinking more recharge pits and suggested closing all recharge pits meant for groundwater conservation at Brahmagiri Hills. More tree planting should take place at the hills as a measure to prevent landslips, the team said. After inspecting the landslip site, the GSI experts and the district authorities held a meeting at Aranya Bhavan in Talacauvery on the measures to be taken for preventing such disasters in the years ahead. Deputy Commissioner Annies Kanmani Joy, who was present, said preventive measures against landslips had become necessary since calamities had been reported in Kodagu in 2007, 2018, 2019, and 2020. The meeting discussed the priority for shifting people living in areas vulnerable to landslips during monsoon besides initiating measures for providing permanent housing to the relocated families. Natural disaster management committees had been set up in each gram panchayat limits in Kodagu and the committee should be informed before carrying out any works in the vulnerable areas in the respective GP limits, the meeting was informed. The committee has members from the departments of Rural Development and Panchayat Raj (RDPR), Revenue, Forests, Public Works, Mines and Geology, and Land Records. Any decision on the works can be taken after bringing it to the knowledge of the committee, the meeting resolved. Responding to the decisions taken at the meeting, Ms. Joy said the members who were going to be elected to the GPs should be told about the reasons for landslips and preventive steps to be taken. Assistant Conservator of Forest Nilesh Shinde gave an overview of the works taken up by the Forest Department at Brahmagiri Hills. The recharge pits are among the works carried out by the department. The Deputy Commissioner told the authorities to take steps for closing all recharge pits by next monsoon.  Aijaz from Jammu and Kashmir, Kamal Kumar from Uttar Pradesh, and Senthil Kumar from Tamil Nadu were in the GSI team.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/recharge-pits-blamed-for-landslips/article33449624.ece
30 December 2020||MYSURU,||Restrictions on New Year celebrations in Mysuru||The Mysuru city police have directed hotels, malls, restaurants, clubs, and pubs to close by 11.30 p.m. on Thursday, as part of the curbs imposed on New Year celebrations. In an effort to prevent a spread of COVID-19, the city police have imposed restrictions that will remain in force from 6 p.m. on Thursday to 6 a.m. on Friday. The order, issued by City Police Commissioner Chandragupta on Tuesday, bans gatherings of more than five persons on public roads, besides the congregation of people in open spaces, parks, and grounds for celebrating the New Year. Gatherings have also been banned near the Mysuru palace and surrounding areas, on D. Devaraj Urs Road, St. Philomena’s Church, Big Clock Tower circle, Kalidasa Road, Dufferin Clock Tower circle, Outer Ring Road, and at roadside dhabas and resorts. No special programmes The police have also banned special programmes featuring music, bands, and dance events at hotels, malls, restaurants, clubs, pubs, and other recreational centres. The number of patrons on the premises should be restricted to 50% of the capacity, as per the COVID-19 guidelines. Hotels, bars and restaurants, malls, clubs and others should allow entry only to patrons who reserve seats in advance. The bursting of crackers by groups is also banned.  Curbs to be in force from 6 p.m. on Thursday to 6 a.m. on Friday Congregation of people in open spaces, parks, and grounds banned Gatherings have also been banned near the Mysuru palace, surrounding areas||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/restrictions-on-new-year-celebrations-in-mysuru/article33449625.ece
30 December 2020||CHENNAI,||Rajini opts out of politics, cites health concerns||Superstar Rajinikanth on Tuesday announced that he would not be launching a political party as his health did not permit him to engage in full-scale political activity in the midst of the COVID-19 pandemic, bringing down the curtains on years of speculation and anticipation about his political foray. “I apologise to everyone who expected me to enter politics — my fans and RMM [Rajini Makkal Mandram] members. Only I know the amount of pain I am undergoing for taking this decision,” the 70-year-old actor said in statement. The announcement, two days before he was to announce a date for the launch of his party on December 31, came as an anti-climax for his fans and political strategists, who were banking on him to end the five-decade sway of Dravidian parties over politics in Tamil Nadu. The actor was admitted to Apollo Hospitals in Hyderabad last week with severe fluctuation in blood pressure. While being discharged, in view of his post-transplant status [he had undergone renal transplant in 2016], he was counselled to avoid any activity that increases the risk of contracting COVID-19. Though Mr. Rajinikanth’s political entry has been the subject of intense speculation for nearly three decades, he confirmed his intention of taking the plunge on December 31, 2017, in time for the Assembly election scheduled for 2021. He had then likened the election to fighting a battle. Job losses In a three-page statement on Twitter, the actor said the stoppage of the shooting of his film Annaththe earlier this month due to COVID-19 had led to a loss of several crores for the producer Sun Pictures and job losses for several others. “The reason for all this is my health condition. If I enter politics, I will have to meet thousands, even lakhs of people while campaigning. Even within a controlled environment, where only 120 people were at the shooting spot, people were affected by COVID-19 and I had to spend three days in the hospital. Even if a vaccine arrives, I am on immunosuppressant medicines and if some health complications arise while campaigning, it would put those with me on this political journey in emotional and financial turmoil and lead to untold misery for them,” he said. The actor said he was not willing to make scapegoats of people, who were willing to be a part of his political journey, just because he might be subject to criticism that he had made a promise of entering politics and had now backed out. Mr. Rajinikanth praised members of his Rajini Rasikar Mandram (RMM) for undertaking public service in the past three years with diligence and honesty. He said the RMM will continue to function as usual. He also thanked politician Tamilaruvi Manian, who rallied with him, for being a part of his journey till date and Ra. Arjunamoorthy, the RMM coordinator, who joined him from the BJP. He said he will do whatever public service he could without entering politics. “I have never shied away from speaking the truth,” he added.  I apologise to everyone who expected me to enter politics... Only I know the amount of pain I am undergoing for taking this decision. Rajinikanth, Actor||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rajini-opts-out-of-politics-cites-health-concerns/article33449334.ece
30 December 2020||Chikkamagaluru,||JD(S) leader found dead on rail tracks||Senior Janata Dal (Secular) leader and Deputy Chairman of the Karnataka Legislative Council, S.L. Dharme Gowda, 65, was found dead on a railway track at Gunasagar in Chikkamagaluru district late on Monday. The police recovered a note from his person, and it apparently indicates that he ended his life. Mr. Gowda, a low-profile politician with over three decades in public life, recently hit the headlines when he was heckled by some members of the Legislative Council on December 15 as he tried to conduct the House without authorisation from Council Chairman K. Pratapchandra Shetty, purportedly to take up a no-confidence motion against the Chairman moved by the BJP. The Council Chairman is learnt to have directed the formation of a Special Legislative Committee to probe the pandemonium on Monday, following a report by council secretary K.R. Mahalakshmi that reportedly said Mr. Gowda occupied the Chair “spontaneously” and tried to conduct the House despite being reminded of the Rules of the House. Mr. Gowda, who participated in a slew of public events in Chikkamagaluru on Monday, left his farmhouse near Sakharayapatna in the evening in his private car with driver Dharmaraj. He enquired with one of his associates about train timings and around 6.15 p.m. he got off at Gunasagar, near a railway track, asking the driver to wait as he had some personal calls to make. The driver raised an alarm when he did not return after a long time and his mobile phone was switched off. The police found his body on the track late in the night. The police recovered a note from the spot. D. Ashok, Deputy Superintendent, Railway Police, refused to disclose its contents. The Railway Police filed an unnatural death report and launched a probe. BJP national general secretary and Chikkamagaluru MLA C.T. Ravi, who shared the dais with Mr. Gowda on Monday, said he had, in the note, expressed disappointment at the recent incidents in the Council, sought forgiveness of family members for his decision, listed his properties and issued directions on how they should be shared among his children Sonal S.D. and Saloni S.D. JD(S) leader H.D. Kumaraswamy termed it a ‘political murder’. “The selfish, cut-throat political culture of the State murdered a sensitive man like Dharme Gowda. All of us need to introspect,” he lamented, blaming both the Congress and the BJP for the fracas in the Council on December 15, without taking names. He said Mr. Gowda had felt “humiliated” and had been “very upset” since then. Meanwhile, BJP and Congress leaders condoled the death of the leader, but desisted from making any political comments. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, former Prime Minister H.D. Deve Gowda and Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah paid their last respects to the departed leader. The last rites were held at the family’s farm in Sakharayapatna on Tuesday evening.  (Those in distress or those having suicidal tendencies can call Arogya Sahayavani on phone 104 for help)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/jds-leader-found-dead-on-rail-track/article33449337.ece
30 December 2020||HUBBALLI,||Counting today of votes in gram panchayat polls||With all set for counting of votes in the gram panchayat elections in the districts of Dharwad, Gadag, Haveri and Uttara Kannada on Wednesday, the respective Deputy Commissioners have imposed prohibitory orders as a precautionary measure and also a ban on liquor in rural areas. The Deputy Commissioners of the respective districts reviewed the preparations for the counting of votes being held in the respective taluks. As the number of seats contested are in thousands, counting is likely to take a longer time than expected. Since votes were cast using ballot papers, it will also add to the delay in announcing results. Elaborate arrangements have been made in these districts for counting of votes. Also, elaborate security arrangements have been made as a precautionary measure. In Dharwad district, prohibitory orders under Section 144 of Cr.PC have been imposed by Deputy Commissioner Nitesh Patil from 6 a.m. on Wednesday to 6 a.m. on Thursday (December 31). Consequent to the imposition of prohibitory orders, assembly of over five persons, processions and meetings are banned. Carrying of arms and lethal weapons or roaming around carrying them are strictly prohibited. Sloganeering, singing, playing musical instruments are also banned. Mr. Patil has said that any violation would be strictly dealt with and those violating the orders would be detained immediately. However, the prohibitory orders would not apply to funerals, marriages, religious processions and COVID-19 activities, he clarified. Mr. Patil has also announced a ban on liquor sale and storage from Tuesday midnight to 6 a.m. of Thursday (December 31). The dry day order will be applicable to Dharwad Rural, Alnavar, Hubballi Rural, Kalghatgi, Kundgol, Navalgund and Annigeri taluks barring areas under the municipal corporation limits of Hubballi Dharwad, town municipal councils and town panchayats.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/counting-today-of-votes-in-gram-panchayat-polls/article33449473.ece
30 December 2020||Bengaluru,||Apartment sealed after two test positive||An apartment in Vasanthpura ward has been sealed by the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) after two residents — a 35-year-old woman and her six-year-old daughter, who returned from the United Kingdom on December 19 — tested positive for the new variant of the coronavirus. Banners proclaiming “Home Quarantine – don’t visit us now” have been put up on the barricades outside. The civic body has also put up barricades up to 100 metres on either side of the building.BBMP sources, however, did not specify for how long the apartment, which has a total of 15 flats, would be sealed. While some said it would remain sealed for 28 days, others claimed it wouldbe for 14 days. There was much drama on Tuesday morning at the apartment after the two residents tested positive. Civic officials and local police arrived to take the 37 residents to a quarantine facility. This was after the civic body deemed all the residents of the apartment as secondary contacts. However, the residents refused to move to a quarantine facility, and alleged harassmentby the civic officials. They questioned the need to be shifted when all of them had tested negative. “The family which tested positive has been in the hospital for over a week now. After they tested positive, the apartment complex was sanitised by BBMP and we were all tested. Let them administer another round of tests, but let them allow us to remain at home,” a resident said. Police have been deployed outside the apartment and vigil is being maintained to ensure there is no movement in and out of the sealed off area. BBMP’s Special Commissioner (Health) Rajendra Cholan said as per the Standard Operating Procedures issued by the MHA, the primary contacts have to be admitted in an institutional quarantine facility and closely monitored. “The residents requested us to allow them to undergo home quarantine. We have now decided to put in place the SOPs of quarantine facility in the apartment complex,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/apartment-sealed-after-two-test-positive/article33449802.ece
30 December 2020||Satara,||New Year celebrations to end early in Mahabaleshwar||As revellers are flocking Mahabaleshwar and Panchgani hill stations in Maharashtra to ring in the New Year, local authorities have restricted holding of all events beyond 10 p.m. on December 31, and invoked Section 144 of the CrPC banning assembly of more than four people, as per an official order issued on Tuesday. Besides, hotels, restaurants and roadside dhabas in Satara district, in which these hill stations are located, will not be allowed to operate beyond 11 p.m. on New Year eve, collector Shekhar Singh said in the official order. However, the hotels, restaurants and dhabas (roadside eateries) located on National Highways have been excluded from the order. “It has become important to impose some curbs on December 31 in view of the COVID-19 situation and the influx of tourists in Mahabaleshwar and Panchgani,” the order said. The collector has warned of action against violators under the Disaster Management Act and the Indian Penal Code (IPC).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/new-year-celebrations-to-end-early-in-mahabaleshwar/article33449998.ece
30 December 2020||MANGALURU,||Counting of votes at seven centres in Udupi today||Counting of votes cast in the recent gram panchayat elections in Udupi district will be taken up in seven counting centres in as many taluks on Wednesday, according to Udupi Deputy Commissioner G. Jagadeesha. Addressing presspersons in Udupi on Tuesday, he said that counting will start at 8 a.m. and only the candidate or his agent will be allowed inside the counting centre. Voting was conducted to 863 wards in the seven taluks in 1,136 polling booths. Meanwhile, a total of 948 personnel have been deputed for the smooth conduct of the counting process, Mr. Jagadeesha said. Instructions have been given to returning officers to wear masks and ensure everyone connected with the counting process follows the COVID-19 protocols announced by the State government. He said that the process could take a long time as counting will have to take into consideration single and multi-member wards for each one of the gram panchayats. The administration in the run-up to and during the polls, registered one case of poll code violation wherein a candidate distributed pamphlets with the symbol of a political party, he said.  Prohibitory orders Meanwhile, the Deputy Commissioners of Dakshina Kannada and Udupi have prohibited the movement of people in groups in a 200 m radius of gram panchayat counting centres between midnight on December 29 and midnight on December 30. The counting centres in Dakshina Kannada district are in Bantwal, Puttur, Belthangady, Sullia and Kadaba. People have been barred from taking victory procession, raising provocative slogans, singing songs and carrying of arms in the prohibited area. The order does not apply to programmes of the government and to those involved in election duty, a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/counting-of-votes-at-seven-centres-in-udupi-today/article33449968.ece
30 December 2020||MADURAI,||2 U.K. returnees test positive||Two more persons, who had travelled from the U.K. to Madurai, tested positive for COVID-19, said Deputy Director of Health Services K.V. Arjun Kumar. Health Department officials across the State are strictly monitoring and testing all those who have travelled from the U.K. Dr. Arjun Kumar said the State government had given a second list of 38 names of persons who had travelled from the U.K. to Madurai. Samples were lifted from 32 of them. “Samples will be lifted from five others on Wednesday. The remaining one is not traceable,” he said. The results of two of the 32 persons who were tested had returned positive for COVID-19 and 21 persons had tested negative. The test results of nine persons were still awaited, he said. Earlier, a 38-year-old man, who had travelled from the U.K. in the last week of November, had tested positive for COVID-19 and is currently under treatment at the Government Hospital for Thoracic Medicine at Thoppur. His sample has been sent to the National Institute of Virology, Pune, for genomic analysis. He was among the initial batch of 83 persons who had travelled from the U.K. and were monitored by the Health Department officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/2-uk-returnees-test-positive/article33449954.ece
30 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Major reforms in higher education sector on the anvil||The higher education sector is likely to become a key beneficiary of the upcoming State Budget. Besides earmarking a significant portion of allocation for infrastructure development, the government has set its sights on ushering in reforms before heading for the Assembly elections. The Left Democratic Front (LDF) government had succeeded in realising some of its ambitious goals such as setting up the State Assessment and Accreditation Centre (SAAC) and the Sree Narayana Guru Open University, both of which have been in the pipeline for long. Sources say the government may give shape to more projects during the fag end of its rule. “There will be a greater focus on enhancing facilities and reforms to boost research in higher education institutions. Interventions are also likely to plug inadequacies in online learning,” a source said. KSHEC proposals The Kerala State Higher Education Council (KSHEC) has submitted proposals, including steps to institutionalise use of multimedia tools for online teaching. A ‘centre for transformative educational technology’ has been mooted to address the needs of technology-enhanced teaching and learning. According to council vice chairman Rajan Gurukkal P.M., higher education has been undergoing transformative change through techno-padagogy based on technologies of artificial intelligence, augmented reality, virtual reality, and mixed reality. “Teachers require workshops and hands-on training in multimedia tools, considering online teaching without its sophisticated multimedia digital content is a tedious job for teachers and a burden for students,” he says.  Special programme The KSHEC has also called for introducing a special programme for cross-disciplinary teaching. The proposed programme aims to impart cross-disciplinary literacy among teachers to adapt themselves to emerging fields of knowledge in which disciplines converge.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/major-reforms-in-higher-education-sector-on-the-anvil/article33449514.ece
30 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Promises will be fulfilled, says Mayor||Putting forth her aim as the all-round development of the capital city, Thiruvananthapuram Corporation Mayor Arya Rajendran said all the hundred councillors will work together towards this aim. At her first formal interaction with the Press on Tuesday after taking charge as Mayor, Ms. Rajendran said: “Development certainly is her priority. The Left Democratic Front (LDF) had, in its election manifesto ahead of the local body elections, made promises in various sectors, be it related to the youth or women or regarding waste management. There was a Corporation-specific manifesto too. Based on this, we will look at what all the public wants to be implemented immediately. We will prioritise these tasks based on the feedback from each of the councillors on the ground. For this, we will all set aside politics and work together unitedly. We also have to ensure that all of that we are doing is reaching the public.” As for the immediate priority, she said preparing the schools and colleges, which had remained closed for several months owing to the COVID-19 pandemic, to welcome the children after reopening would be one of the tasks to be taken up. “As a student myself, cleaning up the water tanks and surroundings and ensuring a safe environment for the students would be a priority,” she said.  Waste management Her other priorities include waste management and awareness campaigns among the public to reduce dumping of waste, steps to address joblessness among the youth, and ensuring a safe environment in the city for women at night. Asked whether the relative inexperience would affect her, she said she did not believe herself to be inexperienced. “I do not believe that age is a factor which decides a person’s maturity. I have gained a lot of life experience from working with Balasangham as well as the students’ movements. I have some clarity on how to handle various situations from a leadership position. Those who criticise me are those who do not know me personally. I will reply to such criticisms with my actions, rather than my words,” she said. She said that any administration should have a judicious mix of youth and experience, as both are required in equal measure to get things done.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/promises-will-be-fulfilled-says-arya/article33449937.ece
30 December 2020||CHENNAI,||Moderate rain likely in some parts of Tamil Nadu||Tamil Nadu may receive its last rain spell for the season in the next two days. The Meteorological Department has forecast that light to moderate rain may occur over a few places in the coastal places and adjoining interior districts till December 31 and decrease by the early days of January. A cyclonic circulation over the southwest Bay of Bengal off south Sri Lanka with an associated trough of easterlies would influence the return of the wet spell over a few parts. Officials of the Meteorological Department said this may trigger rain over coastal Tamil Nadu and interior districts till the year-end. It may decrease and cover isolated places in coastal parts till January 2. Chennai experienced a generally cloudy sky and there are chances of light rain in some areas on Wednesday. The maximum and minimum temperature will be around 30 degrees Celsius and 24 degrees Celsius. S. Balachandran, Deputy Director General of Meteorology, Chennai, said as the weather system approaches the coast, interaction with cold land winds may weaken it. There are chances for the weather system to dissipate too. Rainfall may be restricted to light intensity. “We don’t expect this weak system to bring down the rain deficit experienced in some districts. We’ll wait for a few days before declaring the end of the northeast monsoon. Dry weather condition is one of the criteria for the withdrawal of the monsoon,” he said. Even if there is a spillover in monsoon rain, rainfall from January 1 will be accounted as winter rain. The State has recorded 47 cm of rainfall, which is 5% more than its seasonal average of 45 cm since October 1. Nearly 10 districts received excess rainfall, varying between 29% and 44% this season. Chennai, Tirupathur and Villupuram are some districts that received excess rain. While Cyclone Nivar brought rain over northern parts of the State, cyclone Burevi covered the deficit in most southern districts.  A cyclonic circulation over southwest Bay of Bengal with an associated trough of easterlies would influence return of wet spell||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/moderate-rain-likely-in-some-parts-of-tamil-nadu/article33449376.ece
30 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Centre, farmers to resume sixth round of talks today||As farmer leaders and Central Ministers sit down for the sixth round of talks at Vigyan Bhavan on Wednesday afternoon, neither side expects any immediate breakthrough. Little has changed in terms of negotiating positions in the three weeks since talks broke down, according to farmer leaders, despite growing pressure on the ground. Farmers rallies were held in Bihar and Tamil Nadu on Tuesday, buttressing the claim that the agitation is not restricted to Punjab groups. Official response In their official response sent to the Agriculture Ministry on Tuesday, farmer groups reiterated that repeal of the three farm laws is the first point in their agenda for Wednesday’s talks. Accepting the invitation for the 2 p.m. meeting, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha said, “We remind you that we are coming to this dialogue on the following agenda given in our previous letter.” The Samyukt Kisan Morcha then listed “Modalities to be adopted to repeal” three contentious agricultural reform laws as the first agenda point.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/centre-farmers-to-resume-talks/article33449332.ece
30 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Third tranche of Rythu Bharosa amount, Nivar input subsidy released||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Tuesday released the third tranche of ‘YSR Rythu Bharosa-PM Kisan’ of Rs. 1,120 crore benefiting 51.59 lakh farmers along with the compensation of Rs. 646 crore for crop damage during the Nivar cyclone supporting 8.34 lakh farmers. A total of Rs. 1,766 crore was deposited in the farmers’ bank accounts with a single click. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Jagan said the State government had spent Rs. 61,400 crore towards farmers’ welfare in the last 18 months. The government was committed to safeguarding the farmers’ interests and thus provided Rs. 13,101 crore under YSR Rythu Bharosa-PM Kisan by giving Rs. 13,500 every year to 51.59 lakh farmers. The beneficiaries include tenant farmers and those cultivating the forest lands, he said, adding, he believed that the State would be better if the farmer was happy and doing well. Stating that the government’s goal was to ensure that farmers got good returns, Mr. Jagan said to achieve it Rythu Bharosa Kendras, agrilabs and marketing units were established. Cold storage units, godowns, primary and secondary processing units and Janata Bazaars were established at the village level, he said. The Chief Minister alleged that the previous government had abandoned farmers and cheated on them by promising to waive Rs. 87,612 crore of farm loans, but had hardly spent Rs. 12,000 crore in its five-year rule. The previous TDP government had left a huge pile of debts of farmers including subsidy for crops, seeds, insurance, electricity arrears, and zero-interest loans. With regard to input subsidy, he said the State government had paid Rs. 1,038.46 crore between June and November compensating the crop loss due to heavy rains and floods. Also, the government had cleared the unpaid dues of the previous government to the tune of Rs. 960 crore for paddy procurement, arrears of Rs. 383 crore was also paid under the seed subsidy, Rs. 17,430 crore on free electricity and aqua farmers, including Rs. 8,655 crore of debt, he added. Chief Secretary Nilam Sawhney, Minister for Agriculture Kurasala Kannababu, Special Chief Secretary Poonam Malakondaiah, Commissioner of Agriculture Arun Kumar, Special Commissioner of Disaster Management Kannababu, Special Commissioner of Marketing department PS Pradhyumna, AP Agri Mission Vice-Chairman MVS Nagireddy, and other officials were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/third-tranche-of-rythu-bharosa-amount-nivar-input-subsidy-released/article33449278.ece
30 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Rs. 198.50 cr. ‘Tourism Restart’ package for hospitality sector||The State government has approved the new Tourism Policy, 2020-25. A Government Order that was released in this regard said the new policy comes into effect immediately and will remain in force up to March 31 in 2025. To help the tourism sector tide over the financial crisis inflicted by the COVID-19 pandemic, the government has approved a ‘Tourism Restart’ package comprising a Rs. 198.50 crore loan for hotels/MICE and function halls, restaurants and other service providers by extending interest subsidy at 50% of the interest on the loan of 12 months, subject to a maximum of 4.50% of the loan amount for one year. Handholding needed As per the data collated by various associations, registration on the trade and tourism portal and the subsequent rationalisation of the numbers, the department estimated that an amount of Rs. 198.50 crore would be required towards the working capital with a view to handhold the tourism sector through the crisis that has been brought upon by the pandemic. The loan assistance of Rs. 198.50 crore will be shared by 3,910 establishments, including 900 hotels, 350 MICE and function halls, 160 service providers and 2,500 restaurants (standalone), according to officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rs-19850-cr-tourism-restart-package-for-hospitality-sector/article33449279.ece
30 December 2020||Special CorrespondentPune,||Maharashtra reports 5,500 more recoveries||Maharashtra reported a high number of recoveries on Tuesday, with as many as 5,572 discharges as opposed to 3,018 new COVID-19 cases. As per State Health Department figures, the active case tally has now come down to 54,537 while the total case tally stands at 19,25,066. With 68 fatalities, the total death toll climbed to 49,373. The cumulative recoveries now stand at 18,20,021. The State’s recovery rate has risen to 94.54%. “Of a total 1,26,00,754 laboratory samples tested thus far, 19,25,066 (with the case positivity rate down to 15.28%) have returned positive with over 57,000 samples being tested in the last 24 hours,” said State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate, adding that the case fatality has dipped incrementally to 2.56%. Pune district reported over 500 new cases to take its case tally to 3,71,475 and 14 deaths, taking the fatalties to 7,740. As per district administration figures, the active case tally has declined dramatically, with just 6,700-odd cases at present while the district’s recovery rate has gone up to 95.64%. Mumbai city reported 537 new cases to take its total case tally to 2,92,008 of whom only 8,940 are active. Six fatalities saw the city’s death toll reach 11,094. Nagpur district in Vidarbha reported more than 350 new cases, taking the district’s total case tally to 1,24,532 of whom 4,533 are currently active. Three deaths saw the total death toll climb to 3,197. Districts in western Maharashtra continued to report low case surges and fatalities. Satara reported four deaths to take its cumulative death toll to 1,755 while 48 cases saw the total case tally rise to 54,391 of whom 845 are active. Neighbouring Sangli reported only 31 cases and a single death as the district’s reported cases reached 50,097, of whom only 330 are active. The death toll stands at 1,766. Kolhapur reported eight cases for the second consecutive day and not a single fatality as its total case tally reached 49,106 of whom just 494 are active. The death toll stands at 1,658. In north Maharashtra, Nashik district reported more than 300 cases and three deaths as the case tally reached 114,741 of whom 2,066 are active. Its death toll stands at 1,889. Jalgaon reported 66 new cases and three deaths as itstally reached 56,022 of whom only 542 are active.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/maharashtra-reports-5500-more-recoveries/article33449996.ece
30 December 2020||LUCKNOW,||HC orders probe into assault on lawyer in U.P.||The Allahabad High Court on Tuesday ordered an inquiry into the alleged assault on a government lawyer by the police at Etah in Uttar Pradesh and directed the Chief Judicial Magistrate (CJM) of the district to submit a report on the findings. The police said they had resorted to using “necessary force” against the lawyer and his family in order to evict them from the spot and prevent escalation of law and order problems and communal tension in the locality after a Muslim youth was shot in the abdomen in firing. The police have accused Rajendra Sharma, who is additional district government counsel, of using his licensed pistol to fire at government officials and policemen who reached his house on December 21 on a complaint that he was trying to forcibly capture his neighbour’s property. Taking suo motu cognisance, the High Court sought a complete report of the incident from the CJM of Etah. A Division Bench of Chief Justice Govind Mathur and Justice Saumitra Dayal Singh directed the CJM to conduct the inquiry by availing of all relevant facts, including audio and video proof, and submit the report on or before January 8. The court directed the district police chief and District Magistrate of Etah to cooperate with the CJM. The judges had taken into consideration letters and memoranda sent to the Chief Justice of the High Court by lawyers agitated over the incident, including one by the Bar Council of Uttar Pradesh. The matter relates to an old property dispute between Rajendra Sharma and Avinash Sharma, another lawyer, in Katra Mohalla in the Kotwali area of Etah. According to the police, Mr. Rajendra had been staying in a portion of the house as tenant for the last 30 years, while tenant Rekha Sharma lived in the other part of the house. Both Mr. Rajendra and Mr. Avinash had claimed in 2013 that they had deeds for the entire house; Mr. Avinash’s claim included the portion in which Ms. Rekha lived. Property dispute The dispute over the house is sub-judice in a local civil court. In October 2019, Ms. Rekha submitted a capitulation letter in court in favour of evicting from her portion for Mr. Avinash, which the court accepted. On December 21, when Ms. Rekha had gone to Agra, Mr. Rajendra allegedly beat up the caretaker of the house, Gaya Prasad Jatav, threw away his belongings and used casteist language against him, the police alleged. Etah Superintendent of Police Sunil Kumar Singh said when officials reached the spot to address the issue, Mr. Rajendra allegedly started firing at them with his licensed gun while his family members, including women, threw stones at them. The police also released a video of the alleged acts. In the chaos, a bystander, Arbaaz, 22, was shot in the abdomen, following which he was rushed to a hospital, said Mr. Singh. To prevent a serious law and order situation and communal tension, Mr. Rajendra and his family members were “evicted safely” from the house using “necessary force”, in a decision taken in the presence of a Magistrate, the SP said. A video of the incident, shared widely on social media, showed a police team breaking a door of the house and dragging out Mr. Rajendra. He and his family members were booked under various sections of IPC and SC/ST Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hc-orders-probe-into-assault-on-lawyer-in-up/article33449654.ece
30 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||No ‘COVID leave’ without proof in Delhi police||“Coming in contact with a COVID-positive patient” may no longer be a valid reason to avail of leave for Delhi policemen. Call it a sign of normalcy returning to the city or a depleted force trying to optimise the available human resource, leave requests that were being granted on this precautionary ground for the past few months will have to go through a stricter scrutiny now. Only those who are confirmed COVID-19 positive and have the documents declaring the same can take pandemic-related medical leave. An order issued by the office of a senior police officer has instructed all police districts and other units to allow leave only to those police personnel who have tested positive for COVID-19. “Earlier during lockdown, many police personnel were allowed home quarantine leave after they came in contact with a COVID-19 positive person or were identified during contact tracing. But it was seen that many police personnel were misusing this provision and other police personnel who were regularly exposed during deployment were unable to get leave due to shortage of manpower,” said the officer. Drop in cases The officer said cases of COVID-19 infection have also come down in the city. And because of the ongoing farmers’ protest at Delhi borders, police personnel are already doing a 12-hour shift. “To keep the force motivated and healthy, instructions have been issued to all officers to ensure that all police personnel get leave and in case of medical leave, only COVID-19 positive or other emergency situations are considered,” added the officer. The Delhi police have also rolled back the amount of Rs. 1 lakh given to policemen who get infected with COVID-19 while on duty. A total of 7,393 Delhi police personnel have tested positive for COVID-19 so far. The recovery rate is good in the force and 6,806 policemen have recovered and resumed duty. Around 587 police personnel are undergoing treatment at hospitals or are under home quarantine. “We have lost 30 men due to the COVID-19 infection. Most of them were carrying out their responsibilities to contain the spread of the pandemic,” said a senior police officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-covid-leave-without-proof-in-delhi-police/article33449656.ece
30 December 2020||BELAGAVI,||Attempts to convince Belagavi flag activists fail yet again||Attempts by the district administration to convince Kannada activists to remove the Kannada flag that they had put up without permission in front of the Belagavi City Corporation failed in Belagavi on Tuesday. Officers of the police and other departments tried to speak to leaders of Kannada groups and asked them to put up the flag post and a flag after obtaining due permission. Activists argued that the government could issue permits with retrospective effect. A meeting of Deputy Commissioner M.G. Hiremath with activists in his office failed to convince them. They countered the argument of officers that the government should treat the flag issue just as it had handled the Sangolli Rayanna and Shivaji Circle issue in Peeranwadi and accord them post-facto permits. Corporation commissioner K.G. Jagadish, who visited the spot, asked the activists to take down the flag in the evening as per the flag code. However, activist Srinivas Talukar argued that the flag code was not applicable to the Kannada flag. Activists celebrated Kuvempu Jayanti near the flag post by singing the poet’s songs and paying respects to his portrait. They said that they had slept on the road, guarding the pole on Monday night. They would do continue to do so till the government legalised the erection of the flag pole. Maharashtra Ekikaran Samiti Youth Wing members took a rally to the Deputy Commissioner’s office and demanded that the government explain how it had allowed a flag post to be erected without due permits.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/attempts-to-convince-belagavi-flag-activists-fail-yet-again/article33449471.ece
30 December 2020||HYDERABAD,||Registration of open plots to be allowed in authorised layouts||Giving relief to prospective buyers/sellers of non-agricultural properties, the Registration and Stamps department has said registrations in respect of open plots/structures can be taken up if the property is acquired by the present owner through a valid registered document earlier. The Registration and Stamps Commissioner said certain instructions had been issued with regard to registration of plots and structures, but certain difficulties had been encountered by public and several representations were received. In view of this, partial modification of instructions had been issued after careful consideration of relevant provisions to obviate any hardship relating to registration of the documents. Accordingly, registrations could be taken up in respect of open plots/structures if the same has been acquired by the present owner through a valid registered document earlier. However, no “new plot” should be registered unless it had been approved by the competent authority or was in an authorised layout. New plot meant a fresh plot which was being brought for registration for the first time or was being sold by developers for the first time. There was no restriction on registration of plots in authorised layouts, plots regularised under earlier LRS scheme and buildings/structures covered under earlier BPS/BRS schemes. The sub-registrars as also the district registrars and deputy inspectors general of the department had been asked to follow the instructions scrupulously. The latest modification in the orders follow a series of protests staged by the real estate owners and people against the Layout Regularisation Scheme demanding the withdrawal of the orders. They were protesting against the “massive amounts” that were being charged for registration of plots. The government, in its orders, said it was the last chance for registration of unauthorised plots and layouts across the State till January end claiming that the registration window would be closed thereafter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/registration-of-open-plots-to-be-allowed/article33449882.ece
30 December 2020||MANGALURU,||Controversy over land forces postponement of Beary Bhavan foundation stone-laying function||Karnataka Beary Sahitya Academy has postponed the foundation stone-laying ceremony for the Beary Bhavan near Thokkottu scheduled on January 1, according to academy chairman Rahim Uchil. It is due to controversy over the land identified for constructing the bhavan. Addressing presspersons here on Tuesday, he said that fans of Rani Abbakka are upset after Mangaluru MLA and former district in-charge Minister U. T. Khader stated that the Beary Bhavan will come up on the land reserved for the Abbakka Bhavan with his (Mr. Khader’s) consent. Now, the queen’s fans have opposed construction of the Beary Bhavan. But, the academy chairman said, the Beary Bhavan will not be built on the land reserved for the Abbakka Bhavan. In all, 42 cents of land has been reserved for building the Abbakka Bhavan. The academy will not use that land. The Beary Bhavan will be built on an adjacent 25 cents of land reserved for building the offices of village accountant and surveyor. Once the Beary Bhavan is ready, the offices of village accountant and surveyor will be housed in the same place. The Abbakka Utsava Samithi has been apprised of the matter, he said. The Beary Bhavan will have facility for parking on the basement. The first floor will have a hall for presenting cultural programmes. The second floor will have the office of the Beary Sahitya Academy. The third floor will house the offices of village accountant and the surveyor. The public can have access to the blue print of the bhavan that has been prepared, he added. He said that the land for building the Abbakka Bhavan had been reserved a decade ago. But the Abbakka Bhavan has not become a reality. Now, some are upset that the Beary Bhavan is coming up on the adjacent land. Hence, the Abbakka Utsava Samithi and some local organisations have said that they will hold a silent protest on January 1. Hence, the academy will not like to lay the foundation stone for the bhavan amid controversy and by hurting people’s sentiments. The academy will take all people and organisations into confidence and apprise them of the reality and will lay the foundation stone for the bhavan on a later date. It will also appeal to the government to do justice to the proposed Abbakka Bhavan. The academy chairman said that the proposed project should unite all and not divide society.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/controversy-over-land-forces-postponement-of-beary-bhavan-foundation-stone-laying-function/article33449967.ece
30 December 2020||Kolkata,||‘Visva-Bharati plunging into mindless discourse’||Visva-Bharati is being dragged into a mindless discourse that undermines everything that founder Rabindranath Tagore stood for, according to a poet’s family member who runs an institution for children in Santiniketan, where the university is located. “What Rabindranath Tagore and Visva-Bharati stand for might be subjective, but the Visva-Bharati Act 1951 clearly states that the university must function according to the ideals/ideas of Tagore,” Sudripta Tagore, who is a descendant of Rabindranath’s elder brother Satyendranath, told The Hindu . Mr. Tagore is a former student of the university and in April 2019 — after over three decades of being engaged in educational activities in India and abroad — he returned to Santiniketan to open the Sishutirtha School with the purpose of “marrying Rabindranath’s ideas and modern pedagogy.” Visva-Bharati, which turns 100 next year, has of late been hopping from one controversy to another, mostly related to the decisions taken by the current Vice-Chancellor, Prof. Bidyut Chakrabarty, which are often seen by long-serving teachers and alumni alike as authoritarian. Ever since he took charge two years ago, staff was prohibited from speaking to the media, disciplinary action against teachers over what seemed to be trivial matters became commonplace, and walls began to be constructed to secure the university’s boundaries. Also during his tenure, several right-wing ideologues were invited as speakers and Home Minister Amit Shah — even though he has no statutory role in the institution — was honoured. Most recently, the university alleged that the ancestral home of Nobel laureate Amartya Sen — not an admirer of the Central Government — stood on a plot that included illegally-acquired land. “Though Rabindranath was very politically aware, he never subscribed to any mainstream politics of his time. Forget about guarding against it, deliberately dragging the university into such mindless discourse is undermining all that Rabindranath stood for,” Mr. Tagore said. Community, alumni “Community and alumni — these two were the strongest strands in building the meaningful ecosystem that is Visva-Bharati. Today a deliberate attempt is being made to cut Visva-Bharati off from these two. Who loses? The students. They could have done much better with the backing of a strong alumni,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/visva-bharati-plunging-into-mindless-discourse/article33449539.ece
30 December 2020||Staff ReporterKADAPA,||TDP leader murdered||Nandam Subbaiah (40), district official spokesperson of Telugu Desam Party, was allegedly murdered by unidentified persons at a “Pedalandariki Illu” venture located at Somulavaripalle panchayat of Proddatur mandal, on Tuesday. According to information, the deceased, a native of Proddatur town, had reached the venture, 12 km away, to look into allegations of bias in allotment of plots to the beneficiaries. While he was standing in the middle of a house site, unknown assailants surrounded him and allegedly attacking him with lethal weapons killing him on the spot. Deputy SP (Proddatur) Y. Prasada Rao told The Hindu that the deceased, an advocate, had over a dozen cases against him, including those of grave offences such as attempt to murder and prohibited gaming activities. The Deputy SP said that in view of the likely arrival of key functionaries of the TDP to attend the funeral, heavy police bandobust was kept in place to prevent any untoward incident. Case registered The official said a case was registered under Section 302 of the IPC on a complaint from Subbaiah’s wife. It was said that Subbaiah used to be active on social media, targeting the ruling YSRCP cadres, with allegations of their links to anti-social activities. His family members alleged the hand of Proddatur MLA R. Siva Prasad Reddy in the murder. But, the legislator, speaking to the media, denied the allegations against him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tdp-leader-murdered/article33449338.ece
30 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Woman found carrying U.K. strain of coronavirus||One of the 24 U.K. returnees, who tested positive for novel coronavirus, was found carrying the new strain of the virus in the State as of Tuesday, according to the Department of Health and Family Welfare Commissioner Katamneni Bhaskar. However, the woman in Rajamahendravaram had not spread the virus to anyone, as her close contacts and the situation in State was totally under control, Mr. Bhaskar said in a release issued on Tuesday. He said there was no evidence of spread of the new strain of coronavirus in the State. Mr. Bhaskar said the woman’s son and another close contact tested negative. As many as 24 persons, including 12 U.K. returnees and 12 more of their 6,364 contacts, have tested positive. “All the 24 samples were sent to CCMB, Hyderabad, for further tests and one result issued stated that the patient was carrying the U.K. strain. The results of 23 samples are yet to be received,” he said. He said so far 1,423 U.K. returnees were identified and 1,406 were traced, while 17 were yet to be traced.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/woman-found-carrying-uk-strain-of-coronavirus/article33449335.ece
30 December 2020||Raina Assainar Navi Mumbai,||Khopoli woman tests positive on 20th day||A 57-year-old woman from Khopoli, who flew back from the U.K. on December 8, tested positive for COVID-19 on the 20th day after her return. She is currently admitted at Panvel municipal hospital. The lady had gone to visit her daughter in the U.K. “We had a list which showed three people in Khopoli. We have traced two of them, including this lady who was contacted on December 25. She was asked to get herself tested. After her result came on December 28, she was referred to Panvel municipal hospital,” a medical officer from Khopoli said. The patient’s sample has now been sent to National Institute of Virology, Pune.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/khopoli-woman-tests-positive-on-20th-day/article33449994.ece
30 December 2020||Mumbai,||Coldest day in Mumbai||Mumbaikars woke up to a chilly morning on Tuesday as the minimum temperature dipped to 15 degree Celsius, the lowest in the season, according to an IMD official. The cold spell is expected to continue for 48 hours, he said. Temperatures also dropped in various cities across Maharashtra.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/coldest-day-in-mumbai/article33449997.ece
30 December 2020||MANGALURU,||No entry to beaches for three days||Dakshina Kannada district administration has barred entry of people, except fishermen, to Panambur, Tannirbhavi, Surathkal, Ullal, Someshwara, Mogaveerpatna and Sasihitlu beaches between noon of December 31 and noon of January 2. In a press release here, Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra has said that the ban on entry of people to beaches is to prevent congregations for year-end and New Year celebrations, which can lead to the spread of new strain of COVID-19. Hence, notification under Section 34 of the Disaster Management Act has been issued, Dr. Rajendra added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-entry-to-beaches-for-three-days/article33449969.ece
30 December 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,||NMR services to resume on December 31||The Salem division of Southern Railways has announced the resumption of train services on the Nilgiri Mountain Railway (NMR) line from December 31. In a press release, the Railways announced that the entire Mettupalayam-Udhagamandalam section would reopen. Services had been suspended since March 20 due to the pandemic. “Upon resumption, the NMR services will be operated as fully reserved special trains,” the press release added. One pair will be run between Mettupalayam and Udhagamandalam and three pairs operated between Coonoor and Udhagamandalam. The Railways stated that all COVID-19 safety protocols would be enforced and urged passengers to wear masks and maintain social distancing. The fare structure in force prior to the COVID-19 outbreak would continue, the release added. Only passengers who have reserved tickets will be allowed to board the trains. Advance booking for the special trains has been opened.  The railways stated that all COVID-19 safety protocols would be enforced and urged passengers to wear masks and maintain social distancing||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/nmr-services-to-resume-from-december-31/article33449850.ece
30 December 2020||Kochi,||Order on Sivasankar’s bail plea today||The Economic Offences Court, Ernakulam, will pronounce its decision on the bail application of M. Sivasankar, former Principal Secretary to the Chief Minister, in the diplomatic channel gold smuggling case on Wednesday. As the case came up for hearing before judicial officer S. Deepu, counsel for the former bureaucrat contended that the Customs could not come up with any evidence to prove his culpability. There was nothing on record to prove the involvement of the accused. The Customs could not produce any detail on how the accused allegedly aided or abetted the other accused or his modus operandi. All that the Customs could produce on record were the statements issued by some of the co-accused who were in custody for long, argued S. Rajeev, counsel for the accused. The accused needed to know the offences charged against him to defend his case. He also needed to know why he had been incarcerated, he submitted. He also pointed out that all the other accused in the case had been given statutory bail by the court. There was no need for any further custody of the accused as the investigation was over. Opposing the bail application, senior lawyer S. Ramkumar, who appeared for the Customs, contended that Mr. Sivasankar had travelled to the UAE seven times in the company of the key accused in the case. The expenses of the official, including his stay in the foreign country in luxury hotels, were met by the co-accused. The purpose of the repeated visits to the UAE needed to be probed, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/order-on-sivasankars-bail-plea-today/article33449510.ece
30 December 2020||December 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Official allays efficacy fears||There is no evidence that current vaccines will fail to protect against COVID-19 variants reported from the U.K. or South Africa, Principal Scientific Adviser K. Vijay Raghavan said at a Health Ministry press meet on Tuesday.page 10||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/official-allays-efficacy-fears/article33449344.ece
30 December 2020||December 30 2020 00:00 IST,||U.K. flight ban may continue||The ban on flights from the U.K., imposed till December 31, is likely to be extended until the government gets a “fuller picture” of the new strain, Minister of State for Civil Aviation Hardeep Puri said on Tuesday.page 10||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/uk-flight-ban-may-continue/article33449345.ece
30 December 2020||December 30 2020 00:00 IST,||No increase in deaths: study||Preliminary results from a cohort study found no statistically significant difference in hospitalisa-tion, number of fatalities and likelihood of reinfection between cases with the new variant and wild-type comparator cases.page 10||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-increase-in-deaths-study/article33449346.ece
30 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||‘No permission for New Year celebrations’||In view of the COVID-19 pandemic and spread of a new strain of coronavirus, the city police prohibited New Year celebrations across the commissionerate limits during the intervening night of December 31 and January 1. In a press release, Commissioner of Police B. Sreenivasulu said all establishments should be closed by 10 p.m. on December 31. He appealed to the public to stay indoors and celebrate at home as all kinds of New Year celebrations including events at hotels, cake cutting on the roads, gathering of people on the road, bursting crackers and others were prohibited. He said no special permissions would be given to hotels, function halls and other establishments to organise celebrations and wine shops would be closed by 8 p.m. while bar and restaurants will be allowed to open up to 11 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-permission-for-new-year-celebrations-says-police-commissioner/article33449354.ece
30 December 2020||Kolkata,||Step up vigil ahead of new year, says HC||The Calcutta High Court on Tuesday directed the West Bengal government to step up its vigil ahead of new year festivities to contain the COVID-19 pandemic. A Division Bench of Justice Mousami Bhattacharya and Kaushik Chandra, while expressing concerns about the crowding during Christmas, said that the police have to ensure that there are no large gatherings and that barricades are put at places where there is large assembly of people. The court directed the State's Chief Secretary and Home Secretary to supervise the arrangements and send a report to the State government. The High Court had intervened during Durga Puja and Kali Puja festival and directed that Puja pandals will be no entry zones. West Bengal on Tuesday reported 1,244 new COVID-19 cases taking the total to 5,49,715. The State recorded 30 deaths, taking the fatalities to 9,655. The discharge rate has improved to 95.92% and the active cases have declined to 12,788. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee has also asked officials to remain on guard against a new strain of coronavirus which has surfaced in the U.K.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/step-up-vigil-ahead-of-new-year-says-hc/article33449543.ece
30 December 2020||Patna,||Patna police lathi-charge protesting farmers||Thousands of farmers who took out a rally in Patna on Tuesday against the recent farm laws were baton-charged by the police and prevented from reaching Raj Bhavan. A group of citizens in Gaya also sat on a fast at the city’s Shantibagh demanding immediate scrapping of all three laws.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/patna-police-lathi-charge-protesting-farmers/article33449658.ece
30 December 2020||Bengaluru,||Students surprised by COMEDK exclusive round||Many seat aspirants who had signed up for the Consortium of Medical, Engineering and Dental Colleges of Karnataka counselling are disappointed over not being able to participate in the exclusive round of counselling, which began on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/students-surprised-by-comedk-exclusive-round/article33449803.ece
30 December 2020||Bengaluru,||Finance Officer of BU relieved of her post||The Finance Officer who had pointed out irregularities in the management of finances of Bangalore University was relieved of her post on Monday evening. K.R. Venugopal, Vice-Chancellor, issued an order relieving Parvathi H.B. of her post.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/finance-officer-of-bu-relieved-of-her-post/article33449805.ece
30 December 2020||Bengaluru,||New strain: BBMP steps up contact tracing||With three persons who have come to the city from the United Kingdom confirmed to have the new variant of the coronavirus, said to be more virulent and contagious, the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has said that it has stepped up contact tracing and isolating the primary and secondary contacts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/new-strain-bbmp-steps-up-contact-tracing/article33449806.ece
30 December 2020||New Delhi,||Capital records 703 new COVID-19 cases||The Capital recorded 703 new COVID-19 cases in the last 24 hours, taking the total number of cases to 6,24,118, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Tuesday. Also, 28 more deaths were reported in the past 24 hours, pushing the toll to 10,502. There are 6,122 active cases in the city at present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/capital-records-703-new-covid-19-cases/article33449862.ece
30 December 2020||New Delhi,||City’s air quality likely to deteriorate to ‘very poor’||The air quality of Delhi, Noida and Gurugram was in the “poor” category on Tuesday, said the Central Pollution Control Board. The AQI of the Capital is expected to deteriorate to the “very poor” category on Wednesday and to “severe” on Thursday and Friday. The minimum temperature on Monday was 3.6 °C, three degrees lower than the season’s average.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/delhi-air-quality-likely-to-deteriorate-to-very-poor/article33449659.ece
30 December 2020||HUBBALLI,||Temporary structures removed in Hubballi||In the backdrop of complaints about pavements being encroached upon by shopkeepers and vendors who have set up temporary structures, the Hubballi Dharwad Municipal Corporation (HDMC) on Tuesday carried out an encroachment clearance drive in the central business district of both Hubballi and Dharwad. The encroachment clearance drive which began in the morning was carried out for several hours despite objections by some shopkeepers and street vendors at some places.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/temporary-structures-removed-in-hubballi/article33449475.ece
30 December 2020||BELAGAVI,||Padayatra on Jan. 14||Basava Jaya Mruthyunjaya Swami, chief of the Kudalasangama Panchamsali Peetha, would be launching a 500-km-long padayatra from Kudalsangama to Bengaluru in January demanding inclusion of Panchamsali community under 2A category and inclusion of all Lingayat sub-sects in the Central OBCs list. Lingayat community has now pinned its hopes on Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/padayatra-on-jan-14/article33449476.ece
30 December 2020||Mumbai,||ED notice: Varsha Raut seeks time till Jan. 5||A day after Shiv Sena Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Raut alleged that an Enforcement Directorate (ED) notice to his wife, Varsha was part of a political vendetta, he said that she has sought time till January 5 to appear before the agency. “We have nothing to hide. We have every paper that is to be shown to the agency. Those who want to hide something will either abscond or join BJP. We are not going anywhere neither quitting the Sena,” said Mr Raut on Tuesday. Ms. Raut has been served the notice in connection with an alleged Rs. 4,300-crore money laundering case in the Punjab and Maharashtra Cooperative Bank. On Monday Mr. Raut had, at a press conference, lashed out at the opposition BJP accusing it of influencing the ED to destabilise the coalition Maha Vikas Aghadi government in Maharashtra.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ed-notice-varsha-raut-seeks-time-till-jan-5/article33449993.ece
30 December 2020||Pune,||Second nearby||Stating that Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut’s demand that NCP chief Sharad Pawar lead the UPA had driven a wedge between the Sena, NCP and Congress in Maharashtra, Union Minister Ramdas Athawale on Tuesday predicted that the Congress would pull out of the tripartite Maha Vikas Aghadi and the Uddhav Thackeray-led government would soon fall.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/second-nearby/article33449999.ece
30 December 2020||MANGALURU,||Udupi ready to welcome students to schools||The Udupi district administration has made all preparations for the re-opening of schools and pre-university colleges in the district on January 1, Deputy Commissioner G. Jagadeesha said on Tuesday. Addressing presspersons in Udupi, he said that the Department of Public Instruction in the district has held extensive meetings with the stakeholders to prepare ground for re-opening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/udupi-ready-to-welcome-students-to-schools/article33449974.ece
30 December 2020||Mysuru,||Construction waste recycling plant in Mysuru||Mysuru City Corporation on Tuesday gave approval for the establishment of a construction and demolition waste recycling plant in the city. Mayor Tasneem, who was chairing her last council meeting to mark the end of her tenure, said the contract would be for five years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/construction-waste-recycling-plant-in-mysuru/article33449628.ece
30 December 2020||Mysuru,||Gram panchayat polls: Counting of votes today||The fate of the candidates who contested the elections to gram panchayats in Mysuru district will be known on Wednesday. The counting of votes will begin at 8 a.m. and will go on till evening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/gram-panchayat-polls-counting-of-votes-today/article33449629.ece
30 December 2020||Bengaluru,||Experts suggest random genetic sequencing||With the new variant of SARS-CoV-2 circulating in the U.K. since September, there is a possibility the new strain has already been imported to Karnataka. To determine this, experts say there is a need to conduct genome sequencing of random samples that tested positive in October-November.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/experts-suggest-random-genetic-sequencing/article33449630.ece
30 December 2020||KARAIKUDI,||‘BJP-AIADMK tie-up will help DMK front win’||The dates for conducting the 2021 public examinations for Classes 10 and 12 would be made known soon, School Education Minister K.A. Sengottaiyan said here on Tuesday. The timetable would depend on the dates given by the EC for the Assembly election slated for May 2021.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/a-split-in-aiadmk-is-certain-stalin/article33449375.ece
30 December 2020||Namakkal,||Stalin spreading false news on Pongal gift: CM||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Tuesday said the Pongal cash gift scheme had received an overwhelm-ing response, and hence, DMK chief M.K. Stalin was spreading false news that AIADMK cadres were going door to door disbursing tokens for collecting the gift.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/stalin-spreading-false-news-on-pongal-gift-cm/article33449380.ece
30 December 2020||Chennai,||Daily COVID-19 count drops below 1,000||Tamil Nadu’s daily COVID-19 case count dropped below 1,000 for the first time in seven months. A total of 957 persons tested positive on Tuesday. The fresh cases took the State’s overall tally to 8,16,132. Twelve persons died of the infection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/daily-covid-19-count-drops-below-1000/article33449381.ece
30 December 2020||Bengaluru,||Gowda’s death a political murder: Kumaraswamy||JD(S) leader H.D. Kumaraswamy, who shared a personal bond with Karnataka Legislative Council Deputy Chairperson S.L. Dharme Gowda, termed his death by suspected suicide “a political murder” by the “selfish, cut throat” politics of the State, and called for an introspection. “He was a very sensitive man, who was deeply hurt by what happened in the Legislative Council recently. He felt humiliated and carried a guilt for no fault of his for the deterioration of the session’s conduct on that day. Such people deserve better. All of us, including me, need to introspect,” he said in a choked voice. “One party was keen on testing the secular credentials of former Prime Minister H.D. Deve Gowda and JD(S), while the other was keen on occupying the Council Chairman’s post and ended up achieving this today. On December 15, our party MLCs told me how despite his protestations, Mr. Dharme Gowda was pressured to occupy the presiding officer’s seat before the stopping of quorum bell by one party. While they almost forced him to sit in the chair, the other party members dragged him out. A sensitive man that he was, he felt humiliated and was very upset over it. All of them should introspect on their role at least now,” Mr. Kumaraswamy said, referring to the Congress and the BJP, without taking names. Mr. Kumaraswamy also revealed that on being informed by Mr. Dharme Gowda’s brother Bhoje Gowda how upset he was, he spoke to him for half an hour a week ago trying to counsel him. “I told him that he had done no wrong and that he was only a victim of circumstances. I advised him to not take it personally. He said he felt better after speaking to me. But the Council Chairman directing the formation of a legislative committee to probe into the pandemonium on Monday seems to have pushed him over the brink,” he said. Meanwhile, Mr. Deve Gowda recounted his personal relationship with the family that dated back to 1972, to the times of Mr. Dharme Gowda’s father Lakshmaiah, and said this was a “big personal blow to him in the fag end of his political life that had pained him deeply”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/gowdas-death-a-political-murder-kumaraswamy/article33449264.ece
30 December 2020||New Delhi,||‘Put development above politics’||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday said infrastructure development should be kept away from politics, alleging that the previous government had not shown the required seriousness and urgency to communicate with the States, resulting in delays in the implementation of projects. Mr. Modi was speaking after flagging off the first train to run on the 351 km New Bhaupur-New Khurja section (both in Uttar Pradesh) of the Eastern Dedicated Freight Corridor (EDFC). He also inaugurated the operation control centre for the EDFC at Prayagraj via videoconference. The section, built at a cost of Rs. 5,750 crore, covers the important industrial areas of Aligarh, Khurja, Firozabad and Agra. The entire eastern corridor is more than 1,800 km long and will run from Ludhiana in Punjab to Dankuni near Kolkata. The Prime Minister blamed the “work culture” of the previous government for the delays in the implementation of the freight corridor project that was approved in 2006. “Till 2014, not even one km of the track was laid. Even the money allotted for this was not used properly. After 2014, when the project was relooked at, the budget increased by 11 times or by more than Rs. 45,000 crore,” he said. After the formation of the NDA government in 2014, as a result of constant monitoring and meeting with the stakeholders, about 1,100 km of the work got completed in the a few months, he claimed. ‘It will reduce cost’ “Be it our farms, industries or markets, they are dependent on freight movement and the Railways have always played a huge role in this,” he said. Dedicated freight corridors were needed as currently passenger and freight trains run on the same track, leading to increase in the waiting period. “With these corridors, we can improve the punctuality of passenger trains. In addition, freight trains can run three times faster, and will be able to transport twice the amount of freight. Since freight trains will reach on time, this will bring down the transportation costs, leading to reduction in cost of various goods,” he said. Winning votes Mr. Modi said earlier the focus was just on increasing the number of trains to get votes and no investment was made on tracks. “A country’s infrastructure is not the ideology of any party, but the path of development. If political parties want to compete, they should compete on infra quality, speed and scale.” He also appealed to people to not damage infrastructure and property during protests. “We should remember that this infrastructure does not belong to any politician or a party, but to the country and its citizens.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/put-development-above-politics/article33449297.ece
30 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘No evidence that vaccines will be ineffective against variants’||There is no evidence that current vaccines will fail to protect against COVID-19 variants reported from the U.K. or South Africa, Principal Scientific Adviser K. Vijay Raghavan said at a Health Ministry press conference on Tuesday. Stating that while most vaccines do target the spike protein, in which there are changes in the variants, Professor Raghavan noted that the vaccine also stimulated the immune system to produce a wide range of protective antibodies and the mutations were not sufficient to make the vaccine ineffective. He added that the increased transmissibility of the U.K. variant was a matter of concern and advocated that public health measures be scrupulously followed. “A vaccine should be available soon but we have to reduce transmission through physical distancing and amplifying testing, tracking and isolating,” he said. Also addressing the press, Director-General of the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) Balram Bhargava cautioned against the non-judicious use of unestablished therapies to fight the virus which he said would put pressure on the virus to mutate more. “It’s important that we do not put too much immune pressure on virus. We have to maintain judicious use of therapies which are going to benefit. If benefit isn’t established, we shouldn’t use those therapies otherwise it will put pressure on virus and it will tend to mutate more,” Dr. Bhargava said. Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said that prior to news of the U.K. variant, India had done genome sequencing of nearly 5,000 samples. This number will now increase significantly with 10 government labs starting genome sequencing of the SARS-CoV-2 variant, he noted. “An important development is the establishment of INSACOG, a consortium of 10 government labs across the country to do genome sequencing of COVID-19 as well as any variant of that virus. These labs belong to ICMR, BioTech India, CSIR and Health Ministry,” Mr. Bhushan said. He added that the active COVID cases in the country now stand at fewer than 2.7 lakh. “This number along with death rate is on the decline and positivity rate in the country during the last week stood at only 2.25%. Daily new COVID cases are less than 17,000 after 6 months now, while daily deaths are also less than 300 after 6 months. 55% deaths are found to have occurred in those above 60 years and 70% of the deaths have occurred in males,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-evidence-that-vaccines-will-be-ineffective-against-variants/article33449306.ece
30 December 2020||HYDERABAD,||INCOIS launches ‘Digital Ocean’||Union Minister for Science and Technology Harsh Vardhan launched the ‘Digital Ocean’ platform of Indian National Centre for Oceanic Information Services (INCOIS) here as a one stop-solution for all data related needs of a wide range of users, including research institutions, operational agencies, strategic users, academic community, maritime industry, and the public. “Digital Ocean (www.do.incois.gov.in) is expected to bring a sea-change in how the oceanographic data is served for a better understanding of oceans surrounding us. It will play a central role in sustainable management of our oceans and expanding our ‘Blue Economy’ initiatives,” informed INCOIS Director T. Srinivasa Kumar. Dr. Harshvardhan virtually unveiled the web platform in the presence of secretary of Ministry of Earth Science M. Rajeevan, Joint Secretary Vipin Chandra and others from New Delhi. This first of its kind platform for ocean data management has a set of applications that present heterogeneous oceanographic data with geospatial technology. “It will facilitate an online interactive web-based environment for data integration, 3D and 4D data visualization, data analysis to assess the evolution of oceanographic features obtained from multiple sources like on site monitoring devices, remote sensing and model data,” said the Director. INCOIS provides ocean information and advisory services to various stakeholders in the country, including Potential Fishing Zone (PFZ) advisories, Ocean State Forecast (OSF), high wave alerts, tsunami early warnings, storm surge and oil-spill advisories, among others, using state-of-the-art technologies and tools to get real time information on oceanographic and marine meteorological data. The institute has been serving as the National Argo Data Centre and Regional Argo Data Centre of the International Argo Programme, he added, in a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/incois-launches-digital-ocean/article33449269.ece
30 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Pakistan is a pawn in Chinese policy: IAF chief||Pakistan had increasingly become a pawn in Chinese’s policy, and under an increasing China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC)-related debt trap, further military dependencies in the future would happen, according to Chief of the Air Staff Air Chief Marshal (ACM) R.K.S. Bhadauria. “Our most important national security challenge is firstly to understand China, their possible game plan and the deepening and evolving Sino-Pakistan relationship. We are all well aware that China’s aspirations are on the global front and regional domination is a part to global leadership that they aspire,” he said speaking at a webinar by the Vivekananda International Foundation (VIF) on Tuesday. The U.S.’s exit from Afghanistan had opened increased options for China in the region, both direct and through Pakistan, allowing it a possible entry into Central Asia that it had been eyeing for some time now, he stated. To a question on the role played by IAF in the ongoing standoff in Eastern Ladakh, he said China had undertaken heavy deployment. “Whatever actions we had taken, some very serious and robust actions, it has had its result and we can see that they have stopped in their tracks and they have continued to remain there.” Any Sino-Indian conflict was not good for China at the global front, he asserted. “If the Chinese aspirations are global, then it does not fit in their grand plans, and, therefore, what is the Chinese objective of their actions in Eastern Ladakh?, he said. Listing out a series of likely causes of the Chinese actions in Eastern Ladakh, he said that it could also be a totally “military dominated misadventure” that escalated, given the rapid decrease in trust deficit post COVID-19, the Chinese state position and possibly a loss of faith in the action later continued to escalate. Talking of the borders, ACM Bhadauria said that on the northern borders, the Himalayan barrier, which separated South Asia with China, has been “literally flattened” by the massive infrastructure development and the time it took to travel large distances had rapidly shrunk. The western border had become active the day Pakistan was created, he stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pakistan-is-a-pawn-in-chinese-policy-iaf-chief/article33449294.ece
30 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Airlines still following fare bands||More than six months after the government barred airlines from pricing their passenger seats and mandated them to follow fare bands fixed by it as a temporary measure during COVID-19, there is no sign of a return to free market pricing for domestic carriers yet. “We will monitor the situation, and then decide whether they will stay or not. Everyone is happy,” Minister of State for Civil Aviation Hardeep Puri said at a press conference on Tuesday. The government directive, issued on May 21 ahead of the resumption of domestic flights following a two-month ban after the nationwide lockdown, has been extended twice and is in effect till February 24. It requires airlines to sell air tickets within a re-determined minimum and maximum airfare prescribed by the government on the basis of flight duration. Airlines with deep pockets like IndiGo, and those with strong promoters like Vistara, have publicly criticised the move as one that is antithetical to the interest of passengers because airlines can’t offer fares lower than the floor pricing in order to entice people to fly. It is a widely held view within the industry that the move is meant to support airlines with weak financials like SpiceJet, GoAir and Air India, which would have perished when demand plummeted after the lockdown due to COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/airlines-still-flying-with-fare-bands/article33449300.ece
30 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Rajini decision leaves BJP jolted in T.N.||The announcement by actor Rajinikanth on Tuesday that he would not be launching a political party took many by surprise, with the BJP hoping that even if not through a formal political party, the superstar would throw his influence behind the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) in Tamil Nadu ahead of the Assembly poll early next year. Speaking to The Hindu , C.T. Ravi, the BJP’s national general secretary in charge of Tamil Nadu, said Mr. Rajinikanth’s decision was his private affair but that the NDA was still hoping for a declaration of support from the latter. ‘Support to NDA’ “As to why Rajinikanth ji decided not to float his own political party, is a personal decision by him, but, I very much hope and expect that in the interest of the country and Tamil Nadu he will extend support to the NDA. As a member of the BJP it is my hope that his considerable influence is with us,” Mr. Ravi said. Mr. Rajinikanth had, a few weeks ago, announced that he would be announcing the launch of a political party on December 31. But citing his sudden hospitalisation last week following a health scare and the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, the actor released a statement that he had decided to go back on that decision. The BJP had hoped that the charismatic actor would add his considerable popularity to its efforts while many in the rival camps questioned his political moorings and ideological leanings. The party has tied up with the ruling AIADMK for the upcoming Assembly poll, and while it hasn’t on its own managed much traction on the ground, it was counting on Mr. Rajinikanth’s massive fan following to introduce a third element in the largely bipolar polity of the State. That hope is now over.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rajini-decision-leaves-bjp-jolted-in-tn/article33449289.ece
30 December 2020||December 30 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Security forces now have the upper hand’||With the past year being extremely challenging for the security forces in Kashmir after the decision to end J&K’s special status, Inspector General of Police, Kashmir, Vijay Kumar points to a paradigm shift in the approach to tackling which has paid dividends on the ground  The beginning of year 2020 saw very few operations and then a major push against militants in J&K? From zero kills in December 2019, we managed to turn it into 14 kills in January this year. The killing of chief of Jaish-e-Muhammad Qari Yasir, Hizbul Mujahideen commander Hamad Khan and arrest of Hizb’s Naveed Babu along with Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) Devender Singh was the result of a new strategy. Gathering human intelligence at district level was reoriented, and from March onwards, technical intelligence was given a push. Intra-police and inter-security forces healthy competition also helped. We also strategically focused on killings of top commanders, like Reyaz Naikoo, Qari Yasir, Haider and Burhan Koka within four months. I appreciate the Army's role in conducting search operations on each intelligence input, sometimes twice a day. Moreover, terrorists were not allowed to regroup and camp in Srinagar, where 20 terrorists were killed in nine encounters. Over 200 terrorists were killed this year. Were most militants killed in Kashmir self-trained or had they crossed over to PoK or Pakistan for arms training? Foreign terrorists are mostly Pakistan-trained. Over 85% local terrorists are trained locally. Most of them aren’t battle hardened and rather high on motivation,But their hiding capabilities amongst population is high. Though there were cases where youths went to Pakistan on visa in 2017 and 2018. Of 50 such terrorists, 25 were killed in encounters, 9 arrested and rest are still on the run. The killing of Naikoo reduced recruitment. However, availability of arms and radicalisation by several Pakistan-based portals are factors to be monitored. Are civilian houses where militants take shelter blown up by explosives during encounters? Terrorists have advantage in residential areas compared to orchards and jungles. The in-going troops mostly are not aware of the houses because terrorists can hide in any random house. This puts the life of our troops at extreme risk. Explosives are used to soften the target houses and expose vulnerable areas to target terrorists. In most cases, houses have caught fire due to explosives carried by terrorists. Also, several measures have been put in place during anti-terrorist operations to win the hearts and minds of the public, like maintaining sanctity of religious places and use of less-lethal weapons during law and order situations. For e.g., in south Kashmir's Meej area in Pampore on June 18, three terrorists of the LeT were killed without entering into a mosque. Over a dozen local terrorists were made to surrender during live encounters. It has been a gamechanger. The police have prior details of terrorists trapped in encounters and the families are allowed to make appeals. Parents have shown great trust in the police. But recruitment of militants continues? It remains a serious concern. Compared to 152 terrorists killed in 2019, 206 were killed in 2020, as 140 and 167 youths were recruited. Of 167 recruits, 73 were killed, 46 arrested and 48 are active. So the situation isn’t alarming. These youth were radicalised by Pakistani agencies through social media and blogs. Parental control over children has diminished in Kashmir and peer pressure has increased. The police have been identifying potential and radicalised youths. More than three dozen youths returned to normal life. Other stake holders like education, welfare, sports and information departments have to work in this direction. A comprehensive surrender policy is also needed. Are militants also changing tack? Terrorists have changed their modus operandi this year and adopted guerrilla warfare, hit-and-run tactics. Over two dozen colleagues were killed in over a dozen such attacks. Due to tactical changes, many such attacks were converted into encounters and forces managed to kill the attackers. Frequent grenade throwing also remains a reality. It's not a new trend though. Compared to 132 persons injured in such attacks in 2018, 118 in 2019, we just saw 69 such injuries in 2020. This year, militants were not allowed burial in their ancestral graveyards. After COVID-19 pandemic in March, burial of militants saw hundreds of people participating in Kulgam and Sopore. Either we had to stop anti-terrorist operation temporarily or not hand over bodies of terrorists to the families. We opted for the second option. Initially, miscreants and anti-social elements tried to spread false propaganda and terrorists abducted some policemen and even killed one policeman but we didn’t lose our patience. People realised our intention and supported us. So far, 158 terrorists have been buried at isolated locations in Baramulla, Ganderbal and Handwara in presence of magistrates and families. We have not only stopped spreading of COVID infections but also stopped glamourising terrorists and potential law and order problems. This action is historical. Have many policemen been recruited by militants? In a force of more than one lakh personnel, six or seven such instances is negligible. This year, one policeman deserted and was arrested. The J&K policemen are the most loyal in this country. Even if someone has any connections, the supervisory officer keeps him on surveillance and doesn’t post him at sensitive assignment. Many a times, such connections convert into anti-terrorist operations in our favour. Is the tough phase of militancy over? The tough phase of militancy in Kashmir is not over till terrorists are there on the ground. As far as domination and the upper hand of security forces is concerned, yes, we have been successful. As of now, several terrorist outfits are headless. The security forces are more capable of handling the challenges at hand. This year saw restrictions on certain kinds of reportage, especially of banned organisations... Since these associations have been declared banned, any coverage of their statements would attract penal action under UAPA. However, the press can report any news relating to the banned associations in case the reporting is confined to carrying news only and not to instigate the public.  Gathering human intelligence at district level was reoriented in a new strategy||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/security-forces-now-have-the-upper-hand/article33449311.ece
30 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Protests mount over suicide by couple at Neyyattinkara||Protests continued to mount over the suicide of a couple in Neyyattinkara even as the government offered on Tuesday to support their children. The deaths of Rajan, 47, and his wife Ambili, 36, of Pongil in Nellimoodu during their attempt to thwart an attempt to evict the family from their house sparked protests in various parts of the State. The plight of their sons, Rahul and Renjith, prompted Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan to take up the issue. Terming the incident unfortunate, Mr. Vijayan said during his Kerala Paryadanam programme in Thrissur that directions had been issued to provide them a house and bear their educational expenses. The government will ensure their protection, he added. The handling of the case by the Neyyattinkara police also came under intense scrutiny with various quarters faulting them for refusing to back down after Rajan threatened to commit suicide after dousing themselves in petrol. State Police Chief Loknath Behera instituted an inquiry and tasked District Police Chief (Thiruvananthapuram Rural) B. Asokan with the probe. Inhumane stance Leader of Opposition Ramesh Chennithala sought to put the blame for the couple’s death squarely on the government and the police. The police displayed an inhumane stance by refusing to delay the process despite being informed by the family that the eviction proceedings were likely to be stayed by the High Court. He demanded that the officials responsible for the incident be charged for murder. Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president Mullappally Ramachandran and Bharatiya Janata Party president K. Surendran also demanded stringent action in the issue. MLAs K.S. Sabarinadhan, K. Ansalan, and M. Vincent were among those who visited the children at their house. Kerala State Human Rights Commission has also directed the District Police Chief (Thiruvananthapuram Rural) to conduct a probe into the alleged lapses of the local police officials and submit his investigation report within four weeks. In his order, commission president Antony Dominic said the police officers who dealt with such situations must strive to prevent people with hurt pride from resorting to such extreme measures, even while being constrained with their responsibility to implement court orders. The directions were issued on the basis of a complaint submitted by human rights activist Aswathy Jwala.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/protests-over-couples-suicide-at-neyyattinkara/article33449276.ece
30 December 2020||New Delhi,||‘Written assurances’ on MSP have no meaning: Congress||Ahead of the next round of talks between the Union government and the farmer unions, the Congress on Tuesday said the Centre’s “written assurances” to farmers on the minimum support price (MSP) had no meaning unless they were backed by statutory provisions. The amendments proposed by the government to the farm laws must be passed in Parliament by bringing in fresh Bill, it said. Addressing a joint press conference with former Union Minister Rajeev Shukla, Rajasthan Congress chief Govind Singh Dostara said farmers in his State were waiting for the outcome of Wednesday’s meeting as many of them planned to march to Delhi if issues remained unresolved. Mr. Shukla, who was a junior Minister in the UPA government, said: “Once the government brings in new amendments, the earlier version of the Bill will stand withdrawn.” ‘Government’s trick’ “The government’s trick is that they give all assurances verbally. They are willing to give a written assurance at the level of the government but it means nothing. Tomorrow, another government can change it,” he said. “... If the government is sympathetic to farmers, they should accept their suggestions and should repeal the laws and bring another Bill in Parliament,” he added. There was an attempt to “malign” the farmers’ agitation instead of addressing their concerns. “If you don’t even admit that there is something wrong, how can you rectify your problems,” he asked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/written-assurances-on-msp-have-no-meaning-congress/article33449285.ece
30 December 2020||CHENNAI,||Mutated virus does not cause more fatalities: report||Preliminary results from a cohort study found no statistically significant difference in hospitalisation and 28-day case fatality between cases with the new variant (VOC 201212/01) and wild-type comparator cases. There was also no significant difference in the likelihood of reinfection between variant cases and the comparator group, says a second technical briefing report by the Public Health England. The preliminary assessment of outcomes of hospitalisation and case fatality caused by the new variant was performed by using a matched cohort study. In this, 1,769 genome sequenced variant cases were matched with the same number of cases which are distinctly different from the new variant. The median age of variant cases was 36 years and 35 for the wild-type cases. Over 51% of both the variant cases wild-type comparator cases were female. Fewer variant cases (16 cases) were admitted to hospital compared to wild-type comparator cases (26 cases) but the difference is not significant, the report says. For case fatality assessment, 1,340 people belonging to each group, who have completed 28 days since the specimen date, were compared. The study found that 12 of 1,340 (0.89%) people infected with the new variant died within 28 days compared with 10 of 1,360 (0.73%) people infected with virus not belonging to the new variant. The difference in case fatality between the two groups is “not significant,” the report says. Scientists also studied whether the new variant caused increased reinfection rates. A possible case of reinfection was considered if a PCR test was positive before 90 days of a previous infection with SARS-COV-2 virus. While only two reinfections were caused by the new variant, there were three reinfections in the other group.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mutated-virus-does-not-cause-more-fatalities-report/article33449315.ece
30 December 2020||KOTTAYAM,||Joseph’s remarks add fuel to speculation of realignment||Adding fuel to speculation of yet another political realignment, Kerala Congress leader P.J. Joseph on Tuesday expressed his willingness to give the Pala Assembly seat to Mani C. Kappan, MLA, of the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), a constituent of the Left Democratic Front (LDF). Talking to mediapersons, Mr. Joseph hoped that Mr.Kappan would contest as the UDF candidate from the seat in the coming Assembly polls. “We have decided to hand over that seat. My assessment is that Mr.Kappan will be contesting for the UDF in the end,” he said. The statement of Mr. Joseph assumes significance particularly in view of the dispute between the NCP and the Kerala Congress (M) faction led by Jose K. Mani following the latter’s entry into the LDF. Though the dispute pertains to issues over seat-sharing during the recent local body polls, at the core of the episode is the claim raised by both parties over the Pala Assembly seat. In a statement here on Tuesday, Mr. Kappan asserted his allegiance to the LDF and held that he had no idea whatsoever about the remarks made by Mr. Joseph. “P.J. Joseph is a family friend of mine,” he said. The Congress, meanwhile, appeared non-committal to Mr. Joseph’s proposal and said the UDF had not entrusted anyone to announce its candidate in Pala. It, however, did not rule out reports of the coalition attempting to take advantage of the situation and reaching out to disgruntled leaders within the NCP. Following reports that Mr.Mani had demanded the Pala seat, Mr. Kappan had said there was no question of giving up the seat. Mr. Kappan, who had unsuccessfully contested thrice against K.M. Mani, rode on his popularity and the factional fight within the KC(M) to emerge victorious during the byelection last year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/josephs-remarks-add-fuel-to-speculation-of-realignment/article33449572.ece
30 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Special train services extended||Hinting at further delay in restoring normal train services in the railway network, Railways have extended fully reserved special trains, including the four daily specials to and from Mysuru and Bengaluru. The trains include weekly and bi-weekly festival special trains. Some of the bi-weekly festival special trains were shifted to Kochuveli. Daily specials Train 06316 Kochuveli-Mysuru Daily Festival Special, has been extended to run till January 31 and Train 06315 Mysuru-Kochuveli Daily Festival Special till February 1, according to the Railways. Train 06526 KSR Bengaluru-Kanyakumari daily festival special has been extended till January 31 and train 06525 Kanyakumari-KSR Bengaluru daily festival special till February 2. Weekly festival special Train 02646 Kochuveli-Indore weekly has been extended to run on Saturdays and Train 02645 Indore-Kochuveli Weekly Festival Special has been extended to run on Mondays. Train 06070 Tirunelveli-Bilaspur Weekly Festival Special, has been extended to run on Sundays-January 3 10, 17, 24 and 31, and Train 06069 Bilaspur-Tirunelveli Weekly Festival Special, has been extended to run on Tuesdays. Train 09424 Gandhidham-Tirunelveli Weekly Festival Special, has been extended to run on Mondays-January 4, 11, 18 and 25, and Train 09423 Tirunelveli-Gandhidham Weekly Festival Special, has been extended to run on Thursdays-January 7, 14, 21 and 28. Train 02877 Howrah-Ernakulam Junction Weekly Festival Special, has been extended to run on Saturdays- January 2, 9, 16, 23, 30, February 6, 13, 20, 27, March 6, 13, 20 and 27. Train 02878 Ernakulam Junction-Howrah Weekly Festival Special, has been extended to run on Mondays. Train 06352 Nagercoil Junction-Mumbai CSMT Bi-weekly Festival Special, has been extended to run on Sundays and Thursdays. Train 06351 Mumbai CSMT-Nagercoil Junction Bi-weekly has been extended to run on Mondays and Fridays. Train 06338 Ernakulam-Okha bi-weekly has been extended to run on Fridays and Wednesdays. Okha-Ernakulam Bi-weekly (06337) has been extended to run on Mondays and Saturdays.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/special-train-services-extended/article33449573.ece
30 December 2020||Srinagar,||Will not raise white flag: Mehbooba||Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) president Mehbooba Mufti on Tuesday said the PDP-BJP alliance fell apart in 2018 “because she refused to accept the demands that slain militants’ bodies would not be handed over to the families and opposed a crackdown on the Jamaat-e-Islami (JeI). “The alliance fell apart after I was told by the BJP to accept a set of demands, including a move to stop handing over the militants’ bodies to their families for the last rites and launch a crackdown against the JeI across Kashmir,” the former Chief Minister told party workers in Srinagar. The statement comes just days after Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s remarks that the PDP’s refusal to hold District Development Council (DDC) polls resulted in the BJP’s decision to end the coalition with the PDP. She said her father, the late Mufti Muhammad Sayeed, joined hands with the BJP only to “cage a ‘jinn’ in a bottle” and “stop it from touching Article 370”. She alleged that the BJP-led regime was “choking Kashmir’s economy and tarnishing the J&K’s constitution”. “We will fight for our rights. We are not the ones who would raise white flags. No matter how far BJP goes in choking Kashmir economy and making us dependent on all fronts, we will not bow,” she stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/will-not-raise-white-flag-mehbooba/article33449313.ece
30 December 2020||New Delhi,||NIA files chargesheet against five NSCN (IM) members||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) filed a chargesheet against five NSCN (IM) members for alleged extortion and criminal intimidation of various companies undertaking road construction projects in Manipur. The Isaak Muivah faction of the National Socialist Council of Nagaland (IM), one of the largest Naga groups, signed a framework agreement on August 3, 2015, to end the decades-old Naga issue and is currently engaged in negotiation with the Intelligence Bureau (IB). The NIA filed the chargesheet in a Dimapur court in a case the agency registered on July 5 under various Sections of the IPC and the  Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. “The case relates to the recovery of Rs. 1,58,72,800 along with illegal arms, ammunition, explosives, and incriminating documents, from the residential premises of SS Col. Rayilung Nsarangbe of NSCN (IM) and his wife Ruth Chawang,” the NIA said in a statement. The agency said the investigation revealed well-organised extortion racket by the NSCN (IM) involving criminal intimidation of various companies undertaking road construction projects in Manipur. “The developmental funds of the government have been illegally diverted in an organised manner and collected by NSCN(IM) operatives through extortion by committing a terrorist act punishable under UA(P) Act.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nia-files-chargesheet-against-five-nscn-im-members/article33449290.ece
30 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Ban on U.K. flights may be extended, says Hardeep Puri||There could be a short extension of the ban on flights from the U.K. until the government gets a “fuller picture” of the new strain confirmed from as many as six passengers who arrived in India last week, Minister of State for Civil Aviation Hardeep Puri said on Tuesday. “Once we have genome sequencing completed and a fuller extent of the picture, that will give us the confidence to open up flights again,” Mr. Puri said at a press conference. The ban on Indian and British airlines providing services to the U.K. was imposed last week and is in force till December 31. On whether there would be a similar ban on flights from other countries such as South Africa where the strain has been confirmed, the Minister said the government was “monitoring” the situation. Meanwhile, the Civil Aviation Ministry is working with the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare to develop a safe corridor for the transportation of COVID-19 vaccines once they were ready, said Secretary of the Ministry Civil Aviation P.S. Kharola. “The movement of vaccines will be multi-modal. Airlines and airports have been alerted and we are working with the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare on maintaining the vitality of the vaccine through temperature regulation. Stakeholders have to ensure that the integrity of the entire cold chain from the place of manufacture to the place of consumption,” the official stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ban-on-uk-flights-may-be-extended-says-hardeep-puri/article33449308.ece
30 December 2020||Kolkata,||Lotus will bloom in my family: Suvendu||Bharatiya Janata Party leader Suvendu Adhikari on Tuesday dropped clear hints that his father, Sisir Adhikari, and brother, Dibyendu Adhikari, would join the saffron party soon. Both of them are sitting Lok Sabha members of the Trinamool Congress from Purba Medinipur district of West Bengal. Mr. Suvendu Adhikari, a former Minister in the State government, jumped to the BJP on December 19. Responding to a jibe by Trinamool MP Abhishek Banerjee, Mr. Adhikari, who was addressing a public rally at Khardah in North 24 Parganas, said, “There is still a lot of time to come, Ram Navami has not been celebrated and lotus will certainly bloom in my family. I want to assure you that I will see to it that lotus blooms in your family at 30 B Harish Chatterjee Street.” The BJP leader also targeted political strategist Prashant Kishor, referring to a recent interview. “He (Mr. Kishor) claimed that 30% of the voters are with the Trinamool and the contest is for only 70% the votes. Who are those 30% you will have to spell it loud and clear and what about the remaining 70%, what will they do?” Mr. Adhikari said, exhorting his supporters to chant Jai Shri Ram . Mr. Adhikari said people in the Trinamool Congress were upset that he did not set up a regional party. “I did not form a regional party because I do want to split 2% to 5% votes. I am here to defeat you.” The BJP leader attacked Mr. Banerjee, calling him an “extortionist nephew”. Mr. Banerjee is the nephew of West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee. He asked if Mr. Banerjee, who has been accusing him of being involved in the Narada scam, would say the same about Trinamool leader Sougata Roy who is also purportedly seen in the same sting operation video. The Narada sting videos that were aired in 2016 showed a number of Trinamool Congress leaders allegedly taking cash on camera. Three of the leaders, including Mr. Adhikari, have since joined the BJP. In a significant development, the State Urban Development Department on Tuesday removed Soumendu Adhikari, another member of Adhikari family from the post of chairman of Kanthi municipality.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/family-members-could-join-bjp-hints-suvendu/article33449541.ece
30 December 2020||KOCHI,||Church dispute: Modi meets members of Jacobite delegation||A high-level delegation from the Jacobite Syrian Christian Church apprised Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday about the “gross denial of justice and trampling of democratic rights” of their members “Parishioners belonging to the Jacobite faction are being alienated from their own churches by members of the rival Orthodox faction,” said Kuriakose Mor Theophilos Metropolitan, spokesman of the Jacobite Church, who was part of the delegation. “Mr Modi gave a patient hearing to us and we gave a representation explaining our grievances. He assured us that he would go through it and would come back to us. We explained to him the gravity of the situation and how we are even unable to bury bodies of our dear ones in cemeteries of churches that we built, all under the garb of a court order. These churches were built over centuries by our forefathers, using hard-earned money. The delegation further requested a piece of legislation, something like Worship Act, to regain the right to worship in churches that we built. This is because those who own churches are being forced to vacate them,” the spokesman said. The delegates, who included Metropolitan of Kochi Diocese Joseph Mor Gregorios and Metropolitan of Kottayam Diocese Thomas Mor Themotheos further apprised the Prime Minister of the denial of religious freedom, freedom of worship and justice to members of the church, since the 'dissident group which separated from the church is creating issues by misusing the court verdict of 2017'. “'The biggest duty of humans is to care for their fellow beings. Brotherhood is integral to our culture and hatred should be avoided,” opined the Prime Minister. Union Minister of State for External Affairs V. Muraleedharan and Mizoram Governor P. S. Sreedharan Pillai too were present at the meeting with Mr Modi. Mr. Modi had held discussions with representatives of the Orthodox Syrian Christian Church on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/church-dispute-modi-meets-members-of-jacobite-delegation/article33449274.ece
30 December 2020||HYDERABAD,||Salary hike, increase in retirement age for govt. staff||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has decided to enhance the salaries and retirement age of all categories of State government employees besides commencement of filling up vacancies in all departments as a New Year gift. The salary hike will apply to about 9.37 lakh employees. A three-member committee headed by Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar will study the recommendations of the Pay Revision Commission for the purpose of fixing the quantum of hike, age of retirement and service rules. A release of CMO said the hike will apply to regular staff, grant-in-aid, workcharged, daily wage, full-time contingent, part-time contingent, contract, outsourcing and Society for Elimination of Rural Poverty employees, home guards, Anganwadi and ASHA workers, Vidya volunteers, pensioners and those getting honorarium. Even low paid workers in the Road Transport Corporation will also get higher salaries. If needed, the financial burden on RTC will be borne by the State government. Mr. Rao also announced that all service issues concerning employees will be addressed comprehensively by February. Hike in retirement age apart, the government will resolve promotions and take up transfers where required, simplification of service rules and compassionate appointments. It will be ensured that the staff was handed over all their retirement benefits on the last day of their service. He added that the recruitment in government service will start from February after identifying vacancies in all departments. The committee of Somesh Kumar which comprises principal secretaries K. Ramakrishna Rao (Finance) and Rajat Kumar (Irrigation) as members will hold talks with service associations to finalise the roadmap on all the issues. The committee will peruse the PRC report in the first week of January and talk to the service associations in the second week. The committee will also look into how to proceed with promotions and overcome legal hurdles in staff matters caused by zonal system. Thereafter, the Cabinet will take a final decision, Mr. Rao said. He recalled that the government hiked the salaries of staff shortly after formation of Telangana State with a 42 % fitment in recognition of their contribution in Statehood movement. Now was the time for another hike. Within the financial limitations of the government, it was decided to hike the salaries what little was possible. The government was committed to the election promise of TRS to enhance the retirement age. Mr. Rao hoped that the staff was relieved of all its service issues which plagued them in combined State by March. He instructed officials to constitute Departmental Promotion Committees to finalise promotions. Compassionate appointments in all departments should be completed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/salary-hike-higher-retirement-age-for-govt-staff-in-telangana/article33449478.ece
30 December 2020||Bengaluru,||Special legislature panel to conduct probe||Legislative Council Chairman K. Prathapchandra Shetty is on Monday learnt to have directed the formation of a special legislature committee, led by senior JD(S) MLC Maritibbe Gowda, to probe into the pandemonium in the House on December 15. The formation of the committee follows Council Secretary K.R. Mahalakshmi’s report to the Chairman, submitted three days ago, that said S.L. Dharme Gowda, Deputy Chairman of the Council, “spontaneously” occupied the chair to conduct the session, which witnessed Mr. Dharme Gowda being pulled from the Chairman’s seat over a row related to the no-confidence motion sought to be moved against the Council chairman. The Secretary, said in her report, that she had informed the rules of the House to the Deputy Chairman. But Mr. Dharme Gowda occupied the chair and started conducting the business, sources said. Mr. Shetty was reportedly locked out of the House during the pandemonium. Congress members had to force open the door of the House, after which the Chairman walked in and adjourned the House sine die, a few minutes later. Mr. Dharme Gowda had later expressed hurt at how he was pulled around when occupying the chair. “Usually such matters are referred to the Committee on Ethics, which is led by the Deputy Chairman of the Council. But since the Deputy Chairman himself was under the lens, the Chairman directed the formation of an all-party special legislature committee composed of senior members of the Council, based on precedence,” said a senior MLC, who did not wish to be named. Following the ruckus in the Council, Mr. Shetty had issued a show-cause notice to Ms. Mahalakshmi asking for a detailed report on the events in the House on December 15, which led to sine die adjournment. Meanwhile, Mr. Shetty speaking to The Hindu , confirmed that the Secretary had submitted her report to him. Mr. Shetty said that Ms. Mahalakshmi in her response said the Deputy Chairman suddenly occupied the Chairman’s seat. “This was unexpected. Even when I was approaching the seat to hand over the House rules book, he was engaged in getting files from his PA. I kept the rules book on his table and came back. By then B.K. Hariprasad (Congress) rushed to the chair saying the bell was still ringing and that the Deputy Chairman’s actions were against parliamentary procedures. Then, Y.A. Narayanaswamy (BJP) replied that there was a no-confidence motion against the Chairman. Following this, a ruckus erupted,” she said in her report. Ms. Mahalakshmi said she had not committed any mistake on her part in conducting the session and “all of a sudden developments happened in the House” wherein members indulged in pushing each other. In his condolence message, Mr. Shetty expressed shock over the sudden demise of Mr. Dharme Gowda, who had worked for long in the field of cooperation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/special-legislature-panel-to-conduct-probe/article33449271.ece
30 December 2020||Gurugram,||Centre must show flexible approach: Hooda||Rajya Sabha MP Deepender Singh Hooda on Tuesday said the Union government must show flexible approach and open mind in its meeting with the farmers on Wednesday to accept their demands. Speaking to the protesting farmers at Kittlana toll plaza holding indefinite dharna, Mr. Hooda said the farmers were on the streets for 34 days in the bitter cold, but the rulers were resting in their heated rooms, indifferent to their sufferings. “They have forgotten that it is the farmers and farm labourers who have elevated them to the position of power,” he said. Mr. Hooda advised the government that they still had the time to recover.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centre-must-show-flexible-approach-hooda/article33449864.ece
30 December 2020||HYDERABAD,||‘Give fruit bearing saplings to houses’||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has asked officials to supply saplings of curry leaves plant and fruit bearing plants to houses in villages under Palle Pragathi programme. Reviewing the implementation of the programme, he asked officials to give top priority to improve greenbelt in villages. Apart from Rs. five lakh allotted to each village for creation of natural forest in villages and availability of National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme funds at their disposal, the government had earmarked 10 % of budget of gram panchayats for green belt improvement. The money should be used for the dedicated purpose, he noted. The Chief Minister recalled that the government wanted clean and green villages through the programme and the targets were already achieved. The sanitation drive and increasing greenery in villages should, however, continue. The government had decided to set up common dumping yards in all villages. Land was identified for the purpose in 12,734 villages and works had commenced. Construction at some other places will begin soon, he said and added that he expected cremation grounds to come into use in all villages in two or three months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/curry-leaves-fruit-bearing-saplings-to-rural-houses/article33449886.ece
30 December 2020||Srinagar,||Encounter on between militants, security forces||An encounter between trapped militants and security forces started on the outskirts of Srinagar on Tuesday evening during a search operation. An official said two militants were said to be trapped at the encounter site at Hokarsar in the Lawaypora area here. “The militants were trapped during a search operation. The exchange of fire is on. Security forces are closing in on the spot where militants are hiding,” the police said. The operation is carried out by a joint team of the police, the Army’s 02 Rashtriya Rifles and the CRPF. Police sources said there was a law and order issue during the operation, as some youth started throwing stones. However, the police have not officially confirmed it. Reinforcements have been rushed to the site to stop militants from escaping.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/encounter-on-between-militants-security-forces/article33449309.ece
30 December 2020||December 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Centre, farmers to resume talks today||Accepting the invitation for the 2 p.m. meeting, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha said, “We remind you that we are coming to this dialogue on the following agenda given in our previous letter and in the order given below.” It then listed “Modalities to be adopted to repeal” three contentious agricultural reform laws as the first agenda point. “A ‘logical solution to the relevant issues’ would require that our dialogue run according to this agenda,” said the email, citing Agriculture Secretary Sanjay Agarwal’s invitation letter, which had said the Centre was committed to a logical solution. With tens of thousands of farmers now on their 34th straight day of protest on the borders of Delhi, the Centre has been urging the agitation’s leaders to return to the negotiation table through a series of letters this week. “It is a good thing that the talks will resume. That itself is progress. Let us see what further progress can be made now,” said a senior Agriculture Ministry official. Krantikari Kisan Union president Darshan Pal, a senior leader among the Punjab groups which began the struggle and are now massed at the Singhu border point between Delhi and Haryana, says the Centre must recognise the changes which have taken place on the ground in the last three weeks since talks were last held. “The protests have grown in number and spread well beyond Punjab and Haryana, so the government can no longer claim it is a one State issue,” he said, pointing to the five border points now entrenched with protestors, as well as the Patna and Thanjavur rallies. In the next two days, a tractor rally is expected to be held along the Kundli-Manesar Expressway. A boycott of Jio mobile services and prevention of toll collection in some States is also beginning to pinch. “Farmers are resolved to stand fast, and I don’t think the government is still in a mood to budge, so I don’t expect any breakthrough [on Wednesday],” said Mr. Pal. He said the Centre is willing to offer concessions on the parali or stubble burning issue, agreeing to remove farmers from the penal provisions of the Commission for Air Quality. However, without any agreement on the repeal of the three laws, farmers are not willing to accept concessions on any other issue, he said. “The overall strategy of the government seems to be, it still believes it can defeat us through propaganda attacks. Recently, it is the Prime Minister himself leading the charge,” said Swaraj India president Yogendra Yadav who is leading the protestors at Shahjahanpur on the Rajasthan-Haryana border on the road from Jaipur to Delhi. “The government engages in letter diplomacy to create a record on paper that it wants to negotiate, but it is defaming farmers everyday. How is that creating a conducive atmosphere?” he asked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centre-farmers-to-resume-talks-today/article33449266.ece
30 December 2020||December 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Rajini opts out of politics, cites health concerns||While being discharged, in view of his post-transplant status [he had undergone renal transplant in 2016], he was counselled to avoid any activity that increases the risk of contracting COVID-19. Though Mr. Rajinikanth’s political entry has been the subject of intense speculation for nearly three decades, he confirmed his intention of taking the plunge on December 31, 2017, in time for the Assembly election scheduled for 2021. He had then likened the election to fighting a battle. Job losses In a three-page statement on Twitter, the actor said the stoppage of the shooting of his film Annaththe earlier this month due to COVID-19 had led to a loss of several crores for the producer Sun Pictures and job losses for several others. “The reason for all this is my health condition. If I enter politics, I will have to meet thousands, even lakhs of people while campaigning. Even within a controlled environment, where only 120 people were at the shooting spot, people were affected by COVID-19 and I had to spend three days in the hospital. Even if a vaccine arrives, I am on immunosuppressant medicines and if some health complications arise while campaigning, it would put those with me on this political journey in emotional and financial turmoil and lead to untold misery for them,” he said. The actor said he was not willing to make scapegoats of people, who were willing to be a part of his political journey, just because he might be subject to criticism that he had made a promise of entering politics and had now backed out. Mr. Rajinikanth praised members of his Rajini Rasikar Mandram (RMM) for undertaking public service in the past three years with diligence and honesty. He said he will do whatever public service he could without entering politics.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rajini-opts-out-of-politics-cites-health-concerns/article33449267.ece
30 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Isaac appears before privileges committee||Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac on Tuesday appeared before the Privileges and Ethics Committee of the Legislative Assembly in connection with the alleged leakage of a CAG audit report on the Kerala Infrastructure and Investment Fund Board (KIIFB). Dr. Isaac appeared before the nine-member committee headed by A. Pradeep Kumar, after Speaker P. Sreeramakrishnan had referred a breach of privilege notice moved by the Congress legislator V.D. Satheesan against the Finance Minister. The Speaker’s decision came after Dr. Isaac appeared before him and gave explanation sought on the basis of the notice moved under Section 159 of the Kerala Legislative Assembly, Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business. Mr. Satheesan, who is chairman of the Public Accounts Committee (PAC), had moved a notice against Dr. Isaac stating that he had infringed on the rights of the House by prematurely disclosing the details of an audit report of the KIIFB for 2018-19 by the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) at press conference before it was tabled in the Assembly. It is the first time that a breach of privilege notice against a Minister was referred to the Privileges and Ethics Committee for scrutiny by the Speaker in the State. Talking to mediapersons after appearing before the committee, Dr. Isaac said he did not commit any breach of privilege. “It is the CAG who had violated the guidelines. As Minister, I had to oppose the CAG, a constitutional body”, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/isaac-appears-before-privileges-and-ethics-committee/article33449516.ece
30 December 2020||December 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Six U.K. returnees test positive for new variant||The three persons with the new variant in Bangalore include a mother and her six-year-old daughter, who have been admitted in Trauma and Emergency Care Centre (TECC) on Victoria Hospital campus, and are asymptomatic. The third person, a 33-year-old male, is moderately symptomatic and is being monitored in a private hospital on Bannerghatta Road in the city. Four more Highly placed sources in the State Health Department said four more UK returnees from Karnataka have tested positive for the new variant. “A total of seven returnees have been found to be carriers of the new strain in Karnataka. An official announcement of the additional four cases is likely to be made on Wednesday,” sources said. So far, the presence of the new U.K. variant has been reported by Denmark, Netherlands, Australia, Italy, Sweden, France, Spain, Switzerland, Germany, Canada, Japan, Lebanon and Singapore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/6-uk-returnees-test-positive-for-new-variant/article33449280.ece
30 December 2020||December 30 2020 00:00 IST,||JD(S) leader found dead on rail track||The report reportedly said Mr. Gowda occupied the Chair “spontaneously” and tried to conduct the House despite being reminded of the Rules of the House. Mr. Gowda, who participated in a slew of public events in Chikkamagaluru on Monday, left his farmhouse near Sakharayapatna in the evening in his private car with driver Dharmaraj. He enquired with one of his associates about train timings and around 6.15 p.m. he got off at Gunasagar, near a railway track, asking the driver to wait as he had some personal calls to make. The driver raised an alarm when he did not return after a long time and his mobile phone was switched off. The police found his body on the track late in the night. The police recovered a note from the spot. D. Ashok, Deputy Superintendent, Railway Police, refused to disclose its contents. The Railway Police filed an unnatural death report and launched a probe. BJP national general secretary and Chikkamagaluru MLA C.T. Ravi, who shared the dais with Mr. Gowda on Monday, said he had, in the note, expressed disappointment at the recent incidents in the Council.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/jds-leader-found-dead-on-rail-track/article33449281.ece
30 December 2020||Bhopal,||M.P. govt. takes ordinance route on anti-conversion Bill||The Madhya Pradesh Cabinet on Tuesday gave its nod to an ordinance on the Bill against religious conversion through fraudulent means, including those for the sake of marriage, that stipulates a jail term of up to 10 years, and sent it to Governor Anandiben Patel for approval. The Madhya Pradesh Freedom of Religion Bill, 2020, which also has a provision to impose a fine of Rs. 1 lakh for “conversion through marriage or other forcible means,” was approved by the Cabinet on Saturday. The government took the ordinance route as the Bill could not be tabled in the winter session of the Assembly, which has been deferred due to the COVID-19 situation, Home Minister Narottam Mishra said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mp-govt-takes-ordinance-route-on-anti-conversion-bill/article33449291.ece
30 December 2020||New Delhi,||93% relief flights by AI||The Air India Group operated 93% of the total 6,500 flights under Vande Bharat and ferried more than 10 lakh passengers, according to government data. The total passengers accounted for nearly 25% of the total stranded Indians brought back through various modes of transport, Union Minister of State for Civil Aviation Hardeep Puri said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/93-relief-flights-by-ai/article33449298.ece
30 December 2020||New Delhi,||Congress panel on 50th anniversary of 1971 war||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Monday announced a committee of senior leaders to plan and coordinate different activities to commemorate the anniversary of the Bangladesh Liberation War of 1971. 2021 will mark the 50th year of the 1971 war during which former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi was instrumental in the creation of Bangladesh. The 10-member committee will be headed by former Defence Minister A.K. Antony and will include Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh, former Maharashtra Chief Minister Prithviraj Chavan, former Lok Sabha Speaker Meira Kumar and Capt. Praveen Davar (retd.), who heads the party’s ex-servicemen cell. The Congress’s plan to showcase India’s military achievement under the leadership of Indira Gandhi is an attempt to take on the BJP’s nationalism plank. On December 16, when India celebrated Vijay Divas to commemorate its victory over Pakistan in the 1971 war, former party chief Rahul Gandhi took a dig at the Narendra Modi government. “This was a time when India’s neighbouring countries used to recognise the mettle of the Indian prime minister and feared violating the borders of our country,” Mr. Gandhi had tweeted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/congress-panel-on-50th-anniversary-of-1971-war/article33449796.ece
30 December 2020||HYDERABAD,||‘No harm in seeing impact of new farm laws’||Two days after Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao’s indication about the State government’s changing stand on the controversial new farm laws against which the farming community is agitating for over a month outside Delhi, Minister for Agriculture S. Niranjan Reddy said on Tuesday that there is no harm in examining their “impact” for a couple of seasons. He was speaking at the inauguration of Rythu Vedikas in Kalwakurthy area of Nagarkurnool district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-harm-in-seeing-impact-of-new-farm-laws/article33449884.ece
30 December 2020||JAIPUR,||Gehlot calls for farm loan waiver||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Tuesday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to take an urgent action for waiving off farmers’ loans from nationalised, commercial and land development banks coming under the Centre’s purview. He said the Modi government, which wrote off industrialist’s loans worth Rs. 7.95 lakh crore in its first tenure, had not provided any relief to farmers. In a letter addressed to Mr. Modi, Mr. Gehlot said the Congress government in Rajasthan had enforced a loan waiver of Rs. 14,000 crore, including Rs. 6,000 crore announced by the previous BJP regime, by which over 20.56 lakh farmers had benefited. Mr. Gehlot’ refuted Mr. Modi's recent charge that the farmers in the State were still waiting for debt relief. The Prime Minister had made the claim while addressing a farmers’ meeting in Madhya Pradesh virtually on December 18 to defend the three new agriculture sector laws and attacked the Congress for not fulfilling its promise for loan waiver.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/gehlot-calls-for-farm-loan-waiver/article33449660.ece
30 December 2020||ALAPPUZHA,||Duck deaths: samples to be sent to Bhopal||With ducks dying in large numbers in Kuttanad and upper Kuttanad, samples of affected birds will be sent to the National Institute of High-Security Animal Diseases (NIHSAD), Bhopal, for analysis. According to authorities, around 22,000 ducks died in the past week or so. Majority of the dead ducks belonged to two farmers in Thalavady and Pallippad grama panchayats. The decision to send samples to NIHSAD was taken after tests conducted at a virology lab in Thiruvananthapuram was inconclusive. Infections found Officials said that necropsy had found bacterial, fungal infections, ascites, and liver, heart and lung diseases in ducks. “The exact cause of mass deaths of ducks is yet to be ascertained. The initial tests came back inconclusive. Tests have revealed mixed infections in ducks. Bacterial/fungal infections or other diseases found in the dead ducks could be secondary infections caused as a result of a primary virus infection. Tests to be conducted at the lab in Bhopal will help identify the primary cause of deaths,” said an official with the Animal Husbandry Department. Santhosh Kumar, District Animal Husbandry Officer, said that they expected to receive the results from NIHSAD in a couple of days. Medicines ineffective “Medicines remain ineffective. But the disease is largely confined to two places and there are no signs of it being spread to more areas. At present, we cannot say it is a highly pathogenic strain. We will have to wait for results from Bhopal for any confirmation,” Dr. Santhosh Kumar said. On Monday, a team led by Priya P.M., associate professor, Department of Veterinary Microbiology, College of Veterinary and Animal Sciences, Mannuthy, visited Kuttanad and collected samples for testing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/duck-deaths-samples-to-be-sent-to-bhopal/article33449270.ece
30 December 2020||NALGONDA,||TRS leader found dead in New Jersey||Nallamada Devender Reddy, a native of Devarakonda in Nalgonda, a well-known face in the Telangana Rashtra Samithi affairs in New Jersey, USA, was found dead in his car in suspicious circumstances on the evening of December 28. According to reports, he went to his car outside his house to fetch a package. “He died while he was still inside the stationary car. The incident suggests fire was involved. New Jersey police have taken up a probe,” a coordinator in the TRS NRI Affairs said.  He is survived by his wife, daughter, and Bharatamma, his mother here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/trs-leader-found-dead-in-new-jersey/article33450074.ece
30 December 2020||December 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Night ride||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/night-ride/article33449283.ece
30 December 2020||New DelHi,||Stop damaging telecom infra, says COAI||The Cellular Operators Association of India (COAI) on Tuesday “strongly condemned” the disruption of telecom services in Punjab due to the damage to telecom infrastructure by protesters. “While we respect people’s right to protest on any issue, sabotaging the telecom network infrastructure and disrupting telecom services as a form of protest by anyone is strongly condemned,” COAI director-general S.P. Kochhar said in a statement.  The disruption of telecom services was causing immense inconvenience to the common man for whom the mobile services were so essential, he said. More than 1,500 telecom towers, largely belonging to Reliance JIo, have been damaged by farmers protesting against the farm laws.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/stop-damaging-telecom-infra-says-coai/article33449295.ece
30 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Harsh Vardhan made member of GAVI Board||Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan has been nominated by the Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunisation (GAVI) as a member on the GAVI Board, said a release by the Ministry on Tuesday. Dr. Harsh Vardhan will be representing the South East Area Regional Office (SEARO)/ Western Pacific Regional Office (WPRO) constituency on the GAVI Board. The seat is currently held by Myint Htwe of Myanmar. Dr. Harsh Vardhan will be representing India from January 1, 2021 till December 31, 2023. The GAVI Board is responsible for strategic direction and policymaking, oversees the operations of the Vaccine Alliance and monitors programme implementation. With membership drawn from a range of partner organisations, as well as experts from the private sector, the Board provides a forum for balanced strategic decision making, innovation and partner collaboration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/harsh-vardhan-made-member-of-gavi-board/article33449304.ece
30 December 2020||Kozhikode,||Teachers’ union flays rule amendment||The State government’s amendment to the Kerala Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education Rules, 2011, enabling school teachers to become head teachers without passing department-level tests has incurred the wrath of qualified primary teachers. The Kerala Test Qualified Primary Teachers’ Union submitted memoranda to deputy directors of education in all districts, claiming that the amendment would amount to contempt of court as the Supreme Court had ordered status quo , K.N. Anand, president of the union, said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/teachers-union-flays-rule-amendment/article33449571.ece
30 December 2020||Ghaziabad,||U.P. Cong. leader shot at by bike-borne assailants||A local Congress leader was injured when he was allegedly shot at by unidentified assailants in Bijnor, Uttar Pradesh, on Monday night. Vinod Tomar was returning home when the two bike-borne assailants fired at him. “One bullet hit him. He was admitted to a private hospital and was later referred to Meerut,” said an official. Uttar Pradesh Congress tweeted that Mr. Tomar was the district Kisan Congress president.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/up-cong-leader-shot-at-by-bike-borne-assailants/article33449661.ece
30 December 2020||Patna,||Police cane farmers’ rally in Patna||Thousands of farmers who took out a rally in Patna on Tuesday against the farm laws were baton-charged by the police and prevented from reaching the Raj Bhavan, where they planned to submit a memorandum to the Governor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/police-cane-farmers-rally-in-patna/article33449287.ece
30 December 2020||Ghaziabad,||Cong. leader shot at by bike-borne assailants in U.P.||A local Congress leader was injured when he was allegedly shot at by unidentified assailants in Bijnor, Uttar Pradesh, on Monday night. Vinod Tomar was returning home when the two bike-borne assailants fired at him. “One bullet hit him. He was admitted to a private hospital and was later referred to Meerut,” said an official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cong-leader-shot-at-by-bike-borne-assailants-in-up/article33449292.ece
30 December 2020||December 30 2020 00:00 IST,||HC orders inquiry into assault on lawyer by U.P. police||The Allahabad High Court on Tuesday ordered an inquiry into the assault on a government lawyer by police in Etah in Uttar Pradesh and directed the Chief Judicial Magistrate of the district to submit a report on the findings. The police meanwhile said that they had resorted to using “necessary force” against the lawyer and his family to evict them from the spot in order to prevent escalation of law and order problems and communal tension in the locality.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-orders-inquiry-into-assault-on-lawyer-by-up-police/article33449301.ece
30 December 2020||Kolkata,||Visva-Bharati being pulled into narrow hateful divisive politics: Mamata||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday once again raised the ‘outsider’ pitch, saying Visva-Bharati University was being dragged into narrow hateful politics. Ms. Banerjee was addressing people in Birbhum district where Union Home Minister Amit Shah held a road show on December 20.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/visva-bharati-being-pulled-into-narrow-hateful-divisive-politics-mamata/article33449303.ece
30 December 2020||New Delhi,||NHRC orders probe into alleged rape bid by judicial officer||The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) has taken suo motu cognisance of the alleged attempted rape and abuse of a woman employee by a judicial officer of the commercial court in Jhansi, U.P. “The victim is traumatised by the incident, and has submitted a written complaint on 19.12.2020 to the in-charge Inspector, PS Navabad, Jhansi, to register an FIR, but no FIR has been registered. The allegations are very grave,” the NHRC observed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nhrc-orders-probe-into-alleged-rape-bid-by-judicial-officer/article33449307.ece
30 December 2020||Guwahati,||2 expelled Assam Congress MLAs join BJP||Two Assam MLAs expelled by the Congress joined the BJP on Tuesday, about five months ahead of Assembly elections. Ajanta Neog, who represents the Golaghat Assembly constituency, is a three-time former minister, while Lakhipur MLA Rajdeep Goala is an influential “Tea Tribes” leader in southern Assam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/2-expelled-assam-congress-mlas-join-bjp/article33449317.ece
30 December 2020||Ahmedabad,||Bharuch MP Mansukh Vasava quits BJP||Gujarat BJP’s most senior parliamentarian and former Union Minister Mansukh Vasava on Tuesday resigned from the party over a MoEFCC (Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change) notification declaring 121 villages of Narmada district as ‘eco-sensitive zone’ in his constituency, Bharuch. The prominent tribal leader said he would resign from the Lok Sabha in the budget session of Parliament.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bharuch-mp-mansukh-vasava-quits-bjp/article33449318.ece
30 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Metro Rail’s north line opening delayed by a month||Much to the disappointment of thousands of commuters, Chennai Metro Rail’s phase I extension project that connects the northern parts of the city will be delayed by a month. While speaking at a meeting on Tuesday, Industries Minister M.C. Sampath said the phase I extension would be ready for public operations in February. According to sources in Chennai Metro Rail Limited (CMRL), one of the main reasons for the delay was the poor pace of construction at a few stations. “Seems like the construction of two stations, Gowri Ashram and Tondiarpet, will be over only in February,” a source said. The major hurdle was the contract of IL&FS, one of the key firms in the construction of the Tondiarpet and Sir Theagaraya College stations, had to be terminated, and CMRL had to rope in a new contractor to finish the leftover work. Though locomotive trial runs had begun, the Commissioner of Metro Rail Safety can begin the final inspection only if the contractors finish building the stations. “This inspection is likely to be done by the first week of February at the earliest. Then we have to make the necessary changes or rectifications and send the documents. The final approval certificate will be issued only if the Commissioner is satisfied wih the arrangements,” another source said. The construction of the depot at Wimco Nagar would be completed after a month or two, sources said. For this project, CMRL planned to operate 10 trains, sources said, adding that the frequency would remain unchanged for now since the number of people travelling was far less compared to the pre-COVID-19 times.  The final approval certificate will be issued only if the Commissioner of Metro Rail Safety is satisfied with the arrangements CMRL source||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/metro-rails-north-line-opening-delayed-by-a-month/article33449825.ece
30 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Rajini’s decision ensures status quo||Actor Rajinikanth’s decision to drop his plan of launching a political party is likely to reinforce duopoly in Tamil Nadu politics in future too. Since 1977, the All-India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) and the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) have been the pole stars of electoral politics. When Mr. Rajinikanth announced early this month that he would start a party in January, certain sections expected the emergence, at last, of a strong third force. But the latest development put paid to their hopes. “In this election too, it is going to be AIADMK versus DMK. Voters are going to be called upon to decide between [Chief Minister] Edappadi K Palaniswami and [DMK president] M.K. Stalin,” says veteran AIADMK legislator S. Semmalai, who has been in the fray for the last 43 years. There is no unanimity on the assessment of the impact of Mr. Rajinikanth’s decision. DMK functionaries say there would not be any room for a split in the anti-incumbency votes, while the AIADMK feels that when there is “no anti-incumbency vote”, the question of splitting it does not arise. On the contrary, anti-DMK votes will “solidly” go to the ruling party, believes a Minister who spoke on condition of anonymity. Sources in the DMK and the Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK) say the actor’s decision should have been disappointing to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which is perceived to be the one that props him up. But a key office-bearer of the BJP, dismissing the view, says the national leadership has been stressing the need for developing the party’s base in the State and not to look for “manna from heaven”. His colleague feels that had Mr. Rajinikanth chartered a journey independent of his party, the BJP would not have supported him. A senior member of the AIADMK says the talk of the BJP using Mr. Rajinikanth to browbeat his party stands dismissed. Also, there is no need for AIADMK workers to nurse any apprehension about the conspiracy of creating a division in the party, he points out. He adds that the absence of the actor appears to have dampened the prospects of a strong third force. Apart from what it can generate in the immediate future, Mr. Rajinikanth’s decision can have a long-term impact. A senior Minister says the actor’s entry might have infused fresh talent into politics. E.M. Sudarsana Natchiappan, Congress leader and former Union Minister of State, says the State has missed an opportunity of the actor playing the role of provider of a “course correction” to what the DMK and the AIADMK have been practising.  The State has missed an opportunity of the actor providing course correction to what DMK and AIADMK have been practising E.M. Sudarsana Natchiappan Congress leader||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rajinis-decision-ensures-status-quo/article33449407.ece
30 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Poor access to railway stations inconveniences commuters||To prevent accidents, the Chennai division of Southern Railway eliminated unmanned level crossings two years ago. Based on a policy of the Railway Board to improve passenger safety and speed up travel, Southern Railway removed more than 300 unmanned level crossings in all its six divisions by constructing subways, posting personnel, diverting traffic and closing the gates. However, in some western areas of the Chennai Division, residents and commuters are facing a severe hardship due to poor planning in the construction of foot over bridges and rail over bridges. Residents and commuters of Pattabhiram and Thiruninravur are inconvenienced by the closure of the level crossings, without any facility created for reaching the platforms and accessing the areas on either side of the stations. Thousands of residents in the western suburbs depend on suburban trains, rather than buses, to reach their offices in the city. They rue the poor facilities to reach the stations. K.S. Gopalakrishnan, a resident of Vallalar Nagar, located on the southern side of the Pattabhiram station, says residents and commuters who used to pass through the level crossing no. 10 have been left in the lurch as it was closed after the COVID-19 pandemic struck. The railways have installed a foot over bridge. But climbing it is arduous and senior citizens are unable to use it, he says. Moreover, the foot over bridge is not linked to platforms, including the Pattabhiram siding platform. Hence, commuters are forced to walk on the track. Pedestrians and commuters do not use the rail over bridge, built by the State government adjacent to the station because it has over 100 steps and has not been linked to the station. The residents of Thiruninravur, where the rail track cuts through the suburb, air the same grievance. S. Murugaian, secretary, Thiruninravur Rail Passengers Welfare Association, says the station is one of the most important in the western section. Thousands of residents use it to go to the city and Thiruvallur. While a number of government offices and temples are located to the south of the station, Chennai-Tiruvallur High Road is located to the north. With the level crossing closed, the residents have been demanding a subway, similar to the one built at the Nemilichery station. The association has also made representations to the railways as well as the State government, but a subway is yet to materialise. Denied amenities Commuters and activists say the western suburbs have been denied amenities, such as lifts and escalators, that have been provided at stations in the southern suburbs. A senior official of Southern Railway said it was not feasible to commission a mini-subway at Thiruninravur or Pattabhiram as in Nemilichery because the Nemilichery station has the entry and exit on one side. He said escalators had been commissioned at Tiruvallur. Based on the footfalls, a decision would be taken to build escalators at other stations too, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/poor-access-to-railway-stations-inconveniences-commuters/article33449837.ece
30 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||The challenges facing AIADMK ahead of Assembly election||The ruling AIADMK, which launched its campaign for the 2021 Assembly elections on Sunday, is facing several challenges in the run-up to its bid for an electoral hat-trick. It has to contend with the “pressure tactics” by its allies, primarily the BJP; the possible fallout of the DMK’s memorandum of corruption charges to the Governor against the Chief Minister and his colleagues; and the likely political impact of the expected return of former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa’s jailed aide V.K. Sasikala in January end. In recent weeks, the BJP has been ambivalent about acknowledging Chief Minister and AIADMK co-coordinator Edappadi K. Palaniswami, as the alliance’s candidate for the CM post. Though BJP leaders are maintaining that the relationship with the AIADMK remains intact, they appear disinclined to endorse Mr.Palaniswami’s candidature. There is a feeling that the AIADMK has not effectively countered the issue, though the national party, given its limited electoral strength, will be contesting in much lower number of seats in the alliance. A senior functionary of the AIADMK points out that the present situation is not like the 1980 Assembly election when the DMK and the Congress contested in an equal number of seats together and were briefly sparring over the CM candidate.  BJP’s view The BJP also seems to be promoting the concept of coalition government in the State, an idea that the AIADMK has rejected flatly. A senior BJP leader, also a long-standing member of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), expresses the confidence that despite the present posturing, his party will eventually settle for an electoral understanding with the AIADMK. The DMK’s memorandum to the Governor has evoked sharp responses from the ruling party and Mr. Palaniswami, at the party’s campaign on Sunday, termed it as one “full of lies”. Though the Governor’s decision is not yet known, it is regarded by jurists and senior officials alike as a matter which falls within the “exclusive domain” of the Governor. At the same time, the development has caused anxiety at least among sections of the AIADMK how it will play out, when the announcement of the election schedule is expected in a few months. Recent months saw a few occasions of subtle differences between the Governor and the government coming to the fore. The issue of 7.5% horizontal reservation in medical courses is one such instance.  Need for unity The AIADMK leaders are also privately discussing the possible impact of the release of Sasikala, briefly the party’s interim general secretary after Jayalalithaa’s death, on their organisation. While all the speakers at Sunday’s meeting invariably referred to the need for unity among members of the party, this has a special relevance for the AIADMK on account of the Sasikala factor. Perhaps, keeping this in mind, Law Minister C. Ve. Shanmugam, a few days ago spoke of a “big conspiracy” about freezing his party’s symbol, “Two Leaves”. Notwithstanding all the challenges, sections within the party are confident that the organisation can come out with flying colours, as they feel that the image of Mr. Palaniswami has “changed favourably” in the last four years, particularly in the past year or so.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/the-challenges-facing-aiadmk-ahead-of-assembly-election/article33449433.ece
30 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Damaged roads in Guindy Estate make for a rough ride||Commuting has become a nightmare for those who travel through the Guindy Industrial Estate, one of the oldest industrial estates in the country. One can find countless potholes on roads leading to the estate. “It’s like a roller coaster ride every day,” said an employee of an automobile firm inside the estate. “At the junction near Kochar Towers and Evolve Automotive, there are many potholes on the road, and people could skid and fall,” he said. “The road’s condition worsens after a spell of rain. Sometimes, the companies buy mud and stones with their own funds and fill the potholes which are in front of their premises,” a pushcart vendor said. The main and interior roads need urgent attention. Many of the roads are uneven. “Each year the Tamil Nadu Small Industries Development Corporation Limited (SIDCO) collects maintenance fee from us but they don’t do much to fix the problems within the estate. When I first came here the roads were good, there was greenery but now even if it rains for half an hour the roads becomes a terrible mess,” said the owner of an industrial unit. K.V. Kanakambaram, president of The Industrial Estate Manufacturers Association, said issues regarding poor infrastructure within the industrial estate had been raised in person and in writing many times but nothing had happened till date. “If you go around the estate you will see illegal parking, dangling wires and unauthorised petty shops. No one wants to maintain one of the most important industrial estates in the city,” he said. Mr. Kanakambaram also said Corporation authorities were collecting a huge amount of property tax from unit holders and SIDCO was also collecting maintenance charges but both had not done their work properly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/damaged-roads-in-guindy-estate-make-for-a-rough-ride/article33449821.ece
30 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Over 80% of hawkers in city yet to get loans under Centre’s scheme||The Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) has directed public sector banks to disburse loans to all beneficiaries under the Central government scheme, PM SVANidhi, in 10 days. At a meeting with bank officials in Ripon Buildings on Tuesday, Corporation Commissioner G. Prakash said the disbursement of loans to 17,000 street vendors would be done in 10 days. Most of the bank branches had failed to disburse the loans during the pandemic. “Banks have disbursed loans to just 20% of the beneficiaries of the PM SVANidhi scheme in Chennai,” Deputy Commissioner (Revenue and Finance) Meghanatha Reddy said. Authorities assured Representatives from public sector banks, including SBI Regional Managers L. Surraj Srinivasan of R2 IT Corridor region and R. Balaji from R1 Chennai Metro region, participated in the meeting and assured the authorities that the points put forth by the Corporation Commissioner would be fulfilled. According to the data shared by the Corporation, officials had uploaded 11,702 letters of recommendations under the scheme. As many as 1,858 bank branches were on board for the scheme. Of the 3,835 applications sanctioned by the banks, only 2,195 vendors had received the disbursed loans. Banks had disbursed only Rs. 2.17 crore under the PM SVANidhi scheme. The average time taken by the bank branches to sanction the loans was 30 days, officials said. Of the 27,000 street vendors in the city, more than 10,000 had left owing to the pandemic.  Digital payment Officials said issues with digital payment had led to a delay in the disbursal of loans. Just 2,195 of the vendors were using digital payments. Though Corporation officials had been helping street vendors set up digital payment methods, many had stopped vending in their original locations owing to the pandemic.  Banks have disbursed loans for just 20% of the beneficiaries of the PM SVANidhi scheme in Chennai   Meghanatha Reddy Deputy Commissioner (Revenue and Finance)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-80-of-hawkers-in-city-yet-to-get-loans-under-centres-scheme/article33449839.ece
30 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||A split in AIADMK is certain: Stalin||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Tuesday said there was confusion in the ruling AIADMK about the chief ministerial candidate and it would lead to the party’s split. “We do not know when the AIADMK will split. What is certain is that it will split,” he said while addressing a gathering in Ananthalai panchayat that comes under the Ranipet Assembly constituency. Mr. Stalin said there was a battle between Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami and Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam on who should be the chief ministerial candidate and that they have decided in favour of Mr. Palaniswami after a meeting. “In the last two days, the [some] AIADMK Ministers have been saying that the BJP and Prime Minister Narendra Modi would decide the Chief Minister. It is not clear when Mr. Panneerselvam will leave the party,” the DMK president said. Mr. Stalin said as far as the DMK was concerned, there was no confusion about the chief ministerial candidate. Pongal gift Reacting to the Chief Minister’s allegation that the DMK was preventing the distribution of Rs. 2,500 as a Pongal gift, Mr. Stalin said the DMK was only demanding that the distribution of the money be done in a fair and transparent manner. “I welcomed the government’s decision to distribute money even though it was announced with an eye on the election. There are complaints. “The ruling partymen are not only using the picture of the Chief Minister, but also that of the local Ministers and MLAs. We have registered a complaint with the Election Commission,” he said. The DMK leader swore on party founder C.N. Annadurai that he never wanted to scuttle the Pongal gift scheme and was all for enhancing the amount. 200 Assembly seats Expressing confidence that the DMK would win more than 200 Assembly seats in 2021, Mr. Stalin said that the party would put an end to all issues faced by government employees, teachers and other sections of the society. “We will also increase the working days of the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee scheme from 100 days to 150 days,” the DMK president added.  As far as the DMK is concerned, there is no confusion about the Chief Ministerial candidate||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-split-in-aiadmk-is-certain-stalin/article33449386.ece
30 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||After 7 months, daily case count drops under 1,000||Tamil Nadu’s daily COVID-19 count dropped below 1,000 for the first time in seven months. A total of 957 persons tested positive on Tuesday. The last time that the State recorded less than 1,000 cases was on May 30 when 938 persons were found infected. The fresh cases took the State’s overall tally to 8,16,132. Another 12 persons succumbed to the infection, taking the toll to 12,092. A total of 7,95,293 persons have so far been discharged after treatment. As many as 8,747 persons are under treatment. As the fresh infections continue to fall, two districts — Ariyalur and Perambalur — recorded no fresh cases, while eight districts reported cases in single digits. In Chennai, 286 persons tested positive, followed by Coimbatore with 81 cases. Chengalpattu and Tiruvallur had 47 cases each. There were 38 cases in Tiruppur, 34 each in Erode and Salem and 32 in Thanjavur. Of the 12 fatalities, Tiruchi recorded three deaths, while Chennai and Coimbatore had two deaths each. One of them — a 33-year-old from Chennai with no co-morbidities — tested positive on December 16, and was admitted to the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital on December 17 with complaints of difficulty in breathing for seven days. He died soon after arrival at the hospital owing to COVID-19 pneumonia and respiratory failure. A 46-year-old man from Coimbatore with diabetes and systemic hypertension died at the Coimbatore Medical College and ESI Hospital a day after admission on December 27 owing to COVID-19 pneumonia, acute respiratory distress syndrome, acute respiratory failure, diabetes and systemic hypertension. In the last 24 hours, 64,768 samples were tested, taking the total figure to 1,40,52,537.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/after-7-months-daily-case-count-drops-under-1000/article33449399.ece
30 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Political role comes to an end||Over two decades after he first serenaded his love for politics and sent periodical messages loaded with political ambition, actor Rajinikanth in the denouement has concluded that he and politics are miles apart. Critics feel the pandemic and his health have relieved him of the agony of launching a party, since he never even prepared for a plunge. “I have been saying that he is not dependable by his own expressions. He is not only indecisive, but is also ever unprepared to undertake a journey in politics. He is highly inadequate [politically], he understands it more than anyone else, but was not able to accept it,” said Ramu Manivannan, professor and head of department of politics and public administration, University of Madras. His brush with politics have thrown up differing results. In the mid-1990s, he condemned the deteriorating law and order situation in Tamil Nadu, after a bomb was hurled at the residence of director Maniratnam. Later, he openly supported the DMK-TMC combine, which won with a landslide in the 1996 Assembly election. He again voiced support for the alliance in the snap poll to the Lok Sabha in 1998, even though it happened amid the serial bomb blast in Coimbatore. But the DMK-TMC fared badly. In the 2004 Lok Sabha polls, he backed BJP-AIADMK, but the formation was routed. Thereafter, some parties sought to appropriate him, but he proved elusive. “He was getting away with film dialogues. But he was now at a final frontier, set by BJP,” Prof. Manivannan said. Sashi Kumar, chairman of the Media Development Foundation, felt the actor’s health was indeed an issue. He also pointed out that Mr. Rajinikanth had always been hesitant. “He has an abnegating nature, apart from what he projects in the films. To be fair to him, he has a spiritual abnegating nature. He was forced against his grain to enter into an area, which I don’t think he would have done well in either,” Mr. Kumar said. To those who expected Mr. Rajinikanth to replicate former Chief Minister M.G. Ramachandran’s success in politics, Mr. Kumar said MGR was a phenomenon. In Mr. Rajinkanth’s case, his age also came in the way of succeeding in politics. “He would have got 3% [votes] or more [had he contested]. Tamil Nadu is still an arena for the Dravidian parties. Mr. Rajinikanth’s ideology was also not clear. It looked like he was currying favour with the BJP,” he said. Prof. Manivannan reiterated that a person who could not see himself in politics, as an opposition leader, could never be the leader of the masses or a Chief Minister. “How could one see themself only as a Chief Minister? You plunge into politics and not power,” he said.  How could one see themself only as a Chief Minister? You plunge into politics and not power Ramu Manivannan Professor, University of Madras||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/political-role-comes-to-an-end/article33449400.ece
30 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||U.K. returnee tests positive for new strain of SARS-CoV-2 virus||The sample of one U.K. returnee, who had tested positive for COVID-19 and is under isolation at a hospital, has been found to be positive for the new strain of the SARS-CoV-2 virus, reported from U.K., Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan said. The patient, a resident of Chennai, is among six U.K. returnees whose samples were found to be positive for the new U.K. variant genome, following genomic analysis in the country. “He was quarantined immediately on arrival. He was isolated in a separate room at the hospital, soon after he tested positive for COVID-19, and all his contacts too have been tested. Those who travelled with him in the flight were tested and found to be negative. He is doing well,” he told reporters, following an inspection at the Government Kilpauk Medical College Hospital on Tuesday morning. According to a bulletin issued by the Health Department, six more U.K. returnees tested positive for COVID-19 in the State, taking the total number of primary cases to 19. The contact of a patient was also found to be infected. Till date, of the 100 contacts of the 19 patients, 16 have tested positive for COVID-19 and 79 negative. Results of five were awaited. Samples of the patients were sent for genomic analysis to the National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune. All of them have been undergoing treatment in separate isolation wards in hospitals and are doing well, he said. Till date, 30 samples have been sent to NIV for genomic analysis, of which the result of one has arrived. The remaining results are awaited, and three more samples are being sent for genomic analysis, he said He said the Centre had informed that there was no need for any change in the existing testing and treatment protocols. “From the beginning, the State has insisted on RT-PCR negative reports, 96 hours prior to travelling from abroad, and immediate home quarantine on arrival. As a result of these two measures, the chances of transmission are less,” he added. Approximately 2,300 persons have returned to the State, from the U.K., between November 25 and December 21. A reconciled figure of 2,080 persons was arrived at after doing away with double entries and those who moved to other States. Of them, 1,549 have been traced and tested, out of whom 1,432 have tested negative. “The remaining 531 persons are being traced. A majority of those who need to be traced are in Chennai and Chengalpattu,” he said. While a separate 120-bed ward has been set up at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital, a similar facility, with 100 beds, has also been set up at KMC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/uk-returnee-tests-positive-for-new-strain-of-sars-cov-2-virus/article33449402.ece
30 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Rajini Makkal Mandram members try to come to terms with actor’s decision||Actor Rajinikanth’s decision, opting out of political entry, took his Rajini Makkal Mandram (RMM) members by surprise. Having worked to build a political platform for the last three years, they were eagerly waiting for him to announce on December 31 the date of the launch of the proposed party. A sense of dejection was prevalent among them. While a motley group of supporters staged a demonstration near his Poes Garden bungalow — the actor had left for his farmhouse on the city outskirts — but many made peace with his decision on account of his health. Ra. Arjunamurthy, who quit the BJP and joined Mr. Rajinikanth on December 3, and was named as the chief coordinator of the proposed party, tweeted, “I am aware of the severe unhappiness Rajini sir’s heart will be in right now. My wholehearted support to sir on his decision.” Following Mr. Rajinikanth’s announcement on December 3, the RMM had swung into full-fledged action with its booth committee activities across the State, a member said. R. Rajini Ganesan, RMM district secretary, Thanjavur, however, was vocal with his dejection. “This is a very big disappointment. His health is very important. But people like us, at the grassroots level, are pained at his decision as we had put in so much of work and have brought in people from other parties as well to join us,” he said. Mr. Ganesan said lots of people had come to work for the RMM, leaving aside their work and families and that the people of the State were willing to vote for the superstar. South Chennai RMM district secretary R. Ravichandran said only the actor’s health was important and they would accept whatever decision he took.  Big organisation “Even during the district secretaries’ meeting, we told him that we will abide by any decision. Maybe the people are disappointed with his decision. After we formed our booth committees, everyone who we met were very positive about us. That might be a slight disappointment for them,” he said. “We have now become such a big organisation like the AIADMK and the DMK,” he claimed and said the actor could have used that to do something. Sridhar, another member of RMM, said, “All we can say is that we are not lucky. We cannot go against his decision.” Karate Thiagarajan, former Congress functionary, who is considered an associate of Rajinikanth, said the general view was that the superstar could have made this announcement on December 3 itself. “Everyone had come to that mindset by then that he will not take the plunge. After he made the announcement on December 3, people from the DMK started targeting him. It is my personal opinion that he will come out and give a voice against the DMK,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rajini-makkal-mandram-members-try-to-come-to-terms-with-actors-decision/article33449404.ece
30 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Work on ECR-OMR link road to commence by February||Work to form a six-lane road connecting the Thoraipakkam-Pallavaram Radial Road with the East Coast Road (ECR) is likely to commence by February 2021. The project will help divert some traffic from Rajiv Gandhi Salai, popularly known as Old Mahabalipuram Road. In the first phase, the Highways Department will construct a 750 m-long stretch that will take off from OMR and end near Canal Bank Road, running along the Buckingham Canal that is parallel to both the OMR and the ECR. The Canal Bank Road would be widened into two lanes and connectivity would be provided to the existing bridges across the canal. Land acquisition for the first phase had been completed, the official explained. Tenders had already been floated for the Rs. 15 crore work. The total cost of the project would be Rs. 204 crore, of which land acquisition alone amounts to Rs. 189 crore. The department has written to the Public Works Department requesting it to remove encroachments along the canal. The design for the 1.5 km-long-road is being presently finalised. K. Natarajan, a resident of Kandanchavadi, said the link project was a welcome move. “There is no proper link between the two roads between Thiruvanmiyur and Sholinganallur junction. A six-lane road will really help, especially in case of traffic jams on the OMR. More such roads should be created to help in cases of emergency,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/work-on-ecr-omr-link-road-to-commence-by-february/article33449832.ece
30 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Non-compliance with wearing masks still a challenge’||Non-compliance with wearing masks continues to be a challenge for the State Health Department, Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan said here on Tuesday. “Despite creating awareness, youngsters are still seen without masks. Similarly, people do not wear masks while visiting areas where shops are located. At times, bus drivers and conductors do not wear masks . If marriage halls do not adhere to norms, we will take action under the T.N. Public Health Act and close down the halls,” he told presspersons. The Centre has said there was no need for panic with regard to the new COVID-19 variant as there were already similar strains. Genomic analysis was being done and all patients were being isolated in separate wards, Mr. Radhakrishnan said. The Health Secretary said entry point checkposts were installed to check the inflow of persons from Bengaluru and Thiruvananthapuram. Routes through Coimbatore and Tiruvallur were also being monitored at checkposts, he said, adding that they were getting a list from the Bureau of Immigration, too. Wearing masks was mandatory in public places where more than 20 persons have converged, regardless of it being a cultural function, a religious event or an election event, Mr. Radhakrishnan said. All must wear masks, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/non-compliance-with-wearing-masks-still-a-challenge/article33449405.ece
30 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Cleanliness at MRTS stations goes for a toss||The railway stations of the Mass Rapid Transit System (MRTS) between Chennai Beach and Velachery have been affected by poor maintenance since the COVID-19 pandemic struck. The MRTS services, linking several important residential areas in south Chennai with the busy commercial district, were stopped after the lockdown was announced on March 24. The State government has allowed workmen suburban special trains to resume. But commuters using the MRTS find the sprawling stations being maintained poorly. At Velachery, Perungudi and Thiruvanmiyur stations, the platforms are covered with bird droppings, and the track is strewn with garbage. T. Suresh, who commutes in the workmen special from Perungudi, says Southern Railway had maintained the MRTS stations properly by outsourcing the work to private agents. Since the lockdown and the resumption of services a few months ago, the stations have not been maintained well. Previous arrangement The private agents kept the stations and the platforms clean, but the stations are now filled with garbage and bird droppings, he says. A senior official of Southern Railway said the maintenance work by private agencies was stopped after the lockdown was announced. Once normal operations are restored by January, the private operators will again take over station maintenance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cleanliness-at-mrts-stations-goes-for-a-toss/article33449829.ece
30 December 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Infected mitral valve of young patient repaired||Doctors at the Madras Medical Mission hospital here have repaired the infected mitral valve in the heart of a young patient. A release from the hospital said the patient was diagnosed with infective endocarditis of the mitral valve. Pointing out that the conventional treatment was to replace the mitral valve with an artificial valve, U. Kalaichelvan, senior cardiology consultant at the hospital, said this was risky as the replaced valves may also get infected. The best option Anbarasu Mohanraj, senior cardiac surgeon, said, “Preserving the native valve gifted to humans by nature is the best option. Not even the best of the man-made artificial valves can match the performance and durability of a perfectly repaired native mitral valve.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/infected-mitral-valve-of-young-patient-repaired/article33449833.ece
30 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Ramadoss hails Kerala’s reservation policy||PMK founder S. Ramadoss on Tuesday hailed the reservation system in Kerala and termed it a paradise of social justice. He urged other States to learn and adopt it. In a Facebook post, ‘For those who don’t understand the meaning of social justice’, he gave an example of how Kerala implemented the reservation system after realising that reservation at the same level would not ensure social justice. Dr. Ramadoss said Kerala introduced reservation in 1950, which was at 45%. This was increased to 50% in 1957. In the early 1990s, Kerala offered 40% reservation to eight backward caste groups, up from five in 1966, he said. Apart from that, the State offered a separate 10% reservation to the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes, Dr. Ramadoss said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ramadoss-hails-keralas-reservation-policy/article33449847.ece
30 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Fulfil the demands of Jacto-Geo: VCK to govt.||VCK president Thol. Thirumavalavan on Tuesday urged the State government to fulfil the demands of the Joint Action Council of Teachers’ Organisations - Government Employees’ Organisations (Jacto-Geo) and drop the contributory pension scheme. In a statement, he noted that members of Jacto-Geo had been continuously protesting over various demands. “Disciplinary action was taken against 5,068 government teachers and employees for staging protests last year, as a result of which over 40 members have not been able to get pension post-retirement,” Mr. Thirumavalavan said. He urged the State government to immediately drop the disciplinary action and withdraw the cases registered against them, and take a firm stance of not implementing the new contributory pension scheme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fulfil-demands-of-jacto-geo-vck-to-govt/article33449851.ece
30 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Two arrested for attempt to grab land in Adyar||The Adyar police on Tuesday arrested two persons who forged documents and attempted to usurp a land worth Rs. 4 crore in Kasturba Nagar. The police said on October 16, S. Swaminathan, 65, of East Tambaram, lodged a complaint saying that he had been maintaining a piece of land, measuring 2,880 sq ft and worth around Rs. 4 crore, in Dhanalakshmi Street, Kasturba Nagar. He said the original title holder, Evalyn Caleb, was living in Australia and died there in 1989. Her heir Nimalyn Chandrika Beutler, who is also living in Australia, obtained a patta in her name legally. Mr. Swaminathan had been given the power by the title holder to maintain the property in her absence. Under such circumstances, he learnt that Nesan Dickson Christopher and his associate created a forged power of attorney as if Evalyn Caleb empowered him to sell the property as he wished. Utilising the forged document, Christopher executed a sale deed in favour of his associate Sivasankar and registered the sale deed with the sub-registrar office. The Adyar crime investigation wing registered a case and after investigation arrested Nesan Dickson Christopher, 44, of Saligramam, and Sivasankar, 45, of Virugambakkam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-arrested-for-attempt-to-grab-land-in-adyar/article33449822.ece
30 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Sriperumbudur woman held for trying to kill son||The Sriperumbudur police on Tuesday arrested a woman in Katchipattu village after a video of her attempting to kill her child went viral. The Police said the accused Chitra stayed in Kamaraj Nagar, Katchipattu village, Sriperumbudur. She is married to Anandaraj of Karumangalani and has two sons from previous relationships. Two days ago, her five-year old elder son was found sleeping in a bush. Passersby rescued him and handed him over to his grandmother since the child refused to go to his mother. The boy had an injury in one of his eyes. On Sunday, a video of Chitra strangling the child went viral on social media. Police personnel traced the woman to her house. They said Chitra was in an illicit relationship with Mahesh, 26. Both had decided to kill the children as they were a hindrance to their affair. Mahesh was the one who recorded video of her strangling the child. However, the child escaped from them. The Sriperumpudur police arrested her and are on the look out for Mahesh. The police said the duo were under suspicion in the death of the second child in a fire accident a few months ago. She was remanded in judicial custody. Investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sriperumbudur-woman-held-for-trying-to-kill-son/article33449827.ece
30 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||New committee inducted at St. John ambulance centre||Members of the new committee at the St. John Ambulance Chennai West Centre were inducted recently at a function in the city. Justice S. Jagadeesan, retired judge of the Madras High Court and chairman of St. John’s Ambulance, Tamil Nadu State Centre, said first aid training was a fundamental life skill that would help save lives during medical emergencies. The centres offering such first aid training courses should ensure quality training was provided through certified instructors. Madras High Court Justice S. Vimala said she was interested in pursuing first aid training and suggested that members of the legal fraternity, too, give importance to this basic skill. Elaborating on the objectives of the centre, Sowmya Muralikumaran, its secretary and consultant general physician, Apollo Spectra Hospital, said the organisation was committed to extending services to homes for the children and elderly, and schools.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-committee-inducted-at-st-john-ambulance-centre/article33449826.ece
30 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Three held for stealing bikes||Three juveniles were apprehended in the Shastri Nagar police station limits for allegedly stealing bikes from Elliot’s Beach. On Sunday, Mohammed Ibrahim, 21, parked his bike near Elliot’s Beach. When he returned, the bike was missing. The police traced the suspects and seized two bikes from them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-held-for-stealing-bikes/article33449823.ece
30 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Aavin will supply ghee to welfare board||Aavin will supply a total of 12.69 lakh bottles of ghee, each containing 100 g, to the Tamil Nadu Construction Workers Welfare Board as part of a Pongal gift pack. The special packs will be supplied to the board’s members through the Tamil Nadu Civil Supplies Corporation, said R. Nanthagopal, Aavin managing director, who took charge on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aavin-will-supply-ghee-to-welfare-board/article33449828.ece
30 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Cigarettes, drones seized at airport||The Air Customs seized cigarettes and drones worth Rs. 6.17 lakh at the airport. Karuppasamy and Sasikumar, who arrived from Dubai, had concealed four drones, 10 batteries valued at Rs. 4.17 lakh and 100 cartons of Benson & Hedges cigarettes, valued at Rs. 2 lakh, in their check-in baggage, according to a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cigarettes-drones-seized-at-airport/article33449830.ece
30 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Applications for M. Phil in Clinical Psychology||The M.Phil Clinical Psychology course for 2020-21 session will commence from January 12, 2021, at the Institute of Mental Health (IMH). According to a press release, the duration of the course is two years. The prospectus, application form and other details are available on the websiteswww.tnhealth.tn.gov.inandwww.tnmedicalselection.org Application forms can be downloaded, and the fill-in form along with relevant documents should be sent to the Secretary, Selection Committee, Directorate of Medical Education, No. 162, EVR Periyar Salai, Kilpauk, Chennai - 600 010 on or before 5 p.m. on January 5, 2021. An entrance examination will be held on January 8 between 8 a.m. and 12 noon at IMH, Medavakkam Tank Road, Kilpauk, Chennai - 600 010, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/applications-for-m-phil-in-clinical-psychology/article33449848.ece
30 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Hostels for tribal women opened||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami unveiled new buildings in Chennai and Tiruvallur districts for the Adi Dravidar and Tribal Welfare Department. He unveiled hostels for women from Adi Dravidar and tribal communities, built at a cost of Rs. 2.20 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hostels-for-tribal-women-opened/article33450050.ece
30 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CS reviews arrangements||Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam on Tuesday chaired a meeting with representatives of religious organisations at the Secretariat to review the arrangements for Thaipoosam, which falls on January 28 next. Director-General of Police J.K. Tripathy and senior officials were present at the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/review-meet-held-ahead-of-thaipoosam/article33449843.ece
30 December 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore Vizha from January 2||Coimbatore Vizha, a nine-day festival to celebrate Coimbatore, will be held from January 2 to 10 this year with most of the events moving to the virtual platform. Organised by Young Indians (Yi) in partnership with nearly 50 organisations, the focus of the vizha this year will be on “hope, resilience, and gratitude”. Aishwarya Arjun, former chair of Yi - Coimbatore, Jayaprashanth Jayachandran, chair or Yi - Coimbatore, and Swathi Anantharam, co-chair of Coimbatore Vizha, told presspersons here on Tuesday it was decided to take the 13th edition of the event online to make it safe for the participants because of the pandemic. Since most of the programmes would be on the virtual platform, it was expected to attract global viewership and participation. Of the 75 plus programmes, nearly 20 would be special events. The inaugural function would be showering of flowers from a helicopter over ESI and Coimbatore Medical College hospitals on January 2. Ministers SP Velumani and C. Vijayabaskar would take part in the inaugural event. Helicopter rides would be organised for two days for the COVID-19 warriors free of cost. The rides would be available for the public from January 7 to 10 and the users would have to pay for it. Participants of the Coimbatore marathon and cyclathon could run/cycle at their convenient time and location and upload the details. For the heritage tour, a group of historians were shooting videos and talks and these would be uploaded on the website. A new programme for the year was Memories of Coimbatore. All those who had been part of the city could share their memories online. The organisers had got in touch with Tamil Sanghams and alumni networks to reach out to more people. About 30 superbikes would take part in an awareness drive on traffic rules. A book on Birds of Coimbatore would be launched on January 8 and startups could apply till December 31 to share their ideas for support at The Pitch. Gift a Device was another new event where the public could deposit devices that they were not using at specific collection points. These would be refurbished and distributed to needy school students. The aim was to help them with the online classes by giving them a device, they said. In the case of food festival, bloggers had been involved, apart from 10 restaurants, and there would be online contests and meetings. Vizha details are available onwww.coimbatorevizha. comThe vizha can also be followed on Instagram (@coimbatorevizha), Facebook (/cbevizha) and Twitter (@coimbatorevizha)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-vizha-from-january-2/article33449441.ece
30 December 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||DMK threatens to intensify protest||Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam will intensify its protest in Coimbatore if the State Government and Coimbatore police deny permission for holding ‘makkal grama sabai’ meetings, Singanallur MLA N. Karthik said here on Tuesday while leading a protest condemning the police action against party workers. He alleged that the police at the behest of Municipal Administration Minister S.P. Velumani was denying permission to the DMK to even tie party flags to hold the meetings. Tuesday’s protest was only the first. If the police continued with this line of action, the DMK would not only intensify its protest but also rope in allies to register its protest, he said. Earlier, as the Coimbatore City Police had placed barricades, Mr. Karthik, former minister Pongalur N. Palanisamy, Member of Parliament, Pollachi, K. Shanmuga Sundaram, DMK unit heads Paiya Gounder alias Krishnan and others marched towards the protest venue. But the police prevented them from marching ahead at the Red Cross Junction, near the Coimbatore South Taluk office. The police also detained the party’s Coimbatore south unit chief Thedral Selvaraj and more than 300 workers from entering the city to join the protest, the party sources claimed. At the end of the protest, the Coimbatore City Police removed the leaders and around 500 workers from the Red Cross Junction, said sources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-threatens-to-intensify-protest/article33449461.ece
30 December 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Illegal red earth mining: activists to observe a fast||Activists from the Thadagam Valley Mineral Resources Protection Committee will stage a hunger strike here on January 5, condemning the alleged increase in red earth mining at Thadagam valley. Members of the Committee petitioned Collector K. Rajamani and City Commissioner of Police Sumit Sharan on Tuesday seeking permission for the hunger strike. S. Ganesh, one of the activists from Thadagam who submitted the petitions, alleged that the illegal red earth mining in Thadagam valley had seen a sharp increase “in the past three days.” Despite restrictions by the district administration, over 400 vehicles were involved in red earth mining, he claimed. The Committee comprised various organisations such as Tamil Nadu Farmers Association, Coimbatore District Irula Welfare Association and individual environmentalists, he said. “If no action is taken to stop the illegal mining, we will stage the hunger strike as scheduled,” Mr. Ganesh said, adding that it would be staged within the Coimbatore City Police limits and the location would be announced later. When contacted, Revenue Divisional Officer (Coimbatore North) P. Suresh said the Tahsildar and the Village Administrative Officers concerned had been informed to take action on the complaint.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/illegal-red-earth-mining-activists-to-observe-a-fast/article33449438.ece
30 December 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Container shortage hits textile exporters||Textile and clothing exporters are hit by container shortage and if the situation continues, they can lose nearly 20 % business, according to the Cotton Textiles Export Promotion Council. Chairman of the Council Manoj Patodia has said in a press release that the exporters are facing severe shortage of containers. “The situation is becoming very serious as exporters are finding it difficult to adhere to shipment schedules which is a matter of concern,” he said. “It takes more than two weeks for the exporters to get the containers for shipments of export cargos which is resulting in delay and non-fulfilment of terms and conditions as agreed with the overseas buyers,” Mr. Patodia said. One of the reasons is said to be the low volume of imports from China. The shortage is not only at the gateway ports, but also at the Inland Container Depots. In the initial months of the lockdown, exports were low. However, after the relaxations, exports of textiles and clothing have picked up sharply. Many exporters have orders for shipments till March 31. Cancellation of orders However, the delay in shipments because of container shortage is leading to cancellation of orders in many cases and if the issue is not resolved on a priority basis, exporters of textiles and clothing may lose nearly 20 % of the business. Mr. Patodia urged the government to step in and make available adequate containers for exporters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/container-shortage-hits-textile-exporters/article33449439.ece
30 December 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||IRCTC announces air package to Ayodhya||The Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) announced an air package to Ayodhya from Coimbatore in March next year. A release said the tour would commence at Coimbatore International Airport on March 10 and end on March 14. The tour would cover Varanasi, Kashi Vishwanath temple, Triveni Sangam, Prayagraj and Ayodhya. The package started at Rs. 26,695 which included air fare, accommodation and vehicle travel expenses, the release said. Those interested may contact IRCTC Coimbatore for bookings at 90031 40655 and 82879 31965.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/irctc-announces-air-package-to-ayodhya/article33449442.ece
30 December 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Pilloor III: district administration to meet land owners||Ahead of acquiring the lands required for the implementation of the Rs. 964 crore Pilloor III drinking water supply scheme, the district administration will conduct a meeting with land owners on Wednesday. Sources said that the meeting would be held in Thimmampalayam Pudur in Mettupalayam and Periyanaickenpalayam inviting the land owners concerned from Thekkamptty, Marudhur, Gudalur North, Gudalur South, Naickenpalayam, Kurudampalayam, Narasimhanaickenpalayam, Pannimadai and Nanjundapuram villages. The Tamil Nadu Water Supply and Drainage Board is implementing the scheme on the Coimbatore Corporation’s behalf to supply 180 million litres a day till 2035 and 317 million litres a day till 2050. The administration had proposed to acquire 121 of the 163 acre required for the project. The rest of the land belonged to the Revenue Department. At the Wednesday’s hearing the administration would ask for objections to the land acquisition details it published in the district gazette and after taking into account the same, notify the same. The notification of the gazette publication would pave way for the administration to enter into private negotiation with the land owners or acquire the land as per the Land Acquisition Act, 2013. Sources said the Board had already begun work on the government lands and at the place where it drew water from River Bhavani, near Mettupalayam. The acquisition of land from the land owners was for laying pipeline to convey the treated water from the treatment plant to a master storage reservoir in Pannimadai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pilloor-iii-district-administration-to-meet-land-owners/article33449853.ece
30 December 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Govt. school teachers reach out to Class XII students||To increase the online class attendance and to motivate Class XII students ahead of the public examination, teachers from the government schools in and around S.S. Kulam have started visiting the houses of the students. On Monday, teachers from the government higher secondary school at Vagarayampalayam visited the houses of students and offered guidance on preparation for the public examination. According to the school’s headmaster A. Elamurugan, their man focus was on Class XII students. “We usually conduct career guidance sessions every year at the school. But it is not possible now because of the pandemic,” Mr. Elamurugan said. After a day into the initiative, the Class XII attendance for online classes increased to nearly 95% on Tuesday, as opposed to the usual 80%, he claimed. District Educational Officer R. Geetha said that all the 47 government high and higher secondary schools in S.S. Kulam educational district have been encouraged to carry out such visits. The initiative was carried out following a drop in attendance for online classes in some schools, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-school-teachers-reach-out-to-class-xii-students/article33449856.ece
30 December 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Hindu Munnani stages protest||The Coimbatore City Police removed over 100 members of Hindu Munnani who staged a demonstration condemning the arrest of its State President Kadeswara C. Subramaniam in Dindigul on Tuesday. The police said the members gathered in front of the Koniamman temple on Tuesday evening. The Bazaar Street police removed 129 members and kept them at a private hall. They were released later, the police said. Tiruppur In Tiruppur, the Hindu Munnani members staged demonstrations at two locations. The Tiruppur City Police removed 135 members and released them later.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hindu-munnani-stages-protest/article33449470.ece
30 December 2020||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||Dikshithars relent, cars taken out of Natarajar temple||The temple cars of Sabapathy temple, popularly known as Sri Natarajar temple in Chidambaram, were taken around the four Mada Streets on Tuesday after protesting Pothu Dikshithars relented and brought them out of the premises. COVID-19 protocols were adhered to. The committee of Pothu Dikshithars, the hereditary custodians-cum-archakas of the temple, had earlier taken the stand that they would not bring the cars out of the temple as the district administration was making online passes mandatory for devotees to participate in the festivities. Over 300 Dikshithars and Sivanadiyars and members of various Hindu outfits resorted to a road roko on Monday, demanding that the administration cancel the online pass system. Though senior police and revenue officials tried to pacify them, they refused to budge. As the stalemate continued till 4 a.m. on Tuesday, the Dikshithars took the stand that whoever wanted to see the presiding deities could come in and offer worship. Ultimately, the Dikshithars made a climb-down and decided to take the cars out of the temple, bringing an end to the stalemate. Five cars Accordingly, five cars carrying the processional-cum-presiding deity Lord Nataraja and his consort Sivagamasundari, Lord Vinayaka, Lord Subramanian and Chandigeswar rolled out from the temple premises around 7.30 a.m. The district administration issued a set of guidelines to participate in the festivities, and devotees with online passes were allowed into the temple.  On Wednesday, the penultimate day of the 10-day festivities, the sanctum sanctorum would be again opened for ‘Arudra darshan’ when the presiding deity in a cosmic dance posture would be taken out in a palanquin procession. Elaborate security arrangements have been made by the Cuddalore district police for the ‘Arudra darshan’. A huge posse of police personnel, led by Superintendent of Police M. Sree Abhinav, have been deployed for security.  On Wednesday, the sanctum sanctorum will be opened for ‘Arudra darshan’ when the presiding deity in a cosmic dance posture will be taken out in a procession||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cars-taken-out-of-natarajar-temple/article33449383.ece
30 December 2020||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||Team assesses damage in Chidambaram||The eight-member inter-Ministerial team deputed by the Centre to Cuddalore district to assess the damage caused by Cyclone Burevi visited Chidambaram on Wednesday. The team led by Ashutosh Agnihotri, Joint Secretary (CTCR and IS II), began its visit at Velakudi, near Chidambaram. The team inspected roads to assess the damage caused by flooding during rain. The team also inspected agricultural fields submerged in rainwater at Saliyanthoppu and breach of the Pasimuthan odai bund due to flooding. District Collector Chandra Sekhar Sakhamuri elaborated on the loss that had been estimated to agriculture and horticulture crops, roads and other infrastructure due to rain with the help of photos.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/team-studies-damage-due-to-burevi-in-chidambaram/article33449844.ece
30 December 2020||Dharmapuri,TAMIL NADU||Dharmapuri dist. administration bans New Year celebrations||The district administration has banned any kind of celebrations, revelry up to New Year day on January 1,2021, in view of the COVID containment measures. In its wake, the administration has directed restaurants, clubs, party halls, and all other recreational spaces to adhere to the guidelines and ensure their premises are not let out for any form of midnight revelry. As a result, there shall be no celebrations on the streets or in private properties ringing in the New Year at midnight of December 31, or on January 1, 2021. Further, in view of the containment measures, the Collector has advised conduct of weddings in venues and wedding halls with only 50 % of the total strength of the venue. Revenue authorities, police, local bodies, public health officials are directed to ensure no violations are allowed to take place. Any violations will attract provisions of Disaster Management Act, 2005. Earlier, Collector S.P. Karthikaa reviewed COVID 19 containment measures in view of the Health Ministry revealing cases of new strain from UK. The Collector has asked for intensifying monitoring of COVID safety protocols including wearing of masks, and physical distancing. Tourists spots like Hoggenakkal, public places including bus stands, railway stations, temples will be closely monitored, according to the district administration. Public may contact the administration’s toll free number 1077.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dharmapuri-dist-administration-bans-new-year-celebrations/article33449456.ece
30 December 2020||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||45 Amma clinics in Dharmapuri||The district will have 45 Amma mini clinics functioning out of rural areas and towns, the administration said. Of the 45 mini clinics, 43 will function in rural areas and two in towns. The clinics will function from 8 a.m. to 12 noon, and from 4 p.m. to 7 p.m. in rural areas and towns.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/45-amma-clinics-in-dharmapuri/article33449457.ece
30 December 2020||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||Plea to fill vacant posts||The DYFI state president N Regiskumar has urged the Central and State governments to fill vacant posts which could be close to a million in Tamil Nadu. Addressing DYFI members, who were taking out a padayatra at Saveriarpalayam here on Monday to condemn the governments for their ‘anti-people’ activities, he said the BJP had promised said that, if voted to power, the Central government would unearth black money but the Prime Minister Narendra Modi had completely forgotten the issue. He asked the people to think before they cast their votes in the 2021 Assembly elections. The Centre was keen on privatising public sector undertakings and the AIADMK government in the State was keeping quiet. Private players were slowly getting into the domain of TANGEDCO. He blamed the AIADMK government for the development. Since 10 lakh posts were lying vacant in the State, the governments should take steps to fill them, he added. At least 12 crore people across the country had lost their jobs during the recent outbreak of COVID-19. The government should help these people to rebuild their lives. The farmers laws enacted by the BJP government would ruin livelihood of farmers and wanted the AIADMK government to oppose the laws in public interest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plea-to-fill-vacant-posts/article33449415.ece
30 December 2020||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||Bridges to be ready by March 2021||The construction of three bridges at Balakrishnapuram here at a cost of Rs. 65 crore would be completed in March 2021, Forests Minister Dindigul C Srinivasan told reporters here on Tuesday. The people had to cross three railway-level crossings to reach the other side of the city but the work could not be completed in time due to various reasons including land acquisition and outbreak of COVID-19. However, the Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami had ordered release of adequate compensation to the owners who had given their land for the project and there could be no more delay. The highways authorities had been instructed to expedite the work. He admitted that only 55 % of the work had been was completed so far. The CPI(M) and other outfits here had voiced their concern over the delay and said the government was indulging in corruption.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bridges-to-be-ready-by-march-2021/article33449426.ece
30 December 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Gani market witnesses low sales||Sales at the weekly retail shops at E.K.M. Abdul Gani Textile Market (Gani Market) was low on Tuesday as the arrival of traders and retail customers was also low. There are 730 weekly markets and 370 shops functioning on the market premises at Panneerselvam Park that are visited by merchants from across the State. Shops at the weekly market start functioning from Monday evening to Tuesday night and brisk business is usually witnessed before festival season. Traders said that after relaxation in COVID-19 norms, Deepavali is the only major festival and their business was good in October and November. They said that due to an increase in the price of yarn, production had dropped leading to less arrival of garments in the market on Tuesday. S. Sakthivel, secretary, Erode Gani Market Weekly Textile Traders’ Association, said that arrival of traders from other districts was also very low on Tuesday while arrival of retail customers was also low. “Sales is expected to be normal for Pongal”, he said and added that traders expect good orders for the Assembly election.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gani-market-witnesses-low-sales/article33449450.ece
30 December 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Erode Collector inspects election preparedness||District Election Officer and Collector C. Kathiravan on Tuesday inspected the Institute of Road Transport Technology (IRTT) at Chithode where counting of votes will take place for the Assembly election 2021. There are eight assembly constituencies in the district that has a total of 19,16,809 electors. After polling, electronic voting machines and other election materials used in the six constituencies of Erode (West), Erode (East), Modakurichi, Perundurai, Bhavani and Anthiyur will be taken to IRTT and kept in strong rooms. Discussion with officials Mr. Kathiravan inspected the counting centre and discussed with the officials on the infrastructure needed for storing EVMs, counting halls and rooms for election officials and counting staff. Issues related to creation of drinking water facility, toilets, power supply and security issues were discussed with officials during the inspection. Erode Revenue Divisional Officer Saibudeen, Erode Tahsildar Parimaladevi and election officers were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/erode-collector-inspects-election-preparedness/article33449447.ece
30 December 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Man sentenced to 20 years for sexual assault||The Fast Track Mahila Court here on Tuesday sentenced a 26-year-old man to undergo 20 years imprisonment for sexual assault of a minor girl. The victim, an 11-year-old-girl, was residing with her parents, who are from West Bengal. On April 12, 2019, the girl fell ill and she informed her parents that Rebul Mandal of the same area had committed the crime on her when they were to work. Her parents lodged a complaint with the All Women Police Station in Erode who registered a case under provisions of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2021 and arrested Rebul Mandal. The judge R. Malathi found him guilty and sentenced him to undergo 20 years imprisonment and imposed a fine of Rs. 5,000. Also, under section 33 (8) of POSCO Act, the judge ordered the State Government to pay compensation of Rs. 3 lakh to the victim from the Victims Compensation Fund.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-sentenced-to-20-years-for-sexual-assault/article33449451.ece
30 December 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||28 foreign returnees test negative||Twenty-eight persons, who returned to the district from various countries, including the United Kingdom, tested COVID-19 negative here on Tuesday. After the emergence of a mutated variant of COVID-19, the Health Department on Monday identified 28 persons, who recently returned from various countries and swab samples were lifted and sent to the laboratory at the Government Erode Medical College and Hospital at Perundurai. On Tuesday, all tested negative and they were asked to be in isolation for 14 days. Officials asked other returnees from foreign nations to come forward and undergo the tests.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/28-foreign-returnees-test-negative/article33449453.ece
30 December 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Plea to resume Yercaud Express train||With the railways resuming most of the train services, the District Congress, has urged Railways to resume operation of the Train No 22650 Erode – Chennai Yercaud Express for the benefit of the commuters. In a letter to the General Manager of Southern Railway, Chennai, K.N. Basha, vice president of the Erode District Congress Minority Wing and former member of Zonal Railway Users’ Consultative Committee, said that it is the only train service that originates from Erode to Chennai and serves commuters in the region. Due to COVID-19, the service was stopped for nine months. However, Yercaud Express, which has not been operated for the nine months now, is yet to resume service. The letter said that people in the region depend on the train to reach Chennai and other destinations. The letter also wanted passenger train services to be resumed between Erode and Coimbatore and from Coimbatore to Salem as it helps working people to move between the cities. The bus fare from Erode to Coimbatore is Rs. 83 whereas it is only Rs. 25 in trains. Since most of the travellers in passenger trains are workers, the railways should take steps to resume the operation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plea-to-resume-yercaud-express-train/article33449454.ece
30 December 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Consumers asked to pay previous month’s electricity bill||Erode South Division, Arachalur sub-division of Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation (Tangedco) has asked its consumers in the following villages to pay their earlier month’s bill amount for the current month. A press release said that due to administrative reasons, meter reading cannot be done by its staff in the offices of Kandasamipalayam Pirivu in Thandampalayam, Molapalayam and Vilankattuvalasu electricity distribution areas. Hence, consumers in Chinna Thandampalayam, Othapanai Kalaignar Nagar, Uzhaippali Nagar, Gandhi Nagar, Unjakattu Valasu and Ramamurthy Nagar were asked to pay their October month’s bill amount for the current month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/consumers-asked-to-pay-previous-months-electricity-bill/article33449448.ece
30 December 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||power shutdown||Power supply will be disrupted from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. on December 30 in the following areas:  South Railway line: Marapalam, Municipal Chatiram, Agrahara Street, Periyar Street, Karavaikal, Valayakarar Street, Cutchery Street, Mandapam Street, VVCR Nagar and Vengadasamy Street.  Karungalpalayam line: Karungalpalayam, Kuyilaan Thoppu, Chinna Mariamman Kovil Street, Kamatchi Amman Kovil Street, Ponnusamy Street, Vetri Nagar, Sai Guru Nagar, Kongu Nagar, Cauvery Road and Muniyappan Nagar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-shutdown/article33449452.ece
30 December 2020||KARAIKUDI,TAMIL NADU||‘BJP-AIADMK tie-up will lead to DMK front’s victory’||The moment the BJP and the AIADMK declared their alliance for the Assembly election, it was a given that the DMK-led alliance would emerge victorious, senior Congress leader P. Chidambaram said in Karaikudi on Tuesday. Addressing party workers, he said the country’s democratic sheen had been taken off with the BJP at the helm. There was no freedom of speech in Parliament. People who were critical of the government were ill-treated and jailed, Mr. Chidambaram added. The Centre’s Rs. 6,000 financial assistance scheme had not reached eligible farmers, Mr. Chidambaram said. Only the 100-day MGNREGS, launched by the UPA government, had helped the poor. About 13 crore people had lost jobs due to the pandemic. There seems to be no tangible steps taken by the Centre, he added. The Congress leader welcomed MNM president Kamal Haasan’s remark that the need of the hour was not ‘Vel’ yatra by the BJP in Tamil Nadu, but “ Velai ” (jobs) yatra. Migrating in search of jobs was not a good sign. This only reflected the poor governance of those ruling the nation. A Central Minister recently stated that Prime Minister Narendra Modi would not listen to anyone. “This is wrong and not a good attitude,” he said. According to him, the Kerala model of electing a new set of leaders to rule the State every five years was good. The people would benefit considerably. Many industries had come up, and jobs were guaranteed there.  ‘An alternative’ On these lines, Tamil Nadu should also switch to an alternative and the time was ripe for the DMK alliance, he said. On the farmers’ protest, Mr. Chidambaram said the farmers did not seek any amendments to the farm legislation. The government, instead of listening to the grievances, was dictating to the stakeholders. The democratic fabric of the nation had taken a severe beating under the BJP rule, he said.  About 13 crore had lost jobs due to COVID-19. There seems to be no tangible steps taken by the Centre||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bjp-aiadmk-tie-up-will-lead-to-dmk-fronts-victory/article33449435.ece
30 December 2020||KOVILPATTI,TAMIL NADU||Exam dates for Class 10, 12 to be announced soon||The dates for conducting the 2021 public examinations for Classes 10 and 12 would be made known soon, School Education Minister K.A. Sengottaiyan said here on Tuesday. Speaking to presspersons, he said with the Assembly election scheduled to be held in Tamil Nadu around May 2021, the Election Commission (EC) would be giving the dates for the same soon. “Depending on the dates given by the EC, the timetable for the public examinations would be made known,” he said. On the dates for the conduct of practical examinations for Class 12 students, he said it would be announced in about 10 days. With regard to the annual examinations for students from Class 1 to 9, Mr. Sengottaiyan said due to the COVID-19 pandemic and the resulting lockdown, the total number of classes to be held during each term could not be achieved. “We will take a decision on this shortly in consultation with experts in the field,” he added. The Minister was here to hand over renewal certificates of recognition to 358 primary/nursery schools from Thoothukudi, Tirunelveli, Tenkasi, Kanniyakumari and Virudhunagar districts. Instead of the schools reaching out to the School Education Department to collect their renewal certificates, issued once in three years, the government had reached out to the schools, he said.  Due to the COVID-19 pandemic and the resulting lockdown, the total number of classes to be held during each term could not be achieved||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/exam-dates-for-class-10-12-to-be-announced-soon-minister/article33449412.ece
30 December 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Work on operation theatre complex gains momentum||The construction of an integrated operation theatre complex at Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH), which was approved in 2016, is finally gaining momentum. This complex, which will have state-of-the-art operation theatres, will give a major infrastructure boost to GRH. The Rs. 325-crore worth theatre complex is funded by Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA). The operation theatre complex will be constructed by demolishing a portion of the main building of the GRH which houses the Dean’s chamber. An official incharge of the project said that preliminary works for demolishing the buildings commenced last Saturday. "Full fledged demolition work will begin from January. It will take around 18 months to complete the construction of the complex," he added. Departments like Ophthalmology and Dermatology, and the doctors’ quarters which were earlier functioning at these buildings, have now been relocated ahead of the demolition. Dean J. Sangumani said that the facade and the building that house the Dean’s chamber will not be demolished. The operation theatre complex, which will have advanced medical equipment and infrastructure, will help to provide better care to the patients, said Dr. Sangumani. "The operation theatres that are currently being used were constructed several years back. The construction of the new operation theatre complex will help to handle the rising influx of patients and attenders at GRH," he said. The official said that the complex will have six floors apart from the ground floor. The original plan was to construct the new integrated operation theatre complex by demolishing the GRH auditorium and the old operation theatre complex. However, the plan was rejected citing inadequate availability of infrastructure, said the official. A senior doctor, requesting anonymity, said that a section of doctors had initially opposed the current plan of constructing the new operation theatre complex in the main complex as the place was already congested. "However, the portion of the main complex which will be demolished now, was in a dilapidated condition. The roofs were leaky during rainy season. So, it was then decided to construct the new operation theatre complex by demolishing the dilapidated portion of the main building," he said. Tamil Nadu Government Doctors' Association president K. Senthil said that officials have accepted to demolish the GRH auditorium and old operation theatre complex to construct a parking facility using the JICA funds. "This will be undertaken after the completion of the new operation theatre complex," he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/work-on-operation-theatre-complex-gains-momentum/article33449963.ece
30 December 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Seven hillocks around Arittapatti serve as safe home for birds||Arittapatti in Melur block, which the Tamil Nadu Biodiversity Board (TNBB) has proposed to declare a ‘Biodiversity Heritage Site’ (BHS), is surrounded by seven hillocks. The hillocks are not only a major source of water, but also home to about 250 species of birds with a high ratio of raptors (birds of prey). The three important raptors among them are Laggar Falcon, Shaheen Falcon and Bonelli’s Eagle. A. Ravichandran, who heads ‘Ezhumalai Pathukappu Sangam’, which spearheaded the protest against granite sharks and strives to protect the hillocks from their commercial exploitation, calls Lagger Falcon as ‘Aiya’. “Arittapatti is said to be the only place in South India where Laggar Falcon can be spotted,” he says. Shaheen Falcons, which can travel up to 300 km per hour, has made the hillocks of Arittapatti their home. Bonneli’s Eagle, Indian Spotted Eagle, Booted Eagle, Shikra, White-eyed Buzzard, Indian Eagle Owl and Short-toed Snake Eagle are some of the bird species spotted in this region, he says. The availability of sufficient water, food and place of stay has made Arittapatti a haven for raptors and other bird species, says Mr. Ravichandran. “For instance, Short-toed snake eagles mainly feed on snakes, which indicate the presence of snakes in the region. The villagers also do not pollute the environment with plastic waste, which makes the hillocks ideal places of stay for the birds,” he says. Mr. Ravichandran says that the birds augment agricultural wealth in Arittapatti by enriching the waterbodies with their droppings which are used to irrigate farmlands. District Forest Officer S. Anand says that the place has rich flora. “There are many traditional practitioners of medicine at Arittapatti who use the plants growing in this region. They act as protectors of natural resources,” he adds. Arittapatti is also known for its Jain vestiges, a Pandya-era rock-cut temple for Lord Siva with a rare sculpture of Lakulisa, a prominentShaiviterevivalist, reformist and preceptor of the doctrine of thePashupatas. C. Murugeswari, a resident of Arittapatti who is also a member of ‘Ezhumalai Pathukappu Sangam’, says the residents consider the hillocks as sacred. “They are keen on protecting the hillocks, water sources and the archaeological sites,” she says. ( Concluded )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/seven-hillocks-around-arittapatti-serve-as-safe-home-for-birds/article33449958.ece
30 December 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Case against man for cheating on money doubling promise||Mathichiyam police have picked up one G. Paldurai, Sivagiri, for interrogation after one M. Puthattan (50) 0f Tirunelveli district accused him of cheating him of Rs. 20 lakh on the promise of doubling money. The police said that Paldurai had invited Puthattan to a hotel near Anna Bus stand and had taken Rs. 20 lakh on December 12 on the promise of doubling the money. Again he had asked an additional Rs. 5 lakh from him for doubling. However, Puthattan, along with two of his friends, on Monday caught the accused and seized Rs. 12.50 lakh from him and handed him over to the Mathichiyam police. A case of cheating has been registered against Paldurai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/case-against-man-for-cheating-on-money-doubling-promise/article33449960.ece
30 December 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Elderly women robbed||In a daring robbery, four unidentified persons broke into a house at Outpost in Tallakulam and robbed two aged women of 27 sovereigns of jewels and Rs. 85,000 after immobilising them in the early hours of Sunday. The police said that T. Saroja (66), who was living with her mother Kamalam in the house on Azhagarkoil Road, was shocked to find four persons inside her bedroom at around 3 a.m. The masked men had gained entry into the house by breaking open the rear door. They tied both the mother and daughter using saris and gagged their mouth. Later, they snatched the gold ornaments and the money from an almirah. The women managed to free themselves and lodged a complaint on Monday with the Tallakulam police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/elderly-women-robbed/article33449419.ece
30 December 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Rs. 15.20 lakh missing from TNSTC office||Daily collection of Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation to the tune of Rs. 15.20 lakh kept in the chest at its Ellis Nagar Branch has gone missing. Its Branch Manager, K. Rajasekar, has lodged a complaint with the S.S. Colony police suspecting the role of three cashiers who had handled the money. The daily collection from 54 buses operated by the Ellis Nagar Branch is usually kept in the chest in the cashier room and next day the money is deposited in the local branch of a nationalised bank. However, in view of the holidays on three consecutive days from December 25 to 27, the collection money from December 24 to 27 was kept in the chest. When the chest was audited by the employees on Sunday afternoon, Rs. 15.20 lakh was found in-tact then. However, when the chest was opened on Monday morning, the cash was missing, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rs-1520-lakh-missing-from-tnstc-office/article33449965.ece
30 December 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||New set of judges for High Court Bench||A new of judges will preside over the court proceedings in the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court from January 4, 2021. Justice M.M. Sundresh will be the administrative judge of the High Court Bench for the next three months. A Division Bench of Justices M.M. Sundresh and S. Ananthi will hear public interest litigation petitions and writ appeals from the year 2018 onwards. A Division Bench of Justices M. Duraiswamy and S. Kannammal will hear writ appeals up to the year 2017. A Division Bench of Justices T. Raja and G. Ilangovan will hear habeas corpus petitions, criminal appeals and other criminal cases to be heard by a division bench. The other judges deputed to the High Court Bench for the three months are Justice Pushpa Sathyanarayana, Justice K. Kalyanasundaram, Justice R. Subramanian, Justice J. Nisha Banu, Justice M.S. Ramesh, Justice N. Sathish Kumar, Justice G.R. Swaminathan, Justice M. Dhandapani, Justice R. Tharani, Justice T. Krishnavalli, Justice M. Nirmal Kumar and Justice K. Murali Shankar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-judges-for-high-court-bench/article33449964.ece
30 December 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Efforts on for free and fair poll, says Observer||Sigy Thomas Vaidhyan, who was appointed as the electoral roll observer of the district, and Collector T. Anbalagan held a meeting regarding the electoral rolls with the representatives of recognised political parties, here on Tuesday. Ms. Vaidhyan told the representatives that the district administration was taking all efforts to conduct a free and fair election. The political party representatives said that the option of postal ballot for the elderly voters aged above 80 must be cancelled. Instead, separate rooms or facilities can be arranged in polling booths for the elderly voters, they said. They asked the district administration if the names of voters added to the electoral roll during the special revision camps would be shared with the booth agents of political parties. The representatives also urged the district administration to ensure that in booths where the number of voters exceeded 1,000, the excess voters must be accommodated in different rooms of the same polling station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/efforts-on-for-free-and-fair-poll-says-observer/article33449418.ece
30 December 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Family seeks help to trace missing man in Malaysia||Family members of a 36-year-old man from Kamarajapuram here, who was working in Malaysia, submitted a petition to the Collector here on Tuesday, seeking help to trace his whereabouts. S. Boominathan was working at a plantation in Malaysia, said his father V. Sappani. Mr. Boominathan was initially working in a hotel and only recently he started working in the plantation, he added. "However, it has been 87 days since we spoke to my son," said Mr. Sappani. "When we tried contacting my son through numerous people, they told us that my son was at a prison," he added. M. Senthoor Pandian, a relative of Mr. Boominathan, had mailed to the Ministry of External Affairs seeking information about Mr. Boominathan. "A reply from the Ministry told us that he was not in prison," said Mr. Pandian. Against this backdrop, the family received a photo a couple of days back in which Mr. Boominathan was badly injured. "We do not know if he is alive or dead," said Mr. Sappani.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/family-seeks-help-to-trace-missing-man-in-malaysia/article33449959.ece
30 December 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Ayyappa Seva Sangam offers annadhanam||The volunteers of the Ayyappa Seva Sangam had served annadhanam to about 45,000 Ayyappa devotees who had visited the Sabarimala shrine during the mandala puja, said the Sangam office-bearers here on Monday. In a press release, the media coordinator P. Mani said that 7,823 devotees were benefitted through the first-aid offered by the Seva Sangam. Service of five oxygen parlours and four stretcher was also useful to the needy devotees. A total of 282 seva volunteers were deployed during the mandala season at the shrine. With the covid-19 pandemic, the number of annadhanam count had fallen from four lakh last year to a meagre 45,000 this season. The Seva Sangam had arranged for a free vehicle check up camp at Nilakkal. Senior citizens wishing to offer "nei abishekam" for the deity at Sabarimala may offer the same at the Ayyappa temple in Kallanthiri, Madurai district, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ayyappa-seva-sangam-offers-annadhanam/article33449961.ece
30 December 2020||MAYILADUTHURAI,TAMIL NADU||Govt. employee, scrap dealer arrested||A government employee in the office of the District Education Officer, Mayiladuthurai was arrested on Monday for attempting to sell a stock of text books to a scrap dealer. Acting on information, a team of Revenue Department officials raided the shop of the scrap dealer Perumalsamy and confiscated thousands of text books of various subjects supplied by the School Education Department for free distribution to students of government and aided schools during 2019-20. The textbooks had apparently been diverted to the shop from storage points. Based on a complaint lodged by the Revenue team, Mayiladuthurai police registered a case and arrested Meganathan, Junior Assistant at the DEO Office, Mayiladuthurai, and also the scrap dealer. On Tuesday, the School Education Department placed Meganathan under suspension.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-employee-scrap-dealer-arrested/article33449391.ece
30 December 2020||NAGAPATTINAM,TAMIL NADU||Kamal Haasan sees political awakening among people in State||Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM) founder Kamal Haasan on Tuesday said he was able to see a political awakening among the people in the State. Seeking an opportunity to eradicate corruption in governance, Mr. Haasan, campaigning in Nagapattinam, promised computers and internet connectivity to every household if voted to power in the 2021 Assembly election. He said he was overwhelmed by the turnout of people despite rain or shine. The MNM would work for the representation of fishers in the Assembly. It would have an area-specific election manifesto to fulfil long-pending local issues. “We are serious about fulfilling MNM’s promise of remuneration for homemakers, if only our hands are strengthened.” The gaps in governance were visible in the shortcomings in health, education and public distribution, despite the huge budgetary allocations. Tamil Nadu had the dubious distinction of being a front-ranking State in crime against women, lock-up deaths and opening of liquor shops, he claimed. The State was under subjugation of the ruling dispensation at the Centre, the actor-politician alleged. According to him, poverty was being perpetuated by unscrupulous leaders for deriving political benefits. By condoning perpetrators of sexual crime, the rulers were sending a wrong signal, he said, seeking to know the follow-up action taken by the Police Department in cases of grave sexual crimes in Pollachi, Madurai and Thoothukudi. Mr. Haasan said a section of political leaders taunting his film background did not seem to realise that they were mocking the founding leaders of their own parties. After Kamaraj, all top leaders came from film backgrounds, he pointed out. While he did not expect any response from rival political leaders for his revelation about the bribe rate card, the absence of decorum was conspicuously felt in their political speeches. The MNM, on its part, did not believe in revenge politics, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kamal-haasan-sees-political-awakening-among-people-in-state/article33449841.ece
30 December 2020||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Stalin spreading false information on Pongal gift: Palaniswami||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Tuesday said the Pongal cash gift scheme had received an overwhelming response from the people, and hence, DMK president M.K. Stalin was spreading false information that AIADMK cadre were involved in door-to-door distribution of tokens for collecting the gift. At a reception organised by the AIADMK at Attayampatti in Namakkal, Mr. Palaniswami said the poor were affected by the COVID-19 pandemic and the government had announced a cash gift of Rs. 2,500 and a hamper for all rice cardholders. “He is making charges because the scheme has evoked an overwhelming response from people and the AIADMK will earn a good name,” he said. The CM said the government had distributed Rs. 1,000 to cardholders last year, but the DMK had gone to court to stop the scheme. The party did not like schemes to promote public welfare, he said. “Only to ensure that the affected people celebrate Pongal happily has the government announced the cash gift [this year],” he said.  ‘MGR, Jayalalithaa’s dreams’ He said former Chief Ministers M.G. Ramachandran and Jayalalithaa had always wanted the poor to lead a happy life, and the present government was fulfilling their dream by giving out cash gifts. He appealed to people to vote for the ‘two leaves’ symbol in the Assembly election. Mr. Palaniswami offered prayers at Anjaneyar Temple in Namakkal and launched the party’s campaign titled, ‘Vetrinadai Podum Tamizhagam’. Later, addressed cadre at Rasipuram, Tiruchengodu and Kumarapalayam. Besides, he conducted a road show as well. Mr. Palaniswami said that 41% students studied in government schools while only six students got admitted to medical courses last year. “To fulfill the dreams of students, 7.5% reservation was introduced and 313 students were admitted this year which will be increased to 443 seats next year,” he added. He said that 70,000 RT-PCR tests were done every day in the State that helped control the spread of COVID-19. “Even Prime Minister had appreciated the State for its efforts in controlling the spread of the virus”, he said. While the AIADMK was known for giving to the people, the was known for taking away from the people, he accused and alleged that land grabbing happened only during the DMK rule. State Ministers P. Thangamani, Dr. V. Saroja and M.R. Vijayabaskar were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pongal-gift-cm-accuses-stalin-of-spreading-false-information/article33449385.ece
30 December 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||U.T. registers two deaths, 42 new COVID-19 cases||The Union Territory registered two COVID-19 deaths and 42 new cases on Tuesday. A 40-year-old person and a 64 year-old-person succumbed to the virus at the Indira Gandhi Government General Hospital and Research Institute. Both the patients died due to co-morbidities, a release from the Health Department said. The death toll has gone up to 633. The region recorded 42 new cases from 3,589 tests conducted. Of the total new admissions, 28 are from Puducherry, 9 from Karaikal, 3 from Mahe and 2 from Yanam. The active cases now stand at 363. While 158 infected patients are undergoing treatment at various government hospitals, 205 are under home quarantine. The number of patients tested for the virus has reached4,78,398.A total of 38,070 people got infected in the Union Territory since the outbreak of the pandemic, data revealed.  15 cases in Cuddalore The COVID-19 toll in Cuddalore district rose to 283 after one more person succumbed to the virus on Tuesday, while 15 fresh cases took the overall tally to 24,642. According to a bulletin from the Health Department, an 81-year-old man from Neyveli succumbed at a private hospital in Tiruchi. With 24,239 persons having been discharged, the active cases in the district stand at 91. In Villupuram district, eight persons tested positive, taking the total to 14,970. Kallakurichi district reported three positive cases, taking the overall count to 10,798.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-deaths-42-new-covid-19-cases-in-ut/article33449374.ece
30 December 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Second round of allotment of medical seats likely to be notified today||Of the 309 MBBS seats under the government quota, 287 got filled in the first round of allotment in the Indira Gandhi Government Medical College and Research Institute (IGGMC&RI) and three private medical colleges in Puducherry. In the first round, 136 seats were allotted out of the total 142 at the IGGMC & RI. There are 8 seats up for grabs in the second round at the government medical college as only 134 got admitted in the first round. There are 7 seats under the government quota vacant at Sri Manakula Vinayakar Medical College and Hospital (SMVMC&H), 4 in Sri Venkateswara Medical College and Research Institute (SVMC &RI) and 3 in the Pondicherry Institute of Medical Sciences (PIMS), data available with the Centac revealed. The vacancy included SC, ST and EWS quota. There were no SC candidates from Mahe, ST candidates from the Union Territory and EWS candidates from the Karikal region, said an official who is part of the admission process. In the first round of admissions, of the total 22 NRI seats available at the IGGMC &RI, only 3 admissions were done. NRI seats Also, of the 60 NRI seats available at the three medical colleges, 52 were vacant after the first round. Similarly, 73 management quota, 71 management quota (Christian) and 75 management quota (Telugu) seats are vacant after the first round of admissions. Normally, for MQ (C) and MQ (T) categories, there are very few candidates and they would be finally pooled into the central quota, the official said. As far as the first round of admission for BDS courses is concerned, only 32 got admitted of the total 115 seats under the government quota. All the MQ (C) and MQ (T) under the BDS category are vacant after the first round, data revealed. The official said the second round of allotment is likely to be notified on Wednesday.  As far as the first round of admission for BDS courses was concerned, only 32 got admitted of the total 115 seats under government quota official||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/second-round-of-allotment-of-medical-seats-likely-to-be-notified-today/article33450047.ece
30 December 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK wants New Year celebrations on Beach Road banned||The All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam on Tuesday reiterated its demand for a ban on New Year celebrations on Beach Road. Addressing a press conference, AIADMK leader in the Assembly and party secretary (East wing) A. Anbalagan said the government allowed celebrations on the beach as it was not concerned about the lives of the people. The Centre has given clear instructions on the steps to be taken to prevent the spread of the novel coronavirus, he said. Modalities sought He urged the Lt. Governor to give directions to the District Collector and senior police officers to chalk out modalities for New Year celebrations. Mr. Anbalagan also criticised the Chief Minister for his remark that the Centre was trying to merge Puducherry with Tamil Nadu. The CM was trying to spread wrong information that the Centre was trying for the merger of the Union Territory, he added. He reiterated the demand for providing Rs. 2,500 to the people as Pongal gift as was being done in Tamil Nadu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-wants-new-year-celebrations-on-beach-road-banned/article33450045.ece
30 December 2020||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||Youth sentenced to death for rape, murder||The mahila court in Pudukottai on Tuesday awarded the death penalty to a 25-year-old youth who was held guilty of raping and killing a seven-year-old girl at Embal village in the district. The crime was committed in June this year. The girl belonged to a Scheduled Caste group. The court held that this was a “rarest of the rare case” and that it warranted capital punishment. The accused, M. Samivel, alias Raja, who belonged to the same village as that of the girl, was held guilty on three counts of murder and aggravated penetrative sexual assault under provisions of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. The girl went missing on June 30 and was later found dead with injuries on her body on a dry waterbody near her house. The post-mortem revealed that the girl was raped. Following an investigation, the police arrested Samivel, who lived near the girl’s house and would play with her often. The prosecution said he raped the girl and when she began to scream, he hit her with a wooden log on the head. The Embal police have booked cases under various Sections of the IPC, including 364 (kidnapping or abducting in order to murder), 376 (rape) and 302 (murder) read with Sections 5(M), 5(J)(IV) and with Section 6(1) of the POCSO Act and Section 3(2)(V) of the SC/ST Act. Days after his arrest, Samivel had escaped from the Pudukottai Medical College Hospital, where he was admitted for medical tests. He was subsequently rearrested and a separate case was registered in this connection. He was later detained under the Goondas Act on the orders of the District Collector. The chargesheet in the case was filed in September and 18 prosecution witnesses were examined. The court awarded the death penalty to Samivel under IPC Section 302 (murder); Section 5(M) read with 6(1) of the POCSO (Amendment) Act, 2019; and under Section 5 (J)(IV) read with 6(1) of the POCSO (Amendment) Act, 2019. It also sentenced him to undergo life sentence under IPC Section 302 read with Section 3(2)(V) of the SC/ST Act, 1989. The court awarded a compensation of Rs. 5 lakh to the girl’s mother.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/youth-sentenced-to-death-for-rape-murder-of-7-year-old/article33449413.ece
30 December 2020||PUDUKOTTAI/ MAYILADUTHURAI,TAMIL NADU||Central team inspects crop damage in Pudukottai, Mayiladuthurai districts||An eight member Central team on Tuesday inspected areas affected by heavy rainfall caused by cyclone Burevi in Pudukottai and Mayiladuthurai districts. The team started off by visiting affected areas in Tiruvarangulam block in Pudukottai district to get a first-hand account of the extent of damage to crops due to the inundation of fields following heavy rain triggered by the cyclone. Accompanied by Commissioner of Revenue Administration K. Phanindra Reddy and Collector P. Uma Maheswari, the team inspected the damage caused to paddy crops at Nambukuzhi village in Kathakurichi panchayat. The team went to Dakshinapuram village where they inspected the damaged corn crop. They heard in detail from farmers and officials regarding the extent of damage caused to crops. The team members were also explained about the damage by way of a photo exhibition. The team consisted of Ashutosh Agnihotri, Joint Secretary, Ministry of Home Affairs; Manoharan, Director of Oilseed Development, Ministry of Agriculture; Rananjay Singh, Regional Officer, Ministry of Road Transport and Highways; Amit Kumar, Deputy Director, Ministry of Finance; Shubham Garg, Assistant Director, Central Electricity Authority; Mohit Ram, Assistant Commissioner, Ministry of Rural Development; Dr. Paul Pandian, Fisheries Development Commissioner; and J. Harsha, Director, Central Water Commission. Later in the day, the team headed to Mayiladuthurai district for inspection of affected paddy fields at Nalladai near Sembanarkovil and Thirumailadi near Kollidam. The team was escorted to the affected areas by Additional Director of Agriculture P. Sankaralingam, Collector R. Lalitha and the Nagapattinam Collector Praveen P. Nair. According to a presentation made by Joint Director of Agriculture, Nagapattinam, P. Kalyanasundram and Deputy Director Paneerselvam, paddy crop on about 15,000 hectares was damaged in Nalladai and about 11,000 hectares in Thirumailadi. The team was also apprised of the damage caused to horticulture crops in 60 hectares in Kollidam and surroundings. Paddy crop on about 62% of the cultivated area in Nagapattinam and Mayiladuthurai districts were damaged due to inundation caused by the heavy rainfall, Mr. Kalyanasundaram told the members of the Central team.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/central-team-inspects-crop-damage-in-pudukottai-mayiladuthurai-districts/article33449411.ece
30 December 2020||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Central team inspects damaged boats, paddy crops in Pamban||An eight-member committee from the Central government inspected the damaged boats, paddy and chilli crops in and around Pamban near Rameswaram here on Tuesday. Following the Cyclone Burevi, which hit the coastal areas in many parts of southern districts in Tamil Nadu a fortnight ago, the State government had appealed to the Union government to provide relief. As a first step, a Central team arrived here from New Delhi for an on-the-spot-inspection. The district administration presented a power-point presentation about the extent of damages and displayed photographs taken for the team. Accompanied by TN Commissioner (Revenue Administration) Phanindra Reddy, Collector Dinesh Ponraj Oliver, the Central team members including Asuthosh Agnihotri (Joint Secretary, Home Ministry), Dr. Manoharan (Director, Oil Seed Development, Agriculture Ministry), Rananjay Singh (Road Transport and Highways), Amit Kumar (Deputy Director, Finance), Shubam Garg (Assistant Director, Central Electricity Authority), Mohit Ram (Assistant Commissioner, Ministry of Rural Development), Dr. Paul Pandian (Fisheries Development Commissioner) and J Harsha, Director, Central Water Commission, went to the Kundagal fish landing centre. According to Mr. Phanindra Reddy, 27 mechanised boats and 34 country boats were damaged. Farmers who had raised paddy and chilli, reported loss due to water logging. Inspection by the officials concerned showed that 78 hectares had been damaged due to the rainfall. The enumeration showed that 125 homes were partly damaged and another 22 fully damaged in the wake of continuous rain. The State government disbursed Rs. 6.22 lakh as compensation to victims and another Rs. 30,000 to owners of 10 cattle which were killed during the cyclone. Based on reports from the State government, the quantum of compensation would be decided and recommended to the Centre. The Union government would sanction funds thereafter, a member of the team said. The Central team interacted with some fishermen and farmers. Later, it proceeded to delta districts, officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/central-team-inspects-damaged-boats-paddy-crops-in-pamban/article33449424.ece
30 December 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||‘81 projects at various stages of implementation under Smart Cities Mission project in Salem’||As many as 81 projects worth Rs. 965 crore are being implemented in Salem under the Smart Cities Mission project. Speaking to reporters after inspecting multi-purpose hall constructed near Thoongum poonga recently, Salem Corporation Commissioner N. Ravichandran said that about 22 works have been completed and the remaining projects are progressing at a steady pace. Mr. Ravichandran along with senior officials reviewed facilities at the multi-purpose hall constructed by civic body under the Smart Cities Mission that was inaugurated by Chief Minister Edappadi K.Palaniswami during his recent visit to Salem recently. Mr. Ravichandran said, “the multi-purpose hall, constructed at a cost of Rs. 10.5 crore, has a capacity for 1,000 persons, including a spacious dining area. The charges of the hall would be less than private halls.” He said that the roads that were dug for underground drainage works and laying pipelines would be relaid once the works are over. He said that works for a water treatment plant at Pachapatti is progressing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/81-projects-at-various-stages-of-implementation-under-smart-cities-mission-project-in-salem/article33449460.ece
30 December 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Science Park opened to public||The Science Park constructed by the Salem Corporation near Palapatti was inaugurated recently. The park, constructed at a cost of Rs. 5.8 crore, was aimed at improving the scientific temper of students. The park has been set up on 13,000 sq.ft. According to Corporation officials, the park has exhibits on hygienic practices, replicas of GSLVs, PSLVs rocket launchers and extinct animals like dinosaurs. A 30-seat planetarium, radio device that operates using solar energy, gear trains and 18 other exhibits have also been displayed, besides innovation hub to engage students in scientific innovations. Salem Corporation Commissioner N. Ravichandran said, “the park has been set up under the Smart Cities Mission so that school students could learn and perform various scientific experiments here. Charge not fixed The centre was opened to the public, however charges are yet to be fixed.”  Students can learn and perform various scientific experiments here  N. Ravichandran Salem Corporation Commissioner||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/science-park-opened-to-public/article33449465.ece
30 December 2020||SIVAGANGA,TAMIL NADU||Improper release of water deplored||Farmers from Manamadurai block have blamed the PWD for improper release of water from the Vaigai to the tail-end areas. They said that the PWD had promised to provide 45 cusecs of water but hardly 15 cusecs of water reached the tail-end areas so far. Officials did not remove encroachments from channels despite repeated requests to do so. It had led to a dry situation, they said. Farmers from Illayankudi block deplored that water logging in their fields, where they had cultivated chilli and paddy, led to total loss. A farmer from Muthuramalingapuram said that some villages in the block had no water for the past five years so that they could not undertake farming activity. They raised crops this year on 500 hectares in Salaigramam and other nearby pockets in view of good rainfall. When standing crops were waiting for harvest, the Cyclone Burevi caused continuous rain in the area. Water logging in the field led to damage of crops. To inspect crops Farmers submitted a memorandum to the Collector P. Madhusudan Reddy, who promised to inspect the damaged fields soon and take suitable action. Meanwhile, PWD engineers said that the water for irrigation to Manamadurai block was being supplied on turn basis. Tanks and ‘ooranis’ in the block were desilted under the ‘kudimaramathu’ scheme, they pointed out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/improper-release-of-water-deplored/article33449416.ece
30 December 2020||SIVAGANGA,TAMIL NADU||Commercial complex coming up||Collector P Madhusudan Reddy has instructed officials to give more space for women self-help groups in the proposed commercial complex coming up at Manamadurai block for weekly shandy. Such steps would help these women SHGs enhance the income of their families, he said after inspecting the site where 180 outlets, a commercial complex and an integrated sanitary complex were being constructed at a cost of Rs. 2.50 crore. Women could be encouraged to sell clothes, cosmetics and other goods also apart from vegetables. He urged the officials concerned to ensure quality and deliver the facilities in time. He also asked the Town Panchayat officials to check the functioning of street lights, clear garbage periodically and provide potable water.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/commercial-complex-coming-up/article33449421.ece
30 December 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||TASMAC move opposed||The Mahalir Aayam, women’s wing of Thamizh Desiya Periyakkam, has opposed TASMAC’s proposal to reopen bars in the State. In a statement on Tuesday, its president M. Lakshmi Ammal condemned the State government for encouraging such proposals with a view to improving its revenue and said the move would ruin society.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tasmac-move-opposed/article33449382.ece
30 December 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||111 fresh positive cases, three deaths in central region||The central districts reported 111 new cases of COVID-19 and three deaths on Tuesday. According to a bulletin issued by the Health Department, the maximum number of fresh cases was reported in Thanjavur district with 32 patients testing positive for the virus. It was followed by Tiruchi and Nagapattinam districts with 22 fresh cases each. Tiruvarur and Karur districts registered 12 cases each. Perambalur and Ariyalur had no fresh cases. The day’s count in Pudukottai was 11. A total of 96 patients were discharged from various hospitals in central districts. Tiruchi district topped the list with 21 discharges followed by 19 in Tiruvarur, 17 in Karur and 16 in Thanjavur. The medical bulletin recorded the death of three persons to the COVID-19 virus infection in the central districts on Tuesday. All of them were from Tiruchi district. A 74-year-old patient, who had been under treatment for diabetics and hypertension for a few years, died due to the COVID-19 complications on December 25. He was admitted to a private hospital on December 22 with the complaints of fever, cold and difficulty in breathing. The second patient, who died of COVID-19 pneumonia in Tiruchi, was 70-year-old. He too had complications of diabetic mellitus and hypertension. He was admitted to a private hospital on December 4 and died on December 20. A 79-year-old woman, who was admitted to a private hospital in Tiruchi on November 21 with complaints of cough and difficulty in breathing, died on December 6 due to COVID-19 pneumonia. She was under treatment for hypertension for a few years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/111-fresh-positive-cases-three-deaths-in-central-region/article33449394.ece
30 December 2020||TIRUPPUR,TAMIL NADU||Youth attacks woman, attempts suicide||A youth attacked a woman with a blade and attempted suicide within the Tiruppur City Police limits on Tuesday. The police said Venkatesh (27) was allegedly in a relationship with a 21-year-old woman. During a verbal altercation on Tuesday, he slashed her neck with a blade and attempted to slit his neck. Both were admitted to a private hospital and their condition was stable, the police said. Case registered The Tiruppur South police registered a case against Venkatesh under sections 294(b) (Uttering obscenities), 324 (Voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapons or means) and 506(2) (Punishment for criminal intimidation).  (Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/youth-attacks-woman-attempts-suicide/article33449443.ece
30 December 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Planting season begins for flower show in Ooty||The Nilgiris District Collector J. Innocent Divya inaugurated the planting season in preparation for the 124th Flower Show at the Government Botanical Garden in Udhagamandalam on Monday. In a press release, the district administration stated that the annual flower show in 2020, which was scheduled to be the 124th Flower Show, had to be cancelled due to the COVID-19 pandemic. However, it was hoped that the flower show would be held once again in May of 2021. The 124th Flower Show would feature plants grown using 290 varieties of seeds imported from Japan, Germany and the Netherlands. Plants brought to the Nilgiris from different parts of India would also be on show that would feature more than five lakh plants, the Collector said. Ms. Divya said over 15,000 plants would be arranged in the viewing galleries at the botanical garden for the season, for visitors to enjoy. Also present at the event was Sivasubramaniam Samraj, Joint Director of Horticulture.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/planting-season-begins-for-flower-show-in-ooty/article33449446.ece
30 December 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||NMR services to resume from Dec. 31||The Salem Division of Southern Railways has announced resumption of train services along the Nilgiri Mountain Railway (NMR) line starting from December 31. In a press release, the railways announced that the entire Mettupalayam to Udhagamandalam section would resume. The services had been suspended since March 20 due to the COVID-19 pandemic. “Upon resumption, the NMR services will be operated as fully reserved special trains,” the release said. One pair of fully reserved special train would run between Mettupalayam and Udhagamandalam and three pairs would run between Coonoor and Udhagamandalam. The railways stated that all COVID-19 safety protocols would be enforced. The same fare structure that was in force prior to the pandemic would continue. Only passengers who had reserved tickets would be allowed to board the trains and advance booking had been opened.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nmr-services-to-resume-from-dec-31/article33449444.ece
30 December 2020||VILLUPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Cab driver arrested under POCSO Act||The Villupuram All Women Police Station (AWPS) on Tuesday arrested a 30-year-old cab driver under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act on charges of sexually assaulting a 16-year-old girl and impregnating her. Police said the accused V. Pushparaj of Thiruvennainallur was a relative of the victim. He sexually assaulted her repeatedly on the promise of marrying her. The crime came to light when the girl and her mother went to a government hospital for a check-up, and she was found to be two months pregnant. Based on a complaint from the girl’s mother, the police arrested Pushparaj. A case was booked against him under Sections 5 (i) 5 (ii) and 6 of the POCSO Act. He was produced before a local court and remanded to custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cab-driver-arrested-under-pocso-act/article33450049.ece
30 December 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||VAO held on graft charge||Sleuths of the Directorate Vigilance and Anti-corruption on Tuesday arrested village administrative officer of W. Pudupatti SivaRamalingam, 51, on the charge of demanding and accepting Rs. 3,000 as bribe. According to sources, Sivaramalingam reportedly demanded Rs. 6,000 as bribe from S. Mahendran, 42, of the same village for processing his application. Mahendran applied on December 15 for patta name transfer of the land which he inherited from his father who had passed away. Later Sivaramalingam accepted to process the application on payment of Rs. 3000. Based on a complaint from Mahendran sleuths from DVAC, led by Deputy Superintendent of Police, Karuppiah laid a trap and caught the VAO while accepting the money at his office in W. Pudupatti.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vao-held-on-graft-charge/article33449422.ece
30 December 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Applications invited||Applications are invited from visually challenged and hearing impaired college students, unemployed youth and entrepreneurs to get free mobile phones from Department of Differently abled Welfare. A press release said that those who had completed 18 years were eligible. Eligible persons should produce their national identity card, ration card, Aadhar card, certificate from colleges and two passport size photographs at the District Differently-abled Welfare Office, Virudhunagar Collectorate by post or in person by 5 p.m. on January 8, 2021.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/applications-invited/article33449428.ece
30 December 2020||December 30 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Daily caseload falls below 90 mark in Coimbatore district||Salem district reported 34 cases, taking the district’s tally to 31,523. While 38 persons were discharged, 364 persons continue to be under treatment. Erode district reported 34 new cases, taking the district’s tally to 13,606. While 36 persons were discharged, 272 persons continue to be under treatment. One person died, raising the toll in the district to 144. Namakkal district reported 19 cases, taking the district’s tally to 11,159. Thirty-one persons were discharged, while 166 persons continue to be under treatment. One person died, raising the death toll in the district to 109. Krishnagiri district recorded 12 cases As many as 110 were active cases and the overall tally stood at 7,859 cases. Eight persons were discharged on Tuesday. Dharmapuri recorded nine fresh cases and four discharges. The number of active cases stood at 75 cases and the overall tally was 6,387 cases. Coimbatore district saw a decline in its daily COVID-19 caseload as only 81 new cases were reported on Tuesday. The district’s overall tally now stands at 52,155 cases. Two men, aged 46 and 76, died during treatment, taking the district’s toll to 648. The Health Department said that 834 were active cases. On Tuesday, 92 patients were discharged upon recovery from the disease. Tiruppur district reported 38 fresh cases on Tuesday, taking its overall tally to 16,984 cases. No deaths were reported in the district. As many as 332 were active cases. Tiruppur district has reported 215 deaths so far. On Tuesday, 54 patients were discharged. In the Nilgiris, 15 people tested positive for the disease on Tuesday. With the latest infections, the total number of confirmed COVID-19 cases in the district stood at 7,917. Meanwhile, the District Collector said that while two persons who came from the U.K. and one of their contacts had tested positive for the mutant strain of COVID-19, 109 persons who had returned from African countries and 82 of their contacts were also tested but the results returned negative.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/salem-erode-report-34-cases/article33449463.ece
30 December 2020||December 30 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Civic body floats tender to revamp sewerage network||In what could bring about a major relief to frequent malfunctioning of the underground drainage system in the city, Tiruchi Corporation has decided to revamp the existing sewerage network at an estimate of Rs. 167 crore. The project will be implemented under Smart City initiative. The civic body received clearance from the Commissionerate of Municipal Administration for the project recently and has floated a tender. Corporation Commissioner S. Sivasubramanian told The Hindu that it had been proposed to complete the scheme within three years from the date of award of contract. It would address the long-pending issue of frequent disruptions in the functioning of the existing underground network, which was laid in 1987. It was found that the sewage mains for several metres were damaged. Similarly, several chambers and manholes and connecting pipes had worn out, thereby causing burst in manholes and pipes frequently. Though the Corporation had set up an exclusive unit with septic tankers to clear the overflowing sewage and to carry out repairs and maintenance, Mr. Sivasubrmanian said the number of faults had gone up in recent years. In some cases, it took a long time to set right the issues. Hence, it had been decided to revamp the existing network. The scheme had been prepared by employing a team to study problematic and vulnerable spots and the works to be done. It had listed out the length of UGD mains, manholes, chambers and others to be replaced. Mr. Sivasubramaian said the sewer line to a length of 210 km and pumping line to a length of 6.2 km would be replaced. Seven lifting stations would be revamped. The areas chosen for the scheme include Thillai Nagar, Chathiram Bus Stand, Rockfort and a part of Woraiyur. The revamping scheme would cover 18 wards fully and 14 wards partially. Some of the pumping stations would also be revamped. The revamping scheme would address malfunctioning of the network in Cantonment, Central Bus Stand, Bheema Nagar, Thillai Nagar and others. Most of the areas chosen for the project were in the erstwhile Tiruchi municipality limits. Similarly, Mr. Sivasubramaian said, it had been decided to construct a sewage treatment plant at Panjappur on the outskirts of the city. It would have a capacity to treat 7.5 million litres of sewage a day. A tender for the project had been called for and Rs. 11.25 crore allotted for it. It would be completed within two years from the date of award of contract.  It will address the long-pending issue of frequent disruptions in the functioning of the existing network S. Sivasubramanian Commissioner, Tiruchi Corporation||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/civic-body-floats-tender-to-revamp-sewerage-network/article33449388.ece
30 December 2020||December 30 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Retiring rooms reopen||Nine months after they were closed, the retiring rooms at Tiruchi junction have reopened to passengers. The retiring rooms were reopened recently and COVID-19 guidelines were being adhered to, a senior official of Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) here said. IRCTC has also reopened the Tourism Information and Facilitation Centre at the junction. All passengers availing the retiring rooms will be subjected to thermal scanning. Hand sanitisers have been kept at the reception. The IRCTC retiring rooms were given a facelift and opened after renovation in September 2019. There are different types of AC rooms such as deluxe, super deluxe, suites, cabin (dormitory), deluxe family and dormitories. They were closed for rail passengers on March 22 when the nationwide lockdown was clamped in view of COVID-19 spread. Bonafide railway passengers are allowed a short stay ranging from three to 48 hours. Prior to COVID-19, nearly 80% bookings to avail the facility were done online. Online bookings can be done through IRCTC official websitehttp://www.rr.irc tctourism.com The official said the Tourism Information and Facilitation Centre will function in the lobby of the Retiring Room to facilitate rail tourism bookings for Bharat Darshan and other train-related packages; air ticket bookings; customised tours in trains to visit temples and other tourism spots; hotel bookings and marketing of rail based tour packages.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/retiring-rooms-reopen/article33449390.ece
30 December 2020||December 30 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Awakening for political change visible: Kamal||Makkal Needhi Maiam founder Kamal Haasan on Tuesday said he was able to see an awakening for political change among the people of the State. He was campaigning here for the coming Assembly election. Seeking an opportunity to eradicate corruption in governance, Mr. Kamal Haasan promised computers and internet connectivity to every household. He said he was overwhelmed by the turnout of the people in rain and sunshine. The MNM would work for representation of fishers in the Assembly. It would have area-specific election manifesto to fulfil long-pending local issues. “We are serious about fulfilling MNM’s promise of remuneration for home makers, if only our hands are strengthened.” The gaps in governance was visible in the shortcomings in health, education and public distribution despite the huge budgetary allocations. Tamil Nadu had the dubious distinction of being a front-ranking State in crime against women, lock-up deaths, and opening of liquor shops. The State was under subjugation of the ruling dispensation at the Centre, the actor-politician said. Poverty was being perpetuated by design by unscrupulous leaders for deriving political benefits. By condoning perpetrators of sexual crime, the rulers were sending wrong signals, he said, seeking to know the follow-up action taken by the police department in cases of grave sexual crimes in Pollachi, Madurai and Tuticorin, despite the portfolio being handled by none other than the Chief Minister. Mr. Kamal Haasan said a section of political leaders taunting his film background did not seem to realise that they were mocking at the founding leaders of their own parties for after Kamaraj, all top-leaders came from film background. While he did not expect any response from rival political leaders for his revelation about the bribe rate card, the absence of decorum was conspicuously felt in their political speeches. The MNM, on its part, did not believe in revenge politics, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/awakening-for-political-change-visible-among-people-of-the-state-says-kamal-haasan/article33449409.ece
30 December 2020||December 30 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Deploy fair price shop staff to distribute tokens: DMK||The Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) has urged the Coimbatore district administration to distribute tokens for Pongal goodies using government employees. In a petition to the administration, the party’s Coimbatore east district unit in-charge S. Senathipathi said that the AIADMK workers were engaged in distribution of the tokens to 10.09 lakh families that were attached to 1,495 fair price shops. And, the tokens had the photographs of Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, Municipal Administration Minister S.P. Velumani and were printed in AIADMK colours. The colours should be removed as it was the State Government that distributed the tokens and the distribution should be done using fair price shop employees, he demanded. Member of Parliament, Pollachi, K. Shanmuga Sundaram, Coimbatore west urban unit in-charge Paiya Gounder alias A. Krishnan and a few other leaders were present while presenting the petition to the administration. In Tiruppur, representatives from the Opposition parties petitioned Tiruppur District Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan to initiate action against the alleged distribution of tokens by the AIADMK functionaries in the district. The petitioners also warned of protests if no action was taken by the District Administration in this regard.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/deploy-fair-price-shop-staff-to-distribute-tokens-dmk/article33449852.ece
30 December 2020||December 30 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Special puja||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/special-puja/article33449431.ece
30 December 2020||December 30 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Aged man reunited with family||Subramaniam, 98, of Illupur hamlet in Nagapattinam district, who left his daughter’s house at Manojipatti near Thanjavur a week ago, was reunited with his family on Tuesday. The senior citizen was found unconscious in a deserted Public Works Department building on Court Road on December 25 and taken to Thanjavur Medical College Hospital for treatment. As he could only spell out his name and native village, Social Welfare Department officials and Red Cross Society members contacted their counterparts in Nagapattinam district and ascertained that the old man lived with his daughter at Manojipatti. Subsequently, he was handed over to his daughter at Manojipatti on Tuesday after he responded well to treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aged-man-reunited-with-family/article33449387.ece
30 December 2020||December 30 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore Today||Thiruvenkatavan Charitable Society : Margazhi prayers, Sri Venugopala Perumal and Sri Kalyana Venkatesa Perumal Temple, Kovaipudur, 5.20 a.m.; “Ra Pathu” utsavam, 6.30 p.m.  KPR Institute of Engineering and Technology: Signing of MoU with Azerbaijan State Oil and Industry University, Primrose, KPRIET, 2 p.m.  New Century Book House : Book exhibition, Nehru Stadium, 9.30 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-today/article33449857.ece
30 December 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Serious probe sought into Dharme Gowda’s death||KPCC working president Satish Jarkiholi has demanded a probe into the death of Legislative Council Vice-Chairman S.L. Dharme Gowda. The State government should order a serious inquiry into the death of Dharme Gowda. There are reports of a death note left behind by the Janata Dal (Secular) leader. The government should clarify what is in the reported death note. The government should not play politics over the issue. There is no need to link the Congress with the death of Dharme Gowda, he said. “It is unfair to do so. There is no link between the ruckus in the Legislative Council to his death. No body should link the suicide with the Congress, its activities or its leaders,” Mr. Jarkiholi said. He was responding to questions from journalists at his home office. “It is being said that he ended his life out of despair. If that is so, it is very unfortunate. But that should be decided only after a serious probe,” he said. People in positions of power and responsibility should not behave like that. That will send an unfavourable message to the public, the Congress leader said. Bypoll To a question on the probable candidates for the Belagavi Lok Sabha bypoll, he said that the party had finalised only two names. “My name was doing the rounds among the probable candidates, but now I don’t know if it is still under consideration,’’ he said. The party will take a final decision soon, he said. He said that the decision to fight the Belagavi City Corporation polls on the basis of party symbols would be taken on December 31, he said. KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar has constituted a committee for the purpose. That committee will hold a meeting in Bengaluru on Thursday, he said. He said that the State government and the district administration should resolve the controversy created by some Kannada activists unfurling the Kannada flag in front of the Belagavi City Corporation office. “The government should resolve the issue without creating unnecessary problems,” he said. ‘Double standards’ On Monday, Mr. Jarkiholi said that theBJP-led NDA government at the Centre is following double standards. On the one hand, it bans cow slaughter and cattle meet transport and trade and, on the other, India’s beef exports have reached an all-time high when the BJP is in power, he said. Speaking to party workers as part of Congress foundation day celebrations in Gokak, he said that anyone who looks at this scenario is bound to feel that the BJP is banning cow slaughter only to make Muslims look like villains, while it is silently promoting beef exports by a few corporates that are its friends. He complained that all that the BJP leaders were good in was in making speeches. “Has the BJP built one dam anywhere in the country?’’ he asked. “Congress leaders Jawaharlal Nehru and Indira Gandhi built the country for seven decades by giving it infrastructure, educational institutions, starting public sector undertakings and instilling values of secularism and multi-culturalism. But the BJP has undone all the gains in just seven years,’’ he said. He asked workers to work at the grassroots level to strengthen the party.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/serious-probe-sought-into-dharme-gowdas-death/article33449483.ece
30 December 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Siddaramaiah has gone off track, says Yatnal||MLA and BJP leader Basanagouda Patil Yatnal has criticised the former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah for his remark against anti-cow slaughter Bill and the freedom of food choices. “For some reason, Mr. Siddaramaiah has gone off track. He goes around claiming that he eats beef and no one should question him. He seems to think that he will get votes only by insulting Hindus. Does he think that he can rely on a small group to win the elections? Let us see how he wins the next elections without the support of the Hindus,” Mr. Yatnal said. He was speaking to journalists in Vijayapura on Tuesday . He said that Rahul Gandhi’s non-participation in the Congress foundation day function due to his overseas visit was not a matter worth commenting upon. “In fact, [Mr.] Rahul Gandhi himself is not worth commenting upon. He is half mad. He is a buffoon. Leave alone be a Member of Parliament, he is not fit to guard cars in front of Parliament building. It is a tragedy that the media refers to him as a national leader,” Mr. Yatnal said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/siddaramaiah-has-gone-off-track-says-yatnal/article33449485.ece
30 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||New strain of virus: Contact tracing efforts stepped up||With three persons who have come to the city from the United Kingdom confirmed to have the new variant of the coronavirus, said to be more virulent and contagious, the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has said that it has stepped up contact tracing and isolating the primary and secondary contacts. BBMP’s Special Commissioner (Health) Rajendra Cholan told The Hindu that thus far, the civic body had tested as many as 1,480 persons who returned to the city from the U.K.. Of these, 16 positive for the new strain. Samples have been sent for further tests and confirmation, he said. He also said that 48 primary contacts of those who had tested positive had been traced, some of them family members. As per the Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) issued by the MHA, he said that primary contacts have to undergo institutional quarantine, where their health and other parameters may be monitored. Mr. Cholan said that those who travelled with the three persons on the same flight from the U.K. would also be deemed primary contacts. The three infected travelled to the city from the U.K. on December 19. “We know who sat near the three persons. They will also be tested and monitored,” he said, and added that the details of all these persons had been shared with the zones concerned. Earlier, the civic body was blamed for the explosion of COVID-19 cases in the city as a result of ineffective contact tracing. The Special Commissioner, however, maintained that there were more human and and resources on the field now, actively involved in contact tracing. Though he claimed that contact tracing had been stepped up, according to the bulletin issued by the BBMP on Monday (December 28), of the 1,594 travellers from U.K., the civic body was yet to trace 212 persons. As many as 718 were from outside Bengaluru, including 64 duplications in data. Of the 16 who have tested positive, four are from Bommanahalli zone, one is from Dasarahalli, two from East, five from Mahadevapura, three from West and one from South zone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/new-strain-of-virus-contact-tracing-efforts-stepped-up/article33449496.ece
30 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||New Year’s eve to be quiet affair||With the police announcing several restrictions, including prohibiting gathering of more than five people on the road and on events, shows or programmes, New Year’s eve is set to be an unusually subdued affair this year. While many Bengalureans may be planning to head out for dinner or drinks, others intend to celebrate at home or out of the city. Jayna Kothari, senior advocate, along with her family, is in Goa. “We wanted to get away but we didn’t want to stay in a hotel or resort because of safety issues. Since a friend offered the use of his house, we decided to come to Goa. We have just been going to the beach and relaxing. New Year’s eve is also going to be like that. Actually, a lot of people from Bengaluru are here. So, we might meet a few others and have a nice, quiet time.” However, the pandemic hasn’t led to a drastic change in the plans of Ramya Maiyya, who works in an MNC. “I’m never too adventurous with my New Year’s eve plans. It’s usually with friends from my apartment, getting together in someone’s house over food and drinks.” Teacher Nivedh Jayanth and lawyer Anita Abraham are also looking at celebrating with smaller groups this year. “As of now, I am inviting over a friend and plan to open a bottle of champagne. I haven’t yet made plans to have a party by inviting more people,” says Ms. Abraham. Mr. Jayanth adds, “I’m going to just chill with a couple of friends and celebrate over food and drinks. There’s a very high possibility that we’ll end up playing Settlers of Catan.” While hotels, restaurants and pubs are not allowed to hold any special events, they are allowed to carry out business as usual. Mukesh Tolani, director and co-founder, Toit, said, “We are offering some special food [the Christmas menu is for the whole month] and cocktails. But other than that, it’s going to be a regular service night for us. There’s no DJ, no dancing allowed. As per the guidelines, people have to book in advance. There will be a fully redeemable cover charge of Rs. 1,000 per head.” Ranveer Sabhani, Business Head, south India, Impresario, which runs Social and Smoke House Deli, adds, “We will take it as any other day. We are going to write off 2020 from our books and our thoughts.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/new-years-eve-to-be-quiet-affair/article33449811.ece
30 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Random genetic sequencing recommended to determine if new strain is in circulation||With the new variant of SARS-CoV-2 circulating in the United Kingdom since September 2020, there is a possibility that the new strain could have already been imported into Karnataka. To determine if the new strain is already present in the State, there is a need to conduct genome sequencing of random samples that tested positive in October-November, experts have said. With the State not having witnessed a surge in cases in the last two months, experts said this could be because nearly 50% of the population is already exposed to COVID-19 here and hence there could have been cross immunity. When the State’s first round of the seroprevalence survey was done in September, 27.3% of the population in the State had been exposed to the virus. This would have increased to over 50% now, according to experts. Giridhar R. Babu, member of the State’s COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee (TAC), said random samples should be subjected to genetic sequencing. “A travel ban will only prevent the people from currently travelling and infecting here. We need to be sure that there are no major outbreaks missed anywhere in the State since September 2020 due to an import of infection. A sample of the cases should be subjected to genetic sequencing,” he said. “Although it is unlikely that we may see a surge again, it is important to thwart the outbreaks in early stages. It seems mostly that the new strain is unable to find dense pockets of susceptible (uninfected) people. We need to be sure by testing random samples from all districts which have shown an active surge in cases,” he explained. National strategy V. Ravi, former head of the department of Neurovirology at NIMHANS, said as very few labs store samples of positive cases beyond two-three months, genome sequencing of U.K. returnees who had tested positive since September can be done. “The national strategy now is to conduct genome sequencing of 5% random samples of international passengers who have tested positive since November 23. Epidemiological surveillance of the passengers, who have arrived in India since November 23 will also be conducted in the community through active follow up,” he said. “The mutant strain more or less has the same features. While the precautions, symptoms, treatment protocol and virulence are the same, the new strain has a high transmissibility/infectivity. People will have to behave even more responsibly,” he said. Cross immunity C.N. Manjunath, nodal officer for labs and testing in the State’s COVID-19 task force, said nearly 50% of the population has already been exposed to SARS-CoV-2 actively or passively. “As a result, half the population in the State has developed immunity and this is bound to give protection against the new strain too,” he said. “Various vaccine manufacturers and even the World Health Organisation (WHO) has said that the current vaccines being developed can effectively counter this mutation. If the vaccines can work against the new strain, then community immunity should also give protection,” he explained. “As genome sequencing is expensive, it is not possible to test all samples. Instead, random samples of those who tested positive in the last two months should be subjected to this molecular test. This will help in knowing if the new strain is already here. If it is already there, we do not have to worry much,” Dr. Manjunath added.  Although it is unlikely that we may see a surge again, it is important to thwart the outbreaks in early stages. It seems mostly that the new strain is unable to find dense pockets of susceptible (uninfected) people. We need to be sure by testing random samples from all districts which have shown an active surge in cases. Giridhar R. Babu  member, State’s COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/random-genetic-sequencing-recommended-to-determine-if-new-strain-is-in-circulation/article33449498.ece
30 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Officer who exposed alleged irregularities in BU relieved of her post||The Finance Officer (FO) who had pointed out irregularities in the management of finances of Bangalore University was relieved of her post on Monday evening. K.R. Venugopal, Vice Chancellor of Bangalore University, issued an order relieving Parvathi H.B. from her post as Finance Officer, and asking her to report to her parent department – State Audit and Accounts Department – with immediate effect. Independent audit Ms. Parvathi had conducted an independent audit, which had revealed several discrepancies, including the bank balance reported in the books of accounts not depicting the actual position of the bank balances held by the university. In addition, the university allowed some branches to maintain books of accounts and bank accounts separately, and the transactions with respect to these institutions have not been included in the financial transactions of the university, it says. The report notes that while the balance as per the books of account is a credit balance of Rs. 59.36 crore, verification of bank reconciliation statement shows that the university issued cheques to the extent of Rs. 61.31 crore, but parties have not presented the same in banks. It says that the university overspent Rs. 35 crore on salary grants and that the university had incurred financial loss of Rs. 56.68 lakh as the funds were not credited within the time limit. This report was submitted to the Vice Chancellor on December 15. The Vice Chancellor reportedly wrote to the State Audit and Accounts Department to transfer Ms. Parvathi, but relieved her from the post before getting a reply from the department. Her parent department has written to the Vice Chancellor stating that she should continue as Finance officer and the Vice Chancellor’s order was against the order of the State government. Bangalore University authorities stated that she would continue as Finance Officer based on the orders of the government. “The Vice Chancellor transferred her as the teaching and non-teaching staff wanted her transferred,” a source in the varsity alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/officer-who-exposed-alleged-irregularities-in-bu-relieved-of-her-post/article33449813.ece
30 December 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘Agricultural sector performed well’||Agriculture sector has performed exceptionally well and remained the backbone of the economy during and after the lockdown, said the Executive Director of Canara Bank Manimekhalai. Speaking at the 152nd meeting of SLBC at Vidhana Soudha on Monday Manimekhalai said economic activities during the period were normal except schools and colleges and large-scale social gatherings. She said that banks in the State, despite various issues, have already reached out to and delivered all the relief measures. Further, she added that the initiative of the government of Karnataka on cyber crimes and financial fraud was appreciable and SOP (standard operating procedure) have already been circulated to all banks for suggestions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/agricultural-sector-performed-well/article33449812.ece
30 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Traffic restrictions in CBD areas||Bengaluru city traffic police has restricted vehicle movement in and around MG Road from 8 p.m. on December 31 till 2 a.m. on January 1 as part of the ‘no-man’s zone’ plan under the prohibitory orders imposed to ensure strict implementation of COVID-19 guidelines. Except vehicles of essential and emergency services, vehicle movement has been restricted on MG road, Brigade road, Church Street, Museum road, Rest House Park road, and Residency road. The restrictions have been imposed as there is a possibility of crowd gathering in CBD areas despite prohibitory orders and motorists going on joy rides, Kamal Pant, city Police commissioner, said. Flyovers across the city will be shut down from 10 p.m. on December 31 to 6 a.m. on January 1. Parking of vehicles has also been banned in the CBD area and also on Indiranagar 100 ft. road. Vehicles coming from Queens Road towards MG Road during this time should take left turn at Anil Kumble circle to proceed on Central Street, BRV junction, and right turn to enter Cubbon Road to reach Webbs Junction to move on MG road. Vehicles coming from Trinity junction towards M.G. Road should take right turn at Webbs junction to reach Manipal Centre and a left to Cubbon road.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/traffic-restrictions-in-cbd-areas/article33449814.ece
30 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Issue of no-confidence motion against Chairman more complicated now’||M.C. Nanaiah, a veteran of the Legislative Council, condoled the death of Deputy Chairman S.L. Dharme Gowda and said it had only complicated the issue of no-confidence motion against the Council Chairman further. “The Deputy Chairman of the Council should preside over the House when a no-confidence motion against the Chairman is moved. Trying to force this was at the root cause of the pandemonium on December 15. But now that the Deputy Chairman’s post has become vacant, the House needs to first elect a Deputy Chairman before taking up the no-confidence motion against the Chairman,” he said. He further said presently only the Chairman was authorised to call for the session and if he doesn’t as requested, the State government has little room. “The State Cabinet can take a decision to prorogue the Upper House, which will give the powers to the Cabinet to legally recommend convening of the House to the Governor,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/issue-of-no-confidence-motion-against-chairman-more-complicated-now/article33449503.ece
30 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Drug racket busted||Continuing their crackdown on drug rackets ahead of new year celebrations, the Sidduguntepalya police busted a drug racket and arrested two peddlers on Tuesday and recovered 214 kg of ganja worth Rs. 65 lakh from them. In another incident, the police arrested two persons from Uttar Pradesh and recovered 600 gm of opium worth Rs. 8 lakh from them. They were caughtwhile trying to sell the drugs on Hosur road, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/drug-racket-busted/article33449809.ece
30 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Two more U.K. returnees test positive||With two more U.K. returnees testing positive on Tuesday, a total of 29 persons have tested positive for COVID-19. Of the 2,127 who returned to Karnataka from the U.K. from December 1 till December 22, 1,903 have been tested. The State on Tuesday reported 662 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total number to 9,17,571. With four deaths, the toll rose to 12,074. This is apart from 19 deaths of patients due to non-COVID-19 reasons. As many as 1,344 persons were discharged on Tuesday, taking the total number of recoveries to 8,93,617. Of the remaining 11,861 active patients, 206 were being monitored in ICUs. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 0.76%, CFR touched 0.6%. Bengaluru Urban reported 370 cases, taking its tally to 3,87,278. With two deaths from Bengaluru, the toll here rose to 4,306. Active cases in Bengaluru reduced to 7,750.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-more-uk-returnees-test-positive/article33449499.ece
30 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||GP polls: Counting of votes today||Counting of votes polled in the elections held to 5,730 gram panchayats across 30 districts in the State will be held on Wednesday. More than 2.22 lakh candidates contested elections for over 82,600 seats. Elections were held in two phases on December 22 and 27 and more than 80% polling was recorded in both phases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/gp-polls-counting-of-votes-today/article33449502.ece
30 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Students surprised by COMEDK exclusive round||Many seat aspirants who had signed up for the Consortium of Medical, Engineering and Dental Colleges of Karnataka (COMEDK) counselling are disappointed over not being able to participate in the exclusive round of counselling, which began on Tuesday. One parent, whose daughter had decided to reject and withdraw the seat obtained in the third round of counselling, said she had done so as she was not aware another round would be held. “If we knew that, we would have opted for the accept-and-freeze option,” he said. Another student, who was allotted a seat in the Medical Electronics branch earlier, said that she was aiming for biotechnology engineering. “There were chances of me getting a seat in biotechnology engineering in the exclusive round. We would have liked to participate in that, if given the option,” the student said. The exclusive round is applicable to candidates who cleared the supplementary board exam of the current year and whose document verification is approved, and those who participated by filling choices and who have not been allotted a seat in any of the earlier rounds. Besides this, those who had opted for accept and freeze in round three, who were allotted a general merit seat, are also eligible. S. Kumar, executive secretary, COMEDK, said this round was being conducted in the interest of candidates who cleared the supplementary exam, so that theydid not have to wait until next year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/students-surprised-by-comedk-exclusive-round/article33449644.ece
30 December 2020||Chikkamagaluru,KARNATAKA||He took part in various public events hours before his death||Hours before the suspected suicide, Legislative Council Deputy Chairman S.L. Dharme Gowda took part in various public programmes and delivered a speech too on Monday. Earlier in the day, he inaugurated a gym by pedalling an indoor cycling bike in Chikkamagaluru, inspiring youths to keep themselves fit and healthy. A few hours later, he was found dead on a railway track near Gunasagar in Kadur taluk. Being a people’s representative, Mr. Dharme Gowda took part in the inauguration of Yuvajanotsava, a youth festival organised by the Department Youth Empowerment and Sports at Kala Bhavana. BJP national general secretary and Chikkamagaluru MLA C.T. Ravi was with him in the programme. Mr. Ravi was shocked to hear the news of his death. “He was active in the programme and nobody could have anticipated he would end his life like this,” said Mr. Ravi. After the programme, Mr. Dharme Gowda returned to his farmhouse near Ayyanakere in Kadur taluk. According to his close associates, he left his house around 4.30 p.m. driving his private car. As he crossed the gate, his driver Dharmaraj got into the car. Mr. Dharme Gowda drove the car up to a petrol station nearby, where Mr. Dharmaraj got behind the wheel. According to the driver, Mr. Dharme Gowda had a telephonic conversation with his associate Hemanth about train timings. Following his instructions, Mr. Dharmaraj drove the car up to Banavara, about 35 km from Sakharayapatna. While returning, Mr. Dharme Gowda asked the driver to stop the vehicle near the railway track at Gunasagar and got down. He left the place instructing the driver to park the vehicle a few yards away and wait for his return. “It was around 6.15 p.m. when we reached Gunasagar. As Mr. Dharme Gowda did not return soon, I informed his personal staff and family members,” the driver told reporters. The police and local people searched for him and found his body on the railway track late in the night. S.L. Bhoje Gowda, MLC and younger brother of Mr. Dharme Gowda, said his brother was deeply hurt by the incidents that happened in the Legislative Council on December 15.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/he-took-part-in-various-public-events-hours-before-his-death/article33449505.ece
30 December 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Temporary structures removed from pavement in Hubballi-Dharwad||In the backdrop of complaints about pavements being encroached upon by shopkeepers and vendors who have set up temporary structures, the Hubballi Dharwad Municipal Corporation (HDMC) on Tuesday carried out an encroachment clearance drive in the central business district of both Hubballi and Dharwad. The encroachment clearance drive which began in the morning was carried out for several hours despite objections by some shopkeepers and street vendors at some places. The drive was carried out in Urgad Bail, Shah Bazaar, Mahatma Gandhi Market, Sarafgatti and adjoining areas in Hubballi and on Azad Park Road, on the stretch from Anjuman College to Civil Hospital and from Jubilee Circle to Bagalkot petrol bunk in Dharwad. The drive was carried out by municipal workers under protection from the Hubballi-Dharwad Police following a direction from Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad Nitesh Patil during an official meeting on Monday. Scores of shops were moved from the encroached area. Aerial projections from shops were also removed. The drive began early in the morning and without deploying any heavy machinery, the civic staff removed the temporary structures. In Dharwad, Assistant Commissioner of Hubballi Dharwad Municipal Corporation R.M. Kulkarni told presspersons that some shopkeepers had encroached upon pavement and constructed temporary structures hindering the movement of pedestrians. Although they were asked to remove the temporary structures, none had complied with the request forcing the municipal corporation to take action, he said. Mr. Kulkarni clarified that as the shopkeepers were running through a rough phase due to the COVID-19 situation, the structures were not demolished using earthmovers. Instead, the civic staff were asked to remove them manually, he said. The municipal staff also removed a few LIDKAR shops in Dharwad and the corporation authorities assured the owners that they would be given space near Kittel College to do their business. As counting of votes in the gram panchayat elections is scheduled to be held on Wednesday, the municipal authorities have decided to resume the clearance drive on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/temporary-structures-removed-from-pavement-in-hubballi-dharwad/article33449489.ece
30 December 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Inspection on Harihar-Devaragudda double railway line completed||Commissioner of Railway Safety (CRS), Southern Circle, A.K. Rai carried out the statutory inspection of the newly laid double line between Harihar and Devaragudda railway stations recently. According to a press release issued by South Western Railway, during the inspection , the curves, points and crossings, level crossing gates, major and minor bridges along the 31-km stretch were checked. The two-day checking began with a motor trolley inspection of the track between Harihar and Ranebennur with Mr. Rai seeing in detail the work on minor and major bridges. At Chalgeri station he checked the safety related signalling works and also passenger amenity works. On the second day, after inspection of passenger amenities for rail users, motor trolley inspection began from Ranebennur station and concluded at Devaragudda railway station. Speed trial at 125 kmph was later conducted between Devaragudda and Chalgeri and the trial passed the water glass challenge. Under the track doubling project, one additional loop line and one additional stabling line and two full length shunting necks have been added at the Harihar station yard. Major yard remodelling work has been completed in the Harihar yard spanning a length of 2.5 km length, the release said. At Devaragudda, two additional running lines have been added and one additional line each at Kumarapatnam, Chalgeri and Ranebennur have also been added under the project. The doubling project also involved construction of high level platforms at Chalgeri, Devaragudda, Harihar and Ranebennur, which have been completed. Four level crossing gates are being closed after the construction of road overbridges and road underbridges in the section. Two new road underbridges at 77 and 82 have also constructed responding to public demand. In the project taken up at a total cost of Rs. 298 crore, an important bridge across the Tungabhadra has been constructed. Senior railway officials C.K. Swami, Rahul Agarwal, Narayan Rao, Srinivas, Shantiram and others accompanied the safety commissioner during the inspection, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/inspection-on-harihar-devaragudda-double-railway-line-completed/article33449481.ece
30 December 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||36 of 37 U.K. returnees test negative||Of the 37 persons who returned to Dharwad district from the United Kingdom, 36 have tested negative for COVID-19. And, the other passenger remains untraceable. According to Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad Nitesh Patil, of the 37, 36 have tested negative. A search is on to trace the remaining passenger whose mobile phone is switched off now. Mr. Patil said that all U.K. returnees were subjected to RT-PCR tests which confirmed that there was no infection in them. He has also appealed to the general public not to show negligence towards COVID-19 guidelines and not to go around crowded places without wearing masks. “Until the vaccine drive is launched, maintaining social distancing and wearing a mask are the sole solutions to keeping safe against the pandemic,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/36-of-37-uk-returnees-test-negative/article33449488.ece
30 December 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Padayatra from Kudalsangama on January 14||Basava Jaya Mruthyunjaya Swami, chief of the Kudalasangama Panchamsali Peetha, would be launching a 500-km-long padayatra from Kudalsangama to Bengaluru in January demanding inclusion of Panchamsali community under 2A category and inclusion of all Lingayat sub-sects in the Central Other Backward Classes (OBCs) list. Addressing presspersons here on Tuesday, the swamiji said that the politically strong Lingayats have had eight Chief Ministers in State, yet Panchamsali community, though the largest sub-caste of Lingayats, had been deprived of socially and economically. Now, the Lingayat community in the State has pinned its hopes on Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, he added. Theswamiji was on a tour to participate in preparatory meetings and discuss with community leaders in all districts prior to organising the padayatra. The padayatra would be launched at Kudalsangama in Bagalkot district on January 14. “Lingayat leaders and community people will join us in all districts; we will walk at least 20 km a day and reach Bengaluru,” the swamiji said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/padayatra-from-kudalsangama-on-january-14/article33449487.ece
30 December 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Man, wife pledge bodies to medical college||A 50-year-old man in Kalaburagi and his wife have pledged their bodies and organs for donation after their death. Arun Kulkarni, an employee in private medical services, and his wife, Vijaylakshmi Jainapur, pledged their bodies and organs to the Department of Anatomy at Mahavedappa Rampure Medical College in Kalaburagi. Veerabhadra Nandyal, Head of the Anatomy Department at MRMC Medical College, said that human cadavers are essential to teach anatomy as well as for research purposes. Scarcity of bodies for medical education and research is felt as such donations are extremely rare. “We cannot use unclaimed bodies for study purposes,” he added. The college is not able to get the number of cadavers needed, which is 15 for each academic session. As per guidelines of the Medical Council of India, about 10 medical students need a cadaver for dissection during their study. “Till now, 360 donors have pledged to donate their bodies and organs to the college. Since 2009, the college has received 32 bodies,” Dr. Nandyal said and added that the Department of Anatomy, MRMC, is educating people on body donation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-wife-pledge-bodies-to-medical-college/article33449486.ece
30 December 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Udupi ready to welcome students to schools||The Udupi district administration has made all preparations for the re-opening of schools and pre-university colleges in the district on January 1, Deputy Commissioner G. Jagadeesha said on Tuesday. Addressing presspersons in Udupi, he said that the Department of Public Instruction in the district has held extensive meetings with the stakeholders to prepare ground for re-opening of schools. The Deputy Commissioner said that students of Class 10 and Class 12 will have regular classes from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m., while students of Class 6 and Class 7 will have them from 10 a.m. to 12.30 p.m. And, those in Class 8 and Class 9 will have classes from 2 p.m. to 4.30 p.m. Students of Class 10 and Class 12 will have regular offline classes in classrooms and students from Class 6 to Class 9 will be part of Vidyagama 2.0 which will be held on school campus in the open, in batches of students not exceeding 20, he said. Schools have been directed to sanitise classrooms and toilets with 1% Sodium Hypochlorite solution to ensure that they don’t become a source of infection, the Deputy Commissioner said. Chief Executive Officer of Udupi Zilla Panchyat Y. Naveen Bhat said that offline classes are voluntary and students may make use of online classes and the educational broadcast on DD Chandana as well. Those willing to attend offline classes will have to get consent letters from their parents. Teachers have been directed to get a COVID-19 negative certificate that is not older than 72 hours from the start of classes, he said and added that this test is not compulsory for students. Classrooms will be sanitised after each use by a batch of students. Every stakeholder on campus will have to wear a mask and teachers have been asked to wear face shields as well. Thermal scanners requisitioned for recent gram panchayat polls will be distributed to schools to check students and teachers for temperature. No student or teacher with COVID-19-like symptoms will be allowed to enter campus, Dr. Bhat said. The Chief Executive Officer said that each school has been asked to reserve a room to isolate such students having COVID-19 symptoms. The Health Department will check such students. Such students will not be allowed to be part of offline classes till their reports clear them. All assembly and sports activities have been banned as per State government guidelines, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/udupi-ready-to-welcome-students-to-schools/article33449979.ece
30 December 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Irregular water supply issue dominates CMC meeting||Complaints over irregular drinking water supply dominated the meeting of Udupi City Municipal council on Tuesday. Councillor from Kunjibettu ward Girish Anchan who raised the matter said that some places in his ward are being supplied water for only six hours against round-the-clock supply of water promised by the city municipality. Saralebettu ward councillor Vijayalakshmi said that about 50 houses in her ward were facing the issue of irregular water supply. In his response, Assistant Executive Engineer Mohan Raj said that his section would look into the distribution issues as Baje and Shiroor dams which supply water to the city have enough storage. Some members said that the pumping capacity from Shiroor dam should be increased to have regular water supply in the city. Udupi MLA K. Raghupati Bhat said that some people from outside the jurisdiction of the municipality are dumping garbage in the city. Hence, the municipality should discuss the matter with the zilla panchayat chief executive officer to prevent it and to have solid waste management plans in the adjacent villages. The gram panchayats should have their own solid waste management systems. Councillor Krishna Rao Kodancha said that littering of waste on the road should be stopped to overcome the street dog menace in the city. People indulging in such acts should be penalised. The municipality’s sterilisation programme to reduce the number of street dogs appears to have had little impact, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/irregular-water-supply-issue-dominates-cmc-meeting/article33449982.ece
30 December 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Coast Guard signs pact with Asian countries for cooperation in maritime search, rescue||Indian Coast Guard Commander for Karnataka Deputy Inspector-General S.B. Venkatesh said here on Tuesday that the Coast Guard has entered into memoranda of understanding with seven Asian countries for cooperation in maritime search and rescue operations. Maritime exercises and training activities are being jointly conducted with these countries regularly. In his opening remarks at a regional level workshop on maritime search and rescue operations organised by the Indian Coast Guard, he said that in addition, search and rescue communication check exercises are being conducted with the Maritime Rescue Co-ordination Centre of Japan, the Philippines, Thailand, Myanmar, Sri Lanka, Indonesia and Vietnam to establish primary means of communication and overcome the language barrier. The Coast Guard also conducts the national beacon exercise wherein the efficacy of the satellite-based search and rescue systems is examined and pre-emptive actions are initiated to ensure optimal efficiency of the satellite beacons and the transmission, reception and relay system. He said that the country has a robust maritime search and rescue system which is flourishing on equitable contributions of all the stakeholders. Though 100 % response to search and rescue incidents has been achieved, there is a lot to be done to ensure saving all lives in each maritime distress incident. Mr. Venkatesh said that given the global shipping industry is responsible for transporting as much as 90 % of world trade, the safety of vessels is critical. He said that the sea trade of the State constituted a significant part of its economic activities and secured for it a niche in the oceanic trade of the western coast of India from the earliest times. Literary and archaeological evidence indicate that the State’s sea trade extended up to Malaysia, Sumatra, Java and Cambodia in the south-east and the Arab countries, Persia and Egypt in the west. The entire search and rescue set-up in the Indian search and rescue region is controlled and co-ordinated by the Indian Coast Guard through maritime rescue co-ordinating centres in Mumbai, Chennai and Port Blair, he said.  Rescue operations He said that the Coast Guard Karnataka has saved 27 lives in sea so far this year. Of these, 24 were rescued on September 11 near Malpe in Udupi, one was evacuated for medical help in Mangaluru on July 31 and two lives were saved during this September’s floods in Udupi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/coast-guard-signs-pact-with-asian-countries-for-cooperation-in-maritime-search-rescue/article33449984.ece
30 December 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||To motivate and help overcome suffering||Udupi Deputy Commissioner G. Jagadeesha said on Tuesday that private bus operators in the district have offered to permit cashless travel through prepaid cards for students. Addressing presspersons in Udupi, he said that buses will continue to offer them travel fare concessions also through such cards. Mr. Jagadeesha said that he has asked the schools and colleges across the district to get rangolis drawn, hang welcome boards and to keep all possible elements in place to decorate school campus and to create a festive atmosphere. It is also to motivate students and to help overcome the suffering undergone during the year due to the COVID-19 situation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/to-motivate-and-help-overcome-suffering/article33449980.ece
30 December 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Man cheats woman of Rs. 13.35 lakh after offering to send her daughter gift||A woman was cheated of Rs. 13.35 lakh by a man who offered her to send a gift to her daughter. According to a complaint filed with Cyber Crime Police Station, Julia Santos received a friend request from Jim Kiya and she accepted it. A few days later, Ms. Santos received a call from Kiya on WhatsApp with the latter offering to send a gift to her daughter. Then Ms. Santos received a call from a man claiming to be a Customs Officer who asked her to send certain amounts on several dates for the release of the gift. A total of Rs. 13.35 lakh was thsu transferred, she said in the complaint.  Booked The Kankanady Police on Monday registered a case against a woman for illegally keeping with her a one-year-old girl child in a house near Capitanio School. The child was in the house for nearly three months. Personnel from Child Line rescued the child and transferred it to the Ramakrishna Vastalyadhama Adoption Centre in Puttur, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-cheats-woman-of-rs-1335-lakh-after-offering-to-send-her-daughter-gift/article33449988.ece
30 December 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||36 London returnees test negative||Udupi Deputy Commissioner G. Jagadeesha said on Tuesday that all 36 persons who returned to Udupi district from London recently have tested negative for COVID-19. As a precautionary measure, all of them are under quarantine for 14 days. The Health Department officials are in touch with them. If they develop any symptoms, they will be tested again. At present, people need not be apprehensive of the London returnees having COVID-19. The Deputy Commissioner said that people should not ignore COVID-19 and should continue to follow social distancing and wear masks. The district administration is imposing fine on those who are not wearing masks when in public places.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/36-london-returnees-test-negative/article33449978.ece
30 December 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Honeybees attack boy in Udupi||Stung by a swarm of honeybees, a boy of Bagalkot origin was admitted to a hospital in Udupi on Tuesday. Sources said that the boy, Pundalika from Chitpady in Udupi city, was injured after honeybees stung him in the neck in the morning. A social worker Ansar Ahmed immediately got him admitted to the district government hospital at Ajjarakad for treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/honeybees-attack-boy-in-udupi/article33449985.ece
30 December 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Man arrested for using cannabis||The Kaup Police arrested Syed (23) of Bengre for allegedly consuming cannabis near Kaup Lighthouse. Syed was arrested after a test at the KMC Gospital, Udupi, showed him positive for cannabis consumption, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-arrested-for-using-cannabis/article33449989.ece
30 December 2020||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Mysuru to get plant to recycle C&D waste within 4 months||The Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) on Tuesday gave its approval for establishing a construction and demolition waste recycling plant in the city. Mayor Tasneem, who was chairing her last council meeting to mark the end of her tenure, said the contract is for 5 years. The agency to implement the works has already been identified but the council members objected to it on the grounds that tenders were not invited for other agencies to bid for the works. However, Mysuru MP Pratap Simha, who attended the meet, pleaded that the agency should be allowed to implement and handle the construction debris which was being dumped in open places and marring the beauty of the city. The members also raised issues pertaining to revenue sharing model but the MP said “Let the agency entrusted with the works take up the project in the interest of the city”. At present the Outer Ring Road has become a dumping yard and is a major eyesore and this should be reclaimed, he added. Later, MCC Health Officer D.G.Nagaraj told The Hindu that the plant will be operated as a PPP model and will have no financial implications for the Corporation. The agency has agreed to commission the plant within 3 to 4 months and will have a capacity to handle at least 100 tonnes per day. Lack of C & D waste and debris recycling plant was one of the factors having a negative bearing on the city in its performance in the Swachh Bharat survey and its implementation will shore up Mysuru’s hygiene quotient.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mysuru-to-get-plant-to-recycle-cd-waste-within-4-months/article33449639.ece
30 December 2020||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Exports of spices cross 7 lakh tonnes in first half of current fiscal||Export of spices from India looked up during the pandemic with the country crossing the 7 lakh tonne mark in the period between April and September 2020. A statement from the Spices Board said export of spices, which had fetched Rs. 12,273.81 crore in the first half of the current fiscal between April and September, had grown by 19% compared to the corresponding period last year. “Chilli, cumin, turmeric, coriander and ginger were the top five most-exported spices from India,” the statement said. Chilli remained the largest exported spice with a shipment of 2.64 lakh tonnes, fetching Rs. 3,605 crores during the period. Cumin came next with a shipment of 1.53 lakh tonnes, valued at Rs. 2,167 crore, registering an increase of 33% and 22% in quantitative and value terms respectively. It was small cardamom, regarded as the Queen of Spices, which recorded the maximum growth in terms of quantity and value. “It contributed to the overall exports during the period, rising 483% in value and 368% in quantity. During the period, 1,900 tonnes of small cardamom, valued at Rs. 329.5 crore, were exported against 405 tonnes valued at Rs. 56.52 crore during the same period last year,” the statement said. The Spices Board claimed that the spices with immunity boosting properties had been in great demand during the pandemic. Turmeric registered agrowth of 42% in quantity with a shipment of 99,000 tonnes, valued at Rs. 858.1 crore, marking an increase of 35% in value terms as compared to the same period last fiscal. Also, a total of 23,700 tonnes of ginger was exported all over the world, registering a growth of 86% over the corresponding period last year. “The export of fenugreek, coriander and other seed spices such as mustard, aniseed, and dill seed grew substantially, contributing to the spices export basket in the period. The export of fenugreek grew by 58% in quantitative and 61% in value terms with a shipment of 17,200 tonnes. Coriander saw an increase of 9% in quantity and 19% in value terms with a shipment of 26,750 tonnes, fetching Rs. 227.32 crore,” the Spices Board said. Nutmeg and mace recorded 49% increase in quantity and 45% increase in value with an export of 1,650 tonnes valued at Rs. 75.5 crore. Value-added spices such as curry powders and pastes remained popular in many countries resulting in an increase in their exports with a shipment of 19,500 tonnes, valued at Rs. 462.12 crore. During the period, a total volume of 4,150 tonnes of celery valued at Rs. 52.4 crore was exported as against 3,260 tonnes valued at Rs. 35.18 crore of last year, registering an increase of 27% in volume and 49% in value. Spice oils and oleoresins along with spices such as tamarind, saffron and others shared a significant part in the spices export basket of April-September 2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/exports-of-spices-cross-7-lakh-tonnes-in-first-half-of-current-fiscal/article33449493.ece
30 December 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Gram panchayat polls: Counting of votes today||The fate of the candidates who contested the elections to Gram Panchayats in Mysuru district will be known on Wednesday with all arrangements in place for the counting of votes. The counting of votes will begin at 8 a.m. and go on till evening. For the polls in Mysuru taluk, the counting of votes will take place at Maharani's College of Commerce and Management on Valmiki Road here. In Mysuru district, 11,000 candidates contested for 250 GPs. The counting of votes will also take place at the Government PU College on Ooty Road in Nanjangud; Vidyodaya Educational Institutions in T.Narsipur (for T.Narsipur taluk); St Joseph’s Educational Institutions in Hunsur (for Hunsur taluk); Government First Grade College in K.R. Nagar (for K.R. Nagar taluk); Pushpa Convent in Periyapatna (for Periyapatna taluk); St. Mary’s High School in H.D. Kote (for H.D. Kote taluk) and First Grade College in Sargur (for polls in Sargur taluk).  The district administration has deployed heavy police bandobust at all the counting centres. . In view of counting of votes, traffic around the counting centre at Maharani’s College on Valmiki Road had been diverted from 6 a.m. to 10 p.m. The police have made alternative routes for the smooth movement of vehicles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/gram-panchayat-polls-counting-of-votes-today/article33449633.ece
30 December 2020||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Waterbodies out of bounds for New Year revellers||The waterbodies in Chamarajanagar district will be out of bounds for new year revellers on December 31 and January 1. Deputy Commissioner of Chamarajanagar M.R. Ravi has issued orders under Karnataka Epidemic Diseases COVID-19 Regulations 2020 and Section 144 (3) of CrPC to prohibit entry of tourists upto a distance of 5 km from Bharachukki waterfalls in Kollegal taluk, Hogenakkal waterfalls in Hanur taluk and Chikkahole-Suvarnavathi reservoir in Chamarajanagar taluk on December 31 and January 1. The curbs have been placed in view of the possibility of a large number of tourists congregating at the waterbodies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/waterbodies-out-of-bounds-for-new-year-revellers/article33449640.ece
30 December 2020||December 30 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Questions on aesthetics and more||This year has been the only time, ever since I have started performing, when I have had no live concerts or performances for eight months at a stretch. I share this experience with thousands of artists across the world. Initially, COVID-19 seemed like a small storm that would pass in a couple of months. Little did we know that it was a giant tsunami that would take over our lives and render us absolutely helpless.  If this was nature’s way of asking us to slow down, it seemed more like a slamming of the brakes. Everything stopped in the performing arts world. Concerts and events were called off, venues were shut down, and projects were cancelled. Meanwhile, the harshest and most visible effect of the  lockdown was on the thousands of migrant labourers left stranded and unsupported, by both the companies and the government. Many artists responded to this and joined volunteer groups in relief work. Also affected were thousands of folk artists and artisans across India. Along with this crisis of existence, there were also questions of performance and aesthetics that we had to find answers to. How does this pandemic change the way performances are done? Who is our audience in a hybrid-performative world? Has the perspective of the audience changed? Is low-key/home production the new normal? Are gadgets now going to take the centre stage in the making of a performance? Will the world be the same ever again for us, who depend so heavily on the gathering of hundreds of people in one space? How do we use or embrace the digital world? How does one now make a living in this altered performing world? We are yet to find clear answers to these questions as the year draws to a close. There were some good things that came out of this gloomy period. There was an effort to reach out, across cities and across countries. An effort to talk, exchange, and collaborate. Extraordinary content was made available online. Theatres such as the National Theatre, Royal Court, and Royal Shakespeare Company put some of their best plays online. Iconic performing artists such as Chick Corea and Zakir Hussain held lessons online. Museums across the world curated online viewing experiences. Many kinds of expensive software and tools were made available for free or at low prices for troubled artists. Experiments that explored new ways of expressing and performing were tried out. Here in India, musicians did online concerts, theatres did online festivals, lockdown films were made with limited resources, and music was created across borders with online collaboration. With the news of a vaccine across the globe, life is trickling back into the veins of the performing world. But the questions remain. What do we make of this altered world? What the pandemic did was to lay bare all the flaws of our society. In this country, it seems like our lack of concern for each other cost more lives than the virus itself. For now, the immediate concerns are to get back to ‘normal’. The questions that will follow need to be attended to seriously. Sociologically and aesthetically, what do we now define as normal?  (M.D. Pallavi is a singer and theatre, television and film actor)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/questions-on-aesthetics-and-more/article33449643.ece
30 December 2020||December 30 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||We are united to seek ST tag for community, say Kuruba leaders||A convention of Kuruba leaders held here on Tuesday resolved to sink their political differences and affiliations to secure ST status for the community. It was attended by Minister for Panchayat Raj and Rural Development K.S. Eshwarappa, A.H.Vishwanath, MLC, religious leaders representing the community and others. But former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah was conspicuous by his absence and had even questioned the need for a convention as the BJP was in power in both the State and the Centre. He had argued on Monday that all it will take is a notification and yet the BJP leaders are organising a ‘struggle’’ and dubbed it as a “RSS conspiracy’’ to divide the community.  This did not go unanswered and Mr. Vishwanath batted for the RSS and said that neither was it a banned organisation nor was it anti-national. Speakers exhorted the community members to cast aside their political differences and work for the common cause. Mr. Eshwarappa aired his dilemma over joining the struggle and said that he always believed and espoused the cause of Hindutva. But the religious leaders allayed all apprehensions and pointed out that Kurubas were also Hindus and his joining the struggle would not amount to being antithetical to his political ideology or views, said Mr. Eshwarappa. No role for RSS He refuted suggestions that RSS had a role in organising the conventionor was behind the agitation to secure ST tag for Kurubas. “There are people who have asked me to resign as Minister and join the struggle but I wish to stay in the Cabinet and send a message to the leadership of the genuineness of the demand’’, said Mr. Eshwarappa. Sri Eshwaranandapuri of Hosadurga Mutt said the struggle to secure ST status for Kurubas has gained momentum and will gain traction irrespective of anyone not joining it. He vowed to take out a padayatra from Kaginele to Bengaluru in support of the demand. Mr. Vishwanath said reservation helped the rise of Valmiki community which has now 15 legislators and 3 MPs as their representatives and similar status was due for Kurubas as well for the community’s socio-economic and political growth.  Siddaramaiah sees it as a “RSS conspiracy’’ to divide the community.  Religious heads made me change my mind and support the cause, says Eshwarappa.  Reservation necessary for the community’s socio-economic and political growth: A.H. Vishwanath.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/we-are-united-to-seek-st-tag-for-community-say-kuruba-leaders/article33449635.ece
30 December 2020||December 30 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Adivasis want tribal segments for better governance||Adivasi communities in Mysuru district are bracing to make a case for a separate “tribal segment’’ at the grassroots level so as to ensure devolution of power to the traditional forest-dwelling community. Notwithstanding the recent gram panchayat elections which is celebrated as a strengthening Gram Swaraj and village self-governance, the tribes feel taken for a ride as they are given short shrift in an electoral base that is predominantly non-tribal. Consensus There is a growing consensus that self-governance by the tribal community will bring development to the hamlets as the elected representatives from their community can commiserate with subjects germane to the adivasis better than a non-tribal. M.B. Prabhu, a development activist spearheading the cause of tribal community in Veeranahosahalli and other tribal hamlets, said there was scope to earmark tribal segments based on the population density of the adivasis in Hunsur, Periyapatna and H.D. Kote in Mysuru district. Similar tribal-dominated constituencies could be identified in Chamarajanagar, Kodagu and other parts of the State with sizeable adivasi presence and these constituencies could be reserved for the adivasis, he added. Meeting planned Taking the concept forward, Development through Education (DEED), an NGO working for tribal development, will convene a meeting of adivasi community leaders in the first week of January 2021 to put forward their demand for a new reserved tribal segment. S. Sreekanth of DEED said that in the just-concluded GP polls, the tribal communities had no say though some of them contested which only served to divide the community votes. “Adivasis feel betrayed that the non-tribal candidates tend to get elected in local body elections and the latter can neither comprehend the issues affecting the tribals nor do they empathise with them’’, he added. Notwithstanding years of local body polls, the condition of the adivasis has not improved and hence there is a growing consensus in favour of “tribal self-rule’’ in areas with significant adivasi population, according to Mr. Sreekanth. These issues will be discussed in the next month’s convention and a resolution will be passed to seek declare a separate tribal segment so that even adivasis have a stake in democratic and decision-making process, Mr. Sreekanth added. The community leaders believe Kakanakote, Sollepura, Doddbairanakuppe, Anthasante, N.Belthur, Bheemanahalli, Hanur, Neralekuppe, Doddahejjur, Rangaiahnakoppal, and Gurupura were a few constituencies that has the potential to be declared as tribal segments and reserved exclusively for adivasi candidates in the GP elections. Mr. Prabhu said the adivasis hope to see a semblance of development if their voice was heard by someone from the community. There is a perception that adivasis can relate to burning issues related to forest rights act, employment through national rural livelihood mission, upgrading the ashram schools etc., - subjects that never gain traction as electoral issues or catch the imagination of the ‘mainstream’ candidates and voters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/adivasis-want-tribal-segments-for-better-governance/article33449632.ece
30 December 2020||December 30 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||519 SJCE students get job placements despite pandemic||JSS Science and Technology University (JSS S and T), Mysuru has said that 101 companies offered 519 job opportunities to its students between August and December 2020. University Registrar S.A. Dhanaraj said the university campus attracted many companies for recruitment despite the COVID-19 pandemic. The Registrar was speaking at a function organised to welcome the newly-admitted students to Sri Jayachamarajendra College of Engineering (SJCE), a constituent college of the University, here on Monday. Vice-chancellor (acting) Siddaramaiah, the Registrar, and Principal S.B. Kivade welcomed the students online. A total of 700 students joined the induction programme from all branches of B.E. and BCA. Mr. Dhanaraj introduced research facilities, learning centres and the autonomy of syllabus and courses offered to the students on the occasion. The week-long induction programme is designed to empower students on life skills, personality development, Indian culture and tradition, healthy lifestyle and career prospects and other developmental aspects, a release said here. Speakers from renowned industries and achievers will be addressing the newcomers to enlighten them on becoming successful technical graduates and great human beings. The acting VC spoke about the achievements of University in the areas of industry-institute collaboration, entrepreneurship research opportunities, dual degree programmes, and certificate and diploma courses which will be offered to the students in the coming years along with their regular UG programmes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/519-sjce-students-get-job-placements-despite-pandemic/article33449636.ece
30 December 2020||December 30 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Apartment sealed||They questioned the need to be shifted when all of them had tested negative. “The family which tested positive has been in the hospital for over a week. After their result, the complex was sanitised by BBMP and we were all tested. Let them administer another round of tests, but allow us to be at home,” a resident said. Police have been deployed outside the apartment and vigil is being maintained to ensure there is no movement in and out of the sealed off area. BBMP’s Special Commissioner (Health) Rajendra Cholan said, “The residents requested home quarantine. We have decided to put in place the SOPs of quarantine facility in the apartment complex.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/apartment-sealed/article33449815.ece
30 December 2020||December 30 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Three arrested||Three persons were on Tuesday arrested for allegedly being part of a gang involved in 27 chain-snatching cases in and around the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/three-arrested/article33449808.ece
30 December 2020||December 30 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Smart city?||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/smart-city/article33449491.ece
30 December 2020||December 30 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Hard labour||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hard-labour/article33449991.ece
30 December 2020||December 30 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Health matters||standalone photo||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/health-matters/article33449638.ece
30 December 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Tourism in Munnar to go green soon||On the lines of the Vazhikattan Wagamon project, a green tourism project will be implemented in Munnar by the district administration in association with the Haritha Keralam Mission. The heavy tourist inflow puts a lot of stress on Munnar and it is hoped that once the project is implemented, the environmentally sensitive spot could emerge as a major responsible tourism centre with the systematic collection of non-biodegradable waste. Wagamon is known for its green check-posts on all entry points and a user fee is collected from the travellers. Also, at the check-points non-biodegradable wastes are collected from the visitors. The project has succeeded in keeping the hill station free of waste. The hotels and resorts also follow the protocol prescribed by the grama panchayat. Routine checks are conducted at the hotels and resorts and those violating the norms are fined. If a facility is found to be violating the norms regularly, its licence will be suspended. Haritha Keralam Mission district coordinator G.S. Madhu said that initially there were some issues related to the project implementation in Wagamon. After the green check-posts were set up and follow-up action taken, it turned a success. “Now those visiting Wagamon are aware that it is a responsible tourism centre. A major change noticed is that visitors are not throwing waste on the roadside. They know that they are liable to be charged for it and they deposit the wastes in the dustbin,” he said, adding that the keen vigil shown by the local body was a major factor in making the project a success. The Haritha Karma Sena should be active and continuous monitoring of tourists and vehicles was required, he said. A meeting held at the Collectorate recently reviewed the Vazhikattan Wagamon project and held discussions on its implementation in Munnar, the main tourism station in the district. A meeting will be convened by District Collector H. Dinesan in the first week of January to discuss the project implementation in Munnar.  Green corridor There will be a green corridor, green check-posts manned by the Haritha Karma Sena and a green shop to distribute alternative products. A sustainable conservation and waste management project is already under way in Devikulam taluk, comprising eight gramapanchayats including Munnar, under the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP). The Kanan Devan Hills Plantation (KDHP) Ltd. has already discussed the project with the Haritha Keralam Mission, sources said. Mr. Dinesan told The Hindu on Tuesday that the Green Munnar project would take off by the second week of January. The initial work for the project implementation had been discussed, he said.  The Green Munnar project will take off by the second week of January. H. Dinesan District Collector||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tourism-in-munnar-to-go-green-soon/article33449518.ece
30 December 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Ready to field Kappan as UDF candidate: Joseph||Kerala Congress (M) Joseph faction leader P.J. Joseph has expressed his willingness to field Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) representative Mani C. Kappen as the United Democratic Front (UDF) candidate in Pala in the next Assembly elections. The NCP is a partner in the current Left Democratic Front (LDF) government and Mr. Kappen had successfully contested the byelection from the Pala seat defeating the Kerala Congress Jose K. Mani faction candidate. Mr. Joseph told mediapersons here that his party was ready to surrender the Pala seat to the NCP if the latter joined the UDF before the next Assembly elections. “As per the agreement within the UDF, the Kerala Congress will get the Pala Assembly seat. We will be ready to surrender the seat to Mr. Kappen without any condition,” he said. “I hope that the NCP will join UDF and Mr. Kappen will contest in Pala as the UDF candidate,” Mr. Joseph said. No issues with UDF He said that his party had no issue with the UDF.  The UDF missed the Thodupuzha municipal administration owing to the stand of an Indian Union Muslim League counsellor. After contesting the election in the IUML banner, he shifted to the LDF, Mr. Joseph said.  He said the UDF would come to power in the Thodupuzha municipality within a year. “We will move legally and retain the municipality,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ready-to-field-kappan-as-udf-candidate-joseph/article33449579.ece
30 December 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||Women urged to raise their voice against atrocities||Kerala State Women’s Commission Chairperson M.C. Josephine has asked women to raise their voice against the increasing incidents of atrocities against women in the country. Stringent action Addressing an adalat of the commission here on Tuesday, Ms. Josephine said the panel would recommend stringent action against those accused of swindling a huge amount of money from a group of women by posing themselves as human rights activists. 64 cases As many as 64 cases came before the commission. Of these, 11 cases were settled, while 11 cases were postponed to the next sitting of the panel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/women-urged-to-raise-their-voice-against-atrocities/article33449529.ece
30 December 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||New Registrar takes charge at KVASU||P. Sudheer Babu , former dean, College of Dairy Science and Technology, Mannuthy, took charge as the Registrar of the Kerala Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (KVASU) here on Tuesday. A meeting of the Board of Management of the Varsity on Monday unanimously decided to appoint Dr. Sudheer Babu to the post.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-registrar-takes-charge-at-kvasu/article33449610.ece
30 December 2020||Kannur,KERALA||No virus mutation reported in State: Minister||Health Minister K.K. Shylaja has said that no genetic mutation has been reported in the COVID-19 virus in the State. Speaking to reporters here on Tuesday, the Minister said the detailed report was expected on the day and the State was prepared to deal with any mutations. Those coming from abroad would be monitored and there was nothing to worry about it now, the Minister said . Ms. Shylaja said the State was on high alert as the genetic mutation had been confirmed in the country. COVID-19 had been confirmed in 18 persons who returned to Kerala from Britain. They were under special surveillance, she said and added the swab samples had been sent to the Pune Institute of Virology to find out if they were infected with the new virus. The new mutant was 70% more contagious and therefore the Health Department was monitoring those who came to the State from European countries between December 9 to December 23. The new genetically modified COVID-19 virus has been confirmed in six people who returned to the country from the U.K. This information was confirmed by the Union Ministry of Health. Three people tested positive at the National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences in Bengaluru, two at the Centre for Cellular and Molecule Biology in Hyderabad and one at the Pune National Institute of Virology.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-virus-mutation-reported-in-state-minister/article33449620.ece
30 December 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||Remanded||In a case related to an armed revolution against the government and raiding a house in Kelakkam Shanthigiri colony and threatening the family members with a gun, the member of the Maoist group, Surya (25), a native of Andhra Pradesh, who was produced before a court by the Crime Branch, was remanded till January 25. Additional District Judge M. Thushar remanded him to Kannur Central Jail. He was arrested by the anti-terrorist squad led by SP Theresa John, Dy.SP Sunil Kumar from Andhra Pradesh for the incident that took place on April 28.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/remanded/article33449953.ece
30 December 2020||KASARAGOD,KERALA||CUK classes to begin from Jan. 4||The Central University of Kerala (CUK) will resume regular classes on January 4. The university had imposed restrictions and suspended classes for students amid the outbreak of COVID-19. In the first phase, classes will begin for students of the science department, including plant science, biochemistry, genomic science, chemistry, physics, geology and environmental science. Only 150 students, about 50% of the department’s strength, will be allowed on the campus in the first phase. University authorities under the leadership of Vice Chancellor H. Venkateshwarlu reviewed the preparedness on the campus. All entries to the campus would be monitored according to COVID-19 protocol, said Mr. Venkateshwarlu. He said students were required to undergo an antigen test before entering the campus. Only those students who had tested negative would be allowed inside. They should also undergo seven days of quarantine, he added. The university will allow only one person inside a hostel room. After quarantine, students will be tested by the Health Department. Only those students who tested negative would be allowed for 37 days’ lab work. Students who tested positive would be transferred to the COVID first-line treatment centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cuk-classes-to-begin-from-jan-4/article33449528.ece
30 December 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Ban on single-use plastic to be strictly enforced||The district administration is all set to enforce the ban on single-use plastic strictly from New Year. District Collector S. Suhas has said the production, storage, and exchange of such materials will be made illegal and violators will be strictly dealt with. Among the materials that will remain banned include all types of plastic carry bags, plastic sheets used to parcel food, plates and cups made of styrofoam and thermocol, single-use plates, cups, spoons, and straws, non-woven bags, plastic flags, and decorative materials, plastic wraps used for packaging fruits and vegetables, plastic water pouches, and PET (Polyethylene Terephthalate) mineral water bottles of carrying capacity less than 500 millilitres. Besides, the stuff available in the market in the name of compostable plastic will also be banned. Only paper, cloth, steel, ceramic or wooden materials will be allowed. A monitoring system will be in place in the district for the enforcement of the plastic ban. Special squads will be formed at local-body levels for the purpose. Flying squads will carry out surprise inspections in hotels and shops. Local body secretaries have been asked to ensure strict enforcement of the ban.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ban-on-single-use-plastic-to-be-strictly-enforced/article33449951.ece
30 December 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Suspected shigella case: emergency meeting held||In the wake of a suspected shigella case reported from Chottanikkara, an emergency meeting was held at the District Medical Office to review the situation. Health Department officials, experts from the medical college, food safety officials and the medical officer of the primary health centre at Chottanikkara visited the place and collected samples from water sources in the area for testing. As a precautionary measure, there will be awareness campaigns in the area and preventive steps will be implemented. Dr. Vivek Kumar, District Medical Officer in-charge, led the meeting. District Surveillance Officer Dr S. Sreedevi reviewed the preventive measures. Shigella bacterial infection causes dysentery and spreads through contaminated water, stale food and contact with infected people’s excreta. Hygiene, drinking of boiled water and washing of hands before and after food can prevent the disease.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/suspected-shigella-case-emergency-meeting-held/article33449952.ece
30 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Monitoring committee to address waterlogging||A local-level monitoring committee represented by various departments will be formed to address various issues, including water logging, faced by the city. The decision came at a meeting of officials convened by Mayor M. Anilkumar on Tuesday as part of coordinating the functioning of various government departments in the city. He said that the corporation would make all efforts to coordinate the development works. Officials concerned were entrusted with intensifying post-monsoon cleaning drive and to address water logging on a war footing. Similar review meetings would be held every month by including more departments. A joint team comprising the District Collector and officials of the KSEB, Kerala Water Authority (KWA), Kochi Metro Rail Limited (KMRL), and Public Works Department (PWD) would undertake a spot visit as part of finding a solution to the water logging at Kaloor KSEB substation. District Collector S. Suhas presided over the meeting. Deputy Mayor K. A. Anzia, Cochin Smart Mission Limited CEO Jaffer Malik, and officials of KSEB, KWA, PWD, KMRL, Greater Cochin Development Authority, corporation secretary, and superintending engineer attended the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/monitoring-committee-to-address-waterlogging/article33449949.ece
30 December 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Excise steps up surveillance to ensure drug-free New Year eve||The city and its extended suburbs will be under close surveillance of the Excise Department to ensure that New Year revelers don’t add zing to their celebrations using drugs. Over 200 excise officials will hit the streets on New Year eve and will continue to roam around well into the next morning to keep the revelries in check. “We will be deploying as many as five strike forces — two each in West Kochi, one in the city, and two in the eastern suburbs of the district. Besides, our officials from range and circle offices led by inspectors or circle inspectors in plain clothes will roam around in private vehicles and will alert our strike forces about any suspicious activities immediately,” said T.A. Ashok Kumar, Deputy Excise Commissioner, Ernakulam. Strike forces will station in Fort Kochi, and on the other side in Njarakkal as well so as to ensure that any development that warrants intervention on either side will not be delayed on account of traversing the distance. The excise will also work in association with the police both on information sharing and for coordinated action. Surveillance and coordinated action in town areas will be under the direct supervision of the deputy commissioner while deployments along the West Kochi region will be led by the assistant commissioner. Excise officials are also taking stock of the events being planned by hotels and homestays as part of New Year celebrations. “Our enforcement will be unobtrusive without in any way interfering with the programmes but keeping a tab, all the same, to ensure that celebrations don’t stray into illegal means,” said the deputy commissioner. Besides, courier companies are also under the scanner in view of the recent trend by which premium drugs are being couriered as parcels to doorsteps. Though the district has witnessed an unprecedented haul of ganja both by the police and the excise, New Year revelries are often dubious for the use of premium synthetic drugs brought in from places like Goa and Bengaluru. Going by the history of New Year revelries, premium synthetic drugs like MDMA and LSD and their more inferior counterparts like psychotropic drugs in tablet forms often find their way to jazz up celebrations and it is this menace the Excise Department is particularly targeting this time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/excise-steps-up-surveillance-to-ensure-drug-free-new-year-eve/article33449950.ece
30 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Govt. to file appeal||The State government on Tuesday informed a Division Bench of the Kerala High Court that it would file an appeal against a single judge’s order directing the Deputy Inspector General of Police, Central Reserve Police Force, Group Centre, Thiruvananthapuram, to take over the Kothamangalam church and its properties if the Collector did not take over it by January 8, 2021. The submission was made by the government pleader when a petition filed by Mathai M.K. and other Jacobite faction members challenging the single judge’s refusal to implead him in the contempt of court proceeding and passing the verdict. The order was issued by the single judge judge on a contempt of court petition filed by the Vicar of the Orthodox faction against the Ernakulam Collector for not complying with earlier High Court directives to take over the church. The petitioners contended that the single judge's order was in clear violation of their fundamental rights.The court posted the petition on January 5 for further hearing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/govt-to-file-appeal/article33449597.ece
30 December 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Vigil against COVID-19 increased in tourism locales||With footfall increasing in waterfront and other tourism locales in Ernakulam district, tourism stakeholders have upped their vigil to prevent the spread of COVID-19. Instructions have been given to stakeholders in different locales to ensure adherence to the COVID protocol, especially to ensure physical distancing and wearing of face mask. This is being adhered to in tour packages that are being arranged, a DTPC official said. On its part, Kerala Tourism has instructed hotels and resorts to give renewed emphasis to hygiene and the quality of food and water being served. In this, common areas have to be frequently cleaned and sanitised. Jungle safari In a novel initiative, the Kudumbashree has launched a tour package named Kuttampuzha Jungle Safari, as part of its tribal development project. The aim is to impart information to visitors on the forest and cultural diversity of the locale. Visitors can opt to trek through the forest area, savour food in huts having thatched roof, rest in tree houses and enjoy a canoe tour. They can also opt for swimming and angling, sources said. Apart from natural splendour, visitors can check out the famed muniyaras, Vana Durga Temple, Aanakayam Beach and Aanathaara. The tour package for six people has been priced Rs. 5,000. It includes the tariff for breakfast and lunch. For details, call 94460 36768. The muniyara dolmens are magnificent pre-historic dolmens situated in Kuttampuzha and belong to the Neolithic Age. These above-ground burial chambers were built with large stone slabs and are called megaliths. Historians have special interest in these granite slabs as they are more than 1000 years old. The forests are also a place of ornithological importance. Aanakayam near Kuttampuzha is where Edamalayar and Pooyamkutty rivers merge. It is popularly known as river beach, due to sand bank deposits along the river.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vigil-against-covid-19-intensified-in-tourism-locales-in-district/article33449944.ece
30 December 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Driverless metro trains sought for Kochi too||With Prime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurating India’s first driverless train operation in Delhi Metro’s Magenta Line on Monday, there is demand that Kochi metro too go for driverless operations. “Kochi metro was the first in the country to roll out Communication Based Train Control (CBTC) system, which enables driverless train operations. Lahore Metro in Pakistan is yet another metro rail system which opted for driverless operations. In this circumstance, technical and safety measures must be vetted, if need be by the Commissioner for Metro Rail Safety (CMRS) after the systems are readied and trial runs are done,” said Ebenser Chullikat, public transport enthusiast. “Kochi Metro Rail Limited’s website speaks of driverless train operations in the future. It is a proven technology. This will in the long run make Kochi metro operate trains more frequently if needed, say at the rate of a train every 1.5 minutes, as compared to a train every seven minutes headway now. It will also help curtail expenses, especially so since KMRL recorded Rs. 310-crore loss in the last fiscal,” he said. BPA tickets Mr. Chullikat also sought measures to do away with BPA tickets, citing that frequent exposure to them has potential implications on the health of commuters and personnel who man metro stations. “Its use was discontinued in many countries. Relying on it also creates waste and littering as is seen in the vicinity of many metro stations. Moreover, recycling is tough since it has chemicals. Doing away with them will also lessen need for printers and allied machinery at ticket counters. Instead, store value cards which do not need submission of KYC documents must be promoted. Another alternative is to promote chip-embedded tokens, as is being done in many other metro rail systems. This will be in sync with the circular economy that KMRL recently proposed.”  For extensions Responding to the suggestions, Managing Director of KMRL Alkesh Kumar Sharma said that systemic changes would be needed for driverless operation of trains. “The CBTC system alone is not enough. Driverless operation can perhaps be tried out in impending extensions like to Kakkanad.” On BPA tickets, he said they were important in the current pandemic situation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/driverless-metro-trains-sought-for-kochi-too/article33449938.ece
30 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Abhimanyu memorial inaugurated||The UDF’s policy of appeasing communal forces by entering into electoral trucks with Jamaat-e-Islami and SDPI was rejected by the people in the local body elections, said Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. The activists of SDPI killed SFI leader Abhimanyu for his graffiti against communalism. The secular stand of the CPI(M) cannot be defeated through the killing of its activists, said Mr. Vijayan while inaugurating the memorial set up in at Kaloor in the name of the slain leader. Minister for Power, M. M. Mani; S. Sarma and M. Swaraj, MLAs; CPI(M) leaders P. Rajeev and C. N. Mohanan; Kochi Mayor M. Anilkumar; Kerala Bank chairman Gopi Kottamurikkal; literary critic M. K. Sanoo; and Manoharan and Bhoopathi, the parents of Abhimanyu, were among those who attended. Class rooms, lodging facilities for SC/ST students and a library have been set set up in the building.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/abhimanyu-memorial-inaugurated/article33449940.ece
30 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Seaplane makes maiden landing in Lakshadweep||The maiden landing of a seaplane was successfully undertaken in the lagoon of Minicoy Island, Lakshadweep, on Monday. Sheltered lagoons in the islands offer an ideal space for seaplanes to land and take off. This landing paves the way for expanding operations to the islands from the mainland. The landing was undertaken under the aegis of Southern Naval Command, with active support and participation of UTL Administration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/seaplane-makes-maiden-landing-in-lakshadweep/article33449942.ece
30 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Ernakulam sees spike in cases||The district on Tuesday recorded 734 new COVID-19 cases and 377 recoveries. Six health workers were among the infected. Thrikkakara topped the incidence with 31 cases, followed by Palluruthy (30), Kalamassery (28) and Thripunithura (26). A total of 29,119 were under observation as on Tuesday. There were 8,571 patients. New admissions to FLTCs/hospitals were 113.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ernakulam-sees-spike-in-cases/article33449945.ece
30 December 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Death of domestic help: accused surrenders||Imthiyaz Ahammed, the flat owner who employed the domestic help who succumbed to her injuries while scaling down from his sixth-floor apartment near Marine Drive earlier this month, surrendered before the Central police here on Tuesday. Since the Ernakulam Sessions Court had granted him anticipatory bail, the police recorded his arrest and released him on bail. He was absconding since the victim succumbed to her injuries on December 13 and following which he moved the court for anticipatory bail. “We will now collect more evidence and submit the charge sheet,” said a senior police officer associated with the probe.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/death-of-domestic-help-accused-surrenders/article33449947.ece
30 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Actor case: prosecutor to be posted soon||The process for the appointment of a Special Prosecutor for conducting the trial in the actor rape case is in the final stages. The progress of the appointment was communicated to the Special Judge Honey M. Varghese, on Monday when the case was considered. The appointment was necessitated following the resignation of A. Sureshan, the special prosecutor. He had stepped down after charging the trial court judge of behaving in a biased manner. The petition of the prosecution for a change of court was rejected by the High Court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/actor-case-prosecutor-to-be-posted-soon/article33449599.ece
30 December 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Call for insurance cover to compensate fishers’ loss||Parametric insurance scheme should be implemented in marine fisheries to compensate the loss suffered by fishermen following weather alerts, according to Muralee Thummarukudy, Operations Manager, Crisis Management Branch of the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP). The increasing trend of cyclones lately has a cascading effect on the livelihood of fishers, he said. Ensuring a parametric insurance scheme would make fishermen fully cooperative to such alerts banning fishing, he added. Dr. Thummarukudy was speaking at a webinar organised by the Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute (CMFRI). He said climate change and extreme weather conditions would cause more calamities in the marine fisheries sector in future. Disaster management Subjects on disaster management and safety measures should be included in school syllabus to contain the adversities and accidents by bad practices. “A large number of people lose their lives in road accidents and drowning in Kerala. This could be controlled to a greater extent by inculcating proper safety culture among the public,” he said. “Disasters could be predicted by analysing a previous tragedy with its geography and time periods. Taking precautions by assessing these possibilities of a calamity is the best available option to reduce the risk of natural disasters,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/call-for-insurance-scheme-to-compensate-fishers-loss/article33449946.ece
30 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Stay order issued by HC within hours after incident||The Kerala High Court had issued a stay order in favour of the man who succumbed to burns on Sunday after he accidentally set fire on himself on December 22 when the police tried to implement an order of the Neyyattinkara Principal Munsiff Court to demolish the shed in which he and his family were living. His wife Ambili, who also sustained burns, died at the Government Medical College Hospital, Thiruvananthapuram, on Monday. In fact, the stay order was passed around 2.30 p.m. on December 22, just hours after the tragic incident took place. It was issued on a petition filed by Rajan. Rajan and his neighbour Vasantha were involved in a dispute over the ownership of a piece of land at the Laksham Veedu colony and Rajan had recently constructed a temporary shed on the land. The Neyyattinakara Principal Musiff court had directed Rajan to restore the status quo ante of the disputed property by demolishing the shed and warned that if he did not do so, the shed would be removed in the presence of a commissioner to be appointed by the court. ‘Not contested’ In his petition, Rajan had said that the case was not properly contested by his counsel at the Munsiff court, culminating in an ex parte order. Though an appeal was filed, the appellate court had not heard the stay petition in view of the COVID-19 situation. In the meantime, the trial court went ahead with the implementation of its order. Rajan’s petition said that if the order was implemented, he and his mentally unstable wife, along with their children, would be thrown out on the street as they had no other houses except the shed. The Munsiff court had passed the order without hearing him, he complained. The High Court, while staying the implementation of the Munsiff court order, had also issued notices on December 22 to the opposite parties, including V. Vasantha. The Munsiff court order came on a petition filed by Ms. Vasantha and her four neighbours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/stay-order-issued-by-high-court-within-hours-of-incident/article33449519.ece
30 December 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Kollam to be made a metro city: Mayor||The Kollam city Corporation will focus on social-justice based development and welfare while diverse projects will be implemented to make Kollam a metro city, newly elected Mayor Prasanna Earnest has said. At a press meet here on Tuesday, she said that a master plan for city development would be prepared within three months. “The service of experts will be used for this and an advisory committee will be constituted to ensure public participation. Each year the progress report will be presented before the public and their suggestions will be sought. Issues that require immediate implementation will be taken up within 100 days,” she said. Citizen-centric Making Corporation office paper-free, issuing online certificates and delivering various services without delay are the other promises of the new council head. “These measures will be implemented for a citizen-centric, popular and corruption-free governance.” The Corporation also has plans to address the pandemic-related and post-COVID-19 problems in a comprehensive manner. Special cells would be formed to enforce COVID-19 protocol and mobile labs would be started to conduct various tests, he said. “The units will be eventually upgraded as mobile hospitals by including doctors. As the schools are scheduled to reopen in January, committees including the Principal, PTA president, division councillor, a doctor and nurse will be formed in each school to ensure effective COVID-19 prevention and containment.” Clean city Ms. Earnest added that making Kollam a clean city would be a priority and steps would be taken for the construction and maintenance of more public toilets. “Another plan is to make Kollam a Corporation without any landless or homeless families. During the past five years 3,000 families were provided a roof over their heads under LIFE Mission and this time the Kollam Corporation has received around 8,000 applications,” she said. Revival of tourism Renovation of the Kollam canal will be another priority along with the revival of tourism sector in the district. “National-level cultural festivals will be organised and steps will be taken to preserve the heritage of the city. The Corporation will also open a centre or mobile unit distributing free meals in order to make Kollam a hunger-free city,” she said and requested the support of all irrespective of political and communal differences to implement these programmes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kollam-to-be-made-a-metro-city-mayor/article33449586.ece
30 December 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||No celebrations violating COVID norms: Collector||Mass gatherings to usher in 2021 violating COVID-19 protocol will not be allowed in the district and action will be taken against institutions that organise celebrations without the permission of police or District Disaster Management Authority, District Collector B. Abdul Nasar has said. Considering the threat of transmission and the recent spike in the number of cases, the residents have been instructed to follow the COVID-19 protocol and all other guidelines issued by the Health Department during get-togethers and other gatherings on New Year’s Eve. Traffic curbs Traffic regulations will be enforced in all places where the crowd usually gathers including tourist destinations in the district and the beaches in Kollam and Parvur. Churches, business outlets, and other such spots will be under close monitoring to prevent crowding during New Year celebrations. The police and Health Department will intensify COVID-19-related announcements to spread awareness among people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-celebrations-violating-covid-norms-collector/article33449589.ece
30 December 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Competition||Kerala State Youth Commission will organise the EMS memorial elocution competition on January 12 in connection with National Youth Day. Application and resume can be sent to Kerala State Youth Commission, Vikas Bhavan, Thiruvananthapuram - 695 003 or youthday2020@gmail.com before December 31. Those coming in the age group of 18 to 40 years can participate. Call: 0471-2308630 or 80869 87262.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/competition/article33449588.ece
30 December 2020||Kottayam,KERALA||Kottayam registers 777 fresh cases||As many as 777 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kottayam on Tuesday. Of the fresh cases, all but four contracted the virus through local contact. The fresh cases included 76 children and 131 persons aged above 60. With 94 cases, the Kottayam municipality led the tally, followed by Erumeli with 37 cases. Vazhappally reported 32 cases while Madappally witnessed 31 cases. With 581 recoveries during the day, the district currently has 6,717 active cases. 561 in Pathanamthitta As many as 561 persons tested positive in Pathanamthitta on the day. Of the fresh cases, 529 persons contracted the virus through local contact and among these, the contact source of 62 cases is yet to be identified. Among the local bodies, Adoor reported 33 cases, followed by Koyipram with 29 cases. Meanwhile, the disease claimed four more lives in the district. The victims were identified as a 58-year-old Naranamuzhy native, a 79-year-old Kodumon native, a 36-year-old woman from Pallickal and a 55-year-old woman from Vadasserikkara. With 245 recoveries during the day, the district currently has 5,019 active cases. 437 in Kollam The district reported 437 new COVID-19 cases and 348 recoveries on Tuesday. Those who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 include 431 contact cases, one person who came from another State, four health workers and one case with no known source. A 67-year-old Pallithottam resident is the case with no known source. The health workers who contracted the infection are from Elampalloor, Kottankara, Chavara and Punalur. The district currently has 12,036 persons under observation and the total number of samples collected is 5,80,080. While 1,305 persons completed home quarantine on Tuesday, the Health Department has traced 1,37,726 primary and 12,781 secondary contacts of the patients. 352 cases in Alappuzha Alappuzha logged 352 cases on the day. The fresh cases include 324 patients who contracted the virus through local transmission, while the source of infection of another 23 people remains unknown. Three persons who came from other States, one from abroad and a health worker also tested positive for SARS-COV-2. The 352 cases include 46 reported from Alappuzha, 23 from Chengannur and 15 from Nooranad. Meanwhile, 237 persons who were undergoing treatment for the disease in the district recovered. The active COVID-19 caseload in the district stands at 4,572. Containment zone Ward 41 in Kayamkulam municipality was declared containment zone. (With inputs from Pathanamthitta, Kollam and Alappuzha bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kottayam-registers-777-fresh-cases/article33449591.ece
30 December 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||‘CM’s criticisms unfortunate’||The Malankara Orthodox Syrian Church (MOSC) on Tuesday termed unfortunate the criticisms raised by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan against the Orthodox faction in connection with the church dispute. In a statement, Episcopal Synod secretary Yohanon Mar Diascoros also accused the Chief Minister of taking a biased stance on the issue. “It is so unfortunate that the Chief Minister, who has the constitutional responsibility to implement the Supreme Court judgment, acted as a spokesperson of a faction. Like never before, the Chief Minister has also paved the way for other church factions to intervene in the internal affairs of a church. Any attempt to keep the church dispute alive to make political gains will be resisted collectively,” he said. The Metropolitan also regretted that the Chief Minister had chosen to trust without an inquiry the figures presented by one section regarding the membership position in the parishes. Further, he also dismissed Mr.Vijayan’s statement on the cemetery issue. “The Orthodox Church has never prevented the cremation of any of the parish members in the churches under its control. The church was ready to cremate the dead bodies with all due honours but it was the Jacobites who had used those occasions to force the entry of some of the banned priests into the parishes. We have only insisted on conducting the funeral in the presence of the Vicar who was legally entitled,” he said. Holding that the Orthodox church would rather expect the Chief Minister to make responsible statements by taking into account the various aspects of church disputes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cms-criticisms-unfortunate/article33449600.ece
30 December 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Hygiene protocol for city in 100 days||The new council of the Kozhikode Corporation will give utmost priority to waste management and take steps to solve related issues by the end of its term, Mayor Beena Philip has said. Meeting the press officially for the first time after taking charge as the new Mayor, Ms. Philip applauded the efforts taken by the previous council in the matter and said the projects that could not be completed by the last council would be taken forward. The council would come up with a city hygiene protocol in 100 days, she said. “Most of our solid waste management issues will be solved with the completion of the waste-to-energy plant at Njeliyanparamba. But, the public should cooperate with and be part of the Corporation’s efforts to ensure proper waste collection and disposal,” she said. The Corporation had to earn the people’s trust before going ahead with the sewage treatment plant project, she added. “Depositing toilet waste on roadsides during late hours has become a daily occurrence in the city. We do not have any facility to treat it, though not for the lack of effort from the local body. We face stiff opposition from local people wherever such plants are planned,” said Ms. Philip. Responding to a query on parking issues, the Mayor said the proposed parking plazas alone would not be able to solve the problem. The Corporation was on the lookout for spaces on roadsides where parking facilities could be made available and the city traffic police was studying the issue. Deputy Mayor C.P. Musafir Ahamed said the Corporation office would be made more public-friendly and corruption-free. He blamed excessive intervention by the media and vested political interests for the non-completion of several projects. He said the bus terminus at the medical college would be completed during the term of the present council.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hygiene-protocol-for-city-in-100-days/article33449527.ece
30 December 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Kannathil Jameela back at helm of district panchayat||Her wealth of experience in running the local self government bodies, coupled with social and political commitments did not make the district Communist Party of India CPI(M) think twice to choose Kannathil Jameela to head the Kozhikode District Panchayat the second time. As president of the district panchayat from 2010-2015, she took the initiative to successfully implement the Sneha Sparsham project for helping persons with kidney diseases. The project got a tremendous response from the public as well as other local bodies. Her comeback, many believe, will re-focus on social and welfare projects once again. As then, the post has been reserved for women now. Originally a native of Kuttiyadi, Ms. Jameela won the polls this time from the Nanmanda division of the district panchayat after defeating the Congress nominee by a margin of over 8,000 votes. The Left Democratic Front, the coalition, which the CPI(M), leads also has a brute majority with 18 seats in the 27-member council. Ms. Jameela’s entry into electoral politics was when she fought the polls from Thalakulathoor grama panchayat in 1995 and also became its president. At that time, she was area committee president of the All India Democratic Women’s Association (AIDWA), a women’s affiliate of the CPI(M). Subsequently, she became a member of the party in 1997. She was also the Chelannur block panchayat president during 2005-2010 before the came to the district panchayat a decade ago. Now, she is a member of the CPI(M) district committee and also district president of AIWDA. She is also State joint secretary of the AIDWA and one of the representatives of government in the State Orphanage Committee.  As president of the district panchayat from 2010-2015, she took the initiative to implement the Sneha Sparsham project for helping persons with kidney diseases||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kannathil-jameela-back-at-helm-of-district-panchayat/article33449521.ece
30 December 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Fire at scrap collection unit, major tragedy averted||A major tragedy was averted due to the timely intervention of local people as a massive fire broke out in a building used to store scrap materials in Kozhikode city on Tuesday. People going to the mosque noticed the fire in a makeshift building beside the national highway at Saradamadham-Kundayithode, near Cheruvannur, at around 5 a.m. on Tuesday. They rescued about 15 migrant labourers, including a woman and a baby, who were living inside the building. Cars inside a nearby dealership also had to be removed. A fire brigade from Meenchanda arrived soon and fought the fire under challenging circumstances. Scrap materials, comprising mostly plastic items, caught fire easily and could not be doused immediately. The firefighters had to get water from Mananchira, about 9 km away from the accident spot. Fire brigades were brought from neighbouring Malappuram district as well. It took the fire and rescue services personnel about four hours to bring the fire under control and nearly six hours to douse it. The police said the fire could have had disastrous results with a gas filling station and LPG godown located on the premises. So far, there has been no damage to the nearby shops. The huge quantity of plastic smoke in the air could, however, cause environmental damage. Transport Minister A.K. Saseendran, Labour Minister T.P. Ramakrishnan, District Collector Seeram Sambasiva Rao and Mayor Beena Philip visited the spot. The District Collector has formed a squad to probe the incident. The Kozhikode Corporation has issued a statement that the building was constructed illegally and that the scrap business being run from the building was also illegal. The Corporation claimed to have noticed the illegal construction in August 2020, when the business was started and said two eviction notices were served on August 29 and September 9. The building was used to store scrap materials, such as footwear, bags and bottles, collected from houses and shops from various parts of Kozhikode district. Around 250 truckloads of scrap was being stored there without segregation for around four months. The Corporation on Tuesday served a notice on Sajin C.P., the person operating the scrap business. He was asked to shut down the business and to clear all scrap from the building at the earliest, failing which further action would be taken.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fire-at-scrap-collection-unit-major-tragedy-averted/article33449525.ece
30 December 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||IISR team inspects crops at Kattippara||In connection with Swachhata fortnight celebrations, a team of scientists and technical personnel from ICAR-Indian Institute of Spices Research, Kozhikode, conducted crop surveillance and monitoring visit to Kattippara on Tuesday. Kattippara is one of the villages adopted by the institute under ‘Mera Gaon Mera Gaurav’ (My Village My Pride) programme. The volunteers visited the farmers’ plots including kitchen gardens, paddy lands, banana plantations, and vegetable gardens, a statement said. On the occasion, the farmers were educated about the technologies from the institute besides emphasising the significance of Swachhta Mission for maintaining the village clean and green. The villagers were also enlightened about the importance of maintaining cleanliness in their day-to-day life and in homesteads, besides emphasising the ill-effects of plastic which cause hazardous impacts on the environment. Also, on-the spot solutions were also provided for effective, economic and eco-friendly management of pests and diseases of various horticultural crops, including spices. Efficient utilisation of organic waste and generation of wealth from waste by promoting clean and green technologies through organic farming practices were also highlighted on the occasion. The field visits were organised in collaboration with the Krishi Bhavan, Kattippara, and coordinated by K. K. Muhammad Faisal (Agriculture Officer), K. Jamsheena (Agriculture Assistant), N. K. Velayudhan and K. T. Joseph (Haritha Cluster).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/iisr-team-inspects-crops-at-kattippara/article33449523.ece
30 December 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||New Malayalam films via OTT platform||It may be a while before cinemas open, but on January 1 a new over-the-top (OTT) platform will start streaming brand new Malayalam films. Prime Reels, a subscription-based streaming portal and mobile application, will screen only new releases. Before long, a few others will join the already crowded platform of online streaming services. “We will release one new Malayalam film every week,” says Thomas Sebastian, the founder of Prime Reels. “I don’t think there is another OTT platform that will stream only new Malayalam releases.” The first film to stream on the platform will be Guardian. It is a thriller directed by Satheesh Paul and stars Saiju Kurup and Miya. Vakku , featuring Suraj Venjaramoodu, Sumesh & Ramesh , starring Sreenath Bhasi and Balu Varghese, and Confessions of Cuckoo , starring Durga Krishna, are also lined up for streaming. “As many as 25 films have already been acquired,” says Thomas. “There are so many Malayalam films affected by COVID-19. So there won’t be a dearth of films for online release.” He believes there will be enough takers for new releases online. “There are a lot of people who are watching films on computer or mobile screens,” he says. “And if you have a good home theatre, an entire family can enjoy a new release from the comforts of home by spending Rs. 99.” Satheesh Paul also thinks there is potential for an OTT platform for new Malayalam films. “Some 70 films are ready for release,” he says. “So even when theatres reopen, I don’t know when I will be able to release Guardian ; I thought releasing it online is a good option.” Prime Reels may soon find company though. A couple of months ago, actor Edavala Babu had announced the launch of V Next. Few more “And there are a few more,” says Satheesh. “I was approached for the rights of Guardian by some of them.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-malayalam-films-through-ott/article33449615.ece
30 December 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Principals’ council voices concern over reopening of colleges||The Kerala Unaided Colleges Principals’ Council has expressed concerns about the move to reopen colleges from January 4 and hold classes on Saturday as directed by the University Grants Commission and the Centre. Varughese Mathew, council functionary, said in a release on Tuesday that the proposal to hold classes in two shifts in the morning and in the afternoon would be practically difficult as teachers and non-teaching staff would be forced to work overtime. The UGC had proposed to start the first shift at 8.30 a.m. and conclude the second shift by 5 p.m. for sixth semester undergraduate students and fourth semester postgraduate students. The council said that students in various streams often attend language classes together. If the classes are held in two shifts, this would not be possible. With transport services yet to fully resume in view of the pandemic situation, students coming from distant places would find it difficult to reach home if the classes conclude at 5 p.m. The council proposed that the classes be held at one stretch between 8.30 a.m. and 1.30 p.m. To compensate the loss of first semester classes for undergraduate and postgraduate students, the council suggested that both the first and second semester classes for them be completed by April 30. Summer vacations can be declared between May and June and the classes can resume on July 1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/principals-council-voices-concern-over-reopening-of-colleges/article33449619.ece
30 December 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||507 fresh COVID cases, 645 recoveries in Kozhikode||As many as 507 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kozhikode district on Tuesday and there were 645 recoveries. According to the District Medical Officer, there were 475 locally acquired infections and the source was unknown in 22 cases. Kozhikode Corporation had the highest number of local transmission cases at 111. Payyoli had 22 and Thikkodi and Omassery 18 each. A total of 5,786 samples were tested. The active case load from Kozhikode district stands at 6,280. Two deaths were reported at the Government Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode, on Tuesday and five others on Monday. The COVID-19 vaccine will be administered to only those health workers who have registered themselves with the National Health Mission, District Collector S. Sambasiva Rao has said. In a release, he said that though the district administration had issued a notice to private healthcare institutions to register details of their employees, some had not done it yet. Visitnhmkkd.blogspot.comfor registration. An Excel sheet would have to be downloaded, details added, and mailed tocovidvaccine@gmail.com. For details, contact 759401442. In Wayanad As many as 208 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Wayanad district on Tuesday. Of the new cases, 206 patients, including four health workers, were infected through local contact. While a person came back from Karnataka another returned from abroad. The district has so far reported 16,491 COVID-19 cases. Of these, 13,902 have recovered from the disease, including 223 persons on the day. The total number of active cases as on date was 2,488 in the district. As many as 9,448 persons are under observation and 101 persons have died of the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/507-fresh-covid-cases-645-recoveries-in-kozhikode/article33449517.ece
30 December 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Kesari Bhavan inaugurated||Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) Sarsanghachalak Mohan Bhagwat inaugurated the newly constructed Kesari Media Studies and Research Centre — Kesari Bhavan — at Chalappuram here on Tuesday. Mr. Bhagwat lauded the efforts of those behind the growth of the Kesari through seven decades which he said was achieved through constant effort. The Kesari Bhavan comprises the office of Kesari Weekly , media school, research library, digital library, digital archive, mini-theatre, guest rooms, publication section, and a bookstall. N.R. Madhu, Kesari Weekly Chief Editor, and P.K. Sreekumar, managing trustee, Hindustan Prakashan Trust, presented a Ganesh statue to Mr. Bhagwat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kesari-bhavan-inaugurated/article33449618.ece
30 December 2020||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||IUML announces candidates for posts of civic body chiefs||The Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) has announced its presidential and vice presidential candidates for the Malappuram District Panchayat and block panchayats. IUML district president and parliamentary party chairman Sayed Sadikali Shihab Thangal made the announcement here on Tuesday. The elections to the three-tier panchayats will take place on Wednesday. M.K. Rafeeka is the United Democratic Front (UDF)’s candidate for District Panchayat President. Ismail Moothedam is the candidate for the vice president. Sareena Haseeb and Naseeba Thappy will be IUML’s standing committee chairpersons in the District Panchayat. The UDF has won 27 of the 32 seats in the District Panchayat. In Malappuram block panchayat, Abdurahman Karat and Rajula Pelathodi will be president and vice president respectively. In Areekode block panchayat, Rukhiya Shamsuddeen and K.C. Gafoor Haji will be president and vice president respectively. In Perinthalmanna block panchayat, A.K. Mohammed Mustafa will be the president. The UDF will decide its vice president on Wednesday. In Kuttippuram block panchayat, Waseema Veleri and K.T. Azad will be president and vice president respectively. In Tanur block panchayat, K. Salmath and P.C. Ashraf will be president and vice president respectively. In Kalikavu block panchayat, P. Sreeja Teacher will be the president. The vice president will be decided on Wednesday. In Vengara block panchayat, M. Bensira and Aboobacker Pulikkal will be president and vice president respectively. In Tirurangadi block panchayat, K.T. Sajida will be the president. In Mankada block panchayat, T. Abdul Kareem and K.V. Juvairiya will be president and vice president respectively. In Kondotty block panchayat, Shajini Unni will be the president. In Wandoor block panchayat, K.K. Sajida will be the vice president. The UDF will announce its president on Wednesday. In Nilambur block panchayat, Fatima Ismail will be the vice president. The UDF has a clear majority in 12 of the 15 block panchayats and in the District Panchayat in Malappuram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/iuml-announces-candidates-for-posts-of-civic-body-chiefs/article33449531.ece
30 December 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Uncertainty over civic body heads to end||Uncertainties about who will rule eight grama panchayats in Palakkad district will end on Wednesday when the three-tier civic bodies elect their presidents and vice presidents. The Left Democratic Front (LDF) has ensured power in 61 of the 88 grama panchayats in the district. The United Democratic Front (UDF) has gained power in 19 panchayats. In five out of the eight panchayats where uncertainties prevail, a draw of lots may decide the governing council. Although there are a couple panchayats where none has a simple majority, parties are hopeful of getting the benefit of having the largest number in the council. Not to seek BJP’s help Both the LDF and the UDF have decided not to seek the help of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in any civic body. The BJP too has decided not to extend its support to any fronts or the independents seeking the help of either the LDF or the UDF. The role of the Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) can be crucial in some panchayats. The SDPI supported the LDF in Shoranur municipality. The LDF is hopeful of getting the SDPI support in some panchayats too. Presidents and vice presidents in Kavassery, Kuzhalmannam, Nemmara, Koppam, and Kapur panchayats may be elected through a draw of lots. In Kavassery, Kuzhalmannam and Koppam, both the UDF and the LDF have eight seats each and the BJP has one seat. In Nemmara, both fronts have nine seats each and the BJP has two. In Kapur, the LDF and the UDF have nine seats each. In Mankara, both fronts have six seats each and the BJP has one seat. A CPI(M)-backed independent who defeated the CPI’s official LDF candidate is likely to support the LDF in Mankara. In Parali, both the LDF and the BJP have eight seats each. The UDF has three seats, apart from an independent member in Parali. The CPI’s rebel independent is likely to support the LDF. In Malampuzha, LDF has six seats, the BJP five seats, and the UDF two seats. The LDF looks almost certain to retain power in Malampuzha. In Karimpuzha, Puthussery and Muthalamada panchayats, none has a simple majority. In Karimpuzha, the UDF has nine seats, the LDF eight and the BJP one. In Puthussery, the LDF has 10 seats, the UDF nine seats, and the BJP and independents two seats each. The stand of the two independent members will be crucial in Puthussery. In Muthalamada, the LDF has nine seats, the UDF six seats, the BJP three seats and two independents. The LDF has better chances in Muthalamada. In Ongallur, the LDF has 10 seats, the UDF nine seats, the SDPI three seats and the BJP one seat. The SDPI is trying for a bargain in deciding the next governing council. The LDF is hopeful as it got the SDPI support in Shoranur municipality.  The Left Democratic Front has ensured power in 61 of the 88 grama panchayats in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/uncertainty-over-civic-body-heads-to-end/article33450043.ece
30 December 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||21-year-old rugby player to be panchayat vice president||Twenty-one-year-old Kanchana Rakesh is poised to become vice president of Tiruvegapura grama panchayat when the election of civic body heads takes place on Wednesday. The United Democratic Front (UDF) has chosen Ms. Kanchana for the post. An established sports personality, Ms. Kanchana was captain of the Kerala Rugby Team. She began as a football player of Government Higher Secondary School, Chalavara. Ms. Kanchana became a member of the district football team and went on excelling on Mercy College campus in softball, netball and handball. She represented the college in university games. She focused on rugby after her degree, and became captain of the Kerala Target team. Education She is currently doing her MA in Malayalam at Sree Neelakanta Govt. Sanskrit College, Pattambi. Ms. Kanchana was elected from Manjambra ward, a traditional bastion of the CPI(M), with margin of 31 votes. The UDF has captured Tiruvegapura panchayat by winning 12 of the 18 wards. The Congress has four wards when the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) has eight. The panchayat president will be from the IUML.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/21-year-old-rugby-player-to-be-panchayat-vice-president/article33450042.ece
30 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||3-tier panchayat heads to be elected today||The elections to the president and vice president posts in the three-tier panchayats in the district will be held on Wednesday. The election of the presidents of district, block, and grama panchayats will be at 11 a.m and the vice president elections will be at 2 p.m. The District Collector will be the presiding officer of the election process in the district panchayat while in the block and grama panchayats, the respective returning officers will preside over the election. In the Thiruvananthapuram district panchayat, D. Suresh Kumar of the CPI(M) is expected to win the election to the president post. The Left Democratic Front has fielded A. Shailaja Begum, who was the vice president in the previous term, in the same post this time too. The LDF has won a majority of 20 out of 26 divisions, improving its tally be one division, despite a high-voltage campaign by the Opposition parties. The United Democratic Front (UDF) won six seats while the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) lost its sole sitting seat at Venganoor. Election will be held if there are more than one candidate contesting for the president and vice president posts.  Election process Once the candidates are finalised, ballot papers are prepared with the names of all the candidates on one side and the seal and signature of the returning officer on the other. The members have to mark ‘x’ against the name of their preferred candidate and write their name and affix the signature on the back side of the ballot. The returning officer will declare the result soon after the voting process is over in the presence of all the members. The returning officer will administer the oath to the president while the president will administer the oath to the vice president. Owing to the prevailing COVID-19 situation, the voting process will be conducted by following all protocols. Those members who are under observation for COVID-19 will be allowed to vote at the end, wearing the necessary protective equipment. In case of law-and- order issues in any area, the officials concerned should ensure smooth conduct of the election with police protection, the Collector said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/3-tier-panchayat-heads-to-be-elected-today/article33450058.ece
30 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||COVID death toll crosses 3,000 in State||The case graph of new COVID-19 cases continues to show an upsurge, with the State reporting 5,887 new cases on Tuesday when 61,778 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. The cumulative toll crossed the 3,000 mark to register a total of 3,014 deaths when 24 new deaths were entered into the official list of COVID deaths. With disease transmission levels remaining steady, test positivity rate (TPR) remained at 9.53% on the day. The TPR has remained more or less between 9-11%, since the past few weeks, not showing any signs of decline. Active case poll Active case pool which has been rising ever since the local body polls were completed, touched 64,861 cases, and is the highest in the country now. Kerala accounts for nearly 24% of the total active cases currently in the country. With 5,029 persons reported to have recovered from the disease, the cumulative recoveries reported till date has risen to 6,81,397. Of the 24 new deaths, Thrissur reported seven, Malappuram six, Palakkad three, Kannur, Thiruvananthapuram and Kottayam two each, while Kozhikode and Kollam reported one case each. Of the 5,887 new cases reported, in 89 cases, the Health Department has reported a history of travel outside the State, while 5,798 are locally acquired infections. Amongst the locally acquired infections, in 555 cases the source of infection remains untraced while the number of health-care workers who acquired the infection is 63. While Kottayam reported 777 cases, Ernakulam 734, Thrissur 649, Malappuram 610, Pathanamthitta 561, Kozhikode 507, Kollam 437, Thiruvananthapuram 414, Alappuzha, 352, Palakkad 249, Kannur 230, Wayanad 208, Idukki 100, and Kasaragod 59.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/covid-death-toll-crosses-3000-in-state/article33449622.ece
30 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Heart-rending scenes unfold at Neyyattinkara||The year would have passed off as any other with Rahul and Renjith partaking in the Christmas festivities with their parents and relatives at the Lakshamveedu Colony in Pongil, near Neyyattinkara. However, this was not to be. Their dreams were shattered and world turned upside down within a few minutes on December 22 when the youngsters stood witness to their parents setting themselves ablaze to thwart a police bid to evict them from their house, which a local court found was built on encroached land. Rajan used to earn a living as a carpenter while the couple’s elder son, 22-year-old Rahul, would supplement the family’s income as a part-time mechanic. Their hopes began to fade within a few days after Rajan and his wife Ambili, who had suffered high-degree burns, suffered multiple organ failures at the Government Medical College Hospital here. Their worst fears came true when their parents succumbed to the burns on Monday. The world stood witness to the unfolding tragedy as Renjith dug the grave for his father amid the police officers’ attempt to deter him. Overcome with rage and despair, the 17-year-old boy accused them of murdering his parents as he continued to prepare the ground for the burial in heart-rending scenes. He and his elder brother continued to expect that their mother would return to them. But their hopes were short-lived as she breathed her last on Monday evening, just hours after her husband. Immense support The incident shook public conscience and the orphaned youngsters, who faced the prospect of being rendered homeless, received immense support from all quarters. Vasantha, who had complained against Rajan in the Neyyattinkara munsiff court, soon drew the ire of local residents. While Rajan and his family claimed that they had built their home on a puramboke land, Vasantha maintained that they had encroached on her property. Making matters worse, Vasantha told media persons on Tuesday that she would never cede the land to the orphaned youngsters, despite being urged by her children to do so. “I will never provide the plot to a bunch of thugs who sought to isolate me,” she said, amid boos and slogans raised by the local community. Anticipating a backlash, the police later relocated her to a different location. The protests did not end there. The ambulance carrying Ambili’s body from the hospital was blocked for nearly three-and-a-half hours as her children joined a large gathering that demanded concrete assurances from the government. The protesters did not relent to the pleas made by the Neyyattinkara tahsildar. This prompted District Collector Navjot Khosa to rush to the scene and promise the agitators to take steps against the officials responsible. She added that she would submit her report to the government on Wednesday. Ambili’s body was finally buried near her husband’s on the house compound around 8 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/heart-rending-scenes-unfold-at-neyyattinkara/article33450064.ece
30 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Various projects launched on Nirbhaya Day||Minister for Women and Child Development K.K. Shylaja inaugurated the Nirbhaya Day observance organised by the Women and Child Development Department and various projects on Tuesday. Legal desk The Minister inaugurated a legal desk launched alongside the Nirabhaya Cell to scientifically handle the cases of child sexual abuse survivors and complete the proceedings without delay; the second SOS model home in the district to provide a homely environment to girl survivors of sexual abuse under the age of 12 and support their growth and development; and community-based rehabilitation for unifying rehabilitation efforts of survivors living outside the Nirbhaya Women and Children Home. From families In her address, the Minister said that on this Nirbhaya Day, the first step to curb violence against women and children should come from within our families. “We should work together to ensure there are no more incidents of violence against women such as that was committed against Nirbhaya,” she said. Four areas The State Nirbhaya Cell, which, is under the department is making major interventions in four areas — prevention, protection, legal procedures, and rehabilitation — for prevention of sexual crimes against women and children. On the basis of such an initiative, the education of survivors of sexual crimes through the 17 Nirbhaya Women and Children Home in various districts, their skill development, and rehabilitation are made possible. In homes At present, nearly 400 children stay in these homes. For more scientific training and skill development of these children, work on a model home in Thrissur is under way. Nirbhaya Day is observed in the State since 2016 when the young woman who was gang-raped in New Delhi on December 16, 2012, died at hospital on December 29.  Security of women The Left Democratic Front (LDF) government has launched a number of initiatives for security of women. Among these is the Home for Mental Health at Ramavarmapuram in Thrissur for children who face sexual abuse and have mental problems, Tejomaya Home at Edakattuvayal in Ernakulam where survivors who have completed their education can receive skill-based education, and emergency financial aid of up to Rs. 2 lakh for POCSO survivors, those who face domestic violence, other sexual violence, and acid attack survivors. Cultural contests Cultural contests and tours for children living in Women and Children Homes; KSRTC bus branding for promotion of Nirbhaya Day; day branding through AIR FM station; face-to face programmes on Doordarshan were among the programmes organised in connection with Nirbhaya Day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nirbhaya-day-observance/article33449941.ece
30 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Samagra Shiksha attempts to bridge digital divide||Schools are closed for students since the start of the academic year owing to the COVID-19 pandemic, but in Thirupuram grama panchayat’s IHDP Hall under the Neyyattinkara block resource centre, they have been attending the State government’s digital classes every day for months now. These students, living in a colony, do not have television sets at home or individual phones and they watch the classes on a television donated by a government officials’ union. Any related academic activities are completed there itself and sent to the teachers concerned with the support of Meenu J.S., an education volunteer appointed by the Samagra Shiksha, Kerala.  673 resource centres Like the Thirupuram grama panchayat’s IHDP Hall, Samagra is operating 673 local resource centres across the State since September in areas where socially and economically backward families live. Children come to the resource centres where the education volunteers provide them learning support. C. Radhakrishnan, State Programme Officer (Innovations), Samagra Shiksha, Kerala, says that educational and social backwardness of these families is reflected in their children’s education. Arithmetic, languages, reading, and writing are areas where the children may not fare well. Moreover, online classes cater to a broad segment of students, but are not enough to attend to individual requirements. Students from these sections often require additional support for proper comprehension of the online classes. The Samagra’s intervention through these local resource centres is tailored to address their academic backwardness. One batch attending the resource centres comprises a maximum of 10 students. If there are more students, they are grouped into separate batches and come to the local resource centres on different days. In areas where students lack facilities to watch the online classes at home, televisions are provided at these centres, such as in Thirupuram panchayat’s IHDP hall. Some local study centres have also been converted into resource centres. Different ages Ms. Meenu helps out eight students of different ages. While the younger students do not face any problems in understanding the online classes, those in Classes 8 and 9 require additional support, mostly in subjects such as Science, Mathematics, and Social Science. At times, it is because the classes are in Malayalam, while her students attend English medium in school, she says. Besides educational volunteers, cluster resource coordinators support these students as also teachers from nearby schools wherever possible. Samagra’s special teachers for art and craft and sports also visit these centres so that not only students’ academics, but their physical fitness and other talents also improve.  Academic activities are completed at the centres and sent to teachers concerned with the support of education volunteers||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/samagra-shiksha-attempts-to-bridge-digital-divide/article33450056.ece
30 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||IUML campaign against ‘Islamophobia’||Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) has embarked on a campaign to dispel the propaganda that the party had wooed fundamentalist forces to its fold and struck brazenly radical positions on social issues to stabilise its "shaky" base in North Kerala. As part of the outreach, IUML general secretary P.K. Kunhalikutty on Tuesday met Cardinal Baselios Cleemis, the current major archbishop of the Syro-Malankara Catholic Church, here. He had met Thamarassery Bishop Remigiose Inchananiyil in Kozhikode earlier. The IUML felt that the CPI(M) and the BJP were on the same page when it came to stoking up Islamophobia to draw Hindu and Christian votes away from the UDF ahead of the Assembly elections in mid-2021. The party aspired to reopen the robust communication channels it had traditionally maintained with Christian sects and Hindu social organisations. The IUML was already in agreement with few backward class organisations on the reservation issue and hoped to build on the relationship to benefit the UDF in the Assembly elections in 2021. IUML leaders had stated that they would not make heavy demands on the Congress during Assembly seat-sharing talks. Poor showing The poor showing of the UDF in the local body polls had lent some credence to the theory that the LDF and the BJP were modestly successful in curbing its influence among Hindu and Christian voters in south and central Kerala by alleging that the Congress, at the behest of the IUML, had struck an alliance with the Jamaat-e-Islami in North Kerala. The BJP had claimed an increased acceptance among Christians in central Travancore at the UDF's expense stating that the community shared the party's concern about issues such as "love jihad" and Islamic fundamentalism. The CPI(M) had accused the IUML of accepting the spiritual leadership of the Jamaat-e-Islami. The party said the IUML had in a newspaper article supported the Turkey government's decision to change the iconic Hagia Sophia's status in Istanbul from a historical museum to a mosque to appease fundamentalists.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/iuml-campaign-against-islamophobia/article33449601.ece
30 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Secularism in India remains challenged, says Engineer||Noted human rights activist Irfan Engineer has said that secularism in the country faces manifold challenges that require interventions at various levels to make it socially relevant and sustainable. Delivering the annual memorial lecture organised by the Vakkom Moulavi Memorial and Research Centre, Vakkom, on ‘India’s tryst with secularism: past and future challenges’, Mr. Engineer, who is the director of the Mumbai-based Centre for Study of Society and Secularism, said that democratic secularism could be the only viable alternative capable of blending Nehruvian vision and Gandhian ideals in the current scenario of majoritarian political challenges. Citizens’ role He said the task of secularism in the country was two-fold that should incorporate the responsibilities of the State and individuals. “The interventionist role of the State can be effective only when it works for the welfare of citizens, particularly the most needy. The individuals and the civil society have equal responsibility to ensure that the rights and privileges of communities do not interfere with the democratic-secular aspirations of the society at large,” he said. Mr. Engineer said that though the state could permit religious practices, subject to public morality and law and order, it should not favour any religious community by way of promoting or deepening any identity. He cited the examples of the passing of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act in the Parliament and the ‘love jihad’ legislations introduced by various State governments. Weakens social fabric “Such tendencies will only weaken the social fabric of the Indian secularism and thereby undercut the constitutional ideals,” he said. Veteran journalist B.R.P. Bhaskar, Planning Board members B. Ekbal and Ravi Raman, and APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University Pro Vice Chancellor S. Ayoob took part.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/secularism-in-india-challenged-engineer/article33449581.ece
30 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||P. Harikesan Nair steps down as municipal vice chairman||Nedumangad municipal vice chairman P. Harikesan Nair on Tuesday tendered his resignation a day after the Communist Party of India (Marxist) broke the pre-poll agreement with the Communist Party of India (CPI) to elect its nominee to the post. Mr. Harikesan Nair apparently contested for the vice chairman’s post at the behest of the Nedumangad area committee of the CPI(M) that had opposed the CPI’s move to field its senior councillor S. Raveendran to the post. While the former managed to win the post with ease, the development did not go down well with the CPI district leadership. The issue, which threatened to sour ties among the Left parties, also posed danger to the Left Democratic Front (LDF)’s prospects in those local bodies that witnessed tight contests with the United Democratic Front (UDF) for the posts of chairman and vice chairman. The CPI had conveyed its decision to contest for the posts separately on Wednesday if the CPI(M) failed to honour its pre-poll agreements. The CPI(M) State leadership stepped in to prevent further escalation of the issue by instructing Mr. Harikesan Nair to step down. Accordingly, the four-time councillor submitted his resignation letter to the municipal secretary. CPI leaders claimed that Mr. Raveendran would be nominated to the position yet again, notwithstanding the objections raised by local CPI(M) leaders. District leaders meet Meanwhile, the district leaders of both the parties met at the CPI(M) district committee office on Tuesday to finalise post-sharing for the three-tier panchayats. The CPI has been allotted the chairman’s post at Vellanad block panchayat throughout the term, and that at the Athiyannoor and Perunkadavila block panchayats for two-and-a-half years. Besides, the party will also get the vice chairman’s post at the Parassala, Nedumangad, and Pothencode block panchayats.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nedumangad-municipal-vice-chairman-resigns/article33449580.ece
30 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Rs. 313.9 cr. received from Centre||Kerala has received Rs. 313.92 crore from the ninth instalment released to the States by Union Finance Ministry as back to back loan to meet the Goods and Service Tax (GST) compensation shortfall. Of the Rs. 6,000 crore provided to the States to meet the GST compensation shortfall, Rs. 5,516.60 crore has been released to 23 States and the balance Rs. 483.40 crore to the three Union Territories (UT) with Legislative Assembly-Delhi, Jammu & Kashmir & Puducherry-who are members of the GST Council. The other five States who had not been paid now do not have a gap in revenue on account of GST implementation. Special window The Union government had set up a special borrowing window in October 2020 to meet the estimated shortfall of Rs. 1.1 lakh crore in revenue arising on account of implementation of GST. The Rs. 6,000 crore has been borrowed by Centre this week at an interest rate of 5.15 per cent. So far, an amount of Rs. 54,000 crore has been borrowed by the Central Government through the special borrowing window at an average interest rate of 4.74 per cent. For the State, this is the fifth instalment of the dues after joining other States and UTs to accept Option I put forward by the Union government for meeting the GST compensation cess shortfall. The Centre has already granted additional borrowing permission of Rs. 4,522 crore to Kerala (0.5 per cent of Kerala’s GSDP). The State has got Rs. 1,583.88 crore as compensation, sources in the Finance Department said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rs-3139-cr-received-from-centre/article33449611.ece
30 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Motel Aaram in 18 months: Minister||The capital district has immense tourism potential and the maximum number of projects was executed during the present tenure of the Left Democratic Front (LDF) government to leverage the potential, Minister for Tourism and Devaswom Kadakampally Surendran has said. Speaking after laying the foundation stone for Kerala Tourism’s Rs. 9.61-crore Motel Araam at Valicode near Nedumangad on Tuesday, the Minister said the pilgrim tourism circuit linking key religious places of worship in Thiruvanananthapuram district was on.  1.53 acres The Motel Aaram will be completed in 18 months, he added. The wayside amenity is being set up in the 1.53 acres of land that had been handed over by the Irrigation Department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/motel-aaram-in-18-months-minister/article33450059.ece
30 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||414 new cases in capital||The district recorded 414 COVID-19 cases and 375 recoveries on Tuesday as the number of active cases stood at 3,493. While 5,300 persons were subjected to tests during the last 24 hours, the test positivity rate was 7.8%. Barring three imported cases, all the cases have been attributed to local transmission. The sources of infection of 111 cases were unknown. Seven health-care workers are among those who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. The COVID-19 death toll stood at 652. The district administration placed 1,211 people under quarantine on the day, taking the number of people being monitored to 21,233 at houses and 69 in various institutions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/414-new-cases-in-capital/article33450062.ece
30 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Veteran broadcaster passes away||Indira Joseph Venniyoor, Renowned broadcaster, All India Radio veteran, and the first English news announcer of Travancore Radio, passed away on Tuesday morning at her residence at Poojapura here. She was 94. She was the wife of well-known literary scholar and art critic the late E.M.J. Venniyoor, Station Director, All India Radio. She is survived by three sons and their families. It was in 1949 that Travancore Radio started its first English news service. As the first regular announcer, it was Indira Joseph Venniyoor who started relaying the news. “This is Trivandrum. You will now hear the news read by Indira Poduval...” — the announcement in her signature voice was familiar to radio listeners for years. A lover of music and performing arts, she encouraged budding professionals in the fields.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/veteran-broadcaster-passes-away/article33450067.ece
30 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Mass memorandum submitted||The Jacobite faction of the Malankara Church on Tuesday submitted a mass memorandum to the Governor Arif Mohammed Khan and the State government demanding legislation for amicable solution to the issues that are a bone of contention with the Orthodox faction. A four-member delegation led by Geevarghese Coorilos, Metropolitan of Niranam diocese, submitted the memorandum signed by five-lakh followers to the Governor. Earlier, Industries Minister E.P. Jayarajan received the memorandum submitted by the delegation at his office. The Jacobite faction is of the view that bold steps from the State government was needed to end the dispute. A Supreme Court verdict on July 3, 2017, had given the Orthodox faction the right to all properties, including churches..||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mass-memorandum-submitted/article33449613.ece
30 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Green audit||A green audit will be held in the first week of January to review the green protocol activities at government offices and schools and issue green certification and grading, Haritha Keralam Mission district coordinator D. Humayun has said in a statement here. Those who secure more than 90 marks will receive ‘A’ grade.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/green-audit/article33450060.ece
30 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Last date extended||The last date to submit applications for free skill-based courses being launched at various IHRD institutions has been extended to January 5. For details, log on towww.ihrd.ac.inor call 0471 2322985.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/last-date-extended/article33449602.ece
30 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Fishermen debt relief panel sitting||The Kerala State Fishermen Debt Relief Commission will hold a sitting at 11 a.m. on January 5 to consider debt relief applications in the district. The sitting will be held through videoconference.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fishermen-debt-relief-panel-sitting/article33449603.ece
30 December 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Development vision based on social justice: CM||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, who’s touring the State to gather suggestions to build on the roadmap for a new Kerala, has said the people have faith in the government’s inclusive development activities and are therefore confident of the State’s progress. Following interactions with people from various spheres in Thrissur on Tuesday, he told the media that most suggestions related to raising the State’s education sector to global standards. There were also suggestions pertaining to environment-friendly tourism projects; tribal education, health and skill development; setting up an Arabic study centre; skill development programmes and the like. To strengthen women’s empowerment initiatives, the scope of the Kerala Women’s Commission’s activities must be expanded, some suggested. There were also those who wanted to have more secular festivals. Mr. Vijayan said during discussions with the Centre, it was conveyed that one of the Kuthiran tunnels would be completed by January. The issues surrounding the Paliyekkara toll plaza would be addressed in consultation with the district administration. The Koottanad-Walayar GAIL project would be completed by March, he said. Veteran educator P. Chitran Nampoothripad, Yuhanon Mar Meletius Metropolitan of the Orthodox church, Metropolitan of the Assyrian of Church of the East Mar Aprem, Kerala Sahitya Akademi president Vaisakhan, filmmaker Sathyan Anthikkad, percussionist Peruvanam Kuttan Marar were among those who interacted with the Chief Minister. Mr. Vijayan told them that a blueprint for development made in consultation with people from all walks of life ahead of the last Assembly election was what the State government’s activities were based on. The government was able to bring out its performance card annually. A total of 570 of the 600 promises made in the election manifesto were delivered on. He also touched upon the way the State handled the crises from Cyclone Ockhi and Nipah virus outbreak and the floods. The State government’s development vision, he said, was based on the concept of social justice and various mission mode projects brought a tangible change in education, housing, health and agriculture sectors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/development-vision-based-on-social-justice-cm/article33449617.ece
30 December 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||649 cases in Thrissur||There were 649 COVID-19 cases in Thrissur district on Tuesday while 604 people recovered. There are 5,849 active cases here and 86 people from Thrissur are undergoing treatment in other districts. So far 73,580 COVID-19 cases have been reported in the district and 67,203 people have recovered from the disease. Officials say 629 people, including five health workers, contracted the disease through contact. Of them, 106 are above 60 and 47 children are below the age of 10. In all, 117 people were admitted to hospitals and 5,921 samples were collected for the test.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/649-cases-in-thrissur/article33450039.ece
30 December 2020||December 30 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Traditional ritual||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/traditional-ritual/article33449583.ece
30 December 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Three-day online meditation session from tomorrow||The Sri Ram Chandra Mission and Heartfulness Institute founder Kamlesh D. Patel will conduct a three-day meditation programme online during which the country’s renowned people would speak about ways to come out of the trauma people are enduring during the coronavirus pandemic. In a release here on Tuesday, the mission’s local chapter guide Myreddy Madhusudhan said the programmes on December 31, January 1 and 2 would be anchored by renowned film director, actor and producer Shekhar Kapur. The online programme titled ‘Reset, Refresh and Re-heart for 2021’ can be viewed at https://heartfulness.org/ en/refresh2021/ The speakers include Kamlesh D Patel, Patanjali Yogpeeth president Baba Ramdev, Brahma Kumaris spiritual movement teacher B.K. Shivani, and monk, author and speaker Gaur Gopal Das. People can view the programme at 6 p.m. on all the three days, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/three-day-online-meditation-session-from-tomorrow/article33450004.ece
30 December 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Miscreants flee with tomato-laden van||The tomato price has plummeted to such a level that even thieves appear to be not interested to take it. Case in point is that miscreants fled with a vehicle laden with tomatoes at Maillapalli in Kanaganapalli mandal, but not before dumping the entire load on the highway. According to information, a farmer loaded his entire stock tomatoes to his minivan on Monday and parked the vehicle in front of his house at Maillapalli. He had planned to take to stock to the market on Tuesday. The miscreants fled with the vehicle and dumped the entire load of 30 crates of tomatoes on the highway at Seetharampalli in the early hours of Tuesday. On Tuesday morning, the farmer found his minivan missing. Search launched He searched for it and found the entire stock dumped on the road at a village nearby, said Kanaganapalli police. The police launched a search for the van that was yet to be traced till the last report came in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/miscreants-flee-with-van-laden-with-tomatoes/article33450006.ece
30 December 2020||B. Madhu Gopal,ANDHRA PRADESH||Waltair division runs more freight trains to offset revenue loss||Waltair Division, which is presently under the jurisdiction of East Coast Railway (ECoR), has earned a freight revenue of Rs. 4,127.20 crore from April to November, 2020, notwithstanding the COVID-19 pandemic situation. In contrast, the Division had earned Rs. 5,154.19 crore during the corresponding period last year. The freight traffic handled was 35.20 million tonnes from April to November, 2020, as against 42.40 million tonnes handled during the corresponding period in 2019. The passenger traffic declined from 24.47 million from April to November 2019 to 0.62 million during the same period this year. The passenger revenue fell from Rs. 391.47 crore to a mere Rs. 32.58 crore. The cancellation of regular trains prompted the railway officials to run more freight and parcel trains to partially offset the loss of revenue. They also completed pending infrastructure works like Limited Height Subways (LHS), track works, rail renewal and replacement of old wooden sleepers with pre-stressed concrete sleepers taking advantage of the lack of movement of regular coaching trains. The works taken up during the year include: insertion of Reinforced Cement Concrete (RCC) segmental boxes to form Limited Height Subways (LHS) at 10 locations, of which seven are in Visakhapatnam city limits and the remaining at Kottavalasa, Kantakapalli and Alamanda Sections, construction of a foot-over-bridge at Kottavalasa, rail renewal of 1898.89 track kilometres in various sections and two ‘diamond crossings’ in Waltair Marshalling Yard cabins, which were existing on wooden layout have been converted to Pre-Stressed Concrete (PSC) sleepers layout and complete renewal of 4.309 track kilometres was done, thereby increasing the safety quotient and enhancing the asset reliability and ease of maintenance. GoPro cameras Waltair Division introduced GoPro cameras in the Railway Protection Force (RPF) Dog Squad on Republic Day 2020 for the first time in Indian Railways. These cameras capture footage from a dog’s - eye view, body worn cameras were also introduced for the use of RPF personnel in the discharge of their duties. The division has also served food to 66,822 destitute and poor through the IRCTC during the pandemic. Food and water was also served to 142 Shramik Special trains, which passed through division and groceries were distributed to 200 licensed porters at Visakhapatnam by East Coast Railway Women’s Welfare Organisation (EcoRWWO). Visakhapatnam Railway Station has bagged the platinum rating of the IGBC (Indian Green Building Council) this year for adopting green technology concepts. Diesel Loco Shed, Visakhapatnam, the biggest loco shed in Asia for its holding capacity and for maintenance of locomotives, has come up with several innovations to check the spread of the pandemic and to safeguard the health of frontline doctors and paramedical workers like development of a medical robot to assist doctors and paramedical staff at the railway hospital to serve patients from a safe distance. Another innovation by DLS is the provision of CC camera in shunting locomotives, which acts as a third eye for the shunters (locomotive operators).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/waltair-division-runs-more-freight-trains-to-offset-revenue-loss/article33450083.ece
30 December 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||A year of endurance for Chittoor||The year 2020 was quite a tough journey for Chittoor district. Flanked between Tamil Nadu and Karnataka, the tail-end district of Andhra Pradesh is known as a hub of hectic business transactions through the inter-State border. Dotted by many famous shrines including Lord Venkateswara temple at Tirumala and the temples at Tirupati, Srikalahasti and Kanipakam among others, the district receives a lot of devotees from across the country on a daily basis. Closure of temples As the lockdown led to the closure of the temples for over three months, it delivered a blow on the business activities, causing loss of livelihood of a substantial population. The people of the district share an inseparable bond with the cities in Tamil Nadu and Karnataka. Koyambedu link Thousands of people with business interests keep criss-crossing the inter-State borders daily. The months-long lockdown had a telling effect on the district’s economy. Thousands of vegetable farmers and merchants were hit with the closure of Koyambedu market in Chennai, which became a hotspot for infection. The district was yet to register a single COVID-19 positive case when the nation-wide lockdown was clamped on March 24. In April, the first case was identified in Srikalahasti and the patient had just returned from London. But, the number soon soared to hundreds, then to thousands.  The fear of spread of infection from Koyambedu market kept the authorities on their toes. All the national, State and rural roads looked deserted in the wake of intensified police patrolling to restrict the movement of people. Yet, the number of positive cases began to swell by June, with an alarming number of casualties. Just a few days left before the year ends, Chittoor district now stands first in the State with 840 deaths due to COVID-19 and a cumulative tally of more than 86,000. However, the situation has improved significantly as the number active cases remains less than 400 now. Healthcare services It was a year of endurance for the district administration which left no stone unturned to keep the infection count at bay. The health authorities came up with an action plan to keep more than 5,000 beds in reserve, besides adding a substantial number of beds at the SVRR and SVIMS hospitals. The mega pilgrim amenities complexes belonging to the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) were into COVID care centres. Many government officials from police, health, revenue and other frontline departments who were on COVID-19 duty got infected. District Medical and Health Officer M. Penchalaiah said that the administration had been doing its best when it came to extending healthcare services to the patients. “Be it sample testing, admission to hospitals, treatment or post-COVID care, we are putting a lot of efforts on all fronts. And these initiatives are paying the results as the number of active cases has come down drastically. Now, we are waiting for vaccines. Though the COVID-19 situation has improved substantially, we can not afford to lower the guards. We are constantly cautioning the public about the possible new wave of infection and monitoring the situation closely,” said Mr. Penchalaiah.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/a-year-of-endurance-for-chittoor/article33450008.ece
30 December 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Regressive customs take a toll on women in Chittoor hamlets||A few kilometres from Kuppam municipality in Chitoor district — towards the Tamil Nadu border — are located the remote hamlets of Urinayanapalle, Urinayanapalle Kottur and Palem, which are home to some of the most archaic and regressive customs surrounding childbirth and menstruation that have survived to this day. Women having their periods are forced to relocate to a shack on the outskirts of the village, where they live in isolation till their periods are over. Around 700 families reside in these three hamlets, which are located close to each other amidst dense forests. The shacks on the outskirts of the villages have no electricity or water supply, and offer little protection from either the weather, or the bears and venomous snakes that reside in the forests. A few years ago, a bear had strayed into one of the hamlets and gouged out the eyes of a villager, it is learnt. Generally, Kuppam region is known for its for cold winters, when temperatures drop down to below 10 degrees Celsius. This makes it all the more difficult for menstruating women, who now have to endure the discomfort of their periods while having to sleep on the bare floor. New mothers are also subjected to this ordeal. The women, along with their newborns, have to spend a certain number of days in isolation (‘Antu’ in Telugu), with food and water left outside the shacks for them by their family members. Aversion to footwear Footwear is taboo for the villagers. While the village elders remain barefoot, they also prohibit others from wearing shoes or slippers inside the villages. Those wanting to wear footwear can do so only outside the villages. But why the aversion to shoes or slippers? A Urinayanapalle resident said it is an age-old custom which is unlikely to go away soon. “It was in 1984 when N. Chandrababu Naidu paid a visit to the place, his first and last. He observed the way of life here and returned. In the late 1990s, some senior officials visited the hamlet and tried to launch awareness campaigns against the taboos prevalent here. Hundreds of brand new pairs of footwear were distributed to us. But the moment the officials left, all the villagers took the slippers and dumped them on the outskirts of the hamlet,” the villager said. Ramachandra (50), a former MPTC member of U. Kottur, said that though efforts were made to educate the villagers to let go of their superstitions and taboos, they have persisted and only grown more entrenched with time. “It is next to impossible to get the villagers to change their ways. These customs have been passed down from one generation to the other for many years and they are not going away anytime soon,” he said. Sivappa (60) of Urinayapalle, an influential man of the hamlet, echoed Mr. Ramachandra’s thoughts. “Several officials and political leaders have tried to bring about a change but in vain. Only a miracle can result in change,” he said. Only a handful of students from the three hamlets pursue Intermediate and degree education in Kuppam. On the other side of the border, in Tamil Nadu, Ekalanattam hamlet follows similar practices. Meanwhile, a modern shelter with doors and electricity and water supply has come up at Urinayanapalle hamlet, thanks to an NRI who was moved by the plight of the women and donated money for its construction. However, village elders remain divided over allowing their womenfolk to use the facility. “A number of officials visited the villages several times, pleading with villagers to join the mainstream. But they are unmoved. Further interference in their affairs would only serve to push them away, which we want to avoid,” a senior government official in Kuppam said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/regressive-customs-take-a-toll-on-women-in-chittoor-hamlets/article33449350.ece
30 December 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Wild elephants a ‘jumbo’ menace in Chittoor||The year 2020 leaves behind some unpleasant memories to the people of the forest fringe villages located on the borders of Tamil Nadu and Karnataka. The year saw three human casualties -- two women farmers and a driver of the Forest Department -- due to attack by wild elephants. The man-animal conflict also led to three casualties due to electrocution in the agriculture fields. The man-animal conflict is one of the major concerns in Chittoor district, particularly in the western side from the Kuppam region at tri-State junction to Somala forests close to the Seshachalam hills, a zone stretched for over 120 km. For the first time since the early 1980s, when the Asiatic elephant made its reappearance near Kuppam, the year 2020 saw the inter-State movement of five elephant herds. The number of pachyderms, including those of the Koundinya elephant project and the elephants on migratory jaunts, stood at over 70 this year, considered the highest so far. This figure excludes the 40 elephants in the Seshachalam ranges. One-eyed elephant The three human casualties this year came from the attacks by the migratory elephants. A one-eyed lone male elephant from Tamil Nadu created a big problem in Yadamarri mandal near Chittoor, putting a check on the free movement of farmers for several weeks. After strenuous efforts, the jumbo in ‘musth’ was driven back into the TN forests, after it attacked a forest jeep killing its driver in October. A couple of months previously, wild elephants crushed two women farmers to death, while they were on night vigil in their fields. Traffic on the busy Chittoor-Bengaluru NH came to a halt on three occasions when the herds kept criss-crossing the zone. An unusual phenomenon in the man-animal conflict in Chittoor this year was that the migratory elephants which used to generally limit their movements to Kuppam and Palamaner ranges bordering TN and Karnataka forests in the previous year, started straying into Punganur and Somala mandals, keeping a number of villages on edge. As per official figures, crops were damaged in about 160 hectares in the district, while farmers complain that the figure could be even more. ‘Movement uncontrolled’ Divisional Forest Officer (Chittoor West) S. Ravi Shankar has told The Hindu that in spite of the efforts to erect elephant-proof trenches and solar fencing at the border areas, the movement of inter-State herds remained uncontrolled in 2020. “As the elephant corridor extends from Mudumalai in Tamil Nadu via Bannerghat in Karnataka to Seshachalam biosphere, the inter-State movement of elephants is slowly on the rise. Instead of man-animal conflict, the trend of their co-existence should flourish. This is the only wayout to address the issue,” says the official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/wild-elephants-a-jumbo-menace-in-chittoor/article33450033.ece
30 December 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Red sanders logs seized||The Andhra Pradesh State Red Sanders Anti-Smuggling Task Force (APSRSATF) patrol party in the early hours of Tuesday seized 18 red sanders logs, 16 axes, medicines and some provisions near Haritha Colony close to Karakambadi road in Tirupati. In the pre-dawn strike, two constables of the task force were injured while in a bid to nab the fleeing smuggling operatives. According to information, a task force party was on the job to track the movement of a batch of smuggling operatives through Karakambadi beat since Monday night. Around 20 operatives were seen negotiating the hilly terrain. Two constables were injured when they faltered on the slippery slopes. The two were later shifted to SVRR Hospital for treatment. The task force personnel recovered the logs, axes and other paraphernalia from a thicket along with a couple of personal kits of the elusive operatives. Interestingly, the seizure included dhotis and shirts of red and yellow colour. Based on the Aadhar cards inside, it was found that they came from Tirupattur of Tamil Nadu. Additional forces were despatched into the forests to flush out the trespassers. “In order to avoid being captured, the operatives adopt the tactics of moving in the guise of pilgrims,” an official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/red-sanders-logs-seized/article33449807.ece
30 December 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jobs for 400 Vignan students||Several students of Vignan University have secured jobs with leading multinational companies (MNCs) in the year even as the outbreak of the pandemic raised serious concerns over campus recruitments. Four hundred students have been placed in leading MNCs like Tata Consultancy Services (TCS), Cognizant, Hexaware, Infosys, Virtusa, Nalsoft, TEKsystems, JARO, and HDFC Bank even before the students had completed the first semester of their fourth year. The students have been given pay packages ranging from Rs. 3.5 lakh to 7.5 lakh per annum. Vignan Chairman Lavu Rathaiah and Vice-Chancellor M.Y.S. Prasad congratulated the students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jobs-for-400-vignan-students/article33449355.ece
30 December 2020||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ramcharan, Varun test positive for COVID-19||Film stars Ramcharan Tej and Varun Tej have tested positive for COVID-19 and have quarantined themselves. Announcing it on their respective social media handles, both actors appealed to those who had come in close contact with them to get tested. Mr. Ramcharan tweeted, “I have tested positive for COVID-19. No symptoms and quarantined and home. Hope to heal soon and come out stronger. Request all that have been around me in the past couple of days to get tested. More updates on my recovery soon.” Mr. Varun Tej announced on Instagram that he too had contracted the virus with mild symptoms and he was currently quarantined at home, taking necessary precautions. The actors, who are cousins, celebrated Christmas at their sister Niharika’s house. Their actor-cousins Allu Arjun and Sai Dharam Tej were among those present in a picture posted by Mr. Ramcharan on his Instagram account.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/actors-ramcharan-varun-test-positive/article33449273.ece
30 December 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Indian Skimmer sighted at creek on Kakinada coast||The picturesque creek on the northern side of Kumbabhisekham mudflat on the Kakinada coast is home to 8% of the global matured population of the endangered Indian Skimmer (Rynchops albicollis), and the sighting of as many as 230 birds in December. The creek, 3.2-km away from the Coringa Wildlife Sanctuary, falls in the Central Asian Flyway of migratory birds. BNHS survey A team, led by Kakinada-based ornithologist K. Mrutyunjaya Rao, has carried out the study as part of the Indian Skimmer Count by the Bombay Natural History Society (BNHS). In mid-2020, the International Union for Conservation of Nature’s (IUCN) Red List had declared the Indian Skimmer as ‘Endangered’, citing the continuing declining trend in the global matured population of the species, which was estimated to be between 2,450 and 2,900 as per its assessment (July, 2020). In Pakistan, its number was barely 15 by mid-2020. In India, Chambal and Mahanadi river basins are the prime breeding grounds of the bird. Prior to the activities of the Kakinada Seaports Limited (KSPL) and the GMR Group for various operations in the recent years, the Kumbabhisekham mudflat was the prime feeding ground for the Indian Skimmer. The species is now being sighted in the creek adjacent to the deep sea port. Feeding ground The species chooses the Kakinada coast for its winter sojourn for feeding. It is listed in the India's Single Species Action Plan (2018-23), through which the habitats will be conserved. “On December 20, a total of 146 Indian Skimmers were recorded in the creek to the north of the Kumbabhisekham mudflat. By December 29, the number of Indian Skimmers sighted in the creek was 230. Last winter, 250 Indian Skimmers were sighted on the mudflat, which is now completely destroyed,” Mr.Mrutyunjaya Rao told The Hindu . “I have recorded two Indian Skimmers, flagged by the BNHS, at the mudflat. While one (Tag No. A67) migrated from Mahanadi in Odisha in 2019, the other (Tag No. 6-68) is sighted this winter in the creek near the mudflat. The recording of the tagged birds speaks the importance of the habitats for future conservation measures,” D. Mahesh Babu, researcher with the A.P. Forest Department, said. “The creek deserves to be declared as a part of the Coringa Wildlife Sanctuary, given its proximity to the sanctuary and global importance for protection of the habitats of the Indian Skimmer. The declaration of the creek as ‘extension of the sanctuary’ will further protect it from any threats,” observed Mr. Mrutyunjaya Rao.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/indian-skimmer-sighted-at-creek-on-kakinada-coast/article33450019.ece
30 December 2020||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Crime rate sees a downward trend in Kurnool, says SP||The criminal cases registered in Kurnool district have seen a downward trend when compared to that of 2019. As many as 6,499 cases were registered till December 20 under various sections of the IPC when compared to 7,071 last year. Giving details of the work done by the police during the pandemic, Superintendent of Police Fakkeerappa Kaginelli said that 6,563 cases were booked for violation of COVID-19 protocols, adding that the pandemic and Tungabhadra Pushkaralu increased the workload of the department. The total property loss came down from Rs. 5.44 crore to Rs. 4.76 crore this year, so the recovery rate which reduced from 44.42% (Rs. 2.41 crore) to 28.36% (Rs. 1.35 crore). However, a massive effort was made by the Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) under the leadership of Additional S.P. Gowthami Sali and 7,428 cases were booked with the seizure of a large amount of liquor from the Karnataka and Telangana borders. Illegal transport of sand The SEB personnel registered 435 cases pertaining to illegal transport of sand and arrested 833 persons, seized 505 vehicles, along with 6,661 metric tonnes of sand. Mr. Fakkeerappa said that 4,039 abandoned and orphan children including 3,146 boys and 892 girls were rescued under the Operation Muskaan. The Disha app, and A.P. Police Seva App were launched for people to make use of 87 services without going to a police station. Referring to rescue of women, the SP said Dial 100, Sakthi Team helpline (7777877700), and District Police WhatsApp number 7777877722 were being widely used. Tungabhadra Pushkaralu Congratulating the police personnel for ensuring an incident-free Tungabhadra Pushkaralu at 24 ghats along the river for 12 days, Mr. Fakkeerappa said that 15,666 CCTV cameras were installed across the district to keep a watch on the criminal activities. Technology was being used in the best possible way to ensure the safety and security of the citizens, the SP added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/crime-rate-sees-a-downward-trend-in-kurnool-says-sp/article33450003.ece
30 December 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD JEO asks PHCs to stock medicines||Tirupati-based TTD JEO P. Basanth Kumar on Tuesday instructed the officials to maintain sufficient stocks of emergency medicines at all the Primary Health Centres (PHC) on the Alipiri and Srivari Mettu footpaths. The doctors must make themselves available at all the four PHCs set-up on the Alipiri route as well as the Srivri Mettu trekking route. Accompanied by a team of senior officials including TTD Chief Vigilance and Security Officer (CVSO) Gopinath Jatti, SE-II Nageswara rao, Chief Medical Officer Dr. Narmada and Dr. Bharat Kumar, Mr. Basanth Kumar inspected the PHCs on both the footpaths and enquired about the availability of emergency drugs and trauma equipment. He asked the engineering officials to ensure availability of ambulances and undertake the repair works at the PHCs if any for the benefit of the devotees reaching the town through both the routes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ttd-jeo-asks-phcs-to-stock-medicines/article33450009.ece
30 December 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD to hold Sundarakanda Parayanam on January 2||The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) will organise the eighth edition of Sundarakanda Parayanam on January 2. Around 200 vedic scholars from Dharmagiri Veda Vignana Peetam, National Sanskrit University and S.V. Vedic University would take part in the programme to be organised at the Nada Neerajana Mandapam in front of the main temple complex. The programme is being conducted to ward off the ill-effects of the coronavirus pandemic, the organisers said. The programme would be telecast live on the TTD’s Sri Venkateswara Bhakti Channel (SVBC) between 7 a.m. and 9 a.m. on January 2, they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ttd-to-hold-sundarakanda-parayanam-on-january-2/article33450010.ece
30 December 2020||TIRUMALA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Online darshan tickets to be released today||The online quota of Rs. 300 special entry darshan tickets for the month of January will be released at 9 a.m. on Wednesday. The quota will be made available for the period between January 4 and 31 as the TTD has already issued the tickets relating to Vaikunta dwara darshan till January 3. However, the TTD is yet to arrive at a decision with regard to Sarva darshan tokens.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/online-darshan-tickets-to-be-released-today/article33449930.ece
30 December 2020||Tirupati,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Smart’ Tirupati wriggles out of COVID, but varadhi takes a hit||When the civic administrators had meticulous plans on the infrastructure development of Tirupati for 2020, it largely went haywire due to the COVID-19 situation and the lockdown it triggered. The city is slowly, yet steadily, wriggling out of the crisis as a bright beam of hope appears at the end of the tunnel in the form of funds flow expected from the TTD. The Municipal Corporation of Tirupati (MCT) and the Tirupati Smart City Corporation Limited (TSCCL) actually had the blueprint ready for the year, but most of the valuable resources like time, manpower and finances had to be diverted to safeguard the denizens from the pandemic. For close to six months, the officials were busy enforcing the lockdown, spraying disinfectant solution, organising decentralised vegetable markets, reaching out to patients with symptoms, coordinating with COVID hospitals, distribution of medical kits, essential commodities and nutritional supplements and so on. A semblance of normalcy returned only in mid-September when the pandemic graph started dipping. ‘Garuda Varadhi’, the prestigious elevated corridor project aimed at providing a hassle-free route to Tirumala-bound devotees and easing congestion for the local residents, hit a roadblock when several labourers were home-bound due to lack of work. The progress turned more sluggish not only with the change of guard in the State, but also after a petition was filed in the court on the diversion of funds from the TTD exchequer for basically an urban infrastructure project. Though the case was resolved and the work picked up pace, the ineffective flow of funds proved to be the next dampener. The financial component of the project was initially pegged at 67:33, with the TTD having to foot two-thirds of the bill and the smart city corporation one-third. Due to various reasons, the TTD brought down its share to 60%. Since the TSCCL’s share is capped at 33%, it is now for the State government to mobilise the remaining 7%. Reduces travel time When the first phase is completed by June 2021 as scheduled, the travel time between Srinivasam (APSRTC junction) and Nandi Circle will be just five minutes, which currently takes 30-45 minutes. The Karakambadi road exit is part of the first phase, while the Renigunta road stretch is expected to be ready by next Brahmotsavam (September) and the last leg i.e., Tiruchanur Road stretch by December 2021 or March 2022. “This schedule certainly depends on the uninterrupted flow of funds,” TSCCL Managing Director P.S. Girisha told The Hindu.  The TSCCL has been spending its share so far and the TTD’s share is expected to be received in the first quarter of 2021, he added. The only ‘silver lining’ of the lockdown was the dip in pilgrim footfall and the subsequent fall in traffic, which enabled the speedy completion of underground cabling and Garuda Varadhi work. Revenue loss The MCT completed the 4 MW solar panel project at Kailasagiri reservoir and fast-tracked Vinayaka Sagar beautification, but could not make much headway on the 6 MW solid waste plant at Thukivakam and ‘Nadu Nedu’ due to labour shortage. In the absence of construction work, the corporation lost Rs. 10-15 crore towards regulatory charges and around Rs. 5 crore due to lockdown, which is 10-20% of the annual revenue receivables by March end.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/smart-tirupati-wriggles-out-of-covid-but-varadhi-takes-a-hit/article33449352.ece
30 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. relaxes attendance norm for availing of Amma Vodi benefit||The second phase of Jagananna Amma Vodi - 2020-21, scheduled to be launched on January 9, will be implemented with certain relaxation of norms. In view of the fact that many students could not attend school, partially opened and classes conducted in a graded manner due to the prevailing pandemic, the norm that a student should have minimum 75% attendance in the academic year to benefit from the scheme is being done away with this time. A G.O. released by the Department of School Education said, regardless of the attendance, mothers of the students would be given the financial assistance of Rs. 15,000 under the scheme. Of the amount, Rs. 1,000 would be deducted and deposited in the District Toilet Maintenance Fund and utilised for construction and maintenance of toilets on the school campuses across the State. The scheme would also be applicable to the Intermediate students, regardless of their attendance this year. However, students pursuing IIT, Polytechnic and IIIT courses will not benefit from this programme as they are covered under the Jagananna Vidya Deevena and Jagananna Vasathi Deevena. Intermediate classes Colleges that have Intermediate courses (both general and vocational) have been asked to conduct both online and offline classes without fail. A statement issued by the Board of Intermediate Education on Tuesday said special care had been taken to establish virtual labs for preparation of recording of lessons by subject experts. It said all affiliated colleges should conduct both online and offline classes, and a choice should be given to the students to attend either of the two.  A sum of Rs. 1,000 of the Rs. 15,000 financial assistance will be used for construction and maintenance of toilets on school campuses||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-relaxes-attendance-norm-for-availing-of-amma-vodi-benefit/article33450027.ece
30 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two deaths and 326 new infections in State||The State reported two more COVID-19 deaths and 326 new infections in the 24-hours ending Tuesday morning, taking the tally to 8,81,599 and the toll to 7,100. With 364 recovering during the period, the number of active cases came down to 3,383 and the number of recoveries increased to 8,71,116. The recovery rate stood at 98.81%. Each of the two new deaths was reported in Krishna and Anantapur districts. The overall death rate remained at 0.81%. The positivity rate of the 50,794 samples tested in the last one day was 0.64%. The overall positivity rate was 7.53%. Krishna reported 67 new infections, the highest among the districts. It was followed by Guntur (56), Chittoor (52), Visakhapatnam (41), Kadapa (24), West Godavari (23), East Godavari (21), Anantapur (15), Prakasam (9), Nellore (6), Srikakulam (6), Kurnool (4) and Vizianagaram (2). Overall tally The overall tally of infections was as follows: East Godavari (1,23,625), West Godavari (93,787), Chittoor (86,030), Guntur (74,675), Anantapur (67,307), Nellore (62,067), Prakasam (62,008), Kurnool (60,548), Visakhapatnam (59,108), Kadapa (54,948), Krishna (47,667), Srikakulam (45,924) and Vizianagaram (41,010).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-deaths-and-326-new-infections-in-state/article33450015.ece
30 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||APPPS to hold State-wide protests over property tax||The Andhra Pradesh Pattana Poura Samakhya has decided to organise agitations in all cities and towns across the State in protest against the steep hike in property taxes. Addressing a press conference here on Tuesday, Samakhya convener and Communist Party of India-Marxist (CPI-M) leader Ch. Babu Rao said that the Samakhya had organised a ‘Praja Bheri Yatra’ in 13 districts, covering a distance of 3,000 km and 24 cities. “The Samakhya has decided to organise protests outside all municipal offices in the State. A State-wide joint action committee would be formed to take the protest forward. All political parties should make their stand clear on urban reforms being initiated by the State and Central governments,” he said. Mr. Babu Rao said that people were up in arms against the upward revision of the taxes. “Municipal Administration and Urban Development Minister Botsa Satyanarayana is misleading the people, saying that the tax increase would not be more than 15%, and would not a burden on the people,” he said, adding that the move could not have come at a worse time as people were already facing a lot of problems due to the COVID-19 pandemic. “The Minister owes an explanation as to why the municipal laws were amended to levy the tax based on property value. Why did the government not state lucidly in the Act that the hike would not be more than 15%? Is it not a fact that the Act states that taxes should be revised as per property value?” he asked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/appps-to-hold-state-wide-protests-over-property-tax/article33450079.ece
30 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSRCP rebuts charges||The YSR Congress Party (YSRCP) has strongly rebutted the accusations of Telugu Desam Party (TDP) president N. Chandrababu Naidu on the alleged murder of TDP leader Nandam Subbaiah. In a statement on Tuesday, YSRCP MLA Jogi Ramesh and MLC B. Krishna Murthy said the comments made by Mr. Naidu and his son Nara Lokesh in connection with the murder were highly irresponsible. Subbaiah was earlier booked in criminal cases. The TDP owed an explanation why Subbaiah, who was claimed to be a TDP leader, was booked multiple times during its rule in the State, he said. Subbaiah was booked in four criminal cases and was convicted in two of them. These cases were filed against him when the TDP was in power from 2014 to 2019, the YSRCP leaders said. “The victim’s family raised doubts over a few people. The police arrested all of them. It was later revealed that the victim and the accused were good friends before a fallout that turned into enmity,” they claimed, adding, “Be it the Amaravati case or the Proddatur case, the crimes were committed due to personal issues between the two parties and have nothing to do with the YSRCP.” “The TDP is known for encouraging murder politics,” they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysrcp-rebuts-charges/article33450026.ece
30 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||A.P. police lauded for eradicating child labour||National Commission for Protection of Child Rights member R.G. Anand appreciated the efforts of the Andhra Pradesh Police in eradicating the child labour system through various initiatives. Dr. Anand, along with Director General of Police D. Gautam Sawang, conducted a review meeting with officials of Police, Women Development and Child Welfare, Labour, Sports, Education, Health and Family Welfare and Revenue Departments and NGOs at the DGP's office on Tuesday. Dr. Anand appreciated the government and police for introducing innovative programmes to rescue children from child labour. He commended the A.P. police for making use of technology in their initiatives. The NCPCR member said with initiatives like the Disha Act to protect women and children, Andhra Pradesh has become a role model for other States across the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ap-police-lauded-for-eradicating-child-labour/article33450077.ece
30 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||State to have separate commission for STs||The State will soon have a separate commission for the welfare of Scheduled Tribes, and a notification regarding it has been issued by the government, said Deputy Chief Minister and Minister for Tribal Welfare and Empowerment P. Puspha Srivani. With this, the YSR government led by Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has fulfilled one more poll promise for the welfare of tribal people in the State, she said in a press release. She said STs were unable to get various benefits, including 6% reservation, even as there was a common commission for SCs and STs. To address the issue of lack of access to STs to schemes, reservation and other welfare programmes Mr. Jagan had promised the establishment of a separate commission with the Centre’s approval. The new commission would help the government focus on STs and their issues in a much better way and ensure every concern was addressed. The ST Commission would be able to hear and take up cases of atrocities against STs and dispose of them in time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-to-have-separate-commission-for-sts/article33450017.ece
30 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSRCP silencing voices of dissent, alleges Naidu||TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu has termed TDP leader Nandam Subbaiah’s killing in Kadapa district as a “murder committed by the government” and held Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy responsible for the ghastly incident. “The Chief Minister should take steps to bring the culprits to book and ensure justice to the bereaved family,” Mr. Naidu said in a statement on Tuesday. “The YSRCP is resorting to killings in order to silence all voices of dissent. Subbaiah was targeted because he had exposed the ruling party MLA’s corruption and illegal activities at a press conference. The YSRCP leaders are bent on eliminating the leaders belonging to the Backward Classes and the weaker sections,” he alleged. “Many TDP activists have been eliminated in the last 19 months. A.P. has turned into a den of criminals. Subbaiah’s murder revealed how law and order has collapsed in State,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysrcp-silencing-voices-of-dissent-alleges-naidu/article33450025.ece
30 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Crime rate in Krishna district down, says SP||The rate of various crimes, law and order violations have come down in 2020 compared with the previous year in Krishna district. Addressing the annual press conference at Machilipatnam, Superintendent of Police M. Ravindranath Babu said 8,887 FIRs were registered this year against 9,765 registered the previous year. He said while theft cases (478) came down by 22%, night burglaries (99) came down by 47%, day burglaries (31) came down by 32%, kidnapping cases (121) came down by 16%, rape cases (77) came down by 14%, fatal road accidents (256) came down by 18% and non-fatal road accidents (479) came down by 37%. Also, cases of murder (32) came down by 34%. As many as 1,292 cases of crime against women were reported this year, while 1,390 cases were registered last year, and 450 missing cases and 829 cases of unnatural deaths were registered. Property worth Rs. 3.52 crore was stolen and Rs. 1.89 crore property had been recovered. COVID violations A total of 3,726 cases of COVID violations were reported, and only 223 of them were pending with courts while 3,496 cases were disposed of. With the government laying special focus on liquor violation, 6,011 cases against violators were registered and 8,962 persons were arrested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/crime-rate-in-krishna-district-down-says-sp/article33450076.ece
30 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Mumbai flights from Jan. 12||IndiGo Airlines will start its first service between Mumbai and Vijayawada starting from January 12. Three flights per week on Tuesdays, Thursdays and Saturdays will be operated by the airline between the two cities. Airport Director G. Madhusudhana Rao said that the new flight service comes as a Sankranti gift to people of the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mumbai-flights-from-jan-12/article33450078.ece
30 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Provide security to former MLA’||TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu has written a letter to the Director General of Police (DGP), urging him to ensure the safety of party leader J.C. Prabhakar Reddy and his family members by providing them adequate security. “It is loathsome to see Tadipatri MLA K. Pedda Reddy leading his henchmen into the house of Mr. Prabhakar Reddy with deadly weapons. The MLA himself had attacked and beat Dasari Kiran, a computer operator working at Mr. Prabhakar Reddy’s house,” Mr. Naidu alleged in his letter. “The incident is a clear instance of deteriorating law and order in the State, with a section of the police conniving with the ruling party leaders,” he alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/provide-security-to-former-mla/article33450023.ece
30 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Celebrate New Year eve at home, police officials urge people||In the wake of the possible spread of COVID-19 and alert given by the health officials over detection of new strain of the coronavirus from the United Kingdom (U.K), the city police have appealed to people to celebrate New Year eve at home. The police also said that no special permissions will be given for December 31st night parties to hotels, function halls and other establishments. According to Commissioner of Police Manish Kumar Sinha, forming of groups on roads, cake cuttings, bursting of crackers and celebrations in public places are not allowed. He said that commercial establishments and shops should close by 10 p.m. on December 31. Similarly, as per the government order, wine shops should close by 8 p.m., while bars and restaurants will be allowed to remain open till 11 p.m. “Strict action will be initiated against those, who are teasing women, driving in a drunken state, causing inconvenience to fellow citizens and creating any form of public nuisance on New Year eve,” the police said. The city police said that action would be taken against those driving without helmets and without wearing seat belt in cars. According to a senior police official, there would be restrictions at Beach Road from Park Hotel Junction to Naval Coastal Battery (NCB), apart from flyovers at Asilametta and NAD flyover. A final decision is yet to be taken, he added. In the Agency areas, the district police have already said that no permissions will be given to organise parties outside and appealed to the public to celebrate the New Year at home.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/celebrate-new-year-eve-at-home-police-officials-urge-people/article33450092.ece
30 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Draw up plans on power demand: Energy Secretary||Energy Secretary and APTransco CMD Nagulapalli Srikant has conducted a workshop with officials of the APTransco and officials of five districts of APEPDCL here, on the future development projects in the Transco and discoms. The Superintending Engineers of Srikakulam, Vizianagaram, Visakhapatnam, East and West Godavari districts gave a PowerPoint presentation on the developments in their respective districts. Mr. Srikant instructed the officials to draw future plans foreseeing capacity and peak demand for the next five years for providing quality and reliable power to consumers. He asked them to prepare automation plans for sub-stations, feeders, and strengthening of network, construction of new sub-stations, changing of lines and adoption of new technology required. He asked them to prepare the new budgetary estimates for the plans. He instructed the officials to provide nine-hour daytime free power supply for agriculture apart from providing uninterrupted 24 x 7 quality and reliable power supply to all consumers and industries. He directed them to complete the installation of smart meters to agricultural services under YSR Uchita Vyavasaaya Vidyut Padhakam. He asked the officials to take steps to minimise transmission losses and thereby increase the revenue of the discom. Chairman and Managing Director of AP EPDCL Nagalakshmi Selvarajan, Joint Managing Director/APTRANSCO K. Sridhar Reddy, Joint Managing Director/ Vigilance & Security K. Venkateswara Rao, Directors K. Praveen Kumar, K. Muthu Pandyan, AP EPDCL Directors K. Rajabapaiah, B. Ramesh Prasad and D. Chandram were among those who were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/draw-up-plans-on-power-demand-engineers-told/article33450081.ece
30 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tribals take out rally against Maoists||A large number of tribals from Dumbriguda and Araku mandals took out a rally against Maoists to protest the recent killing of two tribals in Visakhapatnam district, on Tuesday. Locals from interior villages of Tutangi, Rangilisingi, Guntaseema, Gantagannela, Gasaba and several villagers from Araku took part in the rally. Holding placards and banners against Maoists, the tribals raised slogans against them. The rally started from Bhallaguda area to Chaparai. A human chain was also formed by the tribals near Dumbriguda Junction The tribals condemned the killing of innocent tribals by Maoists to protect their identity. They also alleged that the presence of Maoists was coming in the way of development of tribal areas. They also alleged that the extremists were threatening contractors, who were coming forward to lay roads and set up cell towers. Maoists are also destroying the machinery of the contractors, the tribals alleged. The tribals alleged that contrary to their claims of working for the locals, the Maoists were planting landmines, sometimes killing the tribals and their cattle. In the name of developing the agency, the rebels are indulging in ganja smuggling, they alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tribals-take-out-rally-against-maoists/article33450088.ece
30 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||U.K. returnees not tested positive so far, says Collector||District Collector V. Vinay Chand has said that the administration is taking all measures in the wake of possible spread of the new strain of coronavirus. He said that none of the United Kingdom (U.K) returnees had tested positive till date and the test results of some of the patients are awaited. Addressing a press conference here on Tuesday, Mr. Vinay Chand said that between November 28 and December 25, as many as 216 persons had arrived to Visakhapatnam district from the U.K. Among them, 209 were identified and COVID-19 tests were conducted. Seven persons had gone out of the district, he said. “Out of the 209 U.K returnees, who got tested, we received the results of 192 persons. All of them had tested negative,” he said. The Collector also said that the Health Department had also conducted tests to 580 more persons, who are in contact with the U.K returnees. Out of the 580 tests, results of 390 are out and all had tested negative, he said. “If any one tests COVID-19 positive, their sample will be again collected and further sent for tests to labs in Hyderabad and Pune,” he added.  41 new cases The district reported 41 new COVID-19 infections in the last 24 hours taking the tally to 59,620, according to the COVID-19 bulletin released on Wednesday. The toll stands at 522 as no death was reported during the period. Similarly, 43 persons had completely recovered in the past one day, said the bulletin. The number of active cases and recoveries stands at 251 and 58,847 respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/uk-returnees-not-tested-positive-so-far-says-collector/article33450090.ece
30 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Take steps to check plastic pollution in Agency: MLA||Paderu MLA K. Bhagyalakshmi expressed concern over the growing plastic menace due to the increase in tourist footfall in the Agency areas of Visakhapatnam district and stressed on the need to take immediate measures for protection of the environment. She was speaking at a meet organised by the Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA) to elicit opinions of various stakeholders over issues of sanitation and pollution at tourist spots in the Agency, at Lambasingi of Chintapalle mandal in Visakhapatnam district, on Wednesday. ITDA Project Officer S. Venkateswar cautioned that if the plastic pollution issue is not addressed there would be health problems. He asked the tribals to prevent plastic usage at weekly-shandies.  District Tourism Officer Purnima Devi, police officials, social workers and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/take-steps-to-check-plastic-pollution-in-agency-mla/article33450093.ece
30 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Time to move on to the FASTag lane||With barely two days to go for the mandatory implementation of FASTag, there is only around 80% compliance in Visakhapatnam region. Motorists with FASTag will be saved the hassle of waiting in queues at toll plazas, while those not taking it have to pay double the charge. “We are conducting dry runs at the toll plazas on the benefits of taking the tag and the trouble one will have to face without it. Point of Sale (PoS) outlets have been set up by various banks at all the eight toll plazas under the jurisdiction of NHAI, Visakhapatnam. Motorists can get the tag from the PoS of any bank on submission of documents. They also have the option of downloading the Paytm after submitting the RC book,” NHAI Project Director P. Siva Sankar said. “The tag is universal and can be used at any NH toll plaza across the country,” Mr. Siva Sankar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/time-to-move-on-to-the-fastag-lane/article33450028.ece
30 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Input subsidy given to ryots in one month’||Tourism Minister M. Srinivasa Rao has said that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy released the third instalment of YSR Rythu Bharosa and input subsidy to farmers affected by Cyclone Nivar in a record one month after the devastation. Addressing the media here on Tuesday, he said paddy was destroyed in 7,567 ha and sugarcane in 9.3 hectares, affecting 37,474 farmers. The input subsidy released was Rs. 1,135 lakh, and for sugarcane Rs. 1.40 lakh. The third instalment under Rythu Bharosa in the district was Rs. 15.55 crore for paddy and Rs. 68.09 crore would be released to 3,40,446 farmers in the district under PM Kisan Yojana.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/input-subsidy-given-to-ryots-in-one-month/article33450029.ece
30 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Safety workshop concludes||A two-day safety workshop for regulatory authorities, organised jointly by the AP Pollution Control Board (APPCB) and the HPCL concluded here on Tuesday. The two-day workshop comprised technical sessions on the first day and field visit to HPCL on the second day. T. Rajendra Reddy, JCEEE and Ravindranath, SEE, APPCB Zonal Office, Visakhapatnam, B.V. Ram Prakash, DFO, Fire Services Department, and G. Ganeshwara Rao, Assistant Director, Dock Safety, participated in the inaugural session.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/safety-workshop-concludes/article33450086.ece
30 December 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jana Sena urges CM to fulfil poll promises||Activists of the JSP staged a protest here on Tuesday demanding that Chief Minister Y.S .Jagan Mohan Reddy fulfil his poll promises such as reopening of closed industries, establishment of tribal university and medical college. Senior party leader T. Ramakrishna Rao led the protest staged at RTC Complex. “Almost all irrigation projects, including the Tarakarama Teertha Sagar, have been neglected. Almost all jute mills have been closed. Their revival is being ignored by the government,” he alleged. “Many eligible people are being denied house sites. Only YSRCP activists have been selected under the scheme at the Gunkalam layout,” Mr. Ramakrishna Rao added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jana-sena-urges-cm-to-fulfil-poll-promises/article33450022.ece
30 December 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jagan to distribute pattas today||The district administration has made all arrangements for Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy’s public meeting at Gunkalam village on the outskirts of the city on Wednesday. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy will reach the venue by 11.10 a.m. and stay there till 1.30 a.m. He will distribute house site pattas to few women out of the 12,031 beneficiaries identified. Minister for Municipal Administration Botcha Satyanarayana, MLA K. Veerabhadra Swamy and senior officials inspected the meeting venue on Tuesday. They said that construction of houses would begin very soon at the layout. Visakhapatnam Range Deputy Inspector General L.K.V. Ranga Rao and Vizianagaram SP B. Rajakumari reviewed the security arrangements.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jagan-to-distribute-pattas-today/article33450020.ece
30 December 2020||VIZIANAGARAM/SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Idol vandalised at Ramateertham temple||A statue of Lord Rama atop the historic Ramateertham temple, located 12 km from Vizianagaram, was vandalised here on Tuesday, triggering tension in the area. BJP leaders from Vizianagaram and Srikakulam districts reached the temple and demanded that the culprits be arrested immediately. BJP leaders Reddi Pavani, Nadikuditi Eswara Rao and Teegala Haranath protested the incident and sought a high-level inquiry into the issue. Uttaradhana Sadhu Parishad leader Swami Srinivasananda alleged that there was no protection for Hindu temples. Prayers are performed every day to the statues of Lord Rama, Lord Lakshmana and Goddess Sita on the temple, also along with the main temple located in Ramateertham village. Along with the Sri Rama Navami celebrations at Vontimitta temple in Kadapa, the government also celebrates it at the Ramateertham temple here.Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy’s tour is scheduled in Vizianagaram on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/statue-vandalised-at-ramateertham-temple/article33449353.ece
30 December 2020||December 30 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Fun time||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/fun-time/article33450096.ece
30 December 2020||December 30 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Risky stretch||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/risky-stretch/article33450012.ece
30 December 2020||December 30 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Dessert time||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dessert-time/article33449357.ece
30 December 2020||December 30 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Religious fervour||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/religious-fervour/article33450031.ece
30 December 2020||December 30 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Post-harvest operation||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/post-harvest-operation/article33450035.ece
30 December 2020||December 30 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Prasad appointed BJP district general secretary||Prasad VSN Koppisetty has been appointed as BJP general secretary for Visakhapatnam Parliamentary District by the BJP State president Somu Veerraju. Three others Sivaji Raja Bahadur, Polimera Srinivas and Damodar Yadav are also appointed Visakhapatnam Parliamentary District general secretaries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/prasad-appointed-bjp-district-general-secretary/article33450085.ece
30 December 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Many sympathisers surrender||As many as 39 Maoist militia and village committee members surrendered before the district police this year as against four Maoists, who gave themselves up before the police last year. In May this year, six members of the Revolutionary People’s Committee (RPC) of the outlawed CPI (Maoist) from the interior Kurnapalli village turned themselves in before the Charla police. A total of 33 militia and village committee members of the banned organisation surrendered before Superintendent of Police Sunil Dutt in the district headquarters town of Kothagudem in November this year, police said. They hailed from two border villages Battinapalli and Kistarampadu in Charla mandal. They were allegedly involved in separate incidents of Maoist violence, including blasting of a road and torching of road construction equipment in the Agency mandal, police added. Police claimed that they quit the violent path “disillusioned” with the Maoist ideology. Since September this year, as many as six Maoists were killed in five separate incidents of “exchange of fire” (EoFs) with the police in the district, police added. Two key Maoists, including Dudi Devalu alias Shankar of the rank of the area committee member (ACM) and the Charla Local Guerrilla Squad (LGS) commander Sodi Jogaiah, were among those killed in the “exchange of fire” in Gundala and Charla mandals in September this year. Last year, two Maoists were killed in two separate “EoFs” in the district. As many as 106 persons including Maoists, the alleged couriers and sympathisers of the banned outfit were arrested in various parts of the district this year. The forest areas along the inter-district border with Chhattisgarh saw escalation of tension in the fag-end of the year following the renewed attempts by the Maoists to gain a foothold in the forested region of Bhadrachalam Agency and the stepped up anti-Maoist operations by the police. In October, Maoists allegedly killed a villager from neighbouring Mulugu district identified as Eshwar by branding him as a “police informer” at Gorukonda in Charla mandal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/many-sympathisers-surrender/article33449927.ece
30 December 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||UG mine public hearing held||An environmental public hearing was conducted for change of technology from the Load, Haul and Dumper (LHD) operations to the Continuous Miner method in the existing Padmavathi Khani 5 incline underground mine of the Singareni Collieries Company Limited (SCCL) at Rudrampur in Chunchupalli mandal on Tuesday. The public hearing was held under the aegis of the Telangana State Pollution Control Board (TSPCB) as per the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change (MoEF&CC)’s notification dated April 6, 2018, under the environmental clearance re-validation category as per the standard terms of reference, SCCL sources said. The PK 5 incline existing underground coal mine still has 9.315 million tonnes of coal reserves and 10 years lifespan up to 2029-30. Coal to the tune of 40.005 million tonnes has already been extracted from the underground mine, sources added. Speaking on the occasion, SCCL General Manager, Kothagudem Area, Ch Narasimha Rao enumerated the growth plans of the State-owned SCCL and the environmental protection measures and the CSR activities. Participating in the public hearing, some of the elected representatives of the local bodies and leaders of various organisations wanted the SCCL management to give publicity to the environmental public hearings to ensure active participation of all stakeholders in the process and make the public consultation exercise more meaningful. Additional Collector Venkateshwarlu presided over the public hearing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ug-mine-public-hearing-held/article33449931.ece
30 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Police scuttle Maoists’ attempt to regain strength||Normally, police face challenges from criminals. But the year 2020 threw up tests to police in the form of COVID-19 pandemic from third month, followed by floods due to heavy rains in State capital six months later. While floods and rains killed 33 in and around Hyderabad, close to 1,500 lives were lost to coronavirus. In Hyderabad police alone, 3,000 policemen contracted COVID-19. Thirty-nine of them died. Attending to COVID-19-related duties like security arrangements and rescuing citizens trapped in inundated areas apart, they had to carry out their prime responsibility of preventing and detecting crime. Road accident figures dipped, apparently due to lock-down for consecutive three months. Despite the decline, the road accident death numbers are still frightening. Left wing extremism, once a serious law and order problem in Telangana, was almost wiped out. With no instances of their movement for past few years, many believed so. Suddenly, there is a spurt of the outlawed CPI(Maoist) albeit in northern districts of the State like Kumram Bheem Asifabad, Bhadradri Kothagudem, Mulugu and Jayashankar Bhupalpally. Alerts about their presence came in March and April. Alarmed by the situation, DGP M. Mahender Reddy flew to those areas in July and had strategic meetings with the local police. Combing by special parties and Greyhound commandos was stepped up. Remote villages and interior forest areas of these districts witnessed intensified searches for next few weeks, with intermittent exchanges of fire between Maoists and police parties. CPI(Maoist) Telangana State Committee member Adellu alias Bhaskar and his squad members escaped from police in some EoF incidents. In September, police gunned down eight Maoists, six in Bhadradri Kothagudem and two in Kumram Bheem Asifabad, in different EoF instances. In retaliation, Maoists killed a civilian closely associated with ruling TRS party in Venkatapuram of Bhadradri Kohtagudem. A few days later, two more Maoists died in an EoF with police in Mulugu district. This was followed by Maoists killing another civilian in Mallampalli of Mulugu district. The battle between police determined to check left wing extremists and Maoists desperate to regain their strength indicated that it is unlikely to end in near future. While this fight was at its peak in September in northern part of the State, a caste-pride murder in IT hub area of Gachibowli in city attracted wide attention. A youngster Hemanth Kumar was kidnapped and murdered allegedly by his wife’s family members and close relatives. Incidentally, the prime accused in a near similar heinous offence involving caste pride in Nalgonda, Maruthi Rao, ‘ended his life’ in Visya Bhavan in Hyderabad six months earlier.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/police-scuttle-maoists-attempt-to-regain-strength/article33449922.ece
30 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||CCMB calls for enhanced genome sequencing||With confirmation of the presence of the new variant of coronavirus SARS-CoV-2 that causes COVID-19 in two cases referred to it, the Centre for Cellular & Molecular Biology (CCMB) on Tuesday called for expediting viral genome sequencing efforts and surveillance to asses the extent of its spread. “There is a need to expedite the viral genome sequencing efforts to further check the prevalence of the new variant in India. We have used the traditional ‘Sanger’ sequencing method as well as the modern Next-Gen sequencing tools in testing for the presence here from samples collected among international travellers from United Kingdom,” said CCMB scientist Divya Tej Sowpati leading the coronavirus genome sequencing efforts at the institute here. 60% of all infections The variant was first reported in the UK in September and makes up for 60% of all coronavirus infections there. By tracing and testing 33,000 passengers, who have flown in to India from the UK, India was able to confirm its presence here. CCMB is one of the 10 research institutes tracking and tracing the new variant in the country. The scientist explained that the new variant showed 17 mutations in its genetic material and of these, eight affect its ‘Spike protein’, which expresses on its outer surface, and binds to the receptors in the host cells. One of the mutations is believed to enhance the binding between the virus and the receptors, thus, facilitating its entry into the host cells. No setback to vaccine The mutations have, however, not worsened the symptoms or the disease outcomes. They are also not an impediment to the vaccine development, and testing protocols also remains the same. The only problem is that the new variant spreads more easily than the others, he said. “The measures to avoid infection still remain the same. Using masks when in presence of others, avoiding crowded places, maintaining physical distancing are the most effective and feasible ways for avoiding this virus, including the new variant,” reiterated CCMB Director Rakesh Mishra. The director also said it is “very important to launch an extensive genome surveillance of the virus to assess the extent of the spread of the new virus. We should also keep an eye on other variants that might emerge independently, as India houses the second largest population infected by this virus, at present.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ccmb-calls-for-enhanced-genome-sequencing/article33449893.ece
30 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||COVID lockdown aids road infra projects in Hyderabad||The lockdown imposed on account of the COVID-19 pandemic, despite denting the revenues of GHMC, proved to be a blessing in disguise when it came to projects and maintenance of road infrastructure during the year 2020. Quite a few projects which had remained unfinished due to lack of road clearance could be expedited due to curfew imposed during lockdown, and deserving the foremost mention among such projects is the cable-stayed bridge on Durgam Cheruvu. The 735.639-metre bridge connecting Jubilee Hills with the Hitech City was finished and inaugurated during the Unlock phase of the lockdown period, with an expenditure of Rs. 184 crore. It was built as part of the Rs. 25,000 crore Strategic Road Development Plan (SRDP). Other projects which were completed during 2020 under the SRDP include the flyovers on Road No.45, at Biodiversitiy Junction, LB Nagar Junction, and Nagole Junction, besides an underpass at the LB Nagar Junction. Road widening in Amberpet, Balanagar, and Uppal areas too has been taken up after property acquisition, in coordination with Roads & Buildings, and HMDA. In order to develop alternative road network in the city with least component of property acquisition, the corporation’s Town Planning wing has led the design and development of missing link roads during the year. In the first phase, a total of 37 stretches constituting missing links between major thoroughfares have been identified, which have been handed over to the Hyderabad Road Development Corporation (HRDCL) for development. Road maintenance One more infrastructural service to have benefited from the lockdown was Comprehensive Road Maintenance Project, under which 709 km of major road stretches have been handed over for private maintenance for five years, with a cost of Rs. 1,839 crore. Taking advantage of the lockdown, the concessionaire agencies have started re-carpeting, lane marking, footpath maintenance, and other works on 300 km of road stretches, a statement from GHMC informed. Of them, re-carpeting of 250 km has been completed before April 31. As part of the junction beautification project, the junctions at Ashoknagar, Purana Pul, Rajiv Gandhi Statue, Ramantapur, Kawadiguda, Suchitra, IDPL, Liberty, Necklace Road, Neredmet, Miyapur, L.B.Nagar, AS Rao Nagar, Uppal, Ali Cafe, Praga Tools and Borabanda busstop have been developed. On the Sanitation front, GHMC has decided to start Secondary Collection & Transport points or mini garbage transfer stations at 60 locations. Accordingly, a total of 197 modern vehicles including self compactors, high capacity automated static compactors, and high capacity sealed containers have been procured, the statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/covid-lockdown-aids-road-infra-projects-in-the-city/article33449915.ece
30 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Singareni to fill all vacancies over next 6 months||The management of Singareni Collieries Company Ltd (SCCL) has decided to fill all the vacancies in the organisation over the next six month by taking up recruitment process. This was stated by Chairman and Managing Director of the company N. Sridhar on Tuesday during the 46th tripartite safety conference held here with the representatives of the managements, Director-General of Mines Safety and recognised workers unions and officers union. He assured the meeting that the company would give utmost importance to safety, irrespective of expenses. When representatives of workers unions suggested that job vacancies of technical staff, supervisors, medical staff, including specialist doctors, needed to be filled in many mines, the CMD explained that over 16,000 vacancies were filled through direct recruitment, compensatory jobs and internal postings over the last five years and recruitment would be taken up to fill all the vacancies over the next six months. Stating that there were many qualified candidates in the new appointments already and based on the instructions of the Chief Minister the quota for internal employees in filling higher posts would be increased. Reiterating that there would be no expense spared for purchase of safety equipment and safety measures. Two simulators as part of heavy vehicle operators’ training and other required training equipment were already in place. As part of preventing COVID spread 60,000 rapid test kits were procured. He also complimented the efforts of directors S. Chandrashekar, N. Balaram and the medical staff in implementing the COVID prevention measures. Speaking on the occasion, DGMS Malay Tikedar suggested the managers of all mines of SCCL to hold safety meetings on a regular basis. Meanwhile, intensifying its efforts for the establishment of floating solar plants SCCL officials led by Director (E&M) D. Satyanarayana visited Lower Manair Dam on Monday. The Renewable Energy Development Corporation has recently submitted a feasibility report for setting up 350 megawatt solar plants in LMD as its water spread area at full reservoir level would be 82 square km and only 12.5 square km would be needed for the floating solar panels.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/singareni-to-fill-all-vacancies-over-next-6-months/article33449929.ece
30 December 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Crimes against women down in Cyberabad||Cyberabad commissionerate, having its jurisdiction extended over 3,644 sq. km in Rangareddy, Medchal-Malkajgiri and Sangareddy districts and which employs lakhs of women workforce, has recorded a slump of 18 % in crimes against women when compared to the previous year. This year, police registered 2,302 cases pertaining to crime against women compared to 2,830 last year. Even cases related to crime against children, especially Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act have declined by 12 %. The significant fall could be attributed to changed circumstances due to COVID-19 lockdown. However, the overall crime rate has seen a jump of 6.65 % during the period under review from previous year figures, Commissioner of Police V.C. Sajjanar said while presenting the annual report here on Tuesday. So far the Cyberabad police have registered 24,868 cases as against 23,320 booked last year. The Commissioner attributed the rise in the crime rate due to transparency and increased approachability of the police, due to which victims are coming forward to report the crime. With the sudden transition of work from home due to COVID-19 pandemic, this year cyber crime cases have gone up by 135 % in the commissionerate just like neighbouring Hyderabad and Rachakonda commissionerates. A total of 477 cases were recorded last year and 1,119 were reported in 2020, he said, and added that only 7% of the cases were detected while the recovery of property was just 1.4 %. “The percentage of detection and recovery in cyber crime cases are low because of the pan-India nature of the crimes, and there is a huge need of men and material resources for every case,” Mr. Sajjanar said. Even the cases related to economic offences have gone up by 42 % with 1,448 cases being reported this year as against 840 in 2019. According to the Commissioner, the constant vigil on anti-social elements and habitual offenders, cases of robbery, burglaries, ordinary theft, murder, kidnapping, rape, rioting and crime against weaker section have seen a reduction this year. There was a slight increase in culpable homicide and cheating cases due to various issues post COVID-19, he said. Further appreciating the efforts of Special Operation Team led by Additional DCP Gone Sandeep in detection of cases, Mr. Sajjanar said that the team had apprehended 2,830 persons in 1,328 cases and recovered property worth Rs. 19.54 crore. “Even they coordinate with police of other States and monitor the movements of inter-State criminals. They also apprehended a dacoity gang from Nepal,” he said. Stating that safety of women and children continues to remain a top priority, the officer said that dedicated Dial 100 response teams inaugurated in July have so far attended 491 emergency calls and rescued two women who attempted to end their lives. “Similarly, our teams are doing a remarkable job rescuing children under Operation Smile and Operation Muskaan,” he said. Earlier, Shamshabad DCP N Prakash Reddy said that during COVID-19 lockdown they managed to send over 30,000 passengers, who arrived from various parts of the world, to various quarantine centres. “And even during the recent floods our people took part in evacuation and relief efforts,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/crimes-against-women-down-in-cyberabad/article33449906.ece
30 December 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Uttam declares battle on KCR’s decision on procurement||Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee announced the schedule for a massive agitation against the decision of TRS government to shut down the procurement centres in villages starting with protests in all mandal headquarters across Telangana from December 30 to January 8 next year. TPCC president N. Uttam Kumar Reddy said at a press conference that protests woulld be held at all district headquarters on January 11 and a State-level protest will be held on January 18. He said a round table conference would also be held in the next two-three days. Earlier he held a meeting with CLP leader Mallu Bhatti Vikramarka, MLC Jeevan Reddy, MLAs Sridhar Babu and Jagga Reddy, TPCC working president Ponnam Prabhakar and other office bearers of Kisan Congress. The meeting was coordinated by All India Kisan Congress vice chairman Kodanda Reddy and Telangana Kisan Congress chairman Anvesh. Mr. Reddy said the meeting had a detailed discussion on the recent decisions taken by Chief Minister K. Chandrashekhar Rao and their impact on farmers of Telangana. The meeting condemned the decision to wind up all procurement centres and said that KCR has no moral to continue on the post of Chief Minister. The TPCC president said that a majority of population in Telangana was dependent on agriculture and the people do not need a government which is ignoring the farm sector. He alleged that CM KCR was implementing the new farm laws of BJP Government to benefit the corporates and hurt the interest of farmers. He reminded that the previous Congress government had established procurement centres in all villages in 2004.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/uttam-declares-battle-on-kcrs-decision-on-procurement/article33449925.ece
30 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||397 COVID cases on Monday||Telangana recorded 397 COVID cases on Monday, taking the total to 2,85,465. While 42,737 people underwent tests, results of 496 were awaited. Two more COVID-19 patients have died, pushing up the toll to 1,535. The new 397 cases include 92 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation region, 37 from Medchal Malkajgiri, 28 from Rangareddy and 25 from Karimnagar. The lowest of two cases each were detected from Narayanpet, Vikarabad, Jogulamba Gadwal and Medak. Of the 42,737 people who underwent the tests on Monday, a total of 40,232 opted for government laboratories and 2,505 got examined at private labs. From March 2, when the first case was recorded, till December 28, a total of 67,93,691 samples were examined and 2,85,465 have tested positive for novel coronavirus. Of the total cases, 5,999 were active while 2,77,931 have recovered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/397-covid-cases-on-monday/article33449888.ece
30 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Eatala seeks supply of medical devices at lower cost||Health Minister Eatala Rajender has requested representatives of companies which manufacture medical devices to support the government in its efforts to provide medical services to people who opt for organ transplantation and other health complications. Some organ transplantations cost around Rs. 30 lakh to Rs. 40 lakh in private hospitals. However, the services are provided free of cost at government hospitals. At a meeting held at the State Health Campus in Koti on Tuesday, he has appealed the representatives to provide good machines at lesser price. A proposal to buy three MRI machines, 11 CT scan machines, and three cardiac cathlabs was prepared. Technical details, maintenance and costs were discussed at the meeting. Mr Rajender has suggested that it is better to buy machines which are used to provide services to large number of patients. The meeting was attended by Principal Secretary of Health and Family Welfare department Syed Ali Murtaza Rizvi, Telangana State Medical Services and Infrastructure Development Corporation’s managing director Chandrasekhar Redddy, Director of Medical Education K Ramesh Reddy, superintendents of tertiary care government hospitals and heads of medical departments in the hospitals. At another meeting, the initiative to construct five operation theatres (OT) for organ transplantations at Gandhi Hospital was discussed. The OTs would be built at a cost of Rs. 35 crore. Mr Rajender said liver and kidney transplantations would be offered at Gandhi Hospital in nine months. This is not the first time the announcement about the OTs was made. The initiative is being mulled from at least two years.  Liver and kidney transplantations would be offered at Gandhi Hospital in nine months. Five operation theatres for the purpose would be built at a cost of Rs. 35 crore. Eatala Rajender, Health Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/eatala-seeks-supply-of-medical-devices-at-lower-cost/article33449890.ece
30 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Two samples with new virus variant genome-sequenced||Of the six samples collected from UK returnees which have been found positive for new variant of coronavirus, genome sequencing of two samples was conducted at Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB) here. Of the two, one is from Telangana and another from Andhra Pradesh. From December 9, a total of 1,216 people who arrived in Telangana from UK and 21 had tested positive for coronavirus till Monday evening. Besides, three immediate contacts of at least 18 of them too were detected with COVID-19. Samples collected from them were sent to CCMB for genome sequencing to know if they were carrying the new variant of coronavirus. On Tuesday morning, Ministry of Health and Family Welfare stated in a press release, “A total of 6 samples of 6 UK returnee persons have been found to be positive with the new U.K variant genome. 3 in NIMHANS, Bengaluru, 2 in CCMB, Hyderabad and 1 in NIV, Pune (sic)”. Reports of genome sequencing of more samples would be sent by CCMB. Telangana Health Minister Eatala Rajender said the new variant is not dangerous. Director of Public Health G. Srinivasa Rao was scheduled to address a press conference on Tuesday afternoon, but it was cancelled. 156 yet to be traced Of the 1,216 people who have arrived in Telangana from the UK, 156 remained untraceable till Monday evening as the addresses and contact numbers provided were incorrect. Dr Srinivasa Rao has earlier appealed to people who have returned from UK or via UK after December 9 to provide their details by calling on 040-24651119, or send them through Whatsapp on 91541-70960. Samples for coronavirus tests would be collected from their home.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/two-samples-with-new-virus-variant-genome-sequenced/article33449891.ece
30 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Voluntary organisation saves 33 fully grown trees at Tellapur||Thirty-three fully grown trees aged more than 10 years and permitted for felling officially for road widening on the Nallagandla-Tellapur road stretch have been saved and relocated safely. Vata Foundation, a non-governmental organisation specialising in trees translocation, was once again in the act, moving 16 trees to a private land in Shankarpally and an equal number to another plot in Shamshabad. Donations raised The trees are of ‘Peltophorum’ family and a fairly popular ornamental tree grown around the world. “It took about a week for our volunteers to shift them to the private lands on the request of the land owners. We raised about Rs. 60,000 as donations from the residents of the nearby communities and others to transport them. All the trees had outgrown their tree guards,” said founder trustee P. Uday Krishna on Tuesday. Apparently, there have been more than 100 trees on the road and, in stages, most of them have been allowed to be chopped off in recent months. Some of the trees had survived and could get a fresh lease of life due to the support of the some of the residents and initiative shown by a few officials of the Roads & Buildings department along with the municipal corporation. Secretariat trees With regard to the stalled work on tree translocation inside the Secretariat, the Foundation has been asked to participate in a tender called for transport of the giant trees to the chosen sites. “We have clearly told the authorities that we do voluntary work based on public donations and hence, there is no question of participating in the tender. The trees are standing as of now and they are looking at other options,” said Mr. Uday Krishna. The huge trees inside the Secretariat need a big crane and multi-wheeled trailer for translocation. “We have been doing the trimming of branches and roots as well as digging the trees marked for translocation but the transport has been expensive so we have requested the department concerned to provide us the heavy vehicles required if we are to return to the site,” he added. Earlier this month, the Foundation walked out after shifting 18 trees when it was asked to pay Rs. 1,000 each for eight trees, marked for felling, but were “illegally translocated” along with the 10 trees that were officially permitted for translocation!||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/voluntary-organisation-saves-33-fully-grown-trees-at-tellapur/article33449895.ece
30 December 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Get over big vehicle syndrome’||With a steady increase in road accidents involving drunk drivers, the Cyberabad Commissioner of Police V.C. Sajjanar equates them to no less short of a terrorist mindlessly mowing down precious lives. He said such drivers would be dealt with harshest punishments with a maximum jail term of 10 years. Despite efforts to deter and wean away drunk driving, increase in accidents under influence of alcohol in the recent past is a cause of concern, he said. “As zero tolerance against tippler drivers causing fatal road accidents, we started booking them under Section 304-II (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) of the Indian Penal Code for which the punishment involves imprisonment up to 10 years,” he said on Tuesday. Referring to the recent road accident at Wipro junction where five youngsters were killed, Mr. Sajjanar said that they have registered a case against the car driver, and not on the tipper driver, as the youngster jumped the red signal under the influence of alcohol and rammed the heavy vehicle which was coming in the right direction. “We have to get over the ‘big vehicle’ syndrome and start scientific investigation. In every big vehicle, drivers are not at fault, accidents happen even due to the mistake of small vehicle drivers,” he said. Earlier, Traffic DCP S.M.Vijay Kumar said that this year there was a sharp decline of 23% in fatal road accidents as people were not moving out of roads in huge numbers due to COVID-19 lockdown and road safety interventions launched by the police on vulnerable roads. According to him, fatal road accidents have nosedived from 809 in 2019 with 861 deaths to this year’s 624 accidents in which 663 persons have lost their lives. “Over 55 % of the victims are those travelling on two-wheelers, and 28% are pedestrians,” he said. “Highest number of fatalities are occurring on national highways, followed by R&B and GHMC roads. He said that all the 124 blackspots were inspected by police and other stakeholders, and after a scientific study a proposal for remedial measures was submitted to the departments concerned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/get-over-big-vehicle-syndrome/article33449907.ece
30 December 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||MP Santosh presents book on environment to KTR||Rajya Sabha MP and TRS general secretary Joginipalli Santosh Kumar presented his book “Vriksha Vedam” to TRS working president and Minister K.T. Rama Rao here on Tuesday. The book, published in Telugu, English and Hindi, focusses on the improved green cover and natural beauty in Telangana due to the Haritha Haram drive by the government and the Green India Challenge initiated by Mr. Santosh Kumar. Mr. Rama Rao said the book brings a lot of joy to environmental lovers and also creates awareness on greenery among the people. He congratulated Mr. Santosh KUmar on the Green India Challenge that has caught up across the country with top politicians, filmstars, industrialists, sportspersons and green warriors endorsing it. Minister Srinivas Goud and Government Chief Whip Vinay Bhaskar were also present. Meanwhile, actor Pragna Jaiswal planted three saplings, responding to the Green India challenge given to her by Payal Rajput as a part of the Green India Challenge. She stated that it was the duty of all citizens to improve oxygen availability in the environment which was being depleted due to deforestation and global warming.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/mp-santosh-presents-book-on-environment-to-ktr/article33449900.ece
30 December 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Area near dump yard turns accident spot||Early morning fog, leachate from the municipal dump yard, potholes and a zigzagging stretch triggered a series of freak accidents on the Malkaram-Jawaharnagar road on Tuesday morning. However, nobody was injured in the mishaps on Tuesday where a small carrier vehicle flipped over, as did two cars while a municipal dumper lost balance. “Yesterday one old lady fell off the bike and her right arm was skinned. That was just one accident. The accidents have become frequent over the last 15 days,” said Ratnamma, who runs a small tea stall near the road junction. “We just filled up the pothole which had caused a few accidents,” said a civic official on the spot in the afternoon ruling out any role of leachate for the accidents. A motorpump to drain the dark pool of water on the road and two earthmovers to spread a layer of sand were deployed by the municipality as a measure to bring stability to moving vehicles. The officials also positioned barricades to slow down vehicles. Local residents challenged the point about the potholes leading to accidents. “The lecheate from the lake is spilling on to the road. Even now you can see pools of the dark coloured liquid which looks like water but is a greasy spread over the road,” said Keshav, who posted a video of the accidents earlier in the day. The water in the bigger lake with dry stumps of trees looks like oil with a florid pink layer formed by bacteria that thrive in untreated water. This water spilled over to the road leading to accidents. A rancid odour hangs in the air by evening that becomes overpowering and stays that way till morning. The smog and dust reduce visibility both in the morning and evening, says Keshav. Everyday, the road is used by hundreds of heavy dumpers carrying municipal waste from across the city. According to an estimate, nearly 6,000 tonnes of garbage is carted from the city to the Jawaharnagar dumpyard. “My shop is nearly 2 km from the dumpyard but we get the foul smell through the day and night. I live nearby and the smell is worse there,” said Ratnakar, who has been running a medical store in Balaji Nagar area for the past three years. In November, Hyderabad MSW Energy Solutions, a special purpose vehicle of Ramky Enviro Engineers commissioned 19.8 MW waste-to-energy plant in Phase-I at the dumpyard.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/area-near-dump-yard-turns-accident-spot/article33449913.ece
30 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||FGG writes to Governor on Kaleshwaram project||The Forum for Good Governance (FGG) has observed that there is abnormal cost escalation and also lack of transparency and accountability in the execution of Kaleshwaram project and requested Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan to order for publication of a white paper on the project. In a letter addressed to the Governor on Tuesday, secretary of FGG, a not for profit organisation working with an objective to secure good governance at all levels by providing a platform for all well-meaning, public-spirited citizens to come together, M. Padmanabha Reddy said although they were not against the project their objections was regular cost escalation. “Irrigation Department is known for maintaining utmost secrecy in the expenditure on projects and overnight increase of estimates. Every pie spent on Kaleshwaram project is tax payers’ money and as such people have a right to know as to what is happening. Lack of transparency and accountability is giving scope for suspicion”, Mr. Padmanabha Reddy said in the letter written to the Governor. He said stories were making rounds that though the Kaleshwaram project was a boon for people of Telangana it was also becoming a boon to politicians, engineers and contractors. The project which was conceived in 2005 with an estimated cost of Rs. 17,875 crore was today costing Rs. 80,190 crore and is likely to increase Rs. 1.1 lakh crore, he said adding that “there is no end in sight to this project”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/fgg-writes-to-governor-on-kaleshwaram-project/article33449919.ece
30 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Covaxin Phase-III trials nearing 20k volunteers’||The ongoing Phase III-trial for Covaxin, the indigenous vaccine candidate for COVID-19 Hyderabad-based vaccine maker Bharat Biotech is developing in collaboration with ICMR-National Institute of Virology, is nearing 20,000 volunteers. “We are doing (the Phase III trial) in 26,000 people. As we speak, we are crossing 20,000 people already in the trial,” Bharat Biotech chairman and managing director Krishna Ella said while delivering the 9th Dr. Manohar V.N. Shirodkar Memorial Lecture virtually. His statement follows an announcement a week ago by the company that it has successfully recruited 13,000 volunteers across the country. It also assumes significance in the backdrop of some reports on how finding the requisite number of volunteers posed challenge at certain trial sites. The company had sought to highlight how with 26,000 volunteers it would be the largest Phase III efficacy trial ever conducted for any vaccine in the country. “This is probably the first efficacy trial in the developing world. We are really the safest vaccine and have had five publications in last six months,” Mr. Ella said. While not mentioning any timeline related to the trial, he said the vaccine availability was dependent on regulatory approval. An expert committee of the Drugs Controller General of India had recently put on hold an Emergency Use Authorisation filed by Bharat Biotech. The company has set up the first BSL-3 production facility for the vaccine, he said, adding the Covaxin has the lowest adverse effects at about 15%. Delivering the lecture, which is a part of the Endowment Lecture Series instituted by Rajkumari Indira Devi Dhanarajgiri and hosted by the Telangana Academy of Sciences, Mr. Ella traced the various vaccine developed by Bharat Biotech.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/covaxin-phase-iii-trials-nearing-20k-volunteers/article33449896.ece
30 December 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||NIPHM gets two new centres||Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar and Chevella MP Ranjit Reddy inaugurated the Pesticide Formulation and Residue Analytical Center at the National Institute of Plant Health Management (NIPHM) at Rajendranagar here through video conference. The Centre-set up facility with Rs. 17.54 crore will help the farmers understand the use of pesticides and their proper usage, and guide them in cultivation. Mr. Reddy asked scientists to create awareness among farmers on proper utilisation of pesticides so that the yields are better without the land being harmed. The Minister also inaugurated the Bio Control Laboratory at NIPHM set up at a cost of Rs. 14.18 crore. Union Minister of State for Agriculture Kailash Choudhary and NIPHM director-general Jayalakshmi were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/niphm-gets-two-new-centres/article33449479.ece
30 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||2 IPS officers promoted to the rank of DGP||Two IPS officers J. Purnachandra Rao and M. Gopi Krishna were promoted to the rank of Director General of Police on Tuesday. Mr. Purnachandra Rao was posted as Director General of Anti-Corruption Bureau while continuing as Director General, Vigilance and Enforcement. Mr. Gopi Krishna was posted as Commissioner, Printing and Stationery, while continuing in his present post as Director General, Telangana Special Protection Force, a government order said. Both of them met Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao later.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/2-ips-officers-promoted-to-the-rank-of-dgp/article33449909.ece
30 December 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Uttam on panel on Bangladesh liberation||Nalgonda MP N. Uttam Kumar Reddy has been appointed a member of the Congress’ committee to plan the celebrations of the 50th anniversary of the libertion of Bangladesh. The committee to be headed by former Defence Minister, A.K. Antony will plan and coordinate the activities of the celebrations of the 1971 war that liberated Bangladesh from Pakistan. Among the members are Punjab Chief Minister Amrinder Singh, former Lok Sabha Speaker Meira Kumar and Prithiviraj Chavan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/uttam-on-panel-on-bangladesh-liberation/article33449924.ece
30 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||General body meet held||The ninth general body meeting of Karimnagar Dairy was held on the dairy premises in Karimnagar on Monday where two dairy farmers K. Ravi of Rasoolpalli village in Bheemadevarapalli mandal and Ms. E. Padma of Muthyampet village in Mallial mandal were elected directors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/general-body-meet-held/article33449908.ece
30 December 2020||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||Kaleshwaram-like package demanded||Oustees of Kistarampally reservoir, part of the Dindi Lift Irrigation Scheme in Nampally mandal of Nalgonda district, submitted a representation to District Collector Prashant J Patil asking that they should be considered for Rehabilitation & Resettlement package similar to that offered to oustees of Mallanasagar project under the Kaleshwaram Lift Irrigation Project. The meeting of oustees with Mr. Patil, joined by Munugode legislator Komatireddy Rajagopal Reddy and others was convened on Tuesday at the Collectorate, days after tense situation and police action on the displaced at the project site. The oustees also staged a sit-in outside the Collectorate on Tuesday. According to a representation by the aggrieved oustees, more than 250 residents have to vacate their lands, for which only half of the compensation was paid more than two years ago. And market rates of land have skyrocketed since, making it almost difficult for purchase of new assets. “We should also be given R&R like the oustees of Mallanasagar and Kaleshwaram. And reservoir works should not resume till that package is assured,” they said. Mr. Patil said the issue of compensation and R&R package would be taken to the notice of the State government through Energy Minister G. Jagadish Reddy for directions. Additional collectors V. Chandra Shekar and Rahul Sharma, Superintendent of Police A.V. Ranganath and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/kaleshwaram-like-package-demanded/article33449928.ece
30 December 2020||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||TRS NRI leader found dead in New Jersey||Nallamada Devender Reddy, a native of Devarakonda in Nalgonda, a well-known face in the Telangana Rashtra Samithi affairs in the United States was found dead in his car in suspicious circumstances on Monday. According to reports by friends and family, Devender Reddy had reached his car outside his house at Edison township in New Jersey to get back a file or package at around 5.30 p.m. (EST). “He died while he was in his parked car outside the house. The incident suggested fire was involved, and it was too late by the time the neighbours rushed to rescue him,” coordinator in the TRS NRI Affairs, Mahesh Bigala, speaking to The Hindu said. Devender Reddy, he said, was “the TRS representative in New Jersey.” Mr. Bigala informed that the local police have opened a probe into the incident. He also added that TRS members in the U.S. were coordinating for further arrangements. Devender Reddy had first gone to the U.S. in the late 1990s. He is survived by his wife, daughter, and his aged mother here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/trs-nri-leader-found-dead-in-new-jersey/article33449878.ece
30 December 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Taking a firm step towards Atmanirbhar Bharat and Skill India with TiHAN-IIT||Union Education Mininster Ramesh Pokhriyal virtually laid the foundation stone for ‘TiHAN-IIT Hyderabad’, the country’s first test bed for Autonomous Navigation Systems (Terrestrial and Aerial) here at the IIT-Hyderabad campus on Tuesday, and said it was a step towards Atmanirbhar Bharat. The Department of Science and Technology, Government of India, has sanctioned Rs. 135 crore to IIT-H under the National Mission on Interdisciplinary Cyber-Physical Systems to set up a Technology Innovation Hub on Autonomous Navigation and Data Acquisition Systems (UAVs and RoVs). The Technology Innovation Hub on Autonomous Navigation Systems for Unmanned Aerial Vehicles and Remotely Operated Vehicles at IIT-H, known as ‘TiHAN Foundation’ has been incorporated as a Section-8 company by the institute in June 2020. Minister of State for Education Sanjay Dhotre, IIT-H Board of Governors chairperson B.V.R. Mohan Reddy and IIT-H director B.S. Murty were present. “TiHAN Foundation, established at IIT-H, is a multi-departmental initiative including researchers from electrical, computer science, mechanical and aerospace, civil, mathematics, and design at IIT-H with collaboration and support from reputed institutions and industry. It is a great step towards ‘Atmanibhar Bharat’, ‘Skill India’ and ‘Digital India’. With an essential focus on the research and development of interdisciplinary technologies in the specific domain area of Autonomous Navigation and Data Acquisition Systems, this hub focuses on addressing various challenges hindering the real-time adoption of unmanned autonomous vehicles for both terrestrial and aerial applications,” said Mr Pokhriyal. Safe environment Congratulating the TiHAN team, Prof. Murty said: “One major requirement to make unmanned and connected vehicles more acceptable to the consumer society is to demonstrate its performance in real-life scenarios. However, it may become dangerous. Especially in terms of safety, to directly use the operational roadway facilities as experimental test tracks for unmanned and connected vehicles. In general, both UAV and UGV testing may include crashes and collisions with obstacles, resulting in damage to costly sensors and other components. Hence, it is important to test new technologies developed in a safe, controlled environment before deployment.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/a-step-closer-to-atmanirbhar-bharat/article33449902.ece
30 December 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||BJP holds rasta roko||Demanding that the government fill the vacant posts, BJP Yuva Morcha held a dharna on national highway on Tuesday morning. A large number of party activists participated in the agitation and the traffic came to standstill for sometime.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bjp-holds-rasta-roko/article33450055.ece
30 December 2020||Mumbai,||Mumbai Cong. plans 100-day campaign ahead of BMC poll||The Mumbai Congress, in a bid to strengthen its base in the city, will organise a 100-day ‘My Mumbai, My Congress’ campaign in each of the 227 wards of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). The civic polls are likely to be held in 2022. The move comes a day after all Mumbai Congress leaders, including newly appointed MRCC president Bhai Jagtap, hinted that the party would go solo in the civic polls despite being part of the tripartite Maha Vikas Aghadi. The party has clarified that irrespective of its alliance with the Shiv Sena in the State government, it will not hesitate to oppose the Sena-ruled BMC , if need be. “The 100-day campaign is aimed at reconnecting the party with people. This campaign will also establish communication with party workers in each ward, will understand their problems and opinion, and ensure growth of the party,” H.K. Patil, Maharashtra in-charge of the Congress, said. He was addressing the first meeting of the Mumbai Congress working committee after the appointment of Mr. Jagtap as the unit president. Mr. Jagtap said that the campaign would give a clear picture about people’s opinion of the party, their real problems, and means to solve them. “A detailed report after the campaign will be submitted to the party leadership to solidify our demand to contest all 227 seats,” he said. He further said that many party workers had left the Congress to join the BJP and they had realised the dictatorial functioning of it. Mumbai Congress working president Charansingh Sapra said that the BMC election and the MVA government were two different things. “We are part of the State government but we are also the main opposition in the BMC,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/mumbai-cong-plans-100-day-campaign-ahead-of-bmc-poll/article33449565.ece
30 December 2020||Navi Mumbai,||Auto driver arrested for raping girl||The Panvel police on Monday morning arrested an autorickshaw driver for allegedly raping an 18-year-old girl from Chattisgarh, who had come to Mumbai to celebrate Christmas and the New Year. The victim, a dropout from Class X, is fond of solo trips. She decided to explore Mumbai on her own and first went to Delhi. She came to Mumbai on December 22 via train. “On December 26, she reached Panvel railway station. The next day, around 7 p.m., she hired an auto from the station area and asked the driver, Sachin Laltaprasad Sharma (26), to drop her at Gandhi garden,” senior police inspector Ajay Landge said. Mr. Sharma instead took her near the Wadghar river bank. He threatened to kill her with a piece of stone, and then raped her in the bushes and fled.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/auto-driver-arrested-for-raping-girl/article33449566.ece
30 December 2020||Patna,||Farmers lathi-charged by the police in Patna||Thousands of farmers who took out a rally in Patna on Tuesday against the recent farm laws, were baton-charged by the police and prevented from reaching the Raj Bhavan. A group of citizens in Gaya also sat on a fast at the city’s Shantibagh demanding scrapping of all three bills. The farmers had assembled at the Gandhi Maidan in the capital from several districts under the banners of the Akhil Bhartiya Kisan Mahasabha, Kisan Sangharsh Samanvay Samiti and Left parties. They then marched to the Raj Bhavan to submit a memorandum to the Governor against the farm laws. However, the police stopped the march midway at city’s main Dak Bungalow thoroughfare. The protesting farmers sat on the road and blocked traffic, raising slogans against the farm laws and the Centre for its “dictatorial move”. Later a scuffle broke out between the protesting farmers and policemen, who resorted to a baton charge and water cannons to disperse them. “To stop our march to Raj Bhavan when we wanted to go and present our memorandum to the Governor was injustice against farmers. Our protest march was peaceful but police used batons against us which is condemnable and unconstitutional,” said Ramadhar Singh, secretary of the State unit of Akhil Bhartiya Kisan Mahasabha said. “We also had come out on the streets of Patna to show our solidarity with the agitating farmers in Delhi and other parts of the country,” he added. Meanwhile, a group of over hundred people sat on a five-hour fast at Shantibagh in Gaya, demanding that the new farms bills be scrapped. “The government should scrap all three new farms laws as soon as possible. We also have come to sit on a protest fast to show our solidarity with agitating farmers at Delhi border and in other parts of the country,” Omair Khan leading the group told The Hindu over phone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/farmers-lathi-charged-by-the-police-in-patna/article33449664.ece
30 December 2020||patna,||Farmers lathi-charged in Patna||Thousands of farmers who took out a rally in Patna on Tuesday against the recent farm laws, were baton-charged by the police and prevented from reaching Raj Bhavan. A group of citizens in Gaya also sat on a fast at the city’s Shantibagh demanding scrapping of all three laws. The farmers had assembled at Gandhi Maidan in the capital from several districts under the banners of the Akhil Bhartiya Kisan Mahasabha, Kisan Sangharsh Samanvay Samiti and Left parties. They then marched to the Raj Bhavan to submit a memorandum to the Governor against the farm laws. However, the police stopped the march midway at city’s main Dak Bungalow thoroughfare. The protesting farmers sat on the road and blocked traffic, raising slogans against the farm laws and the Centre for its “dictatorial move”. Later a scuffle broke out between the protesting farmers and policemen, who resorted to a baton charge and water cannons to disperse them. “To stop our march to Raj Bhavan when we wanted to go and present our memorandum was injustice against farmers,” said Ramadhar Singh, secretary of the State unit of Akhil Bhartiya Kisan Mahasabha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/farmers-lathi-charged-in-patna/article33449871.ece
30 December 2020||Pune,||Congress will pull out of MVA, says Athawale||Stating that Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut’s demand that NCP chief Sharad Pawar lead the United Progressive Alliance (UPA) had driven a wedge between the Sena, NCP and Congress in Maharashtra, Union Minister Ramdas Athawale on Tuesday predicted that the Congress would pull out of the tripartite Maha Vikas Aghadi and the Uddhav Thackeray-led government would soon fall. “Mr. Raut demanded that the UPA presidency be given to Mr. Pawar. However, the Sena is not part of the UPA. As a result, there is resentment within the Congress leadership. I think the Congress will withdraw its support from the MVA government and it will collapse,” said Mr. Athawale, who is the Union Minister of State for Social Justice and Empowerment. The Republican Party of India (A) president was speaking in Aurangabad as part of his State-wide tour to rebuild his party’s sagging fortunes in Maharashtra. Commenting on the Enforcement Directorate’s (ED) notice to Mr. Raut’s wife, Varsha Raut, Mr. Athawale said, “If Mr. Raut is not afraid of the notice as he claims, then he should have no hesitation in facing the ED summons.” Mr. Athawale, who is a constituent of the Bharatiya Janata Party-led NDA, further claimed that the Sena would be unseated in the upcoming Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation election.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/congress-will-pull-out-of-mva-says-athawale/article33449569.ece
30 December 2020||Wilmington,||‘Trump’s Pentagon appointees stalling transition, posing risks’||President-elect Joe Biden said on Monday that Donald Trump’s appointees at the Pentagon were stalling on the transition and warned that the United States faces security risks as a result. After he and Vice President-elect Kamala Harris were briefed by their transition teams on national security, Mr. Biden said that political appointees at the Pentagon as well as the Office of Management and Budget had put up “roadblocks.” “Right now, we just aren’t getting all the information that we need from the outgoing administration in key national security area(s),” Mr. Biden said after the briefing. “It is nothing short, in my view, of irresponsibility.” Mr. Biden said he was seeking a “clear picture” from the outgoing administration on the force posture of U.S. troops around the world. “We need full visibility into the budget planning under way at the Defense Department and other agencies in order to avoid any window of confusion or catch-up that our adversaries may try to exploit,” Mr. Biden said. Mr. Trump has refused to concede the November 3 election, which Mr. Biden won by some seven million votes and by 306-232 in the state-by-state Electoral College. The President has made unsubstantiated claims of widespread fraud. The Trump administration has drawn concern by shaking up the leadership of the Pentagon since the election, including firing Defense Secretary Mark Esper, who had distanced himself from the President’s use of force against unarmed anti-racism demonstrators earlier this year. Mr. Trump’s new acting Defense Secretary, Chris Miller, has said that the outgoing administration had agreed with Mr. Biden’s people to pause briefings for the holiday season, an assertion that the incoming team called untrue. Mr. Miller released a statement on Monday saying the Pentagon’s coordination efforts with the transition team “already surpass those of recent administrations with over three weeks to go.” Tensions with Iran He added that Department of Defense officials would continue working in a “transparent and collegial manner” to support the transition. Mr. Trump’s last-minute installation of loyalists at the Pentagon comes amid high tensions with Iran, which Mr. Trump blamed for a rocket attack on the U.S. embassy in Iraq ahead of the January anniversary of the U.S. killing in Baghdad of a top Iranian general.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/trumps-pentagon-appointees-stalling-transition-posing-risks/article33449253.ece
30 December 2020||Johannesburg,||South Africa imposes new virus curbs||South Africa banned alcohol sales and made masks mandatory in public from Tuesday after a surge in coronavirus cases, as the World Health Organisation warned that pandemics far more deadly than COVID-19 may lie ahead. Nations around the world are struggling with winter spikes in infections that have pushed the global caseload close to 81 million, even as the rollout of vaccines gathers pace in North America and Europe. ‘Lack of vigilance’ South African President Cyril Ramaphosa on Monday announced a ban on selling alcohol and said face masks will be compulsory in public after his nation became the first in Africa to record one million cases. “We have let down our guard, and unfortunately we are now paying the price,” said Mr. Ramaphosa, blaming “super-spreader” social events and an “extreme lack of vigilance over the holiday period” for the spike. Mr. Ramaphosa said data showed “excessive alcohol consumption” leads to an increase in trauma cases reported at hospitals, causing an “unnecessary” strain on public health facilities. Surging cases also forced authorities in Rio de Janeiro — one of Brazil’s worst-hit cities — to announce Monday that they will block access to beaches on December 31 to prevent crowds celebrating New Year’s Eve. And in Spain, where the death toll has topped 50,000, the Health Minister said the government would set up a registry of people who refuse to be vaccinated, and share it with other European Union member states. WHO warning Vaccinations in Spain and other EU countries started over the weekend, and authorities fear vaccine hesitancy and rejection could hamper those efforts — especially because of misinformation campaigns on social media.  The coronavirus has devastated lives and economies across the globe, but the WHO warned Monday that worse pandemics could like ahead, urging the world to get serious about preparedness. “This is a wakeup call,” WHO emergencies chief Michael Ryan told reporters at a briefing marking a year since the UN agency first learned of the new virus spreading in China. “This pandemic... has spread around the world extremely quickly and it has affected every corner of this planet, but this is not necessarily the big one,” Mr. Ryan added. “We need to get ready for something that may even be more severe in the future.”  The warnings were backed up by the worrying figures and trends reported worldwide. South Korea, one of the nations hailed for its success during the first months of the pandemic, on Tuesday logged its highest daily death toll since the beginning of the pandemic as it battled a third wave of infections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/south-africa-imposes-new-virus-curbs/article33449262.ece
30 December 2020||Washington,||House votes to override Trump’s veto of Defence Bill||The Democratic-controlled House voted overwhelmingly to override President Donald Trump’s veto of a Defence Bill, setting the stage for what would be the first veto override of his presidency. The veto override was supported by 212 Democrats, 109 Republicans and an independent. Twenty Democrats opposed the override, along with 66 Republicans and an independent. The Senate, which is expected to vote on the override this week, also needs to approve it by a two-thirds majority. Mr. Trump rejected the Defence Bill last week, saying it failed to limit social media companies he claims were biased against him during his failed reelection campaign. Mr. Trump also opposes language that allows for the renaming of military bases that honour Confederate leaders. The Defence Bill, known as the National Defence Authorisation Act, or NDAA, affirms 3% pay raises for U.S. troops and authorises more than $740 billion in military programmes and construction. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, Democrat from California, said after the vote that the House had done its part to ensure the NDAA becomes law “despite the President’s dangerous sabotage efforts”. ‘Reckless veto’ “Trump’s reckless veto would have denied our service members hazard-duty pay by blocking overwhelmingly bipartisan action to rename military bases,” Ms. Pelosi said. Senator Jim Inhofe, R-Oklahoma, chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee, called the Bill “absolutely vital to our national security and our troops”. Mr. Trump has succeeded throughout his four-year term in enforcing party discipline in Congress, with few Republicans willing to publicly oppose him. The bipartisan vote on the widely popular Defence Bill showed the limits of Mr. Trump’s influence in the final weeks before he leaves office, and came minutes after 130 House Republicans voted against a Trump-supported plan to increase COVID-19 relief checks to $2,000.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/house-votes-to-override-trumps-veto-of-defence-bill/article33449257.ece
30 December 2020||London,||COVID-19 patients in British hospitals surpass April peak||England is “back in the eye” of the coronavirus storm, health chiefs warned on Tuesday, with as many patients in hospital as during the initial peak in April. A new strain of the virus appears to be behind the upsurge in cases, heaping further pressure on the National Health Service. NHS England figures showed there were 20,426 COVID-19 patients in the country’s hospitals on Monday, compared to the 18,974 peak recorded during the first wave. The number of positive tests recorded over a 24-hour period also hit a new high of 41,385 on Monday. However, case figures do not include Scotland and Northern Ireland, which did not report over the Christmas period. “Many of us have lost family, friends, colleagues and — at a time of year when we would normally be celebrating — a lot of people are understandably feeling anxious, frustrated and tired,” said NHS England CEO Simon Stevens. “And now again we are back in the eye of the storm with a second wave of coronavirus sweeping Europe and, indeed, this country.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/covid-19-patients-in-british-hospitals-surpass-april-peak/article33449258.ece
30 December 2020||Gaza City,||Islamist groups from Gaza fire rockets into sea||Palestinian armed groups staged military exercises in Gaza on Tuesday, including firing rockets into the sea, to mark the anniversary of the start of the 2008 conflict with Israel. The demonstrations were scheduled to last several hours and involve about 10 groups in the Israeli-blockaded Palestinian enclave, said a spokesman for the Al-Quds Brigade forces, the armed wing of Islamic Jihad. The goal of the exercise, the first of its kind, is to “strengthen the skills of combatants” and demonstrate the “unity” of armed groups in Gaza, added the spokesman, whose face was almost entirely covered by a traditional headscarf. Hamas, the Islamist group that has controlled Gaza since 2007, was also taking part. Hamas’s Al-Aqsa TV showed rockets being fired from the strip on Tuesday into the Mediterranean Sea. Israel’s Army said a projectile device was launched from Gaza overnight Monday to Tuesday, but that it did not cross into Israeli territory. Israel did not immediately retaliate to that launch with airstrikes, as it typically does when rockets fired from Gaza enter Israel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/islamist-groups-from-gaza-fire-rockets-into-sea/article33449255.ece
30 December 2020||Dhaka,||Bangladesh sends 1,804 refugees to remote island||Seven Bangladesh Navy ships carrying 1,804 Rohingya refugees arrived on Tuesday at an isolated island where they will be relocated despite concerns among human rights groups about their safety. They reached Bhashan Char island, 34 km from the mainland, after a four-hour naval journey from the port city of Chittagong, government official Mohammed Khurshed Alam Khan said. He said authorities at the island received 433 men, 523 women and 848 children. Authorities insist all were willing to be relocated and no pressure was placed on them. But several human rights and activist groups say some were forced to go. It was the second group of Rohingya refugees transferred from crowded, squalid camps in Cox’s Bazar district to the island. Authorities sent a first group of 1,642 on December 4 despite calls for a halt by human rights groups. Rear Admiral Md Mozammel Haque, commander of the local Navy, said the number of refugees willing to join the second phase of relocation “exceeded their expectations.” He said the authorities were initially expecting to relocate around 1,200 refugees, but 1,804 chose to go. The island surfaced only 20 years ago and was not previously inhabited. It was regularly submerged by monsoon rains but now has flood protection embankments, houses, hospitals and mosques built at a cost of more than $112 million by the Bangladesh Navy. The island’s facilities are designed to accommodate 1,00,000 people, just a fraction of the million Rohingya Muslims who fled waves of violent persecution in Myanmar and are currently living in the camps in Cox’s Bazar. International aid agencies and the U.N. have opposed the relocation since it was first proposed in 2015, expressing fear that a big storm could wash over the island and endanger thousands of lives.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/bangladesh-transfers-1804-rohingya-to-isolated-island/article33449252.ece
30 December 2020||Brussels,||EU seeks release of citizen journalist in China prison||The European Union on Tuesday demanded that China release citizen journalist Zhang Zhan and several other jailed reporters, lawyers and human rights champions. Ms. Zhang was jailed on Monday for four years over allegations of “picking quarrels and provoking trouble” during her coverage of the early stages of the COVID-19 outbreak in epicentre Wuhan, her lawyer said. “Prior to her detention, Ms. Zhang Zhan had been reporting about the coronavirus pandemic in Wuhan,” EU foreign policy spokesman Peter Stano said in a statement. “According to credible sources, Ms. Zhang has been subject to torture and ill-treatment during her detention and her health condition has seriously deteriorated.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/eu-seeks-release-of-citizen-journalist-in-china-prison/article33449254.ece
30 December 2020||Petrinja,||Five die after strong quake strikes Croatia||A powerful earthquake killed at least five people as it tore down buildings in central Croatia on Tuesday, leaving a town near the epicentre without electricity as rescuers combed rubble in the dark. The tremors were felt as far as Vienna while the damage was concentrated in and around Petrinja, a town some 50 km south of Croatia’s capital Zagreb. At least five people died, including a young girl in Petrinja and four in the nearby town of Glina, officials told local media. Earlier, Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic said containers would be brought in to house those whose homes remained risky, while military barracks could also take in residents. The tremors reverberated across neighbouring countries, including Serbia and Slovenia.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/five-die-after-strong-quake-strikes-croatia/article33449793.ece
30 December 2020||Paris,||50 journalists killed in 2020: watchdog||Fifty journalists and media workers were killed in connection with their work in 2020, the majority in countries that are not at war, Reporters Without Borders (RSF) said on Tuesday. The figure shows an increase in the targeting of reporters investigating organised crime, corruption . It highlighted murders in Mexico, India and Pakistan.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/50-journalists-killed-in-2020-watchdog/article33449250.ece
30 December 2020||Kathmandu,||Chinese delegation resumes talks with Nepali leaders; meets NC leader Deuba||Guo Yezhou, a vice-minister of the Communist Party of China, on Tuesday met the main opposition Nepali Congress chief Sher Bahadur Deuba and discussed the latest political developments in the country following the dissolution of Parliament by Prime Minister K.P. Sharma Oli.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/chinese-delegation-resumes-talks-with-nepali-leaders-meets-nc-leader-deuba/article33449260.ece
30 December 2020||December 30 2020 00:00 IST,||The global angle to the farmer protests||The farmers’ movement for the repeal of the three farm laws which affect them closely but have been rammed through without consulting them, has now entered its second month. It is of historic significance. It is not just about minimum support prices but also about the survival of the entire system of public procurement and distribution of foodgrains. Without ensuring the economic viability of foodgrains production in North India — the grain basket of the country — no continuity can be ensured for the public procurement and distribution system, which, despite its drawbacks, continues to provide a modicum of food security to vast numbers of our population. Recreation of colonial times Northern industrial countries, namely the United States, Canada and the European Union (EU), cannot produce the tropical and sub-tropical crops in high demand by their own consumers while they have mountains of surplus grain and dairy products, the only goods their single-crop lands are capable of producing for climatic reasons. They must find export markets for these. For over two decades, they have put relentless pressure on developing countries to give up their own public procurement systems, insisting that they should buy their food grains from advanced countries, while diverting their food-crop-producing land to contract farming of export crops that these industrial countries want but cannot themselves produce. In short, they want a re-creation of the economic scenario of the colonial period. Dozens of developing countries, ranging from the Philippines in the mid-1990s to Botswana (Africa) a decade later, succumbed to this pressure. They paid the price when with rapid diversion of grain to ethanol production in the U.S. and the EU, world grain prices trebled in a matter of months from end-2007. Thirty-seven newly import-dependent countries saw food riots, with urban populations being pushed into greater poverty. Food security for the developing world is far too important a matter to be left to the global market, but the relentless attack on their public stocking of grain for ensuring food security continues. India had barely managed to pull back from the brink a decade ago: procurement prices were raised substantially after virtually stagnating during the six years preceding the 2008 price-spike, and grain output in Punjab grew again from near-stagnant levels as economic viability improved. But absorption of foodgrains did not improve as much owing to continued exclusion of many of the actually poor from ‘Below Poverty Line’ ration cards, while unemployment caused by the 2016 demonetisation followed by the 2020 pandemic has reduced aggregate demand by now to a historic low. A case of unfair trade Our farmers have been exposed for no rhyme or reason to unfair trade, and to the volatility of global prices that has plunged them into unrepayable debt and distress — in one village in Punjab, there were as many as 59 widows of farmers forced into suicide. Trade with the North is unfair, because the advanced countries in the mid-1990s, converted their own price support measures to massive subsidies given as direct cash transfers to their own farmers, transfers that in a blatantly self-serving manner they wrote into the Agreement on Agriculture as ‘not subject to reduction commitments’. India along with other developing countries signed the Agreement with very little idea of the implications of the small print. For the U.S., the direct cash transfers it gives to its 2.02 million farmers, amounting to a huge half or more of its annual farm output value, uses up only 1% of its budget. For India, over 50% of the entire central government annual Budget would be required to give even a quarter of annual farm output value to our 120 million farmers, which is an economic impossibility and an administrative nightmare. It’s about a reasonable price The farmers have made it amply clear that they do not want petty cash handouts; all they want is a reasonable price for the vital crops they produce for the nation, so that they can cover costs and live at a modest standard. In Indian circumstances, the price support system is in fact the only feasible one. While depletion of groundwater in Punjab is a real problem, the solution lies in introducing improved agronomic practices such as the System of Rice Intensification which economises water, not in reducing rice production. One does not cut off one’s head because of a headache. It is precisely the support prices for crops that had been deliberately put by advanced countries under completely arbitrary and absurd computation rules in the Agreement on Agriculture. The U.S. complained against India to the World Trade Organization in May 2018 that since the ‘reference price’ for calculating support was the 1986-88 average world price of a crop which they converted to rupees at the then prevailing Rs. 12.5 per dollar exchange rate, India’s support price per quintal for rice and wheat in 2013-14 should have been at the most Rs. 235 and Rs. 354, respectively! The actual support prices were Rs. 1,348 and Rs. 1,386, and the difference, over Rs. 1,000 per quintal, was then multiplied by the entire 2013-14 output of rice and wheat, and came to 77% and 67% of their output values (https://bit.ly/3mROANe). This, the U.S. claimed, was support provided in gross violation of the permitted 10%! Two months ago the U.S. sent fresh questions to India. Every kind of dishonest and absurd rule had been put into the Agreement on Agriculture to short-change gullible developing countries. Our farmers are among the lowest cost producers in the world, and the support prices in 2013-14 at the prevailing exchange rate of Rs. 60.5 per dollar were well below global prices, which means that actual support was negative. Right assessment Current compression of global demand means that wheat and rice prices are at historic lows, advanced country farm subsidies are at historic highs and their desperation to dump their grain on our markets has intensified. While our protesting farmers have correctly identified domestic firms as potential beneficiaries of the new marketing laws that they oppose, foreign agribusiness corporations are as great a danger. Farmers have already experienced contract farming with foreign agribusinesses in Punjab and Haryana. They say clearly that they do not wish to deal with powerful, faceless private corporations that renege on price and quantity contracts when it suits them. Despite all its inefficiency and payment delays, they prefer to sell to government agents at the stipulated minimum support prices. They are absolutely correct in thinking that deregulation of markets as mandated by the new laws, and the entry of business firms, which will be not only Indian but also foreign, mean a severe undermining of the entire system of public procurement and minimum support prices. The ‘green energy’ push There are many Indian intellectuals who argue that importing subsidised grain from the North will benefit poor consumers here. They forget that there is an increasingly powerful opinion advocating ‘green energy’ in advanced countries, pushing for even greater conversion of grain to ethanol; hence initial low-priced grain imports, if permitted today, will not only destroy our farmers but will soon give way to a scenario of price spikes and to urban distress as experienced earlier by developing countries forced into import dependence. Anyone with a concern for our own hard- working farmers and poverty-stricken consumers, must support the farmers’ demands against the machinations of both local and global business elites. Utsa Patnaik is Professor Emeritus, Jawaharlal Nehru University||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-global-angle-to-the-farmer-protests/article33449239.ece
30 December 2020||December 30 2020 00:00 IST,||The climate policy needs new ideas||2021 will be the year for a new global climate policy and India has the soft power to bring together the high and low emitters. Among the ‘major economies’, India will meet its Paris Agreement target for 2030. Its per capita emissions are one-third of the global average and it will remain within its share of ecological space. In an urbanised world, two-third of emissions arise from the demand of the middle class for infrastructure, mobility, buildings and diet. Well-being in cities is reflected in saturation levels of infrastructure with consumption, not production, driving growth as well as high urban per capita emissions. Infrastructure worldwide has used half of total materials, mainly construction, cement and steel, which have no substitute, and will need half of the available carbon space before comparable levels of infrastructure are reached globally around 2050. Peaking of emissions comes some 20-30 years after saturation of infrastructure has been achieved, with related high levels of well-being, as in the case of the West, before net zero emissions are considered. Prime Minister Narendra Modi was justifiably cautious at the Climate Action Summit and avoided commitments to cap emissions. Inequity is built into the climate treaty, which considers total emissions, size, and population, making India the fourth largest emitter, even though, according to the United Nations, the richest 1% of the global population emits more than two times the emissions of the bottom 50%. Clearly, net zero or carbon neutrality by 2050, and the cap on emissions it implies, applies only to countries with high per capita emissions, GDP and well-being. Reversal in thinking The focus on physical quantities indicates effects on nature whereas solutions require analysis of drivers, trends and patterns of resource use. This anomaly explains why the link between well-being, energy use and emissions is not on the global agenda. New thinking must enable politics to acknowledge transformational social goals and the material boundaries of economic activity and not the latter without the former. Modifying unsustainable patterns of natural resource use and ensuring comparable levels of well-being are societal transformations and two sides of a coin interlinked with international cooperation to serve sustainable development. The vaguely worded ‘carbon neutrality’, balancing emitting carbon with absorbing carbon from the atmosphere in forests, for example, is a triple whammy for latecomers like India. Such countries already have less energy-intensive pathways that will not encroach on others’ ecological space, a young population, and are growing fast to reach comparable levels of well-being with those already urbanised and in the middle class.  Industrialisation and urbanisation are not the problem ‘per se’; the problem is the way they were designed in the colonial context: keeping commodity prices low, overly resource-intensive, defining progress as material abundance, and assuming that technology would solve the ecological problem. By 1950, the contribution of the U.S. to total emissions peaked at 40%. It has declined to approximately 26%, the largest in the world. North America and Europe, with less than one-quarter of the world population, are responsible for almost half of global material use. The share decreased to one-fifth in 2010, when Asia with half the world population used its legitimate share of half of global resource use. But the ecological damage had already been done. China, with four times the population of the U.S., accounts for 12% of cumulative emissions, and India, with a population close to that of China’s, for just 3% of cumulative emissions that lead to global warming. Reconstruction in the West after World War II led to acceleration of material use, resulting emissions and sharp rise in global temperature around 1970, before growth commenced in Asia. Urban transformation requires huge amounts of iron and steel, cement, construction materials and energy for infrastructure. Before infrastructure reaches saturation levels and manufacturing stabilises, material use shapes ways in which countries build houses and transport infrastructure, and how they organise mobility and deliver manufactured goods, food and energy. With the population moving to cities, growth in per capita incomes drives consumption and vehicle emissions becomes the continuing driver of increasing levels of material use, far more significant than manufacturing. In each sustainability benchmark like housing size and density, public bicycle transport and eliminating food waste, India is doing better than the West. The rising prosperity of the world’s poor does not endanger the planet; the challenge is to change wasteful behaviour in the West, and these changes occur at decadal scales. Soft power India must highlight its unique national circumstances. For example, the meat industry, especially beef, contributes to one-third of global emissions. Indians eat just 4 kg of meat a year compared to those in the European Union who eat about 65 kg and Americans who eat about 100 kg. Also to be noted is the fact that the average American household wastes nearly one-third of its food. Transport emissions account for a quarter of global emissions. They are the fastest-growing emissions worldwide and have surpassed emissions from generation of electricity in the U.S. Transport emissions are the symbol of Western civilisation and are not on the global agenda. Coal accounts for a quarter of energy use. It powered colonialism. Rising Asia uses three-quarters as coal drives industry and supports the renewable energy push into cities. India, with abundant reserves and per capita electricity use that is one-tenth that of the U.S., is under pressure to stop using coal, even as it aims to shift to electric vehicles and eliminate oil instead. India has the credibility and legitimacy to push an alternate 2050 goal for countries currently with per capita emissions below the global average — for example, the goal of well-being within ecological limits, the frame of the Sustainable Development Goals, as well as multilateral technological knowledge cooperation around electric vehicles, energy efficiency, building insulation and a less wasteful diet. Emissions are the symptom, not the cause of the problem. India, in the UN Security Council, must push new ideas based on its civilisational and long-standing alternate values for the transition to sustainability. Mukul Sanwal is former Director of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-climate-policy-needs-new-ideas/article33449245.ece
30 December 2020||December 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Resilient supply chains as a pandemic lesson||A key lesson learnt by the world during the COVID-19 pandemic has been the importance of creating resilient supply chains that can withstand disruptions and ensure reliability for the global economy. Disruptions in supply chains can be natural or man-made. In Japan’s case, the Great Tōhoku Earthquake of 2011, followed by the Tsunami, led to a nuclear disaster (Fukushima Daiichi), causing a sharp drop in Japanese automobile exports to the United States. Examples that hit home Man-made interruptions in supply chains are equally disruptive. Terrorist drone attacks on Aramco’s oil refineries at Abqaiq and Khurais in Saudi Arabia in September 2019 resulted in a drop of 5.7 million barrels of oil per day, triggering a steep plunge in Saudi Arabia’s stock market and a sharp spike in global oil prices. China has long practised “supply chain politics”. Japanese entrepreneurs learnt a hard lesson when the detention of a Chinese fishing trawler captain in 2010 near the disputed Senkaku Islands resulted in the Chinese government cutting off exports of rare earths to Japan. When the novel coronavirus pandemic broke out, it had an immediate and telling effect on supply chains emanating from China. In India, several companies felt the disruption in the automotive, electronics and white goods sectors. India excels in the pharmaceuticals sector but the over-reliance on Active Pharmaceutical Ingredients (APIs) from China still creates vulnerabilities in the value chain. Tensions with China led the United States government to impose restrictions on export of microchips to China’s biggest semiconductor manufacturer, Semiconductor Manufacturing International Corporation (SMIC), following assessment that there was an “unacceptable risk” that equipment supplied to it could be used for military purposes. A new initiative Greater weaponisation of trade and technology is here to stay. It is in this context that India, Japan and Australia initiated the Supply Chain Resilience Initiative (SCRI) in September this year, focusing on automobiles and parts, petroleum, steel, textiles, financial services and IT sectors. The SCRI may be bolstered by the future involvement of France, though this might depend on the European Union’s position. The United Kingdom has also shown interest in the SCRI. Geo-politics and geo-economics can never be truly separated. This is what Henry Kissinger called the “principle of linkage” in his analysis of U.S. relations with the Soviet Union. When the Nixon administration came to power in 1969, the Soviet Union wanted access to some key western technologies in computing. Yet, it was unwilling to accommodate U.S. concerns on strategic and military issues. Kissinger clearly pointed out that to “separate issues into distinct compartments would encourage the Soviet leaders to believe that they could use cooperation in one area as a safety valve while striving for unilateral advantages elsewhere....” China has resorted to similar tactics, of maintaining advantageous trade and economic engagement, without relenting on strategic issues. China’s calls for “normal relations” with India are unrealistic given the continuing face-off in Ladakh. Moves by Australia, Japan China has often used its economic leverage to weaken an opponent’s resolve on contentious issues. Facing such a dilemma, Australia has demonstrated strong political will in countering arbitrary Chinese sanctions imposed on its key exports of grain, beef, wine, coal and much else. This is a price that a democracy such as Australia finds worth paying, for demanding an inquiry into the origins of the coronavirus and advocating a robust Indo-Pacific vision. Since the normalisation of diplomatic ties in the 1970s, Japan has invested hundreds of billions of dollars in the Chinese economy. For many Japanese companies, global performance and profits are linked to manufacturing facilities and supply chains in China. Yet, they have shown an early capacity for risk mitigation through the “China Plus One” business strategy, aimed at diversification of investments to the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN), India and Bangladesh. In Phase-1 of Japan’s $2.2 billion Relocation Package announced this year, 89 Japanese companies availed subsidies to diversify out of China. Of these, 57 companies relocated to Japan, 30 to Southeast Asia and two to India. A sizeable number of small and medium enterprises (SMEs) chose to relocate to Southeast Asian countries such as Vietnam, Thailand and Malaysia. That in itself is hardly surprising since Japanese entrepreneurs are far more familiar with the cultural and business environment in ASEAN countries as compared to South Asia. However, companies in health care and medical devices, especially those manufacturing personal protective equipment (PPEs), would have benefited more by shifting to India which offers a much larger domestic market as well as lower manufacturing costs for global exports. India’s vulnerabilities A large emerging economy such as India can ill-afford the shocks of disruption in supply chains. Nor can it allow itself to be held hostage due to an over-reliance on imports. For instance, the pandemic caused a breakdown in global supply chains in the automotive sector since most global manufacturers in China abruptly went offline. For India, which imports 27% of its requirement of automotive parts from China, this quandary was a wake-up call, given the sudden shortage of braking components, electrical components, interiors and lighting fixtures. What is noteworthy is that despite being the fourth largest market in Asia for medical devices, India has an import dependency of 80%. Among the biggest exporters to India in this field are China, the U.S., Germany, Singapore and Japan. This is clearly not sustainable. Given the renewed thrust in the health-care sector, this is the right time to fill gaps through local manufacturing. India’s electronics industry was worth $120 billion in 2018-2019 and is forecast to grow to $400 billion by 2025. Today, India is seeking to enhance its presence substantially in the global supply chains by attracting investments in the semiconductor components and packaging industry. The government is actively promoting domestic manufacture of printed circuit boards (PCBs), components and semiconductors, as the Indian electronics sector gradually shifts away from completely knocked down (CKD) assembly to high value addition. Defence beckons Defence is among the key pillars of the ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ policy. The government is providing a big boost to defence manufacturing under the ‘Make in India’ programme. It has identified a negative import list of 101 items. There is a tremendous opportunity for foreign companies to enter into tie-ups with reputed Indian defence manufacturers to tap into the growing defence market in India. The push for self-reliance through ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ is not an autarkic policy. It does not imply foreclosure of the Indian economy to foreign trade and participation in the global economy. On the contrary, it is aimed at strengthening India’s capacities to participate more vigorously without being prey to supply chain disruptions. India has the capacity and the potential to become one of the world’s largest destinations for investments, and one of the world’s largest manufacturing hubs, in the aftermath of the pandemic. Sujan R. Chinoy is a former Ambassador and currently the Director General of the Manohar Parrikar Institute for Defence Studies and Analyses. The views expressed are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/resilient-supply-chains-as-a-pandemic-lesson/article33449241.ece
30 December 2020||December 30 2020 00:00 IST,||The tragedy of conservation||In 2012, 39 areas covering national parks, wildlife sanctuaries, and reserved forests in the Western Ghats were declared a World Heritage Site by UNESCO. These sites are crucial for their biodiversity value. Ten of them are in Karnataka. Since the time the Ministry of Environment and Forests began identifying the potential heritage sites, there has been unrest among the indigenous people. When the exercise began, they feared for their existence in lands that they had inhabited for decades. The restrictions on movement following the declaration of these territories as ecologically sensitive areas aggrieved them further. Against the backdrop of the enactment of the Forest Rights Act of 2006 in India and the Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous People in 2007 by the United Nations, the people residing in the Western Ghats did not anticipate that they would have to deal with the uncertainty about their future following the announcement of the World Heritage Site. The indigenous people of the Western Ghats, including the Particularly Vulnerable Tribal Groups, constitute 44.2% of the tribal population of 6.95% of Karnataka. The Western Ghats are also home to a sizeable population of communities like Gowlis, Kunbis, Halakki Vakkala, Kare Vakkala, Kunbi, and Kulvadi Marathi. In the context of the Forest Rights Act, they are treated as ‘other traditional forest dwellers’ since they have been living there for at least three generations prior to December 13, 2005 and depend on the forest or forest land for their livelihood needs. They eke out their living by collecting ‘minor forest produce’ such as cinnamon and kokum from the forest. A dismal record Karnataka has a dismal record in implementing the Forest Rights Act compared to other States. According to the Ministry of Tribal Affairs, as of April 30, 2018, the State had recognised only 5.7% of the total claims made. Notably, 70% of the claims were disposed off. There appeared to be clear inconsistency in the government’s approach in settling the claims made by the tribals versus the claims made by other traditional forest dwellers. The inconsistency reflected in their argument. According to them, tribal applications constituted 17.5% of the claims and nearly all of them were settled, while other claims were rejected as they were not backed by valid evidence. This means that claims made by other traditional forest dwellers were treated as inconsequential. The wrong approach Assuming that denying tribals or other traditional forest dwellers their rights in the forest would serve the purpose of conservation is far from the truth. The Forest Rights Act is not about the indiscriminate distribution of forest land to anyone applying for it. As per the law, only those lands are recognised where people prove their occupation not later than December 13, 2005. Moreover, the combined stretch of land claimed by them is comparatively smaller by any account than what has been taken away for building dams, mining, laying railway lines and roads, power plants, etc. The government records also reveal that 43 lakh hectares of forestland were encroached both legally and illegally until 1980 when the Forest Conservation Act came into force. Sadly, there is no significant conservation even after this landmark law. Invariably, an approach adopted to isolate the indigenous people from their natural habitats to protect biodiversity is the root cause of conflict between them and conservationists. The latter think that resources have to be controlled and managed. However, this theory is fast proving unproductive. The Global Environment Outlook Report 5 mentions that there is decreased biodiversity across the globe even as ‘protected areas’ have been expanding. People living in nature’s surroundings are integral to conservation as they relate with it in a more integrated and spiritual way. The way forward Declaration of the Western Ghats as a World Heritage Site is as important in preserving the rich biodiversity of the region as the recognition of the rights of the people who depend on the forests. As confirmed internationally, preserving biodiversity requires the legal empowerment of the people living in those areas. The Forest Rights Act is an ideal instrument to push forward the objective. To realise it on the ground, the government must make an effort to build trust between its agencies in the area and the people who depend on these forests by treating them as equal citizens like everyone else in the country. Madhusudan Bandi is a faculty member with the Gujarat Institute of Development Research, Ahmedabad. Email: madhusudan_bandi@gidr.ac.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-tragedy-of-conservation/article33449247.ece
30 December 2020||December 30 2020 00:00 IST,||The broken bonds of democracy||A recent order by the Central Information Commission (CIC) has again revealed the inherent problems surrounding the Electoral Bond Scheme (scheme) of 2018. This order passed in an appeal against the State Bank of India (SBI) has effectively shut the door to seek any details about donors and donees relating to electoral bonds under the Right to Information (RTI) Act. With no other recourse available, the Supreme Court is the only surviving arbiter on adjudicating the vires of electoral bonds. An illegal scheme The scheme creates banking instruments for donation of funds to political parties facilitated by the SBI. It conceals the identity of the donors and donees as well as the amount of donation. In effect, the scheme is not transparent, promotes arbitrariness and is therefore illegal. The scheme facilitates undisclosed quid pro quo arrangements between donors, who are likely to be corporates, and political parties. Such an arrangement goes against best practices of electoral democracy and is repugnant to the freedom of speech and expression. In People’s Union for Civil Liberties v. Union of India (2003), the Supreme Court held that the freedom of speech and expression also contained the fundamental right of a voter to secure information about the candidates who are contesting the election. When the voter is permitted to know if an electoral candidate is facing any cases, should she not be equally entitled to know who is financing the expenses of the party and its candidate? The CIC order has upheld the contention of the SBI that it is not required to furnish the details of donors, donees and donations, under the RTI Act. In doing so, SBI has relied on two grounds provided under Section 8 of the RTI Act, which exempts disclosure of information: that the information sought has been held in fiduciary capacity and that there was no public interest involved in the application. Both grounds do not stand a bare scrutiny of law. It is also trite that any exemption provided under Section 8 should be read only in a very narrow sense. Section 8(2) directs that when public interest outweighs any harm to protected interests, the information sought for may be accessed. This Section begins with a non obstante clause. Therefore, it overrides the grounds erroneously relied upon by the CIC. The public interest in the present matter is undisputable. The CIC, in an earlier order, deemed political parties to be public authorities under the RTI Act. The funds received by parties from donors would naturally be of interest to voters in order to understand their financing and functioning. Donations by corporate entities would also be of interest to their shareholders and potential shareholders. Therefore, the failure of the CIC in appreciating the present issue as one of high public importance and resorting to technical objections defeats the objects of the RTI Act itself. The final arbiter The CIC order effectively shuts the door on any RTI requests with regard to electoral bonds and any concomitant information. There is no other recourse but for the Supreme Court to determine the law with regard to the scheme and the interpretation of the CIC. A batch of petitions filed by the Association for Democratic Reforms and the Communist Party of India (Marxist) are sub judice. Therefore, the CIC’s decision, if carried to the Supreme Court on appeal, may also be tagged and heard altogether. It is worth remembering that the writ petitions pending adjudication were filed over three years ago and that the respondents have also filed their pleadings. In its counter affidavit filed before the Supreme Court in 2017, the Election Commission argued the case for “declaration of donation received by political parties and also about the manner in which those funds are expended by them, for better transparency and accountability in the election process”. The public scrutiny of parties and political candidates is an essential and inalienable part of a free and fair democratic process. By suppressing knowledge of political financing, we are breaking the basic bonds of democracy holding the country together. An unsettled law is as dangerous as bad law. The Court must conclusively settle the questions around the constitutionality of electoral bonds. Manuraj Shunmugasundaram is an advocate and spokesperson of the DMK||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-broken-bonds-of-democracy/article33449248.ece
30 December 2020||December 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Caution pays||On the threshold of a new year, the COVID-19 pandemic no longer seems terrifying to many, as overall cases maintain a downward trajectory and a massive vaccination programme is set to roll out. Normal life has resumed in substantial measure: there is a scaling up of long distance travel, elections have been held and mass protests are being organised. At the same time, critical activities such as on-campus education remain mostly suspended and many senior citizens are unable to access periodic health checks. Anecdotal evidence points to infections spreading in commercial centres and at workplaces. Therefore, there is a long way to go before people can really put the pandemic behind them. A large section of the population has been able to shelter from the coronavirus, particularly the elderly and people with morbidities. Relaxing the vigil now is bound to prove costly for them. It is essential, therefore, for States and all citizens to accord the Home Ministry’s guidelines on “Surveillance, Containment and Caution” for January the highest importance. That the U.K. variant of the virus has now been found in India underscores the point that easing off on testing, tracing and containment could prove dangerous. This mutant is likely to have initially travelled to several locations before it was detected, and there is a likelihood that its footprint may cover third countries from which India continues to operate bubble flights. The Home Ministry has recalled the orders of the Supreme Court in a suo motu writ petition on December 18, calling for strict adherence to COVID-19-appropriate behaviour, especially during the New Year celebrations. The Court wanted deployment of more police personnel at places where people are likely to gather, such as food courts, eateries, vegetable markets, and bus and train stations. It made the valid observation that careless people infringed other citizens’ right to life by ignoring the use of masks and social distancing, while various protocols had failed to stop the virus spreading “like wildfire” due to lack of implementation. The government was also mandated by the Court, under Article 21, to ensure that it invests sufficiently in its hospitals and those of the local administration, acknowledging the right to health and affordable treatment for all. Now that the Court is seized of the issue, States can be asked to individually report their compliance when the Bench takes it up again in a month. Even with a steadily expanding base of vaccinated individuals, surveillance and caution are essential. Governments should seize the opportunity presented by the pandemic and set up a public health backbone in all States, in cities and rural areas, to do the monitoring. This will have the twin advantage of rapidly advancing universal health coverage through health and wellness centres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/caution-pays/article33449233.ece
30 December 2020||December 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Beleaguered Khan||The joint rally called by Pakistan’s Opposition parties at Larkana in Sindh on Sunday, on the 13th death anniversary of former Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto, signals that the country’s political crisis is not going to be resolved any time soon. Eleven Opposition parties, including Bhutto’s Pakistan People’s Party (PPP) and the Pakistan Muslim League-Nawaz (PML-N), have formed a grand alliance, the Pakistan Democratic Movement (PDM), which has been staging protests for months against Prime Minister Imran Khan’s government. At Larkana, the PPP’s Bilawal Bhutto-Zardari and the PML-N’s Maryam Nawaz Sharif gave Mr. Khan a January 31 ultimatum to quit and call fresh elections. If he does not do so, they have threatened to launch a “long march to Islamabad”, which could shut down the capital city and worsen the crisis. After spending time dismissing and attacking the Opposition alliance, the government has finally invited the protesting leaders for talks, but with one rider: the exclusion of Ms. Nawaz and PDM chairman Maulana Fazlur Rehman as they are not parliamentarians. This shows Mr. Khan is still betting on the divisions within the Opposition rather than being ready to hold an open dialogue with the PDM. Mr. Khan deserves to be blamed for the political deadlock he is in now. His confrontational approach towards the Opposition has only harmed his government and Pakistan’s democracy. His much-touted crusade against corruption, which overwhelmingly targeted Opposition leaders while overlooking leaders from his party, the Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf, raised questions about its real objectives. It is Mr. Khan’s consolidation of more and more powers in his hands and the relentless pursuit of corruption cases against his rivals that brought the Opposition together. Granted, the PDM is not a coherent entity. Its constituents range from the secular PPP and the conservative PML-N to Maulana Rahman’s Jamiat Ulema-e-Islam (F). But despite ideological differences, they have shown resolve and unity in their relentless campaign to send Mr. Khan home. The government could have been more flexible in its approach towards the Opposition. But the PTI, which is backed by the powerful military generals, has been reluctant to reach a compromise, pushing the country into a political deadlock at a time of economic challenges, from a COVID-19-triggered contraction to a mounting debt burden. Ideally, the government’s priority should be in addressing them, but the prolonged face-off has practically paralysed governance. To get out of the impasse, the government should first give up its confrontational approach, open talks with all Opposition leaders and be ready to address their concerns. If it chooses to continue its hardline approach, Pakistan may be headed for a prolonged political and governmental paralysis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/beleaguered-khan/article33449234.ece
30 December 2020||December 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Physical force in child rearing||A major nationwide study has traced the high level of child beating in U.S. to a widespread acceptance among Americans of the use of physical force as a legitimate procedure in child rearing [Waltham]. This conclusion was reached by Dr. David G. Gil of Brandeis University after an analysis of 13,000 child beating reports in all 50 States. It conflicts with earlier studies, which have generally attributed the abuse to the mental illness of the beater. “The context of child rearing does not exclude the use of physical force, towards children by parents and others responsible for their socialisation,” Dr. Gil said. “American culture encourages in subtle and at times not so subtle ways, the use of ‘a certain measure’ of physical force in rearing children in order to modify their inherently non-social inclinations.” But, however bad child beating may be, Dr. Gil said, it constituted only a minor social problem in comparison with what he calls the “collective societal abuse” of the offspring of the poor. “Millions of children are living and growing up under circumstances of severe social and economic deprivation which tend to inhibit the fullest possible development of their innate capacities,” he said citing poor nutrition, poor medical and dental care and poor education.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/physical-force-in-child-rearing/article33449242.ece
30 December 2020||MUMBAI,||‘Policy roll-back may dent banks’ health’||In 2020-21, as policy support is rolled back, the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic may dent the health of the banks and non-banks, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) said in its Report on Trend and Progress of Banking in India. To mitigate the impact of COVID-19, the RBI allowed lending institutions to grant a moratorium on payment of instalments of term loans due between March 1, and May 31, which was later extended till August 31. The report said as at end-August, borrowers accounting for about 40% of outstanding loans in the financial system (ie banks and NBFCs) had availed of the moratorium. “The data on gross non-performing assets (GNPA) of banks are yet to reflect the stress, obscured under the asset quality standstill with attendant financial stability implications. An analysis of published quarterly results of a sample of banks indicates that their GNPA ratios would have been higher, in the range of 0.10% to 0.66%, at end-September 2020,” it said in the report, which details the performance of the banking sector in 2019-20 and 2020-21 so far. Banks’ gross non-performing assets ratio declined to 8.2% in March from 9.1% a year earlier, and to 7.5% at end-September. The COVID-19 provisioning and ploughing back of dividends would help shield their balance sheets from emanating stress to a certain extent, it said. The report said preliminary estimates suggested that potential recapitalisation requirements for meeting regulatory purposes as well as for growth capital may be to the extent of 150 basis points (bps) of the common equity tier I (CET I) ratio for the banking system. It said while the government had earmarked Rs. 20,000 crore in the first supplementary demands for grants for capital infusion in public sector banks (PSBs), they may raise more resources from the market as an optimal capital raising strategy. Specifically on NBFCs, the report said profitability of non-banking finance companies (NBFCs) may be ‘dampened’ going ahead due to the loan impairment and lower credit demand. Due to the moratorium and asset classification standstill, asset quality shored up. However, many NBFCs had made additional provisioning as per the expected credit loss norm; and bolstered their capital position by ploughing back dividends, it said. As on August 31, about 26.6% of the total customers of NBFCs had availed of the moratorium and 44.9% of their total loan outstanding was under moratorium, it added. The report said a study of the distribution of TLTRO funds revealed that Rs. 76,843 crore had been requested by NBFCs and housing finance firms, four-fifths of which had been disbursed. NBFCs garnered 60% of the total disbursement, it added.  (With PTI inputs)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/policy-roll-back-may-dent-banks-health/article33449219.ece
30 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Deference to those with influence fuels money laundering’||Banks’ deferential treatment towards powerful and influential people is one of the reasons money laundering has risen in the country in recent years, India’s largest bank’s compliance chief said on Tuesday. State Bank of India’s Group Compliance Officer Soma Sankar Prasad also stressed that India ‘unfortunately’ had no distinct norms in place for ‘politically exposed persons’ opening bank accounts. “There are certain powerful and influential customers… In India, we still have this hierarchy in terms of power and influence with the result that you treat different people differently. “That also happens in banks... so when certain important people come into the bank for opening an account, you don’t ask for all the details and you open the account. So that is again one of the reasons that things can go wrong,” he said. Responding to a query on how banks should treat politically exposed persons, the senior SBI official said: “Unfortunately, we don’t have this concept to check for ‘politically exposed persons’ in India. We can open accounts for them, but extra details must be called for and transactions must also be monitored closely because there is a possibility that this person might use the account for money laundering by diverting money which is earned through illegal means.” Several countries impose tougher monitoring norms on bank accounts operated by politically exposed persons, defined as those holding an important position in government, bureaucracy or is a relative of someone holding such a position. The surge in digitisation, increasing complexity of banking transactions and fierce competition among banks has also created money-laundering opportunities, while the crores of transactions that take place in the system daily makes it tougher to detect suspicious transactions, Mr. Prasad said at an Anti-Money Laundering/Combating the Financing of Terrorism conference hosted by the Global Counter Terrorism Council. Mr. Prasad, also deputy MD at SBI, said a ‘misplaced sense of loyalty’ towards customers and their interests also affects full disclosure at the time of opening accounts, with frontline staff also fretting about loss of business to other banks. “The lax implementation of Know-Your-Customer norms... So when accounts are being opened, you don’t interview the customer properly, with the result that sometimes the occupation or the income level is not entered correctly,” he said, adding that this makes it difficult to tag suspicious transactions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/deference-to-those-with-influence-fuels-money-laundering/article33449224.ece
30 December 2020||HYDERABAD,||‘India can build on rural push, federalism, consumer base’||Though COVID-19 and the subsequent lockdown left a trail of economic devastation in most countries, India can potentially build upon three positive aspects — a push in the rural economy, stronger federalism and a huge consumption base, former RBI Governor Duvvuri Subbarao has said. In his foreword on a Telugu book titled “Maandhyam Mungita Desam” (Nation in Recession) authored by Tummala Kishore, he said the challenge for the Centre was to ensure economic growth and that growth is inclusive, with lower income households too enjoying the benefits. “The expanded MNREGA provided a lifeline when most needed, and the frontloaded transfer payments to women, pensioners and farmers have... helped revive demand. “Brisk procurement by the FCI (Food Corporation of India) has buttressed farmers’ incomes while it helped the government extend the food security programme until end November.” Mr. Subbarao said India’s federalism — ‘warts and all’ — has withstood the test of vigorous democracy though there were tensions between the Centre and the States on issues such as GST compensation. “In a setting like this, any increase in income of the bottom half will quickly turn into consumption” spurring output, in turn.  Stating that the Indian economy was already in a troubled shape even before the COVID-19 crisis, he said a ‘V’ shaped recovery in growth rate did not mean a ‘V’ shaped recovery in absolute output and that the level of output in FY22 will be lower than that seen in FY20.   V-shaped recovery in growth does not reflect absolute output. Output in FY22 will be lower than that in FY20||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/india-can-build-on-rural-push-federalism-consumer-base/article33449226.ece
30 December 2020||MUMBAI,||AMP, Sterlite in $300 mn power transmission pact||AMP Capital has established an equal partnership with Sterlite Power Transmission Ltd. for the development of energy transmission projects in India. AMP Capital and Sterlite Power would each invest an initial amount of about $150 million in the development of four transmission projects, and had put in place debt financing, representing a total capital outlay of about $1 billion, they said. “These projects have a circuit length of nearly 1,800 km of transmission lines across the western, southern and northeastern regions of India. They will provide the critical infrastructure required for evacuating power from multiple renewable energy generation projects and strengthen the power delivery infrastructure in the country,” they added. “The partners may contribute further capital for inter-State transmission projects, expected to be tendered by the Government of India. Therefore, the partnership has the potential to reach an overall investment size of $500 million,” the firms said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/amp-sterlite-in-300-mn-power-transmission-pact/article33449216.ece
30 December 2020||MUMBAI,||Tatas pay $37.7 mn, raise AirAsia stake to 83.67%||AirAsia Group Berhad on Tuesday executed a share purchase agreement with Tata Sons Pvt. Ltd. to sell 32.67% equity stake held by AirAsia Investment Ltd. (AAIL) in AirAsia (India) Ltd. (AAI) for $37.7 miilion With this, the Tatas’ stake in AirAsia India has risen from 51% to 83.67%. The Tatas did not offer comment. “As part of the transaction, there will be a call option in respect of AAIL’s remaining 16.33% stake in AAI, exercised by Tata Sons at any time the transaction is completed,” AirAsia Group Berhad said in a filing. “There will also be a put option exercised by AAIL.” In his comments, Jitender Bhargava, ex-ED of Air India (AI), said, “It is a win-win situation for both. “AirAsia Berhad had to take a conscious decision as it is facing fund constraints in its core markets and will deploy the capital there. And for the Tatas, it is a sound decision as they are bidding for AI.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/tatas-pay-377-mn-raise-airasia-stake-to-8367/article33449221.ece
30 December 2020||new delhi,||Govt. mulls mandatory front seat airbags||The government on Tuesday said it had proposed to make airbags mandatory for the passengers in the front seat of a vehicle. The step aims to improve passenger safety in case of accidents. The Road Transport Ministry has issued a draft notification in this regard. “In a significant measure to boost passenger safety, the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways proposes to make it mandatory that an airbag be provided for the passenger seated on the front seat of a vehicle, next to the driver,” the Ministry said in a statement. The proposed timelines for the implementation of the move is April 1 for new models and June 1, 2021, for existing models. The government’s proposal to make dual front airbags mandatory would lead to an increase in price and vehicle manufacturers should absorb the major increase in costs to prevent impact on sales, the Federation of Automobile Dealers Associations (FADA) said.   “We hope original equipment manufacturers absorb the major cost of the second airbag as it will impact sales in the short term, which will be bad for the industry that still lags in year-on-year growth after COVID-19 hit us hard,” said FADA president Vinkesh Gulati.   Proposed timelines for implementation of the move is April 1 for new models and June 1, for existing models||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/govt-mulls-mandatory-front-seat-airbags/article33449229.ece
30 December 2020||mumbai,||‘States borrow 43% more, get deeper in debt’||At Rs. 5,55,900 crore, the States whose finances have been ravaged by the pandemic, have snapped up as much as 43.5% more debt from the market during the first nine months of the current fiscal with the conclusion of the last auction on Tuesday when 13 of them borrowed Rs. 18,900 crore. According to an analysis by rating agency ICRA, States had borrowed Rs. 3,87,400 crore in the first nine months of FY20. But given the steep fall in redemptions to Rs. 95,400 crore during the first three quarters from Rs. 1,06,800 crore of FY20, net issuance rose by an even higher 64.1% during the first three quarters of FY21 to Rs. 4,60,400 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/states-borrow-43-more-get-deeper-in-debt/article33449792.ece
30 December 2020||MUMBAI,||Port cargo shows volume growth: ICRA||Cargo volumes at Indian ports have shown growth — for the first time after seven months of decline — in October and November, rising 3% and 1% year-on-year, respectively, an ICRA Ratings report said. Between March-September, the port sector had been adversely impacted following the COVID-19 outbreak and the subsequent lockdown. “While growth in the past two months is positive, for the 8 months of FY21, cargo has reported a 12% decline. However, the same is a significant improvement compared to the 22% decline in Q1 FY21. The pace of decline has moderated sequentially, indicating signs of recovery,” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/port-cargo-shows-volume-growth-icra/article33449217.ece
30 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Tata Trusts’ tax-exempt status upheld||The Income Tax Appellate Tribunal (ITAT) has upheld the tax-exempt status of three Tata group trusts, quashing a revision order of the Income Tax Department that sought to cancel tax exemption on the grounds they held shares of Tata Sons. It also censured former Tata Sons chairman Cyrus Mistry for supplying documents to the tax department soon after his unceremonious exit as the head of the salt-to-software group. The ITAT’s Mumbai bench passed orders upholding the tax-exempt status of Ratan Tata Trust, JRD Tata Trust and Dorabji Tata Trust. The three trusts collectively hold about 66% in Tata Sons, the holding firm of the Tata Group.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/tata-trusts-tax-exempt-status-upheld/article33449225.ece
30 December 2020||New Delhi,||Vedanta raises $1.4 bn to retire debt||Promoters of Vedanta Ltd. have pledged their holding in the company to raise $1.4 billion, mostly for repaying the debt coming up for maturity. In a filing, Vedanta said its promoters raised $1 billion debt by issuing equivalent notes to Citicorp International Ltd. Separately, a unit of Vedanta Resources, will issue $400 million in notes to an entity under Oaktree Capital Group.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/vedanta-raises-14-bn-to-retire-debt/article33449214.ece
30 December 2020||Mumbai,||Škoda to increase price by upto 2.5%||Skoda Auto India said it would increase vehicle prices by up to 2.5% from January 1. “There has been a surge in the cost of inputs for production due to significant volatility in the global commodity prices and foreign exchange rates. Skoda Auto India is now considering a price increase of up to 2.5% from January 1, 2021 across its model range." the company said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/koda-to-increase-price-by-upto-25/article33449222.ece
30 December 2020||New Delhi,||Govt mops up Rs 8,965 cr till Nov from auctioned, allotted coal blocks||The government mopped up Rs. 8,964.75 crore till last month from auctioned and allotted mines, according to the Coal Ministry. These revenue figures consist of upfront amount and monthly premium only, while royalty and taxes or cess are payable over and above these payments. Till date, 11 coal blocks under the MMDR Act have been allotted to various government firms, it said.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/govt-mops-up-rs-8965-cr-till-nov-from-auctioned-allotted-coal-blocks/article33449227.ece
30 December 2020||New Delhi,||Sebi fines NDTV Rs 5 crore over disclosure lapses||SEBI imposed a penalty of Rs. 5 crore on NDTV for its failure to disclose price-sensitive information about VCPL loan agreements. The agreements had contained clauses and conditions that substantially affected the functioning of the company, SEBI said. SEBI added that its probe began after receipt of complaints about loan agreements with Vishvapradhan Commercial Pvt. Ltd. (VCPL).PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/sebi-fines-ndtv-rs-5-crore-over-disclosure-lapses/article33449228.ece
30 December 2020||Centurion,||South Africa registers a thumping win||South Africa wrapped up victory by an innings and 45 runs shortly after lunch on the fourth day of the first Test against Sri Lanka at SuperSport Park here on Tuesday. The visitors, needing 225 runs to avoid an innings defeat, were bowled out for 180. Dinesh Chandimal, who appeared to suffer a groin injury towards the end of Monday’s play, resumed his innings on Tuesday and survived for 40 minutes before being bowled for 25 by a ball from the medium-paced Mulder which cut back off the pitch. Mulder, 22, followed up by having Niroshan Dickwella caught behind. He provided the control that was missing from much of South Africa’s bowling in the first innings during a spell of two for 29 in nine overs. Perera and Hasaranga hit fifties Kusal Perera hit a spirited 64 off 87 balls for the tourists and debutant Wanindu Hasaranga slammed 59 off 53 balls, taking advantage as South Africa seemingly tried to lift its over-rate by rushing through six overs of slow bowling after lunch. Fast bowler Anrich Nortje had the left-handed Perera caught behind off a faint edge, with South Africa successfully reviewing what was originally a not-out decision. Batsman Dhananjaya de Silva, who retired hurt after making 79 in the first innings, did not bat for Sri Lanka. He has been ruled out of the rest of the tour with a torn thigh muscle. Debutant Lutho Sipamla and Nortje both finished with two wickets. Sri Lanka suffered a spate of injuries during the match but bowlers Kasun Rajitha and Lahiru Kumara hobbled to the crease to delay the inevitable. Both suffered groin injuries while bowling.  It was South Africa’s second win in eight matches in the World Test championship. It has suffered six defeats. Sri Lanka has won one, lost three and drawn one of its five matches.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/south-africa-registers-a-thumping-win/article33449364.ece
30 December 2020||Melbourne,||India buries the ghosts of Adelaide at the MCG||A rejuvenated India, sans Virat Kohli, turned the tables on Australia to claim the second Test at the MCG with a rousing eight-wicket win within four days and breathe life into the series. Needing only 70 for victory after bowling Australia out for 200 by lunch, opener Shubman Gill (35 not out) and captain Ajinkya Rahane (27 not out) guided India home to square the series 1-1. Youthful exuberance Having bowled India out for 36 in the crushing eight-wicket win in Adelaide, Australia’s pacemen steamed in with their usual vigour but were repelled by a belligerent Gill, who enjoyed a fine debut as Test opener. The match belonged to Rahane, however, who took over the captaincy after Adelaide when regular skipper Kohli returned to India for the birth of his first child. Rahane marshalled a rejigged side superbly, and fittingly struck the winning run off spinner Nathan Lyon before tea, sending the Indian fans into raptures in the crowd of 13,000. The tourists rattled through Australia for 195 in the first innings and restricted it to 200 in the second, despite the loss of paceman Umesh Yadav, who managed only a handful of overs before hobbling off on day three. Seamer Mohammed Siraj filled the breach superbly, taking three for 37 in the second innings and five wickets overall in a stellar Test debut. Recalled all-rounder Ravindra Jadeja also chipped in with three wickets, with two for 28 in the second innings, after contributing 57 with the bat. On the fourth day, Australia’s faint hopes of setting India a proper chase were snuffed out when Cameron Green heaved at a Siraj short-ball and was caught by a leaping Jadeja for 45.  “What a win this is, absolutely amazing effort by the whole team. Couldn’t be happier for the boys and specially Jinks who led the team to victory amazingly. Onwards and upwards from here” Virat Kohli||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-buries-the-ghosts-of-adelaide-at-the-mcg/article33449325.ece
30 December 2020||Mount Maunganui,||Southee has Pakistan on the ropes||Swing king Tim Southee celebrated his milestone 300th wicket as New Zealand sensed victory over Pakistan at stumps on day four of the first cricket Test here on Tuesday. New Zealand declared its second innings at 180 for five and Pakistan, set an unlikely target of 373, will go into the final day at 71 for three. Azhar Ali will resume on 34 with Fawad Alam on 21. More at stake The Black Caps need to sweep the two-Test series if they are to be in contention to make the World Test Championship final at Lords in June. In New Zealand’s second innings, the Pakistan quicks struggled to get any assistance from the fourth-day wicket, but Southee and Trent Boult immediately had the ball dancing to their tune. Abid Ali fended a rising Boult delivery and was caught behind, while Shan Masood was caught at first slip off Southee and Pakistan was two down for no run. Azhar Ali and Haris Sohail provided some resistance for 15 overs and 37 runs before Sohail chipped Southee to Mitchell Santner at short cover — making Southee only the third New Zealander, after Richard Hadlee and Daniel Vettori, to take 300 Test wickets. Southee has two for 15, and Boult one for 24. Neil Wagner, who was thought to have broken one toe while batting on Sunday, but has now been diagnosed with a second broken toe, sent down six overs to have none for four. New Zealand began its second innings at the start of the day with Tom Latham and Tom Blundell putting on 98 in the first session. Blundell was bowled for 64 trying to slog Abbas and New Zealand was 111 for one. Eleven overs later the Kiwis were 170 for five as Pakistan bought wickets with a short-ball approach. Naseem Shah was the most effective bowler with three for 55. Jamieson fined Meanwhile, New Zealand quick Kyle Jamieson was fined 25 percent of his match fee for a dangerous throw towards batsman Faheen Ashraf on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/southee-has-pakistan-on-the-ropes/article33449363.ece
30 December 2020||December 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Rahane ensures that the real India stands up||Ajinkya Rahane’s victory in Melbourne (important both for India and personally for him), confirmed theories that have been hanging around the edges of our consciousness. For India it was a remarkable comeback, a show of strength and character, and pushed that 36 all out in Adelaide into the box titled ‘freak accidents, do not open again’. It also validated team selection with its accent on balance. Personally for Rahane, it showcased the value of his calm, studied approach that fetched him his 12th and most important century. In 2014, when he made a century at Lord’s, he evoked another calm batsman, Gundappa Viswanath. There is no violence in anything they do. India have not lost a Test where either of them has scored a century. Calmness But it wasn’t the batting alone. There was a calmness about Rahane’s captaincy and an assurance about his moves on the field that communicated itself to his team. He was aggressive, positive, and set attacking fields. All this calmly, almost with a smile. It was confirmation of another theory — that you can be a successful captain either in the assertive Virat Kohli manner or in the composed Rahane manner. To be calm and more importantly, the cause of calmness in others is just as important as being aggressive and the cause of aggression in others. It showed too just how important Rahane is as vice-captain to Kohli — vice-captains play important roles, usually behind the scenes. Ravichandran Ashwin, who has been having a good tour said in an interview, “Jinks’ (Rahane’s) calmness in the dressing room provided us that stability to go out there and express ourselves in this game.” I am not sure if he was speaking for the whole team, but perhaps after that 36 everyone was aware that the only way to go was up. It was a more relaxed team that played in Melbourne. Further confirmation, I think, that cricket teams tend to reflect the temperament of their captains. Next big thing That India were able to win despite missing four frontline players — Kohli, Rohit Sharma, Mohammed Shami and Ishant Sharma — is tribute to a system where graduation from the ‘A’ side is natural and players arrive ready for battle. Shubman Gill and Mohammed Siraj have come through the system and both had memorable debuts. Gill, standing upright and driving the fast bowlers displayed a disposition that usually develops with experience — the ability to clear the mind of a mistake and focus on the next delivery. He could well be the next big thing in Indian cricket. Siraj, who lost his father recently but decided to stay on in Australia, gave the impression he belonged too. India made some bold choices, playing Rishabh Pant and Ravindra Jadeja. Pant’s uncertainty keeping to spin continues, but he is a gifted batsman who can throw bowlers off their length. Jadeja, playing his 50th Test has made nearly two thousand runs and taken over 200 wickets. Both his runs and wickets were important in Melbourne.  The Kohlis and the Gills will garner attention wherever they play and in whatever format. But there is an important lesson for India here. No Test team can afford to compete without its Cheteshwar Pujaras and Ajinkya Rahanes. Yet, the latter duo has to often fight harder than the others; the axe, or at least talk of the axe is never far when the middle order batting is discussed. Strike rates assume undue importance; the ability to grind it out is seldom given its importance. Pujara was the hero of the last tour when India won the series for the first time in Australia. He made 43 in the first Test here, but another failure in the third Test would start the talk. Just as it did when Rahane missed out in South Africa. In his last 44 innings before this Test, he had two centuries; not enough by modern, impatient standards. Yet, Rahane’s strike rate of 50 compares well with Steve Smith’s 55, Kane Williamson’s 52 and Kohli’s 57. There was another battle India had to fight — bubble fatigue. Since the IPL quarantine in August, players have been in the bubble, cut off from family and friends. That’s a long time for active sportsmen to be shut away (so to speak), with little to do outside the matches. Yet India have coped well, without the kind of breaches seen with other teams. That is quite remarkable too. Was this India’s finest away victory in this century? Perhaps. The only competition might be Perth after the ‘Monkeygate’ controversy in 2007-08. Australia did an India (of the previous Test) here – dropped catches, discovered cracks in the batting order, and found it difficult to score enough runs quickly enough to apply pressure. Now India will have to deal with the pressure of winning!||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rahane-ensures-that-the-real-india-stands-up/article33449360.ece
30 December 2020||December 30 2020 00:00 IST,||CFC, ATKMB play out a drab draw||Chennaiyin FC (CFC) and ATK Mohun Bagan (ATKMB) played out a goalless draw in a match where both teams preferred to sit back and hold their fort in the Indian Super League in Bambolim on Tuesday. There was not much to separate the two teams as they kept their defence tight while trying to pursue a counter-attack now and then. ATKMB started with five men at the back and came with a plan not to give CFC much room to create chances like it is used to, especially in the wings. Despite that, CFC had its first opening in the fifth minute when skipper Rafael Crivellaro played a one-two with Jakub Sylvestr, with latter sending in a final through-ball to the captain. However, the Brazilian, shooting with his weak right foot, could only find the goalkeeper in the near post. Within moments, Crivellaro was again in action and this time he found Chhangte with a cross from the right. The Indian, however, shot the ball wide at the far post. At the half-hour back, there was a moment of brilliance from ATKMB’s Edu Garcia who sent in a fine cross from the right as David Williams ran into the box. However, the latter’s touch went wide even as he was challenged by Regan Singh. ATKMB may have felt it deserved a penalty. In the second half, CFC went even more defensive and did its best to keep any potential threat from a pressing ATKMB at bay. Neither team created any significant chances to score. Even when CFC tried its best against the run of play, ATKMB goalkeeper Arindam Bhattacharja was ready for the task on the few occasions he was threatened.  The result:   CFC 0 drew with ATKMB 0.   Wednesday’s match: Hyderabad FC vs FC Goa, 7.30 p.m .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/cfc-atkmb-play-out-a-drab-draw/article33449369.ece
30 December 2020||Melbourne,||Sydney will host third Test: CA||The third Test between Australia and India will remain in Sydney despite a coronavirus outbreak in the city, Cricket Australia said on Tuesday. Brisbane will hold the final clash as scheduled. A COVID-19 cluster emerged in Sydney earlier this month, with parts of the city in lockdown and restrictions placed on travel to other States. With the situation uncertain, Melbourne was put on standby to host back-to-back Tests. But, CA interim chief Nick Hockley said the match starting on January 7 would stay in Sydney after health advice from the New South Wales government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sydney-will-host-third-test-ca/article33449322.ece
30 December 2020||December 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Extremely frustrating, says Paine||Australian skipper Tim Paine expressed his frustration over the Decision Review System (DRS) and the third umpire after he was adjudged caught behind in the second innings off Ravindra Jadeja’s bowling. Paine was initially given not out by the on-field umpire before India reviewed the decision during the third day’s play. There was a spike shown on Real Time Snicko (RTS) when the ball went past his bat though there was no mark on his bat when seen through the Hot Spot camera. Paine was adamant he did not hit the ball, adding that his dismissal at a crucial time was not ideal for his side. “It was extremely frustrating, no doubt about that. It was a crucial part of the game," said Paine. Paine revealed that he had had a chat with the umpires and match officials, but admitted that it was not “very productive”. “My concern yesterday [Monday] was not with the technology, it was with the precedent that was set in the first innings with (Cheteshwar) Pujara and the fact I just think the decision was made too quickly. “He (Paul Wilson, third umpire) did not look at enough replays to see the full evidence, that there was probably a gap between bat and ball. The line itself had started before it went past my bat and it finished again. So there were just lots of things that did not marry up for me.”  The third Test will be telecast live from January 7 on Sony Six, Sony Ten 1 and Sony Ten 3.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/extremely-frustrating-says-paine/article33449326.ece
30 December 2020||MELBOURNE,||Rahane lauds team’s character and intent||India skipper Ajinkya Rahane on Tuesday singled out the debutant duo of Shubman Gill and Mohammed Siraj while commending the tremendous character shown by his side to turn it around in the second Test for a series-levelling triumph. Gill scored 45 and 35 not out while Siraj returned with five wickets, including three in Australia’’s second innings. “I am really proud of all the players. I want to give credit to the debutants Siraj and Gill, the character they showed after the Adelaide loss was great to see,” Rahane said at the post-match presentation ceremony. “Character was important for us, especially after losing Umesh in the second innings.” Discplined Rahane said it is never easy for debutants to be consistently disciplined in their game but Gill and Siraj showed how it is done. “Shubman, we all know his First-Class career and in this game, he showed composure and the intent to play his shots at this level. “Siraj has shown that he can bowl with discipline. It’s really difficult for debutants to bowl with discipline but that’s where I think the First-Class experience comes in handy,” said Rahane. Asked what was discussed before the match, Rahane said, “the talk was all about showing character and intent on the field. One hour at Adelaide took the game away. Lots to learn for even now”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rahane-lauds-teams-character-and-intent/article33449328.ece
30 December 2020||December 30 2020 00:00 IST,||One of the best comebacks: Shastri||Head coach Ravi Shastri termed India’s eight-wicket win in Melbourne on Tuesday one of the best comebacks in the history of Test cricket. “This will go down in the annals of Indian cricket, or world cricket, as one of the great comebacks in the history of the game," said Shastri after the match. "To be rolled over for 36 and get up and be ready to punch was outstanding. The boys deserve all the credit for the character they showed."  Shastri also heaped praise on stand-in skipper Ajinkya Rahane for his all-round performance and the century in the first innings that proved pivotal. “The discipline he showed on a big stage in a massive arena as captain of the team batting at number four! When he went in, we were (61 for two) and to bat six hours on probably the toughest day to bat. It was overcast the whole day and, the sun did not come out at all. Unbelievable concentration!” Shastri stated. On Rahane’s captaincy, Shastri said: “He is a shrewd leader who has a good understanding and reading of the game. His composure in the middle helped the debutants and bowlers as well. He was a calming influence.” The head coach also lauded the performances of debutants Shubman Gill and Mohammed Siraj. “Today Siraj's effort was outstanding. The maturity he showed, for someone playing his first Test, in doing the job he had to do once we lost Umesh (Yadav), was outstanding. And then Shubman playing with that kind of flair was great to see,” Shastri said. The team would continue to play five bowlers in the next Test, said Shastri, adding that all-rounder Ravindra Jadeja lends balance to the side.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/one-of-the-best-comebacks-shastri/article33449331.ece
30 December 2020||KOCHI,||Blasters sign Bagan’s Subha Ghosh||Kerala Blasters has signed Kolkata’s Subha Ghosh for the ongoing ISL. The young forward, who came through the Mohun Bagan Academy, made his debut for the senior team last season and was part of the Kolkata side that won the I-League. “It’s a new beginning for me. I have got a new family now and I want to serve the Blasters right. I know what I have come here to do, I want to score goals and win matches,” said Ghosh. “Subha is a striker who is a natural goalscorer. Kibu (Vicuna, Blasters head coach) had worked with him last season and had some positive things to say about the youngster. “ I am very excited to see him develop and improve the squad,” said Karolis Skinkys, the Blasters’ sporting director. Ghosh’s signing is part of Blasters’ swap deal with ATK Mohun Bagan which will see the Kochi club’s Nongdamba Naorem joining the Kolkata side.  It’s a new beginning for me. I have got a new family now and I want to serve the Blasters right||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/blasters-sign-bagans-subha-ghosh/article33449509.ece
30 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Harikrishna fails to make quarterfinals||P. Harikrishna, who was part of a four-way tie for seventh place with five points at the conclusion of the 11-round league on Monday, eventually finished ninth, and missed making the quarterfinals, in the $200,000 Airthings Masters online chess tournament. Magnus Carlsen proved his superiority against Russian Daniil Dubov with a precise display in rook-pawn endgame to win their opening game of the first best-of-four-rapid-game set in the quarterfinals on Tuesday. The other three quarterfinals opened with drawn games.  The results:   Quarterfinals: Set One (Game One): Magnus Carlsen (Nor) bt Daniil Dubov (Rus); Maxime Vachier-Lagrave (Fra) drew with Wesley So (USA); Hikaru Nakamura (USA) drew with Levon Aronian (Arm); Ian Nepomniachtchi (Rus) drew with Teimour Radjabov (Aze).   Preliminary league: Round 11: Radjabov drew with P. Harikrishna; Nepomniachtchi drew with Carlsen; So bt Dubov; Nakamura bt Anish Giri (Ned); Alexander Grischuk (Rus) lost to Vachier; Aronian bt David Anton Guijar (Esp).   Round 10: Harikrishna drew with So; Carlsen bt Nakamura; Dubov drew with Aronian; Anton drew with Nepomniachtchi; Vachier drew with Radjabov; Giri drew with Grischuk.   Standings (after the league): 1-3. Carlsen, So, Nakamura (6.5 points each); 4-5. Nepomniachtchi, Radjabov (6 each); 6. Aronian (5.5); 7-10. Vachier, Dubov, Harikrishna, Grischuk (5 each); 11-12. Giri, Anton (4.5 each) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/harikrishna-fails-to-make-quarterfinals/article33449361.ece
30 December 2020||KOLKATA,||Nikhil Nandy passes away||Nikhil Nandy, a prominent member of the 1956 Indian football team that finished a creditable fourth in the Olympics, is no more. Regarded as one of the first names in the country to play as a ‘half-back’, Nandy breathed his last on Tuesday afternoon after failing to recover from COVID-19 complications, according to his family. He was 88 and is survived by wife, a son and two daughters. “He contracted COVID-19 in September and underwent treatment in a city hospital for around 45 days. He was not keeping well since returning from the hospital and his condition deteriorated recently as he stopped responding to treatment,” said his son Samir Nandy. Nikhil Nandy made his debut for India in the 1953 Asian Quadrangular Tournament in Burma (now Myanmar). He turned out for the National side in the same tournament in 1955 before travelling to Melbourne to participate in the Olympics in 1956. Nandy became a notable figure for his performance as a half-back, which was a position introduced by the celebrated Indian coach Syed Abdul Rahim. India made it to the semifinals in the Olympics and lost 4-1 against Yugoslavia but Nandy earned praise for his role as a good marker. Nandy was named the vice-captain of the Indian team that played in the 1958 Tokyo Asian Games. Nandy was a regular for Eastern Railway and was instrumental in bringing the legendary P.K. Banerjee to the side, which went on to become the Calcutta Football League champion in 1958 bettering the giants like East Bengal and Mohun Bagan. He was also part of the triumphant Bengal team which won the Santosh Trophy in 1953 and 1955. After hanging his boots, Nandy took to coaching and had a brief stint with the national team. He primarily devoted his time to grooming young footballers. He shunned coaching offers from the big clubs and used to regularly visit the football academy named after him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/nikhil-nandy-passes-away/article33449645.ece
30 December 2020||WELLINGTON,||John F. Reid passes away||John F. Reid, 64, who scored six centuries in 19 Test matches for New Zealand, including one in a famous win over Australia in 1985, has passed away. Reid scored 1,296 runsat an average of 46.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/john-f-reid-passes-away/article33449366.ece
30 December 2020||LONDON,||Aston Villa holds Chelsea||Chelsea, overhauled by coach Frank Lampard after a weekend loss to Arsenal, drew 1-1 draw at home to Aston Villa on Monday as Oliver Giroud’s first-half header was cancelled out shortly after the break by Anwar El Ghazi. Lampard made six changes to the team that began Saturday’s 3-1 defeat to its London neighbour and his gamble on Giroud paid off when the France striker stooped to head in a cross by Ben Chilwell in the 34th minute. It was Giroud’s third goal in four league starts this season, a contrast to a poor run for Timo Werner who has failed to score in the league since Nov. 7. The German, signed from RB Leipzig in the summer, appeared only as a substitute on Monday. El Ghazi’s equaliser Villa drew level in the 50th minute when El Ghazi side-footed a volley at the far post through the legs of Chelsea goalkeeper Edouard Mendy after a cross by Matty Cash. Chelsea protested in vain that its defender Andreas Christensen had been fouled in the build-up by Jack Grealish.  The result: Chelsea 1 (Giroud 34) drew with Aston Villa 1 (El Ghazi 50) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/aston-villa-holds-chelsea/article33449367.ece
30 December 2020||Los Angeles,||Blazers hand Lakers another defeat||Los Angeles Lakers, strong favourite to win a second straight title, suffered a second defeat in four games in the new NBA season, falling 115-107 to Portland Trail Blazers. LeBron James led the Lakers with 29 points, nine rebounds and six assists and Anthony Davis returned from a night off with 13 points and 10 rebounds. Damian Lillard led the Blazers with 31 points and Gary Trent Jr. added 28. Memphis Grizzlies’ first win of the season was a costly one, as Rookie-of-the-Year Ja Morant limped out with a sprained ankle in the first half of a 116-111 overtime triumph over Brooklyn Nets.  Kyle Anderson led the Grizzlies with 28 points — with a career-best four three-pointers — and Dillon Brooks added 24. Caris LeVert led the Nets with 28 points and 11 assists.   The results:   Hawks 128 bt Pistons 120; Nets 111 lost to Grizzlies 116 (OT); Lakers 107 lost to Trail Blazers 115; Nuggets 124 bt Rockets 111; Thunder 109 lost to Jazz 110.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/blazers-hand-lakers-another-defeat/article33449371.ece
30 December 2020||HYDERABAD:,||Aakash helps Combined Dist. XI win trophy||Y. Aakash cracked a century (111) to help SSGF Combined District XI record a thumping 154-run win over SSGF Ranga Reddy in the final of the seventh School Premier League junior state cricket tournament organised by School Sports and Games Federation (SSGF) at Quli Qutub Shah Stadium.   The scores:   Final: SSGF Combined Dist. XI 416 in 49.3 overs (Y. Aakash 111, Pruthvi 63, Dharmik 52, Ansh 65, Chatruya 40, Sohail Shaik 35, Samridh 38, K. Sathvik 5/38, llhan Baig 3/38) bt SSGF Ranga Reddy Dist. 262 in 46.5 overs ( Suchir Choudhary 93, Vasu Dev 102, Ameer Shaik 4/18, S. Akash 4/26) .    Centuries by G. Praneet Kumar (188, 150b,13x4,14x6) for Income Tax and Nakul Varma (154, 195b,17x4, 4x6) for AOC Centre were some of the highlights of the A1-Division three-day league cricket championship here on Tuesday. In other matches, M. Pratyush (119, 148b, 12x4, 3x6) for Concorde, Rakesh Naik (115 n.o.,170b, 23x4) for Charminar and Shaik Sameer (163, 275b,19x4, 4x6) for Sportive CC also cracked centuries. Vidath scalped five for Baalaji Cricket Club against Mahmood Cricket Club.  The scores: Group-A: BDL 138 in 41.4 overs (Hima Teja 58 n.o., Vidyanand Reddy 6/23) vs Deccan Chronicle 136/1 in 25 overs (Yash Kapadia 43 batting, A.Varun Goud 89 batting).   Central Excise 285 in 73 overs (P.S. Chaitanya Reddy 60, T.P. Anirudh 71, Tarun Rajan 64 n.o.) vs SBI 82/2 in 16 overs (Daniel Manohar 38 batting).   Income Tax 461/9 in 87 overs (P. Akshath Reddy 89, Shiv C Singh 39, G. Praneet Kumar 188, Habeeb Ahmed 78) vs Jai Hanuman.   Group-B: Concorde CC 239 in 64.3 overs (M. Pratyush 119, Md. Asaduddin 38, Sahendra Mallu 33, Shashank 5/45) vs Cambridge XI 86/2 in 16 overs (Rishikesh 66 batting).   MP Colts 288 in 79.2 overs (G. Sireesh Goud 71, Ashesh Singh 55, Lalith Reddy 3/30) vs Combined District 23/4 in 7 overs (Praneeth Raj 3/10).   Ensconse 221 in 66.2 overs (V. Sahasra 65, Md. Abdullah 45, Neel Chakravarthy 3/38, Vishal Singh 3/57) vs Zinda CC 59/1 in 13 overs.   AOC 367/9 in 90 overs (Nakul Varma 154, Amit Pachera 90, Sachin Shinde 39) vs Gemini Friends.   Continental vs Hyderabad Bottling - called off due to wet outfield.   Group-C: Jai Bhagwathi CC 182 in 55 overs (A. Yuvaraju 61, Aamir Ali 4/70) vs Apex Cc 116/0 in 27 overs (Anirudh Yadav 58 batting, Ranjith 49 batting).   Mahmood CC 120 in 43.3 overs (Ranjit Kumar 37, Vidath 5/42, Pabba Nilesh 4/40) vs Balaaji Cc 147/1 in 35 overs (Paras 56, Siddharth Naidu 52 n.o.).   Charminar CC 237 in 52.1 overs (Rakesh Naik 115 n.o., Ali Diamond 36, Prashanth Raj 5/61) vs Rohit XI 135/4 in 26 overs (Shahnawaz Khan 43, Aliga Vinay 33, N. Nitin Sai Yadav 31 batting).   Sec’bad Nawabs 401/9 in 90 overs (Takshith Rao 54, Aakash Chaaata 61, Shashi Shekar 40, B.K. Ranganath 51, Srinivas Yadav 96, Govind Kaustub 43, Vijayendra Singh 3/71) vs Gouds XI.   Sportive CC 365/8 in 90 overs (Shaik Sameer 163, Rachnesh Dubey 30, Chandra Shekar 33, Aryan Cariappa 32, Siddharth 3/100) vs Sri Chakra.    D. Ranjith Kumar Reddy (six for 20) helped Gadwal Gladiators score a five-wicket win over Warangal Warriors in the TCA Kakatiya Cup T20 league cricket championship.  The scores: Bhadradri Sailors 153/8 in 20 overs (I. Devan 47, Miskin 4/31) bt Palamur Pirates 97/7 in 20 overs (Pashupati 31).   Warangal Warriors 107 in 18.4 overs (Sai Abhinav 35, D. Ranjith Kumar Reddy 6/20, Pinjari Bhasha 3/12) lost to Gadwal Gladiators 110/5 in 16.1 overs (Srinu 48 n.o.).   Peddapally Panthers 63 in 12.2 overs (D. Kamalesh 3/5, Amaranath 3/14, Sumith Reddy 3/23) lost to to Medak Masters 69/6 in 11 overs (Md. Shoaib Mahammed 30).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/aakash-helps-combined-dist-xi-win-trophy/article33449876.ece
30 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram:,||Muralidharan wins mega final||Former State champion M.B. Muralidhran (Ernakulam) won the Chess Master Class mega final of the online Grand Prix Chess tournament conducted by Chess Kerala on Tuesday. Muralidharan finished with 8 points in the nine-round tournament to come first. O.T. Anil Kumar (Kozhikode) came second with 7.5 points while E.M. Akhilan (Thiruvananthapuram) was third with 7.5 points. The mega final was contested by 100 players and was inaugurated by Kerala Sports Minister E.P. Jayarajan. The Grand Prix tournaments was conducted as fund raiser for Chess Kerala’s benevolent scheme, and a sum of Rs. 70,000 was collected, which will be used to support coaches and trainers in distress due to COVID-19 pandemic.  The final standings: 1. M.B. Muralidharan (Ekm 8 points), 2. O.T. Anilkumar (Koz 7.5), 3. E.M. Akhilan (Tvm 7.5), 4. John Veny Akkarakaran (Koz 7), 5. Abdullah M. Nisthar (Klm 7), 6. T.J. Suresh Kumar (Tsr 6.5), 7. Arpith S. Bijoy (Knr 6.5), 8. Jinan Jomon (Wyd 6.5), 9. Vishnu Surendran (Ekm 6.5), 10. Adithya Pradeep (Pkd 6.5) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/muralidharan-wins-mega-final/article33449508.ece
30 December 2020||December 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Cricket: South Africa v Sri Lanka scores||Sri Lanka — 1st innings: 396.   South Africa — 1st innings: 621   Sri Lanka — 2nd innings: D. Karunaratne b Ngidi 6, K. Perera c de Kock b Nortje 64, K. Mendis c van der Dussen b Ngidi 0, D. Chandimal b Mulder 25, N. Dickwella c de Kock b Mulder 10, D. Shanaka c de Kock b Sipamla 6, W. Hasaranga c Bavuma b Sipamla 59, V. Fernando run out 0, K. Rajitha c Maharaj b Nortje 0, L. Kumara (not out) 0, D. de Silva absent hurt; Extras (b-4, lb-2, nb-4): 10; Total (in 46.1 overs): 180.   Fall of wickets: 1-10, 2-22, 3-85, 4-99, 5-114, 6-142, 7-148, 8-179, 9-180.   South Africa bowling: Ngidi 10-2-38-2, Nortje 10.1-1-47-2, Mulder 12-1-39-2, Sipamla 5-0-24-2, Maharaj 6-3-20-0, Markram 3-2-6-0.   Man-of-the-match: Faf du Plessis.   South Africa won by an innings and 45 runs, to lead the two-match series 1-0.   Second Test: Jan 3 to 7 (Johannesburg) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/cricket-south-africa-v-sri-lanka-scores/article33449372.ece
30 December 2020||December 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Wealth given to bhaktas||Vishnu Sahasranama has bhashyas (commentaries) written by the Advaita, Visishtadvaita and Dvaita schools of philosophy. The Advaita commentary was written by Sankara Bhagavadpada; the Visishtadvaitic commentary titled Bhagavad guna darpana, was written by Parasara Bhatta; the Dvaita commentary was by Satyasandateertha. In the Vishnu Sahasranama, some names are repeated, said M.A. Venkatakrishnan in a discourse. Parasara Bhatta specifically attributes some names to specific vibhava avataras. References to Lord Krishna begin with the name Vasureta, according to Parasara Bhatta. This name is like a prelude or introduction to Krishna, the poorna avatara. Vasureta means His tejas is responsible for His avatara, says Parasara Bhatta, in whose classification, this is the 697th nama. That is, He is responsible for His birth. After this come many names, all referring to Krishna. Interestingly, in the same verse, the name Vasupradah occurs twice, and the occurrence is not spaced out; but the name is repeated in succession. Vasu means wealth, and Sankara Bhagavadpada interprets the first Vasupradah as meaning He who gives wealth to all, including Kubera. The second time the name occurs, he says it means He who gives moksha to His bhaktas. But Parasara Bhatta says the first time Vasupradah occurs, it means He gave a great wealth, namely Himself, to Devaki and Vasudeva. Nammazhvar describes Him as a Kalpaka vriksha. This tree gives whatever one asks of it. But even this tree will not give itself. But the Lord gives Himself to His devotees. According to Parasara Bhatta, the second Vasupradah means He who gave Devaki and Vasudeva the great good fortune of being His parents. He was born with all the features Devaki desired.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/wealth-given-to-bhaktas/article33449319.ece
30 December 2020||December 30 2020 07:55 IST,||Sudoku - December 30, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-december-30-2020/article33450162.ece
30 December 2020||December 30 2020 00:00 IST,||A book, a song, a dance...||Author Siddhartha Sarma Toronto-based author Siddhartha Sarma was working on the edits of his book Twilight in a Knotted World when the first lockdown was announced. “A book is more than the creation of a single mind. Many professionals put their best efforts into it. The pandemic has shown a mirror to this collaborative, fragile system that supports artistic creation.” The book finally came out in September 2020. His editors continued to work despite the changed and uncertain conditions with “some even having to relocate to other cities for professional or personal reasons,” he says. Their “marvellous support” in the editing process led him to consider publisher credits, an idea Siddhartha had been actively thinking about even earlier.  Poet Arjun Rajendran In April 2020, Pune-based poet Arjun Rajendran began The Quarantine Train, an online platform for poets. Arjun, the author of three critically-acclaimed poetry anthologies and the current editor of The Bombay Literary Magazine , has been teaching creative writing for the past two years. He explains that this initiative began because he “missed the interaction” with other poets. He began with appreciation classes that discussed poetry of the masters and then had sessions where poems were critiqued. Then came the Masterclasses led by well-known poets from around the world — Rhys Hughes from Wales and Philip Nikolayev from the US. Antiquarian bookseller Zubairul Islam from Canada also addressed the group. “We did a variety of experiments, like a session on transgender poetry,” says Arjun, adding that he was surprised at the overwhelming response to the initiative. “People began submitting more poems and I started giving more prompts.” With 13 members in the core team, the platform has had book launches and introduced the Deepankar Khiwani Memorial prize for poetry. Arjun could write only four poems during the pandemic but generating 70 sessions with 70 poets for The Quarantine Train was the highlight of a time when the world was fighting a raging health crisis. Arjun’s fourth book was accepted for publication by Westland just before the lockdown. Artist Latheesh Lakshman “Artists were badly hit by the pandemic as all art shows, exhibitions and meets were cancelled,” says Lateesh Lakshman who collaborated with Niharika Peri, former editor of Art Illustrated , to curate The Eating Love Project, where food (pizzas from Niharika’s pizzeria) would take art into people’s homes. “I asked Lateesh to create a pizza box on the connect between food and art,” says Niharik, adding that The Last Supper and The Last Dinner are historical works on this topic. “The pizza box became a platform for art during this time and the dining table in people’s homes the exhibition wall,” says Latheesh adding “this art project is to support artists. A portion of the sales of the boxes goes to the artist.” The first experimental boxes had Latheesh’s work. The next set released in November, curated by Latheesh, engages artists Jyothi, Reshidev and Kalap. They will design for 6,000 boxes. “Whoever sees the box will break into a smile. The attention first goes to the art and then the pizza inside,” says Niharika. The project will be officially launched before the year end. For more information, visit eatinglove.co.in . Architect Vinu Daniel “When the wheels of regular human life came to a standstill during COVID-19, it becomes all the more important to question the direction in which we are headed, instead of questions like ‘What should we build?’,” says architect Vinu Daniel, founder of Wallmakers, an alternative building technology company. Contrary to the idea that the pandemic-related standstill would not generate work, Vinu was busy. He negotiated with his workforce to remain with him during lockdown, managing to keep almost 70% of his workers for three projects that he undertook following strict social protocols. At Sanctity Ferme, a gated farmland community in Shoolagiri, near Bengaluru, he began work on a hospitality centre atop a 50 ft high debris mountain named Kailasam. “The mountain had been created by piling waste rock from a nearby quarry that had been worked on for 10 years. The dumped waste became a ‘mountain’ and the quarry an abandoned ‘hole’ in the face of earth,” explains Vinu who plans to use the waste rock for the façade and roof of the building. His other projects are a concept school in Coimbatore, which encourages students to sit on the floor and a project that uses waste tires. Vinu found Work from Home distracting and changed his routine to working from 10 pm to 6 am. “The pandemic has shown that people should build and live consciously,” says the architect who has taken rammed earth construction to a new high with several projects that use mud. Theatre artiste Kapila Venu “The lockdown was a huge challenge for those of us who live off performance,” says Koodiyattam exponent Kapila Venu. As the reality of the restrictive times sunk in, the Thrissur-based artiste, along with her team of six, restarted work on Sree Krishna Chaitram, a project they had put on hold twice due to the lack of uninterrupted time. “We have been wanting to do this forever. The pandemic gave us long hours to read text together, contemplate and create,” says Kapila. Her team managed to complete the entire series of 35 performances, which was filmed by cinematographer Anandhu Madhu, and streamed on Natankairali YouTube Channel. Kapila also did a solo performance that opened The Milaap Fest In London for Deepavali. In this series, we look back at the various challenges and victories of life in 2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/a-book-a-song-a-dance/article33449537.ece
30 December 2020||New Delhi,||Capital witnesses 703 fresh COVID-19 cases||The Capital witnessed 703 new COVID-19 cases in the last 24 hours, taking the total number of cases to 6,24,118, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Tuesday. Also, 28 more deaths have been reported in the past 24 hours, taking the total number of deaths to 10,502. Of the total cases, 6,07,494 people have recovered and there are 6,122 active cases. Positivity rate The positivity of COVID-19 cases was 0.83% on Tuesday, very less than the average daily positivity in November, which was 11.65%. The overall positivity till now was 7.35%, as per the bulletin. Out of the total 18,727 beds available for COVID-19 treatment in the city, 87.3% were vacant, as per the bulletin. About 2,360 people were admitted in hospitals and 2,976 patients were under home isolation. As per the bulletin, the death rate in the past 10 days was 3.06%. There were 4,450 containment zones in the city as of Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/capital-witnesses-703-new-covid-19-cases/article33449648.ece
30 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Teen’s portraits of Karl Marx, Guru Gobind Singh win hearts at border||Adie Priya, a 16-year-old artist who has his name registered in India Book of Records 2019, has found his own way to express solidarity with the protesting farmers. Standing in the middle of his giant portraits of Guru Gobind Singh, Karl Marx, and Nelson Mandela among others, Mr. Priya from Faridabad displayed his artworks with a placard that read: I support farmers. “I am here to support the protesting farmers. My father was a farmer earlier but later got a private job but we still own land. Also, if not for farmers, we wouldn’t be able to eat,” he said. Priya, who put up the exhibition on Tuesday morning, said he had started making portraits at the age of 13 and his first series was on Gods. “The next series was on those who made a contribution to the world, including Karl Marx, Martin Luther King, and others,” he said, adding that the potrait of Guru Gobind Singh took him two months to make. “Older people can contribute in many ways. For me, my art is the only way I can support the protesters,” he said. Priya is a Class X student of a private school. He is studying for his pre-boards scheduled in January. “I wanted to come earlier but could not due to my studies and my father’s work,” he said. Overwhelming response The response for his art at the protest has been overwhelming, he said. A visitor asked him: “Why is Guru Gobind Singh’s facial expression angry?” To this, he responded: “I had made and this is how it turned out. I thought Guru Gobind Singh is angry at the situation.” Priya has put on display his certificates from India Book of Records 2019 and participation certificate from World Art Dubai. “We are very proud of him. He spends nights working on his portraits,” said his mother, Sarita.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/teens-portraits-of-karl-marx-guru-gobind-singh-win-hearts-at-border/article33449553.ece
30 December 2020||GURUGRAM,||‘Centre must show open mind in talks with farmers’||Rajya Sabha MP Deepender Singh Hooda on Tuesday said the Union government must show flexible approach and open mind in its meeting with the farmers on Wednesday to accept their demands. Speaking to the protesting farmers at Kittlana toll plaza holding indefinite dharna, Mr. Hooda said the farmers were on the streets for 34 days in the bitter cold, but the rulers were resting in their heated rooms, indifferent to their sufferings. “They have forgotten that it is the farmers and farm labourers who have elevated them to the position of power,” he said.  ‘Still time to recover’ Mr. Hooda advised the government that they still had the time to recover. “The government should adopt positive thinking in talks with the farmers’ organisations on Wednesday and move towards a solution. If the government still does not understand the pain of the farmers, then it would have to pay dearly in the times to come. In Wednesday’s talks, the government should adopt a flexible approach and meet the demands of the farmers, so that this movement can end and the farmers can return to their homes,” Mr. Hooda suggested. Mr. Hooda said he had joined the protest not as an MP but as a person belonging to the farmers’ family. “It is our duty to stand with the farmers and soldiers of the country,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/centre-must-show-open-mind-in-talks-with-farmers/article33449546.ece
30 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Wheelchair user woman travels from Patiala to Singhu||Jal Kaur, a 74-year-old resident of Patiala, has been wheelchair-bound for over a decade. Her knees hurt when she walks but the pain did not deter her from joining the anti-farm bill protest here at the Singhu border. On December 12, a group of youngsters in her village helped her to board the bus to the protest site. Since then, she has been dependent on their support for moving around. Staying in one of the tents with other 20 elderly women, two of whom have trouble walking as well, her wheelchair is pulled by a youngster. Back home, she wouldn’t get up from the bed unless necessary, but here she roams in her wheelchair all day. She has to do everything, including bathing, sitting in a wheelchair. She wakes up early in the morning, and a youngster takes her out of the tent. But she is willing to undergo the sufferings. For she says, she has to fight for her children. “Why doesn’t Modi [Prime Minister Narendra Modi] understand that we won’t leave until we win?” she asked. Around 11 a.m., she leaves the tent and is helped towards the stage. She returns to the tent around 5 p.m. just before dusk. With her are friends Malkit Kaur (84) and Jaswinder Kaur (72), and both can’t walk without a stick. They are unbothered about physical pain. “We don’t care about our pains now. Just about rights “All we care about is our rights and our fields,” said Ms. Jaswinder. Joining the protest on Tuesday were 55 people, including 25 children aged between 4 and 12, from a village in Chandigarh. “We have brought children here so that they know why their fathers and grandfathers are here,” said Parminder Kaur (45), who had tagged her children along.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/wheelchair-user-woman-travels-from-patiala-to-singhu/article33449555.ece
30 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Fake call centre racket busted; four women among 11 arrested||Eleven people, including four women, were arrested for allegedly running a fake call centre in south Delhi’s Mehrauli, the police said on Tuesday. During preliminary enquiry, it was found that they used to make calls and lure people on the pretext of providing jobs in reputed companies. They would charge Rs. 2,200 as registration fee. After receiving the amount, they would dispatch fake interview letters and appointment letters and later collected additional amounts, Deputy Commissioner of Police (South) Atul Kumar Thakur said. “The police raided the call centre premises where five men and four women were found using laptops and mobile phones,” Mr. Thakur said. It was found that before dispatching the fake appointment letters, they collected around Rs. 10,000 to Rs. 40,000 according to the budget of the candidate, the police said. A case was registered and the accused Vikas Yadav (25), Krishna (28), Najakat Ali (30), Roop Basant (22), Avinash (24) and four women were apprehended from the spot, the DCP said. During investigation, it was revealed that the call centre was being run by three more accused Arjun Singh (28), Aashish (32) and Rahul. Search for the three was conducted and they were stated to be in Gwalior, M.P., the police said. A team was sent to Gwalior and later Agra, but the accused could not be arrested. On Monday, they were traced to Delhi and Aashish and Arjun Singh were arrested while the third accused Rahul is absconding, the police said, adding that further investigation is under way.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/fake-call-centre-racket-busted-11-held/article33449652.ece
30 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Former MLA’s daughter alleges domestic violence at home: DCW||The Delhi Commission for Women (DCW) said that former MLA Rajkumar Chauhan’s daughter was rescued from Paschim Vihar on Monday after she reached out to the women’s panel alleging captivity and domestic violence by her family members. In a statement on Tuesday, the DCW said that the complainant had sought help through a letter to the Delhi government requesting authorities to “rescue her”. “The woman alleged that her father did not want her divorce case to be settled and her husband had married someone else. The complainant wanted to start a new life but was unable to do so because of the family’s prestige issues. She alleged that her father had illegally confined her to the house and would not allow her to go out of the house,” a DCW official said. Shifted to shelter home The women’s panel said that while the complainant had been shifted to a shelter home following requisite procedures, Delhi Police had not yet registered an FIR in the matter. In a notice issued to Delhi Police, the DCW said: “She [complainant] has alleged that due to continuous harassment and beating, she is facing several medical issues. Please provide a copy of the FIR registered in the matter, steps taken by Delhi Police for safety and security of the complainant and her daughters and a detailed action taken report in the matter.” When contacted, Mr. Chauhan refused to comment on the matter. The DCW has asked Delhi Police to respond to the notice by January 1. Commenting on the issue, a senior police officer said: “Local enquiry revealed that she is living with her two daughters aged 20 years and 13 years on a separate floor in the house of her father. Allegations levelled by the complainant were denied by her daughters. Further enquiry is being conducted into the matter.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/former-mlas-daughter-alleges-domestic-violence-at-home-dcw/article33449564.ece
30 December 2020||Jind,||Villagers want Dushyant to stand with farmers||From former Haryana Chief Minister Om Prakash Chautala to his grandson and Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala, Karsindhu, a village in Jind’s Uchana Assembly segment, has voted overwhelmingly for the Chautalas for decades. Dushyant took the highest lead from this village both in Lok Sabha and Assembly elections last year. But a lot seems to have changed since, and more so over the past few weeks amid the ongoing farmers’ agitation. The voices of disenchantment and resentment against Dushyant, seen by many as true heir to his great grandfather and legendary farmer leader Chaudhary Devi Lal, have been growing louder and clearer. “The entire village is angry with him. We were annoyed when he supported the Bharatiya Janata Party in government formation, but gradually accepted it hoping that he would work for the farmers being in the power. But now he has chosen power over the farmers, this is unpardonable,” says Gurjeet Singh, sitting at a shop close to the village’s school on Monday afternoon, without mincing words. “Karsindhu was the first village he visited after the victory in the Assembly election last year. But he has not come for months now. He does not even take our calls,” grumbles Radhye Shyam, sitting next to Gurjeet. Scores of villagers gathered at the chowk holding black flags and raising slogans when they learnt about Dushyant’s visit to the village on December 24, recalls Sandeep, who runs a cement shop. “People from neighbouring villages also joined the protest. There were around two dozen tractors. The police also looked helpless. Some villagers dug up the makeshift helipad as well,” he continues. He adds that only a favourable outcome to the ongoing agitation can pacify the villagers a bit.  Resignation sought Sitting in a group of elderly, Mange Ram says that villagers want Dushyant to resign and stand with the farmers. “He made a mistake by supporting the BJP first. Now he should stand with the farmers,” says the 62-year-old. “Chautalas were invincible in this village, but not any more,” chips in 65-year-old Jile Singh. Bala, 37, says she canvassed for Dushyant for days going from village to village, but now feels cheated. On the outskirts, Shamsher Singh, engaged at a site for digging of pond under the MGNREGS, says Dushyant was enjoying power because of the votes of the farmers and the workers and they had the right to be angry with him. “He can get many more chances at power, if the farmers support him. The Kheda Khap, comprising 40 villages, has also given a call to boycott MLAs and MPs,” he says. But many argue that it is wrong to blame MLAs for the law enacted by the Central government. Satbir Singh, a farmer, says the opposition to Dushyant is politically motivated and nothing can be achieved with his resignation. “The BJP government would continue to run with the support of the Independents, even if Dushyant withdraws support. He has done a lot for the village in one year, sanctioning funds for a library, a cremation ground and a community centre,” argues Bittu Nambardar, 21. Though divided over opposition to Dushyant, the villagers are united in their support to the farmers’ agitation. “Many have left in tractors and trolleys to take part in the agitation. A few others contribute by supplying vegetables, milk and butter milk on alternate days,” says Anoop.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/villagers-want-dushyant-to-stand-with-farmers/article33449545.ece
30 December 2020||New Delhi,||School students to get ration for six months under midday meal scheme||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday distributed dry ration kits to Delhi government school students. Consisting of wheat, rice, pulses and oil, the kits were provided to all eligible students from Classes 1 to 8 in government schools under the mid-day meal scheme. During the distribution programme at SKV No. 3, Mandawali, Mr. Kejriwal said, the whole education system had undergone a change during this difficult period. He said that he is extremely proud of the teachers for working so hard, and over 94% of students in Delhi who were taking online classes. The Delhi government was starting ration distribution at the request of the parents of government school students, he said. “Each student will be now provided an adequate ration for a period of six months — July 2020 to December 2020 — so that there is no lack in providing nutrition to children. During the lockdown, the Delhi government provided dry ration to 1 crore people, or 50% of the Delhi’s population every day for three months,” he said. ‘Difficult phase’ “This is a very difficult phase, especially for the children. Please take care of them and their nutrition, ensure they attend all online classes. I hope that the vaccine comes and ends our difficulty as soon as possible,” he said. “The infrastructure of this school is superior. It is not very common to find such good schools. Earlier, the government schools used to be in a pitiable condition. We used to blame the schoolteachers for no proper studies. The teachers are the same, and they are doing an excellent job at teaching now,” he said. “Our students are getting admissions in IITs, medical institutions, and law institutions. People from across the world visit the Capital to witness these government schools,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/school-students-to-get-ration-for-six-months-under-mid-day-meal-scheme/article33449651.ece
30 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Explore utilisation of fly ash in cement plants: NGT||The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has directed a Faridabad based thermal power plant to explore utilisation of fly ash in cement plants and also directed the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) to monitor whether covering of the ash dump meets scientific environmental norms. Taking note of a report furnished by the Haryana Pollution Control Board, a Bench headed by NGT chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel said: “It appears that the exposed surface has been covered and the pond ash is not being allowed to be lifted. The question whether covering of the ash dump meets the scientific environmental norms needs to be cross checked to prevent the potential of any damage by such exercise.” “This may be done by the CPCB within two months. The power plant in question may explore utilisation of the fly ash in cement plants, taking precautions and ensuring that no air pollution is caused during transportation and handling. This aspect may also be monitored by the CPCB,” the Bench said. Recommendation In its report, the state pollution control board had recommended that installation work of solar power plant “must be expedited to avoid any possibility of air pollution.” The directions came when the green panel was hearing a plea moved by petitioner Chetram Choudhary alleging illegal disposal of fly ash by a power plant in Faridabad, which was causing health hazards.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/explore-utilisation-of-fly-ash-in-cement-plants-ngt/article33449868.ece
30 December 2020||New Delhi,||AQI may deteriorate to ‘very poor’ today||The air quality of Delhi, Noida and Gurugram was in the “poor” category on Tuesday, said Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). The air quality of the national capital is expected to deteriorate to the “very poor” category on Wednesday. The air quality is likely to be “severe” on Thursday and Friday. “AQI is likely to further deteriorate to the high-end of the ‘very poor’ category on December 31 and due to the low ventilated condition, it is forecasted to even touch the ‘severe’category for a shorter period on New Year’s Eve. Calm local surface wind speed, low ventilated condition is likely to extend for the New Year day and AQI will hover between upper end of ‘very poor’ to ‘severe’ category,” said government-run monitoring agency, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR). The minimum temperature on Monday was 3.6 °C, which is lower than the season’s average by three degrees and the maximum was 18.1 °C, which is two notches below the normal, according to the IMD. The minimum temperature on Wednesday is predicted to be around 4°C and maximum about 18 °C. Also, there will be shallow to moderate fog in the morning and cold wave conditions at isolated places.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/aqi-may-deteriorate-to-very-poor-today/article33449560.ece
30 December 2020||New Delhi,||AAP to instal free Wi-Fi hotspots at site||The Aam Aadmi Party on Tuesday said the party will instal free Wi-Fi hotspots at Singhu border in a phased manner. “[CM] Arvind Kejriwal has done sewa of langar to blanket, drinking water to toilets, and now he is providing free Wi-Fi to the farmers at Singhu border so that they may stay connected to their loved ones. Each hotspot will cover a radius of 100 metres,” said AAP national spokesperson and MLA Raghav Chadha. ‘Stand against fakenews’ He added that installing functional Wi-Fi hotspots is important to enable farmers to give a befitting answer to the BJP and will also help them take a stand against the fake news that is being spread about them. “I think this is the least we can do for those who are responsible for putting food on our plates,” the AAP leader said. He added that currently, the farmers cannot properly talk to their family members back in their home States due to poor network coverage and bad reception. “We hope that with the Wi-Fi hotspots, our farmer brothers will be able to see their loved ones via video call,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/aap-to-instal-free-wi-fi-hotspots-at-site/article33449563.ece
30 December 2020||New Delhi,||CM to inaugurate Chandni Chowk project soon||The Chandni Chowk redevelopment project is likely to be inaugurated by Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal soon, sources familiar with developments in this regard claimed. Finishing touches are being given to the 1.3-km stretch between Red Fort and Fatehpuri Masjid which is in the process of being beautified and turned into a car-free zone, they said. Most of the work is being done in red sandstone, keeping the Mughal-era architectural style in mind at a cost of Rs. 90 crore. The project is part of a larger redevelopment plan for the Walled City, which involves fixing up the Jama Masjid area; Daryaganj area, from Delhi Gate to Nukkad Faiz Bazar; Lothian Road, from Lothian Bridge to Kashmere Gate; and improvement of various connecting roads in the area such as Esplanade Road, reads a a detailed project report made in 2017. The stretch will not allow vehicles between 9 a.m. and 9 p.m. though non-motorised vehicles will be allowed. There will be tree-lined footpaths on either side of the road as well as a wide central verge.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/cm-to-inaugurate-chandni-chowk-project-soon/article33449649.ece
30 December 2020||New Delhi,||NDMC approves proposal to pay Rs. 200 to students||The New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) in a meeting on Tuesday approved 37 proposals placed before it. The proposals includedpayment of Rs. 200 to Class X and XII students towards data package cost through Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) for attending online classes and redevelopment of Khan Market Community Centre. The council, under the chairmanship of Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, has also approved sending a proposal to the Ministry of Home Affairs for considering regularisation of 63 contractual doctors by amending the existing recruitment rules. It also approved the revision of remuneration of salary and allowances to contractual doctors in NDMC as per Seventh Central Pay Commission pay scales. “The Council has approved the proposal for Construction of 160 Type-III Flats at Sector-VI, Pushp Vihar, Saket. Also approved the construction of Jai Prakash Naryan Library at Mandir Marg,” an official statement said. Also, a resolution has been passed for declaring NDMC as a 7-star rated urban local body, paving way for applying for 7-Star rating city under Swachh Bharat Mission, the statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/ndmc-approves-proposal-to-pay-rs-200-to-students/article33449561.ece
30 December 2020||New Delhi,||‘BSF officers cannot leave and come back as per wish’||The Delhi High Court has ruled that employment at the Border Security Force (BSF) is not a “hop-on and hop-off service” from which its members can leave and come back whenever they wish. A Bench of Justice Rajiv Sahai Endlaw and Justice Asha Menon made the remarks while dismissing the plea of an Ex-Deputy Commandant of BSF — who took voluntary retirement but later wanted to rejoin the service in the same capacity as prior to the resignation. Ex-Deputy Commandant Mandeep Singh had opted for voluntary retirement as his mother was suffering from Parkinson disease since 2008 and was undergoing treatment. While seeking permission for the voluntary retirement, he had also cited that his wife was posted at Amritsar as Judicial Magistrate staying along with her 2-year-old child. At that period, Mr. Singh was posted in Delhi. Withdrawing resignation BSF’s counsel argued that no personnel has a right to withdraw the resignation and it is the decision of the Indian Government whether to allow any personnel to withdraw his resignation or not. The BSF’s counsel said Mr. Singh, in his August 17, 2018, application to the President, did not withdraw his resignation but made a request for being permitted to join after voluntary retirement. The said request of Mr. Singh has already been rejected, the counsel said. “In our view, tendering and acceptance of resignation from secure employment has an element of finality and irrevocability thereto,” the court said. It added that “the reigns of the country cannot be entrusted to a personnel, who in the past has chosen his own interest over that of the public or the country”. It said conduct of Ms. Singh, though still having substantial period of deputation with National Security Guard (NSG) left, paid scant regard to the same in the face of difficulties of his wife and small child and his mother “do not indeed show the petitioner [Mr. Singh] to have put the service before self”. The court further observed that “the personnel tendering resignation also tend to forget that we are a country of scarcities including scarcities of employment opportunities”. “Here, advertisements inviting application for a few hundred posts elicit applications from lakhs. Though, we are a country of scarcities, we are rich in human resource...Tendering of resignation from employment with the government by one, creates vacancy, for which hundreds if not lakhs await an opportunity,” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bsf-officers-cannot-leave-and-come-back-as-per-wish/article33449549.ece
30 December 2020||New Delhi,||JMI told not to discontinue contractual teachers services||The Delhi High Court has ordered that services of various contractual teachers working with a school, being run under the aegis of Jamia Millia Islamia, shall not be discontinued till March next year. Justice Jyoti Singh directed that “the services of the petitioners shall not be discontinued by Syed Abid Hussain Senior Secondary School, till the next date of hearing”. The court’s order came while hearing pleas by several teachers seeking to regularise or confirm them as permanent employees and to restrain the management from illegally terminating their services. The teachers have also sought the authorities to pay them all the consequential benefits and allowances at par with other teachers working at the same post in any other school of JMI or Kendriya Vidyalaya School or Delhi government school. They have also sought direction to the authorities to fix their Grade Pay and grant all the benefits in terms of the recommendations of Seventh Central Pay Commission with effect from the date of their joining the service and to pay the arrears of salary. The court has posted the case for hearing on March 22, 2021.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/jmi-told-not-to-discontinue-contractual-teachers-services/article33449550.ece
30 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Two held for killing ‘thief’||Two men were arrested for allegedly killing a 40-year-old man whom they suspected to be a thief in north-east Delhi’s Sonia Vihar, the police said on Tuesday. The accused have been identified as Manjeet and Parveen Kumar, they said. On Saturday, information was received that an injured person was lying in an unconscious state in the fields near Bedi Gas Agency Sonia Vihar, the police said. They took him to JPC Hospital where he was declared brought dead. There were multiple abrasion and deep bone head injury on the body, a senior police officer said. During investigation, deceased was identified as Sunil Verma (40), a resident of Loni, Gaziabaad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/two-held-for-killing-man-on-suspicion-of-being-thief/article33449653.ece
30 December 2020||Guwahati,||Assam Accord clause panel’s report not examined yet||The Assam government has not examined the report of a panel formed for recommending measures for the implementation of Clause 6 of the 1985 Assam Accord that had ended a six-year agitation against illegal immigration. The clause seeks to guarantee constitutional safeguards for the Assamese people. Assam’s Parliamentary Affairs Minister Chandra Mohan Patowary said the process of engaging legal experts to examine the report containing the recommendations of the Justice Sarma Committee was on. In a written reply to a question from Congress MLA and opposition leader Debabrata Saikia, he attributed the delay to the “situation created by the COVID-19 pandemic.” The Ministry of Home Affairs had in July 2019 constituted the 14-member panel headed by retired Gauhati High Court judge Biplab Kumar Sarma. Assam Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal had accepted the report on behalf of the MHA after it was finalised in February. The proposals included reservation of 80-100% seats in the Assembly, Parliament and local bodies for the indigenous people and introduction of British-era Inner-Line Permit system in the State. The committee also recommended that Indian citizens who were in the State in 1951 should be treated as “Assamese” for the purpose of giving reservation. The State government has also not been able to collect data on six communities demanding Scheduled Tribe (ST) status, documents submitted by Chandan Brahma, Minister for Welfare of Plains Tribes and Other Backward Classes, in the Assembly revealed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/assam-accord-clause-panels-report-not-examined-yet/article33449547.ece
30 December 2020||GURUGRAM,||Businessman held for tax fraud of Rs. 22 cr.||The Central Goods and Services Tax, Commissionerate (CGST), Gurugram, has arrested a businessman for Input Tax Credit fraud to the tune of Rs. 22 crore on Monday. The accused Rajesh Kumar Gupta of the firm M/s Deep Chand Rajesh Kumar, Gurugram, had passed on Input Tax Credit fraudulently to the tune of Rs. 22.74 crore involving invoice value of Rs. 26.11 crore on the strength of invoices issued to 13 non-existent fake firms located in various States.During search proceedings at the residence of assessee, unaccounted cash of Rs. 90.57 lakh was seized. Further, during the probe the assessee has voluntarily paid Rs. 1.25 crore towards duty liability. Rajesh has committed a cognisable and non-bailable offence under Section 132 (5) of the CGST Act 2017. He was produced before the Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate, Delhi and remanded to 14 days judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/businessman-held-for-tax-fraud-of-rs-22-cr/article33449551.ece
30 December 2020||New Delhi,||AAP demands removal of Bidhuri||The AAP on Tuesday demanded the BJP to remove MP Ramesh Bidhuri from the party. The party also said that BJP supporters are continuously attacking the AAP Ministers, its functionaries and supporters. “Son and nephew of BJP MP Ramesh Bidhuri are running massive extortions in the area but the police are working on the behest of the BJP and not taking any actions. The AAP demands immediate removal of Ramesh Bidhuri from the BJP. If the BJP does not take any action against Bidhuri, then the people of Delhi will clearly understand that the BJP has become Bharatiya Gunda Party,” said AAP leader Atishi at a press conference.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/aap-demands-removal-of-bidhuri/article33449558.ece
30 December 2020||New Delhi,||Jatin- brief 1||Delhi Cabinet Minister Gopal Rai’s allocated portfolios have been re-allocated to Deputy CM Manish Sisodia for the next few days, the government said in a statement. Mr. Rai has gone to Mumbai for treatment of his spinal injury. In his absence, CM has decided to transfer all the departments that were allocated to him to Mr. Sisodia.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/jatin-brief-1/article33449557.ece
