01-09-2021||West Bengal||Post-poll violence: Bengal moves SC against high court CBI probe order||The West Bengal government Wednesday moved the Supreme Court challenging the Calcutta High Court order directing the court-monitored CBI investigation into all heinous cases like rape and murder during the post poll violence in the state after accepting the recommendations of an NHRC panel. The state government in its special leave petition alleged that it did not expect fair and just investigation by the central agency which is busy foisting cases against the functionaries of ruling Trinamool Congress Party. Earlier, lawyer Anindya Sundar Das, one of the PIL petitioners on whose plea the High Court August 19 verdict had come, had filed a caveat in the apex court urging that no order be passed without hearing him if the state or other litigant move appeals. A five-judge bench of the High Court, headed by Acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal, had ordered a CBI investigation in all alleged cases of heinous crimes in West Bengal after the assembly poll results this year in which the ruling TMC came back to power. As regards other criminal cases related to post-poll violence, the high court had directed that they be investigated by a Special Investigation Team under the monitoring of the court. The high court bench, which also comprised justices I P Mukerji, Harish Tandon, Soumen Sen and Subrata Talukdar, had observed that there were "definite and proved" allegations that complaints of the victims of violence in the aftermath of the West Bengal assembly polls were not even registered. Ordering setting up of an SIT to probe all other cases, it had said that it will include Suman Bala Sahoo, Soumen Mitra and Ranveer Kumar, all IPS officers of the West Bengal cadre. "All the cases where, as per the report of the Committee, the allegations are about murder of a person and crime against women regarding rape/attempt to rape, shall be referred to CBI for investigation, it had said. The high court has also directed the NHRC committee, constituted by its chairman on a direction by the five-judge bench, and any other commission or authority and the state to immediately hand over the records of the cases to the CBI to carry forward the probe. The bench had said it will monitor the investigations by both the CBI and the SIT and asked the two agencies to submit status reports to the court within six weeks. It had said that the working of the SIT will be overseen by a retired Judge of the Supreme Court for which a separate order will be passed after obtaining his/her consent. In its ruling, the bench had said heinous crimes such as murder and rape "deserve to be investigated by an independent agency which in the circumstances can only be Central Bureau of Investigation." The bench had said the State failed to register FIRs even in some cases of alleged murder. "This shows a pre-determined mind to take the investigation into a particular direction." "Under such circumstances investigation by independent agency will inspire confidence to all concerned," it had noted. It had said allegations that the police had not registered a number of cases initially and that some were registered only after the court had intervened or the committee was constituted were found to be true. It had observed that the facts in relation to the allegations made in the PILs are "even more glaring" as the incidents are not isolated to one place in the state. The NHRC committee had on July 13 submitted its final report to the court. An interim report of the NHRC committee had mentioned that Atif Rasheed, a member of the committee, was obstructed from discharging his duty and he and his team members were attacked by some undesirable elements on June 29 in Jadavpur area on the southern fringe of the city, the court noted. The PILs had alleged that people were subjected to assault, made to flee homes and properties were destroyed during the violence in the wake of the assembly elections and sought impartial probe into the incidents.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-112
01-09-2021||West Bengal||Special court summons 2 Bengal ministers, 3 others in Narada case||A special court on Wednesday ordered the issuance of summonses to Bengal ministers Subrata Mukherjee and Firhad Hakim besides three others after taking cognizance of a complaint by the Enforcement Directorate under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act in the Narada sting tapes case. The special CBI judge ordered the appearance of the accused on November 16. Apart from the two ministers and Trinamool Congress MLA Madan Mitra, cognizance was also taken against former Kolkata mayor Sovan Chatterjee and suspended IPS officer SMH Mirza. The court directed that the summonses to Mukherjee, Hakim and Mitra be served through the office of the West Bengal assembly speaker since the three are MLAs. Summonses to the other two are to be served directly at their addresses, the court directed. The Narada sting operation was conducted by Narada news founder Mathew Samuel for over two years in West Bengal. Samuel formed a fictitious company and approached several TMC ministers, MPs and leaders for favours. Many of them were shown accepting money in TV footages. The CBI had arrested Firhad Hakim, Subrata Mukherjee, Madan Mitra and Sovan Chatterjee in the Narada bribery case in May this year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-112
01-09-2021||West Bengal||Banks to operate full time in Bengal from Thursday, says Mamata||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday said banks in the state would start functioning full time from Thursday. Banking hours were revised several times in the wake of rising Covid-19 cases in Bengal during the course of the second wave. “Banks need to operate full time now. Many new accounts are being opened due to the Lakshmir Bhandar' scheme. Therefore, we have decided to allow banks to operate as per the usual schedule,” Mamata said. The usual banking hours are 10 am to 4 pm. The chief minister said that around 1.5 crore women have applied for the scheme already, adding that withing three and a half months, she has fulfilled 90 per cent of her election promises. Around 1.6 crore people are expected to be a part of the Bengal government scheme, which was a part of the Trinamul Congress' election manifesto, aimed at providing financial assistance to women heads of families in the age group of 25-60 years. Under the initiative, the state government will provide Rs 1,000 per month to women heads of Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe families, and Rs 500 to those belonging to the general category. The chief minister also laid the foundation stone of Dhunseri Group's poly films plant in Paschim Bardhaman district, which is expected to provide employment opportunities for over 1,500 people. The Rs 1,250-crore flexible packaging factory will be spread across 38 acres at Panagarh Industrial Park. In the first phase, the plant will manufacture polyester films with a production capacity of 45,000 tonnes per annum at an investment of over Rs 400 crore, company officials said. It is expected to commence commercial operations by March 2023. The first unit will be a downstream facility of Dhunseri's existing Haldia plant where it makes PET (polyethylene terephthalate) resins, Group Chairman C K Dhanuka said. He said the plant will provide direct employment to around 500 people and provide indirect employment opportunities for nearly 1,000 people. The company aims at producing 1,60,000 TPA by 2026-27, with an expected turnover of Rs 1,500 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-112
01-09-2021||West Bengal||Rujira Banerjee cites Covid situation, urges ED officials to question her at Calcutta||Senior TMC leader Abhishek Banerjee's wife Rujira on Wednesday expressed her inability to appear before the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in New Delhi in connection with the coal pilferage scam citing the prevailing Covid situation, and requested the agency sleuths to visit her Calcutta residence instead. The ED had summoned Abhishek Banerjee, the TMC general secretary and Diamond Harbour MP, and his wife for questioning in a money laundering case linked to an alleged coal scam in Bengal. Rujira Banerjee was asked to the appear before the ED on September 1, and the TMC leader, who is the nephew of Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, on September 3. "This refers to summons dated August 18, 2021 asking me to appear in person in New Delhi on September 1. I am a mother of two infants, and travelling to New Delhi physically alone in the midst of the pandemic will put me and my children at grave risk. "It would be convenient to me if you consider asking me to appear in Kolkata at my residence since your organisation has its office in Kolkata and I reside in Kolkata too," she said in her letter addressed to Sumat Prakash Jain, Assistant Director of ED. "Besides, as per my understanding, the alleged cause of action of the subject matter of your inquiry too arises out of West Bengal. You may communicate your decision. I assure you every cooperation from my side," she said. A CBI team had questioned Rujira Banerjee at her residence in February in connection with the coal pilferage case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-112
01-09-2021||West Bengal||20 people hurt in stampede at Covid vaccination camp in Jalpaiguri ||Around 20 persons, mostly women, got injured in a stampede at a Covid-19 vaccination camp underway at a high school in Banarhat block of Jalpaiguri district on Tuesday. Among the injured, four women who are serious, have been shifted to the district hospital here. The district magistrate Moumita Godara Basu has ordered an inquiry and police are probing the incident. Sources said on Tuesday morning, hundreds had come to Duramari Chandrakanta High School for vaccination as announced by the block administration earlier. However, owing to some “communication gap", school authorities had kept the main gate closed. When the gate opened suddenly, residents rushed, leading to the stampede, said a source. Around 20 people were injured. Some locals rushed for help and took the injured for treatment to a primary health centre. Some were taken to the state general hospital in Birpara and later, four of them, all women, were shifted to the district hospital here. Moumita Godara Basu, the district magistrate of Jalpaiguri, said the BDO of Banarhat has been asked to visit the spot and file a report on Wednesday. “All arrangements were made and even then such an incident happened. We are conducting a detailed inquiry,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-112
01-09-2021||West Bengal||Delhi positive on funds for Ghatal master plan: Bengal team||A nine-member team comprising Bengal ministers, and Trinamul MPs and MLAs on Tuesday sad they had elicited a positive response from Union Jal Shakti minister Gajendra Singh Sekhawat and NITI Aayog vice-chairman Rajiv Kumar who they met to ask for funds for Ghatal master plan and four other schemes, including restoration of the cyclone-hit Sunderbans and Digha. “The meeting was positive as both the Union minister and NITI Aayog assured that they would provide funds for the Ghatal master plan. They also asked us to submit a detailed project report on the Sunderbans and Digha masterplans, both brainchild of chief minister Mamata Banerjee. We also asked the Centre to fix a compensation package for the people who lost their houses to Ganga erosion,” said Bengal minister Manas Ranjan Bhuniya, a member of the team, from New Delhi. Bhuniya apart, state irrigation minister Saumen Mahapatra, MP Sukhendu Sekhar Roy, MP Dipak Adhikari (Dev), ministers of state Humayun Kabir and Srikanta Mahato were among those who attended the meeting with Shekhawat and NITI Aayog officials. The visit took place following Mamata’s statement earlier this month that she would send a team to Delhi to push the Centre to release funds for Ghatal master plan and other schemes. Mamata had said she had written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi several times seeking funds for the Ghatal master plan to no avail. The Ghatal master plan is a cluster of projects that includes the dredging and widening of riverbeds, strengthening of embankments, and widening of the confluences of at least 10 large rivers, including the Kansabati, Rupnarayan and Shilabati in addition to around 40 channels and sub-channels that cross the twin Midnapores. In 2012, the state government sent to Delhi a detailed project report of the plan, estimated at Rs 1,200 crore, and received administrative and financial approvals from the Narendra Modi government in 2015. The Centre had agreed to pitch in 75 per cent of the project cost but later reduced it to 50 per cent. No money was sent. The state government dredged a large part of the Durbachati, Khiraibaksi and New Koshi rivers using its own funds. “We are very hopeful that the Centre will now give the money for the project... let us see what happens,” said Mahapatra, the state irrigation minister. Bhuniya said apart from Ghatal the team also raised the issue of rehabilitation of people affected by Ganga erosion. “There is a government policy to support people affected by cyclones, floods or other disasters. However, there is no policy for those who are affected by Ganga erosion mainly in districts like Malda and Murshidabad in Bengal. I have asked the government to bring in a specific policy (for such calamities),” said Bhuniya.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-112
01-09-2021||West Bengal||Swollen Mahananda river floods twin municipalities in Malda ||The swollen Mahananda river flooded a number of wards in the twin municipalities of Englishbazar and Old Malda in Malda. The river that skirts these civic areas was flowing a little below the danger level on Tuesday, said state irrigation department sources. “In the past 24 hours, there has been an alarming rise of 17cm in the water-level of Mahananda. The river is now flowing at 20.63m, 37cm below danger level,” said an official. In Englishbazar, at least five wards have been flooded by the river that spilled over its right bank. Sumala Agarwala, chairperson of the board of administrators of the civic body, took stock of the situation on a boat. “Nearly 2,000 families have been shifted to safer places. We are keeping tabs,” she said. The situation is equally worrying in Old Malda municipal area on the left bank of the river. Bashistya Trivedi, chairperson of the board of administrators, said water from the Mahananda entered in four wards. “We are in touch with the civil administration so that relief can be provided to the affected people,” Trivedi said. In Old Malda civic area, around 500 families were affected, sources said, In Nagrakata of Jalpaiguri district, around 200 residents from Manmohandhura went to the office of the BDO to demonstrate for a temporary bridge to restore road link washed away by floods. They also blocked the road that connects the office with NH31C. The demonstrators said that a few days back, a culvert over local stream Sukhani had been swept away, leaving around 30,000 people cut off from the block headquarters. “We had to trudge through agricultural fields to reach the national highway and head for the block office and neighbouring areas. The block administration should immediately build a temporary bridge so that road connectivity can be restored,” said a demonstrator. The blockade started at around 11am and halted movement of vehicles through Nagrakata. Later, representatives of the local panchayat samiti and the block administration spoke with them and assured necessary help. Finally, the blockade was withdrawn at around 2pm. “We have prepared the estimate of a culvert. It has been sent to the district administration for approval,” said an official at the block office.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-112
01-09-2021||West Bengal||Hill politics abuzz with meetings||Darjeeling resembles a place going for polls immediately when in reality no elections have been scheduled yet. Hectic political activities are on in full swing as the hills are churning with new political alignments. Major political entities in the hills such as Gorkha Janmukti Morcha factions headed by Anit Thapa, Binay Tamang and Bimal Gurung, and the Gorkha National Liberation supporters of Ajoy Edwards, who announced his decision to quit the party on Sunday evening, are holding meetings. On Tuesday, Prabhaskar Blone, spokesperson of the GNLF Darjeeling branch committee, and Bimal Jhawar, adviser to the GNLF Darjeeling branch committee president Edwards, along with other GNLF leader like Udip Moktan, GNLF town president Robert Chhetri, general secretary Gopal Pariyar and others left the GNLF to support Edwards. “I have decided to disassociate myself from the GNLF following developments centring around Edwards. I consider Subash Ghisingh my leader but I can still follow his principles and ideals without staying within the GNLF,” said Blone. Ghisingh’s son Mann now heads the GNLF. Edwards has accused Mann of sidelining him. Meetings are a regular affair for the GNLF, too. On Sunday, a meeting of youths was held by the GNLF in Darjeeling that MLA Neeraj Zimba addressed. Tamang, who said he would start his “third chapter” in politics after resigning in July from the Morcha that he formed in 2017, has been holding a series of meetings. “From demanding an explanation on the donation collected as part of the GTA relief fund during the pandemic, to accusing the GTA officials of trying to help a certain political leader (read Anit Thapa) to levelling corruption charges in the GTA, Tamang is going hammer and tongs in these meetings,” said an observer. Thapa plans to launch his new party on September 9. Gurung is also holding meetings almost every day. “Just a few days ago he started functioning from his party office in Singmari.Almost daily he meets supporters, reorganises committees and inducting new people,” said a source. Edwards is on his way from Ladakh by road and is expected to reach Darjeeling by September 5. His supporters plan to give him a rousing reception. No election has been announced in the hills, though elections to the GTA, Darjeeling Municipality and panchayats are due.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-112
01-09-2021||West Bengal||Assault slur on Trinamul Congress pradhan Zulfikar Ali||The chief of a Trinamul-run panchayat in Kaliachak-I block of Malda allegedly hit an executive assistant in the panchayat with a revolver's butt on Tuesday. Accused pradhan of Jalalpur, Zulfikar Ali, has denied the charges. Injured employee Mobarak Hossain is being treated a health centre at Silampur in Kaliachak. Sources said some panchayat members, including some from Trinamul, had planned to table a no-confidence motion against Ali, alleging around Rs 1 crore, allotted for carrying out development projects, was lying idle for months. Allegedly, executive assistant Hossain had accepted the letter submitted at the panchayat office by some members on the proposed no-confidence motion against Ali. This angered Ali and he allegedly assaulted Hossain with the butt of a firearm. BDO Selim Habib Sardar has initiated an inquiry into the incident. The district Trinamul leadership has instructed block leaders to submit a report on the incident as well, sources said. Ali called the charge a conspiracy against him and said hundreds of people were present at the panchayat office where a vaccination camp was on. "I have not assaulted anyone,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-113
01-09-2021||West Bengal||BJP loses one more MLA to Trinamul Congress||One more BJP MLA returned to the Trinamul Congress on Tuesday with the defection of Biswajit Das, who represents the Bagda Assembly segment in North 24-Parganas. On Monday, Bishnupur MLA Tanmoy Ghosh had rejoined Trinamul. Both Das and Ghosh had been with Trinamul and joined the BJP before the Assembly polls. “Mamata Banerjee and Abhishek Banerjee are leading the party impressively.... Because of some misunderstanding, a few things took place in between. But now, I am back at home,” Das said on Tuesday. There are murmurs that at least seven more BJP MLAs, including three from north Bengal, are likely to switch their allegiance soon. Asked if the party would take action against the defectors, state BJP chief Dilip Ghosh said: “These people didn’t hold any post in our party.…What action can we take against people who have left us...” Suvendu Adhikari, leader of the Opposition, sent letters to Ghosh and Das giving them a week’s time to clear their stand on political affiliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-113
01-09-2021||West Bengal||No SIT by Bengal government yet: Calcutta High Court ||Calcutta High Court Acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal on Tuesday said the court was aware that the state government was yet to form the special investigation team (SIT) to probe alleged incidents of post-poll violence, except rape and murder. The acting Chief Justice also added that action would be taken if the order to the state government to constitute an SIT, which had been issued by the a five-member bench of the high court on August 19, was not implemented properly. He made this remark while rejecting a plea by the counsel of an alleged post-poll victim, who sought to move a petition demanding action against the state government for not forming the SIT despite the court order. On August 19, the HC had ordered a CBI probe into cases of murder and rape that allegedly took place after Assembly poll results were announced on May 2. The bench headed by the Acting Chief Justice had also ordered an SIT comprising IPS officers including DG (telecommunications) Suman Bala Sahoo, Calcutta police commissioner Soumen Mitra and ADG (administration I) Ranveer Kumar, to probe other alleged offences. The August 19 order was passed after the court accepted a report filed by a committee set up by the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC). The order clarified that the court would monitor the progress of probes by the CBI and the SIT. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee had vehemently denied the occurrence of post-poll violence in the state and accused the NHRC of doing the bidding of the ruling BJP at the Centre. On Tuesday, counsels appearing for the petitioners informed the court that after the August 19 order the CBI had started its probe but the state government was yet to constitute the SIT. “The state (government) is yet to constitute the three-member special investigating team to probe other incidents of clash and torture during the period,” advocate Rabishankar Chattopadhyay, the counsel appearing for a petitioner, Kashinath Biswas, told the court. A CBI officer on Tuesday requested the high court’s registrar general to take necessary steps so that investigators could access post-mortem and DNA test reports of Abhijit Sarkar, who was allegedly murdered at Beliaghata in Calcutta after poll results were announced. The registrar general asked the officer for a formal application, which the CBI immediately supplied.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-113
01-09-2021||West Bengal||Manoj Malaviya temporary DGP as Delhi delays list||Manoj Malaviya, a 1986-batch IPS officer, was given the charge of director general of police (DGP) on a temporary basis after Virendra, the incumbent, retired on Tuesday. Sources said Malaviya, who is the senior most IPS officer in Bengal, had to be given the charge temporarily as the UPSC (Union Public Service Commission) failed to send a list of three IPS officers from whom the state was to choose the DGP. “The Bengal government had sent a list of 10-odd officers to the UPSC for its consideration for the post of DGP. But it was learnt that the UPSC was yet to hold a meeting in this regard and send back the list of three names.… In such a situation, Malaviya was given the charge on a temporary basis,” said a senior government official. According to a Supreme Court ruling, all states need to send the names of eligible officers for the post of DGP to the UPSC and then the central body forwards three names to the states. The state is allowed to choose any one officer out of the three for the post. The officer, who would be selected for the post, would have to be appointed for a period of two years even if that person’s retirement is due within the period. “We followed the Supreme Court ruling and sent names of eligible officers…. But the UPSC is yet to send three names to Nabanna,” said a source. According to sources, the state expects that the name of Malaviya would figure in the list of the UPSC given that he is the senior most IPS officer and has a good service record. “It is likely that the name of Malaviya would be on the list of the UPSC and the government will appoint him for two years after the UPSC list reaches Nabanna,” said a source. Some states were recently forced to appoint DGPs on temporary basis for a few days as the UPSC hadn’t sent the list on time, the sources said. Malaviya , who is currently DG (organisation), would continue to work in the post and hold the charge of DGP additionally.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-113
01-09-2021||West Bengal||Covid-19: Bengal reports 546 new infections, 640 recoveries, 13 deaths||Bengal on Tuesday recorded 72 consecutive days of a fall in its total number of Covid-19 active cases, with 546 new infections, 640 recoveries and 13 deaths. With this, Bengal has 8,815 active cases now, having fallen by 107 on Tuesday. Bengal now has 2.36 per cent of the national total of active cases, and occupies the seventh spot among states with the most active cases. Calcutta logged 92 new infections and three deaths. Tuesday was the third consecutive day again, of not one of the 23 Bengal districts reporting a three-digit figure of new infections. Eight districts reported a single-digit figure. The state’s recovery rate is 98.24 per cent now, its highest ever this pandemic, still fairly ahead of the national rate of 97.48. The daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.65 per cent on Tuesday. Seventeen Bengal districts reported zero deaths on Tuesday. Calcutta reported three. The state’s mortality rate is 1.19 per cent, while that of the nation is 1.34. The state currently has over 15.48 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was reported in March last year. The total includes more than 15.21 lakh recoveries and 18,447 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-113
01-09-2021||West Bengal||Amit Shah likely to visit north Bengal in September||Union home minister Amit Shah is likely to visit north Bengal in September with the trip being planned in the backdrop of a rapid realignment of politics in the Darjeeling hills and some BJP leaders’ demand for north Bengal’s statehood. Shah’s visit will be the first to Bengal after the Assembly polls which the Trinamul Congress won with a thumping majority despite the BJP’s high decibel campaign. A source said Shah would be coming to north Bengal — no one wanted to confirm the itinerary on record as the final word is still awaited from Delhi — with the primary objective of taking stock of the political situation in the region. The BJP bagged 30 out of 54 Assembly seats in the region. “In the hills, a number of regional parties and even some apolitical organisations like the National Gorkhaland Committee have renewed their demand for the permanent political solution (PPS). The situation in the hills is fluid and he is likely to go there,” said a source. Darjeeling BJP MP Raju Bista had said recently that the Centre wanted to hold a meeting with the state government and hill stakeholders next month on the PPS. The other burning issue in the region is the sudden demand by a section of BJP leaders led by Alipurduar MP and Union minister of state John Barla that north Bengal be turned into a state or a Union territory. Barla has been backed by Cooch Behar BJP MP Nisith Pramanik, who is also a Union minister of state. Although BJP state president Dilip Ghosh and other leaders had initially distanced themselves from the demand, many of them later began rallying around Barla’s call. “As the Union home minister, Shah is aware of the fast-paced changes taking place in the region.... That’s why his trip has been planned,” said the source. Mamata Banerjee is also slated to visit north Bengal for five days next month, which would be her first trip after assuming the chief minister’s office for the third time. Sources in the Trinamul Congress said the chief minister, who retained the north Bengal development portfolio with herself, had lined up the trip as she was aware that the BJP was likely to make the statehood demand a political issue in the coming days. “Shah and Mamata visiting the region in the same month means that the nucleus of political battle is likely to shift to north Bengal for some time,” said an observer. The fact that the state unit of the BJP is trying immaculate planning for Shah’s visit became clear when a sudden meeting of all party MPs and MLAs of north Bengal was convened in Siliguri on Wednesday. “For the first time after the polls, such a meeting has been convened by the party. A delegation of state BJP leaders will be present to discuss issues in the region,” said a BJP MLA in Alipurduar district. At the meeting, the state leaders are likely to take note of the legislators’ opinions on issues like the demand for the statehood, said a source. “The BJP’s state unit or the central leadership haven’t said anything on the issue.… So, there is a need to assess the mood of the people by talking to MLAs and MPs,” said a source. Besides, the lawmakers will also discuss strategies for ensuing polls in the region. “Keeping in mind the ensuing civic polls and also the three-tier polls of Siliguri Mahakuma Parishad, certain instructions would also be passed to the MLAs and MPs,” the MLA added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-113
01-09-2021||West Bengal||Visva-Bharati executive council to close university sine die||The Visva-Bharati executive council, headed by vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty, in an online emergency meeting on Tuesday evening reportedly decided to close the university sine die (with no date set for resumption) in view of the ongoing protests by students against the rustication of its three student leaders. A formal notification from the varsity to this effect is awaited. “The VC mooted the proposal to close the varsity sine die and members of executive council unanimously agreed with the decision. The decision has been taken but formal notification is being awaited. It will come into effect from tomorrow (Wednesday),” said an executive council member who took part in the online meeting but did not want to be named. “The draft of the notification is under process and it would take some time to issue the official notice,” said a senior varsity officer. Once the decision is officially declared, it would be the first time that Visva-Bharati, set up by Rabindranath Tagore in 1921, would be closed sine die. The order would mean closure of all academic and administrative activities, including those underway online because of the pandemic. Sources said the process to disburse salaries for August, scheduled to be done on Tuesday evening, was also stopped. This paper sent a text to the varsity’s officiating PRO Anirban Sircar but did not receive a reply. Many varsity teachers and students saw in the decision the VC’s ploy to thwart the students’ movement demanding revocation of the rustication of Somnath Sow, Falguni Pan and Rupa Chakraborty, who were seen as dissenters against the VC’s “whimsical” decisions and alleged campus saffronisation bid. While Sow and Chakraborty are with the Students’ Federation of India (SFI), Pan is a leader of the Left-wing Students’ Unity for New Society in Visva-Bharati. “The university had never been closed sine die. It shows that the VC and his administration are incapable of handling a students’ movement,” said Sabuj Kali Sen, a former officiating VC of the varsity. Earlier in the day, a protesting student filed a complaint with Bolpur police that the VC directed two varsity gates be shut to stop entry of officials associated with the salary disbursement. The student stated that authorities had locked gates in a ploy to blame the students’ movement. Rajib Ray, president of Federation of Central Universities Teachers’ Association (FEDCUTA), said it would be an unprecedented incident to close the university sine die because students were protesting against authorities. “The authorities should sit with the students and resolve the impasse,” Ray said. Sources said gherao of the VC was not new in the history of universities in India and it had happened in Visva-Bharati in the past too, and that did not warrant closing the varsity sine die. “Many universities had to be closed sine die but for very grave reasons. Academic activities in the university are hit in the pandemic and closure of varsity will have no effect at all. The VC wanted to stop the disbursement of salary to employees. Admission and publication of results have already stopped,” said a senior Visva-Bharati official. The students, however, said they would continue their movement even if the VC closes the varsity sine die. “We have heard about the decision and it is yet another pressure on us as employees won’t get paid and the admission process had been stopped. If the VC thinks that such a decision would help him to curb our movement, he is mistaken. We will request all the employees to join hands with us against the VC’s move to stop the disbursement of salaries,” said Sow. SFI state secretary Srijan Bhattacharya said it was an attempt to thwart the movement that demanded revocation of the rustication orders. “The VC intentionally invited such situations by rusticating the students. The students never stopped any activities of varsity that could force him to close the varsity sine die. If the rustication was withdrawn there was no need by the VC to stage such a drama,” said Bhattacharya. Sources said, the VC, whose residence has been gheraoed by students from August 27 night, held emergency meetings on Tuesday evening. The first was held with departmental heads, principals and senior varsity officials and second the executive council meeting. “In both meetings the VC raised the issue to close the varsity sine die and finally the decision was endorsed by the executive council. Under the decision, the closure of the varsity would continue till the ‘normalcy’ returns to the campus,” said a senior varsity official. Sources said the decision was taken after the SFI took out a large procession on Tuesday in support of the protesting students. The rally was headed by president of Jawaharlal Nehru University students’ union president Aishe Ghosh and SFI’s state secretary Srijan Bhattacharya. Many people from Santiniketan, including residents and traders, supported the movement, along with a group of teachers of the varsity, mainly members of Visva-Bharati University Faculty Association. Trinamul has decided to join the protest from September 2. “The VC said in the meeting that the protesting students did not allow newspapers, milk and bread to his residence on Tuesday and the gherao is going on for over four days. He said that he would not open the varsity till normality comes,” said an EC member.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-113
