02-09-2021||West Bengal||Bengal govt appoints 10 IPS officers to assist SIT probe on post-poll violence||Bengal government has appointed ten IPS officers to assist a special investigating team (SIT) formed by the Calcutta High Court to probe cases of post-poll violence in the state, a senior official said on Thursday. The officers have been deployed for north, west and south zones of the state as well as for the Kolkata Police areas, he said. "The services of the IPS officers are hereby spared, in addition to their normal duties, to assist the SIT constituted by the Hon'ble High Court at Calcutta (sic)," an order issued by the state home department stated. A five-judge bench of the Calcutta High Court had on August 19 ordered the constitution of the SIT comprising IPS officers Soumen Mitra, Suman Bala Sahoo and Ranbir Kumar to look into the incidents of post-poll violence.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-110
02-09-2021||West Bengal||Sharad Kumar Yadav: Not visiting school before winning gold||A leap of 1.83m won Patna boy Sharad Kumar Yadav the high jump bronze at the Tokyo Paralympics on Tuesday. But for the champion with a polio-affected left leg, a visit to his old school in Darjeeling, set 7,500 feet above the sea level, is still a mountain too high to climb. Sharad, 30, is willing to visit any place on earth but not his alma mater until he has won gold in a Paralympic Games. St Paul’s School must therefore wait at least three more years — till the Paris Paralympic Games — before it can hope to welcome back a former student whose career it has been following with pride for years and who has now earned national fame. Sharad, back in Delhi from Japan where he participated in the T42 category high jump, told The Telegraph in a short WhatsApp message on Wednesday that a bronze was not good enough to warrant a visit to St Paul’s. “Not good yet. (No) Gold yet,” he wrote. It’s a position the high jumper had articulated as far back as 2016, months before the Rio Paralympics, when St Paul’s invited him as chief guest to its annual sports day. Sharad, who had won the Asian Games gold in 2014 with a record jump, told one of his teachers, Arnold Mukhia, that he would visit St Paul’s only after bagging a Paralympics gold. When a podium finish eluded him at Rio, Sharad stuck to his word. Sharad has not visited his old school, where he had enrolled in 2001 as a Class IV student and studied till Class X, since leaving after his boards in 2008. Struck by polio in the left leg when he was just two years old, Sharad would clear heights at St Paul’s that his able-bodied peers could not. He set the school record in the high jump. While most of the others would try the western roll (with the belly down) or scissors (upright jump) technique, Sharad perfected the Fosbury Flop (with the belly up), followed by all the top high jumpers in the world. “We would never have encouraged the Fosbury Flop as it’s dangerous and there was no provision for mats. They had to land on mud and that could be risky,” Angelo Alva, a teacher at St Paul’s, had earlier told this newspaper. Sharad played football, cricket, basketball and badminton too. “He was the school team goalkeeper and wicketkeeper, and represented the school in athletics,” Alva had said. Before Sharad, St Paul’s had produced two Olympians — Paul Raschid, a boxer who participated in the 1948 London Games, and Peter Hildreth, who competed in the 110-metre hurdles in the 1952, 1956 and 1960 Olympics. From St Paul’s, Sharad went to Modern School in Delhi, graduated from Kirori Mal College and earned his postgraduate degree from JNU. On Wednesday, he said he was willing to visit all these institutions but not St Paul’s without the ultimate prize.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-110
02-09-2021||West Bengal||Mobile vans to boost vaccination in north Bengal||The Siliguri Jalpaiguri Development Authority (SJDA) will soon launch 10 mobile vans to expedite Covid19 vaccination in different parts of north Bengal. Sourav Chakraborty, the SJDA chairman, said: her on Wednesday that Chandrima Bhattacharya, the junior health minister of state, in her recent visit to north Bengal, had instructed the SJDA to take the task of augmenting the vaccination process in the region.  “We have decided to introduce 10 airconditioned mobile vans from the second week of this month which will roam across north Bengal, including the hills, Terai and Dooars. People who are yet to get first or second dose can reach out to these vans and get themselves jabbed.” According to Chakraborty, the vans will be stationed in 10 different towns of north Bengal. Every day, the vehicles, along with trained staff, will move into different areas, especially rural belts, where majority of the people are yet to be vaccinated. “Each vehicle will have a doctor and two nurses on board. All necessary health protocols would be followed during the drive,” said a source. Initially, the vans will move in places like Siliguri, Jalpaiguri, Nagrakata, Malbazar, Maynaguri, Dhupguri, Falakata, Birpara, Banarhat and Alipurduar. “Gradually, the vehicles will also ascend to the hills and move in places like Darjeeling, Kurseong, Kalimpong and Mirik,” the source added. The SJDA officials said the facility will ease vaccination of senior citizens and physically challenged people.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-110
02-09-2021||West Bengal||Three in net with fake notes in Malda||Acting on a tipoff, a team of the Golapganj investigation centre under Kaliachak police station in Malda district on Tuesday nabbed three persons, including two residents of Maharashtra, with fake Indian currency notes (FICN) of around Rs 5 lakh on them. The fake currency was in denominations of Rs 500, police sources said. The team, led by Sukumar Roy, a subinspector of Golapganj investigation centre, conducted the raid at 10pm at Baburbona in Kaliachak and arrested Iftikar Muktar Ahmed Ansari, Mohammad Wasim Khan and Mohammad Asmaul Haque. After the trio's arrest, the police found out that Ansari was from Chunabhatti police station area under Mumbai suburban district while Khan is from Kamothe police station area in Raigarh district of Maharashtra. Haque, on the other hand, is from Uttar Laxmipur under Mothabari police station of Malda district. “During preliminary probe, it was found that the duo from Maharashtra had come to Malda to buy the fake currency notes,” said Alok Rajoria, the Malda superintendent of police. “All three would be interrogated to obtain more information. They are suspected to be associated with a racket that deals in fake currency and has its tentacles spread from Bengal to Maharashtra,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-110
02-09-2021||West Bengal||Malda cops lend a hand at Duare Sarkar camps||Police officers and civic volunteers in Malda went to at least nine Duare Sarkar camps and helped aspiring beneficiaries of the state’s social welfare schemes fill up application forms to mark Police Day on Wednesday. At the camps, police personnel also arranged chairs and tables, set up assistance counters. “We just wanted to help,” said Ashis Das, the inspector–in–charge of Englishbazar police station, who sat under the scorching sun to fill up 150 application forms at a camp in Kotwali on the outskirts of Malda town. The police initiative earned smiles from aspiring beneficiaries, especially women who applied for Lakshmir Bhandar, a monthly cash aid scheme. “They are educated people and made no mistake in filling up the forms. This apart, their very presence at the camp ensured discipline. Everybody stood properly in the queue, waiting for her turn,” said Rakhi Choudhury, a domestic help. The initiative, police sources said, was also taken to prevent unscrupulous people from charging money in exchange for filling up the forms at the camps. In north Bengal, a number of such cases and even arrests have been reported last week. “We have heard about such people who charge money. But today (Wednesday), it was altogether a different experience. We did not face any inconvenience in submitting our applications because the police officers were there to help us,” Kiran Mondal, a homemaker, said. Police also distributed masks and clothes among the poor and held friendly volleyball matches in association with local clubs. “Such initiatives help strengthen the relationship between the police and people,” said Malda SP Alok Rajoria. “We will take up similar activities in future too.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-110
02-09-2021||West Bengal||West Bengal govt plea in SC to recall 2006 DGP verdict||Bengal on Wednesday urged the Supreme Court to recall its 2006 judgment which had ordered the appointment of director general of police in states through UPSC empanelment. The Mamata Banerjee government’s contention is that such a role for a central agency would erode the country’s federal structure under which states alone are entitled to deal with the law enforcement machinery. The Bengal government had on Tuesday appointed Manoj Malaviya as the DGP on a temporary basis. Sources said Malaviya had to be given the charge temporarily as the UPSC failed to send a list of three IPS officers from whom the state was to choose the DGP. The state government has moved the application in the case of Amicus Curiae Vs UoI, in which senior advocate Harish Salve had approached the court in 2018 alleging violations of the judgment by a large number of states. Salve had been appointed the amicus curiae in the case by the Supreme Court. According to the Bengal government, the impugned order passed in 2006 and subsequently reiterated in 2018 with certain modifications ought to be recalled as the Constitution neither vest the UPSC with the task of appointing the DGP nor does it have the expertise to empanel such officers for the crucial posts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-111
02-09-2021||West Bengal||Training for staff at blood banks across north Bengal||The state health department has decided to open a zonal level training centre for the staff serving in the blood banks across north Bengal at the Regional Blood Transfusion Centre (RBTC) at the North Bengal Medical College and Hospital. Mridumay Das, the RBTC director, said: “A zonal training centre for blood banks will be opened at the RBTC. We have the infrastructure ready and once it is functional, technicians, medical officers, and the nursing staff who are associated with government-run blood banks in north Bengal, can be trained here. Altogether, there are 19 state-run blood banks in the region. Now, the staff at these centres need to go to Calcutta for annual training sessions. Sources said the RBTC had sent a proposal to State Blood Transfusion Council for opening such a facility earlier. The decision was made but the process of setting up the training centre got delayed due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Das also mentioned that even a few years back, there was only one medical college, NBMCH, in north Bengal. “But now that there are five medical colleges in the region along with a number of hospitals, such a training centre was necessary. We hope it will start functioning soon,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-111
02-09-2021||West Bengal||New Dakshin Dinajpur University camp office opens||A camp office of the new Dakshin Dinajpur University (DDU) announced by the state government was formally opened at a rented building in Chawkbhabani area of Balurghat town, South Dinajpur district, on Wednesday. This is the sixth university to come up in north Bengal region. Its classes — postgraduate courses in English, political science and mathematics — are set to start from this October. The state government has already appointed Sanchari Roy Mukherjee, a senior faculty member of North Bengal University, as the vice-chancellor, and Panjar Kundu, the principal of Balurghat College, as the additional registrar in charge of the new varsity. On Wednesday, the camp office was opened by South Dinajpur district magistrate Ayesha Rani A., along with superintendent of police Rahul Dey in presence of the vice-chancellor and other varsity  officials. “The camp office of the varsity has been opened today (Wednesday). Under the earlier announcement, we intend to start classes for postgraduate courses in English, political science and mathematics from October this year. The official website of the varsity has also been opened and students intending to pursue postgraduate courses in these subjects can apply till September 15,” the vice-chancellor said. In South Dinajpur, a separate varsity set up in the district had been a longstanding demand of residents. “This camp office will function on a temporary basis. For the permanent building of DDU, the administration has already identified land at Mahinagar area of Balurghat town. Till the building comes up, classes of the new university would be held at Balurghat College,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-111
02-09-2021||West Bengal||Narada: ED files chargesheet on Bengal ministers||The Enforcement Directorate on Wednesday filed a chargesheet against Bengal ministers Firhad Hakim and Subrata Mukherjee, former Calcutta mayor Sovan Chatterjee, Trinamul MLA Madan Mitra and suspended IPS officer S.M.H. Mirza in the Narada sting case. In the chargesheet submitted to a special court, the ED has said “further investigation” is required in respect of Mukul Roy, Suvendu Adhikari, Saugata Roy, Kakoli Ghosh Dastidar, Prasun Banerjee, Iqbal Ahmed, Aparupa Poddar and “some unknown persons”. The court ordered issuance of summons to the five accused and their appearance on November 16. The court has directed that the summons to Mukherjee, Hakim and Mitra be served through the office of the Assembly speaker as the trio are legislators. Summons to the other two would be served directly at their addresses, the court said. “Four leaders and an IPS officer have been charged under Section 3 of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA),” said Abhijit Bhadra, a lawyer who appeared on behalf of the central investigating agency. “We sought permission for further questioning of these four leaders as a part of the probe and the court has granted it.” ED officials said Wednesday’s chargesheet followed a criminal case drawn up by the CBI in the Narada sting case. Trinamul Congress leader Abhisek Banerjee’s wife Rujira has sent a letter to the ED, expressing her inability to turn up in New Delhi for questioning in connection with a money laundering case. The ED had asked Rujira and Abhishek to appear for questioning in Delhi on September 1 and 6, respectively. Instead, Rujira requested the agency to question her at her Calcutta residence, ED sources said. In the letter addressed to an assistant director of the ED, Rujira wrote: “This refers to summons dated August 18, 2021 asking me to appear in person in New Delhi on September 1. I am a mother of two infants, and travelling to New Delhi physically alone in the midst of the pandemic will put me and my children at grave risk.” ED officials declined comments.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-111
02-09-2021||West Bengal||Post-poll violence: Bengal moves SC for stay on HC-ordered CBI probe||The Bengal government on Wednesday moved the Supreme Court seeking a stay on a Calcutta High Court verdict that had asked the CBI to probe alleged murders and rapes during violence following counting of Assembly poll votes in Bengal on May 2. The state said the high court order on August 19 had been based on a  report filed by a committee appointed by the National Human Rights Commission. The government said the NHRC committee had members who were linked to the BJP. The high court had also ordered that immediate action be taken by the state to pay compensation to the victims of the violence. The special leave petition by the Mamata Banerjee government is yet to be listed formally for a hearing by the Supreme Court. According to the appeal, the impugned order cannot be sustained as it was contrary to several judgments by the Supreme Court in various cases earlier. Referring to the earlier verdicts of the Supreme Court, the petition said transfer of probes to the CBI could be “in rare or exceptional cases only and not merely because some unsubstantiated allegations have been levelled against the local police”. “The impugned order (High Court) fails to explain as to how the investigations done thus far by the State police were tainted or biased or did not inspire any confidence, which are necessary prerequisite for transfer of cases to the CBI as held in the said decisions,” read the appeal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-111
02-09-2021||West Bengal||Five BJP MLAs in north Bengal skip first party meeting ||Five BJP MLAs from north Bengal skipped the first post-poll party conference of MLAs convened here on Wednesday, fuelling speculations on whether this region’s saffron camp would also see defections similar to two back-to-back ones in south Bengal that have reduced the party’s legislative count to 72. Twenty-four of 29 MLAs from north Bengal took part in the event that mulled on strategic ways to consolidate the party base in the region. MLAs Ashok Lahiri (Balurghat), Satyen Roy (Gangarampur), Manoj Oraon (Kumargram), Joyel Murmu (Habibpur) and Gopal Saha (Maldaha) were absent. “One or two may be ill or have problems. But it is surprising that five didn’t come. We believe senior party leaders will talk to them,” a senior party member said. Manoj Tigga, the BJP MLA of Madarihat and party’s chief whip in the Assembly, put up a brave face. “We can vouch for the fact that none of our MLAs in north Bengal will walk out of the party,” he said. However, the absence of the five also raised questions on whether the demand for statehood or Union territory status for north Bengal, flagged by the party’s Alipurduar MP John Barla, who is also a Union minister now, has created a rift among BJP legislators of the region. While state unit chief Dilip Ghosh appeared to back Barla, many others in the BJP haven’t. “Prominent state leaders like Rahul Sinha and Locket Chatterjee have spoken against it. There is a similar undertone of disgruntlement among some elected leaders of north Bengal too,” said an insider. On Wednesday, Tigga told newspersons the demand was the “personal opinion of those who have said it” and that the “party has not taken any stand on the issue.” A few minutes later, Darjeeling MP Raju Bista, also a national spokesperson of the party, defended the demand. “If people of north Bengal want a separate state under the Constitution, we will stand with them and raise the issue at appropriate quarters, be it the Parliament or in the Assembly,” he said. On Tuesday evening, state unit chief Ghosh had expressed discontent at being kept in the dark about the meeting. Tigga apologised for it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-111
02-09-2021||West Bengal||Four crore Covid jabs given in West Bengal: Mamata Banerjee ||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday placed the responsibility of Covid-19 vaccine shortage on the Centre while asserting that despite constraints, Bengal had been meeting its vaccination targets. On Wednesday, Bengal administered over 4.47 lakh doses from 2,112 vaccination centres, 1,809 of them run by the government, taking the total number of jabs to around 4.16 crore or around 41.6 per cent of the population. Of them, over 1.17 crore are second doses, taking the total of fully vaccinated people to around 11.7 per cent of its population. The corresponding figures for India stand at 37.8 per cent of the population with at least one dose and 11.3 per cent with both doses. “We don’t make promises that we turn our backs on. We make promises that we are serious about, promises we can deliver on. It is important to maintain that transparency, for credibility,” said Mamata at Panagarh, in an apparent jibe at the BJP-led Centre. “The Centre has been procuring vaccines, and the state government is responsible for them being administered. There has been hardly any wastage in Bengal (about 7 per cent)…. We crossed the 4 crore target yesterday, but need around 14 crore doses,” she added. Calcutta leads with over 58 lakh doses, followed by North 24-Parganas with nearly 43 lakh doses and Hooghly with more than 25 lakh doses so far. Bengal on Wednesday recorded 679 new Covid cases, 681 recoveries and 12 deaths. The total of active cases fell by 14 to reach 8,801 now. Calcutta logged 106 new infections and one death. North 24-Parganas reported 116 new cases. These were the only two districts with a three-digit figure of new infections in a day. Eight districts reported a single-digit figure. Fifteen Bengal districts reported zero deaths on Wednesday. North 24-Parganas reported three. Regarding vaccination, nearly 98 lakh doses have been administered to the 60-plus age group, while around 1.39 crore doses have been administered to those between 45 and 60 years and close to 1.8 crore doses to the 18-44 age group. Adverse events following immunisation were reported in 0.009 per cent of the cases in Bengal. “We have the third wave in mind. We are now considering whether children need to be vaccinated. If necessary, the government will initiate a mass immunisation programme (for children), similar to the drive against polio,” she said. Mamata once again assured people of Bengal that her government was in the process of distributing all vaccine doses made available to the state, urging against rush that might lead to chaos. “Whatever is available (vaccine doses) with us, we are distributing it promptly. I request everyone not to rush…. The government will let everyone know when and where vaccines will be given, and there is no reason to overcrowd vaccination centres,” she said, apparently referring to commotion at a vaccination centre in Jalpaiguri on Tuesday, which left several injured. “Please do not heed rumours and contribute to baseless panic.” Currently, the state’s Covid-19 recovery rate is 98.24 per cent, its highest in this pandemic, still fairly ahead of the national rate of 97.45. The state's daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.78 per cent on Wednesday. The state’s mortality rate is 1.19, while that of the nation is 1.34 per cent. The state currently has over 15.49 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was reported in March last year. The total includes more than 15.22 lakh recoveries and 18,459 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-111
02-09-2021||West Bengal||Blow to Visva-Bharati VC, Centre stops varsity closure||The purported decision of Visva-Bharati executive council headed by vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty to close the varsity sine die was kept on hold following a directive from the Union education ministry on Wednesday as the Centre did not consider the situation grave enough for such a move. In an emergency meeting held online on Tuesday evening, the executive council had purportedly decided to shut the university sine die — with no date set for resumption — in view of ongoing protests by students against the rustication of three student leaders. Sources at the varsity said senior officials from New Delhi had called up officiating registrar Ashok Mahato and asked him to keep the work as usual and immediately disburse the salaries and pensions, which had been withheld purportedly at the directive of the VC. “The ministry clearly directed us, verbally, not to close the varsity sine die, immediately. A top official of the education ministry asked the vice-chancellor to keep the decision on hold and not to implement it till a grave situation emerges. Such a decision, following only a students’ movement, would tarnish the image of not only the central varsity but also the education ministry,” said a senior official. A varsity official said the salaries and pensions would be credited to the employees’ accounts soon. He said the directives from Delhi were a setback for Chakrabarty. “However, the ministry did not ask for the revocation of the executive council’s decision. The VC can implement it anytime if it’s green-lit by Delhi,” he added. The ministry, said another official, is also “unhappy” over discontinuing the processes of conducting admissions and publishing results. A petition was moved before Calcutta High Court by Visva-Bharati authorities, seeking judicial intervention in the ongoing stalemate over the agitation by a section of students and teachers, allegedly with the active support of “outsiders”. The petition also demanded action against the agitators by the state. Justice Rajasekhar Mantha fixed the hearing of the case on Thursday. “We were surprised when we found that the notification of closure of the varsity sine die did not come even late on Wednesday although the decision had been taken unanimously at the council. Later, I came to know that the education ministry had ordered that it be put on hold,” said a member of the council. “It is grave injustice to Chakrabarty, for students to gherao him for days…,” he added. The RSS’s student arm ABVP issued a press release on Wednesday afternoon, asking the administration to engage in dialogue with the protesting students so that the admissions and the declaration of results were not hampered. “The demand of the ABVP proves the saffron camp is also against such a decision of Chakrabarty, who whimsically rusticated the students and then tried to close the varsity, to serve his own interests,” said a senior professor of the varsity. A group of the Congress’s leaders and workers, headed by party’s Birbhum district chief Miltan Rashid, agitated in front of Chakrabarty’s residence, demanding his resignation and rescinding of the rustication of the three students. On Wednesday, a police team was deployed in front of Chakrabarty’s residence to avoid untoward incidents. Somnath Sow, a rusticated and protesting student, said: “We did not stop any services to the vice-chancellor so far. We even offered to bring him his essentials. He is trying to stage a drama.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-111
02-09-2021||West Bengal|| Mamata Banerjee outlines her focus on industrialisation||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday outlined her focus on industrialisation after highlighting that her government has done a lot in terms of social welfare, her announcement indicating that she would make job creation in Bengal a priority in her third term in office. “We are already in the number one position in implementing social welfare schemes. Now my focus will be on industry and generating employment. We have already announced a number of big industrial projects at a cost of several hundreds crores and a series of industrial infrastructure in the state,” Mamata said at the Panagarh Industrial Park in West Burdwan. Mamata was in Panagarh to lay the foundation stone of a Rs 1,250-crore polyester film manufacturing factory of the Calcutta-based Dhunseri Group on around 30 acres at the industrial park. This project will also create direct and indirect employment of around 15,000, sources said. Since Mamata’s government came to power for the third consecutive time and she took oath in May this year, the state government has launched Lakshmir Bhandar, a direct cash transfer scheme, for nearly 2 crore women. The state government has also launched an enhanced financial assistance scheme, Krishak Bandhu, for 62 lakh farmers. Apart from these, the state has been running several welfare schemes such as pension for aged SC/ST people and widow pension. “Now, the chief minister has decided to focus on industry, primarily for two reasons. First, she had promised 1.5 crore jobs for the youths in the state, and second, the state needs to generate more revenue to run welfare schemes,” said a senior government official, adding that if industries come up, the state would earn more revenue through GST. The chief minister rolled out a broad outline to make her plan a successful one. “We have set up an empowered group of which I am the chairperson. We have also adopted a single-window formula to help and address the issues of industrialists. We have decided to hold at least one meeting in a month in this regard,” she said. Mamata then pointed out some projects on which she was relying heavily to change the scenario in the state. She first mentioned the Rs 15,000-crore coal mining project of Deocha-Panchami, which according to her will change the industrial landscape of Birbhum, Burdwan, and several districts in the western parts of the state. “There will be no scarcity of electricity in Bengal in the next 100 years once the coal mine project comes up. The cost of electricity will also be cheaper. The required land for the first phase of the project is ready from the government’s land bank,” she said while adding that the rehabilitation package for the next phase is also being prepared. Sources said that the state is banking on the project as it has the potential of creating 1 lakh direct and indirect jobs. Mamata is also banking on the proposed deep sea port in East Midnapore’s Tajpur. “Work for the new sea port at Tajpur will start soon. The work was delayed because of the Centre. Presently we have only two ports in the state,” she said. She added that an industrial corridor named Jungle Mahal Sundari is also coming up between Hooghly’s Dankuni to Raghunathpur in Purulia via Panagarh, Durgapur in West Burdwan and Borjora in Bankura districts. “The industrial corridor will fetch an investment of Rs 72,000 crore and work is on. A dedicated freight corridor is also coming up between Dankuni and Amritsar. I had initiated the freight corridor when I was the railway minister. Lakhs of jobs will be generated from these initiatives,” she said. The chief minister also announced an ethanol production promotion policy of her government to give emphasis on biofuel. “The importance of ethanol as a biofuel is growing as it is cheaper and environment-friendly. The raw material of biofuel is rice which is cheap and easily available in Bengal. This new policy will encourage growing industries as well as help the farmers to increase their income,” she said, adding around 50,000 jobs will be created from this initiative which will bring an investment of around Rs 1,500 crore. “We will set up a data centre industry in the state. Our aim is also to set up a data handling and storage hub here that can cater to the demand of not only the eastern zone but also Bangladesh, Nepal and Bhutan. The state government will help industrialists to set up the hub,” she added. She asked officials to take initiatives to hold the Bengal Global Business Summit this year after a gap of two years to focus on drawing investment in the state. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday expressed pain over the BJP government’s “apathy” towards rising petrol prices and appealed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to intervene. “I would request the Hon’ble Prime Minister to kindly act upon the concerns of our people and withdraw such hikes, immediately,” she added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-111
02-09-2021||West Bengal||Tea wage revision eyes January 2022 deadline||The Mamata Banerjee government has taken up the task to expedite the process of fixing minimum wages for tea workers of Bengal and finalise it by January 2022. On Tuesday, a meeting of the minimum wage advisory committee, formed in 2015, was held in Calcutta in the presence of state labour minister Becharam Manna. “At the meeting, it was decided to form a smaller, six-member committee, comprising two representatives each from trade unions and tea planters, along with two senior officials of the department. The committee will prepare a draft proposal on minimum wage rate in consultation with industry stakeholders,” said Prabir Bhattacharjee, secretary general of the Tea Association of India. Though six years have gone by since the advisory committee was formed, the minimum wage is yet to be fixed. Tea workers and non-managerial employees (staff and sub-staff) have, however, received interim hikes. “But this time, the state appears to be serious. During the meeting, the state labour minister had said the state wants the wage rate to be finalised within the next quarter so that it can be put into effect in January 2022. The smaller committee will ready the draft proposal so that a meeting can be held in the first week of next month,” said a source. This comes at a time the BJP government of Himanta Biswa Sarma in Assam, which produces the most tea in the country, decided to form seven sub-committees for recommendations to develop the tribal population in its tea belt. The committees have been asked to submit recommendations by December so that the state can come up with a package in the next fiscal budget. “Now that the BJP government there is taking this initiative, it seems the Trinamul government here wants to fix the minimum wage earlier,” said an observer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-111
02-09-2021||West Bengal||Ghosh and Suvendu differ on reasons for defection||Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh and Opposition leader Suvendu Adhikari spoke in contradictory tones as they tried to cite reasons at a press meet in Calcutta on Wednesday for the recent defection of two party MLAs to the Trinamul Congress. While Adhikari said MLAs Tanmoy Ghosh and Biswajit Das had not taken part in the BJP’s activities in the past four months, Ghosh alleged that the duo had been coerced into switching sides by the state administration. The differences in the stances taken by Ghosh and Adhikari came out at the news conference, which the two leaders attended along with party spokesperson Shamik Bhattacharya. “How can two leaders contradict themselves, sitting right beside each other at the same news conference?” asked a BJP state-level functionary. “If the defectors had not been keeping in touch with our party for the past four months, the administration didn’t have to do much to make them go back to Trinamul. They were already on their way out,” said the functionary. Adhikari spoke about the distance that Tanmoy, an MLA from Bishnupur, and Biswajit, an MLA from Bagda, had developed with the BJP since May this year. “Even after winning 213 seats, they (Trinamul) need more MLAs.…In the past two days, they have inducted two MLAs who had no connection with the party (BJP),” Adhikari said. After the Nandigram MLA finished his briefing, Ghosh took a contradictory position vis-à-vis Adhikari while explaining the reason for the defections. “Our MLAs are being targeted. Those from backward classes are being threatened by police...Shyamababu has been arrested and other MLAs have been tagged to it,” he said. Ghosh had previously said Tanmoy had been forced to switch over to Trinamul because he had been tagged in the case of monetary misappropriation that led to the arrest of former minister Shyamaprasad Mukherjee. To demonstrate the legislative party’s strength, the BJP presented 10 of its MLAs from Bankura, Bishnupur and Bongaon at the news conference. Joyel Murmu, the MLA from Habibpur Assembly segment of Malda, was also present at the press meet.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-112
02-09-2021||West Bengal||Curbs on banking hours withdrawn in Bengal ||The state government has allowed banks to operate according to their normal working hours even though other restrictions will continue till September 15 to prevent the spread of Covid-19. The relaxations for the banks would come into effect from Thursday. Earlier, the banks were allowed to function till 3pm on working days. The working hours for most banks vary between 9.30am and 5.30pm. Senior government officials said the banks were allowed to work normally as many of the beneficiaries of welfare schemes of the government were facing trouble opening accounts. The Duare Sarkar programme is on and more than one crore footfall has already been recorded at the camps. “Many of the beneficiaries who are applying for the schemes need to open bank accounts. The restricted working hours in the banks were creating trouble for them,” said a senior official. Sources also said the state government was trying to increase vaccination in rural areas to ensure that the novel coronavirus didn’t create havoc even if the third wave of the pandemic hit the state. “Moreover, the chief minister has announced that once 50 per cent of the eligible rural population are vaccinated, suburban local trains would be allowed to operate,” said a source. So far, more than 4 crore doses have been administered in Bengal, while the state requires 14 crore vaccines to cover seven crore eligible people. The Election Commission of India held a video conference with Bengal chief secretary H.K. Dwivedi on Wednesday to take note of the Covid-19 situation in the state amid questions over when bypolls to seven Assembly segments would be held in the state. “The ECI wanted to know about issues like the Covid-19 situation and vaccination progress. But the poll panel did not say when the bypolls could be held,” said a source. The bypolls are significant as Mamata Banerjee has to get elected by November 5 to continue as the chief minister. She had lost the Assembly polls in Nandigram to BJP’s Suvendu Adhikari. The Trinamul Congress had submitted several memoranda to the poll panel for the immediate byelections.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-112
